{"id": "72476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72476", "title": "Abomey", "text": "Abomey\n\nAbomey is a city in the Zou Department of Benin. Abomey is also the former capital of the Kingdom of Dahomey (\"c.\" 1600–1904), which would later become a French colony, then the Republic of Dahomey (1960–1975), and is the modern-day Republic of Benin.\n\nAbomey houses the Royal Palaces of Abomey, a collection of small traditional houses that were inhabited by the Kings of Dahomey from 1600 to 1900, and which were designated a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1985.\n\nThe commune of Abomey covers an area of 142 square kilometres and as of 2012 had a population of 90,195 people.\n\nThe Royal Palaces of Abomey are a group of earthen structures built by the Fon people between the mid-17th and late 19th Centuries. One of the most famous and historically significant traditional sites in West Africa, the palaces form one of the UNESCO World Heritage Sites.\n\nThe town was surrounded by a mud wall with a circumference estimated at , pierced by six gates, and protected by a ditch five feet deep, filled with a dense growth of prickly acacia, the usual defence of West African strongholds. Within the walls were villages separated by fields, several royal palaces, a market-place and a large square containing the barracks. In November 1892, Béhanzin, the last independent reigning king of Dahomey, being defeated by French colonial forces, set fire to Abomey and fled northward. The French colonial administration rebuilt the town and connected it with the coast by a railroad.\n\nWhen UNESCO designated the royal palaces of Abomey as a World Heritage Site in 1985 it stated\n\nFrom 1993, 50 of the 56 bas-reliefs that formerly decorated the walls of King Glèlè (now termed the 'Salle des Bijoux') have been located and replaced on the rebuilt structure. The bas-reliefs carry an iconographic program expressing the history and power of the Fon people.\n\nToday, the city is of less importance, but is still popular with tourists and as a centre for crafts.\n\nAs reported by UNESCO, the Royal Palaces of Abomey suffered from a fire on 21 January 2009 \"which destroyed several buildings.\" The fire was the most recent disaster which has plagued the site, coming after a powerful tornado damaged the site in 1984.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42475692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42475692", "title": "Albert Calmes", "text": "Albert Calmes\n\nAlbert Calmes, born 26 February 1881 in Paris and died 22 September 1967 in Luxembourg city, was a Luxembourgish economist and historian.\n\nHe was one of the first people to return to Luxembourg with a doctorate in economics. Previously he had taught at universities in Germany and Switzerland. He became a director of ARBED and received the title \"Ministre plénipotentiaire honoraire\".\n\nWhile teaching at Frankfurt University he was commissioned by the League of Nations to investigate the financial situation in the recently founded Principality of Albania. His report was published in 1922.\n\nAs a historian, he dealt primarily with the history of Luxembourg in the 19th century.\n\nHe was the father of Christian Calmes.\n\nChristian Calmes later continued this series with four volumes (Vol. 7, Vol. 8, Vol. 10 and Vol. 11). He also wrote a Vol. 12 (1815-1989). Volumes 6 and 9 were never written.\n\n\nRue Albert Calmes in Luxembourg city is named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16365096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16365096", "title": "Alfredo Barrera Vásquez", "text": "Alfredo Barrera Vásquez\n\nAlfredo Barrera Vázquez (1900—December 28, 1980) was a Mexican anthropologist, linguist, academic and Mayanist scholar. He is noted for both his research into the historical Maya civilization of the pre-Columbian era and his contributions promoting literacy in Mayan languages and the culture of contemporary Maya peoples. He has been described as \"...perhaps the greatest Maya scholar to emerge from the actual land of the Maya.\"\n"}
{"id": "157032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157032", "title": "Artistamp", "text": "Artistamp\n\nThe term artistamp (a portmanteau of the words \"artist\" and \"stamp\") or artist's stamp refers to a postage stamp-like art form used to depict or commemorate any subject its creator chooses. Artistamps are a form of Cinderella stamps in that they are not valid for postage, but they differ from forgeries or bogus Illegal stamps in that typically the creator has no intent to defraud postal authorities or stamp collectors.\n\nArtistamp creators often include their work on legitimate mail, alongside valid postage stamps, in order to decorate the envelope with their art. In many countries this practice is legal, provided the artistamp is not passed off as or likely to be mistaken for a genuine postage stamp. When so combined (and sometimes, less strictly speaking, even when not so) the artistamp may be considered part of the mail art genre.\n\nIrony, satire, humor, eroticism and subversion of governmental authority are frequent characteristics of artistamps. Artists may leverage the expectation of official endorsement that necessarily inheres in governmentally-issued postage for the purpose of shocking or subverting viewers' expectations, with such actions typically representing a specific political and artistic motive. Other practitioners are content to depict more homey subjects like kittens and family members. Some artists use the form to create fantasy stamps for their own postal administrations or countries – in many cases thereby developing or complementing an imaginary governmental system.\n\nThe first artist to produce an \"artist’s stamp\" is open to interpretation. It did not take many years after the introduction of postage stamps before UK commercial photographers saw a market in personalised stamp photographs incorporating an individual's portrait within a stamp-like printed border, printed in perforated sheets with gummed backs. Fine artists were certainly commissioned to create poster stamps (advertising posters in collectible stamp form) from the late 1800s, but none appear to have worked with the format outside the commercial or advertising context.\n\nIn 1919, Dadaist Raoul Hausmann affixed a self-portrait postage stamp to a postcard, but given that Dada was determinedly anti-art (at least in theory), calling this an \"artist’s stamp\" seems almost counterintuitive.\n\nGerman artist Karl Schwesig, while a political prisoner during World War II, drew a series of pseudo-stamps on the blank, perforated margins of postage stamp sheets, using coloured inks. Jas Felter asserts that this 1941 series, which illustrated life in a concentration camp, is typically accepted as the first true set of artist's stamps.\n\nRobert Watts, a member of the Fluxus group, became the first artist to create a full sheet of [faux] postage stamps within a fine art context when he produced a perforated block of 15 stamps combining popular and erotic imagery in 1961.\n\nCanadian multimedia artist and philatelist T Michael Bidner, who made his life's work the cataloguing of all then-known artist's stamps, coined the word \"artistamp\" in 1982. It quickly became the term of choice amongst mail artists.\n\nArtist Clifford Harper published a series of designs for anarchist postage stamps in 1988, featuring portraits of Percy Bysshe Shelley, Emma Goldman, Oscar Wilde, Emiliano Zapata and Herbert Read.\n\nDespite the exhibitions, history, number of artists and global sweep of the artistamp movement, the medium had long been ignored by major institutions and derided by the arts establishment: before his death in 1989, Bidner attempted to donate his definitive collection to several major Canadian institutions but was turned down by every one. The collection eventually went to Artpool, an art research centre in Budapest, Hungary who organized World Art Post, the first big scale artistamp exhibition in Central Europe in 1982, and in 1987 the first arstistamp exhibition to be held in a renowned museum. Upon his death, Bidner's friend Rosemary Gahlinger-Beaune, undertook Bidner's vision and began to catalogue, using philatelic standards, artistamps from over 200 artists from 29 countries, documenting more than 10,0000 artistamp images. In 1999, Gahlinger-Beaune and Bianchini released a CD entitled \"The World of Artistamps\", the most comprehensive database of artistamps of the time.\n\nMultimedia artist James Warren \"Jas\" Felter curated an exhibition called \"Artists' Stamps and Stamp Images\" at Simon Fraser Gallery, Simon Fraser University, Canada, in 1974: the first exhibition to acknowledge the stamp as an artistic medium. This collection, which toured Europe and America for the next ten years, led to an explosion in the number of artists using stamps as an artistic format.\n\nPhotographer and multimedia artist Ginny Lloyd started her Gina Lotta Post series in 1979 and by 1982 had produced some of the first computer-generated imagery used in artists stamps. On a visit to Artpool in 1982, she collaborated with György Galántai on artistamp issues. In 1984, Lloyd co-organized an Art in Space event in San Francisco at which a rocket containing artistamps on a microchip was launched. In 1986, the artist received a Visual Studies Workshop artist-in-residence funded in part by the National Endowment for the Arts in the United States. Her project for the residency culminated with \"Gina Lotta Post,\" a series of artistamps bound into a book and includes a set of postcards. A second book \"Make Your Own Stamps Sheet,\" is a Complete and Return project that originated from the same residency, becoming available in 2011.\n\nIn 1989, Felter curated the first of three International Biannual Exhibitions of Artistamps at Davidson Galleries in Seattle.\n\nIn 1994, an exhibition sponsored by the Swiss Posts was held in the PTT-Museum in Berne, resulting in the publication of a book and four sheets of artists' stamps (one of the few printed at the costs of an official postal service!). More than 60 artists participated. The word \"Artistamps\" does not appear in the book, but on one of the stamps, by E.F. Higgins.\n\nIn 1995, Patricia Tavenner curated \"The First California Artistamp Exhibit\" at University of California, Berkeley - San Francisco Extension. The exhibit presented works of about 170 artists from around the world.\n\nIn 1995 Guy Bleus organized the traveling exhibition \"The Artistamp Collection\" in the ‘Provinciaal Museum’ (now Z33) in Hasselt, and in the ‘Poorthuis’ in Genk, Belgium. The documentation was the very first artistamp catalogue on CD-ROM. \n\nThe \"First Moscow International Artistamp Exhibition\" was held in Moscow in December 1998, as part of International Art Fair XX. The event was curated by Natalie Lamanova, Alexander Kholopv and Jas Felter. This event gave rise to the \"Moscow Artistamp Collection\" which presently includes more than 700 works of 83 artists from 19 countries.\n\nFrom November 12, 1999, to January 19, 2000, the Art Institute of Boston hosted the \"Stamp Art and Artists Stamps\" exhibition. The show included artistamp sheets from Natalia Lamanova, Alexander Kholopov of Russia, Vittore Baroni, Clemente Padin, Jose Carlos Soto, Pere Sousa and Donald Evans. PBS documented this exhibit.\n\nFebruary - March 2000: Moscow artists Ivan Kolesnikov and Sergei Denisov presented a joint Artistamp project entitled \"Azbuka Veka (The Alphabet of the Century)\" at the S’ART Gallery in Moscow. The show presented stamps of famous people tagged with letters from the Russian alphabet.\n\nIn December 2000, an exhibit featuring artistamps from around the world was displayed at the E. Max von Isser Gallery of Art at Elgin Community College, Elgin, Illinois.\n\nThe exhibition \"Motherland/Fatherland\" was held at The International Museum Exhibition Centre in Moscow from July 11 to 21, 2002. The event was curated by Natalie Lamanova, Alexander Kholopv and Jas Felter. Presented there were works by 44 artists from Russia, Canada, Germany, New Zealand, Spain, Korea, Italy, Japan, The Netherlands, Venezuela, Armenia and the United States.\n\nThe Sonoma County Museum in Santa Rosa, California, hosted the exhibit \"Post Modern Post: International Artistamps\" in April 2003. The show including the work of 50 artists from 15 countries.\n\nIn 2005, The exhibition \"Axis of Evil\" opened at The Nexus Gallery, Philadelphia in March 2005, and later traveled to Chicago and Green Bay, Wisconsin. Curated by Chicago-based artist Michael Hernandez de Luna, the exhibit featured 127 works by 47 stamp artists from 11 countries. It originated with the publication of the book Axis of Evil: Perforated Praeter Naturam, published by Qualiatica Press.\n\nIn the spring of 2007, the Budapest Museum of Fine Arts hosted a successful exhibition entitled \"ParaStamp: Four Decades of Artistamps, from Fluxus to the Internet\". Curated by György Galántai, the exhibition presented approximately 500 works selected from the archive of the Artpool Art Research Center. More than 250 of the most important artists working in the artistamp genre were represented, including Natalie Lamanova, Anna Banana, Ed Varney, Guy Bleus, Twine Workshop, Michael Hernandez de Luna, Steve Smith, Vittore Baroni, Robert Watts, H.R. Fricker, Ryosuke Cohen, Ginny Lloyd, and Al Brandtner. \"The new function artistamp has in this exhibition is to convey the explosively changing worldview at the turn of the millennium,\" said Galántai in an interview. The show ran from March 23 to June 24, 2007.\n\nIn July 2007, the SomArts Cultural Center gallery presented the \"Multiplicity/Multiplicidad: Mailart & Artistamp Show\", in collaboration with Vortice Argentina, Buenos Aires.\n\nThe New Museum Weserburg in Bermen, Germany, held the exhibition \"Leck mich! - Künstlerbriefmarken seit den 1960er Jahren\" (\"Lick me! - Artist’s Stamps since the Sixties\") from July 7, 2007 through February 2, 2008, assembling more than 300 works to present a global ensemble of stamp art. A portion of the exhibition description reads:\n\nTurner Prize-winning artist and Academy Award-winning filmmaker Steve McQueen assembled the \"Queen and Country\" exhibition comprising stamps depicting British servicemen and women killed in Iraq. The exhibition was hosted at the Scottish National Gallery of Modern Art in Edinburgh between December 3, 2008, and February 15, 2009.\n\nDavid Krueger's series of pseudo-stamps critiquing the Bush administration, begun in 2001, was on view at the CUE Art Foundation in Chelsea, Manhattan, New York, from April 24 - May 31, 2008.\n\nThe JAY Gallery in Seoul, Korea, sponsored the exhibition, \"American Artistamps,\" curated by John Held, Jr., from May 19 - June 1, 2010. It featured works by Robert Watts, Donald Evans, Harley, Dogfish, Picasso Gaglione, Michael Thompson, Al Ackerman, Darlene Altschul, Mike Dickau and John Ringer.\n\nThe Gina Lotta Post Artistamp Museum, curated by Ginny Lloyd, opened in May 2010. Currently located in Jupiter, Florida, the museum collection began in the late 1970s and exhibits over 4,200 works by more than 200 international artistamp creators. Selections from the museum can be seen online. Items from the museum were on exhibit at the Jaffe Center for the Book Arts in Boca Raton, Florida from July 15 to October 27, 2010. Artists stamps by Harley, Jurgen Olbrich, Reed Altemus, Rockola, Picasso Gaglione, Buz Blurr, Vitore Baroni, and Ginny Lloyd were featured as part of the \"Carbon Alternative\" exhibit.\nIn November 2012, The Museum of Artistamps opened in Seattle. The museum is curated by Robert Rudine (Dogfish), working in collaboration with James Felter.\n\nOn November 10, 2012, the exhibition, AARPEX (the Artistamp Reunion and Philatelic Expo), was held in Seattle. AARPEX was organized by Carl Chew and Robert Rudine.\n\nArtistamps have been recognized in mainstream stamp publications, such as \"Linn's Stamp News\". In 2005, Linn's published an article covering the release of Twine Workshop's \"The Blighted State of America\" artistamp, a piece directly criticizing then U.S. president George W. Bush.\n\nJohn Held Jr.'s book, \"Small Scale Subversion: Mail Art & Artistamps,\" was published on April 11, 2015.\n\nIn 2005, United States Secret Service agents attended the opening of the \"Axis of Evil\" exhibition at Columbia College Chicago's Glass Curtain Gallery. According to Carol Ann Brown, director of the gallery, the agents were most interested in the work entitled \"Patriot Act\" by Chicago-based artist Al Brandtner. The work depicts a revolver pointed at the head of then President George W. Bush. Secret Service spokesman Tom Mazur stated, \"We need to ensure ... that this is nothing more than artwork with a political statement.\"\n\nWhen the exhibit opened at a gallery on the University of Wisconsin-Green Bay campus on September 15, 2005, university chancellor Bruce Shepard directed the removal of Brandtner's work from the gallery. In a letter to faculty and staff, Shepard said \"in a society all too violence prone, using these or other venues to appear to advocate or suggest assassination is not something the UW-Green Bay may do.\"\n\nArtistamps are created as one-off works of art, in limited editions, or as mass-produced product. Artistamps have been produced as multiples of one design per sheet; a multitude of designs per page; as miniature sheets with a decorative or inclusive border; in booklets; or any combination/size/shape the artist chooses.\n\nTechniques for the creation of artistamps may include perforating the paper to resemble a traditional perforated stamp, as well as applying gum to the reverse side of the paper. Self-adhesive paper is also used. The image represented on the stamp may be hand-drawn or painted, lithographed or offset-printed, photographed, photocopied, etched, engraved, silk-screened, rubber stamped, or produced on a digital inkjet or laser printer. While the method of production is entirely the choice of the artist, creators who exclusively or primarily use rubber stamps are occasionally held in contempt by members of the artistamp community, some of whom refer to such producers as \"bunny-stampers.\"\n\nThe personal computer, personal printer and color photocopier have served to democratize the means of production of artistamps. It is no coincidence that the early 1980s explosion in artistamp creation paralleled the development and widespread use of color photocopiers, and that a similar surge followed the ubiquity of personal computers and inexpensive color printers. Still, the lack of workable, widely available, cheap and accessible perforators have limited the number of artists who can create convincing simulcra of traditional perforated stamps.\n\nMakers of artistamps sometimes apply cancellations to the stamps when affixing them to covers; first day of issue covers for artistamps also exist.\n\nThe rise of the Internet has seen the development of the concept of the so-called cyberstamp, a digital-only stamp-like image designed primarily to be viewed online and often sent with e-mail. Cyberstamps also allow the use of animated imagery. Whether a digital image, however, can be considered a \"stamp\" at all is a matter of dispute.\n\nArtists working in the stamp art medium often employ fixed-line perforators as part of the creation process. Most functional and sought-after of these machines are cast-iron, pedal-operated devices manufactured beginning in the 1880s by bindery equipment makers like F.P Rosback Co. and Latham Machinery Co. Rosback also produced table-top perforators, but surviving models are exceedingly rare. Other methods for perforating paper to resemble stamp sheets have generally proven unsatisfactory. Such alternative methods used include using sewing machines, sewing pounces, leather punches, modified veterinary needles, and speciality scissors. Some owners of pedal-operated or motorized perforators sell pre-perforated paper and offer perforating services for a fee.\n\nIn 2005 and 2006, a machinist operating under the name \"Dr. Arcane\" manufactured and sold about 20 \"Whizbang\" perforators. These table-top devices worked well, but were reportedly fragile.\n\nIn 2004, the International Brotherhood of Perforator Workers (IBPW), an organization based in Washington, D.C., was established to represent the interests of artists owning and/or operating perforators in the creation of stamp art.\n\n\nCreators of artistamps include Donald Evans, Ginny Lloyd (Gina Lotta), Ed Varney, Crackerjack Kid (Chuck Welsh), Reed Altemus, Darlene Altschul (DKA POST), Katerina Nikoltsou, Eleanor Kent, Beverly Dittberner, Jim Czyl, Boog, Keith Buchholz, Otto Sherman, Marilyn Rosenberg, Petra Weimer, Peter Netmail, Buster Cleveland, William Rowe, Miguel Jimenez-El Taller de Zenon, Dame Mailarta, György Galántai, Carl Chew, Anna Banana, Patricia Tavenner, Jas W Felter, Big Dada, Michael Bidner, Michael Thompson, Michael Hernandez de Luna, Ed Paschke, Clifford Harper, Al Brandtner, Steve Smith, Russell Butler (buZ blurr), Alan Brignull, Dennis Jordan, Rachel Scott, Guy Bleus, Bugpost, Arturo G. Fallico, Harley, Hamlet Mateo, Michelangelo Mayo (Post 1211), Marlon Vito Picasso (Rocola), Kursade Karatas, Bruce Grenville, Natalie Lamanova, Robert Rudine, H.R. Fricker, Cascadia Art Post, John Rininger, Isgar of Post Office Albion, Slava Vinogradov, John Held Jr., Mike Dickau, John Langford, Matthew Rose, Vittore Baroni, Jean-Marc Rastorfer, Bethany Lee of Poeticpaperpost, Carlo Pittore, JP Jacob, Eiichi Matsuhashi, Ivan Kolenikov, the Institute of Cultural Inquiry, Sergej Denisov, T.H.E. Hill, Steve McQueen and Twine Workshop.\n\nCommercial publishers have produced material which could be considered as falling within the artistamp realm: Dover Publications published William Rowe's stamp book titled \"Surreal Stickers & Unreal Stamps\", 1982, included 224 full-colored gummed and perforated stamps. \"Mad Magazine\" included perforated, gummed stamps in a few issues. Cartoonist Garry Trudeau, creator of the Doonesbury comic strip, released \"The 1990 Doonesbury Stamp Album\" through Penguin in 1990; this album contained a large number of perforated, gummed stamps featuring characters and settings from Doonesbury. Another example is a series of Ankh-Morpork stamps created to publicise the \"Discworld\" novel \"Going Postal\".\n\n"}
{"id": "50026598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50026598", "title": "Avayalik", "text": "Avayalik\n\nAvayalik is an island at the far north of the Labrador Peninsula in the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador. It is a possible site of early Norse colonization of North America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48989944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48989944", "title": "Bornholm amulet", "text": "Bornholm amulet\n\nThe Bornholm amulet is an Arabic silver coin with Latin text written with runic inscription. The amulet is only 2.5 cm in diameter.\n\nThe finding place is unknown but the coin was handed over to the National Museum of Denmark in 1821, with information that the coin was found in the year 1770 on Bornholm.\n\nThe dating of the amulet was at first considered to be between 907 and 913. In 1965, the dating was revised to be between 885 and 896.\n\nThe height of the runes are 0,3-0,8 cm.\n\nTransliteration\n\nObverse; e(i) (e)asusus kristus= =fil=uis t(e)i fifi inomina b|atris eþ fil|ius ins eþ sb=iritu|s\n\nReverse; k=rist=us (b)i | bius=ank=uis fifiþ | fit=am itirn=a|m k=ustotaþit\n\nTranscription\n\nEnglish translation\n\nThe inscription may very well be the oldest example of so-called Runic Latin in Denmark.\n\n"}
{"id": "43114112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43114112", "title": "Brenda Pruden Winnewisser", "text": "Brenda Pruden Winnewisser\n\nBrenda Pruden Winnewisser is a scientist and oral historian. She is the wife of Manfred Winnewisser, a professor of physics at Ohio State University in Columbus, Ohio. Winnewisser has collaborated on Manfred Winnewisser's research in terahertz science and technology. According to Microsoft Academic Search, she has 122 research publications (as of 2014).\n\nWinnewisser grew up in Newark, New Jersey and South Orange, New Jersey. She graduated from the Beard School (now Morristown-Beard School) in Orange, New Jersey in 1957. Winnewisser then completed her undergraduate studies at Wellesley College in Wellesley, Massachusetts in 1961. Her role model at Wellesley, Janet Brown Guernsey, encouraged her to pursue a career in physics. After earning her PhD from Duke University in Durham, North Carolina, Winnewisser received a fellowship from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation.\n\nWinnewisser conducts oral history projects on physics pioneers in collaboration with the Center for the History of Physics at the American Institute of Physics in College Park, Maryland. She has published books and other works on Hedwig Kohn, Walter Gordy, and other figures.\n\nWinnewisser married Manfred Winnewisser in South Orange, New Jersey in 1965.\n"}
{"id": "25107756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25107756", "title": "Christianity in the modern era", "text": "Christianity in the modern era\n\nThe history of modern Christianity concerns the Christian religion from the end of the Early Modern era to the present day. The Early Modern history of Christianity is usually taken to begin with the Protestant Reformation (usually rounded down to 1500) and ending in the late 18th century with the onset of the Industrial Revolution and the events leading up to the French Revolution of 1789. This article only covers 1720 to the current date. For the early modern period, see the articles on the Protestant Reformation, the Counter-Reformation and the Catholic Church and the Age of Discovery.\n\nBecoming common to all of Europe in the Middle Ages, Christianity expanded throughout the world during the Age of Exploration. Christianity has thus become the world's largest religion. Christianity differs most significantly from the other religions in the claim that Jesus Christ is God the Son, but throughout its history, it has weathered schisms and theological disputes that have resulted in many distinct churches. The largest branches of Christianity are the Roman Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox Church, and the Protestant churches. Following the Fall of Constantinople, Christianity followed two different paths: Western Christianity and Eastern Christianity.\n\nThe Enlightenment constituted a new challenge of the Church. Unlike the Protestant Reformation, which questioned certain Christian doctrines, the Enlightenment questioned Christianity as a whole. Generally, it elevated human reason above divine revelation and down-graded religious authorities such as the papacy based on it\n\nThe Counter-Reformation on the Continent and the growth of a Puritan party dedicated to further Protestant reform polarized the Elizabethan Age, although it was not until the 1640s that England underwent religious strife comparable to that which its neighbours had suffered some generations before.\n\nThe early \"Puritan movement\" (late 16th century-17th century) was Reformed or Calvinist and was a movement for reform in the Church of England. Its origins lay in the discontent with the Elizabethan Religious Settlement. The desire was for the Church of England to resemble more closely the Protestant churches of Europe, especially Geneva. The Puritans objected to ornaments and ritual in the churches as idolatrous (vestments, surplices, organs, genuflection), which they castigated as \"popish pomp and rags\". (See Vestments controversy.) They also objected to ecclesiastical courts. They refused to endorse completely all of the ritual directions and formulas of the \"Book of Common Prayer\"; the imposition of its liturgical order by legal force and inspection sharpened Puritanism into a definite opposition movement.\n\nThe later Puritan movement were often referred to as Dissenters and Nonconformists and eventually led to the formation of various Reformed denominations.\n\nThe most famous and well-known emigration to America was the migration of the Puritans, or pilgrims, left England so that they could live in an area with Puritanism established as the exclusive civic religion. Though they had left England because of the suppression of their religious practice, most Puritans had thereafter originally settled in the Low Countries but found the licentiousness there, where the state hesitated from enforcing religious practice, as unacceptable, so with hopes of a Puritan utopia, they set out to establish the English colonies of New England, which later became the United States.\n\nThese Puritan separatists were also known as \"the pilgrims\". After establishing a colony at Plymouth (in what would become later Massachusetts) in 1620, the Puritan pilgrims received a charter from the King of England which legitimized their colony, allowing them to do trade and commerce with merchants in England, in accordance with the principles of mercantilism. This successful, though initially quite difficult, colony marked the beginning of the Protestant presence in America (the earlier French, Spanish and Portuguese settlements had been Catholic), and became a kind of oasis of spiritual and economic freedom, to which persecuted Protestants and other minorities from the British Isles and Europe (and later, from all over the world) fled to for peace, freedom and opportunity.\n\nThe original intent of the colonists was to establish spiritual Puritanism, which had been denied to them in England and the rest of Europe to engage in peaceful commerce with England and the Native American Indians and to Christianize the peoples of the Americas.\n\nThe most famous colonisation by Protestants in the New World was that of English Puritans in North America. Unlike the Spanish or French, the English colonists made surprisingly little effort to evangelise the native peoples.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church established a number of Missions to convert the indigenous peoples. At the same time, missionaries such those from Jesuits, Augustinians, Franciscans and Dominicans were moving into Asia and the Far East. The Portuguese sent missions into Africa. Matteo Ricci's Jesuit mission to China was relatively peaceful and focused on adopted the Catholic faith to Chinese thinking, permitting among others the veneration of the dead. The Vatican disagreed and forbade any adaptation in the so-called Chinese Rites controversy in 1692 and 1742. The expansion of the Catholic Portuguese Empire and Spanish Empire with a significant roled played by the Roman Catholic Church led to the Christianization of the indigenous populations of the Americas such as the Aztecs and Incas, but, until the 19th century, missions had to work under the Spanish and Portuguese governments and military.\n\nRevivalism refers to the Calvinist and Wesleyan revival, called the Great Awakening, in North America which saw the development of evangelical Congregationalist, Presbyterian, Baptist, and new Methodist churches. When the movement eventually waned, it gave rise to new Restorationist movements.\n\nThe First Great Awakening was a wave of religious enthusiasm among Protestants in the American colonies \"c\". 1730–1740, emphasising the traditional Reformed virtues of Godly preaching, rudimentary liturgy, and a deep sense of personal guilt and redemption by Christ Jesus. Historian Sydney E. Ahlstrom saw it as part of a \"great international Protestant upheaval\" that also created Pietism in Germany, the Evangelical Revival, and Methodism in England. It centred on reviving the spirituality of established congregations, and mostly affected Congregational, Presbyterian, Dutch Reformed, German Reformed, Baptist, and Methodist churches, while also spreading within the slave population. The Second Great Awakening (1800–1830s), unlike the first, focused on the unchurched and sought to instil in them a deep sense of personal salvation as experienced in revival meetings. It also sparked the beginnings of the Restoration Movement, the Latter Day Saint movement, Adventism and the Holiness movement. The Third Great Awakening began from 1857 and was most notable for taking the movement throughout the world, especially in English speaking countries. The final group to emerge from the \"great awakenings\" in North America was Pentecostalism, which had its roots in the Methodist, Wesleyan, and Holiness movements, and began in 1906 on Azusa Street, in Los Angeles. Pentecostalism would later lead to the Charismatic movement.\n\nMatters grew still worse with the violent anti-clericalism of the French Revolution. Direct attacks on the wealth of the Catholic Church and associated grievances led to the wholesale nationalisation of church property and attempts to establish a state-run church. Large numbers of priests refused to take an oath of compliance to the National Assembly, leading to the Catholic Church being outlawed and replaced by a new religion of the worship of \"Reason\" along with a new French Republican Calendar. In this period, all monasteries were destroyed, 30,000 priests were exiled and hundreds more were killed.\n\nWhen Pope Pius VI sided against the revolution in the First Coalition, Napoleon Bonaparte invaded Italy. The 82-year-old pope was taken as a prisoner to France in February 1799 and died in Valence August 29, 1799 after six months of captivity. To win popular support for his rule, Napoleon re-established the Catholic Church in France through the Concordat of 1801. All over Europe, the end of the Napoleonic wars signaled by the Congress of Vienna, brought Catholic revival, renewed enthusiasm, and new respect for the papacy following the depredations of the previous era.\n\nRestorationism refers to various unaffiliated movements that considered contemporary Christianity, in all its forms, to be a deviation from the true, original Christianity, which these groups then attempted to \"Reconstruct\", often using the Book of Acts as a \"guidebook\" of sorts. Restorationism developed out of the Second Great Awakening and is historically connected to the Protestant Reformation, but differs in that Restorationists do not usually describe themselves as \"reforming\" a Christian church continuously existing from the time of Jesus, but as \"restoring\" the Church that they believe was lost at some point. The name Restoration is also used to describe the Latter-day Saints (Mormons) and the Jehovah's Witness Movement.\n\nThe driving force behind and founder of the Latter Day Saint movement was Joseph Smith, Jr., and to a lesser extent, during the movement's first two years, Oliver Cowdery. Throughout his life, Smith told of an experience he had as a boy having seen God the Father and Jesus Christ as two separate beings, who told him that the true church had been lost and would be restored through him, and that he would be given the authority to organize and lead the true Church of Christ. Smith and Cowdery also explained that the angels John the Baptist, Peter, James and John visited them in 1829 and gave them authority to reestablish the Church of Christ and in 1838 Joseph Smith announced that he had received a revelation from God that officially changed the name to the \"Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints\".\n\nSmith first published the Book of Mormon in March 1830, which LDS members believe was translated from Golden Plates buried in the ground, and contains a record of Americas between about 600 BC and 400 AD and an original church of Jesus therein.\n\nIn 1844, William Law and several other Latter Day Saints in church leadership positions publicly denounced Smith's secret practice of polygamy in the controversial \"Nauvoo Expositor\", and formed their own church. The city council of Nauvoo, Illinois subsequently had the printing press of the \"Expositor\" destroyed. In spite of Smith's later offer to pay damages for destroyed property, critics of Smith and the church considered the destruction heavy-handed. Some called for the Latter Day Saints to be either expelled or destroyed. Following Smith's assassination by a mob in Carthage, Illinois, some prominent members of the church claimed to be Smith's legitimate successor.\n\nThese various claims resulted in a succession crisis, in which the majority of church members followed Brigham Young, he being the senior Apostle of the church; others followed Sidney Rigdon or James Strang. The crisis resulted in several permanent schisms as well as the formation of occasional splinter groups, some of which no longer exist. These various groups are occasionally referred to under two geographical headings: \"Prairie Saints\" (those that remained in the Midwest United States) and \"Rocky Mountain Saints\" (those who followed Brigham Young to what would later become the state of Utah). Today, there are many schism organizations who regard themselves as a part of the Latter Day Saint movement, though in most cases they do not acknowledge the other branches as valid and regard their own tradition as the only correct and authorized version of the church Smith founded. The vast majority of Latter Day Saints belong to the largest denomination, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) which claims 13 million members worldwide. The second-largest denomination is the Community of Christ, which reports over 250,000 members.\n\nFascism describes certain related political regimes in 20th-century Europe, especially the Nazi Germany of Hitler, the Fascist Italy of Mussolini and the falangist Spain of Franco. About Italian Fascism Pope Pius XI is said to have been moderately sceptic and G. K. Chesterton friendly but critical. In the Spanish Civil War Roman Catholics internationally were mainly in support of either neutral or on Franco's side, due to Azaña's de facto toleration of anti-clerical violence in and just before this conflict. Dollfuss in Austria was the ideal politician realising Pope Pius XI's \"Quadragesimo anno\".\n\nThe position of Christians in Nazi Fascism is highly complex.\n\nRegarding the matter, historian Derek Holmes wrote, \"There is no doubt that the Catholic districts, resisted the lure of National Socialism [Nazism] far better than the Protestant ones.\" Pope Pius XI declared - \"Mit brennender Sorge\" - that Fascist governments had hidden \"pagan intentions\" and expressed the irreconcilability of the Catholic position and Totalitarian Fascist State Worship, which placed the nation above God and fundamental human rights and dignity. His declaration that \"Spiritually, [Christians] are all Semites\" prompted the Nazis to give him the title \"Chief Rabbi of the Christian World.\"\n\nCatholic priests were executed in concentration camps alongside Jews; for example, 2,600 Catholic Priests were imprisoned in Dachau, and 2,000 of them were executed. A further 2,700 Polish priests were executed (a quarter of all Polish priests), and 5,350 Polish nuns were either displaced, imprisoned, or executed. Many Catholic laypeople and clergy played notable roles in sheltering Jews during the Holocaust, including Pope Pius XII (1876–1958). The head rabbi of Rome became a Catholic in 1945 and, in honour of the actions the Pope undertook to save Jewish lives, he took the name Eugenio (the pope's first name). A former Israeli consul in Italy claimed: \"The Catholic Church saved more Jewish lives during the war than all the other churches, religious institutions, and rescue organisations put together.\"\n\nThe relationship between Nazism and Protestantism, especially the German Lutheran Church, was complex. Though the majority of Protestant church leaders in Germany supported the Nazis' growing anti-Jewish activities, some, such as Dietrich Bonhoeffer (a Lutheran pastor) were strongly opposed to the Nazis. Bonhoeffer was later found guilty in the conspiracy to assassinate Hitler and executed.\n\nEcumenism broadly refers to movements between Christian groups to establish a degree of unity through dialogue. \"Ecumenism\" is derived from Greek (oikoumene), which means \"the inhabited world\", but more figuratively something like \"universal oneness.\" The movement can be distinguished into Catholic and Protestant movements, with the latter characterised by a redefined ecclesiology of \"denominationalism\" (which the Catholic Church, among others, rejects).\n\nOver the last century, a number of moves have been made to reconcile the schism between the Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox churches. Although progress has been made, concerns over papal primacy and the independence of the smaller Orthodox churches has blocked a final resolution of the schism.\n\nOn 30 November 1895, Pope Leo XIII published the Apostolic Letter \"Orientalium Dignitas\" (On the Churches of the East) safeguarding the importance and continuance of the Eastern traditions for the whole Church. On 7 December 1965, a Joint Catholic-Orthodox Declaration of Pope Paul VI and the Ecumenical Patriarch Athenagoras I was issued lifting the mutual excommunications of 1054.\n\nSome of the most difficult questions in relations with the ancient Eastern Churches concern some doctrine (i.e. Filioque, Scholasticism, functional purposes of asceticism, the essence of God, Hesychasm, Fourth Crusade, establishment of the Latin Empire, Uniatism to note but a few) as well as practical matters such as the concrete exercise of the claim to papal primacy and how to ensure that ecclesiastical union would not mean mere absorption of the smaller Churches by the Latin component of the much larger Catholic Church (the most numerous single religious denomination in the world), and the stifling or abandonment of their own rich theological, liturgical and cultural heritage.\n\nWith respect to Catholic relations with Protestant communities, certain commissions were established to foster dialogue and documents have been produced aimed at identifying points of doctrinal unity, such as the Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification produced with the Lutheran World Federation in 1999.\n\nEcumenical movements within Protestantism have focused on determining a list of doctrines and practices essential to being Christian and thus extending to all groups which fulfil these basic criteria a (more or less) co-equal status, with perhaps one's own group still retaining a \"first among equal\" standing. This process involved a redefinition of the idea of \"the Church\" from traditional theology. This ecclesiology, known as denominationalism, contends that each group (which fulfils the essential criteria of \"being Christian\") is a sub-group of a greater \"Christian Church\", itself a purely abstract concept with no direct representation, i.e., no group, or \"denomination\", claims to be \"the Church.\" Obviously, this ecclesiology is at variance with other groups that indeed consider themselves to be \"the Church.\" The \"essential criteria\" generally consist of belief in the Trinity, belief that Jesus Christ is the only way to have forgiveness and eternal life, and that He died and rose again bodily.\n\nLiberal Christianity, sometimes called liberal theology, is an umbrella term covering diverse, philosophically-informed religious movements and moods within late 18th-, 19th- and 20th-century Christianity. The word \"liberal\" in liberal Christianity does not refer to a leftist \"political\" agenda or set of beliefs, but rather to the freedom of dialectic process associated with continental philosophy and other philosophical and religious paradigms developed during the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nFundamentalist Christianity, is a movement that arose mainly within British and American Protestantism in the late 19th and early 20th centuries in reaction to modernism and certain liberal Protestant groups that denied doctrines considered fundamental to Christianity yet still called themselves \"Christian.\" Thus, fundamentalism sought to re-establish tenets that could not be denied without relinquishing a Christian identity, the \"fundamentals\": inerrancy of the Bible, Sola Scriptura, the Virgin Birth of Jesus, the doctrine of substitutionary atonement, the bodily Resurrection of Jesus, and the imminent return of Jesus Christ.\n\nOn 11 October 1962 Pope John XXIII opened the Second Vatican Council, the 21st ecumenical council of the Catholic Church. The council was \"pastoral\" in nature, emphasising and clarifying already defined dogma, revising liturgical practices, and providing guidance for articulating traditional Church teachings in contemporary times. The council is perhaps best known for its instructions that the Mass may be celebrated in the vernacular as well as in Latin\n\nOrthodoxy was very strong in Russia, which had recently acquired an autocephalous status, and as the only part of the Orthodox communion which remained outside the control of the Ottoman Empire; Moscow called itself the Third Rome, as the heir of Constantinople. In 1721 Tsar Peter I abolished completely the patriarchate and so the Russian Orthodox Church effectively became a department of the government, ruled by a Most Holy Synod composed of senior bishops and lay bureaucrats appointed by the Tsar himself. This continued until the 20th century.\n\nIn 1453, Constantinople fell to the Ottoman Empire. Under Ottoman rule, the Greek Orthodox Church acquired substantial power as an autonomous \"millet\". The ecumenical patriarch was the religious and administrative ruler of the entire \"Greek Orthodox nation\" (Ottoman administrative unit), which encompassed all the Eastern Orthodox subjects of the Empire. As a result of the Ottoman conquest and the fall of Constantinople, the entire Orthodox communion of the Balkans and the Near East became suddenly isolated from the West.\n\nFor the next four hundred years, it would be confined within a hostile Islamic world, with which it had little in common religiously or culturally. This is, in part, due to this geographical and intellectual confinement that the voice of Eastern Orthodoxy was not heard during the Reformation in sixteenth-century Europe. As a result, this important theological debate often seems strange and distorted to the Orthodox. They never took part in it and thus neither Reformation nor Counter-Reformation is part of their theological framework.\n\nThe new Ottoman government that arose from the ashes of Byzantine civilisation was neither primitive nor barbaric. Islam not only recognised Jesus as a great prophet, but tolerated Christians as another People of the Book. As such, the Church was not extinguished nor was its canonical and hierarchical organisation significantly disrupted. Its administration continued to function. One of the first things that Mehmet the Conqueror did was to allow the Church to elect a new patriarch, Gennadius Scholarius. The Hagia Sophia and the Parthenon, which had been Christian churches for nearly a millennium were, admittedly, converted into mosques, yet countless other churches, both in Constantinople and elsewhere, remained in Christian hands. Moreover, it is striking that the patriarch's and the hierarchy's position was considerably strengthened and their power increased. They were endowed with civil as well as ecclesiastical power over all Christians in Ottoman territories. Because Islamic law makes no distinction between nationality and religion, all Christians, regardless of their language or nationality, were considered a single millet, or nation. The patriarch, as the highest ranking hierarch, was thus invested with civil and religious authority and made ethnarch, head of the entire Christian Orthodox population. Practically, this meant that all Orthodox Churches within Ottoman territory were under the control of Constantinople. Thus, the authority and jurisdictional frontiers of the patriarch were enormously enlarged.\n\nHowever, these rights and privileges (see Dhimmitude), including freedom of worship and religious organisation, were often established in principle but seldom corresponded to reality. The legal privileges of the patriarch and the Church depended, in fact, on the whim and mercy of the Sultan and the Sublime Porte, while all Christians were viewed as little more than second-class citizens. Moreover, Turkish corruption and brutality were not a myth. That it was the \"infidel\" Christian who experienced this more than anyone else is not in doubt. Nor were pogroms of Christians in these centuries unknown (see Greco-Turkish relations). Devastating, too, for the Church was the fact that it could not bear witness to Christ. Missionary work among Moslems was dangerous and indeed impossible, whereas conversion to Islam was entirely legal and permissible. Converts to Islam who returned to Orthodoxy were put to death as apostates. No new churches could be built and even the ringing of church bells was prohibited. Education of the clergy and the Christian population either ceased altogether or was reduced to the most rudimentary elements.\n\nThe Orthodox Church found itself subject to the Turkish system of corruption. The patriarchal throne was frequently sold to the highest bidder, while new patriarchal investiture was accompanied by heavy payment to the government. In order to recoup their losses, patriarchs and bishops taxed the local parishes and their clergy. Nor was the patriarchal throne ever secure. Few patriarchs between the fifteenth and the nineteenth centuries died a natural death while in office. The forced abdications, exiles, hangings, drownings, and poisonings of patriarchs are well documented. But if the patriarch's position was precarious so was the hierarchy's. The hanging of patriarch Gregory V from the gate of the patriarchate on Easter Sunday 1821 was accompanied by the execution of two metropolitans and twelve bishops.\n\nDevshirmeh was the system of the collection of young boys from conquered Christian lands by the Ottoman sultans as a form of regular taxation in order to build a loyal army (formerly largely composed of war captives) and the class of (military) administrators called the \"Janissaries\", or other servants such as tellak in hamams. The word \"devşirme\" means \"collecting, gathering\" in Ottoman Turkish. Boys delivered to the Ottomans in this way were called \"ghilmán\" or \"acemi oglanlar\" (\"novice boys\").\n\nThe Russian Orthodox Church held a privileged position in the Russian Empire, expressed in the motto, Orthodoxy, Autocracy, and Populism, of the late Russian Empire. At the same time, it was placed under the control of the Tsar by the Church reform of Peter I in the 18th century. Its governing body was Most Holy Synod, which was run by an official (titled Ober-Procurator) appointed by the Tsar himself.\n\nThe church was involved in the various campaigns of russification, and accused of the involvement in anti-Jewish pogroms. In the case of anti-Semitism and the anti-Jewish pogroms, no evidence is given of the direct participation of the church, and many Russian Orthodox clerics, including senior hierarchs, openly defended persecuted Jews, at least from the second half of the nineteenth century. Also, the Church has no official position on Judaism as such.\n\nThe Church was allowed to impose taxes on the peasants. \n\nThe Church, like the Tsarist state was seen as an enemy of the people by the Bolsheviks and other Russian revolutionaries.\n\nThe Russian Orthodox Church collaborated with the White Army in the Russian Civil War (see White movement) after the October Revolution. This may have further strengthened the Bolshevik animus against the church.\n\nAfter the October Revolution of 7 November 1917 (October 25 Old Calendar) there was a movement within the Soviet Union to unite all of the people of the world under Communist rule (see Communist International). This included the Eastern European bloc countries as well as the Balkan States. Since some of these Slavic states tied their ethnic heritage to their ethnic churches, both the peoples and their church where targeted by the Soviet. The Soviets' official religious stance was one of \"religious freedom or tolerance\", though the state established atheism as the only scientific truth. Criticism of atheism was strictly forbidden and sometimes lead to imprisonment.\n\nThe Soviet Union was the first state to have as an ideological objective the elimination of religion. Toward that end, the Communist regime confiscated church property, ridiculed religion, harassed believers, and propagated atheism in the schools. Actions toward particular religions, however, were determined by State interests, and most organised religions were never outlawed.\nSome actions against Orthodox priests and believers along with execution included torture being sent to prison camps, labour camps or mental hospitals.\nThe result of this state atheism was to transform the Church into a persecuted and martyred Church. In the first five years after the Bolshevik revolution, 28 bishops and 1,200 priests were executed. This included people like the Grand Duchess Elizabeth Fyodorovna who was at this point a monastic. Along with her murder was Grand Duke Sergei Mikhailovich Romanov; the Princes Ioann Konstantinovich, Konstantin Konstantinovich, Igor Konstantinovich and Vladimir Pavlovich Paley; Grand Duke Sergei's secretary, Fyodor Remez; and Varvara Yakovleva, a sister from the Grand Duchess Elizabeth's convent. They were herded into the forest, pushed into an abandoned mineshaft and grenades were then hurled into the mineshaft. Her remains were buried in Jerusalem, in the Church of Maria Magdalene.\nThe main target of the anti-religious campaign in the 1920s and 1930s was the Russian Orthodox Church, which had the largest number of faithful. Nearly its entire clergy, and many of its believers, were shot or sent to labor camps. Theological schools were closed, and church publications were prohibited. In the period between 1927 and 1940, the number of Orthodox Churches in the Russian Republic fell from 29,584 to less than 500. Between 1917 and 1940, 130,000 Orthodox priests were arrested. Of these, 95,000 were put to death, executed by firing squad. Father Pavel Florensky was one of the New-martyrs of this particular period.\n\nAfter Nazi Germany's attack on the Soviet Union in 1941, Joseph Stalin revived the Russian Orthodox Church to intensify patriotic support for the war effort. By 1957 about 22,000 Russian Orthodox churches had become active. But in 1959 Nikita Khrushchev initiated his own campaign against the Russian Orthodox Church and forced the closure of about 12,000 churches. By 1985 fewer than 7,000 churches remained active. Members of the church hierarchy were jailed or forced out, their places taken by docile clergy, many of whom had ties with the KGB. \n\nIn the Soviet Union, in addition to the methodical closing and destruction of churches, the charitable and social work formerly done by ecclesiastical authorities was taken over by the state. As with all private property, Church owned property was confiscated into public use. The few places of worship left to the Church were legally viewed as state property which the government permitted the church to use. After the advent of state funded universal education, the Church was not permitted to carry on educational, instructional activity for children. For adults, only training for church-related occupations was allowed. Outside of sermons during the celebration of the divine liturgy it could not instruct or evangelise to the faithful or its youth. Catechism classes, religious schools, study groups, Sunday schools and religious publications were all illegal and or banned. This persecution continued, even after the death of Stalin until the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. This caused many religious tracts to be circulated as illegal literature or samizdat.\nSince the fall of the Soviet Union there have been many New-martyrs added as Saints from the yoke of atheism.\n\nOne of the most striking developments in modern historical Orthodoxy is the dispersion of Orthodox Christians to the West. Emigration from Greece and the Near East in the last hundred years has created a sizable Orthodox diaspora in Western Europe, North and South America, and Australia. In addition, the Bolshevik Revolution forced thousands of Russian exiles westward. As a result, Orthodoxy's traditional frontiers have been profoundly modified. Millions of Orthodox are no longer geographically \"eastern\" since they live permanently in their newly adopted countries in the West. Nonetheless, they remain Eastern Orthodox in their faith and practice.\n\n\nThe following links give an overview of the history of Christianity:\n\nThe following links provide quantitative data related to Christianity and other major religions, including rates of adherence at different points in time:\n"}
{"id": "9588637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9588637", "title": "Cyrildene", "text": "Cyrildene\n\nCyrildene () is a suburb of Johannesburg, South Africa. The area is found east of the Johannesburg CBD and is surrounded by the suburbs of Linksfield, Observatory and Bruma. It is noted for a new Chinatown that exists on Derrick Avenue. This new Chinatown is now considered as the main Chinatown in Johannesburg, replacing the declining Chinatown on Commissioner Street in the inner-city of Johannesburg. It is located in Region E of the City of Johannesburg Metropolitan Municipality.\n\nThe suburb is situated on part of an old Witwatersrand farm called \"Doornfontein\". It would be proclaimed as suburb on 18 May 1938 and was named after the land developer's son, Cyril Cooper.\n\nUp until approximately 2000 Cyrildene was a predominantly Jewish neighborhood. Unlike the old and now largely abandoned Chinatown in Newtown, which was largely made up of second or third generation South African Chinese, the new inhabitants of the Chinatown in Cyrildene are overwhelmingly first generation Chinese immigrants from mainland China. The Chinatown has a paifang (arch).\n\n"}
{"id": "23587334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23587334", "title": "David Bell (historian)", "text": "David Bell (historian)\n\nDavid Avrom Bell is an American historian specializing in French history.\n\nDavid Bell was born into a Jewish family New York City in 1961. He is the son of sociologist Daniel Bell and literary critic Pearl Kazin Bell (Alfred Kazin's sister).\n\nHe completed his A.B. in History and Literature at Harvard University in 1983, magna cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa. He completed his M.A. in History in 1987 and his Ph.D. in 1991, both at Princeton University. He then taught at Yale University from 1990 to 1996; Johns Hopkins University from 1996 to 2010, where he was Dean of Faculty beginning in 2007; and at Princeton University since 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126097", "title": "Detailed logarithmic timeline", "text": "Detailed logarithmic timeline\n\nThis timeline shows the whole history of the universe, the Earth, and mankind in one table. Each row is defined in \"years ago\", that is, years before the present date, with the earliest times at the top of the chart. In each table cell on the right, references to events or notable people are given, more or less in chronological order within the cell.\n\nEach row corresponds to a change in log(time before present) of about 0.1 (using log base 10). The dividing points are taken from the R′′20 Renard numbers.\n\nThe table is divided into sections with subtitles. Note that each such section contains about 68% of all the time from the beginning of the section until now.\n\nA logarithmic timeline can also be devised for events which should occur in the future, barring unforeseen circumstances and assuming that we can extrapolate into the future based on our science.\n\n"}
{"id": "44701366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44701366", "title": "Directed evolution (transhumanism)", "text": "Directed evolution (transhumanism)\n\nThe term directed evolution is used within the transhumanist community to refer to the idea of applying the principles of directed evolution and experimental evolution to the control of human evolution. In this sense, it is distinct from the use of the term in biochemistry, which refers only to the evolution of proteins and RNA. Maxwell J. Melhmanh has described directed evolution of humans as the Holy Grail of transhumanism.\nOxford philosopher Julian Savulescu wrote that:\nAccording to UCLA biophysicist Gregory Stock:\nRiccardo Campa, from the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies, wrote that \"self-directed evolution\" can be coupled with many different political, philosophical, and religious views.\n\nAndrew Askland, from the Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law claims that referring to transhumanism as directed evolution is problematic because evolution is ateleological and transhumanism is teleological.\n\nParticipant evolution is an alternative term that refers to the process of deliberately redesigning the human body and brain using technological means, rather than through the natural processes of mutation and natural selection, with the goal of removing \"biological limitations\" and human enhancement. The idea of participant evolution was first put forward by Manfred Clynes and Nathan S. Kline in the 1960s in their article \"Cyborgs and Space\", where they argued that the human species was already on a path of participant evolution. Science fiction writers have speculated what the next stage of such participant evolution will be.\n\nWhilst Clynes and Kline saw participant evolution as the process of creating cyborgs, the idea has been adopted and propounded by transhumanists who argue that individuals should have the choice of using human enhancement technologies on themselves and their children, to progressively become transhuman and ultimately posthuman, as part of a voluntary regimen of participant evolution.\n"}
{"id": "1500993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1500993", "title": "Edward Hall", "text": "Edward Hall\n\nEdward Hall or Halle (1497–1547), was an English lawyer, Member of Parliament, and historian, best known for his \"The Union of the Two Noble and Illustre Families of Lancastre and Yorke\", commonly known as \"Hall's Chronicle\".\n\nEdward Hall, born in 1497, was the son of John Hall (d. 22 February 1528) of Northall in Kynnersley, Shropshire, a London grocer and Merchant of the Staple who resided in the parish of St Mildred in the Poultry. The surname Hall appears in the records of the Worshipful Company of Grocers for several generations prior to Hall's birth, suggesting that members of the family had been London merchants for some time. Hall's father served as Warden of the Grocers in 1512.\n\nAccording to some sources, Hall's mother, Katherine Geddyng, was the daughter and coheir of Thomas Geddyng of Norfolk, while according to others she was the daughter of John Geddyng, great-grandson of William Geddyng of Lackford, Suffolk, and Mirabel Aspale, daughter and heiress of Sir John de Aspale. Katherine (née Geddying) Hall's burial on 19 June 1557 in the church of St Benet Sherehog was recorded by the diarist Henry Machyn. She appointed as executor of her will Sir William Garrard, and as supervisor Dame Joan Warren, the second wife of Sir Ralph Warren, Lord Mayor of London. According to some sources, Katherine was the 'Mistress Hall' who in 1555 was imprisoned in Newgate for her faith under Queen Mary Tudor, and with whom the religious reformer John Bradford corresponded.\nHall had a brother, William, who survived him, but no other known brothers or sisters.\n\nHall began his education at Eton. In 1514 he was admitted to King's College, Cambridge, graduating BA in 1518. At about the time of Hall's graduation from university, the second son of Robert Fabyan (d.1513) became apprentice to Hall's father, and according to Herman, it was perhaps through this connection that Hall developed what became a lifelong interest in chronicling the events of English history.\n\nHall was a student at Gray's Inn by 1521, and became a lawyer by profession. He was Autumn Reader at his Inn in 1533, and Lent Reader in 1540.\n\nAccording to Herman, Hall may have been first elected to Parliament as early as 1523. He was elected to represent Much Wenlock in 1529, and represented the borough again in 1539. In 1542, and again in 1545, he was elected for Bridgnorth.\n\nHall served as Common Serjeant of London from 17 March 1533 to 2 June 1535, and as Under-Sheriff from 2 June 1535 until his death.\n\nHall's best-known work, \"The Union of the Two Noble and Illustre Families of Lancastre and Yorke\", commonly called \"Hall's Chronicle\", was published by the printer Richard Grafton in 1548, the year after Hall's death. A revised edition (printed for Grafton by Richard Jugge) appeared in 1550. Both included a continuation from 1532 compiled by Grafton from the author's notes. The only complete modern edition, entitled \"Hall's Chronicle, Containing the History of England During the Reign of Henry IV and the Succeeding Monarchs to the End of the Reign of Henry VIII\", was prepared under the supervision of Sir Henry Ellis and published in 1809. A reprint was issued in 1965. In 1904 the concluding chapter dealing with the reign of Henry VIII was edited by Charles Whibley.\n\nThe \"Chronicle\" begins with the accession of Henry IV to the English throne in 1399; it follows the strife between the houses of Lancaster and York, and with Grafton's continuation carries the story down to the death of Henry VIII in 1547. Hall presents the policy of this king in a very favourable light and shows his own sympathy with the Protestants. He has a lawyer's respect for ceremonial of all kinds, and his pages are often adorned and encumbered with the pageantry and material garniture of the story.\n\nThe value of the \"Chronicle\" in its early stages is not great, but this increases when dealing with the reign of Henry VII and is very considerable for the reign of Henry VIII. To the historian it furnishes what is evidently the testimony of an eye-witness on several matters of importance which are neglected by other narrators; and to the student of literature it is of interest as one of the prime sources of Shakespeare's history plays.\n\nOn 22 June 1940 Alan Keen, a dealer in antiquarian books, discovered an extensively annotated copy of Hall's \"Chronicle\" among the contents of a library from outside London which he had just purchased. Keen considered that the marginal annotations, most of which are found in the chapters covering the reigns of Henry IV, Henry V and Henry VI, were made by Shakespeare. Keen published his findings in two journal articles, and in a book co-authored with Alan Lubbock in 1954, \"The Annotator\". After his death Keen left the volume in the hands of trustees, who placed it in the British Library, where until 2007 it was catalogued as Loan MS 61.\n\nThere is no evidence as to whether Hall ever married. His will, made in 1546–7, makes no mention of a wife or children, and the only family members named are his brother, William, whom he appoints as executor of his will, and his mother, whom he appoints as overseer. In his will he requested burial in the Greyfriars, London, but he was instead buried in the church of St Benet Sherehog, which was subsequently destroyed in the Great Fire of London and not rebuilt. He left all his books in French and English to his brother, William, and his manuscript of his chronicle to Richard Grafton, entrusting him with its publication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35139421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35139421", "title": "Enrique García Hernán", "text": "Enrique García Hernán\n\nProfessor Enrique García Hernán (Madrid 1964) is a Spanish historian of the culture of early modern Europe. His research examines the interaction of religious sentiment, political thought and international relations in the sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. It attempts to bridge the gap between the study of forms of cultural and intellectual expression and the realities of political, diplomatic and military organization. He is a Corresponding Fellow (\"Académico correspondiente\") of the Royal Academy of History (\"Real Academia de la Historia\"), member of the Board of Directors (\"Vocal\") of the Spanish Commission for Military History (\"la Comisión Española de Historia Militar\"), and Fellow (\"Académico\") of the Ambrosiana Academy of Milan (\"la Academia Ambrosiana de Milán\"). His current academic affiliation is as a research professor (\"Profesor de Investigación\") in the Institute of History, within the Center for Humanities and Social Sciences (\"Centro de Ciencias Sociales y Humanas\") at the Spanish National Research Council (\"Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas\" or ‘CSIC’). The Spanish National Research Council is the largest public institution dedicated to research in Spain and the third largest in Europe.\n\nDr García Hernán has two doctorates, one in ecclesiastical history from the Gregorian University of Rome, and one within the discipline of early modern history from the University Complutense of Madrid. He has published more than ten monograph studies (single-authored) and one joint-study with his brother, David García Hernán. In addition he has edited or co-edited nine books, and authored more than seventy articles in Spanish, English and Italian. He is currently supervising a number of doctoral students. He is one the editor of a new series of monograph studies dedicated to the international impact of Spain, entitled the Historia de España y su proyección internacional, which is published by \"Albatros Ediciones\" in Madrid.\n\nHis first research focused on Saint Francis Borgia and this project led to the publication of a major monograph on Borgia’s diplomatic efforts on behalf of the Papacy in 1571 and 1572. This project led him to study the great Mediterranean campaigns fought by the Spanish Monarchy and the Christian Holy League in the 1560s and 1570s. This interest resulted in a number of important and innovative studies, one on the Spanish Armada and the defense of the Mediterranean during the reign of Philip II (1556–1598) and one on the immediate circumstances after the Battle of Lepanto (7 October 1571). A number of highly regarded papers – for instance, on the diplomatic efforts to establish an alliance between the Holy League and Safavid Persia in the early 1570s; on the ‘messianic outlook’ of Pope Pius V (pontificate 1566-1572); on the campaigns that saw the conquest and loss of Tunis in 1573-74 – have resulted from these works. In turn, these interests in the Mediterranean have led to a number of research projects and have influenced the works of historians such as Beatriz Alonso Acero and Phillip Williams.\n\nDr García Hernán's other principal area of interest lies in the relationship between Ireland, the Spanish Monarchy and the Papacy in the sixteenth-, seventeenth- and eighteenth-centuries. Again, this line of ‘investigación’ can be traced back to the pontificate of Pius V. Dr García Hernán’s research has cast light on the complex web of diplomatic relations that sprung up after 1560; in particular it has led to the study of the negotiations between Madrid, Rome and the Gaelic nobles and aristocrats who came to be increasingly alienated by the Tudor regime in Ireland and who, correspondingly, looked to the Habsburgs of Spain as their natural protectors. This project has led to the forging of links between groups of historians and academics in Spain and Ireland. It has provided important new perspectives not only on the (often-tortuous) diplomatic exchanges between London, Dublin, Rome and Madrid, but also on the relative military strengths of the protagonists. In turn these insights have spawned a number of doctoral research projects, which have been brought to fruition by students such as Igor Pérez Tostado, Óscar Recio Morales, Diego Téllez Alarcia, Eduardo De Mesa and Cristina Bravo. The exploration of the vast archive holdings in Simancas, Madrid and Rome has made us aware of the presence of large numbers of Irish troops in Habsburg armies and fleets after the defeat of the Irish rebellion at the Battle of Kinsale (1601). This rebellion had been sponsored and assisted by Philip III of Spain (1598–1621). Dr García Hernán is working currently on the Mission of Ireland, a database with more than 35,000 documents detailing the ‘viatica’ of Irish priests instructed in Spain and sent to Ireland.\n\nProf García Hernán’s edited volumes of essays have sought to break down barriers between the various disciplines of the humanities and between the self-contained and isolated narratives of national history. They have also sought to re-integrate our understanding of developments in Spain with events in Italy, England and `Ireland.\n\nProf García Hernán is an academic adviser to the editors of the new military history of Spain, \"Historia Militar de España\", whose overall director is Hugo O´Donnell. At present five volumes have been published by Laberinto.\n\nA number of other projects have recently been completed - on the Cortes of Cadiz of 1812, War and Society in early modern Europe and the relationship between Poland, northern Europe and Spain in the early modern period.\n\nFor information on the research into links between Spain and Ireland in the early modern period, see the website: www.irishinspain.es\n\nAs the co-founder and editor of the series of a new series of monograph studies (Historia de España y su proyección internacional, mentioned above) Dr García Hernán welcomes proposals for studies that break down the barriers between national histories and the disciplines.\n\nDr García Hernán was appointed to the board of the \"Comisión Española de Historia Militar\" in 2006. In the following year he was elected to the \"Real Academia de Historia\". In 2010 he was made a fellow of the Ambrosiana Academy of Milan (\"la Academia Ambrosiana de Milán\").\n\n\n\nwith Igor Pérez Tostado, \"Irlanda y el Mundo Atlántico. Movilidad, participación e intercambio cultural\"; Albatros, Valencia 2010; pp. 355; .\n\n\nFinalist in the National Award for History 2007 (Premio Nacional de Historia 2007) for the book \"Consejo de Ambos Mundo. Vida y obra de Juan de Solórzano Pereira\", see above for details.\n\nPrize for the Outstanding Study of Military History 2002 (Premio Ejército de Tierra).\nGranted by: Ministerio de Defensa. Title of Book: \"Milicia General en la Edad Moderna: El batallón de Don Rafael de la Barreda y Figueroa\", see above for details.\n\nThe Roberto Bellarmino Prize for the Outstanding Doctorate in International History 1998 (Premio Internacional de Doctorado Roberto Bellarmino). Granted by: Universidad Gregoriana de Roma, for the best doctoral thesis: \"La acción diplomática de Francisco de Borja al servicio del pontificado, 1571-1572\", see above for details.)\n\nThe Premio Virgen del Mar 1994. Granted by: The Ministerio de Defensa. Book: \"La armada española en la monarquía de Felipe II y la defensa del Mediterráneo\", see above for details.)\n\nPrize for the Outstanding Study in Military History 1993 (Premio Ejército de Tierra). Granted by: Ministerio de Defensa. Title of Book: \"La proyección política-militar de la victoria de Lepanto\", see above for details.)\n\n"}
{"id": "7680986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7680986", "title": "Fu Ssu-nien", "text": "Fu Ssu-nien\n\nFu Ssu-nien (; 26 March 1896 – 20 December 1950), was a famous Chinese educator and linguist, and one of the leaders of the May Fourth Movement in 1919. He studied experimental psychology at University College London from 1920-23. He was also one of the creators of the Academia Sinica, and was named director of the Institute of History and Philology upon its founding in 1928.\n\nFu was born on 26 March 1896 in Shandong, immediately after the First Sino-Japanese War, a time when the traditional systems were being challenged and revolutions were about to happen.\n\nIn 1909, Fu entered the secondary school set up by Tianjin government, excelling in mathematics, English, and Chinese. In 1913, Fu was accepted by the preparatory school of Peking University where he ranked first upon graduation in humanities division.\n\nIn 1916, Fu went on to the Chinese Department of Peking University to pursue his bachelor's degree. During his time at the university, Fu gradually changed from a conservative to a radical. In 1919, Fu participated in the famous May Fourth Movement and was one of the major students leaders. On the morning of 4 May 1919, Fu led a group of approximate 3000 students to protest the Chinese government's weak response to the Treaty of Versailles, which ceded the Shandong province to Japan.\n\nIn 1920, Fu went to Europe to continue his education. His first stop was University College London. Fu registered in the department of Psychology and took most courses at undergraduate level. He also spent a considerable amount of time in medical school courses. In June 1923, Fu traveled to Berlin and studied at Berlin University because the high inflation in Germany after World War I gave him a favorable exchange rate. It seemed that Fu never intended to obtain a B.A degree at these overseas institutions. Instead, he advised his friends to utilize this rare chance to pursue as much learning as possible.\n\nIn Oct 1926, Fu accepted an offer from Sun Yat-sen University and joined the faculty of humanities and social science. He became the department head in 1928. On the national scene, he established the Institute of History and Philology (IHP) of Academia Sinica, and remained as director until his death.\n\nIn 1929, Fu moved the Institute of History and Philology to Peking and started to teach at Peking University, his alma mater. In 1945, Fu was appointed as acting president of Peking University at the age of 50. In 1946, his second year as the acting president, he excluded many \"turncoat\" professors who supported the Wang Jingwei government, a puppet government controlled by Japanese force during World War II. During his term, Fu also recruited many famous scholars at that time, such as Ji Xianlin and Zhu Guangqian.\n\nFu did not shy away from controversy. After organization of the path-breaking Yinxu excavations, he published his East Yi West Xia theory about the origin of prehistory culture in current China, 1933. This theory has not been accepted by later scholars, but Fu's approach and techniques were widely influential. He is known due to his pioneering historico-philological research of concepts \"nature\" \"xing\" 性 and \"destiny\" \"ming\" 命. Rather than making arguments based on philosophy, he developed interpretations proceeding from the archaic morphemes 生 and 令. His condemnation of the Chinese medicine \"guoyi\" as being not scientific remains a point of debate. Despite his own call for historical objectivity, Fu opposed the Japanese aggression with the quasi-historical claim that Manchuria and Mongolia were not entitled for independence from China.\n\nIn 1947, after witnessing the drastic deterioration of the economy, Fu published three famous articles calling for Soong's resignation of T. V. Soong. Soong resigned some days later due to mounting public pressure. In 1948, Fu attempted suicide but was saved because of the retreat of KMT forces in the civil war. Fu went to Taiwan in the earlier part of 1949. On 20 January 1949, he was appointed President of National Taiwan University. In July, Fu was accused of recruiting faculty members with communist backgrounds. An article published in a local newspaper said that National Taiwan University under Fu's leadership had turned into a base for communists. Despite Fu's deep belief in academic freedom, he was forced to compromise his beliefs with the political pressure of the day and fire those scholars alleged to have communist ties.\n\nIn December 1950, Fu died in the Provincial Assembly of Taiwan at the age of 55 due to hypertension. The Fu Ssu-nien Library of the Institute of History and Philology of the Academia Sinica in Taiwan was named in his honor.\n\n\"There are only 21 hours available per day because the remaining 3 hours are reserved for self-reflection.\"\n\nFamous Chinese scholar Hu Shi said that Fu Sinian is one of the best educators and charismatic leaders of his time.\n\n"}
{"id": "12271928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12271928", "title": "Gabriel Bucelin", "text": "Gabriel Bucelin\n\nGabriel Bucelin (also \"Gabriel Buzlin\", \"Gabriel Bincelint\", or \"Gabriel Bucelinus\") (29 December 1599, Diessenhofen, Thurgau – 9 June 1681, Weingarten) was a Benedictine polymath, Humanist, historical writer and cartographer.\n\nA scion of the distinguished line of Bucellini counts, Gabriel, at the age of thirteen, entered the Benedictine monastery at Weingarten. After a course in philosophy and theology at the Jesuit University of Dillingen he was ordained a priest on April 23, 1624. In the same year he was sent, as master of novices, to restore the primitive fervour and raise the standard of studies in the monastery of St. Trudpert in the Black Forest. In 1627 he became secretary to Abbott Franz Dietrich and to the Swabian Benedictine congregation. He filled the position of master of novices at Weingarten and professor of humanities at Feldkirch (1635), from which on the approach of the Swedish army he was forced to flee to Vienna, Venice, and finally Admont (1646). There he was appointed prior of St. John's monastery, Feldkirch (1651), where he remained until a few months before his death, when he returned to Weingarten.\n\nBucelin was a universal scholar and a very prolific writer, being the author of some fifty-three works on genealogy, world history, hagiography and church history. He also drew maps and plans. A large number of his works are still in manuscript in the state library at Stuttgart. Many of his works remained unpublished, perhaps because of the disruptions of war. His chief claim to contemporary fame lies in the fact that he was, if not the first, at least among the first authors to deal with the ecclesiastical history of Germany. Of his published works the most important are:\n\n\nBucelin was also the author of many works on the Benedictine Order and its most illustrious members, among them \"Aquila imperii benedictina\" (Venice, 1651), \"Annales Benedictini\" (Vienna 1655, Augsburg 1656) and \"Menologium benedictinum\" (Feldkirch, 1655).\n\n\"This article incorporates text from the 1913 \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" article \"Gabriel Bucelin\" by F.M. Rudge, a publication now in the public domain.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "59131164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59131164", "title": "Gary Will", "text": "Gary Will\n\nGary Will is a Canadian professional wrestling historian and writer.\n\nWill is best known for writing the book \"Wrestling Title Histories\" which is widely regarded as the most complete compilation of championship listings for professional wrestling. Many wrestling fans refer it as a \"Bible\". He wrote the first well known listing of deceased professional wrestlers, as noted on various websites. He is also known for his \"Canadian Pro Wrestling Page of Fame\", which honored professional wrestlers who are Canadian citizens, as opposed to the \"Canadian Wrestling Hall of Fame\", which honored any wrestler or wrestling associated person who made landmark contributions for wrestling in Canada. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31466668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31466668", "title": "George S. McMullen", "text": "George S. McMullen\n\nGeorge B. McMullen was an intuitive archaeologist and forensic remote viewer who claims that he has the ability to use paranormal psychic abilities to use objects to tune into scenes from the past. He claims that he has his strong extrasensory perception to locate ancient sites for archaeological digs, or describe context of artifacts. Scientific archaeologists tested his claims which revealed to be extreme accurated.\n\n\"The author is deeply indebted to Dr. J. Norman Emerson of the University of Toronto for his instruction and inspiration over a number of years; and especially to Dr. Emerson and his collaborator Mr. George McMullen for their experiments in intuitive archaeology at the Boys site which led to the discovery of the palisade and of the second house structure.\" (THE BOYS SITE: A PICKERING BRANCH VILLAGES IN ONTARIO COUNTY, p. iv-v)\n\nMcMullen is the author of One White Crow which was published in 1995 and describes his long life experience as intuitive archaeologist. McMullen is also the author of Running Bear published in 1996, Two Faces published in 1997, and Born Many Times published in 1999.\nHe died on June 4, 2008.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9872547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9872547", "title": "Germán Arciniegas", "text": "Germán Arciniegas\n\nGermán Arciniegas Angueyra (December 6, 1900 - November 30, 1999) was a Colombian historian, author and journalist who was known for his advocacy of educational and cultural issues, as well as his outspoken opposition to dictatorship. He also served as a college professor and held positions in the government, including Minister of Education and several ambassadorships.\n\nArciniegas was the son of Rafael Arciniegas Tavera, a farmer, and his wife Aurora Angueyra Figueredo. He had three brothers and four sisters. His father died young, leaving his mother struggling to support the family. His maternal great-grandfather was Perucho Figueredo, an early Cuban freedom fighter who wrote La Bayamesa, Cuba's national anthem. Both of Perucho's daughters fled the country when he was executed. Luz, the younger daughter, was married to a Cuban engineer who went to Colombia to help build a railroad line. It was there, amid the dangers of the jungle, that Germán's mother was born.\n\nAt the age of eighteen, he began studying law at the National University of Colombia. At that time he had already created two journals: \"Año Quinto\" (1916) and \"Voz de la Juventud\" (1917). While a student he founded and managed the magazine \"Universidad\" (1921). He collaborated with many well-known figures at all three periodicals, including Luis López de Mesa, José Vasconcelos, León de Greiff and José Juan Tablada, who introduced the haiku into Spanish literature via \"Universidad\". His love of journalism led him to establish and manage numerous cultural magazines throughout his life. In 1928, he joined El Tiempo, a daily newspaper in Bogotá, where he managed the editorial section, put together the Sunday Literary Supplement and wrote a weekly column, becoming the general manager in 1937. He would continue to contribute articles and opinion pieces to El Tiempo for the rest of his life, speaking out against drug trafficking, Marxist guerrillas and restrictive immigration policies.\n\nWith the assistance of Carlos Pellicer, he established the Federation of Colombian Students. The group opposed Jesuit influence in the nation's universities and held student carnivals which verged on riots. He narrowly missed being killed when a bullet grazed his head at one student rally. Their activism eventually helped to end the Conservative Party's grip on the government and, in 1933, led to the passage of university reforms, which gave students the right to elect their own rectors and have a representative in the legislature to act as their advocate; a position Arciniegas held for a time. For him, students were the axis around which all political and intellectual movements had turned throughout history. This gave rise to his first book \"El Estudiante de la Mesa Redonda\" (The Student of the Round Table, 1932), in which he speaks of history as a \"tavern\" with the students sitting at a single table, drinking, recounting their deeds and laughing at everybody else.\n\nHe continued his fight for students' rights during his brief tenures as Minister of Education in 1942 and 1945-46. During this time, he founded the Caro and Cuervo Institute and moved the Colombian National Museum to its current home in a former prison building.\n\nDuring World War II, he supported giving aid and asylum to refugees. This was in opposition to Luis López de Mesa, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who prohibited the entry of Jews into Colombia. Due to this resurgence of Conservative ideology in the 1940s, Arciniegas felt that he and his family were in danger and moved to the United States, taking advantage of an offer to teach at Columbia University. He lived in New York for ten years (1947–57). At this time, he wrote his most important and most often banned book, \"Entre la Libertad y el Miedo\" (Between Freedom and Fear, 1952). The work analyzes a critical period in Latin-America, when seven dictators were in power at the same time. He also criticized the U.S. State Department for its conciliatory behavior towards these regimes and, as a result, was detained for questioning several times after returning from trips abroad. \nThe publication and translation of the book was prohibited in at least ten countries. General Gustavo Rojas Pinilla, the President of Colombia, accused Arciniegas of being a Communist and ordered all of his books to be burnt. Rafael Trujillo, the dictator of the Dominican Republic, put Arciniegas on his hit list.\n\nIn terms of culture, Arciniegas strove to achieve and maintain a synthesis between the indigenous and the European. This approach was the driving force behind all of his diplomatic and political activities. He served as vice consul in London (1929), chancellor at the Colombian embassy in Argentina (1940) and as Ambassador to Italy (1959), Israel (1962), Venezuela (1966) and the Holy See (1976). In all of these positions, he acted as an advocate for the art and culture of America, which he perceived as extending from Alaska to Patagonia.\n\nIn 1992, he was appointed President of the \"National Commission for the Celebration of the Five-Hundredeth Anniversary of the Discovery of America\". He was summarily dismissed by then First-Lady Ana Milena Muñoz de Gaviria, who took over the commission herself; an action that generated much controversy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45245513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45245513", "title": "Henry Louis Gates Jr.", "text": "Henry Louis Gates Jr.\n\nHenry Louis \"Skip\" Gates Jr. (born September 16, 1950) is an American literary critic, teacher, historian, filmmaker and public intellectual who currently serves as the Alphonse Fletcher University Professor and Director of the Hutchins Center for African and African American Research at Harvard University. He discovered what are considered the first books by African-American writers, both women, and has published extensively on appreciating African-American literature as part of the Western canon.\n\nIn addition to producing and hosting previous series on the history and genealogy of prominent American figures, since 2012 Gates has been host for four seasons of the series \"Finding Your Roots\" on PBS. It combines the work of expert researchers in genealogy, history, and genetics historic research to tell guests about their ancestors' lives and histories.\n\nGates was born in Keyser, West Virginia, to Henry Louis Gates Sr. and his wife Pauline Augusta (Coleman) Gates. He grew up in neighboring Piedmont. His father worked in a paper mill and moonlighted as a janitor, while his mother cleaned houses, as described in his memoir \"Colored People\" (1994).\n\nHe has learned through contemporary research that his family is descended in part from the Yoruba people of west Africa. He also has European ancestry, and is connected to the distinctive multiracial West Virginia community of the Chestnut Ridge people. He is also of part Irish descent.\n\nAt the age of 14 Gates was injured playing touch football, fracturing the ball and socket joint of his hip, resulting in a slipped capital femoral epiphysis. The injury was misdiagnosed by a physician, who told Gates' mother that his problem was psychosomatic. When the physical damage finally healed, his right leg was two inches shorter than his left. Because of the injury, Gates now uses a cane to help him walk.\n\nGates graduated from Piedmont High School in 1968 and attended Potomac State College of West Virginia University. He completed his BA degree in history at Yale College, \"summa cum laude.\" The first African American to be awarded an Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Fellowship, Gates sailed on the \"Queen Elizabeth 2\" for England and University of Cambridge, where he studied English literature at Clare College, Cambridge and earned his PhD.\n\nGates married Sharon Lynn Adams in 1979. They had two daughters together before they divorced in 1999.\n\nAfter a month at Yale Law School, Gates withdrew from the program. In October 1975 he was hired by Charles Davis as a secretary in the Afro-American Studies department at Yale. In July 1976, Gates was promoted to the post of Lecturer in Afro-American Studies with the understanding that he would be promoted to assistant professor upon completion of his doctoral dissertation. Jointly appointed to assistant professorships in English and Afro-American Studies in 1979, Gates was promoted to associate professor in 1984. While at Yale, Gates guided Jodie Foster, who majored in African-American Literature at Yale with her thesis on Toni Morrison.\n\nIn 1984, Gates was recruited by Cornell University with an offer of tenure; Gates asked Yale if they would match Cornell's offer, but they declined. Gates moved to Cornell in 1985, where he taught until 1989. Following a two-year stay at Duke University, he was recruited to Harvard University in 1991. At Harvard, Gates teaches undergraduate and graduate courses as the Alphonse Fletcher University Professor, an endowed chair he was appointed to in 2006, and as a professor of English. Additionally, he is the Director of the Hutchins Center for African & African American Research.\n\nAs a literary theorist and critic, Gates has combined literary techniques of deconstruction with native African literary traditions; he draws on structuralism, post-structuralism, and semiotics to analyze texts and assess matters of identity politics. As a black intellectual and public figure, Gates has been an outspoken critic of the Eurocentric literary canon. He has insisted that black literature must be evaluated by the aesthetic criteria of its culture of origin, not criteria imported from Western or European cultural traditions that express a \"tone deafness to the black cultural voice\" and result in \"intellectual racism\". In his major scholarly work, \"The Signifying Monkey,\" a 1989 American Book Award winner, Gates expressed what might constitute a black cultural aesthetic. The work extended application of the concept of \"signifyin'\" to analysis of African-American works. \"Signifyin'\" refers to the significance of words that is based on context, and is accessible only to those who share the cultural values of a given speech community. It is rooted African-American literary criticism in the African-American vernacular tradition.\n\nWhile Gates has stressed the need for greater recognition of black literature and black culture, he does not advocate a \"separatist\" black canon. Rather, he works for greater recognition of black works and their integration into a larger, pluralistic canon. He has affirmed the value of the Western tradition, but has envisioned a more inclusive canon of diverse works sharing common cultural connections: \"Every black American text must confess to a complex ancestry, one high and low (that is, literary and vernacular) but also one white and black ... there can be no doubt that white texts inform and influence black texts (and \"vice versa\"), so that a thoroughly integrated canon of American literature is not only politically sound, it is intellectually sound as well.\"\n\nGates has argued that a separatist, Afrocentric education perpetuates racist stereotypes. He maintains that it is \"ridiculous\" to think that only blacks should be scholars of African and African-American literature. He argues, \"It can't be real as a subject if you have to look like the subject to be an expert in the subject, adding, \"It's as ridiculous as if someone said I couldn't appreciate Shakespeare because I'm not Anglo-Saxon. I think it's vulgar and racist whether it comes out of a black mouth or a white mouth.\"\n\nAs a mediator between those advocating separatism and those believing in a Western canon, Gates has been criticized by both. Some critics suggest that adding black literature will diminish the value of the Western canon, while separatists say that Gates is too accommodating to the dominant white culture in his advocacy of integration of the canon. Gates has been criticized by John Henrik Clarke, Molefi Asante and the controversial Maulana Karenga, each of whom has been questioned by others in academia.\n\nAs a literary historian committed to the preservation and study of historical texts, Gates has been integral to the Black Periodical Literature Project, a digital archive of black newspapers and magazines created with financial assistance from the National Endowment for the Humanities. To build Harvard's visual, documentary, and literary archives of African-American texts, Gates arranged for the purchase of \"The Image of the Black in Western Art,\" a collection assembled by Dominique de Ménil in Houston.\n\nAs a result of research as a MacArthur Fellow, Gates discovered \"Our Nig\" by Harriet E. Wilson, written in 1859 and now considered the first novel in the United States written by a black person. He acquired and authenticated the manuscript of \"The Bondwoman's Narrative\" by Hannah Crafts, a novel from the same period that scholars believe may have been written as early as 1853. It would have precedence as the first-known novel written by a black person in the United States. (Note: \"Clotel\" (1853) is recognized as the first novel published by an African American but William Wells Brown wrote and published it in London.) \"The Bondwoman's Narrative\" was first published in 2002 and became a bestseller.\n\nAs a prominent black intellectual, Gates has concentrated on building academic institutions to study black culture. Additionally, he has worked to bring about social, educational, and intellectual equality for black Americans. His writing includes pieces in \"The New York Times\" that defend rap music, and an article in \"Sports Illustrated\" that criticizes black youth culture for glorifying basketball over education. In 1992, he received a George Polk Award for his social commentary in \"The New York Times.\" Gates' prominence has led to his being called as a witness on behalf of the controversial Florida rap group 2 Live Crew in an obscenity case. He argued that the material, which the government charged was profane, had important roots in African American Vernacular English, games, and literary traditions, and should be protected.\n\nAsked by National Endowment for the Humanities Chairman Bruce Cole to describe his work, Gates responded: \"I would say I'm a literary critic. That's the first descriptor that comes to mind. After that I would say I was a teacher. Both would be just as important.\" After his 2003 NEH lecture, Gates published his 2003 book, \"The Trials of Phillis Wheatley.\"\n\nIn 1995 Gates presented a program in the BBC series \"Great Railway Journeys\" (produced in association with PBS). The program documents a 3,000-mile journey Gates took through Zimbabwe, Zambia and Tanzania, with his then-wife Sharon Adams and daughters Liza and Meggie Gates. This trip came 25 years after Gates worked at a hospital in Kilimatinde near Dodoma, Tanzania, as a 19-year-old pre-medical student at Yale University.\n\nIn September 1995, Gates read a five-part abridgement (by Margaret Busby) of his memoir \"Colored People\" on BBC Radio 4.\n\nGates was the host and co-producer of \"African American Lives\" (2006) and \"African American Lives 2\" (2008) in which the lineage of more than a dozen notable African Americans was traced using genealogical and historic resources, as well as genealogical DNA testing. In the first series, Gates learned that he has 50% European ancestry and 50% African ancestry, He had known of some European ancestry but was surprised to learn the high proportion; he also learned that he was descended from John Redman, a mulatto veteran in New England of the American Revolutionary War. Gates has joined the Sons of the American Revolution. In the series, he discussed findings with guests about their complex ancestries.\n\nIn the second season, Gates learned that he is part of a genetic subgroup possibly descended from or related to the fourth-century Irish king Niall of the Nine Hostages. He also learned that one of his African ancestors includes a Yoruba man who was trafficked to America from Ouidah in present-day Republic of Benin. The two series demonstrated the many strands of heritage and history among African Americans.\n\nGates hosted \"Faces of America\", a four-part series presented by PBS in 2010. This program examined the genealogy of 12 North Americans of diverse ancestry: Elizabeth Alexander, Mario Batali, Stephen Colbert, Louise Erdrich, Malcolm Gladwell, Eva Longoria, Yo-Yo Ma, Mike Nichols, Queen Noor of Jordan, Mehmet Oz, Meryl Streep, and Kristi Yamaguchi.\n\nSince 1995, Gates has been the jury chair for the Anisfield-Wolf Book Award, which honors written works that contribute to society's understanding of racism and the diversity of human culture. Gates was an Anisfield-Wolf prize winner in 1989 for \"The Schomburg Library of Women Writers\".\n\nSince 2012 he has hosted a PBS TV series, called \"Finding Your Roots – with Henry Louis Gates, Jr.\". The second season of the series, featuring 30 prominent guests across 10 episodes, with Gates as the narrator, interviewer, and genealogical investigator, aired on PBS in fall 2014. The show's third season was postponed after it was discovered that actor Ben Affleck had persuaded Gates to omit information about his slave-owning ancestors. \"Finding Your Roots\" resumed in January 2016.\n\nGates's critically acclaimed six-part PBS documentary series, \",\" traced 500 years of African-American history to the second inauguration of President Barack Obama. Gates wrote, executive produced, and hosted the series, which earned the 2013 Peabody Award and NAACP Image Award.\n\nIn 2010, Gates wrote an op-ed in \"The New York Times\" that discussed the role played by Africans in the slave trade. In an article for \"Newsweek\", journalist Lisa Miller reported on the reaction to Gates' article:\n\nLolita Buckner Inniss, a professor at the Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, wrote a letter to \"The New York Times\" in response to the Gates' piece. She argued that regardless of who did the capturing, it was white people who created the market for African slaves and perpetuated the practice even after the import trade was banned. \"Up until that recent piece, people would have thought of him as someone who took a cautious and nuanced approach to questions like reparations.\" Gates has such an eminent reputation, she said, and \"so much gravitas. Many of us were troubled.\"\n\nGates' op-ed begins and ends with the observation that it is very difficult to decide whether or not to give reparations to the descendants of American slaves, whether they should receive compensation for their ancestors' unpaid labor and lack of rights. Gates also notes that it is equally difficult to decide who should get such reparations and who should pay them, as slavery was legal under the laws of the colonies and the United States.\n\nOn July 16, 2009, Gates returned home from a trip to China to find the door to his house jammed. His driver attempted to help him gain entrance. A passerby called police reporting a possible break-in after reporting to 911 \"an individual\" forcing the front door open. A Cambridge police officer was dispatched. The confrontation resulted in Gates being arrested and charged with disorderly conduct. Prosecutors later dropped the charges. The incident spurred a politically charged exchange of views about race relations and law enforcement throughout the United States. The arrest attracted national attention after U.S. President Barack Obama declared that the Cambridge police \"acted stupidly\" in arresting the 59-year-old Gates. Obama eventually extended an invitation to both Gates and the officer involved to share a beer with him at the White House.\n\nOn March 9, 2010, Gates claimed on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" that he, Sgt. James Crowley, the arresting officer in the Cambridge incident, and Jonathan Johnson (Deputy Comptroller) all share a common ancestor - an ancient Irish king, Niall of the Nine Hostages.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "748853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=748853", "title": "History (U.S. TV network)", "text": "History (U.S. TV network)\n\nHistory (originally The History Channel from 1995 to 2008) is a history-based digital cable and satellite television network that is owned by A&E Networks, a joint venture between the Hearst Communications and the Disney–ABC Television Group division of the Walt Disney Company. In addition to its self-named flagship channel, History provides sister channels such as History en Español (Spanish language) and Military History.\n\nThe channel originally broadcast documentary programs and historical fiction series. More recently, it has channel drifted to mostly broadcast various reality television series such as \"Pawn Stars\", \"Ax Men\", and other nonhistorical content. The network is criticized by many scientists, historians, and skeptics for broadcasting pseudodocumentaries and unsubstantiated and sensational investigative programming, such as \"Ancient Aliens\", \"UFO Hunters\", \"Brad Meltzer's Decoded\", and the \"Nostradamus Effect\".\n\nAs of February 2015, around 96,149,000 American households (82.6% of households with television) receive the network's flagship channel, History. International localized versions of History are available, in various forms, in India, Canada, Europe, Australia, the Middle East, Africa, and Latin America. The first European version was launched in Scandinavia in 1997 by Viasat, which now operates its own channel, Viasat History.\n\nHistory was launched on January 1, 1995, as The History Channel, its original format focused entirely on historical series and specials.\nOn February 16, 2008, a new logo was launched on the U.S. network as part of a rebranding effort. While the trademark \"H\" was kept, the triangle shape on the left acts as a play button for animation and flyouts during commercials and shows. On March 20, 2008, as part of that same rebranding effort, The History Channel dropped \"The\" and \"Channel\" from its name to become simply \"History\".\n\nOn June 1, 2015, the History logo was slightly updated, completely removing the triangle shape on the left.\n\nProgramming on History has covered a wide range of historical periods and topics, while similar themed topics are often organized into themed weeks or daily marathons. Subjects include warfare, inventions, aviation, mechanical and civil engineering, technology, mythical creatures, monsters, unidentified flying objects, conspiracy theories, aliens, religious beliefs, disaster scenarios, apocalyptic \"after man\" scenarios, doomsday, and 2012 superstitions. Programming also includes mainstream reality television-style shows involving truck drivers, alligator hunters, pawn stores, antique and collectible \"pickers\", car restorers, photography, and others. Occasionally, some programs compare contemporary culture and technology with that of the past.\nOn March 3, 2013, History channel premiered its first original series, \"Vikings\".\n\nDuring the 1990s, History was jokingly referred to as \"The Hitler Channel\" for its extensive coverage of World War II. Much of its military-themed programming has been shifted to its sister network Military History.\n\nThe network has also been criticized for having a bias towards U.S. history. Another former sister network, History International, more extensively covered history outside the US until in 2011, when it was rebranded as History 2 and started broadcasting more material that had to do with US history.\n\nThe network was also criticized by Stanley Kutner for airing the series \"The Men Who Killed Kennedy\" in 2003. Kutner was one of three historians commissioned to review the documentary, which the channel disavowed and never aired again. Programs such as \"Modern Marvels\" have been praised for their presentation of detailed information in an entertaining format.\n\nSome of the network's series, including \"Ice Road Truckers\", \"Ax Men\", and \"Pawn Stars\", garnered increased viewership ratings in the United States, while receiving criticism over the series' nonhistorical nature. U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley is a critic of the channel and its lack of historical or educational programming, showing particular disdain for the latter two programs.\n\nForbes.com staffer Alex Knapp writes, \"ideally\", \"The History Channel shouldn't run stuff like this 'ancient astronaut' nonsense,\" \"Forbes\" contributor Brad Lockwood criticized the channel's addition of \"programs devoted to monsters, aliens, and conspiracies\" attributing a perceived intent of boosting ratings as propelling the network to feature a focus on pseudoarchaeology instead of facts. Knapp refers readers to the \"Bad Archaeology\" website's founder Keith Fitzpatrick-Matthews who comments, \"I find it incredible and frightening that a worldwide distributed television channel ... can broadcast such rubbish as Ancient Aliens.\" Archaeologist Kenneth Feder, author of \"Frauds, Myths, and Mysteries: Science and Pseudoscience in Archaeology\", called the channel's hosting the ancient astronaut theory, \"execrable bullshit\".\n\nIn his book \"2012: It's Not the End of the World\", Peter Lemesurier describes the channel's \"Nostradamus\" series, in which he was invited to participate, as \"largely fiction\" and \"lurid nonsense\". He also lists numerous suggestions made in its films on the alleged Mayan \"end of the world\" and the \"rare\" galactic alignment that was supposed by John Major Jenkins to accompany it in 2012, while Jenkins himself has described \"Decoding the Past\" as \"45 minutes of unabashed doomsday hype and the worst kind of inane sensationalism\".\n\nIn December 2011, Politifact gave the History Channel's claim that the United States Congress stayed open on Christmas Day for most of its first 67 years of existence a \"pants on fire\" rating, the lowest of its ratings, noting that its own research showed that both the Senate and the House had only convened once in those 67 years on a Christmas Day and adding that, since there's a one in seven chance of Christmas falling on a Sunday (when Congress did not meet in order to attend church), the claim that they would have convened almost every Christmas is \"ridiculous\". The claim had first been broadcast on the History Channel program \"Christmas Unwrapped – The History of Christmas\" before being subsequently picked up by the American Civil Liberties Union's website on the \"Origins of Christmas\" and by the Comedy Central series \"The Daily Show\". \"Daily Show\" host Jon Stewart responded the next day by stating it was their fault for trusting the History Channel and satirized a clip from the History Channel about UFOs and Nazis by stating, \"The next thing you know we'll all find out the Nazis did not employ alien technology in their quest for world domination.\"\n\nThe History Channel was also singled out for ridicule by \"Smithsonian\" magazine. The article took issue with the show \"Ancient Aliens\" for postulating the \"idea that aliens caused the extinction of nonavian dinosaurs\". The online magazine \"Cracked\" also lampooned the channel for its strange definition of history. \"Cracked\" singled out the programs \"UFO Hunters\" and \"Ancient Aliens\" as being the very definition of nonhistory by presenting pseudoscience and pseudohistory.\n\nIn 2017, a History Channel documentary, \"\", proposed that a photograph in the National Archives of Jaluit Atoll in the Marshall Islands was actually a picture of a captured Earhart and Noonan. The picture showed a Caucasian male on a dock who appeared to look like Noonan and a woman sitting on the dock, but facing away from the camera, who was judged to have a physique and haircut resembling Earhart's. The documentary theorizes that the photo was taken after Earhart and Noonan crashed at Mili Atoll. The documentary also said that physical evidence recovered from Mili matches pieces that could have fallen off an Electra during a crash or subsequent overland move to a barge. \"The Lost Evidence\" proposed that a Japanese ship seen in the photograph was the \"Koshu Maru\", a Japanese military ship.\n\n\"The Lost Evidence\" was quickly discredited, however, after Japanese blogger Kota Yamano found the original source of the photograph in the archives in the National Diet Library Digital Collection. The original source of the photo was a Japanese travel guide published in October 1935, implying that the photograph was taken in 1935 or before, thus would be unrelated to Earhart and Noonan's 1937 disappearance. Additionally, the researcher who discovered the photo also identified the ship in the right of the photo as another ship called \"Koshu\" seized by Allied Japanese forces in World War I and not the \"Koshu Maru\".\n\nResearcher Ben Radford performed a detailed analysis of the mistakes made by \"The History Channel\" in building their documentary on bad photographic evidence. In his \"Skeptical Inquirer\" article \"A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Emmys: An Amelia Earhart Special (Non) Mystery Post-Mortem\", critiquing the network's lack of professionalism, Radford said: \"Given that the photograph's provenance was established—and thus the key premise of the show discredited—in about half an hour of Google searching, it will be interesting to see what world-class expertise ... the History Channel will bring to their reinvestigation of Earhart's disappearance.\" On episode 35 of his \"Squaring the Strange\" podcast, released December 7, 2017, Radford reminded listeners that in excess of four months had passed without an apology or explanation from the History Channel as to \"how their research went so horribly wrong\".\n\n\n\nThe History Channel (as it was then known) was not initially related to a similar Canadian service, History Television, which launched in 1997. During the Canadian channel's first several years of operation, despite sharing a similar programming focus, the channels rarely if ever shared programming. Indeed, the phrase \"Not available in Canada\" became a \"de facto\" slogan for the U.S. channel in its early years as a result of its use in promotional ads on American channels that were imported to Canadian pay television providers, particularly A&E.\n\nAs late as the late 2000s, flagship History (U.S.) series were slow to reach Canadian viewers (if they aired in that country at all); \"Ice Road Truckers\" debuted in 2007, but did not join the History Television schedule until early 2009. However, the relationship between the two has improved since then. On May 30, 2012, History Television's current owner, Shaw Media, announced that it would rebrand the channel as a Canadian version of History in the fall of 2012, through a licensing agreement with A+E Networks. History Television relaunched as History on August 12, 2012; shortly thereafter, another Shaw-owned specialty channel was relaunched as a Canadian version of H2.\n\nOn October 21, 2014, Corus Entertainment reached an agreement to acquire Canadian French-language rights to History programming for its own channel, Historia. On March 9, 2015, the network was relaunched under History's logo and branding, although the network still carries the Historia name. Historia was previously owned as a joint venture between Shaw and Astral Media (merged with Bell Media in 2013), which made it a sister to History; Corus purchased the network in 2013.\n\nOn April 1, 2016, Corus Entertainment acquired Shaw Media, and as a result, now co-owns both History Canada and the Canadian English-language rights to the History library of original programming with Historia and the Canadian French-language rights to the History library of original programming.\n\nThe British version launched in November, 1995, and arrived in Ireland on November 1, 1999.\n\nThe German version launched on November 14, 2004, and is operated by The History Channel Germany GmbH & Co. KG, a joint venture between A+E Networks and NBC Universal Global Networks Germany.\n\nThe Italian version was launched on July 31, 2003 as a joint venture of A&E Networks and Fox International Channels Italy; then it became a sole venture of A&E Networks in 2012.\n\nThe History Channel is available in Spain and Portugal though cable, satellite, and IPTV platforms, as well as streaming media under the brand Canal de Historia. The History Channel Iberia is a joint venture between A+E Networks and AMC Networks International Iberia.\n\nThe Dutch version has launched on May 1, 2007. This version is distributed by A&E Networks Benelux. In January 2008, History HD was launched in the Netherlands. It is available on cable providers Telenet and Ziggo. It is also available on IPTV service KPN.\n\nA Polish version was launched on April 9, 2008. It is available on cable providers Aster, Dialog, Toya, and UPC Polska, and also through satellite television (with its HD version carried on the n platform since June 1, 2012) and an SD version on Cyfra+ since November 2, 2009).\n\nA Scandinavian version was first launched in September 1997, broadcasting for three and later four hours a day on the analogue Viasat platform. Initially time-sharing with TV1000 Cinema, it was later moved to the Swedish TV8 channel and continued broadcasting there until November 2004. When History channel announced their own 24-hour pan-European channel, Viasat launched its own history-oriented channel, Viasat History, in the Nordic region, but with no original programming. On February 1, 2007, the History Channel returned to Sweden and also Denmark, Norway, Finland when the pan-European version was launched as a standalone channel on the Canal Digital satellite platform and later through cable operator Com hem. The History Channel launched on February 1, 2007, on the Canal Digital DTH satellite package for viewers in Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland. The channel is being launched by The History Channel UK, A&E’s joint venture with BSkyB. Although it broadcasts in English with local subtitles, the channel is scheduled separately from the UK version.\n\nThe History Channel started its operations in India in late 2003 with 21st Century Fox's STAR TV as its sales partner, managed by National Geographic until November 21, 2008. The History Channel India closed down on November 21, 2008. In 2011, History was granted permission to relaunch services in India. A joint venture of A&E Networks and TV18 relaunched History TV 18 in India in eight languages in 2014. A joint venture of AETN and Astro All Asia Networks launched the History Channel in Singapore, Hong Kong, Thailand, the Philippines, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, and Brunei in the second and third quarters of 2007, and in Taiwan and China by the end of the year. Some other Asian countries, such as Kuwait, Israel, and Japan, have their own versions of the network. On September 1, 2008, History Channel Asia was officially launched in Singapore and Hong Kong followed by and the Philippines.\n\nThe South Korean version of History Channel was launched on September 22, 2017, replacing the Southeast version that was previously transmitted. After the launch, A+E networks Korea launched an original series program called Talk&Drink Club (말술클럽).\n\nThe Latin American version was launched in 2001. It is owned by A&E and controlled in the region by HBO Latin America Group. It airs U.S. programming, translated to Spanish or Portuguese or in English with Spanish or Portuguese subtitles. Also, it develops some Latin American programming in Spanish.\n\nThe History channel is part of the DSTV satellite TV package provided by MultiChoice.DSTV is owned by Naspers (Nasionale Pers, which translates as National Press). After the appointment of Calvo Mawela as CEO of Multichoice, which owns DSTV, the History Channel has become increasingly politicised toward slanted South African history reflecting the view of the Marxist leaning ANC government of South Africa. No alternative view of the Sharpeville massacre nor the fact that Nelson Mandela was convicted of terrorism, admitting to 156 acts himself, is presented for a balanced view. The CEO, Calvo Mawela, is related to Gwede Mantashe by marriage to Mantashe's daughter. Mantase is the former Secretary General and present National Chairperson of the African National Congress.\n\n"}
{"id": "16052796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16052796", "title": "Illyrian warfare", "text": "Illyrian warfare\n\nThe history of Illyrian warfare spans from the beginning of the 2nd millennium BC up to the 1st century AD in the region of Illyria and in southern Italy where the Iapygian civilization flourished.\n\nIt concerns the armed conflicts of the Illyrian tribes and their kingdoms in the Balkans in Italy as well as pirate activity in Mediterranean. Apart from conflicts between Illyrians and neighboring nations and tribes, numerous wars were recorded among Illyrian tribes themselves.\n\nIllyrians were renowned warriors, according to ancient sources. They were known as skilled craftsmen and shipbuilders in ancient times and controlled much of the Adriatic and Ionian Sea using their numerous warships. Illyrians had effective weapons such as the sica, a curved-tip sword that originated in Illyria and was eventually adopted all over the Balkans and used later by the Romans.\n\nInstances of Illyrians engaged in armed conflict occurred in Greek mythology and specifically in the legend of Cadmus and Harmonia, where Cadmus led the Illyrian Enchelii in a victorious campaign against the Illyrians after a divine advice from the Oracle. If the legend is true this war would have occurred around 2000 BC, the time when Cadmus has been claimed to have lived.\n\nIllyrian tribes were reluctant to help each other in times of war and even fought amongst each other and they sometimes allied with the neighboring Romans and Greeks: These conflicts happened because of land, pastures and areas of natural substances such as iron and salt. The Romans, before they conquered Illyria, were involved in tribal conflicts and used them to their advantage. The most known incident is the involvement of the Romans in a war between the Dalmatians and the Liburnians over Promona, which in the end were encouraged to take peace. Commonly the Romans were ordered to act as referees in their bloody fights. The tribe of Autariatae fought against the Ardiaei for control of valuable salt mines. The Ardiaei were notorious before being defeated by the Romans. The Daorsi had suffered attacks from the Delmatae to the extent that they requested Roman aid.\n\nThe earliest recorded Illyrian Kingdom was that of the Enchele in the 8th century BC. The Enchele held dominance for two centuries until their state crumbled from the start of the 6th century BC. After the Enchelii the Taulanti formed their own state in the 7th century BC. The Autariatae under Pleurias (337 BC) were a kingdom. The Kingdom of the Ardiaei began at 230 BC and ended at 167 BC. The most notable Illyrian kingdoms and dynasties were those of Bardyllis of the Dardani and of Agron of the Ardiaei who created the last and best-known Illyrian kingdom. Agron ruled over the Ardiaei and had extended his rule to other tribes as well. As for the Dardanians, they always had separate domains from the rest of the Illyrians.\n\nThe Illyrian kingdoms were composed of small areas within region of Illyria. The exact extent of even the most prominent ones remains unknown. Only the Romans ruled the entire region. The internal organization of the south Illyrian kingdoms points to imitation of their neighboring Greek kingdoms and influence from the Greek and Hellenistic world in the growth of their urban centers. Polybius gives as an image of society within an Illyrian kingdom as peasant infantry fought under aristocrats which he calls in Greek \"Polydynastae\" (Greek: Πολυδυνάστες) where each one controlled a town within the kingdom. The monarchy was established on hereditary lines and Illyrian rulers used marriages as a means of alliance with other powers. Pliny (23–79 AD) writes that the people that formed the nucleus of the Illyrian kingdom were 'Illyrians proper' or Illyrii Proprie Dicti. They were the Taulantii, the Pleraei, the Endirudini, Sasaei, Grabaei and the Labeatae. These later joined to form the Docleatae.\n\nNavigable skills and mobility of the Liburnians on their swift ships, the Liburna allowed them to be present, very early, not only along the Eastern Adriatic coast, they reached also the opposite, western, Italic coast. This process started during great Pannonian-Adriatic movements and migrations at the end of the Bronze Age, from the 12th to 10th century BC. In the Iron Age, they were already in the Italic coast, establishing colonies in Apulia and especially in Picenum, where specific Iron Age cultures developed.\n\nFrom the 9th to the 6th century BC there was certain koine – cultural unity in the Adriatic, with the general Liburninan seal, whose naval supremacy meant both political and economical authority through a several centuries. Some similar toponyms attested not only Liburnian but also other Illyrian migrations to the central and south Italy, respectively Apulia and Picenum.\n\nIn the 9th century BC their ruled the inner Adriatic sea and in the first half of the 8th century BC they expanded southwards. According to Strabo, the Liburnians became masters of island of Corcyra, making it their most southern outpost, by which they controlled the passage into the Adriatic Sea. In 735 BC, they abandoned it, under pressure of Corinthian ruler Hersikrates, during the period of Corinthian expansion to South Italy, Sicily and the Ionian Sea. However, their position in the Adriatic Sea was still strong in the next few centuries. Corinth was the first that went up against the Liburnians. The Bacchiade expelled the Liburni and the Eretrians from Corcyra. About 625 BC, the Taulantii asked for the aid of Corinth and Corcyra against the Liburni. The Greeks were victorious.\n\nLiburnian control of the Adriatic Sea coasts started to decrease in the 6th century BC.\nAccording to Pliny the Elder, the Liburnians lost supremacy in the Western Adriatic coast due to invasion of the Umbri and the Gauls, obviously caused by strengthening and expansion of the Etruscan union in the 6th century BC, whose rich material presence in the basin of Po river, undoubtedly meant weakening of the Liburnian thalassocracy influence in the north-west of Adriatic. Celtic breaks to the Italian peninsula, after 400 BC, significantly changed ethnic and political picture there, it directly imperiled remaining Liburnian possessions on the western coast.\n\nUnlike at the western Adriatic coast, Celtic raids to the narrow Liburnian region at the eastern Adriatic coast were peripheral in geographical meaning. Despite of recorded material exchange, Celtic archaeological forms are marginal and secondary in regions settled by Histri, Iapodes, Dalmatae and are especially rare in Liburnian Iron Age heritage.\n\nThe Iapygian-Tarentine Wars were a set of conflicts and wars between the Greek colony of Taras (Taranto) and the three Iapygian peoples, Messapians, Peucetii and Daunians.\n\nConflicts started immediately after the foundation of Tars in 706 BC over domination of the fertile adjacent plains in southern Italy. The expansion of Taranto was limited to the coast because of the resistance of the populations of inner Apulia. In 473 BC, Taranto signed an alliance with Rhegion, to counter the Messapii, Peuceti, and Lucanians, but the joint armies of the Tarentines and Rhegines were defeated near \"Kailìa\" (modern Ceglie), in what Herodotus claims to be the greatest slaughter of Greeks in his knowledge, with 3,000 Reggians and uncountable Tarentines killed. In 466 BC, Taranto was again defeated by the Iapyges; according to Aristotle, who praises its government, there were so many aristocrats killed that the democratic party was able to get the power, to remove the monarchy, inaugurate a democracy, and expel the Pythagoreans.\n\nIn c.440 BC the Messapian city-state of Brindisi entered into an alliance with Thurii. The Brindisi-Thurri army had a leadership advantage in the form of Cleandridas, an exiled Spartan general who had been banished from the Peloponnese for accepting an Athenian bribe as an advisor of the Spartan king Pleistoanax. Taranto supported the Peloponnesian side against Athens in the Peloponnesian War, refused anchorage and water to Athens in 415 BC, and even sent ships to help the Peloponnesians, after the Athenian disaster in Sicily. On the other side, Athens supported the Messapians, in order to counter Taranto power.\n\nAfter 330 BC the Messapians joined forces with the Tarentines against an even greater force, that of Rome. The alliances with Taras and with Cleonimus of Sparta in 304 BC was an anti-Roman campaign. Thus towards the end of the fourth century Rome had become a common enemy for both the Iapygians and the Tarentines, even as far as ending the prolonged battles and causing them to make an alliance.\n\nIn the 4th century BC Bardyllis became king of the Illyrians and creator of a new dynasty after overthrowing Sirras the previous Illyrian king who had entered in a peace treaty over the control of Lyncestis. Bardyllis succeeded in bringing various tribes into a single organisation and soon became a formidable power in the Balkans, resulting in a change of relations with Macedonia. Using new war tactics in 393 BC the Illyrians won a decisive battle against Amyntas III, expelling him and ruling Macedonia through a puppet king. in 392 BC Amyntas III allied himself with the Thessalians and took Macedonia under his rule, taking it from the Dardanians. After continuous invasions Bardyllis forced the Macedonians to pay him an annual tribute in 372 BC.\n\nIn 385 BC Bardyllis raided Epirus which was under Molossian rule. This time the Illyrians were allied with and aided by Dionysius of Syracuse to place Alcetas, who was a refugee in his court, to the throne. Dionysius planned to control all the Ionian Sea. Sparta had intervened as soon as the events became known and expelled the Illyrians who were led by Bardyllis. Despite being aided by 2000 Greek hoplites and five hundred suits of Greek armour, the Illyrians were defeated by the Spartans led by Agesilaus but not before ravaging the region and killing 15,000 Molossians. Thus their attempt to control Epirus failed. In 360 BC, another Illyrian attack forced the Molossian king Arymbas to evacuate his non-combatant population to Aetolia and let the Illyrians loot freely. The stratagem worked and the Molossians fell upon the Illyrians who were encumbered with booty and defeated them. In the same year Arymbas of the Mollosians defeats the Illyrians after they raided and looted Epirus.\n\nIn 360 BC the southern Paeonian tribes launched raids against Macedonia in support of an Illyrian invasion. In 359 BC Bardyllis won a decisive battle against the Macedonian king Perdiccas III in which the king himself was killed along with 4,000 of his soldiers and the Illyrians occupied the cities of upper Macedonia.\nThe Macedonian king's attempt to reconquer upper Macedonia had failed.\n\nFollowing the disastrous defeat of the Macedonians by Bardyllis, when king Philip took control of Macedonian throne in 358 BC, he reaffirmed the treaty with the Illyrians, marrying the Illyrian princess Audata, probably the daughter or the niece of Bardyllis. This gave Philip valuable time to gather his forces and to defeat the Illyrians, who were still under Bardyllis, in the decisive Erigon Valley battle by killing about 7,000 and eliminating the Illyrian menace for some time. In this battle Bardyllis himself was killed at the age of 90 after Philip II refused a peace treaty offered by the Illyrians. In 335 BC the southern Illyrian states were all subjected by Alexander the Great and only at the end of the 4th century BC won their independence.\n\nIn 358 BC Phillip of Macedon defeated Bardyllis, Diodorus Siculus (1st century BC) writes this of the event;\n\"And at first for a long while the battle was evenly poised because of the exceeding gallantry displayed on both sides, and as many were slain and still more wounded, the fortune of battle vacillated first one way then the other, being constantly swayed by the valorous deeds of the combatants; but later as the horsemen pressed on from the flank and rear and Philip with the flower of his troops fought with true heroism, the mass of the Illyrians was compelled to take hastily to flight. When the pursuit had been kept up for a considerable distance and many had been slain in their flight, Philip recalled the Macedonians with the trumpet and erecting a trophy of victory buried his own dead, while the Illyrians, having sent ambassadors and withdrawn from all the Macedonian cities, obtained peace. But more than seven thousand Illyrians were slain in this battle.\"\nFrom the 4th century BC, Celtic groups pushed into the Carpathian region and the Danube basin, coinciding with their movement into Italy. According to legend, 300,000 Celts moved into Italy and Illyria. By the 3rd century, the native inhabitants of Pannonia were almost completely Celticized. The Illyrians had been waging war against the Greeks, leaving their western flank weak. Whilst Alexander ruled Greece, the Celts dared not to push south near Greece. Therefore, early Celtic expeditions were concentrated against Illyrian tribes.\n\nWe have little information about the affairs in the Illyrian hinterland, but we do know that the first Balkan tribe to be defeated by the Celts was the Autariatae, who during the 4th century had enjoyed a hegemony over much of the central Balkans, centred on the Morava valley. An interesting account of cunning Celtic tactics is revealed in their attacks on the Ardiaei. In 310 BC, Celtic general Molistomos attacked deep into Illyrian territory, subduing the Dardanians and the Paeonians.\n\nIn 280 BC they moved in three directions: toward Macedonia and Illyria, toward Greece, and toward Thrace. The main army according to Diodorus, of 150,000-foot soldiers equipped with great shields and 10,000 horsemen was followed by 2,000 wagons transporting food and equipment. All the states of the Balkans at this time looked at this movement with apprehension. Ptolemy, the king of Macedonia, took the news of the Gauls casually. He looked down with derision on the proposal of the king of the Dardanians possibly Monunius who sent delegates to say that they could offer 20,000 warriors to assist him. In an insulting manner, he said that the work was for the Macedonians to do. When the king of the Dardanians was told of this, he replied that the soon glorious Macedonian kingdom would fall because of the immaturity of a youth. And so it happened, for in the battle that took place a few days later in Macedonia, the Macedonian army was routed and Ptolemy was wounded and taken prisoner. After continuing south and raiding the Delphi the Gallic army decided to return up north to their homeland but were all wiped out by the Dardanians, through which they had to pass.\n\nIn the \"First Illyrian War\", which lasted from 229 BC to 228 BC, Rome's concern with the trade routes running across the Adriatic Sea increased after the First Punic War, when many tribes of Illyria became united under one queen, Teuta. The death of a Roman envoy named Coruncanius on the orders of Teuta and the attack on trading vessels owned by Italian merchants under Rome's protection, prompted the Roman senate to dispatch a Roman army under the command of the consuls Lucius Postumius Albinus (consul 234 and 229 BC) and Gnaeus Fulvius Centumalus. Rome expelled Illyrian garrisons at the Greek cities Epidamnus, Apollonia, Korkyra, Pharos and others and established a protectorate over these Greek towns.\n\nThe Romans also set up Demetrius of Pharos as a power in Illyria to counterbalance the power of Teuta.\n\nThe \"Second Illyrian War\" lasted from 220 BC to 219 BC. In 219 BC the Roman Republic was at war with the Celts of Cisalpine Gaul, and the Second Punic War with Carthage was beginning. These distractions gave Demetrius the time he needed to build a new Illyrian war fleet. Leading this fleet of 90 ships, Demetrius sailed south of Lissus, violating his earlier treaty and starting the war.\n\nDemetrius' fleet first attacked Pylos where he captured 50 ships after several attempts. From Pylos the fleet sailed to the Cyclades, quelling resistance they found on the way. Demetrius foolishly sent a fleet across the Adriatic, and, with the Illyrian forces divided, the fortified city of Dimale was captured by the Roman fleet under Lucius Aemilius Paulus. From Dimale the navy went towards Pharos. The forces of Rome routed the Illyrians and Demetrius fled to Macedon where he became a trusted councilor at the court of Philip V of Macedon, and remained until his death at Messene in 214 BC.\n\nDuring the \"Third Illyrian War\" in 168 BC the Illyrian king Gentius allied himself with the Macedonians. First in 171 BC, he was allied with the Romans against the Macedonians, but in 169 he changed sides and allied himself with Perseus of Macedon. He arrested two Roman legati and destroyed the cities of Apollonia and Dyrrhachium, which were allied with Rome. In 168 he was defeated at Scodra by a Roman force under L. Anicius Gallus, and in 167 brought to Rome as a captive to participate in Gallus' triumph, after which he was interned in Iguvium.\nIn the Illyrian War of 229 BC, 219 BC and 168 BC, Rome overran the Illyrian settlements and suppressed piracy, which had made Adriatic Sea an unsafe region for Roman commerce. There were three Roman campaigns: the first against Teuta the second against Demetrius of Pharos and the third against Gentius. The first Roman campaign of 229 BC marked the first time that the Roman Navy crossed the Adriatic in order to launch the invasion.\n\nThe \"Great Illyrian Revolt\", (\"Bellum Batonianum\" or \"Pannonian Revolt\") was a major conflict between an alliance of Illyrian communities and the Roman forces that lasted for four years beginning in AD 6 and ending in AD 9. In AD 6, several regiments of Daesitiates, natives of area that now comprises central Bosnia and Herzegovina, led by Bato the Daesitiate (Bato I), were gathered in one place to prepare to join Augustus's stepsonand senior military commander Tiberius in a war against the Germans. Instead, the Daesitiates mutinied and defeated a Roman force sent against them. The Daesitiates were soon joined by the Breuci led by Bato of the Breuci (Bato II), another community inhabiting the region between the rivers Sava and Drava in modern Croatia. They gave battle to a second Roman force from Moesia led by Caecina Severus (the governor of Moesia). Despite their defeat, they inflicted heavy casualties at the Battle of Sirmium. The rebels were now joined by a large number of other communities. At risk was the strategic province of Illyricum, recently expanded to include the territory of the Pannonii, an indigenous communities inhabiting the region between the rivers Drava and Sava, who were subjugated by Rome in 12–9 BC. Illyricum was on Italy's eastern flank, exposing the Roman heartland to the fear of a rebel invasion.\n\nAugustus ordered Tiberius to break off operations in Germany and move his main army to Illyricum. Tiberius sent Marcus Valerius Messalla Messallinus (the governor of Dalmatia and Pannonia) ahead with troops. The panic broke out in Rome and Augustus raised a second task force under Tiberius's nephew Germanicus. He resorted to the compulsory purchase and emancipation of thousands of slaves in order to amass enough troops. This happened for the first time since the aftermath of the Battle of Cannae two centuries earlier. At one moment, in winter AD 6/7, 10 legions were deployed and an equivalent number of auxilia (70 cohors, 10 ala and more than 10,000 veterans). In addition, they were assisted by a large number of Thracian troops deployed by their King Rhoemetalces I, a Roman \"amicus\" (\"ally\") a grand total of some 100,000 men.\n\nThey faced further reverses on the battlefield and a bitter guerrilla war in the Bosnian mountains, but bitter fighting also occurred in southern Pannonia around Mons Almus (modern Fruška Gora) near Sirmium. It took them three years of hard fighting to quell the revolt, which was described by the Roman historian Suetonius as the most difficult conflict faced by Rome since the Punic Wars two centuries earlier. Tiberius finally quelled the revolt in AD 9. This was just in time: that same year Arminius destroyed Varus's three legions in Germany. The Roman high command did not doubt that Arminius would have formed a grand alliance with the Illyrians.\n\nThe fighting of the Illyrian Revolt had lasting effects on Roman soldiers. Unhappy with their payment of swampy and mountainous Pannonian lands for such harsh military service, and with abuses relating to their pay and conditions, Roman soldiers staged a mutiny in AD 14 demanding recompense. Tiberius dispatched his son, Drusus, to pacify the mutineers.\n\nIllyrians in ancient sources were known as brave and skilled fighters. The Illyrians appeared in war as free warriors under their rulers or kings. Similar to other societies the status of a leader was determined by the number of warriors who followed him. Obedience to a higher authority such as a king was channeled through the collective loyalty of a tribe to the chief. In historical sources they are described as a peasant infantry fighting under aristocratic proprietors (polydynastae) each one controlling a town within the kingdom. The Dalmatians were known to use Partisan tactics against the Romans which were successful in inflicting serious defeats on the best of the Roman legions.\n\nDiodorus Siculus (1st century BC) writes of the Illyrian military formation in this battle that was an attempt for a coordinated stance by forming a square. His exact words are: \"Ἰλλυριοὶ συντάξαντες ἑαυτούς εἰς πλινθίον ἐρρωμένος\".\n\"But the Illyrians, forming themselves into a square, courageously entered the fray. And at first for a long while the battle was evenly poised because of the exceeding gallantry displayed on both sides, and as many were slain and still more wounded, the fortune of battle vacillated first one way then the other\"\nIn the 2nd century BC the army of Agron and Teuta is no more represented in phalanxes but in smaller troops, armored well and fast moving. These tactics also used in Roman times were ready for independent operations and so were more effective than earlier phalanxes. These exact tactics were agile for quick and surprising actions and soon showed to be superior against Greek tactics and as a result the Illyrians received some wonderful victories against the Greeks.\n\nOn the sea the Illyrians used guerrilla-partisan tactics with their sophisticated navy. These sea tactics made the Illyrians masters of the Adriatic Sea for many centuries. Their ships, which were relatively small were not capable of direct naval battle with the heavier war-ships of the Greeks and Romans and most of the time were defeated. An exception is the victory over the island of Paxoi when the Illyrians used a new form of tactic which involved connecting their ships in groups of four and attacking the Greek ships.\n\nThe fact that Illyrian warriors were buried with their weapons has resulted in an abundant amount of surviving intact. The works of ancient authors fail to provide a clear picture on Illyrian weapons and the only true contributor to this matter was the Roman poet Ennius (239 BC – 169 BC) who was of Messapian origin. Weaponry was very important to the Illyrian in the time of war however sometimes only the rich and nobles could afford some types such as greaves and helmets. A lot of armor was imported to mainly from the Greek mainland proved by the findings of Greek weapons in the Glacinac graves dating from the 7th century BC.\n\nShields were used among the Illyrian as early as the Bronze Age. In the Iron Age two types of shields were used, the Illyrian circular shield and the oval/rectangular type used by the northern Illyrians. The most common was the circular shield which was made of wood and leather with a bronze boss and was like a mostly light pelte. The Illyrian circular shield resembled the Macedonian version but differed from the number of circular decortication. Their shapes with either round (peltes), rectangular or oval. A type of wooden oblong shield with an iron boss was introduced to Illyria from the Celts. This type of shield resembled the Illyrian oval shield used in northern Illyria.\n\nBreast-armor and greaves were a specialty for the rich only in Illyrian society. Bronze breast-armor was used very rarely by the northern Illyrians and only three examples have been discovered so far in Slovenia. However another form of body armor was a bronze pectoral that may have protected part of the back as well. It was more like a disc \"breastplate\" of 10 cm in diameter. Greaves to protect the legs were used from the 7th century BC and probably even earlier. They first appeared in Illyria from its southern borders and are found only in princely graves.\n\nIn northern Illyria the \"bronze helmet\" was employed. The bronze helmet developed into the common Conical helmet which sometimes contained a plume. The most intriguing of all Illyrian helmets developed, the Shmarjet helmet, was made by the Japodes in the Lika valley. It was made from wicker and chain-mail while metal plates around the sides were optional. Under influence from Illyria's northern neighbours, the Italic peoples, the Negau helmet was used from the 5th century BC to the 4th century BC. The most widespread helmet was the Illyrian helmet with its use beginning from the 7th century BC. The Illyrian helmet was made from bronze and consisted of a great, crested plume on the top. The origin and the time period this helmet used has been a subject of much debate. Some experts allocate its origins in Corinth and claim it went out of use in Illyria in the 4th century BC. Others claim that the helmet has its origins in Illyria and that it was used up to the 2nd century BC, proven by depictions on Illyrian city coins of the time.\n\nThe principal sword of the Illyrians was the sica, a single-edged curved sword similar to the Greek machaira. The sica was developed during the Bronze Age. The sica's blade was about long. It became widely used and adopted by other peoples such as the Thracians, Dacians and the Romans. The Illyrians also used the \"fighting sword\" short curved swords, long swords in addition to various knives. According to historian John Wilkes:\n\n\"Although a short curved sword was used by several peoples around the Mediterranean the Romans regarded the \"sica\" as a distinct Illyrian weapon used by the stealthy 'assassin' (sicarius)\"\n\nThe Illyrians also used a variety of other weapons, like javelins, long metallic spears called \"Sibyna\" (Ancient Greek Σιβύνη) that resembled boar spears, short thrusting spears, battle axes, single-handed axes that could be hurled and also bows and arrows which were used from the start of the 2nd millennium BC.\n\nIllyrians acted as mercenaries on several occasions whether on the side of the Greeks or the Romans. Perdiccas II of Macedon had hired Illyrian mercenaries in the 5th century BC but they betrayed him, allying with his enemy, Arrhabaeus of Lyncus. In another incident, Lysimachus killed all of his 5,000 Illyrian mercenaries (of the Autariatae tribe) to the last man, because he was convinced that they would join the enemy. Previously in 302 BC 2,000 of his Illyrian mercenaries had defected to Antigonus. Illyrians were not considered as reliable mercenaries, in the ancient world but were at the same time acknowledged as a skilled fighting force\n\nThe nobility had access to breastplates and greaves whilst the bulk of the army did not. The kings did not resemble the rest of the army and were the only ones with full body protection which was a rarity. Illyrian kings and rulers wore bronze torques around their necks and were heavily armored in antithesis to the bulk of their armies. A number of weapons and armaments were imported from Greece including helmets. Armaments were mostly made of bronze. Another form of body armor was a bronze pectoral (that may have protected part of the back as well). It was more like a disc \"breastplate\" of 10 cm in diameter. Local greaves made of bronze were strapped on the legs. Metal riveted belts were used as well.\n\nThe Illyrians were notorious sailors in the ancient world. They were great ship builders and seafarers. The most skillful Illyrian sailors were the Liburnians, Japodes, Delmatae and Ardiaei. The greatest navy was built by Agron in the 3rd century BC. The Illyrian tactics consisted of lashing their galleys together in groups of four and inviting a broadside attack from a ram. The Illyrians would then board the enemy craft in overwhelming numbers. Illyrian war ships were adopted by many peoples especially the Greeks and Romans. Illyrian craftsmen were even hired by the King of Macedon to build 100 ships in the First Macedonian War because to him they bore a special gift of ship building. The earliest evidence of Illyrian ships is from the design of a ship incised on bronze greaves from Glasinac dating from the 8th century BC to the 7th century BC. The front of this ship is constructed in the form of an animal probably a horse.\n\nIllyrian ships were a favourite depiction on Illyrian coins especially on the coinage of the Labatae. The type of war ships presented on the coins is hard to determine. However, all the depictions show a similarity in which the bows of the ships were shaped in the form of a serpents head. The Byzantine author from the 6th century wrote that the Adriatic was a sea in which serpents swam.\n\nThe Liburnians were renowned seafarers dominating the Adriatic and Ionian Sea from the start of the 1st millennium to the 5th century BC. The Romans knew them principally as a people addicted to piracy. The major harbour of Liburnian navy since the 5th century BC was \"Corynthia\" at eastern cape of Krk island, including 7 unearthed docks, marine arsenal, and stony fortifications; this early harbour persisted in ancient and medieval function to the 16th century.\nLiburnians constructed different ship types; their \"galaia\" was an early prototype of transport galleys, \"lembus\" was a fishing ship continued by the actual Croatian \"levut\", and a \"drakoforos\" was apparently mounted with a dragonhead at the prow.\nRemains of a 10 meters long ship from the 1st century BC, were found in Zaton near Nin (Aenona in Classical Liburnia), a ship keel with bottom planking made of 6 rows of the wooden boards on each side, specifically joined together, sewn with resin cords and wooden wedges, testifying the Liburnian shipbuilding tradition style, therefore named \"Serilia Liburnica\". Deciduous trees (oak and beech) were used, while some climber was used for the cords.\n\nThe Illyrians were often referred to as pirates, raiding Greek and Roman vessels. Illyrian's indulgence in piracy was one that brought them infamy and invited their downfall. Their rugged broken coast with its screen of islands formed a perfect base from which their light and speedy little to attack unwary shipss. The Illyrians piratical career reached its zenith under Queen Teuta. The Illyrians practiced boarding tactics against enemy vessels. Although this view was widely accepted at first this connection is not completely true. Ancient Greek and Roman authors often attacked Illyrians in their works merely because they saw them as enemies and so many sources may be heavily exaggerated.\n\nThe three main types of Illyrian warships were the Lembus, the Liburna and the Pristis.\n\nThe lembos (from , \"boat\", romanized as \"lembus\"), was an ancient Illyrian warship, with a single bank of oars and no sails. It was small and light, with a low freeboard. It was a fast and maneuverable warship capable of carrying 50 men in addition to the rowers. It was most commonly associated with the vessels used by the Illyrian tribes, chiefly for piracy, in the area of Dalmatia. This type of craft was also adopted by Philip V of Macedon, and soon after by the Seleucids, Rome, and even the Spartan king Nabis in his attempt to rebuild the Spartan navy.\n\nIn contemporary authors, the name was associated with a class rather than a specific type of vessels, as considerable variation is evident in the sources: the number of oars ranged from 16 to 50, they could be one- or double-banked, and some types did not have a ram, presumably being used as couriers and fast cargo vessels.\n\nThe most known Liburnian ship was their warship, known as a \"libyrnis\" to the Greeks and a \"liburna\" to the Romans, propelled by oars.\nAccording to some thoughts, liburna was shown in the scene of naval battle, curved on a stone tablet (Stele di Novilara) found near Antique Pisaurum (Pesaro), outlined to 5th or 6th century BC, the most possibly showing imaginary battle between Liburnian and Picenian fleets. Liburna was presented as light type of the ship with one row or the oars, one mast, one sail and prow twisted outwards. Under the prow there was a rostrum made for striking the enemy ships under the sea.\n\nBy its original form, the liburna was the most similar to the Greek penteconter. It had one bench with 25 oars on each side, while in the late ages of the Roman Republic, it became a smaller version of a trireme, but with two banks of oars (a bireme), faster, lighter, and more agile than biremes and triremes. The liburnian design was adopted by the Romans and became a key part of Ancient Rome's navy, most possibly by mediation of Macedonian navy in the 2nd half of the 1st century BC. Liburna ships played a key role in naval battle of Actium in Greece, which lasted from August 31 to September 2 of 31 BC. Because of the its naval and maneuver features and bravery of its Liburnian crews, these ships completely defeated much bigger and heavier eastern ships, quadriremes and penterames.\nLiburna was different from the battle triremes, quadriremes and quinqueremes not because of rowing but rather because of its specific constructional features.\nIt was long and wide with a draft. Two rows of oarsmen pulled 18 oars per side. The ship could make up to 14 knots under sail and more than 7 under oars.\nSuch a vessel, used as a merchantman, might take on a passenger, as Lycinus relates in the 2nd-century dialogue, traditionally attributed to Lucian of Samosata: \"I had a speedy vessel readied, the kind of bireme used above all by the Liburnians of the Ionian Gulf.\"\n\nOnce the Romans had adopted the Liburnian, they proceeded to make a few adaptations to improve the ships’ use within the navy. The benefits gained from the addition of rams and protection from missiles more than made-up for the slight loss of speed. Besides the construction, the ships required that the regular Roman military unit be simplified in order to function more smoothly. Each ship operated as an individual entity, so the more complicated organization normally used was not necessary. Within the navy, there were probably liburnian of several varying sizes, all put to specific tasks such as scouting and patrolling Roman waters against piracy. The Romans made use of the liburnian particularly within the provinces of the empire, where the ships formed the bulk of the fleets, while it was included by small numbers in fleets of Ravenna and Micenum, where a large number of the Illyrians were serving, especially Dalmatae, Liburnians and Pannonians.\n\nGradually liburna became general name for the different types of the Roman ships, attached also to the cargo ships in the Late Antique. Tacitus and Suetonius were using it as a synonym for the battle ship. In inscriptions it was mentioned as the last in class of the battle ships: \"hexeres\", \"penteres\", \"quadrieres\", \"trieres\", \"liburna\".\n\nIn the Medieval sources the \"liburna\" ships were often recorded in use by the Medieval Croatian and Dalmatian pirates and sailors, but probably not always referring to the ships of the same form.\n\nThe Pristis (Ancient Greek Πρίστις) was a \"beaked\" long and narrow war ship(it was also the name of a specific ship in the \"Aeneid\".)\n\nIllyrians built hill-forts as places of refuge (and perhaps as dwellings) such as Tilurium and Setovia of the Delmatae. Most enclosures were round or oval with very few exceptions for other shapes and the largest two were 200 meters across while most are not anything more than fortified blockhouses.\n\nThe \"Castellieri\" were fortified boroughs, usually located on hills or mountains or, more rarely (such as in Friuli), in plains. They were constituted by one or more concentric series of walls, of rounded or elliptical shape in Istria and Venezia Giulia, or quadrangular in Friuli, within which was the inhabited area. Some a hundred of \"castellieri\" have been discovered in Istria, Friuli and Venezia Giulia, such as that of Leme, in the central-western Istria, of the Elleri, near Muggia, of Monte Giove near Prosecco (Trieste) and San Polo, not far from Monfalcone. However, the largest \"castelliere\" was perhaps that of \"Nesactium\", in the southern Istria, not far from Pula.\n\nThe graves of Illyrian nobles (early Iron age, 7th century BC – 5th century BC) contained a great number of Greek imports including weaponry. This includes finds at Glasinac (Bosnia and Herzegovina), Lake Ohrid in Macedonia, Dolensko in Slovenia and various sites in Albania. The Glasinac culture encompasses eastern Bosnia, south-western Serbia, Montenegro and northern Albania. Ancient Greek Illyrian type helmets either as imports or later copies had spread throughout Illyria and one was found as far as Slovenia (though again in the grave of a king) not only in the Glasinac cultural area like the helmet found in the grave at Klicevo, Montenegro. The Greek helmets found in some of these sites were of \"type I\" and very few of \"type II\".\n\nIllyrians on the coast of the Adriatic were under the effects and influence of Hellenisation due to their proximity to the Greek colonies in Illyria. Apart from other cultural influences and imported weapons and armor from the Ancient Greeks the Illyrians had adopted the ornamentation of Ancient Macedon on their shields and used similar designs on bracelets. The Illyrians used four concentric half circles whilst the Macedons five. This ancient Greek symbol was prominent in Thessaly and Macedon, appearing in the 10th century BC and had spread throughout southern Greece. A typical adoption of the symbol in the Hellenistic period from Illyrians is seen on an iron round pelte with similar decorations and a diameter of 35 cm. This is evident during the Greek rule of south Illyria the Antipatrid dynasty & the Antigonid dynasty retained until the Roman conquest. Tactics had been influenced as well, evident in an incident involving Dardanians. The hellenised city of Daorson located in Dalmatia included \"cyclopean walls\".\n\nIllyria became a Roman province at 168 BC. The Illyrians, that were eventually Romanized rebelled in AD 6. Nearly two hundred years of Roman rule changed the weapons of the Illyrians by the time of the rebellion and they resembled those of Roman legionaries. The tribes that rebelled had been Celticized by the time Romans conquered Illyria in 168 BC and their equipment reflected this. Inhabitants of Roman Dalmatia applied a poison on their arrows called \"ninum\". This was not a Roman influence but was mentioned during that time.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCollapse ofsouthern Illyria and the start of Roman campaigns against northern Illyria\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8773010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8773010", "title": "Jacob Haight Morrison", "text": "Jacob Haight Morrison\n\nJacob Haight Morrison, IV (March 12, 1905 – December 4, 1974), was an attorney, journalist, author, and historical preservationist from New Orleans, Louisiana. He helped preserve the Vieux Carré or French Quarter, which has been designated as a National Historic District, and published a pioneer textbook on historic preservation law.\n\nHe was born into a political family: his father was district attorney of Pointe Coupee Parish, and his half-brother deLesseps Story \"Chep\" Morrison, Sr. later was elected as Mayor of New Orleans. Chep's son DeLesseps Story \"Toni\" Morrison, Jr. was elected to the Louisiana House of Representatives.\n\nMorrison was born in 1905 in New Roads, the seat of Pointe Coupee Parish (pronounced COO PEA), to the former Eloise Yancy (1876–1905) of Jonesville in Catahoula Parish, who died the same year as her son's birth. His father, Jacob Haight Morrison, III (1875–1929), was the district attorney of Pointe Coupee Parish. He married again, to Anita Olivier, a New Orleans socialite; they had a son, deLesseps Story \"Chep\" Morrison, Sr. Anita became a stepmother to the boy Jacob. His half-brother \"Chep\" became an attorney and politician and was elected as Mayor of New Orleans. He ran unsuccessfully for governor of Louisiana on three occasions.\n\nMorrison, IV, was educated in public schools, earning a Bachelor of Arts degree from Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge. He received his law degree from the Tulane University Law School in New Orleans.\n\nOn July 4, 1938, Morrison married Mary Meek (February 2, 1911 - February 26, 1999) of McComb, Mississippi. The couple had no children.\n\nBefore entering his law practice, Jacob Morrison reported on Louisiana State University sports for the \"New Orleans Times-Picayune\" and was sports editor of the former \"Baton Rouge State Times\". His two law partners were his half-brother \"Chep\" Morrison and Thomas Hale Boggs, Sr., a future U.S. Representative from New Orleans.\n\nMorrison was elected as a member of the Louisiana State Board of Education in the late 1930s. He served in the United States Army from 1943 to 1945 during World War II. He resumed his law practice after the war.\n\nMorrison led preservation of the Vieux Carre or French Quarter during the 1940s through his presidency of the Vieux Carre Property Owners and Association, Inc. He worked to find ways to support preservation through existing and new legislation, to provide incentives for owners to maintain properties. In 1957, he published his pioneer law textbook on preservation, \"Historic Preservation Law\". He was a member of the National Trust for Historic Preservation.\n\nMorrison was a member of the local, state, and national bar associations; Phi Delta Phi national legal fraternity, Sigma Delta Chi society of journalists, and the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nJacob Morrison died in New Orleans. He and his wife are interred at Lafayette Cemetery No. 1 in New Orleans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10889535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10889535", "title": "Jacqueline Jones", "text": "Jacqueline Jones\n\nJacqueline Jones (born 17 June 1948), is an American social historian. She held the Walter Prescott Webb Chair in History and Ideas from 2008 to 2017 and is Mastin Gentry White Professor of Southern History at the University of Texas at Austin. Her expertise is in American social history in addition to writing on economics (including feminist economics), race, slavery, and class. She is a Macarthur Fellow, Bancroft Prize Winner, and has been a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize twice.\n\nJones was born in Delaware. Jones' mother taught at Delaware Technical and Community College. Her father, Albert P. Jones (died 1995), worked for DuPont and was the president of the Delaware State Board of Education for many years; she attended an elementary school in Christiana, Delaware named after him in 1996. Jones received a B.A. in 1970 from the University of Delaware, and a Ph.D. in 1976 from the University of Wisconsin–Madison. She has held academic positions at Wellesley College, Brown University and Brandeis University. In July 1999 Jones was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship. Although the award typically allows academics to take time off from their teaching, she decided to wait before beginning her research and worked through the period of the fellowship, saying, \"I think I will take time off in a few years, but I really like being here on campus, being around my colleagues, teaching.\" Jones has also been awarded a Ford Fellowship, a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship, and an American Council of Learned Societies Fellowship, and was twice a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in history. She is married to the Political Scientist and Law Professor Jeffrey Abramson, author of \"We, The Jury\" and \"Minerva's Owl\", among other texts. The couple has two daughters, Sarah Jones Abramson and Anna Jones Abramson.\n\nIn 1986, Jones's second book \"Labor of Love, Labor of Sorrow: Black Women, Work, and the Family from Slavery to the Present\" won her the Bancroft Prize. In \"Labor of Love, Labor of Sorrow\", Jones demonstrates her extensive knowledge of the history of the South from 1830 to 1915. The book begins as a study of African Americans and the hardships they faced during the nineteenth century, but then develops to include commentary on the impact of class and gender on women in the South. The book goes on to debunk ideas about 'race' and also to blend analysis of the hardships faced by women and blacks into a single integrated picture centering on the figure of the black working-class woman. The book's combination of historical and feminist scholarship is characteristic of Jones's career. Upon winning a MacArthur fellowship Jones noted that finishing her Bancroft-winning volume inspired her to write her third book, \"The Dispossessed, America's Underclasses from the Civil War to the Present\", which examines poverty in America across the boundaries of race and gender. That book would go on to win her a Choice Award for Outstanding Academic Title in 1992 as well as finalist standing for the Lillian Smith Award for non-fiction. In 2001, Jones published \"Creek Walking\", a memoir of her childhood in Delaware during the 1950s. Although her expertise is primarily in African American history, Jones's books range widely in their coverage, from the effect of economic policies on workers' lives to American educational history. Her understanding of women's history has gained her recognition outside her own field among feminist circles, and she continues to reach non-academic audiences with the expansion of her areas of research. \"American Work: Four Centuries of Black and White Labor\" was a History Book Club Selection and in 2002 she was named a fellow in the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Jones has reflected in an interview that her work involves \"writing about issues of race and class and how the United States has changed over the years, how different groups have viewed each other and interacted, how certain groups have been assigned certain kinds of work.\" Her history writing increasingly features case studies focusing on the overlooked but nonetheless exemplary lives of individuals. Her most recent book, \"A Dreadful Deceit: The Myth of Race From the Colonial Era to Obama’s America\", was published in 2013.\n\nWhen asked by \"Politico Magazine\" to weigh in on which historical figures Donald Trump was comparable to, Jones said he echoed the comments of past Mississippi Governor James K. Vardaman.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26696508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26696508", "title": "John E. Toews", "text": "John E. Toews\n\nJohn E. Toews is a Canadian historian in the U.S., and Director of the Comparative History of Ideas Program, University of Washington from 1981 to 2010.\n\nHe graduated from Harvard University, with a Ph.D. in 1973.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53159177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53159177", "title": "John Kerr (minister)", "text": "John Kerr (minister)\n\nRev John Kerr FRSE LLD (1852-1920) was a Scottish minister, sportsman and sports author. He has been titled the Sporting Padre. His sporting repertoire included golf, curling, and skating.\n\nHe was born in Trohoughton in Dumfriesshire on 29 May 1852, one of eleven children to David K. Kerr and his wife, Mary Bell. He was educated locally at the Glencairn School in Dumfries.\n\nHe studied divinity and graduated MA, probably at Glasgow University. His first post was as minister of Skelmorlie Church in North Ayrshire. In 1878 he transferred to Dirleton Kirk in East Lothian, where he remained for the rest of his life.\n\nIn 1892 he was elected a fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Sir Andrew Douglas Maclagan, George Baillie-Hamilton-Arden, 11th Earl of Haddington, Charles Alfred Cooper, and H. A. Webster. He resigned in 1909.\nHe served as historian to the Royal Caledonian Curling Club.\n\nHe died in Haddington on 8 December 1920.\n\n\nHe was married to Maria Groves in Lewisham on 17 July 1883. Their children included Alec Seton Kerr, John Randolph Kerr, and daughters, Edith Katherine, Constance Ursula, Marie and Winifred Violet.\n"}
{"id": "12737131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12737131", "title": "Joseph Baldacchino", "text": "Joseph Baldacchino\n\nJoseph G. Baldacchino (17 July 1894 – 6 July 1974) was a Maltese archaeologist. He was born in Siġġiewi and spent his early childhood in that locality until 1901, when his family moved to Tarxien. In 1909, the family moved to Qormi, where he studied medicine, graduating as a medical doctor in 1919.\n\nAlthough he worked as a general practitioner for over a decade, by 1930 he was showing a deep interest in paleontology. He was appointed curator of natural history within the Malta Museum Department in 1933. He continued work on the Għar Dalam Museum and excavated the cave at this site. His hypothesis formulated at this time, that the cave was originally an underground cavern divided by an ancient river is still considered as valid today.\n\nAfter the war he was appointed director of the Museum Department in 1947. Under his directorship the department toiled to bring out material stored during the war years and display it once again. A number of restoration and excavation campaigns were conducted at Ħaġar Qim, Mnajdra and Tarxien Temples while material uncovered following serendipitous discoveries was published.\n\nBaldacchino retired from the Museum Department in 1955 and for a number of years worked at the University of Malta. He died on 6 July 1974 and was buried at the Addolorata Cemetery, Just eleven days missed off 80.\n\nSagona C., Vella Gregory I., Bugeja A., Punic Antiquities of Malta and Other Ancient Artefacts Held in Private Collections, 2, 2006, XXII-276 p\n\n"}
{"id": "30093711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30093711", "title": "Krzysztof Budzyń", "text": "Krzysztof Budzyń\n\nKrzysztof Budzyń (born September 4, 1957), is a Polish entrepreneur and amateur historian, specializing in the history of the Śrem region in western Poland, and author of many publications on this subject.\n\nKrzysztof Budzyń was born in Śrem, Poland. Since his birth, he has been living in his home village Binkowo near Śrem. After finishing elementary school in Pysząca, he attended Gen. Józef Wybicki High School in Śrem. After passing his \"matura\" school leaving examinations, he was studying at the Chemical Engineering Faculty of Szczecin University of Technology, where he was awarded a Master of Science degree.\n\nAfter graduating from university, he worked for companies of the chemical industry for some time; in the late 1980s he decided to start his own business. In 1990, he opened a wholesale company dealing in household chemicals and cosmetics; in 1995 he extended his business to include a chain of retail outlets.\n\nDespite his technical background and running a trading company, Krzysztof Budzyń has been interested in humanities, especially history and literature, for many years; occasionally he is also engaged in literary work himself.\n\nHe made his debut as early as 1981 in \"Szpilki\" (\"Pins\"), a Polish magazine of humour and satire, as an author of limericks. Since the early 1990s he has been writing articles on regional history to local newspapers and the periodical \"Pierwiosnek\" (\"Primrose\") published by the Gen. Józef Wybicki High School in Śrem. He is a bibliophile and collector of historical mementoes – old maps, documents, photographs, postcards, mainly from the Śrem region, covering the territory of present Śrem County and the neighbouring communes of Kórnik and Mosina, which were part of Śrem County in the past.\n\nSince 2008, Krzysztof Budzyń has been publishing \"Śremski Notatnik Historyczny\" (\"Śrem Historical Notebook\"), a \"magazine for lovers of the Śrem region\", a periodical published irregularly, featuring articles on the history of the region and its eminent citizens. Six volumes of \"Śremski Notatnik Historyczny\" have been published so far. Krzysztof Budzyń is the publisher, editor-in-chief and author of a great deal of texts in the magazine.\n\nPart of his collections was displayed at the exhibition \"Moja Ziemia Śremska (ze zbiorów Krzysztofa Budzynia)\" (\"My Śrem Region – Krzysztof Budzyń's collections\") in the Raczyński Library in Poznań from November 25, 2010 to January 31, 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2819675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2819675", "title": "Leôncio Basbaum", "text": "Leôncio Basbaum\n\nLeôncio Basbaum (born 6 November 1907)) was a Brazilian Marxist historian, medic and writer.\n\nChild of Jewish immigrants from Ukraine, Basbaum was born and raised in the state of Pernambuco. He qualified as a medical doctor in Rio de Janeiro in 1929 and became involved in the Brazilian Communist Party following his graduation, dedicating the rest of his life to the Marxist philosophy.\n"}
{"id": "43255026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43255026", "title": "Matilda Ridout Edgar", "text": "Matilda Ridout Edgar\n\nMatilda Ridout Edgar (29 September 1844 – 29 September 1910) was a Canadian historian and feminist.\nShe was born Matilda Ridout, became Matilda Edgar by marriage, and became Lady Edgar in 1898 when her husband was knighted.\nThe mother of nine children, she turned to historical research and writing when in her forties.\nShe published three books in her lifetime and was working on a fourth when she died.\nShe was active in a number of Toronto-based societies, and in her later years was a strong advocate of women's causes.\n\nMatilda Ridout was born in Toronto, Canada, on 29 September 1844, the fifth child and second daughter of Thomas Gibbs Ridout and Matilda Ann Bramley.\nHer grandfather, Thomas Ridout of Sherborne, Dorset, was surveyor general of Upper Canada from 1810 to 1829.\nHer father was the first cashier of the Bank of Upper Canada from 1822 until he retired in 1861.\nHer father died a few months after retiring, and his mother was left with little money to support a family of nine.\nOn 5 September 1865 Matilda married James David Edgar, a barrister, lawyer and author, becoming Matilda Edgar.\nThe marriage of \"Tillie\" (Matilda) and James was happy and loving, as is shown by the letters he wrote to her daily when politics took him to Ottawa.\n\nShe enjoyed raising their three daughters and six sons, although they left her with little free time.\nEight of the children lived into adulthood.\nTheir eldest son was James Frederic Edgar, born on 6 July 1866.\nTheir second surviving son was Pelham Edgar and their oldest daughter was Maud.\nThey were followed by William Wilkie, born on 26 October 1874, Beatrice on 25 August 1877, David Keithock on 29 November 1879 and Herbert Wedderlie on 20 June 1883.\nMarjorie was born in 1886.\n\nHer husband ran on the Liberal platform and was elected to the House of Commons of Canada to represent Monck, Ontario on 12 October 1872, but lost his seat in the election of 22 January 1874. He ran again without success in several by-elections and elections until being elected on the Liberal platform for Ontario West on 22 August 1884.\nDuring his time out of office he became the unofficial organizer for Prime Minister Alexander Mackenzie in Ontario, and negotiated a new railway clause for the entry of British Columbia into the Confederation of Canada.\n\nJames David Edgar was appointed Speaker of the House of Commons on 19 August 1896, holding this position until his death.\nAs his wife, Matilda Edgar was invited to become patron of enterprises such as the Toronto Infants' Home, the Imperial Order of the Daughters of the Empire, and the Women's Art Association of Canada (WAAC).\nIn 1898 Matilda Edgar and Mary Dignam, president of the WAAC, arranged for members of the House and Senate to subscribe $1,000 to purchase the Cabot Commemorative State Dinner Service. This was a hand-painted eight-course, 24-place dinner set representing Canadian subjects that had been made by WAAC members to commemorate the 400th anniversary of John Cabot's discovery of Canada. The set was formally presented to Lady Aberdeen on the occasion of her husband finishing his assignment as Governor General of Canada.\n\nPrime Minister Sir Wilfrid Laurier appointed Edgar to the Privy Council, and in 1898 he was knighted.\nHe was already showing the symptoms of nephritis, a kidney disease.\nFor part of 1898 Matilda, now Lady Edgar, was acting president of the National Council of Women of Canada.\nWhen her husband died on 31 July 1899 Matilda Edgar was devastated, and gave up all public activities for the next year. She briefly turned to spiritualism, and thought she received a message from her husband telling her to continue to work and to give her support to the children.\n\nMatilda Edgar became active in public again in 1900.\nShe threw herself into women's causes, proposing that women should have the right to receive higher education, support themselves and vote.\nWomen should not lose control of their property when they married.\nShe became a life member of the National Council of Women in 1906, and was elected president of the council that year.\nShe was elected president again in 1909.\n\nIn 1890 Matilda Edgar published an edited collection of letters between her grandfather and his sons George and Thomas.\nThey described life in Toronto and London and the battles of the War of 1812.\nThe work celebrated the achievements of Canada in an effort to build national pride, and was well received.\nA sketch of her life published by the Women's Canadian Historical Society in 1914 said, \"The resultant volume ... revealed her sense of historical perspective, her easy mastery of detail, and her possession of a literary style that was at once limpid, nervous and strong\".\n\nMatilda Edgar and Sarah Anne Curzon founded the Canadian Women's Historical Society in 1895.\nShe replaced Curzon as president of the Society in 1897, when Curzon retired.\nIn 1904 she published a biography of Sir Isaac Brock, another \"whig\" celebration of Canadian achievement.\nThe \"Montreal Standard\" said of this book that \"for accuracy and completeness of information…and for beauty of style, it has seldom been surpassed.\"\nHer third book also drew on the Ridout family papers. It was a biography of Horatio Sharpe, a colonial governor of Maryland.\nThe book was published in 1912, after her death, and was highly praised.\n\nMatilda Edgar began work on a biography of an ancestor of her husband, James Edgar, a Scottish Jacobite.\nFor more than forty years he was private secretary to James Francis Edward Stuart, the Chevalier St. George.\nShe was given permission to conduct research at Windsor Castle, where his correspondence was preserved, and spent the winter of 1909–10 working in the library.\nThe book was complete apart from the last three chapters when she went back to London to conduct some research in the British Museum.\nShe died of heart failure in London, England, on 29 September 1910. Her body was taken back to Toronto for burial.\n\nJames Frederic Edgar served in the Second Riel Rebellion, then completed his legal studies and was called to the bar of Ontario.\nHe was eventually created a King's Counsel.\nPelham Edgar became an English professor at Victoria College in the University of Toronto.\nMaud co-founded Miss Edgar's and Miss Cramp's School in Montreal, and for many years was headmistress of this private school for girls.\nMarjorie married Keith Hicks. Their daughter Maud McLean co-authored a biography of Matilda and her husband, published in 1988.\n\nMatilda Edgar's published works were:\n"}
{"id": "17731197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17731197", "title": "Mikko Juva", "text": "Mikko Juva\n\nMikko Einar Juva (22 November 1918 in Kokkola – 1 January 2004 in Turku) was a Finnish historian, theologian and archbishop. He was professor in Nordic history 1957–1962 at the University of Turku and professor in Finnish and Scandinavian history and church history at Helsinki University 1962–1978. He served as rector of the University of Helsinki from 1971 to 1973. He was also a member of the Finnish parliament 1964–1966 and the chairman of Liberal People's Party 1965–1968.\n\nIn his youth Mikko Juva took part in the Student Christian Movement and was student minister 1948–1950. He was archbishop of Finland 1978–1982. The most important assignment was his presidency in the Lutheran World Federation 1970–1977. He also published writings in historical and church historical subjects.\n\nHe was the son of Einar W. Juva.\n\n"}
{"id": "19406269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19406269", "title": "Myna Potts", "text": "Myna Potts\n\nMyna Gayle Hicks Potts (born March 30, 1927) is a historical preservationist from Chillicothe in Hardeman County in West Texas who is the curator of the Medicine Mound Museum in the nearby ghost town of Medicine Mound. Only two buildings remain in the town. Medicine Mound has received non-profit status and has been placed in the domain of the newly established Downtown Medicine Mound Preservation Group, a 501(c)(3) public charity. \nMedicine Mound is near four dolomite hills known as Medicine Mounds, which are considered sacred by the Comanche and Kiowa Indians who believe that the landmarks contain mystical spirits to improve the quality of their lives. The mounds are on private property and not available for public tours beyond an outer five-mile limit. One can see for approximately fifty miles from the top of the mounds.\nJohn A. Bates of Ferndale in Oakland County, Michigan, near Detroit, the former executive director of the Downtown Medicine Mound Preservation Group and a cousin of Myna Potts, recalls having visited the ghost town when he was a boy: \"The Comanche would come to the Medicine Mounds for their healing powers, often trading flint and other goods and racing their ponies around the mound below us. . . . We carefully descended about seventy-five feet or so to an almost imperceptible track that circled the entire mound, which was used by Quanah Parker's braves to test their horsemanship. [In 1966], this 'track' was still quite visible, especially for a young man with a fertile imagination. Sadly, it is slowly disappearing as the young cedar trees begin to reclaim the ground.\"\n\nThe four mounds, which range in elevation from two hundred to five hundred feet, were Comanche campsites and ceremonial grounds. The mounds had abundant spring water which encouraged hunting, the gathering of medicinal plants, and for worship. The Comanche Nation still considers two of these mounds to be sacred: the tallest, Medicine Mound, and the second tallest, Cedar Mound. The Indians return to these sites to gather plants and herbs and to seek spiritual guidance.\n\nPotts was the only daughter of five children of Ira Lee Hicks (1886–1966) and the former Lillie Bell Holmes (1892–1989), who are buried in Chillicothe. She was born in Bonita, an unincorporated community in Montague County northwest of Denton. The Pottses moved west of Wichita Falls to Medicine Mound in Hardeman County when Myna was still an infant. Ira Hicks and his brother-in-law, Lon Cobb (died 1942), operated the Hicks-Cobb General Store, since the museum which Potts oversees as the major focus of her historical preservation efforts. \nPotts attended elementary school in Medicine Mound and graduated from Quanah High School in Quanah, the seat of Hardeman County, named for the Comanche chief Quanah Parker. She attended Texas Tech University in Lubbock for one year. Potts was married to John Luther Potts, Jr. (1922-2011), who retired from the Lykes Shipping Company of New Orleans. As a skipper in the merchant marine, he was away from home in Chillicothe six months at a time, a situation which led Mrs. Potts to master the ham radio to maintain communication with her husband. The couple had one son, David Lee Potts (born January 12, 1947).\n\nPotts grew up in the store, which she still describes as her \"playhouse\". In addition to the Hicks-Cobb General Store, Medicine Mound in its heyday had the W.W. Cole Building, a combination bank, drugstore, gasoline station (with rusty pumps remaining), and post office, a laundry (specifically, New York Steam Laundry), a school, and a church. U.S. Highway 287 bypassed Medicine Mound in the late 1920s, and the community slowly declined in population. The ghost town is located at the junction of Texas Farm or Ranch Roads 91 and 1167, which can be reached from U.S. 287 southward at Chillicothe or several miles further west of Chillicothe. It is southeast of the county seat of Quanah. \nCotton was grown about Medicine Mound, and times were generally prosperous until the Great Depression. A fire swept through Medicine Mound in 1933, but the community rebuilt. Though the original town buildings were wooden, solid granite round rocks were placed on the revised structures—the stone is really prehistoric gravel and was brought from the Wichita Mountains of Oklahoma,\nThe population steadily declined from some five hundred to nothing, meaning a ghost town, though the 2000 census placed the count at fifty, most living away from the town itself. When Hicks-Cobb closed in 1966, the town died. There are four Texas Historical Commission markers outside the old store dedicated to (1) the community of Medicine Mound, (2) the Hicks-Cobb store, turned into a museum by Potts, (3) a Works Progress Administration sanitation project from the 1930s, and (4) a pioneer cemetery south of Medicine Mound, which is believed to have a total of nine graves.\nOn April 5, 2008, Potts addressed the West Texas Historical Association annual meeting in Canyon south of Amarillo on her historical preservation work and her attempt to highlight the contributions of rural Americans.\n\nIn 2007, Potts told Bob Phillips in his \"Texas Country Reporter\" syndicated television series that Medicine Mound \"was rural America, and it was complete. We had everything we needed right here. . . . I want the people remembered who settled the area. . . . [This place] has meaning; they had a place in history.\" \nPhillips narrated his observations as follows: [Potts] is one woman determined to keep this town's history together. . . . We found Medicine Mound on Highway 1167 far from anything but the hills that the native Comanche held sacred, the mounds that give this place its name. Once we were here, we felt close to those who built the community, and the past didn't seem so far away.\"\n\nThe museum is particularly known for its extensive collection of hundreds of photographs of early pioneers as well as old bottles, store fixtures, and a variety of items once sold in the mercantile, such as hats. Potts began assembling the pictures when she worked with western author Bill Neal, who wrote on a book on the region, \"Our Stories, Legends of the Mounds\".\nMuseum hours are usually 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Saturday but also by appointment. In many ways, Medicine Mound Museum is Potts' \"personal museum\", the story of her own life. There is a highway rest stop on U.S. 287 to assist travelers desiring to detour to Medicine Mound to see the four mounds, the historical museum, and the ghost town.\nPhotographer Joe Miller recommends a visit to Medicine Mound for those who like solitude: \"Potts is a gracious hostess and the place is certainly worth a visit. I love places like Medicine Mound because I hate crowds -- especially when I'm trying to do photography. I set up my heavy tripod in the middle of the street knowing that there probably wouldn't be any traffic and, if someone did come along they would most likely pull around me and wave like they do when you meet them on the highway. There's not a lot of road rage in Medicine Mound.\"\n"}
{"id": "51974186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51974186", "title": "Nuclear famine", "text": "Nuclear famine\n\nNuclear famine is a hypothesized famine considered a potential threat following global or regional nuclear exchange. It is thought that even subtle cooling effects resulting from a regional nuclear exchange could have a substantial impact on agriculture production, triggering a food crisis amongst the world's survivors.\n\nWhile belief in the \"nuclear winter\" hypothesis is both popular and heavily debated, the issue of potential food supply disruption from blast and fallout effects following a nuclear war is less controversial. Several books have been written on the food supply issue, including \"Fallout Protection\", \"Nuclear War Survival Skills\", \"Would the Insects Inherit the Earth and Other Subjects of Concern to Those Who Worry About Nuclear War\", and most recently the extreme nuclear winter and comet impact countermeasuring \"Feeding Everyone No Matter What\".\n\nTogether with these largely introductory texts, more official tomes with a focus on organization, agriculture, and radioecology include \"Nutrition in the Postattack Environment\" by the RAND Corporation, the continuity of government plans for preventing a famine in \"On Reorganizing After Nuclear Attack\", and \"Survival of the Relocated Population of the U.S. After a Nuclear Attack\" by Nobel Prize winner Eugene Wigner, while those focused solely on radioecology and agriculture include \"Effects of Fallout Radiation on Crop Production\", \"Behavior of Radioactive Fallout in Soils and Plants\", and practical countermeasures that were intended to be taken on the individual level in \"Defense Against Radioactive Fallout on the Farm\".\n\nOne of the first works to discuss the problem of fallout, farming, food and supply was Herman Kahn's 1960 publication \"On Thermonuclear War\". Kahn argued that while total war would indeed be an \"unprecedented catastrophe\", food which is slightly-to-moderately contaminated need not be wasted as the ingestion of such food by the elderly would not result in any observable increase in cancer in this cohort. This is due to the fact that, like other common carcinogens such as cigarette smoke, cancers do not immediately emerge after exposure to radiation or specifically from nuclear fallout; instead cancer has a minimum latency period of some 5+ years, which is supported by the research of Project 4.1. It is for this reason that the elderly could eat slight-to-moderately contaminated food without much, if any, ill effect, allowing for the most uncontaminated food to be saved for younger generations.\n\nFrom 1983-1985, in a time period during which the \"nuclear winter\" hypothesis was notably still in its early \"apocalyptic\" 1-D computer model phase, more than 300 physical, atmospheric, agricultural and ecological scientists from over 30 countries around the world came together to participate in the Scientific Committee on Problems of the Environment-Environmental Effects of Nuclear War (SCOPE-ENUWAR) project. This project assessed the global consequences of nuclear war, resulting in a two-volume publication titled \"Environmental Consequences of Nuclear War\", detailing the physical, atmospheric, ecological and agricultural effects of a major nuclear war. In the publication, it is predicted that billions of survivors in the aftermath of nuclear war, even in non-combatant countries, \"may\" experience a dwindling food supply (if the continuity of government countermeasures were not fielded) which plunges survivors into \"massive levels of malnutrition and starvation,\" and in dire situations, \"only a small fraction of the current world population could expect to survive a few years\".\n\nMany processes can be involved leading up to a massive food shortage on a global scale. To begin, crops, stored food and agricultural supplies such as fertilizers and pesticides can be instantly destroyed in nuclear blasts; nuclear contamination of soil, air and water can render food unsafe to eat, and crops unable to grow properly; and uncontrollable fires can impede normal agricultural or food gathering activities. Experts predicted that in the first few years that follow a nuclear war, more complex processes, such as the crippling of the international economy and trade systems, collapse of global food transportation and distribution networks, loss of exportation incentives and importation, drastic climatic stress on the agroecosystems, and associated chaos and disruption in society can spawn to escalate the problem of food shortage.\n\nFollowing the publication of \"Environmental Consequences of Nuclear War\", more studies have emerged based on modeling and analysis of hypothetical nuclear exchanges between nuclear-armed nations. The conclusions of these studies illustrate that a nuclear war is a self-destructive road to mass starvation, and echoed the statement made in \"The Medical Implications of Nuclear War\", a publication by the National Academy of Sciences, that \"the primary mechanism for human fatalities would likely not be from blast effects, not from thermal radiation burns, and not from ionizing radiation, but, rather, from mass starvation\".\n\nWhile the total number of global nuclear weapons had declined by two thirds following the U.S.-Soviet Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) compared to the early 80s, some experts feel that the risk of nuclear conflict has not decreased, but has instead risen. This is due to nuclear proliferation as more countries such as India, Pakistan, and North Korea now have nuclear arsenals, increasing the risk of regional nuclear conflicts. Growing military tensions, accidents, sabotages and cyber-attacks are all potential trigger points of massive nuclear disruption and regional, if not global famine.\n\nBased on the faulty studies, performed early in the 1980s, it was predicted that an American-Soviet nuclear war would project so much light-blocking smoke into the atmosphere, that months to years of \"nuclear winter\" could take place and bring any agricultural activity in the Northern Hemisphere to an acute halt. This was on top of exaggerated concerns, about the development of worldwide toxic photochemical ozone smog from high energy nuclear blasts, which was projected to bring about environmental conditions so disruptive for terrestrial plants and marine planktons to propagate, such that crop and marine harvests will be detrimentally affected.\n\nBiologists have long analyzed that a number of factors arising from \"nuclear winter\" will induce a significant impact on agriculture. For instance, nuclear war in growing seasons can bring about sudden episodes of low temperature (-10 degree Celsius or more) for days to weeks, and drawing reference from the \"year without a summer\" in 1816, episodes of freezing events are capable of destroying a large quantity of crops. In addition, growing season would potentially be shortened, as reported by Robock et al., who calculated that a regional nuclear war between India and Pakistan will substantially reduce freeze-free growing season in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres for several years and devastate agricultural produce as crops do not have sufficient time to reach maturity.\n\nIn contrast, the natural marine ecosystems, a major supplier of food to human societies, are less vulnerable to sudden temperature fall. However, they are highly sensitive to reduced incident sunlight and increased level of UV-B radiation. In the event of a large-scale nuclear war, a mere 25% reduction in ozone is predicted to cause an enhanced UV-B radiation that reduce net photosynthesis in the surface euphotic zone by 35%, and in the whole euphotic zone by 10% (euphotic zone refers to depths in the ocean with light levels sufficient for active photosynthesis). With a corresponding reduction in light available for photosynthesis, phytoplankton populations, in the 1985 book, were expected to plummet, and scientists had even speculated that most of the phytoplankton and herbivorous zooplanktons (that feed on phytoplanktons) in more than half of the Northern Hemisphere oceans would die. More modern appraisals of potential ozone layer issues arising from nuclear fireballs, have determined these earlier assuptions to have been completely unfounded. According to The World Bank, the ocean supplies the world's population with 16% of their animal protein intake; given that the marine food chains are built upon the photosynthesis of phytoplanktons, large-scale nuclear wars, in these 1980s models and books, was regarded as inadvertently devastating fisheries and to affect millions, if not billions of people who rely on the ocean for food.\n\nIn addition to the adverse effects on the agroecosystems, socio-economical factors of war and nuclear destructions also possess far-reaching implications on food availability. It was observed in the aftermath of atomic bombings in Hiroshima and Nagasaki that food was even more scarce as crops in nearby regions were destroyed and distribution of homegrown food from other parts of Japan was cut off as a result of railroad demolitions, when crop production was already affected drastically in previous years by war and poor weather. Not long after the war in 1946, the amount of food available in Japan could only provide individual Japanese with 1325 calories a day, a drop from 2000 calories consumed by an average citizen in 1941. Very soon, crippled distribution system, delayed relief and siphoning of resources from official channels to feed a thriving black market had gone so much out of hand that by the end of 1946, neglecting the input of the black market and looking solely at the official food rations, they could barely provide Japanese in affected cities with 800 calories a day. Although the total death toll due to starvation in Japan immediately after World War II could not be calculated, a distinguished Japanese historian, Daikichi Irokawa, noted that \"immediately after the 1945 defeat, some estimated that 10 million people were likely to starve to death\".\n\nToday, 85% of the nations in the world have low to marginal amount of homegrown food to sustain themselves and are increasingly reliant on well-connected food trade networks for imported food. A recent study (2014) examined the consequences of continental-scale disruptions on wheat and rice trade networks that can occur when global food supply is substantially reduced, such as following a large-scale nuclear war. Considering the tendency for exporting countries to withhold their crops in times of food shortage, the prediction model in this study determined that the amount of wheat and rice exports are reduced combined with losses in export networks. Critically, the authors found that the least developed countries will suffer greater import losses due to financial constraints, and the loss of trade networks will eventually lead to a larger population vulnerable to food shortages.\n\nMuch of the speculative research on nuclear war-induced climate change to date focuses on a hypothetical, large-scale nuclear exchange between modern day Russia and the United States. However, the post-Cold War world also includes a number of other nuclear-armed countries — such as India, Pakistan, and North Korea — that are currently engaged in de facto or frozen armed conflicts with their neighbors. In comparison to \"global\" nuclear war, a regional conflict between nations with relatively small nuclear arsenals would likely produce less dramatic climate effects. Nonetheless, it has been argued that global cooling resulting from such a conflict could have large-scale impacts on agriculture and food supply systems worldwide.\n\nSeveral studies led by Alan Robock of Rutgers University describe this possibility. A 2007 analysis using contemporary climate models found that a hypothetical nuclear exchange between India and Pakistan involving 100 Hiroshima-size bombs (less than 0.1% of the explosive yield of the current global nuclear arsenal) would be sufficient to cause drastic global cooling. The model not only predicted effects consistent with the traditional \"nuclear winter\" concept, but also suggested that climate effects would last longer than previously expected. These effects could include marked changes in normal seasonal patterns, a 10% average decline in rainfall around the world, and \"a cooling of several degrees ... over large areas of North America and Eurasia, including most of the grain-growing regions\".\n\nA related 2012 study assimilated a dynamic agrosystem model to predict the agricultural effects of an India-Pakistan war. The model in this case showed that a regional nuclear war on a separate continent could lead to a significant drop in yield for both corn and soybean production in the American Midwest, with the greatest crop losses occurring five years following the event. Over the ten years following the event, corn production was predicted to decline by an average of 10% and soybean by an average of 6–12%, depending on location. Year-to-year variability was expected to be high, and could be affected by anomalies in temperature, rainfall, and sunlight.\n\nOther studies based on a Robock et al. style India-Pakistan war utilize a different agricultural model to predict effects on rice production in China. After taking into consideration the weather conditions and farming practices specific to different provinces, rice production was predicted to decline by an average of 21% for the first four years and by approximately 10% the following six years. While potential adaptive measures (such as increasing rice plantations in less affected provinces or fertilizer adjustments) could be implemented, these strategies come with their own limitations and consequences—including further environmental pollution. Chinese production of maize and wheat could also be affected. In particular, wheat production in the wake of such an incident could drop by more than 50% in the first year and decline by an average of 39% in the first 5 years.\n\nThe International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War (IPPNW) reported in 2013 that more than two billion people would be at risk of starvation in the event of a limited nuclear exchange, such as one that could occur between India and Pakistan, or by the use of even a small number of the nuclear weapons held by the US and Russia.\n\nThis report argued that the world is in a state in which it is particularly vulnerable to even modest declines in food production. In turn, small changes in average global temperature can have disproportionately large effects on crops. Agricultural studies predicting substantial declines in U.S. and Chinese crop production may be conservative, as they do not take into account ozone depletion or daily temperature extremes. They cite the example of the Mount Tambora volcanic eruption in 1815, which produced an average annual temperature deviation of only −0.7 °C, but which brought mid-summer killing frosts to the mid-Atlantic states and caused up to 75% crop losses in northern Europe.\n\nIn addition, the report authors argue that small perturbations in the food supply are highly amplified for malnourished populations. In particular, about 800 million people are chronically malnourished, and even a 10% decline in their food consumption would put them at risk. World reserves of grain stocks could serve as a buffer to this; however, rough estimates suggest that current reserves would only last approximately 68–77 days.\n\nFamines are also often associated with epidemics. Following the Mount Tambora eruption, an 1816 famine in Ireland triggered a typhus epidemic in Ireland that spread to much of Europe, and the Bengal famine of 1943 was associated with major localized epidemics of cholera, malaria, smallpox, and dysentery. Similarly, the vast and crowded megacities of the developing world could see major outbreaks of infectious disease as a secondary result of famine.\n\nHowever, as reported in a paper published in the journal \"Public Health Reports\", it is one of a number of prevalent myths that infectious diseases always occur after a disaster in cities. \n\n"}
{"id": "47382189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47382189", "title": "Obalufon Alayemore", "text": "Obalufon Alayemore\n\nObalufon Alayemore was the 5th Ooni of Ife, a paramount traditional ruler of Ile Ife, the ancestral home of the Yorubas. He succeeded his father Obalufon Ogbogbodirin and was succeeded by Ooni Oranmiyan.\n"}
{"id": "27588400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27588400", "title": "Occupation earth", "text": "Occupation earth\n\nOccupation earth is the set of deposits believed to represent in-situ settlement at an archeological site. Typically, it may contain domestic refuse, pot sherds, tools, animal remains, and ash/charcoal from hearths and ovens.\n\nThis may become layered, where more than one period of inhabitation is represented.\n\nEarthworms are believed to play an important role in the creation of occupation earth. The worms penetrate floors of buildings and leave a layer of castings on the surface, this layer is then colonised by more worms whose action buries coins and other archaeological artefacts.\n"}
{"id": "49202512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49202512", "title": "Oksana Bulgakowa", "text": "Oksana Bulgakowa\n\nOksana Bulgakowa (born February 18, 1954 in Nikopol, Soviet Union) is a professor of film history and film analysis at the University of Mainz, the 'managed 2008–2011 the' Institute of Film Studies and Media Dramaturgy 'before it was' joined other institutions to the' 'Institute for film, theater and empirical cultural studies', which Executive Director she was until 2014.\n\nBulgakowa completed in 1977 a five-year study of film theory and history at Allunionsinstitut of Cinematography (VGIK) in Moscow, and then followed her husband Dietmar Hochmuth in the DDR where a Szenaristenlehrgang at the graduated Academy of Film and Television in Potsdam-Babelsberg.\n\n1982 doctorate at the Humboldt University of Berlin to Dr. phil. the technical theory of Performing Arts. As a Researcher, she worked for institutions such as the Institute of Performing Arts, the Research Group on film the Academy of Arts of the GDR (1984–1990). After the wall came down, she was at the Friends of the German Cinematheque and the International Forum of New Cinema (1990–1993), the development agency scientific new projects (1994– 1996) and at the Ruhr-Universität Bochum on Lotman – Institute for Russian and Soviet Culture (2002–2005) worked.\n\nOksana Bulgakowa taught at the Humboldt University, the Drama School Leipzig and Freie Universität Berlin. As a visiting professor she taught at the universities Stanford University (1998–2004) and University of California Berkeley (2004), before being appointed in 2004 as professor at the International Film School Cologne.\n\nAt the center of scientific and editorial Bulgakowa's work are life and work of Sergei Eisenstein. She has written and edited books on the director and theoretician. They also explored specific aspects of Russian-Soviet film history.\n\nShe was also curator of several exhibitions (including \"Moscow – Berlin, Berlin – Moscow, 1990-1950\", Martin-Gropius-Bau, Berlin 1995; \"Sergei Eisenstein: The Mexican Drawings\", Antwerp 2009).\n\nIn addition, she worked as a writer and director, the film essays The Different Faces of Sergei Eisenstein (in collaboration with Dietmar Hochmuth) and Stalin - A Mosfilmproduktion (in collaboration with Frieda Grafe and Enno Patalas) and The Factory of Gestures. Body Language in Film (2008).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2340914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2340914", "title": "Olympia Fulvia Morata", "text": "Olympia Fulvia Morata\n\nOlimpia Fulvia Morata (1526 – 26 October 1555) was an Italian classical scholar. She was born in Ferrara to Fulvio Pellegrino Morato and a certain Lucrezia (possibly Gozi).\n\nHer father, who had been tutor to the young princes of the ducal house of Este, was on intimate terms with the most learned men of Italy, and the daughter grew up in an atmosphere of classical learning. At the age of twelve she was able to converse fluently in Greek and Latin.\n\nAbout this time she was summoned to the palace as companion and instructor of the younger but equally gifted Anna d'Este, daughter of Renata, duchess of Ferrara. Many people with literary fame or Protestant leanings, like John Calvin, Vittoria Colonna and Clément Marot visited the court of the duchess. In her teens Olympia lectured on Cicero and Calvin's works.\n\nIn 1546 she left court to take care of her ailing father and, after his death, she took care of the education of her brothers and sisters. Olympia's father died a convert to Protestantism, and Olympia embraced the doctrines of Luther and Calvin. When she returned to court, Anna d'Este's marriage to Francis, Duke of Guise left Olympia isolated. She spent her time studying philosophy and corresponded with Gasparo Sardi, who dedicated his \"De Triplici Philosophia\" to her.\n\nAbout the end of 1550, she married a young student of medicine and philosophy, Andreas Grundler of Schweinfurt in Bavaria. In 1554 she accompanied Grundler to his place of birth, where he had been appointed physician to the garrison of Spanish troops. In 1553 the margrave Albert of Brandenburg on one of his plundering expeditions took possession of Schweinfurt, and was in turn besieged by the Protestants. At length Albert evacuated the place, and Olympia and her husband made their escape. In the course of these events many of her writings were lost.\n\nThey finally succeeded in reaching Heidelberg in 1554 where a medical lectureship had been obtained for Grundler through the influence of the Erbach family, by whom they had been hospitably entertained during their flight.\n\nIn 1558, after her death, a major collection of some of her Greek letters and Latin dialogues was published in Basel, a labour which she entrusted to her friend and correspondent Caelius Secundus Curio.\n\n"}
{"id": "266307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266307", "title": "Outlaw", "text": "Outlaw\n\nIn historical legal systems, an outlaw is declared as outside the protection of the law. In pre-modern societies, the criminal is withdrawn all legal protection, so that anyone is legally empowered to persecute or kill them. Outlawry was thus one of the harshest penalties in the legal system. In early Germanic law, the death penalty is conspicuously absent, and outlawing is the most extreme punishment, presumably amounting to a death sentence in practice. The concept is known from Roman law, as the status of \"homo sacer\", and persisted throughout the Middle Ages.\n\nIn the common law of England, a \"Writ of Outlawry\" made the pronouncement \"Caput lupinum\" (\"Let his be a wolf's head\", literally \"May he bear a wolfish head\") with respect to its subject, using \"head\" to refer to the entire person (cf. \"per capita\") and equating that person with a wolf (warg) in the eyes of the law: not only was the subject deprived of all legal rights of the law being outside the \"law\", but others could kill him on sight as if he were a wolf or other wild animal. Women were declared \"waived\" rather than outlawed but it was effectively the same punishment.\n\nAmong other forms of exile, Roman law included the penalty of \"interdicere aquae et ignis\" (\"to forbid water and fire\"). People so penalized were required to leave Roman territory and forfeit their property. If they returned, they were effectively outlaws; providing them the use of fire or water was illegal, and they could be killed at will without legal penalty.\n\n\"Interdicere aquae et ignis\" was traditionally imposed by the tribune of the plebs, and is attested to have been in use during the First Punic War of the third century BC by Cato the Elder. It was later also applied by many other officials, such as the Senate, magistrates, and Julius Caesar as a general and provincial governor during the Gallic Wars. It fell out of use during the early Empire.\n\nAlso see: Homo sacer.\n\nIn English common law, an outlaw was a person who had defied the laws of the realm, by such acts as ignoring a summons to court, or fleeing instead of appearing to plead when charged with a crime.\n\nThe term \"outlawry \"referred to the formal procedure of declaring someone an outlaw, i.e. putting him outside the sphere of legal protection. In the common law of England, a judgment of (criminal) outlawry was one of the harshest penalties in the legal system, since the outlaw could not use the legal system for protection, e.g. from mob justice. To be declared an outlaw was to suffer a form of civil or social death. The outlaw was debarred from all civilized society. No one was allowed to give him food, shelter, or any other sort of support – to do so was to commit the crime of aiding and abetting, and to be in danger of the ban oneself. A more recent concept of \"wanted dead or alive\" is similar, but implies that a trial is desired (namely if the wanted person is returned alive), whereas outlawry precludes a trial.\n\nAn outlaw might be killed with impunity; and it was not only lawful but meritorious to kill a thief fleeing from justice — to do so was not murder. A man who slew a thief was expected to declare the fact without delay, otherwise the dead man’s kindred might clear his name by their oath and require the slayer to pay weregild as for a true man.\n\nBy the rules of common law, a criminal outlaw did not need to be guilty of the crime for which he was an outlaw. If a man was accused of a treason or felony but failed to appear in court to defend himself, he was deemed to be convicted of the said offence. If he was accused of a misdemeanour, then he was guilty of a serious contempt of court which was itself a capital crime.\n\nIn the context of criminal law, outlawry faded out, not so much by legal changes as by the greater population density of the country, which made it harder for wanted fugitives to evade capture; and by the adoption of international extradition pacts. It was obsolete by the time the offence was abolished in 1938.. Outlawry was, however, a living practice as of 1855: in 1841, a William John Bankes, formerly a MP on several times 1810...1835, was outlawed by due process of law for absenting himself from trial for indecent exposure, and died in 1855 in Venice as an outlaw.\n\nThere was also a doctrine of civil outlawry. Civil outlawry did not carry the sentence of capital punishment. It was however imposed on defendants who fled or evaded justice when sued for civil actions like debts or torts. The punishments for civil outlawry were nevertheless harsh, including confiscation of chattels (movable property) left behind by the outlaw.\n\nIn the civil context, outlawry became obsolescent in civil procedure by reforms that no longer required summoned defendants to appear and plead. Still, the possibility of being declared an outlaw for derelictions of civil duty continued to exist in English law until 1879 and, in Scots law until the late 1940s. Since then, failure to find the defendant and serve process is usually interpreted in favour of the plaintiff, and harsh penalties for mere nonappearance (merely presumed flight to escape justice) no longer apply.\n\nOutlawry also existed in other ancient legal codes, such as the ancient Norse and Icelandic legal code.\n\nIn early modern times, the term Vogelfrei and its cognates came to be used in Germany, the Low Countries and Scandinavia, referring to a person stripped of his civil rights being \"free\" for the taking like a bird.\nIn Germany and Slavic countries in 15th–19th centuries groups of outlaws composed from former prisoners, soldiers etc. became an important social phenomenon. They lived from robbery and their activity was often supported by local inhabitants from lower classes (as a form of a social people resistance against oppressive political and economic systems). The best known are Juraj Jánošík and Jakub Surovec in Slovakia, Oleksa Dovbush in Ukraine, Rózsa Sándor in Hungary, Schinderhannes and Hans Kohlhase in Germany etc.\n\nThe concept of outlawry was reintroduced to British law by several Australian colonial governments in the late 19th century to deal with the menace of bushranging. The Felons Apprehension Act (1865) of New South Wales provided that a judge could, upon proof of sufficiently notorious conduct, issue a special bench warrant requiring a person to submit themselves to police custody before a given date, or be declared an outlaw. An outlawed person could be apprehended \"alive or dead\" by any of the Queen's subjects, \"whether a constable or not\", and without \"being accountable for using of any deadly weapon in aid of such apprehension.\" Similar provisions were passed in Victoria and Queensland. Although the provisions of the New South Wales Felons Apprehension Act were not exercised after the end of the bushranging era, they remained on the statute book until 1976.\n\nThe Third Reich made extensive use of outlawry in the persecution of Jews or other persons deemed undesirable to the state.\n\nThere have been many instances in military and/or political conflicts throughout History whereby one side declares the other as being \"illegal\", notorious cases being the use of Proscription in Republican Rome's civil wars. In later times there was the notable case of Napoleon Bonaparte whom the Congress of Vienna, on 13 March 1815, .\n\nIn modern times, the government of the First Spanish Republic, unable to reduce the Cantonalist rebellion centered in Cartagena, Spain, declared the Cartagena fleet to be \"piratic\", which allowed any nation to prey on it.\n\nTaking the opposite road, some outlaws became political leaders, such as Ethiopia's Kassa Hailu who became Emperor Tewodros II of Ethiopia.\n\nThough the judgment of outlawry is now obsolete (even though it inspired the \"pro forma\" Outlawries Bill which is still to this day introduced in the British House of Commons during the State Opening of Parliament), romanticised outlaws became stock characters in several fictional settings. This was particularly so in the United States, where outlaws were popular subjects of newspaper coverage and stories in the 19th century, and 20th century fiction and Western movies. Thus, \"outlaw\" is still commonly used to mean those violating the law or, by extension, those living that lifestyle, whether actual criminals evading the law or those merely opposed to \"law-and-order\" notions of conformity and authority (such as the \"outlaw country\" music movement in the 1970s).\n\n"}
{"id": "31169034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31169034", "title": "Robert Goldwyn", "text": "Robert Goldwyn\n\nRobert Malcolm Goldwyn (Worcester, Massachusetts, 1930–2010) was an American surgeon; an author, activist, Professor of Surgery at Harvard Medical School, and Chief of Plastic Surgery at the Beth Israel Hospital from 1972 to 1996. He was the editor-in-chief of \"Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery\" for 25 years.\n\nGoldwyn was senior class president and graduated from Worcester Academy in 1948 with second honors. He matriculated to Harvard College, then graduated as a M.D. from Harvard Medical School. During his internship and residency (1956–1961) at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts he was also the Harvey Cushing Fellow in Surgery. His training in plastic surgery was at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center from 1961 to 1963.\n\nIn 1960, he worked with Dr. Albert Schweitzer in Lambaréné, Gabon for two months. In 1972, he established The National Archives of Plastic Surgery in the Francis A. Countway Library of Medicine.\n\nHe was a founding member of Physicians for Social Responsibility and wrote articles on world peace, opposition to chemical and biological warfare, and medical ethics.\n\nWhen the New England Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons established the Robert M. Goldwyn Lifetime Achievement Award and made Goldwyn its first recipient, he stated, \"I do not really deserve this. But as Jack Benny said, ‘I have arthritis and I don't deserve that either.’\n\nGoldwyn was a Visiting Professor to more than 70 institutions, universities, and hospitals in the United States and abroad and was an honorary member of more than a dozen national and international societies of plastic surgery. He was President of the 1994 Meeting of the American Association of Plastic Surgeons in St. Louis, Missouri. He was honored by France, Germany, and Italy with their highest medals for his work in plastic and reconstructive surgery. In Berlin, at the 2007 International Confederation for Plastic, Reconstructive and Aesthetic Surgery, he presented the inaugural \"Ulrich Hinderer Memorial Lecture\". His other awards include the 2005 Honorary Kazanjian Lectureship, 1991 Clinician of the Year of the American Association of Plastic Surgeons, the 2004 American Association of Plastic Surgeons Honorary Award, and the Presidential Citation of the American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons.\n\nAs a writer, he authored or co-authored more than 350 articles, more than 50 chapters, and edited books including \"The Unfavorable Result in Plastic Surgery: Avoidance and Treatment\", \"Reconstructive Surgery of the Breast\", \"Long-Term Results in Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery\", \"Reduction Mammaplasty\", \"The Patient and the Plastic Surgeon\", \"The Operative Note\", \"The Physician Traveler\" (18 volumes), and an autobiography, \"Beyond Appearance: Reflections of a Plastic Surgeon\".\n\nMarking his retirement in 2004 as editor-in-chief of \"Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery\", Goldwyn was presented the American Society of Plastic Surgeons Special Recognition Award during the Plastic Surgery 2004 opening ceremonies in Philadelphia. The Journal's circulation, which was 5,100 when Goldwyn took over in 1980, by 2004 had achieved the number one peer-reviewed impact factor among all plastic surgery journals worldwide.\n\nHis final book, \"Retired not dead: thoughts plastic surgical and otherwise,\" was published in 2008.\n\nAt the age of 79, he died in his home in Brookline, Massachusetts on March 23, 2010 after a 16-year battle with prostate cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "45344250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45344250", "title": "Rudolf Steiner's Mystery Dramas", "text": "Rudolf Steiner's Mystery Dramas\n\nRudolf Steiner wrote four plays that follow the initiation journeys of a group of fictional characters through a series of lives. These plays were intended to be modern mystery plays. Steiner outlined the plot of a fifth play to be set at the Castalian spring at Delphi, but due to the outbreak of First World War, this remained an unfulfilled project.\n\nThe titles of the completed plays are:\n\nIn these four plays. Steiner intended to show how spiritual development might manifest in a karmically-intertwined group of people. The experiences of the main characters of the play, particularly Johannes Thomasius, Capesius and Strader, represent aspects of the path of initiation \"differing according to the karma of the respective individualities.\"\n\nSteiner based the first play on Goethe's \"Tale of the Green Snake and the Beautiful Lily\". In his first draft of the play, the names of the characters were those of the characters in Goethe's tale, but in the course of his work, he replaced the fairytale characters with characters of his own imagination. The following table shows the names from Goethe's fairy tale and the characters these turned into in this first drama:\nThe characters of Helena and Lucifer have no precedent in Goethe's fairy tale and were to be played by the same actress.\n\nIn 1907, at the Munich Theosophical Congress, Rudolf Steiner had directed a play by Édouard Schuré, \"The Sacred Drama of Eleusis\". Two years later, Steiner staged Schuré's \"The Children of Lucifer\". At this time, Steiner was looking for a spiritual content and artistic form that could reflect what he believed to be a new age in human consciousness. \n\nFor the first time in dramatic poetry, Rudolf Steiner in his dramas presents the driving forces of destiny events, openly and consistently on the stage. The success of the characterizing people towards the inevitability of fate, has always been the main nerve of tragic poetry, and Steiner's characters also remain true to these causes, which are ultimately enigmatic. Rudolf Steiner was the background of the fate complications to their true causes, namely karmic entanglements in former lives on earth, returning and brought dramatically to display in the present for the characters on stage. This is a critical and necessary impetus for the progress of dramatic art, even if it may take long time until it is taken up more widely by the public.\n\nLectures on The Portal of Initiation:\n\nLectures on The Trial of the Soul:\n\nLectures on The Guardian of the Threshold:\n\nLectures on The Soul's Awakening:\n\nAdolf Arenson composed the original music to accompany the four plays. Later productions had music by Elmar Lampson and Pedro Guiraud.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "167742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167742", "title": "Scientism", "text": "Scientism\n\nScientism is an ideology that promotes science as the purportedly objective means by which society should determine normative and epistemological values. The term \"scientism\" is generally used critically, pointing to the cosmetic application of science in unwarranted situations not amenable to application of the scientific method or similar scientific standards. \n\nIn philosophy of science, the term \"scientism\" frequently implies a critique of the more extreme expressions of logical positivism and has been used by social scientists such as Friedrich Hayek, philosophers of science such as Karl Popper, and philosophers such as Hilary Putnam and Tzvetan Todorov to describe (for example) the dogmatic endorsement of scientific methodology and the reduction of all knowledge to only that which is measured or confirmatory.\n\nMore generally, scientism is often interpreted as science applied \"in excess\". The term \"scientism\" has two senses:\n\n\nIt is also sometimes used to describe universal applicability of the scientific method and approach, and the view that empirical science constitutes the most authoritative worldview or the most valuable part of human learning—to the complete exclusion of other viewpoints, such as historical, philosophical, economic or cultural worldviews. It has been defined as \"the view that the characteristic inductive methods of the natural sciences are the only source of genuine factual knowledge and, in particular, that they alone can yield true knowledge about man and society\". The term \"scientism\" is also used by historians, philosophers, and cultural critics to highlight the possible dangers of lapses towards excessive reductionism in all fields of human knowledge.\n\nFor social theorists in the tradition of Max Weber, such as Jürgen Habermas and Max Horkheimer, the concept of scientism relates significantly to the philosophy of positivism, but also to the cultural rationalization for modern Western civilization. British novelist Sara Maitland has called scientism a \"myth as pernicious as any sort of fundamentalism.\"\n\nReviewing the references to scientism in the works of contemporary scholars, Gregory R. Peterson detects two main broad themes:\n\nThe term \"scientism\" was popularized by the Nobel Prize winner F.A. Hayek, who defined it as the \"slavish imitation of the method and language of Science\". Karl Popper defines scientism as \"the aping of what is widely mistaken for the method of science\".\n\nMikael Stenmark proposes the expression \"scientific expansionism\" as a synonym of scientism. In the \"Encyclopedia of science and religion\", he writes that, while the doctrines that are described as scientism have many possible forms and varying degrees of ambition, they share the idea that the boundaries of science (that is, typically the natural sciences) could and should be expanded so that something that has not been previously considered as a subject pertinent to science can now be understood as part of science (usually with science becoming the sole or the main arbiter regarding this area or dimension).\n\nAccording to Stenmark, the strongest form of scientism states that science has no boundaries and that all human problems and all aspects of human endeavor, with due time, will be dealt with and solved by science alone. This idea has also been called the Myth of Progress.\n\nE. F. Schumacher, in his \"A Guide for the Perplexed\", criticized scientism as an impoverished world view confined solely to what can be counted, measured and weighed. \"The architects of the modern worldview, notably Galileo and Descartes, assumed that those things that could be weighed, measured, and counted were more true than those that could not be quantified. If it couldn't be counted, in other words, it didn't count.\"\n\nIntellectual historian T.J. Jackson Lears argues there has been a recent reemergence of \"nineteenth-century positivist faith that a reified 'science' has discovered (or is about to discover) all the important truths about human life. Precise measurement and rigorous calculation, in this view, are the basis for finally settling enduring metaphysical and moral controversies.\" Lears specifically identifies Harvard psychologist Steven Pinker's work as falling in this category. Philosophers John N. Gray and Thomas Nagel have leveled similar criticisms against popular works by moral psychologist Jonathan Haidt, neuroscientist Sam Harris, and writer Malcolm Gladwell.\n\nGenetic biologist Austin L. Hughes wrote in conservative journal \"The New Atlantis\" that scientism has much in common with superstition: \"the stubborn insistence that something...has powers which no evidence supports.\"\n\nSeveral scholars use the term to describe the work of vocal critics of religion-as-such. Individuals associated with New Atheism have garnered this label from both religious and non-religious scholars. Theologian John Haught argues that Daniel Dennett and other new atheists subscribe to a belief system of scientific naturalism, which holds the central dogma that \"only nature, including humans and our creations, is real: that God does not exist; and that science alone can give us complete and reliable knowledge of reality.\" Haught argues that this belief system is self-refuting since it requires its adherents to assent to beliefs that violate its own stated requirements for knowledge. Christian Philosopher Peter Williams argues that it is only by conflating science with scientism that new atheists feel qualified to \"pontificate on metaphysical issues.\" Philosopher Daniel Dennett responded to religious criticism of his book \"\" by saying that accusations of scientism \"[are] an all-purpose, wild-card smear... When someone puts forward a scientific theory that [religious critics] really don't like, they just try to discredit it as 'scientism'. But when it comes to facts, and explanations of facts, science is the only game in town\".\n\nNon-religious scholars have also linked New Atheist thought with scientism. Atheist philosopher Thomas Nagel argues that neuroscientist Sam Harris conflates all empirical knowledge with that of scientific knowledge. Marxist literary critic Terry Eagleton argues that Christopher Hitchens possesses an \"old-fashioned scientistic notion of what counts as evidence\" that reduces knowledge to what can and cannot be proven by scientific procedure. Agnostic philosopher Anthony Kenny has also criticized New Atheist philosopher Alexander Rosenberg's \"The Atheist's Guide to Reality\" for resurrecting a self-refuting epistemology of logical positivism and reducing all knowledge of the universe to the discipline of physics.\n\nMichael Shermer, founder of The Skeptics Society, draws a parallel between scientism and traditional religious movements, pointing to the cult of personality that develops around some scientists in the public eye. He defines scientism as a worldview that encompasses natural explanations, eschews supernatural and paranormal speculations, and embraces empiricism and reason.\n\nThe Iranian scholar Seyyed Hossein Nasr has stated that in the Western world, many will accept the ideology of modern science, not as \"simple ordinary science\", but as a replacement for religion.\n\nGregory R. Peterson writes that \"for many theologians and philosophers, scientism is among the greatest of intellectual sins\".\n\nIn his essay \"Against Method\", Paul Feyerabend characterizes science as \"an essentially anarchic enterprise\" and argues emphatically that science merits no exclusive monopoly over \"dealing in knowledge\" and that scientists have never operated within a distinct and narrowly self-defined tradition. He depicts the process of contemporary scientific education as a mild form of indoctrination, aimed at \"making the history of science duller, simpler, more uniform, more 'objective' and more easily accessible to treatment by strict and unchanging rules.\"\n\nThomas M. Lessl argues that religious themes persist in what he calls scientism, the public rhetoric of science. There are two methodologies that illustrate this idea of scientism. One is the epistemological approach, the assumption that the scientific method trumps other ways of knowing and the ontological approach, that the rational mind reflects the world and both operate in knowable ways. According to Lessl, the ontological approach is an attempt to \"resolve the conflict between rationalism and skepticism\". Lessl also argues that without scientism, there would not be a scientific culture.\n\nPhilosopher of religion Keith Ward has said scientism is philosophically inconsistent or even self-refuting, as the truth of the statements \"no statements are true unless they can be proven scientifically (or logically)\" or \"no statements are true unless they can be shown empirically to be true\" cannot themselves be proven scientifically, logically, or empirically.\n\nIn the introduction to his collected oeuvre on the sociology of religion, Max Weber asks why \"the scientific, the artistic, the political, or the economic development [elsewhere]… did not enter upon that path of rationalization which is peculiar to the Occident?\" According to the distinguished German social theorist, Jürgen Habermas, \"For Weber, the intrinsic (that is, not merely contingent) relationship between modernity and what he called 'Occidental rationalism' was still self-evident.\" Weber described a process of rationalisation, disenchantment and the \"disintegration of religious world views\" that resulted in modern secular societies and capitalism.\nHabermas is critical of pure instrumental rationality, arguing that the \"Social Life–World\" is better suited to literary expression, the former being \"intersubjectively accessible experiences\" that can be generalized in a formal language, while the latter \"must generate an intersubjectivity of mutual understanding in each concrete case\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6832258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6832258", "title": "Sinai bus crash", "text": "Sinai bus crash\n\nThe Sinai bus crash was a bus accident in the Sinai Peninsula in August 2006 which left twelve Israeli tourists dead. The tourists, who were Israeli Arabs, were riding a chartered bus as part of a convoy of eight buses carrying Arab tourists. The bus overturned and landed upside down between Nuweiba and Taba. The survivors claimed the driver intentionally crashed the bus and the incident was a terrorist attack.\n\nIsrael sent 40 ambulances from Magen David Adom with emergency crews to assist the casualties, but Egyptian security forces at the Taba Border Crossing held them up, while Egyptian rescue forces only arrived after an hour, with European tourists helping to rescue the wounded. The Egyptians evacuated the passengers who sustained severe injuries to hospitals in Nuweiba and Sharm el-Sheikh, while those who sustained lighter injuries were taken to the Taba border terminal and received by Magen David Adom personnel at the scene. Egyptian authorities delayed the passage of victims who wanted to cross into Israel via Taba, and made it difficult for those being treated in Egyptian hospitals to transfer to Israel for treatment. The delay in medical attention is blamed for at least one death. Those hospitalized in Egypt also alleged poor treatment in Egyptian hospitals. Israeli Air Force helicopters later airlifted some of the victims being treated in Egypt to Israeli hospitals.\n\nIn the aftermath of the attack, the Eilat Police set up an emergency command post in the city, where some of the injured were evacuated to for treatment, a team from the Israeli Embassy in Cairo visited the site, and the Israeli Interior Ministry issued a temporary order allowing all Israelis in the Sinai to return to Israel even without a passport.\n\nThe Egyptian driver was convicted of negligence by an Egyptian court and sentenced to one year in prison. Egyptian authorities were accused of deliberately handing down a lenient sentence and treating the victims' families in a deplorable way. The mayor of the local council of Kafr Manda, where three of the dead came from, said Egypt treated them badly because they were Israeli citizens.\n\nBased on evidence amassed since the crash, the survivors maintain that the attack was premeditated. They believe that the initial plan was to kill Jews, but that the terrorist cell decided not to abort the plan even when they discovered that the passengers were Arabs.\n\nAccording to one of the survivors, a newlywed whose wife was killed in the crash, \"The entire ride the driver was very nervous. The driver said to us: you got Jewish education, you are the trash of the Jews and that we are traitors. When we asked him to turn on the air conditioning, he refused, saying 'soon you will all be very cold'. After the bus overturned, he walked out, stepped into a car that was waiting for him, and disappeared.\"\n\nThe victims submitted compensation claims to Israel’s Terror Victim Fund on the basis of these charges, but they claimed that for political convenience, the two governments classified the tragedy as an accident, a ruling disputed legally.\n\n"}
{"id": "58742251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58742251", "title": "Southern French Gothic", "text": "Southern French Gothic\n\nSouthern French Gothic () is a specific style of Gothic architecture developed in the south of France. It arose in the early 13th century following the victory of the Catholic church over the Cathars, as the church sought to re-establish its authority in the region, and as a result church buildings typically present features drawn from military architecture. Southern French Gothic is simpler and less ornate than northern French Gothic, and differs also in that the construction material is typically brick rather than stone. In time the style came to influence secular buildings as well as churches, and spread beyond the area where Catharism had flourished.\n\nDuring the rise of Catharism, the luxury of Roman Catholic Church was constantly criticized by the Cathar ecclesiastics. After the political eradication of the Cathar aristocracy during the Albigensian crusade (1209-1229), the clergy of southern France understood that after having won the war, it was necessary for them to win back the minds of the population. In addition to setting up the Medieval Inquisition, they adopted a more austere and uncluttered architectural style.\n\nSouthern French Gothic, as its name suggests, is found in the southern part of France, mainly in the regions where Catharism had developed, and which were subjected to religious and military repression from the North. The reconquest by the Catholic hierarchy gave rise to the construction or reconstruction of many religious buildings, but also of secular ones. The regions concerned are therefore the current départements of the Haute-Garonne (Toulouse), the Tarn (Albi), the Tarn-et-Garonne (Montauban), the Ariège, the Gers, the Aude, the Pyrénées-Orientales, the Hérault, with instances in neighboring départements as well.\n\nSouthern French Gothic is characterized by the austerity of the constructions, such as the use of solid buttresses rather than flying buttresses, while the openings are few and narrow. Romanesque architecture persisted for longer in the south of France than in the north, and the transition to Gothic was progressive. Many of the buildings in the Southern Gothic style are thus built with a single nave, and are covered by roof-frames resting on diaphragm arches.\n\nIn an area poor in stone, the typical construction material was brick, whose use in the Southern French Gothic of the regions of Toulouse, Montauban, and Albi became one of its distinguishing marks. The builders used techniques adapted to this material, such as the mitre arches typical of this style. Brick lends itself to geometric decorative compositions, and consequently there are few sculptures integrated into the architecture. Depending on the type of clay used, the bricks can be molded or rounded by abrasion. Some buildings use stone sparingly to create colour contrasts.\n\nNeighbouring regions coming under this influence but dominated by stone construction often adopted the same architectural vocabulary.\n\nAfter the Cathar episode, one goal of the Catholic church was the recovery of the faithful through preaching (hence the foundation by Dominique de Guzmán of the order of the Friars Preachers). To this end the preference was for the single nave, which promotes acoustics and places all the faithful under the gaze of the preacher. The nave is lined with side chapels, lodged between the buttresses, and surmounted by large windows that illuminate it.\n\nHowever, the presence of a single nave is not necessarily related to this desire, but may be related to other considerationssuch as a single pre-existing nave. Conversely, the very wide nave of the Jacobins of Toulouse is divided by a row of pillars, but is nevertheless a single entity.\n\nThe bell towers can be of all types, but two forms stand out: the \"Toulouse\" bell tower, and the wall belfry.\n\nIn the Toulouse region the typical bell tower appeared in the Romanesque period, with an octagonal floor plan and storeys progressively decreasing in size. In the transition to Gothic, only the shape of the bays changed. Bell towers are usually surmounted by a spire, but a certain number of these are missing, either because they have been destroyed, or because the construction was interrupted. The typical example is the bell tower of Saint-Sernin of Toulouse, enhanced in the Gothic period with mitre arches succeeding the Romanesque arched windows, but there are also ogival bays.\nThe other form of bell tower, more common in smaller buildings, is the wall belfry, also frequently characterised by mitre arches, and often resembling fortifications in having elements such as battlements and machicolations.\n\nDefensive elements such as battlements, machicolations, walkways, and watchtowers are frequent in Southern Gothic churches. Most of the time, except in cases where the church is included in a defensive system, these elements have only a decorative and especially a symbolic role, tending to assert the power of the Church. At the church of Notre-Dame de Simorre, it was the 19th-century architect and conservationist Eugène Viollet-le-Duc who added battlements and watchtowers to the top of the buttresses.\n\nThe term \"Southern French Gothic\" is applied mainly to buildings of worship, churches and cathedrals. The same architectural principles of sobriety of construction, absence or limitation of carved decoration, massive appearance, and defensive elements can however be found in buildings used for other purposes. Examples in Toulouse include mansions and the Saint-Raymond College; in Albi, the Berbie Palace, etc ...\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5254172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5254172", "title": "Stella Tillyard", "text": "Stella Tillyard\n\nStella Tillyard is an English author and historian born on 16 January 1957, best known for her popular work \"Aristocrats: Caroline, Emily, Louisa and Sarah Lennox, 1740–1832\", which was made into a BBC mini-series in 1999.\n\nBritish-born Stella Tillyard attended Norwich High School for Girls. She read English literature at Oxford University then became a Knox Fellow at Harvard. She went on to teach English literature and art history at Harvard, and at UCLA. Her PhD on 20th-century art criticism, completed in 1985, was published as \"The Impact of Modernism\" in 1987. From 1985–86 she attended the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. She has taught at Harvard, UCLA, and the University of London. She lives in Italy and England, was married to the historian John Brewer, and has two children. \n\nHer novel \"Tides of War\", set in the Regency period, appeared in May 2011. The author discussed in a magazine article the challenges of veracity faced by a writer of history and likewise of a historical novel: \"No writer (including the professional historian) can ever really get beyond the envelope of self... Are historians providing the master narratives of our times and historical novelists merely tinkering around the edges?\"\n\nThe bibliographical information is taken from the online biography.\n\n\"Aristocrats\" was described as \"compulsively readable\" by \"The New York Times\" Book Review and \"singular and remarkable\" by \"The Washington Post\" \"A Royal Affair\" was described by \"The New York Times\" as \"scrupulously researched,\" but \"looking at history sentimentally.\" \"The Daily Telegraph\" (London) called \"Tides of War\" \"a remarkably instructive novel\" by \"a fluent and attractive chronicler of historical detail,\" but added that \"the responsibility of entwining fact and fiction has had a slightly dampening effect on Tillyard's novel.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "29128233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29128233", "title": "Teige Mac Conmidhe", "text": "Teige Mac Conmidhe\n\nTeige Mac Conmidhe, Irish poet and historian, died 1493.\n\nUnder the year 1493, the Annals of the Four Masters noted the death of \"Mac Namee, i.e. Teige, the son of Conor Roe, son of Eachmarcach, an eminent poet and a good scholar.\"\n\nThe circumstances of his death was that Mac Conmidhe \"was slain by a labourer, one of his own people. i.e. the son of O'Clumhain.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "128422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128422", "title": "Thomas Carlyle", "text": "Thomas Carlyle\n\nThomas Carlyle (4 December 17955 February 1881) was a Scottish philosopher, satirical writer, essayist, translator, historian, mathematician, and teacher. Considered one of the most important social commentators of his time, he presented many lectures during his lifetime with certain acclaim in the Victorian era. One of those conferences resulted in his famous work \"On Heroes, Hero-Worship, and The Heroic in History\" where he explains that the key role in history lies in the actions of the \"Great Man\", claiming that \"the history of the world is but the biography of great men\".\n\nA respected historian, his 1837 book \"\" was the inspiration for Charles Dickens' 1859 novel \"A Tale of Two Cities\", and remains popular today. Carlyle's 1836 \"Sartor Resartus\" is a notable philosophical novel.\n\nA great polemicist, Carlyle coined the term \"the dismal science\" for economics, in his essay \"Occasional Discourse on the Negro Question\". He also wrote articles for the \"Edinburgh Encyclopædia\", and his \"Occasional Discourse on the Negro Question\" (1849) remains controversial. Once a Christian, Carlyle lost his faith while attending the University of Edinburgh, later adopting a form of deism.\n\nIn mathematics, he is known for the Carlyle circle, a method used in quadratic equations and for developing ruler-and-compass constructions of regular polygons.\n\nCarlyle was born in Ecclefechan in Dumfriesshire. His parents determinedly afforded him an education at Annan Academy, Annan, where he was bullied and tormented so much that he left after three years. His father was a member of the Burgher secession church. In early life, his family's (and nation's) strong Calvinist beliefs powerfully influenced the young man.\n\nAfter attending the University of Edinburgh, Carlyle became a mathematics teacher, first in Annan and then in Kirkcaldy, where he became close friends with the mystic Edward Irving. (Confusingly, there is another Scottish Thomas Carlyle, born a few years later, connected to Irving via work with the Catholic Apostolic Church.)\n\nIn 1819–1821, Carlyle returned to the University of Edinburgh, where he suffered an intense crisis of faith and a conversion, which provided the material for \"Sartor Resartus\" (\"The Tailor Retailored\"), which first brought him to the public's notice.\n\nCarlyle developed a painful stomach ailment, possibly gastric ulcers, that remained throughout his life and likely contributed to his reputation as a crotchety, argumentative, somewhat disagreeable personality. His prose style, famously cranky and occasionally savage, helped cement an air of irascibility.\nCarlyle's thinking became heavily influenced by German idealism, in particular the work of Johann Gottlieb Fichte. He established himself as an expert on German literature in a series of essays for \"Fraser's Magazine\", and by translating German works, notably Goethe's novel \"Wilhelm Meisters Lehrjahre\". He also wrote a \"Life of Schiller\" (1825).\n\nIn 1826, Thomas Carlyle married fellow intellectual Jane Baillie Welsh, whom he had met through Edmund Irving during his period of German studies. In 1827, he applied for the Chair of Moral Philosophy at St Andrews University but was not appointed. A residence provided by Jane's estate was a house on Craigenputtock, a farm in Dumfriesshire, Scotland. He often wrote about his life at Craigenputtock – in particular: \"It is certain that for living and thinking in I have never since found in the world a place so favourable.\" Here Carlyle wrote some of his most distinguished essays, and began a lifelong friendship with the American essayist Ralph Waldo Emerson.\n\nIn 1831, the Carlyles moved to London, settling initially in lodgings at 4 (now 33) Ampton Street, Kings Cross. In 1834, they moved to 5 (now 24) Cheyne Row, Chelsea, which has since been preserved as a museum to Carlyle's memory. He became known as the \"Sage of Chelsea\", and a member of a literary circle which included the essayists Leigh Hunt and John Stuart Mill.\n\nHere Carlyle wrote \"The French Revolution: A History\" (2 volumes, 1837), a historical study concentrating both on the oppression of the poor of France and on the horrors of the mob unleashed. The book was immediately successful.\n\nBy 1821, Carlyle abandoned the clergy as a career and focused on making a life as a writer. His first fiction was \"Cruthers and Jonson\", one of several abortive attempts at writing a novel. Following his work on a translation of Goethe's \"Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship\", he came to distrust the form of the realistic novel and so worked on developing a new form of fiction. In addition to his essays on German literature, he branched out into wider ranging commentary on modern culture in his influential essays \"Signs of the Times\" and\" Characteristics\". In the latter, he laid down his abiding preference for the natural over the artificial: \"Thus, as we have an artificial Poetry, and prize only the natural; so likewise we have an artificial Morality, an artificial Wisdom, an artificial Society\".\n\nMoreover, at this time he penned articles appraising the life and works of various poets and men of letters, including Goethe, Voltaire and Diderot.\n\nHis first major work, \"Sartor Resartus\" (\"The Tailor Retailored\") was begun as an article on 'the philosophy of clothes', and surprised him by growing into a full-length book. He wrote it in 1831 at his home (which his wife Jane provided for him from her estate), Craigenputtock, and was intended to be a new kind of book: simultaneously factual and fictional, serious and satirical, speculative and historical. Ironically, it commented on its own formal structure while forcing the reader to confront the problem of where 'truth' is to be found. \"Sartor Resartus\" was first serialised in \"Fraser's Magazine\" from 1833 to 1834. The text presents itself as an unnamed editor's attempt to introduce the British public to Diogenes Teufelsdröckh, a German philosopher of clothes, who is in fact a fictional creation of Carlyle's. The Editor is struck with admiration, but for the most part is confounded by Teufelsdröckh's outlandish philosophy, of which the Editor translates choice selections. To try to make sense of Teufelsdröckh's philosophy, the Editor tries to piece together a biography, but with limited success. Underneath the German philosopher's seemingly ridiculous statements, there are mordant attacks on Utilitarianism and the commercialisation of British society. The fragmentary biography of Teufelsdröckh that the Editor recovers from a chaotic mass of documents reveals the philosopher's [Carlyle’s] spiritual journey. He develops a contempt for the corrupt condition of modern life. He contemplates the \"Everlasting No\" of refusal, comes to the \"Centre of Indifference\", and eventually embraces the \"Everlasting Yea\". This voyage from denial to disengagement to volition would later be described as part of the existentialist awakening.\n\nGiven the enigmatic nature of \"Sartor Resartus\", it is not surprising that it first achieved little success. Its popularity developed over the next few years, and it was published in book form in Boston 1836, with a preface by Ralph Waldo Emerson, influencing the development of New England Transcendentalism. The first English edition followed in 1838.\n\n\"The Everlasting Yea\" is Carlyle's name in the book for the spirit of faith in God in an express attitude of clear, resolute, steady, and uncompromising antagonism to the \"Everlasting No\", and the principle that there is no such thing as faith in God except in such antagonism against the spirit opposed to God.\n\n\"The Everlasting No\" is Carlyle's name for the spirit of unbelief in God, especially as it manifested itself in his own, or rather \"Teufelsdröckh\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s, warfare against it; the spirit, which, as embodied in the Mephistopheles of Goethe, is forever denying – \"der stets verneint\" – the reality of the divine in the thoughts, the character, and the life of humanity, and has a malicious pleasure in scoffing at everything high and noble as hollow and void.\n\nIn \"Sartor Resartus,\" the narrator moves from the \"Everlasting No\" to the \"Everlasting Yea,\" but only through \"The Centre of Indifference,\" a position of agnosticism and detachment. Only after reducing desires and certainty, aiming at a Buddha-like \"indifference\", can the narrator realise affirmation. In some ways, this is similar to the contemporary philosopher Søren Kierkegaard's \"leap of faith\" in \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript.\"\n\nBased on Goethe's having described Christianity as the \"Worship of Sorrow\", and \"our highest religion, for the Son of Man\", Carlyle adds, interpreting this, \"there is no noble crown, well worn or even ill worn, but is a crown of thorns\".\n\nThe \"Worship of Silence\" is Carlyle's name for the sacred respect for restraint in speech till \"thought has silently matured itself, … to hold one's tongue till some meaning lie behind to set it wagging,\" a doctrine which many misunderstand, almost wilfully, it would seem; silence being to him the very womb out of which all great things are born.\n\nIn 1834, Carlyle moved to London from Craigenputtock and began to move among celebrated company. Within the United Kingdom, Carlyle's success was assured by the publication of his three-volume work \"\" in 1837. After the completed manuscript of the first volume was accidentally burned by the philosopher John Stuart Mill's maid, Carlyle wrote the second and third volumes before rewriting the first from scratch.\n\nThe resulting work had a passion new to historical writing. In a politically charged Europe, filled with fears and hopes of revolution, Carlyle's account of the motivations and urges that inspired the events in France seemed powerfully relevant. Carlyle's style of historical writing stressed the immediacy of action – often using the present tense – and incorporating many different perspectives on the changing events.\n\nFor Carlyle, chaotic events demanded what he called 'heroes' to take control over the competing forces erupting within society. While not denying the importance of economic and practical explanations for events, he saw these forces as 'spiritual' – the hopes and aspirations of people that took the form of ideas, and were often ossified into ideologies (\"formulas\" or \"isms\", as he called them). In Carlyle's view, only dynamic individuals could master events and direct these spiritual energies effectively: as soon as ideological 'formulas' replaced heroic human action, society became dehumanised.\n\nCharles Dickens used Carlyle's work as a secondary source for the events of the French Revolution in his novel \"A Tale of Two Cities\".\n\nLike the opinions of many deep thinkers of the time, these ideas were influential on the development and rise of both Socialism and Fascism. Carlyle moved towards his later thinking during the 1840s, leading to a break with many old friends and allies, such as Mill and, to a lesser extent, Emerson. His belief in the importance of heroic leadership found form in the book \"On Heroes, Hero-Worship, and The Heroic in History\", in which he was seen to compare a wide range of different types of heroes, including Odin, Muhammad, Oliver Cromwell, Napoleon, William Shakespeare, Dante, Samuel Johnson, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Robert Burns, John Knox, and Martin Luther. These lectures of Carlyle's are regarded as an early and powerful formulation of the Great Man theory.\nThe book was based on a course of lectures he had given. \"The French Revolution\" had brought Carlyle fame, but little money. His friends worked to set him on his feet by organising courses of public lectures for him, drumming up an audience and selling guinea tickets. Carlyle did not like lecturing, but found that he could do it, and more importantly that it brought in some much-needed money. Between 1837 and 1840, Carlyle delivered four such courses of lectures. The final course was on \"Heroes.\" From the notes he had prepared for this course, he wrote out his book, reproducing the curious effects of the spoken discourses.\n\n\"The Hero as Man of Letters\" (1840):\n\nCarlyle was one of the very few philosophers who witnessed the industrial revolution but still kept a non-materialistic view of the world. The book included lectures discussing people ranging from the field of religion through to literature and politics. The figures chosen for each lecture were presented by Carlyle as archetypal examples of individuals who, in their respective fields of endeavor, had dramatically impacted history in some way, for good or ill, and included such figures as Dante (poet), Luther (priest), and Napoleon (king). Muhammad himself found a place in the book in the lecture titled \"The Hero as Prophet\". In his work, Carlyle outlined Muhammad as a Hegelian agent of reform, insisting on his sincerity and commenting \"how one man single-handedly, could weld warring tribes and wandering Bedouins into a most powerful and civilised nation in less than two decades.\" His interpretation has been widely cited by Muslim scholars seeking Western support that Muhammad was one of the great men of history.\n\nCarlyle held \"That great men should rule and that others should revere them,\" a view that for him was supported by a complex faith in history and evolutionary progress. Societies, like organisms, evolve throughout history, thrive for a time, but inevitably become weak and die out, giving place to a stronger, superior breed. Heroes are those who affirm this life process, accepting its cruelty as necessary and thus good. For them courage is a more valuable virtue than love; heroes are noblemen, not saints. The hero functions first as a pattern for others to imitate, and second as a creator, moving history forwards not backwards (history being the biography of great men). Carlyle was among the first of his age to recognize that the death of God is in itself nothing to be happy about, unless man steps in and creates new values to replace the old. For Carlyle the hero should become the object of worship, the center of a new religion proclaiming humanity as \"the miracle of miracles... the only divinity we can know.\" For Carlyle's creed Bentley proposes the name Heroic Vitalism, a term embracing both a political theory, Aristocratic Radicalism, and a metaphysic, Supernatural Naturalism. The Heroic Vitalists feared that the recent trends toward democracy would hand over power to the ill-bred, uneducated, and immoral, whereas their belief in a transcendent force in nature directing itself onward and upward gave some hope that this overarching force would overrule in favor of the strong, intelligent, and noble.\n\nNietzsche agreed with much of Carlyle's hero worship, transferring many qualities of the hero to his concept of the superman. He believed that the hero should be revered, not for the good he has done for the people, but simply out of admiration for the marvelous. The hero justifies himself as a man chosen by destiny to be great. In the life struggle he is a conqueror, growing stronger through conflict. The hero is not ashamed of his strength; instead of the Christian virtues of meekness, humility and compassion, he abides by the beatitudes of Heroic Vitalism: courage, nobility, pride, and the right to rule. His slogan: \"The good old rule, the simple plan, that he should keep who has the power, and he should take who can.\"\n\nFor Carlyle, the hero was somewhat similar to Aristotle's \"Magnanimous\" man – a person who flourished in the fullest sense. However, for Carlyle, unlike Aristotle, the world was filled with contradictions with which the hero had to deal. All heroes will be flawed. Their heroism lay in their creative energy in the face of these difficulties, not in their moral perfection. To sneer at such a person for their failings is the philosophy of those who seek comfort in the conventional. Carlyle called this 'valetism', from the expression 'no man is a hero to his valet.'\n\nIn 1843, he published his anti-democratic \"Past and Present\", with its doctrine of ordered work. In it, he influentially called attention to what he termed \"The condition of England...England is full of wealth...supply for human want in every kind; yet England is dying of inanition\".\n\nAll these books were influential in their day, especially on writers such as Charles Dickens and John Ruskin. However, after the Revolutions of 1848 and political agitations in the United Kingdom, Carlyle published a collection of essays entitled \"Latter-Day Pamphlets\" (1850) in which he attacked democracy as an absurd social ideal, while equally condemning hereditary aristocratic leadership. Two of these essays, No. I: \"The Present Times\" and No. II: \"Model Prisons\" were reviewed by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels in April 1850. Carlyle criticised hereditary aristocratic leadership as \"deadening\"; however, he criticised democracy as nonsensical, mocking the idea that objective truth could be discovered by weighing up the votes for it. Government should come from those most able to lead. But how such leaders were to be found, and how to follow their lead, was something Carlyle could not (or would not) clearly say. Marx and Engels agreed with Carlyle as far as his criticism of the hereditary aristocracy. However they criticised Carlyle's plan to use democracy to find the \"Noblest\" and the other \"Nobles\" that are to form the government by the \"ablest\" persons. Anthony Trollope for his part considered that in the Pamphlets \"the grain of sense is so smothered in a sack of the sheerest trash….He has one idea – a hatred of spoken and acted falsehood; and on this he harps through the whole eight pamphlets\". A century later, Northrop Frye would similarly speak on Carlyle's \"tantrum prose...rhetorical ectoplasm\".\nIn later writings, Carlyle sought to examine instances of heroic leadership in history. The \"Letters and Speeches of Oliver Cromwell\" (1845) presented a positive image of Cromwell: someone who attempted to weld order from the conflicting forces of reform in his own day. Carlyle sought to make Cromwell's words live in their own terms by quoting him directly, and then commenting on the significance of these words in the troubled context of the time. Again this was intended to make the 'past' 'present' to his readers: “he is epic, still living”.\n\nHis essay \"Occasional Discourse on the Negro Question\" (1849) suggested that slavery should never have been abolished, or else replaced with serfdom. It had kept order, he argued, and forced work from people who would otherwise have been lazy and feckless: “West Indian blacks are emancipated and, it appears, refuse to work”. This, and Carlyle's support for the repressive measures of Governor Edward Eyre in Jamaica during the Morant Bay rebellion, further alienated him from his old liberal allies. As Governor of the Colony, Eyre, fearful of an island wide uprising, brutally suppressed the rebellion, and had many black peasants killed. Hundreds were flogged. He also authorised the execution of George William Gordon, a mixed-race colonial assemblyman who was suspected of involvement in the rebellion. These events created great controversy in Britain, resulting in demands for Eyre to be arrested and tried for murdering Gordon. John Stuart Mill organised the Jamaica Committee, which demanded his prosecution and included some well-known British liberal intellectuals (such as John Bright, Charles Darwin, Frederic Harrison, Thomas Hughes, Thomas Henry Huxley, and Herbert Spencer).\n\nCarlyle set up rival Governor Eyre Defense and Aid Committee for the defence, arguing that Eyre had acted decisively to restore order. His supporters included John Ruskin, Charles Kingsley, Charles Dickens, Alfred Tennyson and John Tyndall. Twice Eyre was charged with murder, but the cases never proceeded.\n\nSimilar hard-line views were expressed in \"Shooting Niagara, and After?\", written after the passing of the Electoral Reform Act of 1867 in which he \"reaffirmed his belief in wise leadership (and wise followership), his disbelief in democracy and his hatred of all workmanship – from brickmaking to diplomacy – that was not genuine\".\n\nHis last major work was the epic life of Frederick the Great (1858–1865). In this Carlyle tried to show how a heroic leader can forge a state, and help create a new moral culture for a nation. For Carlyle, Frederick epitomised the transition from the liberal Enlightenment ideals of the eighteenth century to a new modern culture of spiritual dynamism embodied by Germany, its thought and its polity. The book is most famous for its vivid, arguably very biased, portrayal of Frederick's battles, in which Carlyle communicated his vision of almost overwhelming chaos mastered by leadership of genius.\n\nCarlyle struggled to write the book, calling it his \"Thirteen Years War\" with Frederick. Some of the nicknames he came up with for the work included, \"the Nightmare,\" \"the Minotaur,\" and \"the Unutterable book\". In 1852, he made his first trip to Germany to gather material, visiting the scenes of Frederick's battles and noting their topography. He made another trip to Germany to study battlefields in 1858. The work comprised six volumes; the first two volumes appeared in 1858, the third in 1862, the fourth in 1864 and the last two in 1865. Emerson considered it \"Infinitely the wittiest book that was ever written\". James Russell Lowell pointed out some faults, but wrote: \"The figures of most historians seem like dolls stuffed with bran, whose whole substance runs out through any hole that criticism may tear in them; but Carlyle's are so real in comparison, that, if you prick them, they bleed.\" The work was studied as a textbook in the military academies of Germany. David Daiches, however, later concluded that \"since his 'idea' of Frederick is not really borne out by the evidence, his mythopoeic effort partially fails\".\n\nThe effort involved in the writing of the book took its toll on Carlyle, who became increasingly depressed, and subject to various probably psychosomatic ailments. In 1853 he wrote a letter to his sister describing the construction of a small penthouse room over his home in Chelsea, intended as a soundproof writer's room. Unfortunately, the skylight made it \"the noisiest room in the house\". The mixed reception to the book also contributed to Carlyle's decreased literary output.\n\nLater writings were generally short essays, notably the (unsuccessful) \"The Early Kings of Norway\", a series on early-medieval Norwegian warlords. Also \"An Essay on the Portraits of John Knox\" appeared in 1875, attempting to prove that the best-known portrait of John Knox did not depict the Scottish prelate. This was linked to Carlyle's long interest in historical portraiture, which had earlier fuelled his project to found a gallery of national portraits, fulfilled by the creation of the National Portrait Gallery, London and the Scottish National Portrait Gallery. He was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1878.\n\nCarlyle was the chief instigator in the foundation of the London Library in 1841. He had become frustrated by the facilities available at the British Museum Library, where he was often unable to find a seat (obliging him to perch on ladders), where he complained that the enforced close confinement with his fellow readers gave him a \"museum headache\", where the books were unavailable for loan, and where he found the library's collections of pamphlets and other material relating to the French Revolution and English Civil Wars inadequately catalogued. In particular, he developed an antipathy to the Keeper of Printed Books, Anthony Panizzi (despite the fact that Panizzi had allowed him many privileges not granted to other readers), and criticised him, as the \"respectable Sub-Librarian\", in a footnote to an article published in the \"Westminster Review\". Carlyle's eventual solution, with the support of a number of influential friends, was to call for the establishment of a private subscription library from which books could be borrowed.\n\nCarlyle had a number of would-be romances before he married Jane Welsh, important as a literary figure in her own right. The most notable were with Margaret Gordon, a pupil of his friend Edward Irving. Even after he met Jane, he became enamoured of Kitty Kirkpatrick, the daughter of a British officer and an Indian princess. William Dalrymple, author of \"White Mughals\", suggests that feelings were mutual, but social circumstances made the marriage impossible, as Carlyle was then poor. Both Margaret and Kitty have been suggested as the original of \"Blumine\", Teufelsdröckh's beloved, in \"Sartor Resartus\".\n\nThomas also had a friendship with writer Geraldine Jewsbury starting in 1840. During that year Jewsbury was going through a depressive state and also experiencing religious doubt. She wrote to Carlyle for guidance and also thanked him for his well-written essays. Eventually Carlyle invited Jewsbury out to Cheyne Row, where Carlyle and Jane resided. Jewsbury and Jane from then on had a tight friendship and Carlyle also helped Jewsbury get on to the English literary scene.\n\nCarlyle married Jane Welsh in 1826. He met Welsh through his friend and her tutor Edward Irving, with whom she came to have a mutual romantic (although not intimate) attraction. Welsh was the subject of Leigh Hunt's charming poem, \"Jenny kiss'd Me\".\n\nTheir marriage proved to be one of the most famous, well documented, and unhappy of literary unions. Over 9000 letters between Carlyle and his wife have been published showing the couple had an affection for each other marred by frequent and angry quarrels.\n\nCarlyle became increasingly alienated from his wife. Carlyle's biographer James Anthony Froude published (posthumously) his opinion that the marriage remained unconsummated.\n\nAlthough she had been an invalid for some time, his wife's sudden death in 1866 was unexpected and it greatly distressed Carlyle who was moved to write his highly self-critical \"Reminiscences of Jane Welsh Carlyle\", published posthumously.\n\nCarlyle was named Lord Rector of Edinburgh University. Three weeks after his inaugural address there, Jane died, and he partly retired from active society. His last years were spent at 24 Cheyne Row (then numbered 5), Chelsea, London SW3 (which is now a National Trust property commemorating his life and works) but he always wished to return to Craigenputtock.\n\nUpon Carlyle's death on 5 February 1881 in London interment in Westminster Abbey was offered but rejected due to his explicit wish to be buried beside his parents in Ecclefechan. His final words were, \"So, this is death. Well!\"\n\nCarlyle would have preferred that no biography of him were written, but when he heard that his wishes would not be respected and several people were waiting for him to die before they published, he relented and supplied his friend James Anthony Froude with many of his and his wife's papers. Carlyle's essay about his wife was included in \"Reminiscences, \"published shortly after his death by Froude, who also published the \"Letters and Memorials of Jane Welsh Carlyle\" annotated by Carlyle himself. Froude's \"Life of Carlyle\" was published over 1882–84. The frankness of this book was unheard of by the usually respectful standards of 19th-century biographies of the period. Froude's work was attacked by Carlyle's family, especially his nephew, Alexander Carlyle and his niece, Margaret Aitken Carlyle. However, the biography in question was consistent with Carlyle's own conviction that the flaws of heroes should be openly discussed, without diminishing their achievements. Froude, who had been designated by Carlyle himself as his biographer-to-be, was acutely aware of this belief. Froude's defence of his decision, \"My Relations With Carlyle\" was published posthumously in 1903, including a reprint of Carlyle's 1873 will, in which Carlyle equivocated: \"Express biography of me I had really rather that there should be none.\" Nevertheless, Carlyle in the will simultaneously and completely deferred to Froude's judgement on the matter, whose \"decision is to be taken as mine.\"\n\nThomas Carlyle is notable both for his continuation of older traditions of the Tory satirists of the 18th century in England and for forging a new tradition of Victorian era criticism of progress known as sage writing. \"Sartor Resartus\" can be seen both as an extension of the chaotic, sceptical satires of Jonathan Swift and Laurence Sterne and as an enunciation of a new point of view on values.\n\nCarlyle is also important for helping to introduce German Romantic literature to Britain. Although Samuel Taylor Coleridge had also been a proponent of Schiller, Carlyle's efforts on behalf of Schiller and Goethe would bear fruit.\n\nThe reputation of Carlyle's early work remained high during the 19th century, but declined in the 20th century. George Orwell called him, \"a master of belittlement. Even at his emptiest sneer (as when he said that Whitman \"thought he was a big man because he lived in a big country\") the victim does seem to shrink a little. That [...] is the power of the orator, the man of phrases and adjectives, turned to a base use.\" However, Whitman himself described Carlyle as lighting \"up our Nineteenth Century with the light of a powerful, penetrating and perfectly honest intellect of the first-class\" and \"Never had political progressivism a foe it could more heartily respect\". His reputation in Germany was always high, because of his promotion of German thought and his biography of Frederick the Great. Friedrich Nietzsche, whose ideas are comparable to Carlyle's in some respects, was dismissive of his moralism, calling him an \"absurd muddlehead\" in \"Beyond Good and Evil\" and regarded him as a thinker who failed to free himself from the very petty-mindedness he professed to condemn. Carlyle's distaste for democracy and his belief in charismatic leadership was appealing to Joseph Goebbels, who read Carlyle's biography of Frederick to Hitler during his last days in 1945. Many critics in the 20th century identified Carlyle as an influence on fascism and Nazism. Ernst Cassirer argued in \"The Myth of the State\" that Carlyle's hero worship contributed to 20th-century ideas of political leadership that became part of fascist political ideology.\n\n\"Sartor Resartus\" has recently been recognised once more as a unique masterpiece, anticipating many major philosophical and cultural developments, from Existentialism to Postmodernism. It has been argued that his critique of ideological formulas in \"The French Revolution\" provides a good account of the ways in which revolutionary cultures turn into repressive dogmatisms.\n\nEssentially a Romantic, Carlyle attempted to reconcile Romantic affirmations of feeling and freedom with respect for historical and political fact. Many believe that he was always more attracted to the idea of heroic struggle itself, than to any specific goal for which the struggle was being made. However, Carlyle's belief in the continued use to humanity of the Hero, or Great Man, is stated succinctly at the end of his essay on Muhammad (in \"On Heroes, Hero Worship & the Heroic in History\"), in which he concludes that: “the Great Man was always as lightning out of Heaven; the rest of men waited for him like fuel, and then they too would flame.\"\n\nA bust of Carlyle is in the Hall of Heroes of the National Wallace Monument in Stirling.\n\n\nThere are several published \"Collected Works\" of Carlyle:\n\nUnauthorized lifetime editions:\nAuthorised lifetime editions:\nPosthumous editions:\n\nCarlyle had quite a few unusual definitions at hand, which were collected by the Nuttall Encyclopedia. Some include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41909781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41909781", "title": "Timeline of global surveillance disclosures (2013–present)", "text": "Timeline of global surveillance disclosures (2013–present)\n\nThis timeline of global surveillance disclosures from 2013 to t sent day is a chronological list of the global surveillance disclosures that began in 2013. The disclosures have been largely instigated by revelations from the former American National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden.\n\nIn April 2012, Defense contractor Edward Snowden began downloading sensitive Western intelligence material while working for the American computer corporation Dell. By the end of the year, Snowden had made his first contact with journalist Glenn Greenwald of \"The Guardian\".\n\nIn January 2013, Snowden contacted documentary filmmaker Laura Poitras. In March 2013, Snowden took up a new job at Booz Allen Hamilton in Hawaii, specifically to gain access to additional top-secret documents that could be leaked. In April 2013, Poitras asked Greenwald to meet her in New York City. In May 2013, Snowden was permitted temporary leave from his position at the NSA in Hawaii, on the pretext of receiving treatment for his epilepsy. Towards the end of May, Snowden flew to Hong Kong.\n\nAfter the U.S.-based editor of \"The Guardian\" held several meetings in New York City, it was decided that Greenwald, Poitras, and \"The Guardian\"s defence and intelligence correspondent Ewen MacAskill would fly to Hong Kong to meet Snowden. On June 5, in the first media report based on the leaked material, \"The Guardian\" exposed a top secret court order showing that the NSA had collected phone records from over 120 million Verizon subscribers. Under the order, the numbers of both parties on a call, as well as the location data, unique identifiers, time of call, and duration of call were handed over to the FBI, which turned over the records to the NSA. According to the \"Wall Street Journal\", the Verizon order is part of a controversial data program, which seeks to stockpile records on all calls made in the U.S., but doesn't collect information directly from T-Mobile USA and Verizon Wireless, in part because of their foreign ownership ties.\n\nOn June 7, 2013, the second media disclosure, the revelation of the PRISM surveillance program, was published simultaneously by \"The Guardian\" and \"The Washington Post\".\n\nDocuments provided by Snowden to \"Der Spiegel\" revealed how the NSA spied on various diplomatic missions of the European Union (EU) including the EU's delegation to the United States in Washington D.C., the EU's delegation to the United Nations in New York, and the Council of the European Union in Brussels, as well as the United Nations Headquarters in New York. During specific episodes within a four-year period, the NSA hacked several Chinese mobile phone companies, the Chinese University of Hong Kong, and Tsinghua University in Beijing, and the Asian fiber-optic network operator Pacnet. Only Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the UK are explicitly exempted from NSA attacks, whose main target in the EU is Germany. A method of bugging encrypted fax machines used at an EU embassy is codenamed Dropmire.\n\nDuring the 2009 G-20 London summit, the British intelligence agency Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) intercepted the communications of foreign diplomats. In addition, the GCHQ has been intercepting and storing mass quantities of fiber-optic traffic via Tempora. Two principal components of Tempora are called \"Mastering the Internet\" (MTI) and \"Global Telecoms Exploitation\". The data is preserved for three days while metadata is kept for thirty days. Data collected by the GCHQ under Tempora is shared with the National Security Agency (NSA) of the United States.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2011, the NSA collected vast amounts of metadata records detailing the email and internet usage of Americans via Stellar Wind, which was later terminated due to operational and resource constraints. It was subsequently replaced by newer surveillance programs such as ShellTrumpet, which \"processed its one trillionth metadata record\" by the end of December 2012.\n\nAccording to the Boundless Informant, over 97 billion pieces of intelligence were collected over a 30-day period ending in March 2013. Out of all 97 billion sets of information, about 3 billion data sets originated from U.S. computer networks and around 500 million metadata records were collected from German networks.\n\nSeveral weeks later, it was revealed that the Bundesnachrichtendienst (BND) of Germany transfers massive amounts of metadata records to the NSA.\n\nAccording to the Brazilian newspaper \"O Globo\", the NSA spied on millions of emails and calls of Brazilian citizens, while Australia and New Zealand have been involved in the joint operation of the NSA's global analytical system XKeyscore. Among the numerous allied facilities contributing to XKeyscore are four installations in Australia and one in New Zealand:\n\n\n\"O Globo\" released an NSA document titled \"\", which revealed the specific locations and codenames of the FORNSAT intercept stations in 2002.\n\nAccording to Edward Snowden, the NSA has established secret intelligence partnerships with many Western governments. The Foreign Affairs Directorate (FAD) of the NSA is responsible for these partnerships, which, according to Snowden, are organized such that foreign governments can \"insulate their political leaders\" from public outrage in the event that these global surveillance partnerships are leaked.\n\nIn an interview published by \"Der Spiegel\", Snowden accused the NSA of being \"in bed together with the Germans\". The NSA granted the German intelligence agencies BND (foreign intelligence) and BfV (domestic intelligence) access to its controversial XKeyscore system. In return, the BND turned over copies of two systems named Mira4 and Veras, reported to exceed the NSA's SIGINT capabilities in certain areas. Every day, massive amounts of metadata records are collected by the BND and transferred to the NSA via the Bad Aibling Station near Munich, Germany. In December 2012 alone, the BND handed over 500 million metadata records to the NSA.\n\nIn a document dated January 2013, the NSA acknowledged the efforts of the BND to undermine privacy laws:\n\nAccording to an NSA document dated April 2013, Germany has now become the NSA's \"most prolific partner\". Under a section of a separate document leaked by Snowden titled \"Success Stories\", the NSA acknowledged the efforts of the German government to expand the BND's international data sharing with partners:\n\nIn addition, the German government was well aware of the PRISM surveillance program long before Edward Snowden made details public. According to Angela Merkel's spokesman Steffen Seibert, there are two separate PRISM programs - one is used by the NSA and the other is used by NATO forces in Afghanistan. Both surveillance programs are \"not identical\".\n\n\"The Guardian\" revealed further details of the NSA's XKeyscore tool, which allows government analysts to search through vast databases containing emails, online chats and the browsing histories of millions of individuals without prior authorization. Microsoft \"developed a surveillance capability to deal\" with the interception of encrypted chats on Outlook.com, within five months after the service went into testing. NSA had access to Outlook.com emails because “Prism collects this data prior to encryption.”\n\nIn addition, Microsoft worked with the FBI to enable the NSA to gain access to its cloud storage service SkyDrive. An internal NSA document dating from 3 August 2012 described the PRISM surveillance program as a \"team sport\".\n\nEven if there is no reason to suspect U.S. citizens of wrongdoing, the CIA's National Counterterrorism Center is allowed to examine federal government files for possible criminal behavior. Previously the NTC was barred to do so, unless a person was a terror suspect or related to an investigation.\n\nSnowden also confirmed that Stuxnet was cooperatively developed by the United States and Israel. In a report unrelated to Edward Snowden, the French newspaper \"Le Monde\" revealed that France's DGSE was also undertaking mass surveillance, which it described as \"illegal and outside any serious control\".\n\nDocuments leaked by Edward Snowden that were seen by \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" (SZ) and \"Norddeutscher Rundfunk\" revealed that several telecom operators have played a key role in helping the British intelligence agency Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) tap into worldwide fiber-optic communications. The telecom operators are:\n\nEach of them were assigned a particular area of the international fiber-optic network for which they were individually responsible. The following networks have been infiltrated by the GCHQ: TAT-14 (Europe-USA), Atlantic Crossing 1 (Europe-USA), Circe South (France-UK), Circe North (The Netherlands-UK), Flag Atlantic-1, Flag Europa-Asia, SEA-ME-WE 3 (Southeast Asia-Middle East-Western Europe), SEA-ME-WE 4 (Southeast Asia-Middle East-Western Europe), Solas (Ireland-UK), UK-France 3, UK-Netherlands 14, ULYSSES (Europe-UK), Yellow (UK-USA) and Pan European Crossing.\n\nTelecommunication companies who participated were \"forced\" to do so and had \"no choice in the matter\". Some of the companies were subsequently paid by GCHQ for their participation in the infiltration of the cables. According to the SZ the GCHQ has access to the majority of internet and telephone communications flowing throughout Europe, can listen to phone calls, read emails and text messages, see which websites internet users from all around the world are visiting. It can also retain and analyse nearly the entire European internet traffic.\n\nThe GCHQ is collecting all data transmitted to and from the United Kingdom and Northern Europe via the undersea fibre optic telecommunications cable SEA-ME-WE 3. The Security and Intelligence Division (SID) of Singapore co-operates with Australia in accessing and sharing communications carried by the SEA-ME-WE-3 cable. The Australian Signals Directorate (ASD) is also in a partnership with British, American and Singaporean intelligence agencies to tap undersea fibre optic telecommunications cables that link Asia, the Middle East and Europe and carry much of Australia's international phone and internet traffic.\n\nThe U.S. runs a top-secret surveillance program known as the Special Collection Service (SCS), which is based in over 80 U.S. consulates and embassies worldwide. The NSA hacked the United Nations' video conferencing system in Summer 2012 in violation of a UN agreement.\n\nThe NSA is not just intercepting the communications of Americans who are in direct contact with foreigners targeted overseas, but also searching the contents of vast amounts of e-mail and text communications into and out of the country by Americans who mention information about foreigners under surveillance. It also spied on the Al Jazeera and gained access to its internal communications systems.\n\nThe NSA has built a surveillance network that has the capacity to reach roughly 75% of all U.S. Internet traffic. U.S. Law-enforcement agencies use tools used by computer hackers to gather information on suspects. An internal NSA audit from May 2012 identified 2776 incidents i.e. violations of the rules or court orders for surveillance of Americans and foreign targets in the U.S. in the period from April 2011 through March 2012, while U.S. officials stressed that any mistakes are not intentional.\n\nThe FISA Court that is supposed to provide critical oversight of the U.S. government's vast spying programs has limited ability to do and it must trust the government to report when it improperly spies on Americans. A legal opinion declassified on August 21, 2013 revealed that the NSA intercepted for three years as many as 56,000 electronic communications a year of Americans who weren’t suspected of having links to terrorism, before FISC court that oversees surveillance found the operation unconstitutional in 2011. Under the Corporate Partner Access project, major U.S. telecommunications providers receive hundreds of millions of dollars each year from the NSA. Voluntary cooperation between the NSA and the providers of global communications took off during the 1970s under the cover name BLARNEY.\n\nA letter drafted by the Obama administration specifically to inform Congress of the government's mass collection of Americans’ telephone communications data was withheld from lawmakers by leaders of the House Intelligence Committee in the months before a key vote affecting the future of the program.\n\nThe NSA paid GCHQ over £100 Million between 2009 and 2012, in exchange for these funds GCHQ \"must pull its weight and be seen to pull its weight.\" Documents referenced in the article explain that the weaker British laws regarding spying are \"a selling point\" for the NSA. GCHQ is also developing the technology to \"exploit any mobile phone at any time.\" The NSA has under a legal authority a secret backdoor into its databases gathered from large Internet companies enabling it to search for U.S. citizens' email and phone calls without a warrant.\n\nThe Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board urged the U.S. intelligence chiefs to draft stronger US surveillance guidelines on domestic spying after finding that several of those guidelines have not been updated up to 30 years. U.S. intelligence analysts have deliberately broken rules designed to prevent them from spying on Americans by choosing to ignore so-called \"minimisation procedures\" aimed at protecting privacy.\n\nAfter the U.S. Foreign Secret Intelligence Court ruled in October 2011 that some of the NSA's activities were unconstitutional, the agency paid millions of dollars to major internet companies to cover extra costs incurred in their involvement with the PRISM surveillance program.\n\n\"Mastering the Internet\" (MTI) is part of the Interception Modernisation Programme (IMP) of the British government that involves the insertion of thousands of DPI (deep packet inspection) \"black boxes\" at various internet service providers, as revealed by the British media in 2009.\n\nIn 2013, it was further revealed that the NSA had made a £17.2  million financial contribution to the project, which is capable of vacuuming signals from up to 200 fibre-optic cables at all physical points of entry into Great Britain.\n\n\"The Guardian\" and \"The New York Times\" reported on secret documents leaked by Snowden showing that the NSA has been in \"collaboration with technology companies\" as part of \"an aggressive, multipronged effort\" to weaken the encryption used in commercial software, and the GCHQ has a team dedicated to cracking \"Hotmail, Google, Yahoo and Facebook\" traffic.\nIsrael, Sweden and Italy are also cooperating with American and British intelligence agencies. Under a secret treaty codenamed \"Lustre\", French intelligence agencies transferred millions of metadata records to the NSA.\n\nThe Obama Administration secretly won permission from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court in 2011 to reverse restrictions on the National Security Agency’s use of intercepted phone calls and e-mails, permitting the agency to search deliberately for Americans’ communications in its massive databases. The searches take place under a surveillance program Congress authorized in 2008 under Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Under that law, the target must be a foreigner “reasonably believed” to be outside the United States, and the court must approve the targeting procedures in an order good for one year. But a warrant for each target would thus no longer be required. That means that communications with Americans could be picked up without a court first determining that there is probable cause that the people they were talking to were terrorists, spies or “foreign powers.” The FISC extended the length of time that the NSA is allowed to retain intercepted U.S. communications from five years to six years with an extension possible for foreign intelligence or counterintelligence purposes. Both measures were done without public debate or any specific authority from Congress.\n\nA special branch of the NSA called \"Follow the Money\" (FTM) monitors international payments, banking and credit card transactions and later stores the collected data in the NSA's own financial databank \"Tracfin\". The NSA monitored the communications of Brazil's president Dilma Rousseff and her top aides. The agency also spied on Brazil's oil firm Petrobras as well as French diplomats, and gained access to the private network of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of France and the SWIFT network.\n\nIn the United States, the NSA uses the analysis of phone call and e-mail logs of American citizens to create sophisticated graphs of their social connections that can identify their associates, their locations at certain times, their traveling companions and other personal information. The NSA routinely shares raw intelligence data with Israel without first sifting it to remove information about U.S. citizens.\n\nIn an effort codenamed GENIE, computer specialists can control foreign computer networks using \"covert implants,” a form of remotely transmitted malware on tens of thousands of devices annually. As worldwide sales of smartphones began exceeding those of feature phones, the NSA decided to take advantage of the smartphone boom. This is particularly advantageous because the smartphone combines a myriad of data that would interest an intelligence agency, such as social contacts, user behavior, interests, location, photos and credit card numbers and passwords.\n\nAn internal NSA report from 2010 stated that the spread of the smartphone has been occurring \"extremely rapidly\"—developments that \"certainly complicate traditional target analysis.\" According to the document, the NSA has set up task forces assigned to several smartphone manufacturers and operating systems, including Apple Inc.'s iPhone and iOS operating system, as well as Google's Android mobile operating system. Similarly, Britain's GCHQ assigned a team to study and crack the BlackBerry.\n\nUnder the heading \"iPhone capability\", the document notes that there are smaller NSA programs, known as \"scripts\", that can perform surveillance on 38 different features of the iOS 3 and iOS 4 operating systems. These include the mapping feature, voicemail and photos, as well as Google Earth, Facebook and Yahoo! Messenger.\nOn October 4, 2013, \"The Washington Post\" and \"The Guardian\" jointly reported that the NSA and the GCHQ have made repeated attempts to spy on anonymous Internet users who have been communicating in secret via the anonymity network Tor. Several of these surveillance operations involve the implantation of malicious code into the computers of Tor users who visit particular websites. The NSA and GCHQ have partly succeeded in blocking access to the anonymous network, diverting Tor users to insecure channels. The government agencies were also able to uncover the identity of some anonymous Internet users.\n\nThe Communications Security Establishment Canada (CSEC) has been using a program called Olympia to map the communications of Brazil's Mines and Energy Ministry by targeting the metadata of phone calls and emails to and from the ministry.\n\nThe Australian Federal Government knew about the PRISM surveillance program months before Edward Snowden made details public.\n\nThe NSA monitored the public email account of former Mexican president Felipe Calderón (thus gaining access to the communications of high-ranking cabinet members), the E-Mails of several high-ranking members of Mexico's security forces and text and the mobile phone communication of current Mexican president Enrique Peña Nieto. The NSA tries to gather cellular and landline phone numbers—often obtained from American diplomats—for as many foreign officials as possible. The contents of the phone calls are stored in computer databases that can regularly be searched using keywords.\n\nThe NSA has been monitoring telephone conversations of 35 world leaders. The U.S. government's first public acknowledgment that it tapped the phones of world leaders was reported on October 28, 2013 by the Wall Street Journal after an internal U.S. government review turned up NSA monitoring of some 35 world leaders. The GCHQ has tried to keep its mass surveillance program a secret because it feared a \"damaging public debate\" on the scale of its activities which could lead to legal challenges against them.\n\n\"The Guardian\" revealed that the NSA had been monitoring telephone conversations of 35 world leaders after being given the numbers by an official in another U.S. government department. A confidential memo revealed that the NSA encouraged senior officials in such Departments as the White House, State and The Pentagon, to share their \"Rolodexes\" so the agency could add the telephone numbers of leading foreign politicians to their surveillance systems. Reacting to the news, German leader Angela Merkel, arriving in Brussels for an EU summit, accused the U.S. of a breach of trust, saying: \"We need to have trust in our allies and partners, and this must now be established once again. I repeat that spying among friends is not at all acceptable against anyone, and that goes for every citizen in Germany.\" The NSA collected in 2010 data on ordinary Americans’ cellphone locations, but later discontinued it because it had no “operational value.”\n\nUnder Britain's MUSCULAR programme, the NSA and the GCHQ have secretly broken into the main communications links that connect Yahoo and Google data centers around the world and thereby gained the ability to collect metadata and content at will from hundreds of millions of user accounts.\n\nThe mobile phone of German Chancellor Angela Merkel might have been tapped by U.S. intelligence. According to the Spiegel this monitoring goes back to 2002 and ended in the summer of 2013, while the New York Times reported that Germany has evidence that the NSA's surveillance of Merkel began during George W. Bush's tenure. After learning from \"Der Spiegel\" magazine that the NSA has been listening in to her personal mobile phone, Merkel compared the snooping practices of the NSA with those of the Stasi.\n\nOn October 31, 2013, Hans-Christian Ströbele, a member of the German Bundestag, met Snowden in Moscow and revealed the former intelligence contractor's readiness to brief the German government on NSA spying.\n\nA highly sensitive signals intelligence collection program known as Stateroom involves the interception of radio, telecommunications and internet traffic. It is operated out of the diplomatic missions of the Five Eyes (Australia, Britain, Canada, New Zealand, United States) in numerous locations around the world. The program conducted at U.S. diplomatic missions is run in concert by the U.S. intelligence agencies NSA and CIA in a joint venture group called \"Special Collection Service\" (SCS), whose members work undercover in shielded areas of the American Embassies and Consulates, where they are officially accredited as diplomats and as such enjoy special privileges. Under diplomatic protection, they are able to look and listen unhindered. The SCS for example used the American Embassy near the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin to monitor communications in Germany's government district with its parliament and the seat of the government.\n\nUnder the Stateroom surveillance programme, Australia operates clandestine surveillance facilities to intercept phone calls and data across much of Asia.\n\nIn France, the NSA targeted people belonging to the worlds of business, politics or French state administration. The NSA monitored and recorded the content of telephone communications and the history of the connections of each target i.e. the metadata. The actual surveillance operation was performed by French intelligence agencies on behalf of the NSA. The cooperation between France and the NSA was confirmed by the Director of the NSA, Keith B. Alexander, who asserted that foreign intelligence services collected phone records in \"war zones\" and \"other areas outside their borders\" and provided them to the NSA.\n\nThe French newspaper \"Le Monde\" also disclosed new PRISM and Upstream slides (See Page 4, 7 and 8) coming from the \"PRISM/US-984XN Overview\" presentation.\n\nIn Spain, the NSA intercepted the telephone conversations, text messages and emails of millions of Spaniards, and spied on members of the Spanish government. Between December 10, 2012 and January 8, 2013, the NSA collected metadata on 60 million telephone calls in Spain.\n\nAccording to documents leaked by Snowden, the surveillance of Spanish citizens was jointly conducted by the NSA and the intelligence agencies of Spain.\n\nThe \"New York Times\" reported that the NSA carries out an eavesdropping effort, dubbed Operation Dreadnought, against the Iranian leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. During his 2009 visit to Iranian Kurdistan, the agency collaborated with the GCHQ and the U.S.'s National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, collecting radio transmissions between aircraft and airports, examining Khamenei's convoy with satellite imagery, and enumerating military radar stations. According to the story, an objective of the operation is \"communications fingerprinting\": the ability to distinguish Khamenei's communications from those of other people in Iran.\n\nThe same story revealed an operation code-named Ironavenger, in which the NSA intercepted e-mails sent between a country allied with the United States and the government of \"an adversary\". The ally was conducting a spear-phishing attack: its e-mails contained malware. The NSA gathered documents and login credentials belonging to the enemy country, along with knowledge of the ally's capabilities for attacking computers.\n\nAccording to the British newspaper \"The Independent\", the British intelligence agency GCHQ maintains a listening post on the roof of the British Embassy in Berlin that is capable of intercepting mobile phone calls, wi-fi data and long-distance communications all over the German capital, including adjacent government buildings such as the Reichstag (seat of the German parliament) and the Chancellery (seat of Germany's head of government) clustered around the Brandenburg Gate.\n\nOperating under the code-name \"Quantum Insert\", the GCHQ set up a fake website masquerading as LinkedIn, a social website used for professional networking, as part of its efforts to install surveillance software on the computers of the telecommunications operator Belgacom. In addition, the headquarters of the oil cartel OPEC were infiltrated by the GCHQ as well as the NSA, which bugged the computers of nine OPEC employees and monitored the General Secretary of OPEC.\n\nFor more than three years the GCHQ has been using an automated monitoring system code-named \"Royal Concierge\" to infiltrate the reservation systems of at least 350 upscale hotels in many different parts of the world in order to target, search and analyze reservations to detect diplomats and government officials. First tested in 2010, the aim of the \"Royal Concierge\" is to track down the travel plans of diplomats, and it is often supplemented with surveillance methods related to human intelligence (HUMINT). Other covert operations include the wiretapping of room telephones and fax machines used in targeted hotels as well as the monitoring of computers hooked up to the hotel network.\n\nIn November 2013, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation and \"The Guardian\" revealed that the Australian Signals Directorate (DSD) had attempted to listen to the private phone calls of the president of Indonesia and his wife. The Indonesian foreign minister, Marty Natalegawa, confirmed that he and the president had contacted the ambassador in Canberra. Natalegawa said any tapping of Indonesian politicians’ personal phones “violates every single decent and legal instrument I can think of—national in Indonesia, national in Australia, international as well”.\n\nOther high-ranking Indonesian politicians targeted by the DSD include:\n\n\nCarrying the title \"3G impact and update\", a classified presentation leaked by Snowden revealed the attempts of the ASD/DSD to keep up to pace with the rollout of 3G technology in Indonesia and across Southeast Asia. The ASD/DSD motto placed at the bottom of each page reads: \"Reveal their secrets—protect our own.\"\n\nUnder a secret deal approved by British intelligence officials, the NSA has been storing and analyzing the internet and email records of UK citizens since 2007. The NSA also proposed in 2005 a procedure for spying on the citizens of the UK and other Five-Eyes nations alliance, even where the partner government has explicitly denied the U.S. permission to do so. Under the proposal, partner countries must neither be informed about this particular type of surveillance, nor the procedure of doing so.\n\nTowards the end of November, \"The New York Times\" released an internal NSA report outlining the agency's efforts to expand its surveillance abilities. The five-page document asserts that the law of the United States has not kept up with the needs of the NSA to conduct mass surveillance in the \"golden age\" of signals intelligence, but there are grounds for optimism because, in the NSA's own words:\n\nThe report, titled \"SIGNT Strategy 2012–2016\", also said that the U.S. will try to influence the \"global commercial encryption market\" through \"commercial relationships\", and emphasized the need to \"revolutionize\" the analysis of its vast data collection to \"radically increase operational impact\".\n\nOn November 23, 2013, the Dutch newspaper \"NRC Handelsblad\" reported that the Netherlands was targeted by U.S. intelligence agencies in the immediate aftermath of World War II. This period of surveillance lasted from 1946 to 1968, and also included the interception of the communications of other European countries including Belgium, France, West Germany and Norway. The Dutch Newspaper also reported that NSA infected more than 50,000 computer networks worldwide, often covertly, with malicious spy software, sometimes in cooperation with local authorities, designed to steal sensitive information.\n\nAccording to the classified documents leaked by Snowden, the Australian Signals Directorate, formerly known as the Defence Signals Directorate, had offered to share information on Australian citizens with the other intelligence agencies of the UKUSA Agreement. Data shared with foreign countries include \"bulk, unselected, unminimised metadata\" such as \"medical, legal or religious information\".\n\n\"The Washington Post\" revealed that the NSA has been tracking the locations of mobile phones from all over the world by tapping into the cables that connect mobile networks globally and that serve U.S. cellphones as well as foreign ones. In the process of doing so, the NSA collects more than five billion records of phone locations on a daily basis. This enables NSA analysts to map cellphone owners’ relationships by correlating their patterns of movement over time with thousands or millions of other phone users who cross their paths.\n\nThe Washington Post also reported that the NSA makes use of location data and advertising tracking files generated through normal internet browsing i.e. tools that enable Internet advertisers to track consumers from Google and others to get information on potential targets, to pinpoint targets for government hacking and to bolster surveillance.\n\nThe Norwegian Intelligence Service (NIS), which cooperates with the NSA, has gained access to Russian targets in the Kola Peninsula and other civilian targets. In general, the NIS provides information to the NSA about \"Politicians\", \"Energy\" and \"Armament\". A top secret memo of the NSA lists the following years as milestones of the Norway-United States of America SIGNT agreement, or NORUS Agreement:\n\nThe NSA considers the NIS to be one of its most reliable partners. Both agencies also cooperate to crack the encryption systems of mutual targets. According to the NSA, Norway has made no objections to its requests from the NIS.\n\nOn 5 December, Sveriges Television reported that the National Defence Radio Establishment (FRA) has been conducting a clandestine surveillance operation in Sweden, targeting the internal politics of Russia. The operation was conducted on behalf of the NSA, receiving data handed over to it by the FRA. The Swedish-American surveillance operation also targeted Russian energy interests as well as the Baltic states. As part of the UKUSA Agreement, a secret treaty was signed in 1954 by Sweden with the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, regarding collaboration and intelligence sharing.\n\nAs a result of Snowden's disclosures, the notion of Swedish neutrality in international politics was called into question. In an internal document dating from the year 2006, the NSA acknowledged that its \"relationship\" with Sweden is \"protected at the TOP SECRET level because of that nation’s political neutrality.\" Specific details of Sweden's cooperation with members of the UKUSA Agreement include:\n\nIn order to identify targets for government hacking and surveillance, both the GCHQ and the NSA have used advertising cookies operated by Google, known as Pref, to \"pinpoint\" targets. According to documents leaked by Snowden, the Special Source Operations of the NSA has been sharing information containing \"logins, cookies, and GooglePREFID\" with the Tailored Access Operations division of the NSA, as well as Britain's GCHQ agency.\n\nDuring the 2010 G-20 Toronto summit, the U.S. embassy in Ottawa was transformed into a security command post during a six-day spying operation that was conducted by the NSA and closely co-ordinated with the Communications Security Establishment Canada (CSEC). The goal of the spying operation was, among others, to obtain information on international development, banking reform, and to counter trade protectionism to support \"U.S. policy goals.\" On behalf of the NSA, the CSEC has set up covert spying posts in 20 countries around the world.\n\nIn Italy the Special Collection Service of the NSA maintains two separate surveillance posts in Rome and Milan. According to a secret NSA memo dated September 2010, the Italian embassy in Washington, D.C. has been targeted by two spy operations of the NSA:\n\nDue to concerns that terrorist or criminal networks may be secretly communicating via computer games, the NSA, the GCHQ, the CIA, and the FBI have been conducting surveillance and scooping up data from the networks of many online games, including massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPGs) such as World of Warcraft, as well as virtual worlds such as Second Life, and the Xbox gaming console.\n\nThe NSA has cracked the most commonly used cellphone encryption technology, A5/1. According to a classified document leaked by Snowden, the agency can \"process encrypted A5/1\" even when it has not acquired an encryption key. In addition, the NSA uses various types of cellphone infrastructure, such as the links between carrier networks, to determine the location of a cellphone user tracked by Visitor Location Registers.\n\nUS district court judge for the District of Columbia, Richard Leon, declared on December 16, 2013, that the mass collection of metadata of Americans’ telephone records by the National Security Agency probably violates the fourth amendment prohibition of unreasonable searches and seizures. Leon granted the request for a preliminary injunction that blocks the collection of phone data for two private plaintiffs (Larry Klayman, a conservative lawyer, and Charles Strange, father of a cryptologist killed in Afghanistan when his helicopter was shot down in 2011) and ordered the government to destroy any of their records that have been gathered. But the judge stayed action on his ruling pending a government appeal, recognizing in his 68-page opinion the “significant national security interests at stake in this case and the novelty of the constitutional issues.”\n\nHowever federal judge William H. Pauley III in New York City ruled the U.S. government’s global telephone data-gathering system is needed to thwart potential terrorist attacks, and that it can only work if everyone’s calls are swept in. U.S. District Judge Pauley also ruled that Congress legally set up the program and that it does not violate anyone’s constitutional rights. The judge also concluded that the telephone data being swept up by NSA did not belong to telephone users, but to the telephone companies. He further ruled that when NSA obtains such data from the telephone companies, and then probes into it to find links between callers and potential terrorists, this further use of the data was not even a search under the Fourth Amendment. He also concluded that the controlling precedent is Smith v. Maryland: “Smith’s bedrock holding is that an individual has no legitimate expectation of privacy in information provided to third parties,” Judge Pauley wrote. The American Civil Liberties Union declared on January 2, 2012 that it will appeal Judge Pauley's ruling that NSA bulk the phone record collection is legal. \"The government has a legitimate interest in tracking the associations of suspected terrorists, but tracking those associations does not require the government to subject every citizen to permanent surveillance,” deputy ACLU legal director Jameel Jaffer said in a statement.\n\nIn recent years, American and British intelligence agencies conducted surveillance on more than 1,100 targets, including the office of an Israeli prime minister, heads of international aid organizations, foreign energy companies and a European Union official involved in antitrust battles with American technology businesses.\n\nA catalog of high-tech gadgets and software developed by the NSA's Tailored Access Operations (TAO) was leaked by the German news magazine \"Der Spiegel\". Dating from 2008, the catalog revealed the existence of special gadgets modified to capture computer screenshots and USB flash drives secretly fitted with radio transmitters to broadcast stolen data over the airwaves, and fake base stations intended to intercept mobile phone signals, as well as many other secret devices and software implants listed here:\n\nThe Tailored Access Operations (TAO) division of the NSA intercepted the shipping deliveries of computers and laptops in order to install spyware and physical implants on electronic gadgets. This was done in close cooperation with the FBI and the CIA. NSA officials responded to the Spiegel reports with a statement, which said: \"Tailored Access Operations is a unique national asset that is on the front lines of enabling NSA to defend the nation and its allies. [TAO's] work is centred on computer network exploitation in support of foreign intelligence collection.\"\n\nIn a separate disclosure unrelated to Snowden, the French Trésor public, which runs a certificate authority, was found to have issued fake certificates impersonating Google in order to facilitate spying on French government employees via man-in-the-middle attacks.\n\nThe NSA is working to build a powerful quantum computer capable of breaking all types of encryption. The effort is part of a US$79.7 million research program known as \"Penetrating Hard Targets\". It involves extensive research carried out in large, shielded rooms known as Faraday cages, which are designed to prevent electromagnetic radiation from entering or leaving. Currently, the NSA is close to producing basic building blocks that will allow the agency to gain \"complete quantum control on two semiconductor qubits\". Once a quantum computer is successfully built, it would enable the NSA to unlock the encryption that protects data held by banks, credit card companies, retailers, brokerages, governments and health care providers.\n\nAccording to the New York Times the NSA is monitoring approximately 100.000 computers worldwide with spy software named Quantum. Quantum enables the NSA to conduct surveillance on those computers on the one hand and can also create a digital highway for launching cyberattacks on the other hand. Among the targets are the Chinese and Russian military, but also trade institutions within the European Union. The NYT also reported that the NSA can access and alter computers which are not connected with the internet by a secret technology in use by the NSA since 2008. The prerequisite is the physically insertion of the radio frequency hardware by a spy, a manufacturer or an unwitting user. The technology relies on a covert channel of radio waves that can be transmitted from tiny circuit boards and USB cards inserted surreptitiously into the computers. In some cases, they are sent to a briefcase-size relay station that intelligence agencies can set up miles away from the target. The technology can also transmit malware back to the infected computer.\n\nChannel 4 and \"The Guardian\" revealed the existence of Dishfire, a massive database of the NSA that collects hundreds of millions of text messages on a daily basis. The GCHQ has been given full access to the database, which it uses to obtain personal information of Britons by exploiting a legal loophole.\n\nEach day, the database receives and stores the following amounts of data:\n\n\nThe database is supplemented with an analytical tool known as the Prefer program, which processes SMS messages to extract other types of information including contacts from missed call alerts.\nAccording to a joint diclosure by \"the New York Times\", \"the Guardian\", and ProPublica, the NSA and the GCHQ have begun working together to collect and store data from dozens of smartphone application software by 2007 at the latest. A 2008 GCHQ report leaked by Snowden asserts that \"anyone using Google Maps on a smartphone is working in support of a GCHQ system\". The NSA and the GCHQ have traded recipes for various purposes such as grabbing location data and journey plans that are made when a target uses Google Maps, and vacuuming up address books, buddy lists, phone logs and geographic data embedded in photos posted on the mobile versions of numerous social networks such as Facebook, Flickr, LinkedIn, Twitter and other services. In a separate 20-page report dated 2012, the GCHQ cited the popular smarphone game \"Angry Birds\" as an example of how an application could be used to extract user data. Taken together, such forms of data collection would allow the agencies to collect vital information about a user's life, including his or her home country, current location (through geolocation), age, gender, ZIP code, marital status, income, ethnicity, sexual orientation, education level, number of children, etc.\n\nA GCHQ document dated August 2012 provided details of the Squeaky Dolphin surveillance program, which enables the GCHQ to conduct broad, real-time monitoring of various social media features and social media traffic such as YouTube video views, the Like button on Facebook, and Blogspot/Blogger visits without the knowledge or consent of the companies providing those social media features. The agency’s “Squeaky Dolphin” program can collect, analyze and utilize YouTube, Facebook and Blogger data in specific situations in real time for analysis purposes. The program also collects the addresses from the billion of videos watched daily as well as some user information for analysis purposes.\n\nDuring the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, the NSA and its Five Eyes partners monitored the communications of delegates of numerous countries. This was done to give their own policymakers a negotiating advantage.\n\nThe Communications Security Establishment Canada (CSEC) has been tracking Canadian air passengers via free Wi-Fi services at a major Canadian airport. Passengers who exited the airport terminal continued to be tracked as they showed up at other Wi-Fi locations across Canada. In a CSEC document dated May 2012, the agency described how it had gained access to two communications systems with over 300,000 users in order to pinpoint a specific imaginary target. The operation was executed on behalf of the NSA as a trial run to test a new technology capable of tracking down \"any target that makes occasional forays into other cities/regions.\" This technology was subsequently shared with Canada's Five Eyes partners - Australia, New Zealand, Britain, and the United States.\n\nAccording to research by \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" and TV network NDR the mobile phone of former German chancellor Gerhard Schröder was monitored from 2002 onwards, reportedly because of his government's opposition to military intervention in Iraq. The source of the latest information is a document leaked by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden. The document, containing information about the National Sigint Requirement List (NSRL), had previously been interpreted as referring only to Angela Merkel's mobile. However \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" and NDR claim to have confirmation from NSA insiders that the surveillance authorisation pertains not to the individual, but the political post – which in 2002 was still held by Schröder. According to research by the two media outlets, Schröder was placed as number 388 on the list, which contains the names of persons and institutions to be put under surveillance by the NSA.\n\nThe GCHQ launched a cyber-attack on the activist network \"Anonymous\", using denial-of-service attack (DoS) to shut down a chatroom frequented by the network's members and to spy on them. The attack, dubbed Rolling Thunder, was conducted by a GCHQ unit known as the Joint Threat Research Intelligence Group (JTRIG). The unit successfully uncovered the true identities of several Anonymous members.\n\nThe NSA Section 215 bulk telephony metadata program which seeks to stockpile records on all calls made in the U.S. is collecting less than 30 percent of all Americans’ call records because of an inability to keep pace with the explosion in cellphone use according to the Washington Post.. The controversial program permits the NSA after a warrant granted by the secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to record numbers, length and location of every call from the participating carriers in.\n\nThe NSA has built an infrastructure which enables it to covertly hack into computers on a mass scale by using automated systems that reduce the level of human oversight in the process. The NSA relies on an automated system codenamed TURBINE which in essence enables the automated management and control of a large network of implants (a form of remotely transmitted malware on selected individual computer devices or in bulk on tens of thousands of devices). As quoted by \"The Intercept\", TURBINE is designed to \"allow the current implant network to scale to large size (millions of implants) by creating a system that does automated control implants by groups instead of individually.\" The NSA has shared many of its files on the use of implants with its counterparts in the so-called Five Eyes surveillance alliance – the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, and Australia.\n\nAmong other things due to TURBINE and its control over the implants the NSA is capable of:\n\n\nThe TURBINE implants are linked to, and relies upon, a large network of clandestine surveillance \"sensors\" that the NSA has installed at locations across the world, including the agency's headquarters in Maryland and eavesdropping bases used by the agency in Misawa, Japan and Menwith Hill, England. Codenamed as TURMOIL, the sensors operate as a sort of high-tech surveillance dragnet, monitoring packets of data as they are sent across the Internet. When TURBINE implants exfiltrate data from infected computer systems, the TURMOIL sensors automatically identify the data and return it to the NSA for analysis. And when targets are communicating, the TURMOIL system can be used to send alerts or \"tips\" to TURBINE, enabling the initiation of a malware attack. To identify surveillance targets, the NSA uses a series of data \"selectors\" as they flow across Internet cables. These selectors can include email addresses, IP addresses, or the unique \"cookies\" containing a username or other identifying information that are sent to a user's computer by websites such as Google, Facebook, Hotmail, Yahoo, and Twitter, unique Google advertising cookies that track browsing habits, unique encryption key fingerprints that can be traced to a specific user, and computer IDs that are sent across the Internet when a Windows computer crashes or updates.\n\nThe CIA was accused by U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee Chairwoman Dianne Feinstein of spying on a stand-alone computer network established for the committee in its investigation of allegations of CIA abuse in a George W. Bush-era detention and interrogation program.\n\nA voice interception program codenamed MYSTIC began in 2009. Along with RETRO, short for \"retrospective retrieval\" (RETRO is voice audio recording buffer that allows retrieval of captured content up to 30 days into the past), the MYSTIC program is capable of recording \"100 percent\" of a foreign country's telephone calls, enabling the NSA to rewind and review conversations up to 30 days and the relating metadata. With the capability to store up to 30 days of recorded conversations MYSTIC enables the NSA to pull an instant history of the person's movements, associates and plans.\n\nOn March 21, \"Le Monde\" published slides from an internal presentation of the Communications Security Establishment Canada, which attributed a piece of malicious software to French intelligence. The CSEC presentation concluded that the list of malware victims matched French intelligence priorities and found French cultural reference in the malware's code, including the name Babar, a popular French children's character, and the developer name \"Titi\".\n\nThe French telecommunications corporation Orange S.A. shares its call data with the French intelligence agency DGSE, which hands over the intercepted data to GCHQ.\n\nThe NSA has spied on the Chinese technology company Huawei. Huawei is a leading manufacturer of smartphones, tablets, mobile phone infrastructure, and WLAN routers and installs fiber optic cable. According to \"Der Spiegel\" this \"kind of technology […] is decisive in the NSA's battle for data supremacy.\" The NSA, in an operation named \"Shotgiant\", was able to access Huawei's email archive and the source code for Huawei's communications products. The US government has had longstanding concerns that Huawei may not be independent of the People's Liberation Army and that the Chinese government might use equipment manufactured by Huawei to conduct cyberespionage or cyberwarfare. The goals of the NSA operation were to assess the relationship between Huawei and the PLA, to learn more the Chinese government's plans and to use information from Huawei to spy on Huawei's customers, including Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Kenya, and Cuba. Former Chinese President Hu Jintao, the Chinese Trade Ministry, banks, as well as telecommunications companies were also targeted by the NSA.\n\n\"The Intercept\" published a document of an NSA employee discussing how to build a database of IP addresses, webmail, and Facebook accounts associated with system administrators so that the NSA can gain access to the networks and systems they administer.\n\nAt the end of March 2014, Der Spiegel and \"The Intercept\" published, based on a series of classified files from the archive provided to reporters by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden, articles related to espionage efforts by GCHQ and NSA in Germany. The British GCHQ targeted three German internet firms for information about Internet traffic passing through internet exchange points, important customers of the German internet providers, their technology suppliers as well as future technical trends in their business sector and company employees. The NSA was granted by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court the authority for blanket surveillance of Germany, its people and institutions, regardless whether those affected are suspected of having committed an offense or not, without an individualized court order specifying on March 7, 2013. In addition Germany's chancellor Angela Merkel was listed in a surveillance search machine and database named Nymrod along with 121 others foreign leaders. As \"The Intercept\" wrote: \"The NSA uses the Nymrod system to 'find information relating to targets that would otherwise be tough to track down,' according to internal NSA documents. Nymrod sifts through secret reports based on intercepted communications as well as full transcripts of faxes, phone calls, and communications collected from computer systems. More than 300 'cites' for Merkel are listed as available in intelligence reports and transcripts for NSA operatives to read.\"\n\nTowards the end of April, Edward Snowden said that the United States surveillance agencies spy on Americans more than anyone else in the world, contrary to anything that has been said by the government up until this point.\n\nAn article published by Ars Technica shows NSA's Tailored Access Operations (TAO) employees intercepting a Cisco router.\n\n\"The Intercept\" and WikiLeaks revealed information about which countries were having their communications collected as part of the MYSTIC surveillance program. On May 19, \"The Intercept\" reported that the NSA is recording and archiving nearly every cell phone conversation in the Bahamas with a system called SOMALGET, a subprogram of MYSTIC. The mass surveillance has been occurring without the Bahamian government's permission. Aside from the Bahamas, \"The Intercept\" reported NSA interception of cell phone metadata in Kenya, the Philippines, Mexico and a fifth country it did not name due to \"credible concerns that doing so could lead to increased violence.\" WikiLeaks released a statement on May 23 claiming that Afghanistan was the unnamed nation.\n\nIn a statement responding to the revelations, the NSA said \"the implication that NSA's foreign intelligence collection is arbitrary and unconstrained is false.\"\n\nThrough its global surveillance operations the NSA exploits the flood of images included in emails, text messages, social media, videoconferences and other communications to harvest millions of images. These images are then used by the NSA in sophisticated facial recognition programs to track suspected terrorists and other intelligence targets.\n\nVodafone revealed that there were secret wires that allowed government agencies direct access to their networks. This access does not require warrants and the direct access wire is often equipment in a locked room. In six countries where Vodafone operates, the law requires telecommunication companies to install such access or allows governments to do so. Vodafone did not name these countries in case some governments retaliated by imprisoning their staff. Shami Chakrabarti of Liberty said \"For governments to access phone calls at the flick of a switch is unprecedented and terrifying. Snowden revealed the internet was already treated as fair game. Bluster that all is well is wearing pretty thin – our analogue laws need a digital overhaul.\" Vodafone published its first Law Enforcement Disclosure Report on June 6, 2014. Vodafone group privacy officer Stephen Deadman said \"These pipes exist, the direct access model exists. We are making a call to end direct access as a means of government agencies obtaining people's communication data. Without an official warrant, there is no external visibility. If we receive a demand we can push back against the agency. The fact that a government has to issue a piece of paper is an important constraint on how powers are used.\" Gus Hosein, director of Privacy International said \"I never thought the telcos would be so complicit. It's a brave step by Vodafone and hopefully the other telcos will become more brave with disclosure, but what we need is for them to be braver about fighting back against the illegal requests and the laws themselves.\"\n\nAbove-top-secret documentation of a covert surveillance program named Overseas Processing Centre 1 (OPC-1) (codenamed \"CIRCUIT\") by GCHQ was published by \"The Register\". Based on documents leaked by Edward Snowden, GCHQ taps into undersea fiber optic cables via secret spy bases near the Strait of Hormuz and Yemen. BT and Vodafone are implicated.\n\nThe Danish newspaper Dagbladet Information and \"The Intercept\" revealed on June 19, 2014, the NSA mass surveillance program codenamed RAMPART-A. Under RAMPART-A, 'third party' countries tap into fiber optic cables carrying the majority of the world's electronic communications and are secretly allowing the NSA to install surveillance equipment on these fiber-optic cables. The foreign partners of the NSA turn massive amounts of data like the content of phone calls, faxes, e-mails, internet chats, data from virtual private networks, and calls made using Voice over IP software like Skype over to the NSA. In return these partners receive access to the NSA's sophisticated surveillance equipment so that they too can spy on the mass of data that flows in and out of their territory. Among the partners participating in the NSA mass surveillance program are Denmark and Germany.\n\nDuring the week of July 4, a 31-year-old male employee of Germany's intelligence service BND was arrested on suspicion of spying for the United States. The employee is suspected of spying on the German Parliamentary Committee investigating the NSA spying scandal.\n\nFormer NSA official and whistleblower William Binney spoke at a Centre for Investigative Journalism conference in London. According to Binney, \"at least 80% of all audio calls, not just metadata, are recorded and stored in the US. The NSA lies about what it stores.\" He also stated that the majority of fiber optic cables run through the U.S., which \"is no accident and allows the US to view all communication coming in.\"\n\n\"The Washington Post\" released a review of a cache provided by Snowden containing roughly 160,000 text messages and e-mails intercepted by the NSA between 2009 and 2012. The newspaper concluded that nine out of ten account holders whose conversations were recorded by the agency \"were not the intended surveillance targets but were caught in a net the agency had cast for somebody else.\" In its analysis, \"The Post\" also noted that many of the account holders were Americans.\n\nOn July 9, a soldier working within Germany's Federal Ministry of Defence (BMVg) fell under suspicion of spying for the United States. As a result of the July 4 case and this one, the German government expelled the CIA station chief in Germany on July 17.\n\nOn July 18, former State Department official John Tye released an editorial in \"The Washington Post\", highlighting concerns over data collection under Executive Order 12333. Tye's concerns are rooted in classified material he had access to through the State Department, though he has not publicly released any classified materials.\n\n\"The Intercept\" reported that the NSA is \"secretly providing data to nearly two dozen U.S. government agencies with a 'Google-like' search engine\" called ICREACH. The database, \"The Intercept\" reported, is accessible to domestic law enforcement agencies including the FBI and the Drug Enforcement Administration and was built to contain more than 850 billion metadata records about phone calls, emails, cellphone locations, and text messages.\n\nBased on documents obtained from Snowden, \"The Intercept\" reported that the NSA and GCHQ had broken into the internal computer network of Gemalto and stolen the encryption keys that are used in SIM cards no later than 2010. , the company is the world's largest manufacturer of SIM cards, making about two billion cards a year. With the keys, the intelligence agencies could eavesdrop on cell phones without the knowledge of mobile phone operators or foreign governments.\n\n\"The New Zealand Herald\", in partnership with \"The Intercept\", revealed that the New Zealand government used XKeyscore to spy on candidates for the position of World Trade Organization director general and also members of the Solomon Islands government.\n\nIn January 2015, the DEA revealed that it had been collecting metadata records for all telephone calls made by Americans to 116 countries linked to drug trafficking. The DEA's program was separate from the telephony metadata programs run by the NSA. In April, \"USA Today\" reported that the DEA's data collection program began in 1992 and included all telephone calls between the United States and from Canada and Mexico. Current and former DEA officials described the program as the precursor of the NSA's similar programs. The DEA said its program was suspended in September 2013, after a review of the NSA's programs and that it was \"ultimately terminated.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11604276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11604276", "title": "Wilhelm Diekamp", "text": "Wilhelm Diekamp\n\nWilhelm Diekamp (13 May 1854, Geldern – 25 December 1885, Rome) was a German historian.\n\nSoon after his birth, his parents moved to Münster in Westphalia, where he made his collegiate studies (1867–72). From 1872 to 1875 he studied theology at Würzburg and at Münster. Feeling uncertain, however, as to his ecclesiastical calling, he abandoned his desire of entering the priesthood, and took up the study of philology.\n\nIn 1877 he graduated as doctor of philosophy with the dissertation: \"Widukind, der Sachsenführer nach Geschichte und Sage\" (Münster, 1877). Excessive study led to grave pulmonary disease. For some time he taught in the public schools of Münster, Arnsberg, and Aachen, developing in the meantime his historical training. Evidence of this was his \"Vitae S. Ludgeri\" (Geschichtsquellen des Bistums Münster, IV, Münster, 1881).\n\nIn 1881 the Westfalischer Verein fur Geschichte und Altertumskunde confided to him the continuation of the \"Westfälisches Urkundenbuch\". He returned to Münster and in 1882 he became \"Privatdozent\" for history there. Previously, however, he spent a year at Vienna for improvement in diplomatics at the \"Institut fur oesterreichische Geschichtsforschung\" under the direction of Theodor von Sickel.\n\nAt Easter, 1883, he began his teaching at Münster, continuing at the same time his historical investigations, specially on Westphalian documents, the history of the papal chancery, and papal diplomatics. In 1885 he published at Münster the first part of the supplement of the \"Westfälisches Urkundenbuch\".\n\nIn the autumn of this year he went to Rome, chiefly to collect in the Vatican archives the material for the large works he had in mind. But typhoid carried him off in the midst of his labours. He was buried in the German Campo Santo near St. Peter's.\n\nDiekamp also published between 1878 and 1885 several important studies in different reviews concerning the history of the Middle Ages and diplomatics or official style of the medieval papal documents.\n\n"}
{"id": "39749407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39749407", "title": "Yongjugol", "text": "Yongjugol\n\nYong Ju Gol (also spelled Yongjugol, Yongju-gol, and Yongju-Gol) is a red-light district in Paju, Gyeonggi Province, South Korea. Yong Ju Gol began as a village that came into being during the Korean War to service members of the United States Army stationed at a nearby military camp whose spending was the sole source of revenue for the village. The military camp, Camp Ross, was just south of Yong Ju Gol and separated the village from Seoul. Once the post-war repatriation of prisoners concluded and until 1955, the 24th Military Police Company (seemingly the divisional MP company of the 24th Infantry Division) worked with other United Nations Command military police in Yong Ju Gol to keep law and order in the area. In 1966, a museum dedicated to the 2nd Infantry Division was opened near Yong Ju Gol, having been relocated there from Fort Benning, Georgia, but the museum was moved to Camp Casey five years later. In 1980, American soldier Freddie Grant attacked another American soldier with a straight razor outside a Yong Ju Gol nightclub and was subsequently imprisoned in the United States Disciplinary Barracks. Although it is illegal to engage in prostitution in South Korea, women continue to engage in sex work in Yong Ju Gol through massage parlors, karaoke bars, and kissing rooms. In 2006, South Korea's Minister of Gender Equality and Family, Jang Ha-jin, called Yong Ju Gol \"the heart of prostitution\" in Korea. A popular \"manhwa\" called \"Yongjugol Blues\" glamorizes the prostitution in the area.\n"}
{"id": "32010169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32010169", "title": "Zoltán Bíró", "text": "Zoltán Bíró\n\nZoltán Bíró (born 21 April 1941) is a Hungarian literary historian, writer and politician who served as the first president of the Hungarian Democratic Forum. He quit the party in 1991 and became founding member of the National Democratic Alliance. He served as co-chairman of the new party along with Imre Pozsgay.\n\n\n"}
