{"id": "33283552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33283552", "title": "Andean Cat Alliance", "text": "Andean Cat Alliance\n\nThe Andean Cat Alliance (Alianza Gato Andino - AGA) is a network of researchers and conservationists working to study and protect the andean cat (\"Leopardus jacobita\") and its habitat in Argentina, Bolivia, Chile and Peru. It is partnered with the Wildlife Conservation Network, and has developed a strategic plan for conservation of the species.\n\nAGA was founded in 1999, and comprises around 25 professional biologists and other scientists.\n\nThe Andean cat is regarded as one of the most endangered wild cats in the world and perhaps the rarest South American felid. Very little is known about this species and there have been only 10 documented sightings in the last 25 years. The Alliance has managed to be the first to capture and radio-collar an Andean cat, and were also the first to obtain photographs by camera trap.\n\nThe Andean Cat Alliance uses camera trapping, DNA analysis of feces, and surveys of local inhabitants to confirm the andean cats presence. AGA has widened the cat's known range in Peru and Argentina and has helped to better understand its population density and genetic variability.\n\nThe Andean Cat Alliance conducts training for park guards and local people to help them become local wildlife monitors so they may better contribute to protecting the andean cat and its habitat. Other activities include holding seminars and community festivals to both develop conservation strategies, and to raise awareness and learn the needs of the communities in each of the four range countries. AGA's publicity initiatives have included getting the Chilean government to associate the animal with the \"Day of Native Fauna\", marked annually on 5 November.\n\nThe Alliance is building an EcoMuseo (“Ecological Museum”) in the “Centro Poblado Menor de Alto Perú,” a Peruvian village located in proximity to andean cat habitat. Working with the Small Wild Cat Conservation Foundation (SWCCF) it has established a conservation center in the Salar de Surire, Chile, where it aims to dissuade the local people from hunting the animal.\n\nOne of the main goals of the Alliance is to work with governments to strengthen management of Andean cat habitat and promote new protected areas and corridors where needed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32152903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32152903", "title": "Andrew Kamarck", "text": "Andrew Kamarck\n\nAndrew Martin Kamarck (died 3 March 2010) was an American economist, Director of the Economic Development Institute at the World Bank and Regents Professor at University of California, Los Angeles.\n\nIn 1936, Kamarck got his BA summa cum laude at Harvard University. In 1951, he got his Ph.D at Harvard. He worked for the Federal Reserve Board and, during World War II, he \"was posted to the Allied Control Commission for Italy, where he supervised the Banca d'Italia\". In 1944, he \"was assigned as Chief of the U.S. Financial Intelligence in Germany\".\n\nHe then continued to work for the United States Secretary of the Treasury in 1946, contributing to the \"policy guidelines for the Marshall Plan.\" He later became World Bank Economic Adviser, Professor at University of California, Los Angeles (1964–65) \"and Research Associate at the Harvard Center of International Affairs.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18918580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18918580", "title": "Badara, Artsakh", "text": "Badara, Artsakh\n\nBadara (also Bodara and Ptretsik) is a village in the Khojali Rayon of Azerbaijan. Since the Nagorno-Karabakh war the town has been administered by the \"de facto\" Republic of Artsakh as part of Askeran Province.\n"}
{"id": "9511063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9511063", "title": "Borden Base Line", "text": "Borden Base Line\n\nThe Borden Base Line is a historic survey line (7.42 miles, long) running north/south through Hatfield and South Deerfield, Massachusetts. It was completed in 1831, and is now on the List of historic civil engineering landmarks.\n\nThe base line measurement was the first project of its kind undertaken in America, and essential for Massachusetts' pioneering Trigonometrical Survey, performed under chief engineer Robert Treat Paine. Its careful measurement was critical, since the accuracy of the whole triangulation network depended on it.\n\nThe base line was measured with greater accuracy than previously possible by using a new measuring device invented by Simeon Borden, which employed a bi-metallic measuring instrument to provide constant readings despite temperature variations. His apparatus was long, enclosed in a tube, and employed with four compound microscopes.\n\nBorden was a highly competent engineer whose ability was widely recognized. Indeed, the entire project became generally known as the Borden Survey. He measured the base line with a nominal accuracy of better than one part in 5 million. As Professor A. D. Butterfield has written, \"The work performed and results obtained far surpassed in magnitude and attainment of any previous work of this kind in America.\"\n\nIt appears that the north end of the baseline lies just south of the intersection of today's Route 116 and Route 5 in South Deerfield, Massachusetts. According to the Valley Historians, the south end is still marked by a copper plug set into a boulder, located in the back yard of the house at 30 Bridge Street, Hatfield, Massachusetts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20372214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20372214", "title": "Cape St. Charles", "text": "Cape St. Charles\n\nCape St. Charles is a headland on the coast of Labrador in the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador. At longitude 55°37'15\"W it is the easternmost point of continental North America.\n"}
{"id": "31260212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31260212", "title": "Cartography of Europe", "text": "Cartography of Europe\n\nThe earliest cartographic depictions of Europe are found in early world maps. In classical antiquity, \"Europe\" was assumed to cover the quarter of the globe north of the Mediterranean, an arrangement that was adhered to in medieval T and O maps.\n\nPtolemy's world map of the 2nd century already had a reasonably precise description of southern and western Europe, but was unaware of particulars of northern and eastern Europe.\n\nMedieval maps such as the Hereford Mappa Mundi still assumed that Scandinavia was an island. Progress was made in the 16th century, and Gerard Mercator gave an accurate representation of all of Europe, including Scandinavia shown as a peninsula.\n\n"}
{"id": "5219405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5219405", "title": "Chapeltoun", "text": "Chapeltoun\n\nChapeltoun is an estate on the banks of the Annick Water in East Ayrshire, Scotland. This is a rural area famous for its milk and cheese production and the Ayrshire or Dunlop breed of cattle.\n\nThe feudal allocation of tenements to the vassals of the overlord, such as Hugh de Morville, was carried out very carefully, with the boundaries being walked and carefully recorded. The term 'ton' at this time was added to the site of the dwelling house, not necessarily a grand stone-built structure, which was bounded by a wall or fence. The tenements were held in a military tenure, the land being in exchange for military assistance to the overlord. In later years the military assistance could be exchanged for financial payment.\n\nThe name Templeton may have arisen due to lands here being given by the overlord to a vassal. The site of the original dwelling is unknown, Laigh Chapelton being the oldest known site of a habitation, probably dating from at least 1775.\n\nThe name Chapelton is relatively recent as Pont's Map of 1604 does not show such a place name; however, he does show a Templeton in approximately the right place between the Annick Water and the Glazert Water. Other Knights Templar temple-lands were to be found at the Templehouse and Fortalice in the old village of Darlington near Stewarton, Templehouse near Dunlop, at Templetounburn on the outskirts of Crookedholm and at several other places in the area, such as Temple-Ryburn and Temple-Hapland.\n\nIn 1312 the Knights Templar order, whose Scottish headquarters had been at Torphichen, was disbanded and its lands given to the Knights of St. John who today run the St John Ambulance amongst other activities. Lord Torphichen as preceptor obtained the temple-land tenements and the lands passed through the hands of Montgomerie of Hessilhead to Wallace of Cairnhill (now Carnell) in 1720, before passing out of the hands of the aristocracy. A tenement is a grant of land which has a building on it and is held in tenure by the tenant\n\nThe farms in the area used the Chapelton name in 1829 (Aitken) and Armstrong's 1775 map shows and names a Chapel. The name change from Templetoun to Chapelton may have resulted from the end of the official existence of the temple-lands sometime after 1720 or as a result of the breaking up of the ownership of these lands at around this date or possibly slightly earlier. Thus the name Templeton was in use in 1604 in 1654, but not by 1775 The will of Katherine Muir / Mure, dated 1665, relict of William Hepburn of Chapeltoun in the Parish of Stewarton, implies a change of name at an earlier date. This Chapeltoun may be the modern day Chapeltoun Mains.\n\nPaterson (1866) states that \"on the lands of Langshaw (now Lainshaw) there was a chapel, dedicated to the Virgin Mary and that it had an appropriate endowment\". After the Reformation the endowment was appropriated by the patron and the chapel allowed to fall into ruins. Temple-lands did not pay teins to maintain the local church and they were therefore a highly prized and lucrative asset.\n\nIn 1616 the patronage of the chapel and the lands of Peacock Bank (sic) were held by Sir Neil Montgomerie of Lainshaw as granted 'clare constat' by the Earl of Eglinton, but by 1661 the patronage was once again held directly by the Earl of Eglinton as indicated below. The site of the chapel was called Chapelton in the 17th century and Chapel by 1874. The same information is given by Paterson in 1866, Groome in 1885 and Barclay.\n\nDobie in 1876 records that Hugh, Earl of Eglinton inherited in May 1661 the 10 merkland of Langshaw with the patronage of the Chapel of the Blessed Virgin within these lands. A reference is made to a James Wyllie, whose family held these lands for several generations. This statement is made as part of a reference to the 5 merk lands of Gallaberry which were part of a larger area of land, most of which belonged to the estate of Dunlop. The name Gallaberry is thought to be derived from the Saxon word \"burgh\" and the Celtic word Gauls, the term meaning therefore the burgh, mansion or strength of the Gauls. Sanderson mentions a rural chapel dedicated to the Virgin Mother Mary located on the Lainshaw lands.\n\nIt is relevant here to note that Dobie lists three families with the name Tempiltoun in the Kilmaurs valuation role of 1640 while no other Cunninghame parishes have this name listed. One of the oldest graves in Kilmaurs-Glencairn churchyard, dating from the 17th century, is that of a Tempiltoun. The family Bible of the Templetons is held (2008) by the Forrests of Byres Farm, who are direct descendants.\n\nDobie states that two chapels existed, one at Lainshaw and one at Chapeltoun, however he may have confused the term 'attached' which can mean that it was on the land of or had been endowed by the owner or the Lord of the Barony, rather than necessarily being in close proximity to the castle/house of Lainshaw. If Patersons statement implying that only one chapel existed and that it was at Chapelton is correct, and he was brought up locally, then our knowledge of the history of the Chapel of St. Mary is greatly increased.\n\nThe Topographical Dictionary of Scotland in 1846 states that \"About a mile from the town (Stewarton), on the farm of Chapelton (now Chapeltoun Mains), were recently dug up the foundations of an ancient chapel, of which however, no authentic records have been preserved.\"\n\nIn January 1678 Robert Cunynghame, druggist / apothecary / surgeon in Edinburgh, is stated to be the heir to Anne, daughter of Sir Robert Cunynghame of Auchenharvie. She was his cousin-german and part of the inheritance was 10 merk land of Fairlie-Crivoch, with the chapel lands and glebe of Fairlie-Crivoch. No other chapel is in the locality, so this most probably refers to the Chapel at Chapelton. He also owned much of the lands of Lambroughton. Crivoch was a barony and the lands had been split into Lindsay-Crevoch and Montgomerie-Crevoch. Fairlie Crevoch is probably the property close to the old Crivoch Mill at Kennox.\n\nThe chapel can never have been very large and was abandoned at the time of the Protestant reformation in Scotland led by the ex-Roman Catholic priest John Knox (1514 to 1572). It is not marked as a ruin on the 1775 Armstrong map, but as a small mansion house, implying that a Chapel House existed somewhere in the vicinity, in addition to the 1775 Laigh (possibly later named Chapelton). It has been stated that this site was just called 'chapel' at this time and this is the name given on Armstrong's map.\n\nNo evidence for the site of the priest's dwelling exists, however the site of the old Templeton/Chapelton House suggest itself. If the Laigh marked on the 1775 map refers to Laigh Chapelton then the antiquity of the site is further enhanced as it is the only other named site in the vicinity of the chapel.\n\nThe history of the monastic settlement and the chapel of Saint Mary at the Chapel Crags beside the Thugart stane/T'Ogra Stane/Thurgatstane/Thorgatstane/Field Spirit Stane/Ogrestane near Dunlop is a parallel example to the Chapel on the Chapel Hill. The pagan stone is still exists, long, broad and high, but no evidence of the Christian sites is visible, apart from the inconspicuous Holy Well in the field bordered by the burn. Bayne states that the stone may have been a rocking or 'logan stone' at one time and it is recorded that the farmer was not permitted to plough within a set distance of the stone, presumably because of a tradition of pagan burials around this monument, which is a 'glacial erratic' in origin. It was still worshiped up until \"the times of popery\" according to McIntosh.\n\nThe topography of the area is typical of the sort of site chosen for early ecclesiastical establishments and the building of chapels or churches on pagan sites is a classic example of the way that Christianity supplanted pagan beliefs and practices. Both these religious sites are also in sheltered valleys, with ample running water and they are hidden from view.\n\nAs stated the 1775 Armstrong map of Ayrshire clearly shows a 'Chapel' marked, so it was known to exist at this time, however the remains would have been mined/removed over the years by local farmers and used for building work, etc. The remains of the chapel would have been hard to locate by the early 18th century. Arrowsmith's 1807 map shows Chapel marked near Linshaw (Lainshaw) and no Laigh mentioned, while Ainslie's 1821 map shows a Chapel and a Laigh. It is likely that the term Chapel on most maps could be referring to a dwelling or farm and not the Chapel on the mound.\n\nThe 1856 'Name Book' of the OS states that part of the house of Chapelton (NS 395 441) is believed to have been a chapel dedicated to the Virgin Mary. Though parts of the building are of great age, it is not certain that this was the chapel; it may have been the residence of the chaplain, while the chapel stood near Chapel Hill. This Chapel Hill is a circular artificial hill. About 1850, Mr. J McAlister raised it to its present height by taking the earth etc. that had slid from its sides, and putting it on the top. While doing this, a quantity of human bones was found near the base on the S and E sides, and also some stones which from their appearance Mr. McAlister thought had been exposed to fire, suggesting that the old chapel was destroyed by fire. Mr. R Miller, a former proprietor, stated that when the present road past Chapel Hill was being made, a quantity of bones was found, giving the idea that there had been a burial ground here.\n\nSmith, the well known antiquarian, in 1895 describes the mound as being 22 paces in diameter, high on the low side and high on the high side. He states that it is well cared for and that a flight of steps, not clearly visible today, ran up from its base to the top. However significantly he makes no reference to any remains of the chapel itself. The 1897 25\" to the mile OS shows a path at the Chapelhill House side of the mound and a possibly a curving path or steps up. Smith also states that the mound was repaired some fifty years before, which fits in with the approximate dates for the likely construction of the Chapelton (old) house, by or for James McAlister who is given as the owner of Chapelton at around this time, and it is stated in 1874 that the chapel ruins were found some 40 years before, i.e. around 1834. The 1846 record states that they had been found recently however (Topo Dict Scot).\n\nIn 1842 it is recorded that \"Near the farm house of Low Chapelton, above a mile below Stewarton, on the right bank of the Annock, there appears to have once been a chapel, the ruins of which were lately dug up, when the proprietor was engaged in planting trees. There are now no records remaining of the place of worship.\"\n\nIn the 1980s a group of 'Wicca' chose the Chapel Hill top to hold a 'Halloween' festival with a large bonfire, etc., much to the surprise of the locals.\n\nA Moot Hill of Chapelton is recorded in the Register of the Great Seal of Scotland as being specifically excluded by King James from a grant of lands including Lainshaw, Robertland and Gallowberry to Alexander Hume in the 15th century. This could be a secondary use of a burial mound, although a number of the 'Moot' or 'Justice' Hills seem to have been constructed for the purpose. It may imply that the chapel itself was not on the hill, given that the 15th-century date is pre-reformation and the chapel would therefore be still in use.\n\nAlternative local names for the burial mound are the 'Jockey's cap' and the 'Monk's Graveyard', the 1897 OS map states that human bones were found in the hill. The Forrest family of Byres Farm are direct descendants of the Templetons and they use the term 'Monk's Graveyard' for the Chapel Hill. The validity of oral tradition in this case is exceptionally strong and may indicate that the chapel was not on the mound but on the site of the old Chapelton House. John Dobie in his additional notes to his father's work calls the site 'the Chapeltons'. The mound itself is one of the finest preserved Bronze Age burial mounds in Ayrshire. A previous owner of the Chapel Hill mound allowed an unofficial excavation to take place in around 2001. It is not known if any finds were made.\n\nA visit by the OS in August 1982 stated that \"It is difficult to make any accurate assessment of this feature. It has obviously been altered and landscaped beyond any recognition of its original form, and in its present state has an ornamental appearance. Situated on the edge of a natural N–S scarp line at approximately 60 m, it is possible that this was at one time just a slightly raised promontory, but as such, it is almost certainly not a motte and would be more typical of a homestead position in this region.”\n\nThe name 'Jockey's Cap' originates from the days when the annual 'Stewarton Bonnet Guild Festival' included horse racing – like the 'Irvine Marymass' Celebrations still do. The mound was the perfect site for viewing the 'racecourse' set out on the field below 'Chapeltoun Mains'. The shape of the mound is reminiscent of a jockey's cap.\n\nSir Neil Montgomery of Lainshaw married Elizabeth Cunninghame of Aiket and one of their sons, John of Cockilbie, had a son named John of Crivoch in the mid-17th century. He may have lived at Crivoch before it was purchased by the Somervilles and passed by marriage to the MacAlisters. The letters of Sir David Cunningham of Auchenharvie to his cousin the laird of Robertland preserved in the National Archives of Scotland detail his efforts to purchase some of these lands (NAS GD237/25/1-4) He sold some of them in turn to James Douglas of Chesters in 1642 (RGS, ix, (1634–1651), no.1189) In around 1700 John Somerville of the Kennox Estate in Lanarkshire purchased the Bollingshaw (now Bonshaw) Barony, including Chapeltoun, and built Kennox (also Kenox in 1832 and Kennoch in 1792) House on the lands of Montgomerie – Crevoch. \nHugh Montfode of that Ilk's sister Jean was married to John Miller of Laigh Chapelton who died in 1622; they had a son Hugh Miller. Jean Montfode nominated John Miller to be her executor. The American genealogist Steve Miller has revealed that in 1828 the deceased John Miller, was through his son James who was then living at Montfode House, being sued by Col Charles S. McAlister of Kennox.\n\nCharles S. McAlister and Janet had four children. They bequeathed the part of the Barony of Bollingshaw named Chapelton (the glebes and chapel lands of the Register of Sasines) to their younger son James, who never married and died in 1857.\nNo date is given for when James Somerville obtained Chapelton, however we know from Dobie that James McAlister, nephew of the aforementioned James, was the owner in 1874. This James McAlister, the nephew of James Somerville, also never married. Chapelton had been re-acquired into the Bollingshaw Barony for him by his Father, Charles McAlister.\n\nThe Armstrong map of 1775 show a 'Laigh' in fairly close proximity to the 'Chapel'. This is in all probability Laigh Chapelton, suggesting that a dwelling existed at this date and adding strength to the supposition that Laigh Chapelton was a building, or the site of a building, of some considerable antiquity. A legal document, 'Defences for James Wilson of High Chapelton sued by John Miller of Laigh Chapelton' in 1820 gives us the names of the tenants of both of these properties at this time The rental valuie circa 1820 was £180.\n\nThe formal name change from Templeton to Chapelton did not occur as a result of the rediscovery of the St. Mary's Chapel ruins by the new landowner, James McAlister, for it had clearly never been truly lost as such. However the discovery may help provide an approximate date for the reconstruction / extension of the house at Laigh Chapelton. Paterson says in 1866 that the chapel discovery was some years before, evidence from Dobie gives us the date of 1836 and Smith's evidence gives the date of 1845. Aitken shows only a Laigh Chapelton Farm in 1829 and all this suggests that the 'old' Chapelton House and estate were developed in around 1830 to 1850. The early to mid-19th century is a time during which many country houses were built, modernised or extended and OS maps show the increasing importance of the Laigh Chapelton estate around this time, with the development of formal gardens (from the 1858 OS), new driveways, etc.\n\nChapeltoun (Chapleton, Chappleton, Chapeltown, etc.) Mains farm changes its name from simple Chapelton, which Laigh Chapelton now adopts as the site of the new mansion house, sometime between 1829 and 1858. This suggests that at this time Chapelton Mains was the home farm prior to the building of what is now Chapelhill House in around 1911, as judged from the OS maps. A small building appears near the site of Chapelburn Cottage from 1858. The area around the front of the farm is referred to as 'Black Sawneys Park'; 'Sawney' being an English term for 'Alexander'. At one time it effectively meant a 'Scotsman', as with the use of the name 'Jock'. Another explanation is that the field had black sandy soil due to the river flooding onto the holm and creating rich fertile soil.\n\nA small property set in of the 5 Merk lands of Chapelton, named Wattshode or Wattshod is mentioned as far back as 1723 in the Chapeltoun Mains legal papers. Armstrong records a 'Wetshode' in 1775. In 1598 the word 'Wattshode' was some sort of fabric, frequently described as blue. It could include the local surname name 'Watt'.\n\nA shelter belt beside the track up to Bogflat and signs of nettle growth restricted to the possible site of a building suggests that Wattshode stood in this field behind Cankerton (previously Cantkertonhole). General Roy's map of 1747 – 55 marks only Watshode and Chapeltoun by name. 'Red Wat-shod' is a Scots expression used by Robert Burns meaning blood-spattered boots.\n\nA farm originally called Chapelton Moss Head by Thomson in 1828 or Mosshead of Chapelton, is later called just Mosshead and was situated in the fields of Bottoms Farm with its entrance just after the bridge over the Chapel Burn. All traces of it above ground have vanished, while Bogside cottage is still represented by building debris at the edge of the field near the entrance to the Bogflat Farm. Bogside had a rental value of £10 in 1820 and the proprietor was Robert Stevenson. Bottoms point Crevoch farm still exists close to Kennox (2009).\n\nBogflat Farm has been lovingly rebuilt circa 2004 by Stuart Kerr and his wife Stephanie. Stewarton Old Parish Records show Hugh Parker and his spouse Susanna Wardrop living at Bogflat in 1809 when their daughter Annabella was born. The Parkers were still in residence at the time of the 1841 census. Neighbours Susanna Wardrop Parker of Bogflat Farm and Agnes Wardrop Watt in Parkside Farm were sisters. John Earl and Isobel his spouse were residing at Bogside in 1827.\n\nIn 1881 an Alexander Muir, aged 38, a general merchant lived at Bogflat with his wife Margaret and sons David and John. A building named Bog is marked on Armstrong's 1775 map and this was most likely Bogflat for we know from a Marriage stone from Bogflat, now in the Stewarton Museum, that a dwelling was there in 1711 with a 'JR' recorded and other initials, unfortunately now cut off.\n\nIn 1919 Robert Bryce, Import and Export Merchant of Melbourne, Australia owned Chapelton and Bogflat.\n\nWindwaird is the name given by Aitken in 1829 to a house on the Torranyard to Stewarton road, not far from the fairly recently created entrance for pedestrians to Lainshaw House that runs through the Anderson Plantation (a name marked on the maps but not used by the local farmers). This building is called Parkside on the OS maps, first shown on the 1832 map, it is marked on the 1960, but not the 1974 OS. Stewarton Old Parish Records show Alexander Watt and his wife Agnes (Wardrop) in Parkside when their daughter Mary was born in May 1809. In 1809, neighbours Susanna Wardrop Parker in Bogflat Farm and Agnes Wardrop Watt in Parkside Farm were sisters. The last family to live here were the Muir's, relatives of the Muir's of Gillmill (also Gillmiln) Farm. A 'park' refers to an area of enclosed land in the days when most land was not enclosed with hedges or fencing.\n\nIn 1616 the \"lands of the Waird, etc.\" were conveyed to David Cunninghame of Robertland by William, Lord Kilmaurs (McNaught 1912), but any connection with this site is unproven. A \"waird\" is a feudal land tenure right conferred through military service obligations of tenants (see Definitions and Scot's words). Wardpark near Lochridge is spelt Wairdpark in Pont's map of 1604.\n\nCankerton or Cankerton Hollow is rarely indicated by name; it was the home of James Orr, farmer who died on 6 April 1859 aged 43 (born 31 May 1845). His wife Mary King Brown had died on 12 July 1845 aged just 25 (born 20 September 1820). Another John Orr farmed here with his spouse Janet Wilson. He died on 21 January 1847, aged 68, and she died on 16 October 1889, aged 79, having moved into High Chapeltoun to live with her brothers. Husband & spouse were buried at the Laigh Kirk, Stewarton. Cankerton, originally Cankerton was also found locally as a surname, but the etymology is unclear, a 'canker' usually meaning a 'blight, a fungal disease' of trees or cereals. A Cankerton Estate is listed under a survey of coal deposits.\nHigh Chapelton is first marked on the 1829 and the 1858 maps, together with a limekiln and a ford over the Annick. An old track is seen running from the farm to the field containing the 'grain barn' near Laigh Castleton; ploughing in this field has not turned up any stones, building or otherwise therefore suggesting a building constructed from wood. James Wilson and his spouse Mary Steven farmed at High Chapeltoun in 1760, when she died, aged 56. They were buried at the Laigh Kirk in Stewarton. Mary Reid of High Chapelton and Stacklawhill was born here on 20 January 1827, daughter of Thomas Reid of Stacklawhill. His wife was Mary Wilson of High Chapelton. The memorial stone is in the Stewarton cemetery. The rental value in around 1820 was £137.\n\nThe 1858 OS shows two buildings on the site, very close to each other but not physically connected. One building probably being the old Laigh Chapelton Farm and the other, on the right, being the residence built for James McAlister. The photograph (Davis 1991) seems to be of the side of the house facing onto the road and the Chapel Hill. The 1851 OS shows formal gardens with a boundary wall, paths and a central feature, possibly a pond. The 1897 OS shows one large building with wings and extensions which appear to be porches and possibly a conservatory. By this date the formal gardens are absent, as in the 1911 OS. The ha-ha is not shown in the large scale map of 1897 OS, but appears to be present in the 1858 and the 1911 editions. No footbridge can be made out, however the OS maps have a number of errors and omissions, especially the exact outlines of buildings which are often only 'approximations'. Between 1858 and 1897 a main driveway has been constructed into the grounds from nearly opposite the Chapel Hill and a formal path with steps leads from the position of today's main entrance down to Chapelton House.\n\nThe Chapelton (old) House was demolished in around 1908, possibly following a fire as this is the strong local tradition for the demise of the house. A Miss Mary McAllister may have been the last occupant of the house. Some of the dressed stonework may have been used in the building of the new house, garden and drive walls, the sides of the Chapel burn and elsewhere. The walling around the field side of the Chapel Hill mound is not entirely built with stones from Chapelton (old) House as some old building rubble was brought in from elsewhere at a much later date by the owner of Chapeltoun Mains, Mr. A. Robinson.\n\nThe gate to the field below the mound has three sandstone gateposts laid horizontally, two of them are exceptionally large and could be the ornamented gateposts from the old entrance and driveway to Chapelton (old) House. The actual drive is now represented by the curling pond behind the walled up entrance and the OS maps show an entrance here until at least 1911. Chapeltoun Mains has only one gatepost and both High Chapeltoun and Chapelhill house have none. These changes probably reflect the requirement to have access for large modern farm machinery. The gateposts are machine cut sandstone and the same design is found elsewhere, such as at the Kennox lodge, Cankerton and opposite Peacockbank Farm (previously Pearce Bank) near Stewarton, near the original entrance road to Lochridge. In 1775 Armstrong's map shows the road going no further than Lochridge (formerly Lochrig). A wind-pump is shown situated above Chapeltoun House on the 1923 OS map.\n\nDuring demolition it was noted that the stonework in the lower story of Chapelton (old) House was noticeably older than the upper story as would be expected if Laigh Chapelton had developed into Chapelton when it acquired an owner with greater financial means, Mr. James McAlister (or MacAlester), who added first a new 'mansion house', later an upper story to the old farm, developed the ornamental gardens and probably built the bridge over the river with the associated 'ha-ha' (see the section on the estate gardens and landscape).\n\nMichael Davis records that Hugh Neilson, the owner of 'Summerlee Iron Company' had the present mansion house designed in 1908 by Alexander Cullen, an architect from Hamilton. Harling is used extensively on the walls and this was originally left in an unpainted, artistic, grey state. The family moved into the house in 1910, however The gate-lodge was not built until around 1918, having been designed by Cullen, Lochhead and Brown. R.W.Schultz had proposed a terraced garden in 1911, but it is not known to what extent the existing terraces reflect this design. The pillars at the base of the main flight of steps incorporate old ornamental worked sandstone, presumably from the Chapelton (old) House. A separate conservatory building existed in front of the house at one time according to the Kilmarnock Glenfiled Ramblers. The name 'Chapeltoun', with the extra letter 'u' was presumably adopted for the new mansion house.\n\nA small iron cannon dated 1840 once stood in front of the house having been built by Mr Neilson at his Oak Bank Foundry.\n\nHugh Neilson was a keen player of the bagpipes and the music could be heard at many of the surrounding farms, drifting up from the estate gardens. He was also very fond of curling and as soon as the weather was cold enough he would invite all the locals down for a match and a dram at his curling pond (Hastings 1995). It is believed to have been restored when the house was a hotel, using concrete and tarmac.\n\nThe Chapeltoun Estate was never very large, incorporating Chapeltoun Mains, High Chapeltoun, the home farm (now Chapelhill House), Chapelburn Cottage, Mosshead of Chapelton Farm, Bogside cottage and Bogflat. Cankerton (Cankertonhole) and Bloomridge (Bloomrig) were part of the Kennox Estate. Between 1924 and 1960 the Neilsons owned Linn House in Dalry.\n\nBogside cottage was lived in by Mr. Troop and his family and later on by a Mr. McGaw who worked at Chapeltoun Mains. He was the Chapeltoun House gardener. Mr. Thow (pronounced Thor) a forester, lived with his family at the Bogflat Farmhouse. A chauffeur, a Mr. McLean lived at Chapelburn cottage and Firbank existed as a small copse with a possible (unrecorded) standing stone, the bungalow was built in the 1970s.\n\nAn incident remembered by Mrs. Wilson is that of Mr. Neilson challenging a young man from Kilmaurs to a fist fight because he had found that the man was courting one of his housemaids.\n\nThe 'mansion' house of 1910 has had a number of changes of use after it was a private house, being the headquarters of an insurance company and a hotel under several different owners, before becoming a family home again around 2004. The Lobnitz family of Chapeltoun House moved to High Clunch. The Third Statistical Account of 1953 still records Chapeltoun as being one of the six main estates in the parish of Stewarton.\n\nA finial from Chapelton House or possibly a 'wheat sheaf' from the old Monks' Well is used as a feature in the gardens. Apart from pure ornamentation the finial can also function as a lightning rod, and was once believed to act as a deterrent to witches on broomsticks attempting to land on one's roof. On making her final landing approach to a roof, the witch, spotting the obstructing finial, was forced to sheer off and land elsewhere. An old lintel from a door is recorded in 1939 as being built into a wall in the garden with the inscription 'S.M. 1740', possibly standing for one of the 'Miller' family'.\n\nIn the woodland policies of Chapeltoun House is the Monks' Well (OS 1974), fountain or spring as indicated on the OS maps going back as far as 1858. Its present appearance is probably as a Victorian or Edwardian 'whimsy' or 'folly' with a large, thick sandstone 'tombstone appearance' with a slightly damaged cross carved in relief upon it and a spout through which the spring water once passed into a cast iron 'bowl'. The Kilmarnock Glenfield Rambler's visited Chapeltoun in 1939 and recorded that a gargoyle had once been present as a spout and that the 'cross' was actually a 'wheat sheaf' that had stood on top of the stone.\n\nIt seems unlikely from the workmanship that the well's stone and 'cross' have anything to do with the old chapel, but one possibility is that it came from over the entrance door to Laigh Chapelton as the custom was for a Templar property to have the 'cross' symbol of the order displayed in such a fashion. On the other hand it could have been made for the Chapelton (old) House to associate the building with the Christian history of the site. The stone is unusually thick and has been clearly reworked to pass a spout through it.\n\nThe OS record that in the 1970s a Mr. H.Gollan of Chapeltown stated that the 'Monk's Well', was believed to have been associated with the chapel. In July 1956 the OS state that the 'Monk's Well' is a spring emerging through a stone pipe, situated in a stone-faced cutting in the hill slope. Above the spring is a stone slab with a cross in relief.\n\nA well is marked near the Chapelton (old) House which became a pump later and may now be represented by a surviving stone lined well with steps leading down to it. The water from this well was used to fill the Curling Pond which was built by the Neilsen's on the site of the original driveway into the old house/farm. It is said that the curling pond was constructed on the site of the old stables.\n\nAt the top edge of riverside meadow are to be found a couple of sizeable glacial erratics, which were dug out during the construction of the sewerage treatment plant. The remains of the abutments of a footbridge across the river are visible where the garden boundary hedge meets the Annick and Florence Miller remembers the bridge as still standing in the late 1920s. This presumably Victorian or Edwardian feature would take people across to the area delineated by a small ha-ha, now thick with rhododendrons (R.ponticum), typically planted by estate owners.\n\nOn the Lambroughton side of the river is a substantial wall with a wide ditch in front, built with considerable labour and of no drainage function. This structure was probably a ha-ha (sometimes spelt har har) or sunken fence which is a type of boundary to a garden, pleasure-ground, or park so designed as not to interrupt the view and to not be seen until closely approached. The ha-ha consists of a trench, the inner side of which is perpendicular and faced with stone, with the outer slope face sloped and turfed – making it in effect a sunken fence. The ha-ha is a feature in many landscape gardens laid and was an essential component of the \"swept\" views of Lancelot Capability Brown. \"The contiguous ground of the park without the sunk fence was to be harmonized with the land within; and the garden in its turn was to be set free from its prim regularity, that it might assort with the wilder country without\". Most typically they are found in the grounds of grand country houses and estates and acted as a means of keeping the cattle and sheep out of the formal gardens, without the need for obtrusive fencing. They vary in depth from about 5 feet (Chapeltoun House) to 9 feet (Petworth).\n\nThe old driveway to Lainshaw House off the Stewarton to Torranyard road also has a ha-ha on the side facing the home farm before it reaches the woods. The name ha-ha may be derived from the response of ordinary folk on encountering them and that they were, \"...then deemed so astonishing, that the common people called them Ha! Ha's! to express their surprise at finding a sudden and unperceived check to their walk.\" An alternative theory is that it describes the laughter of those who see a walker fall down the unexpected hole. A seat may have been situated by the ha-ha and the woodland view would have been, and indeed still is, very attractive as this area is clearly an ancient woodland remnant. The stone boundary wall stops in line with the ha-ha.\n\nThe Chapeltoun Bridge over the Annick and is a carefully designed sandstone structure complementing the scene. 'Stepping stones' are marked on the 1897 OS map as being located just downstream from here. The name Annick, previously Annock, Annoch (1791) or Annack Water, possibly derives from the Gaelic \"abhuin\", meaning water and \"oc\" or \"aig\" meaning little or small. The valley which this river runs through was once called \"Strathannock\". Immense labour has been expended building walls on either side of the river and even the Chapel Burn bed is 'cobbled'.\n\n'Fossilised' linear bands of stone deposition in gardens which were part of this 'boundary' field suggest that the old Rig and furrow system was used hereabouts, however extensive modern ploughing has hidden the 'tell tale' signs. The amount of stone clearance in the 'Lambroughton Woods' bearing plough scoring, illustrates the extent of the ploughing. Other fields in the area still show these unmistakable signs of cultivation and place names such as Lochrig (now Lochridge) and Righead Smithy preserve the history of the practice.\n\nThe area of 'wild-wood' beyond the ha-ha, with its 'sheets of bluebells', the wood rushes, wood sorrel, dog's mercury, snowdrops, celandine, broad buckler, lady and male-shield ferns, helleborine orchids and other species typical of long established woodlands, abruptly ends at the 'march' (estate boundary) indicated by a large earth bund and a coppiced boundary beech. The 1858 OS shows the wood as confined to the area of the ha-ha, however by 1897 the OS shows woodland as far up as the march. The Lambroughton woods beyond (until recently the property of the Montgomery / Southannan Estate) are not shown on the older maps including the 1911 OS, they are shown in the 1960 OS map as a pine plantations amongst what was scrub or partial woodland cover containing elder, gean, ash, etc. Before this time the area above the river was not even fenced off at the top where it becomes 'level' with the field.\n\nAlthough giant hogweed is taking hold along the Annick (2006), however the riparian (water side) flora is still indicative of long established and undisturbed habitats. The rare crosswort, (a relative of the goosegrass or cleavers) is found nearby. The river contains, amongst others, brown trout, sea trout, salmon, eels, minnows, and stickleback. The water quality is much improved since the Stewarton cloth mills closed and the river no longer carries their dyes and other pollutants as shown by the presence of freshwater limpets and shrimps, together with leeches, caddis fly larvae and water snail species.\n\nKingfishers have been seen just downstream and the estate's woodland policies and river contain, amongst others, tawny and barn owls, herons, mallard, ravens, rooks, treecreepers, buzzards, peewits or lapwings, roe deer, mink, moles, shrews, grey squirrels, hares, hedgehogs, foxes, badgers, pipistrelle bats and probably otters. Migrating Canada and greylag geese frequent the nearby fields on their way up from the Caerlaverock or coming down from Spitzbergen in the winter. Duncan McNaught in 1895 records that he found a kingfisher's nest at an arms length inside an earthen burrow at Chapelton on the Annick.\n\nThe estate woodlands contains typical species, such as copper beech, horse-chestnut, yew, bay-laurel, oaks, ornamental pines, and a fine walnut. Several very large beeches and sycamores are also present. The \"Glenfield Ramblers\" recorded two especially rare species in the area of the Lainshaw Estate, the lesser wintergreen and the bird's nest orchid. Unfortunately no precise details of the site were recorded.\n\nThe hedgerow trees accepted today as part of the familiar landscape were not planted by farmers for visual effect, they were crops and the wood was used for building and fencing and the millers needed beech or hornbeam wood for mill machinery, in particular for the sacrificial cogs on the main drive gears. It is not generally appreciated how much the Ayrshire landscape has changed its character, for even in 1760–70 the \"Statistical Account\" it is stated that \"there was no such thing to be seen as trees or hedges in the parish; all was naked and open\".\n\nThe Glazert burn, previously Glazart or Glassert has otters and the rare freshwater mussel (source of freshwater pearls). The name may come from the celtic, \"glas\" in Gaelic meaning grey or green and \"dur\" meaning water. It is recorded by Dobie in 1876 as being a favourite resort of fishermen and this is still very much the case today (2006). Another River Glazert, runs through a considerable part of the parish of Campsie, emptying itself into the Kelvin, opposite the town of Kirkintilloch.\n\nA number of small woodlands are marked as 'fox coverts', such as below Chapeltoun Mains and near Anderson's Plantation, left for foxes to breed and shelter in safety. The local Eglinton hunt used to meet at Chapeltoun House.\n\nWheeled vehicles were unknown to farmers in the area until the end of the 17th century and prior to this sledges were used to haul loads as wheeled vehicles were useless. Roads were mere tracks and such bridges as there were could only take pedestrians, men on horseback or pack-animals. The first wheeled vehicles to be used in Ayrshire were carts offered gratis to labourers working on Riccarton Bridge in 1726. In 1763 it was still said that no roads existed between Glasgow and Kilmarnock or Kilmarnock and Ayr and the whole traffic was by twelve pack horses, the first of which had a bell around its neck. A mill-wand was the rounded piece of wood acting as an axle with which several people would role a millstone form the quarry to the mill and to permit this the width of some early roads was set at a 'mill-wand breadth'.\n\nThe Stewarton to Torranyard (Torrenzairds in 1613) road was a turnpike as witnessed by the farm name Crossgates (Stewarton 3 and Irvine 5 miles), Gateside (near Stacklawhill Farm) and the check bars that are shown on the 1858 OS at Crossgates and at the Bickethall (previously Bihetland) road end to prevent vehicles, horse riders, etc. turning off the turnpike and avoiding the toll charges. A small toll house is shown at Crossgates, now demolished, on the left when facing Torranyard. In Scots a 'bicket' is a 'pocket', an appropriate description of the area the farm lies in. A modern cottage nearby is called 'Robelle' after the farmers Robert and Isabelle from Bickethall.\nThe name 'Turnpike' originated from the original 'gate' used being just a simple wooden bar attached at one end to a hinge on the supporting post. The hinge allowed it to 'open' or 'turn' This bar looked like the 'pike' used as a weapon in the army at that time and therefore we get 'turnpike'. The term was also used by the military for barriers set up on roads specifically to prevent the passage of horses. Other than providing better roads, the turnpikes settled the confusion of the different lengths given to miles, which had varied from 4,854 to nearly . Long miles, short miles, Scotch or Scot's miles (5,928 ft), Irish miles (6,720 ft), etc. all existed. Another point is that when the toll roads were constructed the Turnpike trusts went to considerable trouble to improve the route of the new roads and these changes could be quite considerable. The tolls on roads were abolished in 1878 to be replaced by a road assessment, which was taken over by the County Council in 1889.\n\nColonel McAlester was a member of the Turnpike Trust and no doubt exerted considerable influence over the route of the turnpike and other matters. John Loudon McAdam was very actively involved with Scottish Turnpikes, living at Sauchrie near Ayr until he moved to Bristol to become Surveyor to the local Turnpike Trust in 1826.\n\nNone of the toll road milestones are visible because they were buried during the Second World War to prevent them from being used by invading troops, agents, etc. This seems to have happened all over Scotland, however Fife was more fortunate than Ayrshire, for the stones were taken into storage and put back in place after the war had finished. The milestone near Bloomridge Farm and Kirkmuir Farm are likewise missing, presumed buried.\n\nClose to Kirkmuir (previously Laigh Kirkmuir), a farm occupied by William Mure in 1692, is the Freezeland plantation (previously Fold Park) on the turnpike as marked on the 1858 OS. Nowadays it is a smallholding without a dwelling house. The origin of the name is unclear, although 'furz' or furs' is old Scots for gorse or whin, however the existence of this small patch of fenced off land may be linked to the reference in Thomson's 1832 map to a fold, either for sheep or cattle. In 1799 the surrounding field is known as Fold Park. It could have been a pen for strayed stock or be connected with the tolls on the turnpike in some way or a 'stell', the Scot's word for a partial enclosure made by a wall or trees, to serve as a shelter for sheep or cattle. A building may have existed here. Kirkmuir was farmed by John Brown (died 21 August 1880, aged 54) and his wife Catherine Anderson (died 27 August 1895, aged 72). James Walker (died 11 December 1926, aged 86) and his wife Mary Woodburn (died 27 April 1899, aged 57) also farmed Kirkmuir. They were all buried in the Laigh Kirk graveyard.\n\nThe field between Kirkmuir & Righead was known as Lady Moss Meadow. Righead was a tollhouse at a later stage, however it was built as a 'butt and ben'. Skirmshaw is the name of some fields nearby in 1797, although no building appears to be present at that time. Picken's (formerly Padzean) Park was across the road from Righead, behind the estate tree boundary. Picken (Padzean) is a fairly common local name (see Kirkhill). Millstone Flat Park is the field above the chalybeate spring on its side of the Ha Ha.through Lady Moss Meadow Kirkmuir was originally a farm on the Longridge Plantation near Highcross Farm (Thomson 1832), later becoming Little Kirkmuir and being marked but not named by 1895, before ceasing to be recorded at all on the OS maps by 1921.\nA 'Kirkhill' dwelling is last marked on the 1858 and 1895 0S, below Kirkhill and near to South Kilbride. Andrew Picken was the farmer here in 1867, when his spouse, Ann Blair died, aged 59; she was buried at the Laigh Kirk in Stewarton. It was close to a small burn running from Water Plantation, above Stewarton, in a sheltered glen, typical of early religious settlements and the Kirkhill itself, which was wooded in 1858, is an excellent viewpoint. A track led up to it from Gillmill Farm and it had an entrance near that of South Kilbride. Robert Stevenson farmed at Gillmill and died on 27 May 1810, aged 48.\nThe plethora of religious names in this area – the Kirkmuirs, Kirkhill, Lady Moss, High Cross, Canaan and the Kilbrides, suggest that at some point in the distant past a pre-Christian and Christian site was located here. No documentary evidence appears to survive and the earliest record is for Kirkry in 1654, now Kilbride. Bride, Brigit or St. Brigid was originally a Celtic Goddess linked with the festival of Imbolc, the eve of the first of February. She was the goddess of spring and was associated with healing and sacred wells. The Carlin Stone at Commoncrags in Dunlop is associated with the 'old winter hag', the antithesis of the goddess Bride. The name Canaan at Kirkmuir was in use as early as 1779. In 1922 James Martin and Mary Gilmour purchased Gillmill and Canaan from the Cunninghames of Lainshaw.\n\nHigh Cross was occupied by the Harvies in 1951, who had purchased the farm from the Nairnshaw Estate in 1921. According to Strawhorn they had reconditioned the old thatched farmhouse in 1915 and added a gravitation water supply, bathroom, telephone and electricity. The farm buildings are now (2006) abandoned and the site awaits a new use.\n\nPaterson (1866) states that there is a mineral spring near Stewarton, called the \"Bloak Well\". Robinson gives the Scot's word 'blout' as meaning the 'eruption of fluid' or a place that is soft or wet. Both meanings would fit in this context. Blout and Bloak are very similar words, with a Bloak Moss not very far away at Auchentiber.\nA well recorded as Bloak Well was first discovered in 1800, around 1826 (Paterson 1866) or 1810 or 1800, by the fact that pigeons from Lainshaw House and the neighbouring parishes were found to flock here to drink. Mr. Cunningham of Lainshaw built a handsome house over the well in 1833 and appointed a keeper to take care of it as the mineral water was of some value owing to healing properties attributed to it. The well was located in the middle of the kitchen.\n\nThe Chapel Burn rises near the Anderson Plantation in the fields below Lainshaw Mains and it is marked as a chalybeate or mineral spring on the 1911 6\" OS map. Bore holes nearby suggest that the water was put to a more formal use at one time, supplying cattle troughs or possibly even for a stand pipe as mineral water was popular for its supposed curative properties. According to the opinion of the day, it could cure 'the colic, the melancholy, and the vapours; it made the lean fat, the fat lean; it killed flat worms in the belly, loosened the clammy humours of the body, and dried the over-moist brain. The main spring here has been covered over and the water piped out to the burn.\n\nThe chalybeate spring (otherwise known as Siderite, a mineral consisting of iron(II) carbonate, FeCO3 – 48 percent iron) described here is not the only well / spring in the area which is identified as being a mineral spring, for there is still a cottage named Saltwell in what was the hamlet of Bloak. This information is stated by the Topographical Dictionary of Scotland, however Mrs. Florence Miller of Saltwell recollects that this well was never known specifically as the Bloak Well. The present building was purchased from the Cunninghames of Lainshaw in the 1920s, having been built between 1800 and 1850. It is thought that the salt well now lies beneath the floor of the building and various physical features of the building suggest that it is the structure built by the Cunninghames. The well was first discovered by the fact that migrating birds, especially swifts and swallows, flocked to it. It is of unknown composition and is not listed as chalybeate. The cottage was a 'but and ben' and it is a 'handsome' building as described by Paterson. A Redwells Farm is located nearby at Auchentiber, the etymology of \"tiber\" itself refers to a well.\n\nIn 1930 the \"Kilmarnock Glenfield Ramblers' Society\" record a \"Ramble\" during which they walked past the well known local spring, its waters rich in iron, on their way to the Kennox Estate, having already visited the Lainshaw Estate. This must be the source of the Chapel Burn.\nThe Chapeltoun march is a significant historic survival in an Ayrshire context and in addition we have some information about its construction. Defence for James Wilson Sued by John Miller 7th. August 1820. Manuscript and personal communications. We are told in 1820 that \"the march dyke was \"built some many years ago when such boundaries were quite a new thing and thought by some to be rather an incovenience\". Ditchers were employed to build it and thorns and trees were purchased to plant on it. The word fence is used as well as dyke in regards of the construction method. Part of the march dyke is still clearly indicated by a large coppiced beech and we know that this coppicing or pollarding was done because such 'marker' trees will live considerably longer than trees which have been left untouched.\nJames Wilson of High Chapelton and John Miller of Laigh Chapelton went to court over the matter of the march dyke built between their lands by the father of James. The document makes it clear that such inclosures were unusual at the time and although John's father very reluctantly agreed to the march dyke being built with a straightening of the old boundary, he did not pay anything towards its construction or for its maintenance, despite the march being of a level of construction which required skilled ditchers to be employed for the task.\n\nThe ill-feeling seems to have spread into the next generation for James records that John has cut 'march' trees down in the past and has thrown thorns and brambles from the march into the High Chapeltoun's hayfields. The irony is that John of Laigh Chapelton is suing James for cutting down trees from the march dyke and requires money to plant new trees and to compensate for the inconvenience he has been put through. We do not know the outcome, however the action is described as \"trifling and frivolous\". The clue to the ill-feeling may be in the term 'straightening' which may imply that John's father agreed to a new march which may have resulted in some small loss of his lands.\n\nThe rental value of High Chapelton was £137 in 1820 and Laigh Chapelton was £180. The memorial stone to the Miller family of Chapelton (Chapelton is the spelling on the tombstone) is very well preserved at the Laigh Kirk, Stewarton. John Miller died on 3 December 1734, aged 30, and his spouse, Jean Gilmour died on 24 November 1747, aged 42. Their son James died on 1 November 1793, aged 60, and his spouse, Margaret Gilmour, died on 1 April 1802, aged 61. Their son John is the one involved in the dispute; he died on 25 December 1825, aged 59. His spouse was Grizel Gray, who died on 7 January 1855.\n\nThe march dyke is clearly marked on the 1885 OS map, following the course of the bank above the water meadow from the riverside and then running up as a 'v' shape towards High Chapeltoun before coming back down to join the lane near the Chapel mound. It doesn't follow the line of the natural ridge above the waterside meadow.\n\nAiton in 1811 mentions \"a curious notion that has long prevailed in the County of Ayr, and elsewhere, that the wool of sheep was pernicious to the growth of thorns\" (hawthorn or whitethorn and blackthorn or sloe).\n\nCrivoch or Crevoch (also Crevock in 1821) mill, part of which was recently (2005) rebuilt as Angel Cottage, a family home, was the site of a Mill and associated miller's dwelling, byre, etc. as far back as 1678. 'Cruive' is Scots for a pen for livestock. \nThe old cornmill was part of the Barony of Crevoch and lay in the portion which was called Crivoch-Lindsay. In 1608 Archibald Lindsay was heir to Andrew Lindsay the owner, however by 1617 the lands were in the hands of James Dunlop, whose father was James Dunlop of that Ilk.\nIn January 1678 Robert Cunynghame, apothecary / druggist in Edinburgh, is stated to be the heir to Anne, daughter of Sir Robert Cunynghame of Auchenharvie. She was his cousin-german and part of the inheritance was the 5 merk land of Fairlie-Crivoch and the mill. He also owned some of the lands of Lambroughton and Auchenharvie near Cunninghamhead / Perceton. A Robert and Jonet Galt are recorded as living at Crivoch in around 1668. In 1742 William Millar, Baillie, was 'Milner in Crivoch Miln'.\n\nThe mother of the late Mrs. Minnie Hastings of West Lambroughton Farm had been one of the last occupants of the house at the Crevoch Mill site. The family name was Kerr. A track led from Crivoch up to Bottoms farm and this gave access through to Chapeltoun. The full name of Bottoms farm is \"Bottoms at Point Crivoch\". The dusky cranesbill, a rare garden escape, was recorded by the Glenfield Ramblers' at Crivoch mill in the 1850s and was still growing at the site in 2004.\n\nIn 1735 John Cummin, a schoolmaster, is recorded as living at Crivoch.\n\nAt Gallowayford near Kennox is the site of the discovery in 1850 of stone-lined graves about square, in a group of tumuli, in which were found two urns containing flint arrowheads and some 'Druid's glass' beads. Charles McAlister Esq. of Kennox House, the laird, had ordered these graves to be opened and examined. The flints and the eleven beads (probably made of amber) have been lost after having been taken into the keeping of the laird. They had at least been photographed and sketched by a visitor in the 1920s. The urns were also feared lost; however, it was found that they had been recorded under Loup and not Kennox (as the owner was Laird of both places) in the record of the National Museum of Antiquities of Scotland. In 1949 they had been purchased from the estate. This find is one of the very few where two urns were found in the same cist, and the assemblage of grave goods is unusual. Gallowayford Farm is no longer in existence; however, the remains of the dam or weir in the Glazert nearby can be clearly seen. Robertson (1820) regards this as being a valuable property, the proprietor being James Millar, with a valued rent of £21. \n\nClose to the cists site is the Mound Wood on Kennox Moss, an oval shaped artificial structure made of piled turf and surrounded by a well constructed drystone wall. It has not been investigated archaeologically. An access track ran up to it at one time and Roy's map of 1747 indicates that a dwelling known as Water House existed in this vicinity at that time.\n\nThe Gallowayford Farmhouse is now (2006) just a jumble of stones, however John Shields and his spouse Jean Guthrie farmed here in the mid-19th century, Jean dying on 4 October 1887 and John on 22 September 1908; they lost a daughter, Isabella at the age of 4 in 1862. James Miller farmed here previously, dying on 3 April 1813. They are all buried at the Laigh Kirk in Stewarton. General Roy's map of 1747–55 clearly shows Gallowayford and Irvinhill.\n\nBonshaw (formerly Bollingshaw or Bonstonshaw) was a small estate and barony of the Boyd's, a cadet of the Boyds, Lords of Kilmarnock.\n\nNear Stacklawhill is the site of the discovery of celts (axe heads) and earthenware in 1875. John Craufurd Taylor is recorded as living at Stackly hill in 1735. Mr Muir of Bonnyton farm was the great-grandson of Mr Thomas Reid of Stacklawhill farm who had owned the Bonnyton estate in 1827. The properties of Mossend Huist and Bogue were incorporated within Stacklawhill.\n\nBankend Farm near the Annick is marked on the 1775 Armstrong's map, however it shown as a ruin as far back as 1858. Its name was transferred to the farm of Sandilands sometime after 1923 and the name Sandielands (1820), Sandilands or Sandylands dropped, 'apart' from the cottage nearby which uses the name Sandbank. Nothing of old Bankend remains on the site, the rubble now being located on the riverbank. A Hugh Watt lived here in the 18th century. The Sandilands family, with the title Lord Torphichen, held the temple-lands and this would have included \"the chapel lands and glebe of Fairlie-Crivoch.\" The soil in these parts is not sandy and the land ownership may very well be the explanation for the origin of the placename given the connection between the Sandylands or Sandilands family and the former Knights Templar estates. The Lainshaw Estate plan of 1779–91 by William Crawford for William Cunningham Esq. names the area as Sandylands and marks a steading called Sandiriggs. The farms of Bankend and Sandylands became combined as the property of Sandilands.\n\nA ford crossed the river at this point, the road then running up the hill to West Lambroughton. This was an important crossing as no bridge, road or ford existed at Chapeltoun until possibly the time of the building of Chapelton House in the 1850s.\n\nGiven as 'Klonbyith' by Pont in the 1690s Clonbeith was then the property of William Cuninghame, Scion of this cadet branch of the Glencairn Cuninghames through those of Aiket Castle. John Cuninghame shot and killed the Earl of Eglinton in 1586 and was caught and 'cut to pieces' in Hamilton, possibly at Hamilton palace.\n\nThe Cowlinn burn runs down to join the Lugton Water at the site of Montgreenan castle or the Bishop's Palace. A dwelling called Cowlinn is marked on the Thomson's 1820 map and a Clonbeith Mill was nearby.\n\nLimekilns are a common feature of the area and limestone was quarried in a number of places, such as at Stacklawhill. Limekilns seem to have come into regular use about the 18th century and were located at Stacklawhill, Haysmuir, Bonshaw, High Chapeltoun, Bloomridge (Blinridge in 1828), Gillmill, Sandylands (now Bank End) and Crossgates. Large limestone blocks were used for building but the smaller pieces were burnt, using coal dug in the parish to produce lime which was a useful commodity in various ways: it could be spread on the fields to reduce acidity, for lime-mortar in buildings or for lime-washing on farm buildings. It was regarded as cleansing agent. A number of small whinstone, sand and sandstone quarries were also present in the area and brick clay was excavated near Kirkmuir.\n\nAiton in 1811 comments on the growing of carrots by William Cunningham of Lainshaw as an 'excellent article of food for the human species'. This was one of the first estates to grow them in quantity.\n\nIn 1820 only six people were qualified to vote as freeholders in Stewarton Parish, being proprietors of Robertland (Hunter Blair), Kirkhill (Col. J. S. Barns), Kennox (McAlester), Lainshaw (Cunninghame), Lochridge (Stewart) and Corsehill (Montgomery Cunninghame).\n\nThe Gallery of Modern Art (GOMA) is a neo-classical building in Royal Exchange Square in the Glasgow city centre, which was built in 1778 as the townhouse of William Cunninghame of Lainshaw, a wealthy tobacco lord. The building has undergone a series of different uses; It was used by the Royal Bank of Scotland; it then became the Royal Exchange. Reconstruction for this use resulted in many additions to the building, namely the Corinthian pillars to the Queen Street facade, the cupola above and the large hall to the rear of the old house.\n\nShoes were only used for Sunday best and for many of the younger folk going bare foot was the order of the day. The family at High Chapeltoun were one of the last to do this on a day to day basis.\n\nThe Royal Mail re-organised its postal districts in the 1930s and at that point many hamlets and localities ceased to exist officially, such as Chapeltoun, Lambroughton and other areas in Stewarton district.\nJames Boswell of Auchinleck House, the famous biographer and friend of Dr. Samuel Johnson was married to his cousin Margaret Montgomerie in Lainshaw Castle. He had gone to Ireland with Margaret, with the intention of courting another wealthy cousin, however he fell in love with the penniless Margaret and married her instead. The room they were married in was one floor above the room in which the Earl of Eglinton was laid after he was murdered by Cunninghame at the old brig or ford on the Annick Water near the entrance to the castle on the Stewarton road. David Montgomery of Lainshaw married a daughter of Lord Auchinleck.\n\nJohn Kerr of Stewarton built the first practical beehive in the World in 1819, octagonal in shape with a bee-space and a queen separator introduced by 1849. The shape was thought to be closest to the natural tree-trunk shape which bees were thought to favour. L. L. Langstroth is often credited with these developments, however an examination of the records shows that John Kerr, a cabinet maker, was the first to use these features in a working hive. Beeboles and straw skeps were used previous to these developments and here the bees had to be killed to obtain the honey.\nRunning from Anderson's Plantation across the hill and back down to the old driveway near to the walled garden is a wall or dyke replacing a tree lined hedge shown in 1858. The wall or dyke is very unusual in that it is made from roughly equal sized rounded whinstones and it is held together by cement. A great deal of expense and effort would have been needed to build this long section of dyke, which seems to have been in place by 1911.\n\nThe estate wall running from near Freezeland to near the Law Mount was built by unemployed labourers in the early 19th century.\n\nRudolf Hess's Messerschmitt Bf 110 was spotted by locals as he flew on his mission from Nazi Germany to meet with the Duke of Hamilton in 1941. He crashed in Eaglesham on Floors Farm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21723090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21723090", "title": "Communes of Ivory Coast", "text": "Communes of Ivory Coast\n\nThe communes of Ivory Coast are a fifth-level administrative unit of administration in Ivory Coast. The sub-prefectures of Ivory Coast contain villages, and in select instances more than one village is combined into a commune. There are currently 197 communes in the 510 sub-prefectures.\n\nPrior to 2011, communes were the third-level administrative units of the country. Under the administration of Laurent Gbagbo, the number of communes grew to more than 1300. In 2011, a reorganisation of the country's subdivisions was undertaken, with a goal of decentralising the state. As part of the reorganisation, communes were converted from third-level divisions into fifth-level divisions.\n\nIn March 2012, the government abolished 1126 communes on the grounds that under the new jurisdiction of districts, regions, departments, and sub-prefectures, these particular communes were not viable governmental units economically. As a result of the reorganisation, there are now 197 communes in Ivory Coast. In many parts of the country, responsibilities previously carried out by the communes have been transferred to other levels of government. In most cases, the town that is the seat of the commune is also the seat of a sub-prefecture.\n\n\nThe following laws and decrees created communes in Ivory Coast. Many of the communes created by these laws were abolished in the decree of March 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31568949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31568949", "title": "Cooperation Sea", "text": "Cooperation Sea\n\nCooperation Sea, also called Commonwealth Sea (erratum) or Sodruzhestvo Sea, is a proposed sea name for part of the Southern Ocean, between Enderby Land (the eastern limit of which is 59°34'E) and West Ice Shelf (85°E), off the coast of MacRobertson Land and Princess Elizabeth Land. It would stretch over an area of 258,000 km². It would be bordered by the Davis Sea on the east, and by another Russian proposal to the 2002 International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) draft, a Cosmonauts Sea to the west.\n\nThe Cooperation Sea was named in 1962 by the Soviet Antarctic Expedition in honor of international science cooperation in Antarctica. The name first appeared as a proposal to the IHO in the IHO 2002 draft. This draft was never approved by the IHO (or any other organization), and the 1953 IHO document (which does not contain the name) remains currently in force. Leading geographic authorities and atlases do not use the name, including the 2014 10th edition of the World Atlas from the United States' National Geographic Society and the 2014 12th edition of the British Times Atlas of the World. But Soviet and Russian-issued maps do.\n\nDavis Station is located on the coast near here.\n"}
{"id": "2963044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2963044", "title": "Copperbelt", "text": "Copperbelt\n\nThe Copperbelt is a natural region in Central Africa which sits on the border region between northern Zambia and the southern Democratic Republic of Congo. It is known for copper mining. \n\nTraditionally, the term \"Copperbelt\" includes the mining regions of Zambia's Copperbelt Province (notably the towns of Ndola, Kitwe, Chingola, Luanshya, and Mufulira in particular) and the Congo's Haut-Katanga Province (notably Lubumbashi, Kolwezi, and Likasi). In some contexts the term may exclude the Congo entirely.\n\nThe Western discovery of copper in Zambia is owed partly to the celebrated American scout Frederick Russell Burnham, who in 1895 led and oversaw the massive Northern Territories (BSA) Exploration Co. expedition which established that major copper deposits existed in Central Africa. Along the Kafue River in then Northern Rhodesia, Burnham saw many similarities to copper deposits he had worked in the United States, and he encountered natives wearing copper bracelets. In his report to the British South Africa Company Burnham had this to say about the region:\n\n\"About 200 miles north of the Falls on the Incalla river, and twelve miles from the Kafukwe (Ed: now known as the Kafue River) and still on the high plateau is probably one of the greatest copper fields on the continent. The natives have worked this ore for ages, as can be seen by their old dumps, and they work it to-day. The field is very extensive, and reaches away to Katanga... The natives inhabiting this part of the country are skilled workmen, and have traded their handiwork with all comers, even as far afield as the Portuguese of the West Coast and the Arabs of the East. These natives, being miners and workers of copper and iron, and being permanently located in the ground, would give the very element needed in developing these fields.\"\n\n\"The increasing use of copper bids fair to make it one of the most valuable products a country can have... The copper mines of Montana and Arizona have proven of more value than the gold mines, regardless of the fact that the copper had to be hauled two thousand miles by rail to the seaboard, and the coal and coke to smelt it hauled hundreds of miles to the mines. So far as natural difficulties are concerned, this northern field can be fed from the coal deposits of the valley of the Zambezi (Ed: Burnham had previously discovered the massive coal fields at Hwange), and the product shipped to the East Coast at a less expense than the product of Montana and Arizona can be laid on the dock at New York.\"\n\nMany years later, the British South Africa Company built towns along the river and a railroad to transport the copper through Mozambique.\n\nThe Copperbelt was inhabited by many prehistoric groups including the Chondwe Group whose pottery resembles that of Luangwa vessels found today in the Kalambo Falls region.\n\nDuring the 1950s, this was the largest copper producing area in the world, and included the Roan Antelope Mine, Nkana Mine, the Nchanga Mines, the Mufulira Mine, and the Rokana Mine. Chalcopyrite, bornite, and chalcocite are found in the metamorphosed calcareous shales and arkoses of the Lower Roan Formation in the Katanga System.\n\nFrom Doris Lessing's The Grass is Singing, \"He met a man from Northern Rhodesia, who told him about the copper mines and the wonderfully high salaries. They sounded fantastic to Tony, He took the next train to the copper belt...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28811038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28811038", "title": "Eine warme Kartoffel ist ein warmes Bett", "text": "Eine warme Kartoffel ist ein warmes Bett\n\nEine warme Kartoffel ist ein warmes Bett (\"A Warm Potato is a Warm Bed\") is a collection of essays by Nobel Prize-winning author Herta Müller, first published in 1992. The essays were previously published as columns in the monthly Swiss publication \"Du\" between 1990 and 1992.\n\nThe title comes from one of the cryptic phrases that Müller's mother used in discussing the gulags of the Socialist Republic of Romania. The title essay, written in 1991, was later expanded into a 304-page prose poem called \"Atemschaukel\" (\"The Hunger Angel\").\n"}
{"id": "25429578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25429578", "title": "Ethiopian xeric grasslands and shrublands", "text": "Ethiopian xeric grasslands and shrublands\n\nThe Ethiopian xeric grasslands and shrublands ecoregion is a semi-desert strip on or near the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden coasts in Eritrea, Ethiopia, Djibouti and Somalia. This ecoregion lies mainly between sea level and 800 meters (m) elevation. There are, however, many hills and massifs, which range up to 1300 m as well as outstanding fault-induced depressions, such as the Danakil, lying as low as 155 m below sea level. This region is extremely active tectonically, experiencing many earthquakes and intermittently active volcanoes. Rainfall is very low and yearly averages range from 100 to 200 millimeters (mm), with less rain falling closer to the coast. There are many species of interest, including the endemic Archer's lark (Heteromirafra archeri), a species of dragon tree (Dracaena ombet), and a large suite of desert ungulates, including the last viable population of African wild ass (Equus africanus somalicus).\n\nThis ecoregion extends inland from the Red Sea and the Gulf of Oman, including the Dahlak Archipelago and other islands, stretching from the Sudanese-Eritrean border, south through Ethiopia to Djibouti and eastwards into Somalia, in the Somaliland region of the country. While it mainly lies between sea level and 800 m, there are many arid hills and massifs up to 1300 m. Higher massifs such as the Goda and Mabla in Djibouti are considered to be outliers of the Ethiopian Montane Forest ecoregion. There are also fault-induced depressions, such as the Danakil Depression and Lac Assal, lying as much as 160 m below sea level. Elevation generally increases westward towards the Ethiopian and Eritrean highlands. The region is extremely active tectonically, and it experiences many earthquakes associated with the continuing enlargement of the Rift Valley. Volcanoes in the ecoregion are also intermittently active. Basement rocks are composed mainly of Tertiary lava flows, although there are also Quaternary basinal deposits at the northern end and pre-Cretaceous basinal deposits on the northern coast of Somalia. Soils developed over the lava deposits are mainly lithosols, while regosols are predominant on the Quaternary and pre-Cretaceous basinal deposits. There are very few permanent watercourses. The most notable is the Awash River of Ethiopia that terminates in a series of lakes near the border with Djibouti.\n\nThe climate is very hot and dry. Mean annual rainfall varies from less than 100 mm close to the coast to around 200 mm further inland. Mean minimum temperatures range from 21° to 24°C, and mean maximum temperature is around 30°C. Most of the people have to build their houses with clay to keep the hot outside and the cold outside.\n\nThe plant life of the region needs more study, which has been hampered by long-term political strife in the region. Endemic flora includes a dragon tree \"(Dracaena ombet)\". Due largely to political instability in the region over the last 30 years, many elements of the fauna and flora remain poorly known. As a suggestion of floral richness, an estimated 825 to 950 species have been observed in Djibouti, although many of these have been found only in the small outlying patches of the Ethiopian montane forest. These outliers are part of the Day Forests and Mabla Massifs above 1,100 m in Djibouti.\n\nMammals found here include the last Somali Wild Ass \"(Equus africanus somalicus)\" to be found in the wild, on the Buri Peninsula of Eritrea. Other grazing animals include Beira, Dorcas gazelle, Soemmerring's Gazelle, gerenuk and the Beisa oryx. The only purely endemic mammal is a gerbil \"Gerbillus acticola\". There are a number of dry habitat reptiles including the endemic geckos, Arnold's leaf-toed gecko \"(Hemidactylus arnoldi)\" and the Somali Northern Sand Gecko \"(Tropiocolotes tripolitanus somalicus)\". Birds include the endemic Archer's lark \"(Heteromirafra archeri)\".\n\nHuman population density is typically less than ten persons per square kilometer (km2). In some areas, there is less than one person per km2. The dominant ethnic groups are the nomadic pastoralist Afars and a Somali clan, the Issas. Human density, however, does not account for grazing animals. The conservation status of this ecoregion is not good, with few protected areas and lack of enforcement in existing ones. Habitats however have been degraded, mainly by grazing of livestock as well as cutting of trees for firewood and clearing of land for planting. The only protected area is the Mille-Serdo Wild Ass Reserve in Ethiopia although protection is planned for the Buri Peninsula and the Danakil Depression in Eritrea. Urban areas in the region include the ports of Massawa in Eritrea, Djibouti city, and Berbera in Somalia. Smaller towns include the former Afar Region capital of Asaita in Ethiopia and smaller ports along the coast such as Tadjoura in Djibouti and Zeila in Somalia. Tourism in the region includes diving in the Dahlak islands.\n"}
{"id": "2334488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2334488", "title": "Evergreen forest", "text": "Evergreen forest\n\nAn evergreen forest is a forest made up of evergreen trees. They occur across a wide range of climatic zones, and include trees such as conifers, live oak, and holly in cold climates, eucalypts, acacias and banksias in more temperate zones, and rainforest trees in tropical zones.\n\nConiferous temperate evergreen forests are most frequently dominated by species in the families Pinaceae and Cupressaceae. Broadleaf temperate evergreen forests include those in which Fagaceae, such as oaks, are common, those in which Nothofagaceae predominate, and the Eucalyptus forests of the Southern Hemisphere. There also are assorted temperate evergreen forests dominated by other families of trees, such as Lauraceae in Laurel Forest.\n\nTemperate evergreen forests, coniferous, broadleaf, and mixed, are found largely in the temperate mid-latitudes of North America, Siberia, Canada, Australia, Africa, Scandinavia, Himalayas and western ghats of India. Broadleaf evergreen forests occur in particular in southern China, southeastern Brazil, parts of southeastern North America and the Pacific Northwest, and in countries around the Mediterranean Basin, such as Lebanon and Morocco. Other examples include the wet temperate conifer forests of northwestern North America.\n\nTropical evergreen forests (or \"tropical rainforests\") are usually found in areas receiving more than 234 cm of rainfall and having a monthly mean temperature of 18 °C or higher in the coldest months. They occupy about seven percent of the Earth's surface and harbour more than half of the planet's terrestrial plants and animals. Tropical evergreen forests are dense, multi-layered, and harbour many types of plants and animals. These forests are found in the areas receiving heavy rainfall (more than 200  cm annual rainfall). They are very dense. Even the sunlight does not reach the ground. Numerous species of trees are found in these forests. Different types of trees shed their leaves at different times of the year. Therefore, these forests always appear green and are known as evergreen forests. These forests are found in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, along with the slopes of the Western Ghats and parts of Northeastern states of Assam, West Bengal and Odisha. These areas experience hot and humid climate with the short dry season. The important trees of these forests are rosewood, ebony and mahogany\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2505107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2505107", "title": "Fisher Bank", "text": "Fisher Bank\n\nThe Fisher Bank is a sand bank in the North Sea, off the west coast of Denmark. It consists of \"Great Fisher Bank\", and \"Little Fisher Bank\" (the latter closer to Danish coast). Some older charts refer to them as the \"Great Fishing Bank\" and the \"Little Fishing Bank\". As \"Fisher\" it gives its name to one of the sea areas in the British Shipping Forecast.\n\nSea area Fisher is defined by the co-ordinates:\n\nand the Danish coast.\n\nAs its name suggests, these large sandbanks provide rich fishing grounds, but overfishing has left them less productive than they were, and many Danish fishing vessels have moved elsewhere, into the North Sea or the Baltic.\n\nDogger Bank for map and links to similar places\n"}
{"id": "54133229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54133229", "title": "Forest of Bojcin", "text": "Forest of Bojcin\n\nForest of Bojčin is a swampy forest protected by the government of Serbia. It lies between the village of Progar (nearest), Boljevac and Ašanja, in the municipality of Surčin. It belongs to the region of Obedska bara. It lies in the plain region of southeastern Srem, the south-western edge of Belgrade, 30 kilometers from the center, and between the river Sava and Јarčina channel. The forest serves as a resort, with a number of content. Since 1965, it is a protected natural monument.\n\nDuring the First World War, residents and soldiers found shelter in the forest. King Alexander used it as a hunting ground (1934). During the Second World War, Forest of Bojčin was a very important political, military and economic center. In 1941, a partisan uprising was staged in the forest in Donji Srem. People from the surrounding villages also hid in the forest, fleeing from enemies - especially the Germans and the ustashas. In more than one base under the ground, which have been saved to date, many of the fighters from Central Serbia continued for east Bosnia during the remainder of the war, after crossing the Sava River and taking a short stop in order to recover and train, and then took part in heated battles against the enemy.\nA tarmac road leads to the partisan bases through the middle of the forest. At a distance of 2 km from the entrance to the forest, on the site where the partisan bases where Srem army hid in the dugouts and catacombs once stood, there is a memorial set up in 1963. The place is a bit neglected and left to oblivion. In the continuation, the following 3 km, there is a pond and mud, and it is quite difficult to get through.\nDue to its natural value, historical significance and monumental buildings with preserved properties, the Forest of Bojčin was protected as early as 1965 as a natural memorial monument.\n\n At the edge of the Forest of Bojčin, on the right side of the road for Progar, a monument in the form of a concrete pillar was erected on a pedestal of rough hewn stone of rectangular shape. On the right side of the pillar, a white marble plaque is built in with the text: \"In the year 1942 the first battle in the southeastern Srem between partisans and ustashas took place in this forest. July 4, 1960, Alliance fighters of the NLW\". Concrete memorial in the form of a rectangle is located in the Forest of Bojčin, 2 km from the forester's cottage, on the right side of the road for Ašanja. A white marble plaque is built in with the inscription: \"Since 1942 to liberation, this part of the forest served as a permanent bivouac of partisan staffs and units and at the same time as winter stores of partisan bases and observation posts of the border troops of the First Srem Detachment. July 4, 1963. Association of veterans.\"\n\nThe forest occupies an area of 629.51 ha. Red oak is particularly represented in its territory, as a fragment of the old, once enormous, lowland forest wetland. In the forest, there is a total of 185 recorded species, of which 15 have the status of protected and strictly protected species. One hundred and sixty-five (165) species of fungi grow in the forest, 15 of which with protection status, while two species are on the European Red List of mushrooms in Europe. Besides the oak, the forest is rich with hornbeam and linden, there are also poplar, dogwood, elderberry and wild rose. Wild garlic grows in one part of the forest, while in the spring there are a lot of wild strawberries, in swampy areas there is iris, and very frequently fennel.\nOne hundred and eight (108) species of birds were recorded in the forest, i.e. 30% of the total number of bird species recorded in Serbia. Also, there are 10 species of amphibians and reptiles, of which as many as 8 species is protected by law. When it comes to animals which roam freely through the forest, rabbits and elk can be seen. Swineherds keep their pigs in the forest, and wild pigs that feed on acorns can also be found. A large number of insects also lives there, of which the most notable are mosquitoes, horseflies and hornets.\nThe area is still relatively preserved, has great natural value, but it is in danger of further degradation due to its proximity to the urban zone, which is why it has been put under protection.\n\nAt the edge of the Forest of Bojčin, a summer theater was built in 2010, designed by architect Zdravko Milinković. The stage is covered with thick reeds, with a scenic diameter of 16 meters. Apart from the stage, there are two dressing rooms and a covered amphitheater auditorium for 1,000 visitors.\nDirectly behind the stage, an art colony was built in the same year, consisting of six wooden houses at a distance of about twenty meters. Each house has a room of 12 m, bathroom and a terrace of 10 m, and the space is air conditioned.\nNext to the stage, there is an ethno restaurant \"Bojčinska koleba\", a catering facility consisting of typical Srem houses for pigs, covered with reeds. Folds with mangalitsas are located in the vicinity of the restaurant.\n\n\nThere is a jogging trail 2 km long with 16 obstacles, carriage rides and horseback riding on Lipizzaner horses, organized by the equestrian club \"Bojčin\".\n\nOne can reach the edge of the Forest of Bojčin by a local bus, bus 605, which departs from Bežanija from Ledine, passes through Surčin, Јakovo and Boljevci before arriving in Progar. The same road can be taken by car from Belgrade, or from highway E70 by taking a detour at the airport in Surčin from the direction of Kupinovo and Ašanja or Bečmen and Petrovčić, and from Obrenovac, one can arrive across the Obrenovac-Surčin Bridge over the Sava River. In the summer season, it is possible to arrive via public transportation boat, which leaves from Block 45 and sails across Sava to Progar.\n\n"}
{"id": "11650157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11650157", "title": "GeoRef", "text": "GeoRef\n\nThe GeoRef database is a bibliographic database that indexes scientific literature in the geosciences, including geology. Coverage ranges from 1669 to the present for North American literature, and 1933 to the present for the rest of the world. It currently contains more than 2.8 million references. It is widely considered one of the preeminent literature databases for those studying the earth sciences.\n\nIt is produced by the American Geosciences Institute, which was known as the American Geological Institute until October 2011.\n\n\"To maintain the database, GeoRef editor/indexers regularly scan more than 3,500 journals in 40 languages as well as new books, maps, and reports. They record the bibliographic data for each document and assign index terms to describe it. Each month between 6,000 and 9,000 new references are added to the database.\"\n\nMajor areas of coverage by GeoRef include:\n\nPrint publications that correspond to GeoRef are Bibliography and Index of North American Geology; Bibliography of Theses in Geology; and the Geophysical Abstracts, Bibliography and Index of Geology Exclusive of North America.\n\n"}
{"id": "8023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8023", "title": "Geography of the Democratic Republic of the Congo", "text": "Geography of the Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nThe Democratic Republic of the Congo is by the Congo River Basin, which covers an area of almost . The country's only outlet to the Atlantic Ocean is a narrow strip of land on the north bank of the Congo River.\n\nThe vast, low-lying central area is a plateau-shaped basin sloping toward the west, covered by tropical rainforest and criss-crossed by rivers, a large area of this has been categorized by the World Wildlife Fund as the Central Congolian lowland forests ecoregion. The forest center is surrounded by mountainous terraces in the west, plateaus merging into savannahs in the south and southwest. \n\nDense grasslands extend beyond the Congo River in the north. High mountains of the Ruwenzori Range (some above ) are found on the eastern borders with Rwanda and Uganda (see Albertine Rift montane forests for a description of this area).\n\nThe Democratic Republic of the Congo lies on the Equator, with one-third of the country to the north and two-thirds to the south. The climate is hot and humid in the river basin and cool and dry in the southern highlands, with a cold, alpine climate in the Rwenzori Mountains. \n\nSouth of the Equator, the rainy season lasts from October to May and north of the Equator, from April to November. Along the Equator, rainfall is fairly regular throughout the year. During the wet season, thunderstorms often are violent but seldom last more than a few hours. The average rainfall for the entire country is about .\n\nLocation of Congo:\nCentral Africa, northeast of Angola\n\nGeographic coordinates: \n\nMap references:\nAfrica\n\nArea:\n\"total:\"\n2,344,858 km\n\"land:\"\n2,267,048 km\n\"water:\"\n77,810 km\n\nArea - comparative:\nslightly less than one-fourth the size of the US\n\nLand boundaries:\n\"total:\"\n10,481 km\n\"border countries:\"\nAngola 2,646 km, Burundi 236 km, Central African Republic 1,747 km, Republic of the Congo 1,229 km, Rwanda 221 km, South Sudan 714 km, Tanzania 479 km, Uganda 877 km, Zambia 2,332 km\n\nCoastline:\n\nMaritime claims:\n\"territorial sea:\"\n\n\"exclusive economic zone:\"\nboundaries with neighbors\n\nClimate:\ntropical; hot and humid in equatorial river basin; cooler and drier in southern highlands; cooler-cold and wetter in eastern highlands and the Ruwenzori Range; north of Equator - wet season April to October, dry season December to February; south of Equator - wet season November to March, dry season April to October\nTerrain:\nvast central plateau covered by tropical rainforest, surrounded by mountains in the west, plains and savanna in the south/southwest, and grasslands in the north. The high mountains of the Ruwenzori Range on the eastern borders.\n\nElevation extremes:\n\"lowest point:\"\nAtlantic Ocean 0 m\n\"highest point:\"\nPic Marguerite on Mont Ngaliema (Mount Stanley) 5,110 m\n\nNatural resources:\ncobalt, copper, niobium, petroleum, industrial and gem diamonds, gold, silver, zinc, manganese, tin, uranium, coal, hydropower, timber\n\nLand use:\n\"arable land:\"\n3.09% \n\"permanent crops:\"\n0.36%\n96.55 (2012 est.)\n\nIrrigated land:\n105 km (2003)\n\nTotal renewable water resources:\n1,283 km (2011)\n\nFreshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):\n\"total:\"\n0.68 km/yr (68%/21%/11%)\n\"per capita:\"\n11.25 m/yr (2005)\n\nNatural hazards:\nperiodic droughts in south; Congo River floods (seasonal); in the east, in the Albertine Rift, there are active volcanoes\n\nEnvironment - current issues:\nPoaching threatens wildlife populations (for example, the painted hunting dog, \"Lycaon pictus\", is now considered extirpated from the Congo due to human overpopulation and poaching); water pollution; deforestation (chiefly due to land conversion to agriculture by indigenous farmers); refugees responsible for significant deforestation, soil erosion, and wildlife poaching; mining of minerals (coltan — a mineral used in creating capacitors, diamonds, and gold) causing environmental damage\n\nEnvironment - international agreements:\n\"party to:\"\nBiodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands\n\"signed, but not ratified:\"\nEnvironmental Modification\n\nGeography:\nD.R. Congo is one of 6 African states that straddles the Equator; it's the largest African state that has the Equator passing through it. Very narrow strip of land that controls the lower Congo River and is the only outlet to South Atlantic Ocean; dense tropical rainforest in central river basin and eastern highlands.\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38789791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38789791", "title": "Harka Gurung", "text": "Harka Gurung\n\nDr. Harka Bahadur Gurung (1939–2006) was a Nepalese geographer, anthropologist, author, artist and politician, known for his conservation work.\n\nGurung was born in Lamjung on 5 February 1939, in the village of Taranche. His father was an NCO in the British Army. After completing his secondary education at King George Military School, he studied for a B.A. and M.A. in Geography at Patna University, and later received a PhD from Edinburgh University after being offered a scholarship there.\n\nAfter completing his PhD, Gurung worked as a Research Fellow at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London, returning to Nepal in 1966 to take up a lecturing post at Tribhuvan University in Kathmandu. In 1984 he was appointed Visiting Fellow at the East–West Center in Hawaii. A prolific scholarly author, Gurung published fifteen books and around 675 academic articles and reports. He also worked as an advisor to the World Wildlife Fund in Nepal.\n\nIn 1968 Gurung was appointed Vice-Chairman of Nepal's National Planning Commission. He subsequently held several government posts, including Minister of State for Education, Trade and Industry Minister, and Minister of State for Tourism. He served as Director of the Asia and Pacific Development Centre from 1993–1998, and was a consultant for the World Bank.\n\nGurung unfortunately died in 2006 along with 23 others in a helicopter crash at Ghunsa in Taplejung, whilst returning from a conservation meeting. The 2011 Kathmandu International Mountain Film Festival was dedicated to his memory, and Lamjung F.C. created a memorial football tournament in his honour. In Pokhara, a three-hectare eco-park (the Dr Harka, Chandra & Migma Memorial Laligurans Eco Park) was set up to commemorate Harka and those who died with him in the crash.\n"}
{"id": "6091238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6091238", "title": "Hillock", "text": "Hillock\n\nA hillock or knoll is a small hill, usually separated from a larger group of hills such as a range. Hillocks are similar in their distribution and size to small mesas or buttes. The term is largely a British one. This particular formation occurs often in Great Britain and China. A similar type of landform in the Scandinavian countries goes by the name ”kulle” or ”bakke” (depending on the country) and is contrary to the above phenomena formed when glaciers polish down hard, crystalline bedrock of gneiss or granites, leaving a rounded rocky hillock with sparse vegetation.\n\nOne of the most famous knolls is the one near John F. Kennedy's point of assassination, the grassy knoll.\n\nA \"blind knoll\" is either hidden or not readily apparent to those driving vehicles. There are road signs that warn of this, advising drivers to slow down.\n\n"}
{"id": "37757029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37757029", "title": "History of Luzon", "text": "History of Luzon\n\nThe history of Luzon covers events that happened in the largest island of the Philippine Archipelago, Luzon. Luzon wrested the record of having the oldest man ever discovered in the Philippines with discovery of the Callao Man in 2007, which predated the Tabon Man by around 20,000 years. The written history of Luzon began in around 900 AD with the discovery of the Laguna Copperplate Inscription in 1989. After that, Luzon began to appear in the annals of the Chinese and Japanese. One example would be the Ming Shilu, wherein Luzon appeared in 22 records. Luzon was split among Hindu-Buddhist kingdoms, Muslim principalities, and ethnoreligious tribes, who had trading connections with Borneo, Malaya, Java, Indochina, India, Okinawa, Japan and China before the Spanish established their rule. As a result of the Spanish–American War, Luzon became American territory. In the Second World War, Luzon saw one of the fiercest battles during the Japanese occupation. Luzon, apart from being the largest island, had been the economic and political center of the Philippines ever since the country entered the Western Calendar, being home to the country's capital city, Manila, and the country's largest metropolis, Metro Manila.\n\nThe first evidence of the systematic use of Stone-Age technologies in the Philippines is estimated to have dated back to about 50,000 BC, and this phase in the development of proto-Philippine societies is considered to end with the rise of metal tools in about 500 BC, although stone tools continued to be used past that date. However, new discoveries in Luzon, particularly in Liwan, Kalinga, found stone tools that were dated through potassium argon test at most 920,000 years old, and at least 750,000 years old.\n\nThe earliest human remains known in the Philippines are the fossilized remains discovered in 2007 by Armand Salvador Mijares in Callao Cave, Peñablanca, Cagayan. The find was of a 67,000-year-old remains that predate the Tabon Man, which was discovered in 1962 by Robert Bradford Fox. Specifically, the find consisted of a single 61 millimeter metatarsal which, when dated using uranium series ablation, was found to be at least about 67,000 years old. If definitively proven to be remains of Homo sapiens, since there was a certainty that the Callao Man could be a Homo floresiensis, it would antedate the 47,000-year-old remains of Tabon Man to become the earliest human remains known in the Philippines, and one of the oldest human remains in the Asia Pacific.\n\nThe primary theory surrounding the migration of Callao Man and his contemporaries to Luzon from what is believed to be the present-day Indonesia is that they came by raft. It is notable that the approximate time this happened is, according to experts, prior to the point when human beings were thought to be capable of making long voyages across the sea. It has also been noted that Callao Man could have crossed into the Philippines by a land bridge. This is because at the time Callao Man lived, it was the period known as Ice age and the sea level was lower. Because of lower sea levels, there could have been an Isthmus between the Philippines and the rest of Southeast Asia.\n\nMining in the Philippines began around 1000 BC. However, the discovery of a brass needle in Musang Cave, Cagayan pushed back the date to 2160 BC, the date the needle was made. Metal smiths from this era had already developed a crude version of modern metallurgical processes, notably the hardening of soft iron through carburization. However, unlike the typical pattern, there had been no shift to copper or bronze implements before iron implements, it had been from stone to iron.\n\nGreeks may have reached the Visayan Islands around AD 21 and some scholars conflate accounts of the Golden Island (Sumatra) and Golden Chersonese (Malaysia) by classical writers such as Josephus, Pomponius Mela, and Ptolemy with locations in the Philippines. Gold jewelry of Philippine origin has been found in 1st-century Egypt.\n\nThe Laguna Copperplate Inscription is the earliest known written document found in the Philippines. The plate was found in 1989 by a sand labourer near the mouth of the Lumbang River in Barangay Wawa, Lumban, Laguna. The inscription on the plate was first deciphered by Dutch anthropologist Antoon Postma.\n\nThe inscription is on a thin copper plate measuring less than 20 × 30 cm (8 × 12 inches) in size with words directly embossed onto the plate. It differs in manufacture from other Javanese scrolls of the period, which had the words inscribed onto a heated, softened scroll of metal.\n\nInscribed on it the Saka era date year of Saka 822, month of Waisaka, the fourth day of the waning moon, which corresponds to Monday, 21 April 900 AD in the Gregorian calendar. The writing system used is the Kawi Script, while the language is a variety of Old Malay, and contains numerous loanwords from Sanskrit and a few non-Malay vocabulary elements whose origin is between Old Tagalog and Old Javanese. The document states that it releases its bearers, the children of \"Namwaran\", from a debt in gold amounting to 1 \"kati\" and 8 \"suwarnas\" (865 grams). The original text was written with an English translation below. (\"Place names are in bold.\")\n\nTransliteration\n\nEnglish translation\n\nSwasti. Ṣaka warṣatita 822 Waisakha masa di(ng) Jyotiṣa.\n\n\"Long Live! In the Year of Saka 822, month of Waisakha, according to the astronomer.\"\n\nCaturthi Kriṣnapaksa Somawāra sana tatkala Dayang Angkatan lawan dengan nya sānak barngaran si Bukah anak da dang Hwan Namwaran di bari waradāna wi shuddhapattra ulih sang pamegat senāpati di Tundun barja(di) dang Hwan Nāyaka tuhan Pailah Jayadewa.\n\n\"The fourth day of the waning moon, Monday. On this occasion, Lady Angkatan, and her relative whose name is Bukah, the children of the Honorable Namwaran, were awarded a document of complete pardon from the Commander-in-Chief of Tundun, represented by the Lord Minister of Pailah, Jayadewa.\"\n\nDi krama dang Hwan Namwaran dengan dang kayastha shuddha nu di parlappas hutang da walenda Kati 1 Suwarna 8 di hadapan dang Huwan Nayaka tuhan Puliran Kasumuran dang Hwan Nayaka tuhan Pailah barjadi ganashakti.\n\n\"This means that, through the Honorable Scribe, the Honourable Namwaran is totally cleared of his salary-related debts of 1 \"Katî\" and 8 \"Suwarna\", before the Honorable Lord Minister of Puliran, Kasumuran; by the authority of the Lord Minister of Pailah, represented by Ganasakti.\"\n\nDang Hwan Nayaka tuhan Binwangan barjadi bishruta tathapi sadana sanak kapawaris ulih sang pamegat Dewata [ba]rjadi sang pamegat Mdang dari bhaktinda diparhulun sang pamegat.\n\n\"the Honourable and widely-renowned Lord Minister of Binwagan, represented by Bisruta. And, with his whole family, upon ordered of the Lord Minister of Dewata, represented by the Chief of Mdang, because of his loyalty as a subject of the Commander-in-Chief.\"\n\nYa makanya sadanya anak cucu dang Hwan Namwaran shuddha ya kapawaris dihutang da dang Hwan Namwaran di sang pamegat Dewata.\"\n\n\"Therefore, the living descendants of the Honorable Namwaran are cleared of all debts of the Honorable Namwaran to the Lord Minister of Dewata.\"\n\nIni gerang syat syapanta ha pashkat ding ari kamudyan ada gerang urang barujara welung lappas hutang da dang Hwa\n\n\"This, in any case, whosoever, sometime in the future, who shall state that the debt is not yet cleared of the Honorable...\"\nThe Laguna Copperplate Inscription, among other recent finds such as the Golden Tara of Butuan and 14th century pottery and gold jewellery in Cebu, is significant in revising precolonial Philippine history, which was until then considered by some Western historians to be culturally isolated from the rest of Asia, as no evident pre-Hispanic written records were found at the time. Noted Philippine historian William Henry Scott debunked these theories in 1968 with his \"Prehispanic Source materials for the Study of Philippine History\" which was subsequently published in 1984.\n\nThe barangay government emerged in around 200 AD, which owed the name from the Malay boat balangay. In more developed barangays in the Visayas (e.g. Cebu, Bohol, and Panay) which were the first to be conquered by Spain by means of pacts, peace treaties, and reciprocal alliances, the \"datu\" was at the top of the social order in a \"sakop\" or \"haop\" (elsewhere referred to as \"barangay\"). In Luzon, the social structure had been less stable and more complex as compared to the barangays in the Visayas. Enjoying a more extensive commerce than those in Visayas, having the influence of Bornean political contacts, and engaging in farming wet rice for a living, the Tagalogs, who had established the dominant pre-colonial barangays in Luzon, were described by the Spanish Augustinian friar Martin de Rada as more traders than warriors.\n\nThe more complex social structure of the Luzon barangays was less stable because it was still in a process of differentiating. A Jesuit priest Francisco Colin made an attempt to give an approximate comparison of it with the Visayan social structure in the middle of the 17th century. The term \"datu\" or \"lakan\", or \"apo\" refers to the chief, but the noble class to which the \"datu\" belonged to was known as the \"maginoo\" class. Any male member of the \"maginoo\" class can become a \"datu\" by personal achievement.\n\nThe Yongle Emperor instituted a Chinese Governor on Luzon during Zheng He's voyages and appointed Ko Ch'a-lao to that position in 1405. China also had vassals among the leaders in the archipelago. China attained ascendancy in trade with the area in Yongle's reign.\n\nIn circa 1595, the Spanish made a manuscript known as the Boxer Codex which contained illustrations of Filipinos during the early Spanish era. Aside from a description of, and historical allusions to the Philippines and various other Far Eastern countries, it also contains seventy-five colored drawings of the inhabitants of these regions and their distinctive costumes. At least fifteen illustrations deal with the natives of the Philippine Archipelago.\n\nIn the period between the 7th century to the beginning of the 15th century, numerous prosperous centers of trade had emerged, including the three city-states that formed in what is now Metro Manila, Cebu, Iloilo, Butuan, the Kingdom of Luyag na Caboloan situated in Pangasinan, the Kingdoms of Zabag and Wak-Wak situated in Pampanga and Aparri (which specialized in trade with Japan and the Kingdom of Ryukyu in Okinawa).\n\nMa-i (also spelled Ma'i, Mai, Ma-yi or Mayi; ) was a Prehispanic Philippine state whose existence was recorded in the Chinese Imperial annals \"Zhu Fan Zhi\" and \"History of Song\". It is also recorded in the Sultanate of Brunei's royal records as the nation of Maidh. This state was said to have been centered on the island of Mindoro.\n\nIn Zhao Rugua's account, \"Zhu fan zhi\", Liu-sin (刘罪) was one of the islands in the country known as Ma-i. This is presumed to be Luzon (吕宋).\n\nTraders from Ma-i (麻逸, present-day Mait in northern Mindoro) came to Canton as early as 971 during the Northern Song dynasty (960‒1127). Their activities received the attention of officials at the Chinese Bureau of Maritime Trade. The traders came again in 982. During the Southern Song dynasty, officials at the Chinese Bureau of Maritime Trade in Fujian reported the arrival of more merchants from various Philippine islands: Ma-i, Baipuer 白蒲邇 (present-day Babuyan Islands), and Sandao 三嶋, which was known also as Sanyu 三嶼, a term that was used collectively to refer to the following three islands: Jamayan 加麻延 (present-day Calamian), Balaoyou 巴姥酉 (present-day Palawan),and Pulihuan 蒲裏喚 (perhaps Tuliahan River, near present-day Manila). Their trading activities, especially those by merchants from Sanyu, continued well into the Yuan dynasty (1271‒1368).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4839353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4839353", "title": "ISO 3166-2:BB", "text": "ISO 3166-2:BB\n\nISO 3166-2:BB is the entry for Barbados in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Barbados, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 11 parishes.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Barbados. The second part is two digits (01–11).\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19012956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19012956", "title": "Index of Guernsey-related articles", "text": "Index of Guernsey-related articles\n\nThis page list topics related to the Bailiwick of Guernsey, including Guernsey, Alderney, Sark and smaller islands.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11114151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11114151", "title": "Irbe Strait", "text": "Irbe Strait\n\nIrbe Strait, also known as Irben Strait (, , ), forms the main exit out of the Gulf of Riga to the Baltic Sea, between the Sõrve Peninsula forming the southern end of the island Saaremaa in Estonia and Courland Peninsula in Latvia. It is wide at its narrowest point. A shipping channel has been dredged along its southern shore to allow larger ships to pass.\n\nSee also Saunags.\n"}
{"id": "18064084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18064084", "title": "Islev", "text": "Islev\n\nIslev is a suburb, located approximately 10 km west of central Copenhagen. The suburb consists of single-family detached houses and a commercial area. The suburb is connected to Copenhagen by the S-train. Islev Station is located just east of the border between Islev and Vanløse, just outside Islev itself.\n"}
{"id": "57149995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57149995", "title": "Karen Witten", "text": "Karen Witten\n\nKaren Witten is a New Zealand public health academic. She is currently a full professor at the Massey University.\n\nWitten's 2005 PhD geography thesis from the University of Auckland concerned the six diverse suburban localities in Auckland and the implications of living there for parents raising children and the impacts on health and health inequality.\n\nWitten has worked at the University of Auckland and Massey University, where her work has continued to relate to geographic determiners of health and health inequality, studying things such as fast-food locations, open spaces and bicycling.\n\n"}
{"id": "49344055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49344055", "title": "Linda Newson", "text": "Linda Newson\n\nLinda Newson, FBA, OBE, is director of the Institute of Latin American Studies, School of Advanced Study, University of London.\n"}
{"id": "31746667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31746667", "title": "List of French communes by surface area", "text": "List of French communes by surface area\n\nThis is a list of the largest communes in France in terms of the surface area of their municipalities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10021774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10021774", "title": "List of French forts in North America", "text": "List of French forts in North America\n\nThis is a list of forts in New France built by the French government or French Chartered companies in what later became Canada, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, and the United States. They range from large European-type citadels like at Quebec City to tiny fur-trade posts.\n\nThe French forts in Canada were located west from Alberta to the Atlantic Ocean and as far north as James Bay. Built between the 1640s and the 1750s, a few were captured from rival British fur trading companies like Hudson's Bay Company. The forts were located on waterways to provide transport of fur back east to Montreal or Quebec City. A few have survived or been re-built, but most are ruins or simply disappeared after abandonment.\n\nThe French forts built in what is now the United States, were part of a series of forts built from the Great Lakes to the Mississippi delta; as far west as the Dakotas, as far east as Maine.\n"}
{"id": "47668146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47668146", "title": "List of South American countries by area", "text": "List of South American countries by area\n\nBelow is a list of all the South American countries, in order of geographical area. South America's total geographical area is 17,835,252 km². \n\nThese territories, also located in South America, are not sovereign nations but former colonies of European countries still under control of France and the United Kingdom.\n\nPanama is not regarded as a transcontinental country but the country is sometimes included in South America due to being part of Colombia prior to its secession in 1903. The island of Trinidad is sometimes included in South America, which then makes Trinidad and Tobago a transcontinental country .\n\n"}
{"id": "26400550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26400550", "title": "List of Swedish supercentenarians", "text": "List of Swedish supercentenarians\n\nThis is a list of Swedish supercentenarians (people from Sweden who have attained the age of at least 110 years). The Gerontology Research Group (GRG) has validated the age claims of 18 supercentenarians from Sweden (including 3 emigrants), the oldest of whom is Astrid Zachrison, who died the night of her 113th birthday (15 May 2008). As of , there are two living supercentenarians in Sweden, the oldest of whom is Carl Mattsson, born 7 March 1908, aged .\n"}
{"id": "43807462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43807462", "title": "List of international prime ministerial trips made by Narendra Modi", "text": "List of international prime ministerial trips made by Narendra Modi\n\nThe following is a list of international prime ministerial trips made by Narendra Modi since he became the Prime Minister of India following the Indian general election, 2014.\nAs of , Narendra Modi has made 41 foreign trips on six continents, visiting 59 countries including the visits to USA to attend UN general assembly, to Asian countries, following his \"neighbourhood first\" and \"act east\" policies.\n\nPotential upcoming foreign visits for Prime Minister Narendra Modi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20532898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20532898", "title": "List of mountains of Dominica", "text": "List of mountains of Dominica\n\nDominica is an island-nation in the Caribbean Lesser Antilles. The highest mountain peak on Dominica, at 4,747 ft, is Morne Diablotins, which is also the second highest mountain in the Lesser Antilles.\n\n"}
{"id": "40066718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40066718", "title": "List of postal codes in Egypt", "text": "List of postal codes in Egypt\n\n+20 111 629 7020\nEgypt postal code is different from one city to \nanother. The below charts postal codes from various cities in Egypt.\n\nThe first number is of the region, the second of the province, the third\nof the type of service and the last numbers refers to the delivery area\nor the post office. You can find the exact postal code of the wanted \nregion at any postal office.\n\n"}
{"id": "53429207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53429207", "title": "List of proposed New Zealand flags", "text": "List of proposed New Zealand flags\n\nThis is a list comprising flags publicly suggested as alternatives to the current flag of New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "7057275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7057275", "title": "New Athos Cave", "text": "New Athos Cave\n\nThe New Athos Cave (; ; ) also Novoafonskaya, Novy Afon Cave, or New Afon Cave is a karst cave in the Iverian Mountain in Abkhazia (Georgia) near New Athos. It is one of the largest caves in the world with the volume of its void of about 1,000,000 m³.\n\nThe abyss on a slope of the Iverian Mountain was known for ages, referred to as the \"Bottomless Pit\". It was explored in 1961 by an expedition of four: Zurab Tintilozov, Arsen Okrojanashvili, Boris Gergedava, and Givi Smyr.\n\nSince 1975, it has been a major tourist attraction, featuring its own underground railway. The cave consists of 9 major cavities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56265637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56265637", "title": "Old Airport, Brunei", "text": "Old Airport, Brunei\n\nOld Airport () is an area in Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei. It is the common name given to the former site of the Brunei Airport (hence the name) and is now the location of several government offices.\n\nThe former terminal building of the Brunei Airport has become the office of the Government Printing Department. Its vicinity is also the location of various government buildings which belong to two ministries and several government departments. These include:\n"}
{"id": "25670004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25670004", "title": "Oluf van Steenwinckel", "text": "Oluf van Steenwinckel\n\nOluf van Steenwinckel (died 1659) was a Danish building master and engineer, probably the son of Hans van Steenwinckel the Younger. In the 1640s he worked at Nykøbing Castle among other places and from 1651-52 he was Copenhagen's first City Surveyor (Danish: Stadskonduktør), involved in the cedestral registration and parcelling of Frederick III's \"New Copenhagen.\" In June 1659, during the Northern Wars, he participated in a failed attempt to recapture Kronborg Castle and was executed by the Swedish.\n\n"}
{"id": "2692900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2692900", "title": "Organisation pour la mise en valeur du fleuve Sénégal", "text": "Organisation pour la mise en valeur du fleuve Sénégal\n\nThe Organisation pour la mise en valeur du fleuve Sénégal (OMVS; in English Senegal River Basin Development Authority) is an organisation grouping Guinea, Mali, Mauritania and Senegal for the purpose of jointly managing the Senegal River and its drainage basin.\n\nIn 1963 a predecessor organization was established, the \"Organisation des Etats Riverians du Fleuve Sénégal\" (or the Senegal River Riparian States Organization), with the four border countries—Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal—to manage the Sénégal River drainage basin and the river itself. This organization dissolved when Guinea withdrew due to political tensions and the three remaining countries subsequently created the OMVS. Guinea returned to the organisation in 2006.\n\nThe OMVS aims to promote \"self-sufficiency in\" food security, to improve the income of the local populations, and to preserve the natural ecosystems. The area has a total population of 35 million inhabitants, of whom 12 million live in the river basin, and where malaria control intervention coverage is among the lowest in the world.\n\nOMVS has recently received a high score in a global comparison of indicators of Water Cooperation prepared by international think-tank Strategic Foresight Group. OMVS has a score of 91 in the Water Cooperation Quotient, which examines active cooperation by riparian countries in the management of water resources using 10 parameters, including legal, political, technical, environmental, economic and institutional aspects. The Quotient is calculated on a scale of 0 to 100, with 100 being the best performance. High performance in the Water Cooperation Quotient also means low risk of war between countries in the concerned river basin. \n\n"}
{"id": "16278856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278856", "title": "Outline of Israel", "text": "Outline of Israel\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Israel:\n\nIsrael – country in the Middle East, on the southeastern shore of the Mediterranean Sea and the northern shore of the Red Sea. The State of Israel (\"Medinat Yisrael\") came into existence as the homeland for the Jewish people at the termination of Mandatory British Palestine on 14 May 1948, through the Israeli Declaration of Independence. This was followed by massive migration of Jews from both Europe and the Muslim countries to Israel, and of Arabs from Israel, contributing to the extensive and still ongoing Arab–Israeli conflict. Israel's financial capital and technology center is Tel Aviv and the proclaimed capital is Jerusalem, although the state's sovereignty over the city of Jerusalem is internationally unrecognized. About 43% of the world's Jews live in Israel today, the largest Jewish community in the world.\n\n\nGeography of Israel\n\n\n\nAdministrative divisions of Israel\n\nDistricts of Israel\n\n\nDemographics of Israel\n\nPolitics of Israel\n\n\n\nIsraeli judicial system\n\nForeign relations of Israel\n\nInternational organization membership of Israel\nIsrael is a member of:\n\nLaw of Israel\n\nIsrael Defense Forces\n\nLocal government in Israel\n\nHistory of Israel\n\n\nHistory of ancient Israel and Judah\n\nMandatory Palestine\n\nTimeline of Israeli history\n\n\n\nCulture of Israel\n\n\nSports in Israel\n\nEconomy of Israel\n\nEducation in Israel\n\nIsrael\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7760450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7760450", "title": "Pokolistan", "text": "Pokolistan\n\nPokolistan is a fictional country appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. It is depicted as a former Soviet state and was introduced during Joe Kelly's run on the Superman titles.\n\nA former Soviet republic, Pokolistan was a military dictatorship ruled by General Zod, supported by three metahumans Faora, Ignition and Kancer. While its citizens were not necessarily free, they were healthy, safe and prosperous. Much of the nation's prosperity was due to the usage of Kryptonian technology.\nConsisting mainly of annexed land from Germany, Poland and the Czech Republic, the country is roughly the size of Massachusetts. It also corresponds to exactly the same geographical location as the nation of Modora. As yet, the exact details of how Pokolistan came to occupy the same space as Modora remain unknown. Pokolistan quickly became an orderly society under Zod's rule.\n\nSince Zod's death in battle with Superman, neither Pokolistan nor Zod's team have been revisited in any DC titles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5133982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5133982", "title": "Railroad ecology", "text": "Railroad ecology\n\nRailroad ecology is a term used to refer to the study of the ecological community growing along railroad or railway tracks and the effects of railroads on natural ecosystems. Such ecosystems have been studied primarily in Europe. Similar conditions and effects appear also by roads used by vehicles. Railroads along with roads, canals, and power lines are examples of linear infrastructure intrusions.\n\nRailroad beds, like road beds, are designed to drain water away from the tracks, so there is usually a bed of rock and gravel resulting in fast drainage away from the tracks. At the same time, this drainage often accumulates in areas fairly near the tracks where drainage is poor, forming small artificial wetlands. These unnatural conditions combine to form different zones, some in which water is scarce, others in which water is abundant.\n\nRailroad companies routinely clear-cut and/or spray with herbicide any vegetation that grows too close to the tracks. This favors vegetation that is able to respond favorably to clearcutting, and/or resist herbicides.\n\nOn overhead electrified railroad lines, clear-cutting must be more extensive, vertically as well as horizontally, in order to prevent vegetation (especially tree limbs) from interfering with the pantographs on a moving train, breaking off and falling on the wires, or simply from arcing in proximity to high voltage transmission cables. The same vegetative selection processes described in the previous paragraph apply, but may additionally favor climbing vines due to the presence of catenary and transmission poles in addition to the wooden communications and signal pole lines which often exist(ed) along nonelectrified lines.\n\nHistorically, conditions along railroad beds were very different from today. Coal engines used to blanket the area with soot, favoring species adapted to these conditions (some of which only occurred naturally in volcanic areas). Newer engines produced a less remarkable environment, but many of the same plants have remained and adapted to this new environment.\n\nRailway tracks (like roads and highways) are often colonized by non-native invasive species. In North America, such species include trees such as Ailanthus altissima, Paulownia tomentosa, Siberian Elm, and Norway Maple, and invasive non-woody plants such as Japanese Knotweed and Phragmites. The railway tracks provide corridors along which these species can spread and thrive, even when the surrounding areas might be less hospitable to them.\n\nWildlife species from smaller birds and mammals to deer and large mammals such as elephants may be killed in collisions with trains running on railway tracks.\n\n"}
{"id": "14967273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14967273", "title": "Regenerative design", "text": "Regenerative design\n\nRegenerative design is a process-oriented whole systems approach to design. The term \"regenerative\" describes processes that restore, renew or revitalize their own sources of energy and materials. Regenerative design uses whole systems thinking to create resilient and equitable systems that integrate the needs of society with the integrity of nature. \n\nDesigners use systems thinking, applied permaculture design principles, and community development processes to design human and ecological systems. The development of regenerative design has been influenced by approaches found in the biomimicry, biophilic design, ecological economics, circular economics. As well as social movements such as permaculture, transition and the new economy. Regenerative design can also refer to process of designing systems such as restorative justice, rewilding and regenerative agriculture.\n\nA new generation of designers are applying ecologically inspired design to agriculture, architecture, community planning, cities, enterprises, economics and ecosystem regeneration. Many designers use the resilient models observed in systems ecology in their design process and recognize that ecosystems are resilient largely because they operate in closed loop systems. Using this model regenerative design seeks feedback at every stage of the design process. Feedback loops are an integral to regenerative systems as understood by processes used in restorative practice and community development.\n\nRegenerative design is interconnected with the approaches of systems thinking and with New Economy movement. The 'new economy' considers that the current economic system needs to be restructured. The theory is based on the assumption that people and the planet should come first, and that it is human well-being, not economic growth, which should be prioritized. \n\nWhereas the highest aim of sustainable development is to satisfy fundamental human needs today without compromising the possibility of future generations to satisfy theirs, the goal of regenerative design is to develop restorative systems that are dynamic and emergent, and are beneficial for humans and other species. This regeneration process is participatory, iterative and individual to the community and environment it is applied to. This process intends to revitalize communities, human and natural resources, and for some, society as a whole. \n\nIn recent years regenerative design is made possible on a larger scale using open source socio- technicle platforms and technological systems as used in SMART cities. It is an includes community and city development processes like gathering feedback, participatory governance, sortition and participatory budgeting.\n\nDuring the late 1970s, John T. Lyle (1934–1998), a landscape architecture professor, challenged graduate students to envision a community in which daily activities were based on the value of living within the limits of available renewable resources without environmental degradation. Over the next few decades an eclectic group of students, professors and experts from around the world and crossing many disciplines developed designs for an institute to be built at Cal Poly Pomona. In 1992 the Lyle Center for Regenerative Studies was built over two years and opened in 1994. In that same year Lyle's book \"Regenerative Design for Sustainable Development\" was published by Wiley. In 1995 Lyle worked with William McDonough at Oberlin College for the Adam Joseph Lewis Center for Environmental Studies completed in 2000. In 2002 McDonough's book, the more popular and successful, \"\" was published reiterating the concepts developed by Lyle.\n\nLyle saw the connection between concepts developed by Bob Rodale of the Rodale Institute for regenerative agriculture and the opportunity to develop regenerative systems for all other aspects of the world. While regenerative agriculture focused solely on agriculture, Lyle expanded its concepts and use to all systems. With regenerative agriculture, the concepts are very straight forward and simple but Lyle understood that when developing for other types of systems, more complicated ideas such as entropy and emergy must be taken into consideration.\n\nSwiss architect Walter R. Stahel developed approaches entirely similar to Lyle's also in the late 1970s but instead coined the term cradle-to-cradle design made popular by McDonough and Michael Braungart\n\nWhilst in 1974 David Holmgren and Bill Mollison first started working together to develop the theory and practice of permaculture. They met when Mollison spoke at a seminar at the Department of Environmental Design and began to work together. During their first three years together Mollison worked at applying their ideas, and Holmgren wrote the manuscript for what would become \"Permaculture One: a perennial agricultural system for human settlements\" as he completed his Environmental Design studies, and submitted it as the major reference for his thesis. He then handed the manuscript to Mollison for editing and additions, before it was published in 1978. \n\nThe term permaculture was developed and coined by David Holmgren, then a graduate student at the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education's Department of Environmental Design, and Bill Mollison, senior lecturer in Environmental Psychology at University of Tasmania, in 1978. The word \"permaculture\" originally referred to \"permanent agriculture\", but was expanded to stand also for \"permanent culture\", as it was understood that social aspects were integral to a truly sustainable system as inspired by Masanobu Fukuoka’s natural farming philosophy. Regenerative design is integral to permaculture design.\n\nRegenerative and sustainable are essentially the same thing except for one key point: in a sustainable system, lost ecological systems are not returned to existence. In a regenerative system, those lost systems can ultimately begin \"regenerating\" back into existence. Put more simply regenerative systems work using regenerative feedback loops that allows for adaptability, dynamism and emergence to create and develop resilient systems than the idea that we need to a sustain the world the way we (humans) found it, now and into the future.\n\nThere is also a linguistic problem with the word \"sustainable\", which in the strict sense is meant to mean \"self-sustaining\". Because the word root \"sustain\" means \"last\" or \"endure,\" the general public and even many non-experts in the industry define the word only as \"able to last\" or \"the capacity to endure.\" In popular usage by designers and product manufacturers, \"sustainable\" has become a relative term referring to any material, process or product (including a building) which is less toxic or environmental harmful than those conventionally used. A product that contains 75% recycled material is often considered \"sustainable\", but is in fact merely MORE sustainable than a comparable product that contains no recycled material. A truly sustainable material would be one made of 100% recycled material that can, in turn, be completely recycled into a comparable new material or product. This is rarely the case.\n\n\"Regenerative\" also suffers from a slightly different linguistic problem, the term is still competing with the biological community in terms of its use for the re-growth of limbs etc.. However once the word itself gains wide usage, its meaning becomes more general, much like in the case of the term \"sustainable\". The base meaning of \"re-generative\" means the \"capacity to bring into existence again.\" So if an item or system is regenerative the item or system has the capacity to bring itself into existence again. Using the example above, a truly regenerative product would not only be 100% recycled and recyclable, but it would also improve the environmental conditions at the factory where it was made, the business where it was used and so on throughout its life-cycle (creating habitat, filtering water, catalyzing nitrogen-fixation processes in the soil, etc.).\n\nRegenerative design places more importance on conservation and biodiversity rather than on preservation. It is recognized in regenerative design that humans are a part of natural ecosystems. To exclude people is to create dense areas that destroy pockets of existing ecosystems while preserving pockets of ecosystems without allowing them to change naturally over time. By incorporating people into ecosystems all inputs are pulled from local areas and all outputs are accounted for creating a waste-less system. \n\nRegenerative farming or 'regenerative agriculture' calls for the creation of demand on agricultural systems to produce food in a way that is beneficial to the production and the ecology of the environment. It uses the science of systems ecology, and the design and application through permaculture. As understanding of its benefits to human biology and ecological systems that sustain us is increased as has the demand for organic food. Organic food grown using regenerative and permaculture design increases the biodiversity and is used to develop business models that regenerate communities. Whereas some foods are organic some are not strictly regenerative because it is not clearly seeking to maximize biodiversity and the resilience of the environment and the workforce. Regenerative agriculture grows organic produce through ethical supply chains, zero waste policies, fair wages, staff development and wellbeing, and in some cases cooperative and social enterprise models. It seeks to benefit the staff along the supply chain, customers, and ecosystems with the outcome of human and ecological restoration and regeneration.\n\nThe size of the regenerative system effects the complexity of the design process. The smaller a system is designed the more likely it is to be resilient and regenerative. Multiple small regenerative systems that are put together to create larger regenerative systems help to create supplies for multiple human-inclusive-ecological systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "14605419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14605419", "title": "San Jose Ojos de Agua, El Salvador", "text": "San Jose Ojos de Agua, El Salvador\n\nSan Jose Ojos de Agua is a municipality is located in the department of Chalatenango in the North of El Salvador\n\nOjos de Agua is a municipality in the Department of Chalatenango, El Salvador. It is bordered to the north by Honduras; to the east by Honduras and Nueva Trinidad; to the south by Las Flores and Las Vueltas; and to the west by Concepción Quezaltepeque and El Carrizal. The territorial extension of the municipality is 34.12 km. In 2005 the population of the municipality was 3,579 inhabitants. For its administration, the municipality is divided into seven cantones and 19 caserios.\n\nThe civilization of El Salvador dates from the Pre-Columbian Era, from around 1500 BC, according to experts (Embajada). On May 31, 1522, the first of the Spanish, under the leadership of Captain Pedro de Alvarado, disembarked on the Isla Meanguera, located in the Gulf of Fonseca (Embajada). In June 1524 Captain Alvarado began a war of conquest against the indigenous people of Cuzcatlán (land of precious things). After 17 days of bloody battles many people died but the Spanish were not defeated, so they continued their conquest (Embajada). During the following centuries the Spanish maintained their control, with European families controlling the land and the native and African slaves (Lonely Planet). Towards the end of 1810 the Priest José Matías Delgado, with the support of many people, began a rebellion (Embajada). After years of struggle, the Central American Independence Act was signed in Guatemala, on September 15, 1821 (Embajada).\n\nBy law, on February 18, 1841, the populations of Las Vueltas, Ojos de Agua and La Ceiba formed one electoral area. The village of Ojos de Agua was designated as a formal town in 1867, although in 1855 the Presbyterian doctor Isidro Méndez declared it to be a town of the department of Chalatenango. From May 12, 1902 until April 23, 1906, Ojos de Agua annexed the cantón El Zapotal, along with El Coyolar and Yurique, segregating them from the municipality of Las Vueltas. The canton El Portillo was also segregated from the municipality of El Carrizal. (Chalatenango Monografía del departamento y sus municipios. Instituto Geográfico Nacional Ingeniero Pablo Arnoldo Guzmán Centro Nacional de Registro. 1995.)\n\nDue to the repression of the landowners, in 1931 farmers and indigenous citizens began a rebellion (Lonely Planet). The army responded by killing 30,000 people, including the leader of the rebellion, Farabundo Martí, in a bloody act that was later referred to as La Matanza (The Massacre) (Lonely Planet). But the people remained unhappy with the government. This began a movement organized around leftist guerrillas to combat the repression violence (Stahler-Sholk, 1994:2). The government responded with violence, and the Death Squads were formed, which eventually tortured and killed thousands of people (Foley 2006). More political instability and the assassination of Archbishop Oscar Romero in 1980 sparked the beginning of the Civil War (Lonely Planet). This war, which lasted 12 years, resulted in the death of an estimated 75,000 people and the displacement of thousands more (Stahler-Sholk, 1994:3). The Peace Accords were signed on January 16, 1992 (Embajada).\n\nThe department of Chalatenango was heavily impacted by the Civil War. Many people of Ojos de Agua were forced to abandon their homes because of the violence. But beginning the early 1990s, and especially after the Peace Accords, the people have returned to repopulate the municipality.\n\nCoyolar: \n\nEl Portillo: \n\nEl Sitio: \n\nEl Tablón: \n\nEl Zapotal: \n\nLa Montoñita: \n\nYurique: \n\nSource: Chalatenango Monografía del departamento y sus municipios. Instituto Geográfico Nacional Ingeniero Pablo Arnoldo Guzmán Centro Nacional de Registro. 1995.\n\nAccording to the inhabitants, the caseríos that compose canton Coyolar are now uninhabited. The El caserío El Sitio in cantón El Portillo is known as Tierra Blanca (White Earth). The caseío El Copinol in El Zapotal is uninhabited, as are all of the caseríos in cantón Yurique.\n\nAccording to the populace, the caseríos that compose canton Coyolar are uninhabited. In cantón El Zapotal the caserío El Copinol is uninhabited, as are all the caseríos that compose cantón Yurique. \n\nAccording to the inhabitants, the municipality Ojos de Agua is named after the abundance of water sources in the area. Los Sitios was so named because people used to stay there (“sitiaban”--“they surrounded”) temporarily while taking care of their animals in the area.\n\nEl Coyolar was named by the people because the men there were very “macho” (or coyoludos).\n\nThere are two main political parties in El Salvador, whose roots lie in the Civil War (Foley 2006, Stahler-Sholk 1994). The main right-wing party is La Alianza Republicana Nacionalista (Nactionalist Republican Alliance—ARENA), founded on September 30, 1981, and was in power during the last few wars of the Civil War (ARENA 2007). The Frente Farabundo Marti para La Liberacion Nacional (Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front—FMLN)\nthe socialist party, is the direct descendent of the guerrilla troops that fought against the Salvadoran government, and was legally constituted as a political party on September 1, 1992 (Stahler-Sholk 1994:3). Since the Civil War the two have remained the country’s principal political parties, still divided by the left-right binary. Today ARENA describes itself as a party in whose “forming principals express that a democratic and representational system, which guarantees the freedom of action and the consequences of individual peaceful goals, are the quickest and stablest path to achieve integral development of the nation” (ARENA 2007). The FMLN “has begun to take steps…to act as a consequence of the historically created challenges, in order to make the party an organization of ‘social fighters…’and ‘to unify more’ the struggle for power (Comisión Nacional de Educación Política 2002). Other political parties in El Salvador include The Christian Democratic Party, The United Democratic Center, and The Party of National Conciliation.\n\nThe mayor of Ojos de Agua is Prof. José Raúl Chinchilla Mejía, of the ARENA party.\n\n83% of the population of El Salvador identifies as Roman Catholic, and the other 17% identify as “other” (CIA World Factbook). But in the last few years the population of Catholicism has been reduced (USBDHRL). There is a lot of Protestant activity in the country, and El Salvador has one of the highest rates of Protestantism in Latin America (Soltero y Saravia 2003:1). There is no doubt that religion plays an important role in the lives of many people. Patron-saint and other religious festivals are still very important and celebrated in almost all of the municipalities in the country, and almost all the cantones have their own patron-saint in whose honor the festival is celebrated.\n\n\nThe popular music used to be ranchera and some boleros. Some commonly played instruments were violin, guitar and marimba. Sometimes people made instruments with their own hands, such as flutes made with the stems of papaya-tree leaves and bamboo twigs. Some people also made music with leaves from orange trees and coffee plants. Serenades were also frequent. Most of this music is no longer heard.\n\nOne of the traditional dances was called “La Raspa;” people also danced to ranchera music.\n\nThe production that has historically characterized the municipality is that of corn, beans, sorghum (maicillo), rice, and vegetables. They also produce indigo, and one can still find the remains of the equipment used to manufacture the indigo although it is no longer in use. The plant was crushed with water and then placed into a bottle, then the ink was prepared. They also grow hibiscus flowers.\n\nTraditional foods include beans, tortillas, metas, soups, sweets, and seeds. Other traditional foods and dishes include:\n\nvegetables, mainly potatoes. Pisques are big tamales that are made for people going on trips, so that they can carry them along.\n\nThe majority of the ingredients used to make these foods and drinks are natural and are grown in the area. They also form part of the biodiversity that, in some cases, is threatened or in danger of extinction. Nevertheless, these habits are less common as more people eat commercially produced foods.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23892026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23892026", "title": "Sharq El Owainat", "text": "Sharq El Owainat\n\nSharq El Owainat is located in the New Valley Governorate of Egypt. It is in the south-west of the country, between the Nile and Libya.\n\nAlong with Toshka, Sharq El Owainat forms part of the larger New Valley Project which consists of building a system of canals to transport water from Lake Nasser to irrigate the Western Desert of Egypt.\n\nThe Sharq El Owainat project is part of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak's election programme over the past decade and was inaugurated in 2001. It was introduced as the hope for future generations to escape the crowded and limited valley of the River Nile and establish new communities in the western desert. The project aims to attract investors to cultivate an eventual 240,000 feddans by 2017.\n\nThe initial phase of the project resulted in 27,000 feddans of barren desert land was converted to fertile land. There are about 400 water wells in the area with a further 250 under construction. There is also a nursery that includes 26 greenhouses.\n\nDifferent agricultural ventures are being carried out, many of the high yield produce of the area are meant for exportation (mainly to Europe).\n\nThe area has its own hospital, police station, telephone lines and television transmission. A power plant is current under construction in addition to a livestock slaughter house and meat processing unit.\n\nIn August 2009, the UAE-based agricultural company, Janan, agreed a contract to cultivate 100,000 feddans (about 42,000 hectares) of land with wheat, corn and feed. This contract also included signing an agreement with the national airline of Egypt, EgyptAir Express (\"subsidiary of EgyptAir\"), to operate a weekly flight from Cairo International Airport to Sharq El Owainat Airport in order to serve the movement of workers and investors to encourage agricultural investment in the region. The flights began 1 November 2009 for an initial 1-year period.\n\n"}
{"id": "56145141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56145141", "title": "Tabarnia", "text": "Tabarnia\n\nTabarnia (; ) is a fictional region within Catalonia, a satirical parody of the Catalan independence movement and a movement against the independence of Catalonia from Spain advocating a referendum to create a new Spanish autonomous community out of coastal urban parts of Catalonia that would decide to remain part of Spain in case of a hypothetical Catalan independence. It would encompass the current Catalan \"comarques\" of Tarragonés, Baix Camp, Baix Penedès, Alt Penedès, Garraf, Baix Llobregat, Barcelonès, Vallès Oriental, Vallès Occidental and Maresme.\n\nProponents believe the area somewhat corresponds to the historic County of Barcelona, although its extent is considerably different.\nThis proposal, from a platform created in 2011, was shown to map the electoral results of the Catalan regional election of 21 December 2017, which provoked renewed interest. The word 'Tabarnia' went viral on 26 December 2017, reaching worldwide top-trending status with over 648,000 mentions. The first major demonstration organized by the Tabarnia movement took place in Barcelona on 4 March 2018, with 15,000 participants according to the Guarda Urbana and 200,000 according to organizers.\n\nThe reaction from Catalan pro-secession movements has been very critical, with some separatists using the same arguments against the proposal to create Tabarnia as those used by those who oppose the creation of an independent Catalan Republic. Jaume Vives, the self-claimed spokesman for the Tabarnia proposal, stated: \"It is starting to achieve its objective, that the (Catalan) independentists start debunking their own arguments.\"\n\nCurrently it is not known who is in charge of the so-called Tabarnia movement and who invented the original concept of Tabarnia. Jaume Vives and Albert Boadella have self-proclaimed to be the spokesman and president of Tabarnia. Miquel Martinez presents itself as the representative of Platform for Tabarnia, but in the association registry of Catalonia only exists the \"Associació Somos Tabarnia\" (Association We are Tabarnia). At a Spain level two other platforms exist: \"Coordinadora por Tabarnia\" and \"Asamblea Nacional de Tabarnia\".\n\nProponents of Tabarnia wish to distance themselves from the Catalan separatist movement and reclaim the right of a number of territories near the area of Barcelona and Tarragona to constitute themselves as an autonomous community within Spain. In the 2015 and 2017 Catalan regional elections, parties opposed to secession (mainly Citizens, PSC and PP) received a majority of votes and seats in Tabarnia as a whole and in a small number of coastal \"comarques\" (Tarragonès, Baix Penedès and Baix Llobregat) including the city of Tarragona. They received a plurality of votes in the comarca of Barcelonès, yet not in the city of Barcelona itself. They allude to a series of fiscal arguments similar to those of Catalan separatism in regards to Spain. The term \"Tabarnia\" is a neologism based on the names of Tarragona and Barcelona, the two Catalan provinces where support for separatism is lower, although in last Catalan election, Tarragona province showed more support for separatism than unionism.\n\nThe movement uses as a legal basis the Canadian Clarity Act, according to which regions opposed to Quebecois separatism are to remain within Canada in case of a secession, as well as Articles 143 and 144 of the Spanish constitution, which allows the formation of autonomous communities.\n\nAn ongoing online petition is taking place at Change.org in order to be sent to the Spanish Congress of Deputies to consider the creation of this new autonomous region. It has received 281 000 signatures to date.\n\nOn 4 March 2018 a protest mocking the Catalan independence bid was organized by the Tabarnia movement. 15 000 demonstrators according to the urban guard and 200 000 according to the organizers gathered with Spanish, Tabarnian and Catalan flags and waived slogans for Tabarnia mimicking those of the Catalan independence movement. The protest started with a floral offering at the statue of Rafael Casanova, Considered by the independentists a patriot of their cause, but that according to one of his descendants present at the protest was actually a Spanish patriot. According to one of the organizers, the goal of the protest was to show the absurdity of the arguments for independence. He told the media that \"we want to be the mirror of what the independence movement is all about\". The protest was also criticized by some separatists which claim that Tabarnia trivializes their movement, which according to them is based on a distinct cultural identity and a long history of tension with Madrid. The protest ended at Saint James's Square, directly across from the Palau de la Generalitat de Catalunya.\n\nThe protest on 4 March received support from some civic and political associations, including the pro Spanish union platform Societat Civil Catalana, and far-right political parties like PxC and Vox.\n\nAn online petition was begun on Change.org to have the name of the (Catalan Countries Square) changed to \"\".\n\nTabarnians claim vote representation in Catalonia to be unfair across the four different provinces Lleida, Girona, Tarragona and Barcelona, resulting in unfair economic investment. Under the current electoral law, in the province of Barcelona 48,521 votes are needed to elect one representative in the Catalan Parlament for the 20,915 votes needed in Lleida, resulting in a 2.3 ratio. Tarragona requires 31,317 votes and Girona 30,048. Catalan separatists argue the current electoral law ensures political representation for areas with a lower population density while tabarnians argue the law has not been revised because historically Lleida and Girona have always had a majority of voters in favor of the separatist political parties that have kept them in government.\n\nThe same way Catalan separatist have used an interpretation of economic data to argue they have an unfavourable finance balance towards the rest of Spain, Tabarnians argue Tarragona and Barcelona underrepresentation in the Catalan Parlament has resulted in unfavourable finance balance towards their region, also backed by similar interpretation of economic data.\n\nThe Tabarnia Movement is still in its early days and is too soon to know how their political claims will unfold. Some Tabarnians simply believe this movement to be a satirical response that mirrors separatist with their own logic. Some Tabarnians demand that, in case a hypothetycal referendum for Catalonia independence was held, the seven different veguerias (Vegueria) be decided separately, so \"Tarragona\" and \"Àmbit metropolità\" are not declared independent against their democratic will. Some Tabarnians have grown so tired of the Catalan separatist movement, that they seem committed to celebrating a referendum in October 2018 to split from Catalonia as a Spanish autonomous region whether the previous referendum takes place or not. Some Tabarnians want to be declared a new autonomous region, which they argue is legally plausible under the present Spanish Constitution of 1978.\n\nOn 27 December 2017, following public enquiry by Spanish citizens, the Real Academia Española (Royal Academy of Spanish Language) informed through their Twitter account that the most appropriate demonym for Tabarnia would be \"Tabarnés\" among other possible options such as \"tabarniense\", \"tabarniano\", or \"tabinososano\".\n\nTabarnia is a fictional territorial proposal that does not correspond to any present political or administrative unit. The tabarnian movement mirrors the alleged historical revisionism by Catalan separatists, and finds a precedent of territorial political and administrative unit at a certain point in history that justifies their existence: According to their own publication, the County of Barcelona, during the Middle Ages, had a similar territory to the one proposed by Tabarnians, today. Most sources consider Tabarnia to be just a fictional region.\n\nThe present day official distribution of Catalonia's counties grouped in \"Veguerias\" (Vegueria), show a territorial distribution where \"Tarragona\" and \"Àmbit metropolità\" match the territory proposed for Tabarnia.\n\nThe movements founders, Catalan politicians such as Inés Arrimadas and numerous commentators have argued that the rise of this movement creates tension among the Catalan separatist movement because it serves as a mirror of their argumental contradiction. By using their same arguments for independence, it forces Catalan separatists to contradict themselves by using \"unionist\" counter-arguments in order to discredit the Tabarnia movement.\n\nBy proposing the hypothetical separation of Tabarnia from Catalonia, the founders of the Tabarnia project want for the separatist politicians to realize that a large proportion of Catalans consider themselves Spanish and do no not want to leave Spain and that a declaration of independence could trigger similar movements within the territory, to the point of absurdity. According to Manuel Muñiz, the dean of the school of international relations at IE University in Madrid, it sparked a debate over \"who is to vote and when\" in a democracy and he questioned whether regions should be the ones entitled to decide on their independence or if cities would also qualify? Or should it be neighborhoods within cities?\n\nAccording to Salvador Garcia Ruiz, the chief executive of \"Ara\", a Catalan pro-independence newspaper, Tabarnia is nothing more than a sour response to the results of the Catalan regional election, 2017 in which the independentists did not lose their majority over the parliament. He labeled Tabarnia as Peter Pan's \"Neverland\" for the unionists. Podemos' leader Pablo Iglesias was also critical with the movement because he claimed it was fueling an unhelpful \"war of flags\" but the spokesman for Tabarnia claims that the goal was never to break up Catalonia, but rather ending Catalan secessionism and all its disruptive consequences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10574595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10574595", "title": "Tal-Ħandaq", "text": "Tal-Ħandaq\n\nTal-Ħandaq is an area in Qormi, Malta. It is a low hill. Situated on the left side of Mdina Road in Qormi, in the old days it was a rural area, with a few farms. In the 19th century, the British established a barracks up the hill. Between January 1947 and July 1978 Tal-Ħandaq was the site of the Royal Naval School Tal-Handaq. The site re-opened as a new school in September 1981 as the Liceo Vassalli Junior Lyceum.\n\nIn the 1980s, the Malta Environment and Planning Authority (MEPA) started to issue permissions for houses to be built. However, after some residents settled there, plans were changed and the Tal-Ħandaq area was changed to an Industrial Zone and was renamed to \"Tal-Ħandaq Industrial Estate\"'. Nowadays, although there remain some residents and a few farms, the area has flourished with an extensive number of small businesses, the most common being Panel Beating and Spray Painting, Stoneworks, Steelworks and Woodworks. There is also a film studio.\n\nTal Handak is the British spelling of the town of Tal-Ħandaq. (In Maltese the letter \"Q\" stands for a glottal stop .)\n\n"}
{"id": "7575278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7575278", "title": "Tannochbrae", "text": "Tannochbrae\n\nTannochbrae is a fictional village in Scotland first introduced in the Dr. Finley short stories of A. J. Cronin as a \"snug little village on the lochside\", and later used in his autobiographical \"Adventures in Two Worlds\". It is best known as the setting of the television and radio series based Cronin's Dr. Finley stories. \n\nThe filming of the original BBC series, \"Dr Finlay's Casebook\", took place in Callander. The second ITV series, \"Doctor Finlay\", was filmed in Auchtermuchty.\n"}
{"id": "891050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=891050", "title": "Telephone numbers in China", "text": "Telephone numbers in China\n\nTelephone numbers in China are organized according to the Chinese Telephone Code Plan. The numerical formats of landlines and mobile phones are different: landlines have area-codes, whereas mobile phones do not. In major cities, landline-numbers consist of a two-digit area code followed by an eight-digit inner-number. In other places, landline-numbers consist of a three-digit area code followed by a seven- or eight-digit inner-number. The numbers of mobile phones consist of eleven digits.\n\nWhen one landline is used to dial another landline within the same area, it is not necessary to specify the area-code. Between different areas, the target-number must be prepended with the trunk-prefix, which is 0.\n\nCalling a mobile phone from a land line requires the addition of the \"0\" in front of the mobile phone number if they are not in the same area as well. Mobile to land line calls require the \"0\" and the area code, if the land line is not within the same area. Mobile to mobile calls do not require the \"0\". The \"0\" is not dialled from outside mainland China.\n\nThe Special Administrative Regions of Hong Kong and Macau are not part of this numbering plan, and use the country codes +852 and +853, respectively.\n\nIn addition, the PRC numbering plan once reserved space for Taiwan, but have dropped this practice.\n\n2016 December in mainland China have excuted real name to each cell phone number.\n\nIn mainland China, mobile phone numbers have 11 digits in the format 1xx-xxxx-xxxx, in which the first three digits (e.g. 13x, 14x,15x,17x and 18x) designate the mobile phone service provider.\n\nAs new numbers were introduced over time, it is possible to recognize the age of a number: The oldest GSM numbers start with 1390…, the second oldest 1380… and 1300… Keeping the same number over time is somewhat associated with stability and reliability of the owner. As the fourth digit was introduced later, thus it is 0 for all old numbers. In further extensions, non-139,138,130 numbers were introduced. The fifth to seventh digit sometimes relates to age and location.\n\nEven earlier, before GSM, mobile phones had numbers starting with 9. Those numbers were eventually translated into 1390xx9…, where xx were local identifiers.\n\nMobile service providers can be identified by the first three or four digits as follows:\n\n1 - Formerly China Unicom\n\n2 - Assigned to VNOs\n\n3 - Operated by China Transport Telecommunication & Information Center\n\nTo call in China, the following format is used:\n\nxxx xxxx Calls within the same area code\n\n0yyy xxx xxxx Calls from other areas within China\n\n+86 yyy xxx xxxx Calls from outside China\n\n1nn xxxx xxxx Calls to mobile phones within China\n\n+86 1nn xxxx xxxx Calls to mobiles from outside China\n\nThe prefix 1 is used exclusively by the national capital, Beijing Municipality.\n\n\nThese are area codes for the municipalities of Shanghai, Tianjin and Chongqing, as well as several major cities with early access to telephones. All of these cities have upgraded to an 8-number system in the past decade. The People's Republic of China reserves code 26 for Taipei, capital of Taiwan.\n\nAll telephone numbers are 8-digit in these areas (exclude Taipei).\n\n\nThese are area codes for the provinces of Hebei, Shanxi and Henan.\n\n\n\n\nThese are area codes for the autonomous region of Inner Mongolia, and the provinces in Northeast China (Liaoning, Jilin, and Heilongjiang). Additionally, numbers starting 400 are shared-pay (callers are charged local rate anywhere in the country) numbers.\n\nThe provincial capital, Shenyang, and Tieling, Fushun, Benxi, uses code 24.\n\n\n\n\n\nThese are area codes for the provinces of Jiangsu, Shandong (predominantly), Anhui, Zhejiang and Fujian.\n\nThe provincial capital of Nanjing uses code 25. All telephone numbers are 8-digit in Jiangsu.\n\n\nWhile most areas in Shandong use the prefix 5, some areas also use the prefix 6.\n\n\n\n\n\nKinmen, Matsu, and Wuchiu are currently under the control of the Republic of China; and are under the international calling code of 886.\n\nAll area codes with prefix 6 were assigned in recent years. This prefix (+866) previously was reserved for Taiwan, which is now assigned (+886).\n\nWhile most areas in Shandong use the prefix 5, some areas also use the prefix 6.\n\n\nWhile most areas in Guangdong use the prefix 7, some areas also use the prefix 6. The provincial capital Guangzhou uses code 20.\n\n\nWhile most areas in Yunnan use the prefix 8, a couple of areas also use the prefix 6.\n\n\nThese are area codes for the central provinces of Hubei, Hunan, Guangdong (predominantly), Jiangxi, and the autonomous region of Guangxi.\n\nThe provincial capital of Wuhan uses code 27.\n\n\n\nSome areas in Guangdong use the prefix 6, while the provincial capital of Guangzhou uses code 20.\n\n\n\n\nThese are area codes for the provinces of Sichuan, Hainan, Guizhou, Yunnan (predominantly) and the autonomous region of Tibet.\n\nThe provincial capital of Chengdu, and Meishan, Ziyang uses code 28.\n\n\n\nSome areas in Yunnan use the prefix 6.\n\n\n\n\nThese are area codes for northwestern regions including the provinces of Shaanxi, Gansu and Qinghai, as well as the autonomous regions of Ningxia and Xinjiang.\n\nThe provincial capital Xi'an uses code 29. Xianyang uses the same code as Xi'an starting from 16 September 2006.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFrom within Mainland China, the following emergency numbers are used:\n\n\nIn most cities, the emergency numbers provide assistance in Mandarin Chinese and English.\n\n1. Starting from 2012 in Shenzhen, a system upgrade was put in place to unify three emergency reporting services into one number, 110. This similar system is being installed in more cities in China to make them more convenient.\n\nFrom within Mainland China, the following special numbers are used:\n(ex. 962288- Shanghai foreigner assistant hotline, when dialing from other areas within China, dial 021-962288)\n\nThe international access code from the PRC is 00. This must also be used for calls to Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau from the Chinese mainland, together with their separate international codes, as follows:\n\n\n"}
