{"id": "53672019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53672019", "title": "Alan Abel (musician)", "text": "Alan Abel (musician)\n\nAlan Abel (born 1928) is an American percussionist, music teacher and inventor of musical instruments. A graduate of the Eastman School of Music, he performed with various orchestras, most notably for 38 years with the Philadelphia Orchestra from 1959 to 1997. \n\nIn addition to his musical career, Abel is also since 1972 a teacher of music at Temple University. Abel is also credited with inventing the \"Alan Abel Triangle\" and the \"suspended\" bass drum stand, a drum stand that allows the bass drum to be suspended and swiveled, both of which have since been in use by many professional classical musicians and most American symphonic orchestras.\n\nAbel was born in Hobart, Indiana, in 1928. At the age of seven, he started percussion lessons. He studied with Clarence Carlson at the Roy Knapp School and then with Haskell Harr and William Street at the Eastman School of Music from 1947 to 1951, where he earned a performance degree and played part-time with the Rochester Philharmonic Orchestra. \n\nAfter enlisting and playing in the United States Air Force Band from 1951 to 1953, he performed with the Oklahoma City Philharmonic from 1953 to 1959. In 1959 he became a member of the Philadelphia Orchestra with which he performed until the end of his career in 1997. He was named Associate Principal Percussionist of that orchestra in 1972.\n\nIn 1998 he was inducted into the Percussive Arts Society Hall of Fame. In 2012, he was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Music by the New England Conservatory of Music.\n\nAbel has also been a teacher at Rutgers University, Rowan University, and Temple University, at the latter since 1972.\n\nAbel's predecessor at the Philadelphia Orchestra, Jim Valerio, had a custom-made triangle which was coveted by his peers. After lending it to Abel for the first two years, Abel devised a way to recreate the sound and created the \"Alan Abel Triangle\", which uses a piece of chromed brass. Used because of its overtone-rich sound, the Triangle has been manufactured since 1963. \n\nAbel also invented the \"suspended\" bass drum stand in the early 1960s, which he manufactured himself until 2013, when he handed manufacturing to Andy Reamer, who had previously supplied the drums. The stand allows the bass drum to be suspended on a ring that swivels. The suspended bass drum stand is used by most American symphonic orchestras and the concept has been copied and imitated by multiple drum hardware manufacturers worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "1359194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1359194", "title": "Alexander Slidell Mackenzie", "text": "Alexander Slidell Mackenzie\n\nAlexander Slidell Mackenzie (April 6, 1803 – September 13, 1848), born Alexander Slidell, was a US naval officer, most famous for his 1842 decision to execute three suspected mutineers aboard a ship under his command, the \"USS Somers\". Mackenzie was also an accomplished man of letters, producing several volumes of travel writing and biographies of early important US naval figures, some of whom he knew personally.\n\nMackenzie was the brother of Senator John Slidell of Louisiana, who was later involved in the American Civil War's Trent Affair.\n\nMackenzie was the captain of the USS \"Somers\" when it became the only US Navy ship to undergo a mutiny, which led to executions, including Philip Spencer, the 19-year-old son of the Secretary of War John C. Spencer.\n\nMackenzie's handling of the \"Somers\" Affair, including its lack of a lawful court martial, was controversial; the incident inspired the novella \"Billy Budd\" by American author Herman Melville. The \"Somers\" Affair also led to the founding of the United States Naval Academy.\n\nMackenzie (then Slidell) was born April 6, 1803, in New York City, to Margery [also spelled Marjorie] (Mackenzie) and John Slidell. Alexander was one of a large family of children. His older siblings included Thomas Slidell (later chief justice of Louisiana's state supreme court), John Slidell (later US Senator from Louisiana), and Jane Slidell (later the wife of Commodore Matthew C. Perry). Jane's marriage to M.C. Perry was to have a particularly profound influence on her younger brother's life, bringing him into close contact with one of the nation's leading naval families, which included Matthew's heroic older brother, Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry, and members of Commodore John Rodgers' family, with whom the Perrys intermarried.\n\nIn 1837–38, Alexander Slidell petitioned the New York State legislature and obtained the right to change his name to Mackenzie, reputedly as a condition of claiming the inheritance of a maternal uncle.\n\nMackenzie was the father of General Ranald Slidell Mackenzie, who, after a successful Civil War career, commanded the 4th Cavalry Regiment (United States), securing the line of settlement in Texas and throughout the West. Ranald Mackenzie was arguably the best Indian fighter of the American West. Another son was Lt. Commander Alexander Slidell MacKenzie.\n\nMackenzie entered the U.S. Navy as a midshipman in 1815. A contemporary of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow and a personal friend of Washington Irving, he published a number of books, including \"A Year in Spain\", \"Life of John Paul Jones\", \"Life of Commodore Stephen Decatur\", and \"Life of Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry\" (his late brother-in-law). He was promoted to Lieutenant on January 13, 1825 and to Commander on September 8, 1841.\n\nUSS \"Somers\" was launched by the New York Navy Yard on April 16, 1842, and was commissioned on 12 May 1842, with Mackenzie in command. After completing a shakedown cruise Puerto Rico and back, the new brig sailed out of New York harbor on September 13, 1842 with orders to head for the Atlantic coast of Africa with dispatches for the frigate \"Vandalia\". \"Somers\" was also acting as an experimental schoolship for naval apprentices on this voyage; the \"Somers\" crew was mostly inexperienced sailors and seamen.\n\nAfter looking for \"Vandalia\" at Madeira, Tenerife, and Porto Praia, \"Somers\" arrived at Monrovia, Liberia, on November 10, only to discover that the frigate had already sailed for home. The next day, Mackenzie set sail for the Virgin Islands hoping to meet up with the \"Vandalia\" at St. Thomas before the return journey back to New York.\n\nOn the passage to the West Indies, some of the \"Somers\" officers noticed a steady worsening of morale among the crew. On November 26, 1842, Mackenzie arrested Midshipman Philip Spencer, the son of Secretary of War John Canfield Spencer, for inciting mutiny. The other two young sailors arrested with Spencer were Elisha Small and Samuel Cromwell.\n\nA council of officers, not a court martial, concluded that the three sailors were guilty and recommended their immediate execution, which took place at sea on December 1, 1842. Only 13 days later, \"Somers\" arrived in New York, where a naval court of inquiry was immediately ordered to investigate the affair.\n\nAlthough Mackenzie was completely exonerated at the court of inquiry and at a subsequent court martial by a split vote, the controversial incident colored the remainder of his life. It was customary then to commend officers cleared at a court/martial, but Mackenzie's court-martial made very clear that it was not commending him. The entire affair resulted in a great sensation, and Mackenzie's conduct was as severely criticized by his opponents as it was ardently defended by his supporters.\n\nMackenzie was also an accomplished author and naval historian. While his tours of duty in the navy were broadening, he also used several extended leaves to travel in Europe, where he mingled with other literary Americans including Henry Wadsworth Longfellow and fellow New Yorker Washington Irving, a lifelong friend. Mackenzie's first work, \"A Year in Spain, by a Young American\" (1829), made him known in America as well as in England. Other works followed: \"Popular Essays on Naval Subjects\" (1833), \"The American in England\" (1835), \"Spain Revisited\" (1836), \"Life of John Paul Jones\" (1841), \"Life of Commodore Oliver H. Perry\" (1841), and \"Life of Commodore Stephen Decatur\" (1846). Mackenzie's interpretations of recent naval history and his role in the \"Somers\" affair made him the subject of spirited attacks from James Fenimore Cooper.\n\nMackenzie also wrote a manuscript, \"A Journal of a Tour in Ireland, The Case of the 'Seiners\"'; \"Defence of A. S. Mackenzie\", 1843.\n\nAccording to a letter written by Capt. D.W. Knox, U.S.N. (ret.) on July 1, 1938 in response to a query to the Department of the Navy, \"Commander MacKenzie died suddenly September 13, 1848, at his residence, near Tarrytown, N.Y., of heart disease. The Department was notified of his death on September 14, by Captain Isaac McKeever, Commandant at New York, who stated that he had been informed of it by Commodore Matthew C. Perry.\" He was a resident of Scarborough, New York.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2333179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2333179", "title": "Beatrice of Portugal, Duchess of Savoy", "text": "Beatrice of Portugal, Duchess of Savoy\n\nInfanta Beatrice of Portugal (); ) (31 December 1504 – 8 January 1538) was Duchess of Savoy by marriage to Charles III, Duke of Savoy. She was the Sovereign Countess of Asti from 1531 to 1538.\n\nShe was the second daughter of Manuel I of Portugal (1469–1521) and his second wife, Maria of Aragon (1482–1517). Her siblings included King John III of Portugal and Holy Roman Empress Isabella. She was educated under the supervision of her governess Elvira de Mendoza.\n\nIn Villefranche-sur-Mer on 8 April 1521, Beatrice married Charles III, Duke of Savoy. He had succeeded as the Duke of Savoy since 1504, making Beatrice Duchess consort at the moment of her wedding.\n\nBeatrice is described as beautiful, brilliant and ambitious. In 1531, she received as a fiefdom, from her cousin and brother-in-law, the emperor Charles V, the County of Asti which, on her death, was inherited by her son and permanently included on the Savoy's heritage.\n\nIn 1534, she welcomed Christina of Denmark, a ward of her brother-in-law the Emperor, on her way to her marriage with the Duke of Milan. When Christina was widowed in 1535, the Milanese Count Stampa suggested a marriage between Christina and the eldest son of Beatrice, Louis, the heir of Savoy, in an attempt to protect Milan from Imperial sovereignty. Beatrice supported the plan, and when Louis died, she suggested that her next son could replace him. Nothing more was heard of this, however. In April 1536, Beatrice fled from the French conquest of Savoy to Christina in Milan in the company of two of her two eldest surviving children and the Holy Shroud of St. Joseph of Arimathea from Chambéry. In May, she was able to visit the Emperor with Christina in Pavia, but without any political result. She then lived as a guest with Christina in Milan, with whom she was good friends. In November 1537, Beatrice was escorted by the Imperial viceroy of Milan to the Emperor in Genova, but again, the meeting was without any result. She continued to Nice, where she reunited with her spouse. She died in Nice in January 1538.\n\nIn Villefranche-sur-Mer on 8 April 1521, Beatrice married Charles III, Duke of Savoy. He had succeeded as the Duke of Savoy since 1504, making Beatrice Duchess consort at the moment of her wedding. They had nine children:\n\n\nAfter the death of the childless Sebastian of Portugal (her grand-nephew), her son fought for his rights to become King of Portugal, however he failed and the throne was given to Isabella's son Philip.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27883952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27883952", "title": "Bertie Bowler", "text": "Bertie Bowler\n\nAlbert Bowler (born 1891) was an English professional footballer who played as an inside forward.\n\nBowler was born in Nottingham. He began his career while serving as a private in the British Army, playing for Army Cup winners Sherwood Foresters. He obtained his discharge from the Army in 1911, allowing him to join Southern League club Plymouth Argyle. He made his first team debut in a 1–0 win at New Brompton on 23 December 1911 and scored his first goal against Millwall in a 2–0 win on 6 January 1912. The following season, Bowler scored 18 league goals in 36 appearances as the club became Southern League champions. He played in five matches for the Southern League representative side and was selected for England in an unofficial international against Scotland in Cairo during the First World War. He returned to Plymouth after the war, and was a member of the squad when the club was elected to the Football League in 1920. Bowler continued playing for another three years before retiring from the game in 1923.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1145037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1145037", "title": "Beta Ray Bill", "text": "Beta Ray Bill\n\nBeta Ray Bill is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Debuting in the Bronze Age of Comic Books, the character was initially intended to be a surprise as an apparent monster who unexpectedly proves to be a great hero. As such, Bill becomes the first being outside the Marvel Universe's Norse pantheon to be deemed worthy to wield Thor's hammer, Mjolnir. After an initial rivalry for possession of the weapon, the alien warrior was granted a war hammer of his own, called Stormbreaker, and the two reconciled as staunch allies.\n\nBeta Ray Bill has been featured in other Marvel-endorsed products, such as , video games, and merchandise.\n\nBeta Ray Bill debuted in \"The Mighty Thor\" #337 (November 1983), being established as an alien of the Korbinite race. Bill was created by Walt Simonson as a new concept for the title \"Thor\". Simonson said,\n\nDuring a \"Thor Spotlight\" panel at the Baltimore Comic Con, August 28, 2010, Simonson further stated:\n\nThe character's introduction continued in \"Thor\" vol 1 #338–340. He continued to make appearances in \"Thor\" sporadically. He appeared in the \"Maximum Security\" crossover in January 2001 and the \"Secret Invasion\" crossover in 2008. He starred in the 6-issue miniseries \"Stormbreaker: The Saga of Beta Ray Bill\" and its two follow-ups, the one-shot \"Beta Ray Bill: The Green of Eden\" and 3-issue \"Beta Ray Bill: Godhunter\".\n\nSpy organization S.H.I.E.L.D. detected an alien fleet passing through Earth's solar system, with Director Nick Fury asking Thor to investigate. When Thor finds the advance ship, it scans Thor and perceives him to be a threat. Unable to stop Thor, the sentient ship—called \"Skuttlebutt\"—revives Beta Ray Bill, who is in suspended animation. Bill battles Thor to a standstill, until the ship reaches Earth's orbit, where one of the mystical enchantments of Thor's hammer Mjolnir comes into effect, which means that Thor will revert to his mortal persona of Donald Blake if separated from the hammer for more than 60 seconds. When that happens, Blake is knocked unconscious by Bill, who examines Blake's cane (Mjolnir's \"shell\" when Thor is in Blake's form) and on striking the cane receives Thor's power and costume.\n\nOnce \"Skuttlebutt\" arrives on Earth, Bill easily defeats an approaching S.H.I.E.L.D. team and is then transported to Asgard by the King of the Norse gods, Odin, who mistakes Bill for Thor. After some initial confusion, Odin returns Thor to Asgard, and Bill's origin is revealed. Bill's race, the Korbinites, were almost rendered extinct when their galaxy exploded. The remnants of the Korbinite race fled in a fleet of warships, guarded by a sentient ship called \"Skuttlebutt\" and a dedicated champion, Beta Ray Bill. Via Korbinite science, Bill was physically augmented and given the attributes of an indigenous wild beast (a process that killed all of Bill's predecessors). \"Skuttlebutt\" attacked Thor because the ship recognized the Asgardian magic as similar to that of the previous global threat, and assumed the Korbinites were being threatened once again.\n\nOn discovering that Bill was worthy enough to lift Mjolnir, Odin proposes a battle to the death in the fiery Asgardian realm of Skartheim to decide who will wield the hammer. Bill and Thor render each other unconscious. Bill's resistance to heat allows him to recover first, however, and he is deemed the winner—but he also saves Thor from falling into lava, believing he is too worthy an opponent to die, but he feels he needs the hammer to protect his people. After Bill reconsiders his claim to the hammer, Odin orders the making of a new hammer for Bill: Stormbreaker, equal in power to Mjolnir and created from the same dwarf star. Odin also transfers an enchantment from Mjolnir to Stormbreaker, so that Bill can return to his original Korbinite form by striking Stormbreaker upon the ground—and Thor can no longer become Donald Blake. After learning that the mishap that killed most of Bill's people was caused by the fire demon Surtur, one of Asgard's most powerful enemies, Bill agrees to join the Asgardians in a war to stop Surtur and his armies.\n\nBill leads many of Earth's heroes against Surtur's forces on Earth while Thor, Odin, and Thor's adopted brother Loki confront Surtur in Asgard. Surtur is eventually defeated, but apparently kills Odin when they both fall through a mystic portal. Bill remains on Earth, aiding the spaceknight Rom against the threat of the alien Dire Wraiths and foes such as Iron Man opponent Titanium Man.\n\nForming an attachment with the Asgardian goddess Sif, Bill aids Thor against the Dark Elf Kurse in a two-part storyline before returning to his people.\n\nBill remains a staunch ally of Thor and Asgard before featuring in a storyline involving a creation of Galactus, Tyrant. Bill also features in the storyline \"Blood and Thunder\", attempting alongside Adam Warlock, Thanos and others to deal with the \"warrior madness\" of Thor in which he is trying to destroy the universe, although at one point he is struck with enough force to destroy a planet. Together with Thor, Bill joins with other versions of the Thunder God in the \"Thor Corps\" against the entity Demonstaff. and has several cosmic adventures.\n\nBill also participates in a battle between the heroes of Earth and several alien races such as the Kree, Shi'ar, and Z'Nox. and after several adventures with Thor guest starring in the final storyline, when Thor—determined to end the perpetual cycle of death and rebirth the Asgardians are trapped in—brings about Ragnarök (in Norse mythology this event means the end of Asgard and its gods, as they die in battle against the armies of evil). Although Bill attempts to aid the Asgardians, Thor teleports Bill away as it is not his destiny to die in Ragnarök.\n\nBill visits his people's new homeworld, where he is attacked by his insane predecessor, \"Alpha Ray\", defeating him just as the cosmic entity Galactus and his herald Stardust arrive. Despite Bill's efforts, Galactus consumes the world and almost kills him, with Bill drifting in space until recovered by \"Skuttlebutt\". After finding an orb containing the souls of many of the Korbinites, Bill revisits a desolate Asgard, and joins forces with Stardust to battle a new demonic menace named \"Asteroth\".\n\nAlthough victorious, Bill is mortally wounded, and while near death is healed by an unknown entity that also claims the remaining souls in the orb. Placed in the recently deceased body of a war veteran named \"Simon Walters\" (a reference to his creator, Walt Simonson) on Earth, Bill has a brief encounter with the villain \"Boar\" and the hero Spider-Man. Bill eventually finds and joins Canadian superhero team \"Omega Flight\" against the supervillain team the Wrecking Crew, who release the supernatural Great Beasts. The battle ends with Bill and the Beasts trapped in an alternate dimension.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Invasion\" storyline, Bill is wounded and captured by the alien Skrulls, who bestow his hammer Stormbreaker on a warrior Super-Skrull called the \"Godkiller\". Thor rescues Bill, although Loki starts a rumor that Bill may be a Skrull, causing some Asgardians to go against him despite Balder telling them to stop. Thor throws Mjolnir at Bill, who catches it, proving he really is Bill. After being nursed back to health, the character retrieves his hammer. Although the Godkiller defeats him, with Thor's help, he tricks the Godkiller, causing Asgard to fall onto it, killing the Skrull. Thor and Bill then raise the city again.\n\nBill decides to hunt the cosmic entity Galactus, to avenge the destruction of the Korbinites' second homeworld, and the seeming eradication of his species. After a brief confrontation with the herald, Stardust, Bill is intercepted by the Silver Surfer, who is puzzled by the Korbinite's apparently futile quest to destroy Galactus. During a brief battle, Bill explains that while he understands he cannot hope to destroy Galactus with his power alone, he intends to destroy Galactus by annihilating any and all worlds Galactus seeks to feed from, thus starving him to death. The character's obsession with stopping Galactus eventually results in him being unable to lift his own enchanted weapon, an object that can only be wielded by the worthy. Equipped with alien weapons, Bill finds Galactus but discovers the entity already under attack by another race. In a moment of conscience, Bill saves Galactus. The grateful entity rewards Bill by creating a Korbinite mate for him, with Bill also regaining the ability to wield Stormbreaker.\n\nWhen the universe is invaded during \"The Thanos Imperative\" storyline, Beta Ray Bill joins Nova's select group to travel across the Fault and into the Cancerverse. Bill is recruited by Cosmo to join the Annihilators, a new super-group intended to replace the fallen Guardians of the Galaxy. The Annihilators defend Galador from the Dire Wraiths, resulting in a peace between the two groups who have been at war for generations. Later, when trying to end a conflict between warring factions of the Universal Church of Truth, the Annihilators are transported to a Church base on Earth and come into conflict with the Avengers.\n\nDuring the \"Death of the Inhumans\" miniseries, Medusa and the surviving Inhuman Royal Family members ask for Beta Ray Bill to help to confront the Kree and their Super-Inhuman Vox as well as rescuing Black Bolt from them. Beta Ray Bill agreed to help them. When they reach the location where Black Bolt is being attacked by Vox, Beta Ray Bill helps Black Bolt, and takes down Vox, who is revealed to be a brainwashed Maximus. He and the Inhuman Royal Family witness something on the Vox costume teleport Crystal away while also killing Maximus.\n\nBeta Ray Bill's life force and consciousness were transferred by scientists of his race into the body of an alien carnivorous equine-like beast that had been bionically restructured into a cyborg. Courtesy of highly advanced genetic engineering, the character possesses vast superhuman strength, speed, stamina and durability, and a highly extended lifespan. Beta Ray Bill is also a superior hand-to-hand combatant. His combat prowess is such that he was able to fight Thor, noted as one of the best hand-to-hand fighters in the Marvel Universe, to a standstill.\n\nBeta Ray Bill's weapon, Stormbreaker, also has the same properties as Thor's hammer, Mjolnir, and includes the ability to transform into a cane when struck upon the ground and return Bill to his unaltered Korbinite form. Bill also possesses the advanced and sentient warship \"Skuttlebutt\".\n\n\n\n\n\nSome of the characters appearances have been collected in trade paperbacks:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58615021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58615021", "title": "Biblioteca della Comunità Israelitica", "text": "Biblioteca della Comunità Israelitica\n\nThe Biblioteca della Comunità Israelitica was the library of the Jewish community of Rome, Italy. Established in the early 20th century, it housed approximately 7,000 rare or unique books and manuscripts dating back to at least the 16th century. According to the Central Registry of Looted Art, it was the most important Jewish library in Italy and one of the most important in the world. The contents of the library were looted by Nazi Germany shortly after the Raid of the Ghetto of Rome in October 1943, and have never been recovered. Two months later, the contents of the \"Collegio Rabbinico Italiano\", the Italian Rabbinical College's library located in the same building, were also looted; only part of the contents of the latter library have been recovered.\n\nThe Biblioteca della Comunità Israelitica was set up in the early 20th century in rooms above the Great Synagogue of Rome at Lungotevere De' Cenci. Its contents consisted of publications that had previously been held at one of the five synagogues of the Roman Ghetto or other locations in the Jewish community of Rome. The library of the Italian Rabbinical College, housed in the same building, had been transferred from Florence to Rome in the 1930s. The latter was a teaching library of almost 10,000 volumes.\n\nThe Biblioteca della Comunità Israelitica contained many rare or unique books and manuscripts, dating back to at least the 16th century. No complete catalogue exists, but visiting scholars compiled some specific lists during visits before the war. It is estimated that the library contained a quarter of all the work of the Sconcinos, Jewish Italian printers from the 16th century who later worked in Salonica and Constantinople, as well as 16th-century works by Daniel Bomberg, Alvise Bragadin, and Nicollet. The library contained approximately 7,000 volumes in all. A partial catalogue was compiled by Jewish Italian historian Isaiah Sonne in 1935, who classified the contents into texts printed by the Sconcinos, manuscripts, incunabula, 16th-century oriental copies printed in Constantinople, and special specimens. Sonne, however, complained that he was allowed to see only the second-best items in the library. The lack of a proper catalogue may have been inspired in part by a desire to protect the contents from destruction by the Catholic church which, historically, had done so before to Jewish publications.\n\nThe Central Registry of Looted Art quoted an expert, Attilio Milano, who stated in a letter that \"no other Italian Jewish library had so many priceless books and very few outside Italy exceeded it\".\n\nWith the surrender of Italy on 8 September 1943, Germany occupied northern and central Italy, including the Italian capital, Rome. The libraries of the Jewish community in Rome soon attracted German attention. According to an eyewitness, two uniformed men visited the Biblioteca della Comunità Israelitica and the Italian Rabbinical College library, located in the same building, on 30 September and 1 October 1943. One of the two introduced himself as a teacher of Hebrew at an institute in Berlin, most likely Johannes Pohl from the Institute for Study of the Jewish Question, who had fulfilled a similar role at the Jewish libraries in Amsterdam.\n\nAttempts were made to receive support from the Fascist Italian government to retain the contents of the libraries in Italy, but these received no sympathy there.\n\nOn 14 October 1943, two days before the raid on the Roman Ghetto, the contents of the Biblioteca della Comunità Israelitica and parts of the contents of the Rabbinical College library were taken away. The remainder of the contents of the Rabbinical College library were taken on 23 and 24 December 1943. A few isolated books and prints survived the looting either by being hidden by members of the community or overlooked by the Germans.\n\nUnder the control of the German military administration, the contents of the library were loaded onto two railway cars by an Italian company and sent to Germany via Switzerland. A letter by the Reichsleiter Rosenberg Taskforce (ERR) from 21 January 1944, most likely referring to the second load of loot, stated that it had been delivered to an institute in Frankfurt am Main. The priceless contents of the community library were of special interest to the Rosenberg organisation, and it had set up a special organisation, the \"Sonderkommando Italien\", for their activities in the country.\n\nThe records of the correspondence of the ERR were destroyed by a bombing raid on Berlin in November 1943. The Italian commission trying to locate the library contents came to the conclusion that the first train in October did not go to Frankfurt but to Berlin, which would explain why some of the contents of the second train were found after the war. None of the contents of the first train were ever recovered.\n\nOnly part of the contents of the Rabbinical College library was recovered in 1947, consisting of 20 incunabula. None of the material taken from the Biblioteca della Comunità Israelitica was ever recovered.\n\nThe most likely theory as to the fate of the library contents is that they were stored during the war in an area that became part of the postwar Occupation Zone of the Soviet Union. From there the contents were taken to the Soviet Union and could now possibly be located within the Russian Federation. Theories that the contents of the library were either destroyed during a bombing raid on the train transporting it to Germany, or in Germany itself, have been considered but discounted as less likely.\n\nIn 2002 the Italian government established a special commission to pursue the recovery of the contents of the library, carrying out research in a number of European countries. The commission looked into the possibility that the missing contents either went to Frankfurt, Berlin, or Frankfurt via Berlin. The Frankfurt option was seen as the less likely one as much of the looted books that had been stored there or at another deposit, at Hungen, also in Hesse, had fallen into the hands of American forces after the war and been returned, including prints from the Rabbinical College. It is estimated that that Nazi Germany looted up to 3 million books during World War II, of which 1.2 million were found at the end of the war at Hungen alone.\n\nThe more likely option was that the contents went to Berlin and either remained there or were evacuated to Ratibor, Silesia (now Racibórz, Poland), where, at either place, they would eventually have come under control of the Soviet Union.\n\nThe commission's research was complicated by the fact that two competing organisations existed in Nazi Germany which acquired looted Jewish publications with the aim of creating a library, the \"Amt Rosenberg\" (the ERR) and the \"Reichssicherheitshauptamt\" (the SS), the latter with the aim of using it as a source of information on their perceived enemy. As no records for the first transport of the loot are known to have survived, there is no certainty which of the two organisations received the two rail cars from October 1943. The commission's research in Russia was also hampered by the fact that certain archives were closed to it, such as the archive of the Russian Federal Security Service.\n\nThe lack of a proper catalogue has greatly hampered the recovery of the contents, as it is almost impossible to know what the library actually contained. In 1965, two Hebrew manuscripts with the stamp of the library were acquired by the Jewish Theological Seminary Library in New York, both of which were listed in the catalogue Sonne compiled in the 1930s. It is unclear how the manuscripts reached the United States and at what point after their cataloguing by Sonne in 1935 they were removed from the library. No details on the history of the two manuscripts between 1935 and 1965 could be established.\n\nThe ultimate fate of the library's contents remain a mystery, however, as all investigations, including that of the Italian government commission, have been inconclusive.\n"}
{"id": "52968860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52968860", "title": "Biodiversity loss", "text": "Biodiversity loss\n\nLoss of biodiversity or biodiversity loss is the extinction of species (plant or animal) worldwide, and also the local reduction or loss of species in a certain habitat.\n\nThe latter phenomenon can be temporary or permanent, depending on whether the environmental degradation that leads to the loss is reversible through ecological restoration / ecological resilience or effectively permanent (e.g. through land loss). Global extinction has so far been proven to be irreversible.\n\nEven though permanent global species loss is a more dramatic phenomenon than regional changes in species composition, even minor changes from a healthy stable state can have dramatic influence on the food web and the food chain insofar as reductions in only one species can adversely affect the entire chain (coextinction), leading to an overall reduction in biodiversity, possible alternative stable states of an ecosystem notwithstanding. Ecological effects of biodiversity are usually counteracted by its loss. Reduced biodiversity in particular leads to reduced ecosystem services and eventually poses an immediate danger for food security, also for humankind.\n\nThe current rate of \"global\" diversity loss is estimated to be 100 to 1000 times higher than the (naturally occurring) background extinction rate and expected to still grow in the upcoming years.\n\nLocally bounded loss rates can be measured using species richness and its variation over time. Raw counts may not be as ecologically relevant as relative or absolute abundances. Taking into account the relative frequencies, a considerable number of biodiversity indexes has been developed. Besides richness, evenness and heterogeneity are considered to be the main dimensions along which diversity can be measured.\n\nAs with all diversity measures, it is essential to accurately classify the spatial and temporal scope of the observation. \"Definitions tend to become less precise as the complexity\nof the subject increases and the associated spatial and temporal scales widen. Biodiversity itself is not a single concept but can be split up into various scales (e.g. ecosystem diversity vs. habitat diversity or even biodiversity vs. habitat diversity) or different subcategories (e.g. phylogenetic diversity, species diversity, genetic diversity, nucleotide diversity). The question of net loss in confined regions is often a matter of debate but longer observation times are generally thought to be beneficial to loss estimates.\n\nTo compare rates between different geographic regions latitudinal gradients in species diversity should also be considered.\n\nMajor factors for biotic stress and the ensuing accelerating loss rate are, amongst other threats:\n\n\nIn 2017, various publications describe the dramatic reduction in absolute insect biomass and number of species in Germany and North America over a period of 27 years. As possible reasons for the decline, the authors highlight neonicotinoids and other agrochemicals. Writing in the journal \"PLOS One\", authors Hallman, Sorg, et al (2017), conclude that \"the widespread insect biomass decline is alarming.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13938237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13938237", "title": "Capital punishment in Ireland", "text": "Capital punishment in Ireland\n\nCapital punishment in the Republic of Ireland was abolished in statute law in 1990, having been abolished in 1964 for most offences including ordinary murder. The last to be executed was Michael Manning, hanged for murder in 1954. All subsequent death sentences, the last handed down in 1985, were commuted by the President, on the advice of the Government, to terms of imprisonment of up to 40 years. The Twenty-first Amendment of the constitution, passed by referendum in 2001, prohibits the reintroduction of the death penalty, even during a state of emergency or war. Capital punishment is also forbidden by several human rights treaties to which the state is a party.\n\nEarly Irish law discouraged capital punishment. Murder was usually punished with two types of fine: a fixed \"éraic\" and a variable \"Log nEnech\"; a murderer was only killed if he and his relatives could not pay the fine. The \"Senchas Már\"'s description of the execution of the murderer of Saint Patrick's charioteer Odran has been interpreted as a failed attempt to replace pagan restorative justice with Christian retributive justice.\nAfter the Norman conquest of Ireland, English law provided the model for Irish law. This originally mandated a death sentence for any felony, a class of crimes established by common law but extended by various Acts of Parliament; a situation later dubbed the \"Bloody Code\". The gallows speech was a popular genre of broadside from the Williamite revolution through the eighteenth century, feeding into popular ballads of the nineteenth century.\n\nThe Criminal Law Act 1827 allowed judges to sentence to transportation for many hitherto capital crimes. For more, Peel's Acts in 1828 replaced the death penalty with penal servitude. The Capital Punishment (Ireland) Act 1842 brought the law in Ireland closer to that of England by reducing the penalties for numerous offences, and abolishing the capital crime of serving in the army or navy of France. The Offences Against the Person Act 1861 reduced the number of capital crimes from over two hundred to just three: murder, treason and piracy with violence. Death was a mandatory sentence for murder, though it was often commuted. The last public hanging in Ireland was in 1868; after the Capital Punishment Amendment Act 1868 executions were carried out behind prison walls. Irish doctor Samuel Haughton developed the humane \"Standard Drop\" method of hanging that came into use in 1866. The last peacetime execution while Ireland was part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland was of William Scanlan in 1911 for murdering his sister-in-law.\n\nExecution of Irish republicans created political martyrs, such as the \"Manchester Martyrs\" of 1867. The Prevention of Crime (Ireland) Act, 1882, was enacted during the Land War and introduced on the day of the funeral of Lord Frederick Cavendish, one of the Phoenix Park murder victims. This encouraged non-jury trials to impose death sentences, prompting Francis Alexander FitzGerald to resign in protest as baron of the exchequer. In fact no death sentence was passed under the provisions of that Act.\n\nIn 1916, the execution of the leaders of the Easter Rising turned public sympathy in favour of the rebels. 24 rebels were executed during the 1919–21 War of Independence, starting with Kevin Barry. In Munster, which was under martial law, 13 were shot in Cork and one in Limerick. \"The Forgotten Ten\" were hanged in Mountjoy Prison, which helped turn opinion in Dublin against the Dublin Castle administration. The last United Kingdom execution was of William Mitchell, an RIC constable who had murdered a justice of the peace.\n\nThe self-proclaimed Irish Republic, which fought the 1919–21 War against the British authorities, established its own republican courts. In summer 1920, when a County Meath republican court sentenced a man to death for murder, the sentence was referred to the Dáil ministry, which decided to uphold it, although Constance Markievicz was reluctant. The Irish Republican Army was empowered by the First Dáil to court-martial and execute pro-unionist civilians for such crimes as \"spying\" and collaboration. The procedures at such trials depended on the local IRA leadership; many were kangaroo courts imposing summary justice. Besides executions, IRA members also carried out combat operations, assassinations, extra-judicial killings, and personally motivated murders, with varying levels of sanction from the republican leadership; historians have commented that the dividing lines between these categories can be blurred and contentious; an example being the 1922 Dunmanway killings.\n\nThe 1922 committee drafting the Constitution of the Irish Free State submitted three drafts, of which Draft B explicitly prohibited the death penalty; the Provisional Government's final draft was based on Draft B but deleted this prohibition. British laws prescribing the death penalty thus continued in force. The death penalty was retained because of the outbreak of the 1922–3 Civil War. As well as the existing British laws, the \"Special Powers Act\" (adopted in the form of a motion rather than an act of parliament) was passed by the Third Dáil on 26 September 1922 authorising military tribunals to impose death sentences on the anti-Treaty forces. During the Civil War the Free State government executed 81 captured anti-Treaty fighters by firing squad, as well as ordering extra-judicial killings.\n\nBetween November 1923 and April 1954, there were a total of 35 executions in the state. In the 1920s, execution was relatively common for murderers. In the absence of a local executioner, the Irish government retained the pre-independence custom of having a British hangman come to Mountjoy Prison to perform executions. There was local opposition to this, and in the 1940s an Irishman sent to Britain as apprentice to Albert Pierrepoint was deemed to lack \"the character to be an executioner\". 55 men and women were also sentenced to death in that time period but ultimately received a reprieve. Thirteen were sentenced for murdering their newborns, and 42 for other types of murder.\n\nThe only woman executed after independence was Annie Walsh in 1925. She and her nephew blamed each other for the murder of her elderly husband. The press expected only the nephew to be found guilty, but both were. She was hanged aged 31 in spite of the jury recommending clemency.\n\nDuring the state of emergency in World War II, increased IRA activity led to six executions. Five were shot by firing squad after sentence by military tribunals under the Emergency Powers Act 1939. Of these, Maurice O'Neill and Richard Goss had shot but not killed Gardaí: the only people executed by the state for a non-murder crime. Charlie Kerins, the IRA Chief of Staff, executed for murdering a Garda, was hanged rather than shot, making the point of treating him as a common criminal rather than a political prisoner.\n\nHarry Gleeson, hanged in 1941 for the 1940 murder of Moll McCarthy, was granted a posthumous pardon in 2015. Seán MacBride was Gleeson's defence counsel and attributed his later opposition to the death penalty to his belief in Gleeson's innocence. Michael Manning was the last person executed in the state. He was hanged for murder by Albert Pierrepoint on 20 April 1954. The same year, Brendan Behan's play \"The Quare Fellow\" premiered, in which the title character was modelled on Bernard Kirwan, awaiting execution in Mountjoy while Behan was imprisoned there.\n\nThe 1922 \"Special Powers Act\" was replaced after the Civil War by a series of Public Safety Acts promoted by Cumann na nGaedheal governments to counter residual republican paramilitary activity. The 1923 act, valid for six months, allowed the death penalty for \"armed revolt against the Government of Saorstát Eireann\", whereas the 1924 act, valid for one year, reduced this to life imprisonment. The Treasonable Offences Act, 1925 defined such offences as treason punishable by death. The Public Safety Act 1927, passed in response to the assassination of Kevin O'Higgins, provided for a special military tribunal during a state of emergency, required the tribunal to pass death sentences for treason and murder, and permitted it to do so for unlawful possession of firearms; no appeal would be permitted. The Act was originally to last five years, but was expired at the end of 1928. In 1931, Eoin O'Duffy used the threat posed by Saor Éire to press for a new Public Safety Act, the Constitution (Amendment No. 17) Act 1931. This empowered the tribunal to try a variety of crimes and impose a greater sentence than usual, including death, if \"in the opinion of the Tribunal such greater punishment is necessary or expedient\". This provision was condemned by the Fianna Fáil opposition (which came to power following the 1932 general election) and was never invoked.\n\nFianna Fáil introduced a new Constitution in 1937, which contained several references to execution:\n\nInfanticide was made a separate crime from murder in 1949. Since independence, all 13 death sentences for murder in such cases had been commuted; the new act was intended \"to eliminate all the terrible ritual of the black cap and the solemn words of the judge pronouncing sentence of death in those cases ... where it is clear to the Court and to everybody, except perhaps the unfortunate accused, that the sentence will never be carried out.\" Most cases were not prosecuted as murder before 1949, and a murder charge was still possible after then.\n\nThe Criminal Justice Act 1951, in conformance with Article 13.6 of the Constitution, explicitly excluded capital cases from those to which the Government was granted the power to commute sentences.\n\nSuccessive Ministers for Justice were asked in the Dáil about abolishing the death penalty: in 1936 by Frank MacDermot; in 1939 by Jeremiah Hurley; in 1948 by James Larkin Jnr and Peadar Cowan; in 1956 by Thomas Finlay; in 1960 by Frank Sherwin; in 1962 by Stephen Coughlan. In each case the relevant minister dismissed the suggestion. Seán MacBride expressed personal support for abolition even while a minister in a government that oversaw the 1948 execution of William M. Gambon. In 1951–52, MacBride's Dáil motion that a Select Committee consider whether to abolish the death penalty was defeated by 63 votes to 23. In 1956, the Seanad passed a motion \"That in the opinion of Seanad Eireann the Government should consider the question of introducing legislation to abolish capital punishment or to suspend it for an experimental period\".\n\nWhen Seán Brady asked in February 1963, minister Charles Haughey announced \"that the death penalty for murder generally will be abolished but it will be retained for certain specific types of murder.\" In 1984 Haughey said, \"Very shortly after becoming minister for justice, I went up to Mountjoy to see the condemned cell and I was so revolted by the whole atmosphere that I resolved to do away with the death penalty.\" The Criminal Justice Act 1964 abolished the death penalty for piracy, some military crimes, and most murders. It continued to be available for:\n\nThe Extradition Act, 1965 prevented extradition where the prisoner could be sentenced to death for a crime not punishable by death in Ireland.\n\nThe meaning of \"capital murder\" under the 1964 act was elucidated by the Supreme Court in the 1977 case of Noel and Marie Murray, convicted of capital murder after the 1975 shooting of a Garda, who was off duty and not in uniform, giving chase after they had robbed a bank. The court held that \"capital murder\" was a new offence, not merely a subtype of the existing common-law offence of murder; and that the Garda was acting \"in the course of his duty\", despite not being on duty; but that, as he was in plain clothes, the Murrays did not know he was a Garda; and so, while there was intent (\"mens rea\") to commit murder, there was no intent to commit capital murder.\n\nFrom 1923 to 1964, 40 death sentences were commuted to life imprisonment; three condemned were found insane, and three died awaiting execution. Criminology professor Ian O'Donnell wrote in 2016 that murderers with commuted death sentences \"were released after periods of time that would be considered absurdly short today\". In the years 1946–62, 82 murders produced 73 arrests; of these 34 were unfit to plead because of insanity, 7 found guilty but insane, and 18 found guilty and thus mandatorily sentenced to death. The sentences were executed on 3 and commuted on the other 15, including all three women. Mamie Cadden was sentenced to be hanged in 1957 for felony murder after performing an illegal abortion on a woman who died.\n\nDeath sentences were passed on 11 people after the 1964 Act, for 5 different incidents involving the capital murder of a total of 6 Gardaí (police). All were imposed by the Special Criminal Court. The murders of several other gardaí, and of British ambassador Christopher Ewart-Biggs in 1976, might also have constituted capital crimes had any prosecution been brought. Of the 11 sentenced to death, 2 had the conviction for capital murder quashed on appeal, and were convicted instead of ordinary murder. The death sentences of the other 9 were commuted by the President on the advice of the government, to 40 years' imprisonment without parole. One conviction was overturned in 1995. The 40-year sentences were controversial, both because they had no statutory basis, and because they were not handed down by a judge. The Court of Criminal Appeal has upheld the sentences as the extra-judicial procedure is in step with the Irish Constitution's provision for commuting sentences.\n\nFour convicts were released in 1998 under the amnesty of political prisoners under the Good Friday Agreement. The remaining four protested that they were also eligible for the amnesty, but were not released under its provisions. The state refused to grant the standard remission of sentences due for good behaviour, which would make them eligible for parole after 30 years. One of the four, Noel Callan, took a court case that he was entitled to emission, which was rejected by the High Court in 2011, but upheld by the Supreme Court in 2013. Two of the four, who had already served over thirty years, were released straight away, while Callan and the fourth were released in December 2015 upon reaching 30 years.\n\nNoel Browne introduced a private member's bill to abolish the death penalty in March 1981. The Fianna Fáil government voted it down on its first reading. Fine Gael had supported the first reading and would have allowed a free vote at the second reading; the Labour Party supported abolition. The Troubles were then ongoing, and the Minister for Justice, Gerry Collins, in opposing the bill, referred to the four death sentences which were then pending appeal, and said \"were we to abolish [the death penalty], and because of the violence of recent years, the pressure for arming the Garda would become extremely strong\". After the general election in June 1981, the Fine Gael–Labour coalition introduced a bill in the Seanad to abolish the death penalty for treason and capital murder, which passed there but had not reached the Dáil when the government fell in January 1982. Another private member's bill, introduced by Shane Ross in 1984, began its second reading in 1985, but was still on the order paper in 1990. A 1986 Department of Foreign Affairs briefing made public in 2017 said:\n\nIn 1988, the Progressive Democrats (PDs) produced an aspirational \"Constitution for a New Republic\", which included a prohibition on capital punishment.\n\nIreland's 1989 ratification of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), effective 8 March 1990, made a reservation to Article 6(5). The Article reads \"Sentence of death shall not be imposed for crimes committed by persons below eighteen years of age and shall not be carried out on pregnant women.\" The Irish government's declaration read \"Pending the introduction of further legislation to give full effect to the provisions of paragraph 5 of Article 6, should a case arise which is not covered by the provisions of existing law, the Government of Ireland will have regard to its obligations under the Covenant in the exercise of its power to advise commutation of the sentence of death.\" The legislation referred to was the Child Care Bill 1988, which became law in 1991; a section was to have been included to raise from 17 to 18 the minimum age for the death penalty. In May 1989, Fianna Fáil minister Michael Woods stated:\n\nAfter the June 1989 general election, Fianna Fáil formed a coalition with the PDs; the agreed programme for government included abolishing the death penalty. It was abolished for all offences by the Criminal Justice Act 1990, which made life imprisonment the penalty for what had been capital crimes, and all except the military crimes had a minimum term of not less than forty years; remission rules are stricter than for other crimes. The Child Care Bill 1988 was still pending, so the section relating to the death penalty was removed as superfluous. In 1993, the then Tánaiste, Dick Spring, said in Vienna that the 1990 abolition should be made irreversible, which Taoiseach Albert Reynolds later confirmed was government policy and would involve a constitutional amendment. However, the government fell six months later.\n\nOne recommendation of the 1996 Constitutional Review Group was:\nArticle 40.4.5° prescribed the treatment of those under sentence of death; Article 28.3.3° deals with the suspension of rights during a state of emergency. On 7 June 2001, the Twenty-first Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland was one of three proposed amendments put to referendums. It added Article 15.5.2°, which prohibits the death penalty; deleted as redundant Article 40.4.5° and several other references to \"capital crimes\"; and amended Article 28.3.3° to prevent the death penalty being imposed during an emergency. The Referendum Commission produced an information booklet, with arguments for and against the amendment derived from submissions it had solicited from the public. The amendment was passed on a turnout of 34.79%, with 610,455 in favour and 372,950 against. The 38% no-vote was higher than the 28% predicted by polls; there were suggestions that the wording of the ballot question was confusing and that some voters were expressing dissatisfaction with the government.\n\nIreland adopted the Second Optional Protocol to the ICCPR in 1993, and the Sixth Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) in 1994, both of which prohibit the death penalty in peacetime. The reservation to ICCPR Article 6(5) was withdrawn in 1994. Ireland ratified the Thirteenth Protocol to the ECHR, which prohibits the death penalty in wartime, at its opening in 2002.\n\nThe media occasionally reports calls to reconsider the ban on capital punishment. In November 2009, Richard Johnson, recently retired as President of the High Court, said that he favoured reintroduction of the death penalty in limited circumstances, such as murder committed during armed robberies. The Irish Council for Civil Liberties described his remarks as \"deeply misguided and frivolous\". At the January 2010 meeting of the Mid-West Regional Authority, two members of Clare County Council called for \"a public debate\" on the death penalty. In June 2010, Kevin Kiely, then outgoing mayor of Limerick, advocated the death penalty for \"anyone involved in the planning and premeditation of a murder\" in the aftermath of several gang-related murders.\n\nThe National Party, a right-wing group established in 2016, supports reintroduction of the death penalty for \"particularly heinous crimes\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20261645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20261645", "title": "Capital punishment in Turkey", "text": "Capital punishment in Turkey\n\nCapital punishment has been abolished in Turkey as of 2004, and Turkey has not executed any prisoners since October 1984.\n\nPrior to 1984, executions would usually happen after military interventions. Adnan Menderes, who served as Prime Minister was hanged on 17 September 1961 following the 1960 coup d'état, along with two other cabinet members, Fatin Rüştü Zorlu and Hasan Polatkan. The student leaders Deniz Gezmiş, Hüseyin İnan and Yusuf Aslan were hanged on 6 May 1972 after the 1971 military memorandum. Following the 1980 coup d'état, between 1980 and 1984, a total of 50 men, including 27 political activists, were executed by Turkish authorities.\n\nTwenty-four articles of the 1926 Turkish Penal Code (Law 765) provided for a mandatory death penalty, 19 of them for crimes against the state, the government, the Constitution and military, and a further ten for criminal offenses like murder and rape. These 24 articles defined a total of 29 offenses.\n\nUnder Article 12 of Law 765, death sentences were to be carried out by hanging after being approved by act of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (\"Türkiye Büyük Millet Meclisi\"), or the TBMM. Within TBMM they were reviewed by the Judicial Committee before being voted on by parliament as a whole. This decision had to be ratified by the President, who had the power to commute death sentences on grounds of age or ill-health.\n\nBy Law 4771 of 9 August 2002 (the 3rd Package for Harmonization with the European Union) the death penalty was abolished for peace time offences. Law 5218 of 14 July 2004 abolished the death penalty for all times. Turkey ratified Protocol No. 13 to the European Convention on Human Rights, overseen by the Council of Europe, in February 2006.\n\nAfter the failed 2016 coup d'état, some politicians are talking about restoring the death penalty. \nErdogan, President of Turkey since 2014, has announced (29 October 2016) that the Government (PM Binali Yıldırım, Yıldırım Cabinet) will present a draft law restoring the death penalty to the Turkish Parliament (\"and I will countersign it\").\n\nOn 19th March 2017, Erdogan said he would immediately approve the reinstatement of capital punishment after the upcoming constitutional referendum. However, this has not yet happened.\n\nThe death sentence was replaced by aggravated life imprisonment (\"ağırlaştırılmış müebbet hapis cezası\"). According to Article 9 of Law 5275 on the Execution of Sentences these prisoners are held in individual cells in high security prisons and are allowed to exercise in a neighbouring yard one hour per day.\n"}
{"id": "29410166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29410166", "title": "Carrion insects", "text": "Carrion insects\n\nCarrion insects are those insects associated with decomposing remains. The processes of decomposition begin within a few minutes of death. Decomposing remains offer a temporary, changing site of concentrated resources which are exploited by a wide range of organisms, of which arthropods are often the first to arrive and the predominant exploitive group. However, not all arthropods found on or near decomposing remains will have an active role in the decay process.\n\nCarrion insects are commonly described based on their ecological role. Four commonly described roles are:\n\nNecrophagous species are insects/arthropods that feed directly on remains, or the fluids released from remains during the decomposition process. This ecological classification includes many species of the order Diptera (true flies) from the families Calliphoridae (blowflies)and Sarcophagidae (flesh flies), and some species of the order Coleoptera (beetles). Although specific arthropod species present at remains will vary by geographic location, some examples of common blowflies are \"Calliphora vicina\", \"Phormia regina\", \"Protophormia terraenovae\" and \"Lucilia sericata\"\n\nNecrophagous blowfly species are often the first to arrive and colonize at a site of decomposing remains. These species develop from eggs laid directly on the carcass and complete their life cycle on or near the remains. Because of this, necrophagous species are considered to be the most important for post-mortem interval estimations. The initial colonizers of greatest importance are those of the family Calliphoridae, Sarcophagidae and Muscidae (house flies), as these are typically the first insects to lay eggs at remains.\n\nThe fresh stage of decomposition is characterized by the arrival of necrophagous blowflies and flesh flies. These blowflies are also strongly attracted during the bloat stage of decomposition. Many Dipterans, especially their larval forms, are involved in removal of material from the carcass, though not in an appreciable amount. Necrophagous species of Coleoptera are most strongly attracted during the active stage of decomposition.\n\nThis role includes those insects which feed on, or act as parasites of, necrophagous species. These insects do not feed directly on the decomposing remains or its fluids, but are considered to be the second most forensically important ecological role. Predators of necrophagous insects include species from the Coleoptera families Silphidae (carrion beetles) and Staphylinidae (rove beetles). Parasites may include species of parasitic wasps, from the order Hymenoptera (family Braconidae).\n\nSome species of blowflies may begin their larval development in the necrophagous role, feeding directly on remains, but become predaceous during later larval stages. These species are listed as being schizophagous, and are included in the predators and parasites ecological role.\n\nThe majority of beetles present at remains are there as predators of blowfly larvae, and are not directly concerned with the removal of carcass materials. Predaceous beetles may arrive at a site of remains as early as the bloat stage of decomposition, when there is a strong attraction of their necrophagous prey. Some of these species may also remain during active decay. During the advanced stage of decay there is an increase in those insects which are predaceous and/or parasitic on necrophagous beetles.\n\nOmnivorous species feed on both the decomposing remains as well as other carrion associated insects, usually necrophagous species. Large numbers of omnivorous insects can slow the rate at which carcass materials are removed by depleting the number of necrophagous larvae. This category includes species of ants, wasps, and some species of carrion beetles.\n\nAdventive species may or may not play a significant role in the decomposition of remains. Arthropods in this ecological role are not necessarily attracted to decaying remains, but use it as an extension of their natural habitats. Adventive species originate within the vegetation and soils surrounding decomposing remains. These insects may visit remains from time to time, or use them for concealment, but their presence can only be accounted for by chance. They may also become predators of necrophagous species found at remains. Adventive species include springtails, centipedes and spiders.\n\nThe diagram below shows the relationship between each ecological role and a site of decaying remains.\n\nThe ecological roles described above can further be condensed into two broad, general classifications:\n\nThis classification consists of necrobiont insects which use decaying remains as a permanent environment necessary for their life and development. Necrobiont insects includes necrophagous and entomophagous trophic specializations, or necrophagous, predaceous/parasitic and omnivorous species.\n\nSome insects or arthropods visit sites of carrion, but do not colonize them. This classification consists of those insects for which decomposing remains are not a permanent feature for development. The adventive trophic specialization falls into this category.\n\nEach group or species of insect will be attracted to decomposing remains at different stages of decomposition, as changes within the remains result in the availability of different resources. The predictable order in which the above described insect groups are attracted to and observed on remains is referred to as a succession pattern, and can be used in forensic investigations to estimate the post-mortem interval (PMI) or time since death. This method of PMI estimation is most useful in the later stages of decomposition.\n\nA second method of PMI determination, in early stages of decomposition, by insect evidence utilizes the development rate of colonizing arthropods. This method is usually applied to necrophagous blowflies, as they are often the first to colonize and are associated with remains for the longest period. Development rates are only useful in forensic investigations until the first new generation has completed development and left the remains.\n"}
{"id": "2571276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2571276", "title": "Computational genomics", "text": "Computational genomics\n\nComputational genomics (often referred to as Computational Genetics) refers to the use of computational and statistical analysis to decipher biology from genome sequences and related data, including both DNA and RNA sequence as well as other \"post-genomic\" data (i.e., experimental data obtained with technologies that require the genome sequence, such as genomic DNA microarrays). These, in combination with computational and statistical approaches to understanding the function of the genes and statistical association analysis, this field is also often referred to as Computational and Statistical Genetics/genomics. As such, computational genomics may be regarded as a subset of bioinformatics and computational biology, but with a focus on using whole genomes (rather than individual genes) to understand the principles of how the DNA of a species controls its biology at the molecular level and beyond. With the current abundance of massive biological datasets, computational studies have become one of the most important means to biological discovery.\n\nThe roots of computational genomics are shared with those of bioinformatics. During the 1960s, Margaret Dayhoff and others at the National Biomedical Research Foundation assembled databases of homologous protein sequences for evolutionary study. Their research developed a phylogenetic tree that determined the evolutionary changes that were required for a particular protein to change into another protein based on the underlying amino acid sequences. This led them to create a scoring matrix that assessed the likelihood of one protein being related to another.\n\nBeginning in the 1980s, databases of genome sequences began to be recorded, but this presented new challenges in the form of searching and comparing the databases of gene information. Unlike text-searching algorithms that are used on websites such as Google or Wikipedia, searching for sections of genetic similarity requires one to find strings that are not simply identical, but similar. This led to the development of the Needleman-Wunsch algorithm, which is a dynamic programming algorithm for comparing sets of amino acid sequences with each other by using scoring matrices derived from the earlier research by Dayhoff. Later, the BLAST algorithm was developed for performing fast, optimized searches of gene sequence databases. BLAST and its derivatives are probably the most widely used algorithms for this purpose.\n\nThe emergence of the phrase \"computational genomics\" coincides with the availability of complete sequenced genomes in the mid-to-late 1990s. The first meeting of the Annual Conference on Computational Genomics was organized by scientists from The Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR) in 1998, providing a forum for this speciality and effectively distinguishing this area of science from the more general fields of Genomics or Computational Biology. The first use of this term in scientific literature, according to MEDLINE abstracts, was just one year earlier in Nucleic Acids Research. The final Computational Genomics conference was held in 2006, featuring a keynote talk by Nobel Laureate Barry Marshall, co-discoverer of the link between Helicobacter pylori and stomach ulcers. As of 2014, the leading conferences in the field include Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology (ISMB) and Research in Computational Molecular Biology (RECOMB).\n\nThe development of computer-assisted mathematics (using products such as Mathematica or Matlab) has helped engineers, mathematicians and computer scientists to start operating in this domain, and a public collection \nof case studies and demonstrations is growing, ranging from whole genome comparisons to gene expression analysis. This has increased the introduction of different ideas, including concepts from systems and control, information theory, strings analysis and data mining. It is anticipated that computational approaches will become and remain a standard topic for research and teaching, while students fluent in both topics start being formed in the multiple courses created in the past few years.\n\nContributions of computational genomics research to biology include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47564957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47564957", "title": "Death of Ambrose Ball", "text": "Death of Ambrose Ball\n\nAmbrose 'Jay' Ball, a father from London, went missing in January 2015 after his car was involved in a road traffic collision. Despite an extensive police search, no trace of him was found until three months later, when his body was found in the River Lea in Tottenham, London. A Facebook campaign, launched to encourage witnesses to come forward, received threats from people warning his family and friends to stop asking questions. Despite the threats, along with a report made at Colindale police station in north London, the Metropolitan police have never followed these reports up.\n\nAn inquest into Ball's death commenced in April 2015 and was adjourned, \"on grounds a person may be charged with homicide and to allow police to continue their investigations\", after police told the coroner Ball's death was, \"unexplained\". The inquest is due to resume on 24 August 2015.\n\nAmbrose Ball (also known as Jay) was a 30-year-old father of two children. He went out with a friend to The Fox public house in Green Lanes, Palmers Green in north London, and was allegedly involved in a fight at the pub. His car was seen being driven along from the pub towards Tottenham. Shortly after 3am on Saturday 24 January 2015, a member of the public reported seeing Ball's BMW collide with a central reservation. The car lost one of its front wheels in the collision.\n\nFollowing the road traffic collision, the driver was seen leaving the car by a witness. Ambrose Ball was not seen again by his family, friends or police until his body was found in the River Lea, three months later. In February 2015, police conducted a fruitless, three-day marine and finger-tip search of the area, including the River Lea and Walthamstow Wetlands, looking for Ball. Air units, dog teams and ground officers took part in the search.\n\nOn 22 April 2015, a body was discovered in the River Lea and later recovered by police. On 26 April 2015, the body was confirmed to be that of missing Ambrose Ball. His body was so badly decomposed that an initial post-mortem was inconclusive.\n\nBall's aunt, Alexandria Harrison, claimed that his body was discovered by police the day after officers working on Ball's disappearance visited someone in prison.\n\nAt the end of April 2015, the inquest into Ball's death began. The police asked the coroner, Andrew Walker, for an adjournment saying they could not rule out third-party involvement in Ball's \"unexplained\" death and they also needed time to perform CT scans and diatom analysis (used when bodies have lain in water for some time). The coroner agreed to adjourn the inquest until 24 August 2015 on the \"grounds a person may be charged with homicide and to allow police to continue their investigations\". The coroner assured Ball's concerned family saying, \"I can assure you we are independent of the police in this matter\".\n\nAt the adjournment the coroner released Ambrose Ball's body to his family who had commissioned an independent autopsy. After the adjournment, Ball's mother Ruth Lovell said, \"His body was dumped in that river, I am sure of that\".\n\nAt an inquest hearing in January 2016, an expert witness testified that the presence of diatoms made it most likely that Ball had drowned. Another witness testified that he had seen a man walking around dazed and \"being ushered into another car\" by two men. Ball's mother answered \"Yes\" when asked whether she believed he had been murdered at The Fox pub.\n\nThe family launched a Facebook campaign appealing for witnesses to come forward. The appeal received threats from people warning Ball's family and other campaigners to stop asking questions about Ambrose Ball's death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2900436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2900436", "title": "Derek Humphry", "text": "Derek Humphry\n\nDerek Humphry (born 29 April 1930) is a British-born American journalist and author notable as a proponent of legal assisted suicide and the right to die philosophy. In 1980, he co-founded the Hemlock Society and, in 2004, after that organization dissolved, he co-founded the Final Exit Network. From 1988 to 1990, he was president of the World Federation of Right to Die Societies and is the current president of the Euthanasia Research & Guidance Organization (ERGO).\n\nHe is the author several related books, including \"Jean's Way\" (1978), \"The Right to Die: Understanding Euthanasia\" (1986), and \"Final Exit: The Practicalities of Self-Deliverance and Assisted Suicide for the Dying\" (1991).\n\nSince 1978, Derek Humphry has lived in the United States.\n\nBorn to a British father and an Irish mother, he was raised in Somerset. His education was slender because of a broken home followed by World War II, when many English schools were in chaos, finally leaving at the age of 15, when he became a messenger boy for the \"Yorkshire Post\". In a 30-year journalistic career Humphry worked and wrote for the \"Bristol Evening World\", the \"Manchester Evening News\", the \"Daily Mail\", the \"Sunday Times\" and, lastly, the \"Los Angeles Times\".\n\nHis first wife, Jean Humphry, ended her life on 29 March 1975, in The Cotswolds with her husband at her side, with an intentional overdose of medication; she was suffering from terminal breast cancer. He told that story from his perspective in the best-selling \"Jean's Way\". Derek and Jean Humphry had three sons, the youngest one an adoptee.\n\nHumphry wrote the 1991 suicide handbook, \"Final Exit\". From 1993 onwards Humphry has been president of the Euthanasia Research & Guidance Organization (ERGO), and chairs the advisory board of the new Final Exit Network (formed 2004 to replace the Hemlock Society dissolved the previous year in mergers).\n\nHis marriage to his next wife, Ann Wickett, an American and a co-founder of the Hemlock Society, ended in 1989 when she filed for divorce; they had no children. Ann Wickett committed suicide, at the age of 49 on 2 October 1991, during a recurrence of depression and Borderline Personality Disorder. She had been battling breast cancer, but the cancer was in remission and she was not considered \"terminally ill\". In her suicide note, she claimed that Humphry was a \"killer\" and that his first wife, Jean, had died of suffocation. He denied these allegations as groundless.\n\nIn early 1990 Humphry married Gretchen Crocker, youngest daughter of an Oregon farming family.\n\nHumphry is an advisor to the World Federation of Right to Die Societies by virtue of his past presidency and in appreciation of his 26 years of involvement with that organization. Since it was founded in 2004, Humphry has been an adviser to the Final Exit Network. After four members of the organization were accused in Georgia of assisting a suicide he launched the Final Exit Liberty Fund which paid most of their legal costs.\n\nIn 2014 Derek Humphry was given the World Federation of Right To Die Societies \"Lifetime Achievement Award\" for 'contributing so much, so long and so courageously to our right to a peaceful death. The award was presented by world president Faye Girsh at the 20th international conference in Chicago on 9/19/2014. It is the first time this award has been made.\n\nHumphry was newsletter editor for the World Federation of Right to Die Societies for a number of years.\n\nAs of 2016, the paperback \"Final Exit\" was in print in English, Spanish and Italian. It has sold more than one million copies in twelve languages since 1991. In April 2007 the editors and book critics of \"USA Today\" selected \"Final Exit\" as one of the most memorable 25 books of the last quarter century.\nIn 2017 he published his life story, \"Good Life, Good Death: The Memoir of a Right To Die Pioneer\" (Carrel Books, New York. )\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38801093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38801093", "title": "Dialectical monism", "text": "Dialectical monism\n\nDialectical monism, also known as dualistic monism, is an ontological position that holds that reality is ultimately a unified whole, distinguishing itself from monism by asserting that this whole necessarily expresses itself in dualistic terms. For the dialectical monist, the essential unity is that of complementary polarities, which, while opposed in the realm of experience and perception, are co-substantial in a transcendent sense.\n\nTo establish its premises, dialectical monism may posit a Universal Dialectic, which is seen as the fundamental principle of existence. The concept is similar to that of the Taiji or \"Supreme Ultimate\" in Taoism, the \"Purusha-Prakriti\" in Samkhya, and duality-in-unity of Shiva-Shakti in Tantra. Advocates assert that Taoism as well as some forms of Buddhism are based on an approach consistent with or identical to dialectical monism.\n\nIdeas relating to \"teleological evolution\" are important in some progressive interpretations of dialectical monism. However, this element has not always been present historically, and is generally not present in contemporary dialectical monisms such as Taoism. It is important to note that teleological tendencies in dialectical monism can significantly differ from other variants of teleology if dialectical progression is linked to materialism, because such an interpretation is a naturalistic progression rather than a result of design or consciousness. However, non-materialistic philosophies exist that also are dialectical monisms, such as Actual Idealism.\n\nSome variants of dialectical monism adhere to the view that all conditions exist at all times in unity, and our consciousness separates them into dualistic forms. Other views maintain that the nature of dialectical synthesis dictates that the flow of change will tend toward a \"spiral-shaped progression\" rather than a perpetual non-progressive (repetitive) circling of history. For these dialectical monists, this explains the fact of physical self-organization in Nature, as well as the observed tendency for human societies to achieve gradual \"progress\" over time. These teleological variants may be referred to as \"progressive dialectical monism.\"\n\nAs a monism, dialectical monism is opposed to traditional dualism despite its emphasis on \"twoness.\" In dialectical monism, the appearance of duality is seen as arising from the mind's need to impose divisions and boundaries upon an essentially unified whole. Thus, for the dialectical monist, reality is ultimately one but can only be \"experienced\" in terms of division.\n\nFurthermore, dialectical monism might also be termed \"plural monism,\" for it recognizes the dependently originated existence of a multiplicity of entities, which Taoism calls \"the ten thousand things.\" Dialectical monism does not deny that the plurality of things in existence are \"real,\" but points out that physical reality itself is mind-dependent. (see Taoism and Zen).\n\nDialectical monism has been mentioned in Western literature, although infrequently. Jean-Paul Sartre used the term on at least one occasion. Sartre may have used the term \"dialectical monism\" to when inferring what he saw as absurd in the dogma of a Marxist–Leninist non-dualistic interpretation of the dialectic, in which any oppositional view point was claimed to be non-dialectical rather than part of the dialectic itself.\n\nAlthough the term has never been used outside the West, advocates maintain that dialectical monism has a much greater presence in Eastern traditions. A wide number of Taoist sources are cited, especially those that relate to the Taiji or yin and yang concepts. In addition, several Buddhist works are seen as containing strong elements of dialectical monism.\n\nThe Heart Sutra provides a notable expression of dialectical monism:\n\n\"Form is emptiness; emptiness also is form. Emptiness is no other than form; form is no other than emptiness.\"\n\nHowever, it is sometimes held that the Buddhist elements of dialectical monism are more accurately characterized as non-dualistic since they deny any fundamental sort of creative principle or \"one thing,\" such as that posited by dialectical monism. See the Buddhist philosophy of emptiness.\n\nIn response, dialectical monists might reply that theirs is a \"positive expression of nondualism,\" as opposed to the \"negative\" expression implied by the qualifier \"non\" in nondualism.\n\nNagarjuna, principal developer of the emptiness doctrine in Buddhism, had a perspective consistent with a broad dialectical monism that was based on the following statement attributed to the Buddha:\n\n\"By and large, Kaccayana, this world is supported by a polarity, that of existence and non-existence. But when one sees the origination of the world as it actually is with right discernment, 'non-existence' with reference to the world does not occur to one. When one sees the cessation of the world as it actually is with right discernment, 'existence' with reference to the world does not occur to one.\"\n\nHeraclitus is a notable early exception to the Eastern monopoly on dialectical monism:\n\n\"By cosmic rule, as day yields night, so winter summer, war peace, plenty famine. All things change. Fire penetrates the lump of myrrh, until the joining bodies die and rise again in smoke called incense.\" (fragment 36) \n\"Men do not know how that which is drawn in different directions harmonises with itself. The harmonious structure of the world depends upon opposite tension like that of the bow and the lyre.\"\n\nOne must realize that war is shared and Conflict is Justice, and that all things come to pass in accordance with conflict.— Cited by Origen, \"Contra Celsum\" VI.28 \"(Diels-Kranz fragment 80)\"\nThe way up and down are the same.— Cited by Hippolytus of Rome, \"Refutatio Omnium Haeresium\" IX.10.4 \"(Diels-Kranz fragment 60)\nIt is wise, not listening to me but to the report (λόγος), to agree that all things are one.— Cited by Hippolytus, \"Refutatio\" IX.9.1 \"(Diels-Kranz fragment 50)\"\n\nIn its article on Aztec philosophy, the \"Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" describes Aztec (Nahua) metaphysics as a form of dialectical monism:\n\nAlthough essentially processive and devoid of any permanent order, the ceaseless becoming of the cosmos is nevertheless characterized by an overarching balance, rhythm, and regularity: one provided by and constituted by \"teotl\"... Dialectical polar monism holds that: (1) the cosmos and its contents are substantively and formally identical with \"teotl\"; and (2) \"teotl\" presents itself primarily as the ceaseless, cyclical oscillation of polar yet complementary opposites.\n\"Teotl's\" process presents itself in multiple aspects, preeminent among which is duality. This duality takes the form of the endless opposition of contrary yet mutually interdependent and mutually complementary polarities that divide, alternately dominate, and explain the diversity, movement, and momentary arrangement of the universe. These include: being and not-being, order and disorder, life and death, light and darkness, masculine and feminine, dry and wet, hot and cold, and active and passive. Life and death, for example, are mutually arising, interdependent, and complementary aspects of one and the same process.\n\nChapter 42 of the \"Dao De Jing\" outlines a number-based cosmology that may be consistent with dialectical monism:\n\n\"The Tao produced One; One produced Two; Two produced Three; Three produced All things. All things leave behind them the Obscurity (out of which they have come), and go forward to embrace the Brightness (into which they have emerged), while they are harmonised by the Breath of Vacancy.\"\n\"What men dislike is to be orphans, to have little virtue, to be as carriages without naves; and yet these are the designations kings and princes use for themselves. So it is that some things are increased by being diminished, and others are diminished by being increased.\"\n\nSeveral other chapters (including Chapter 1) make reference to concepts consistent with dialectical monism.\n\n\"Really, the fundamental, ultimate mystery - the only thing you need to know to understand the deepest metaphysical secrets - is this: that for every outside there is an inside and for every inside there is an outside, and although they are different, they go together.\" \n— Alan Watts\n\n\"... for there is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.\" \n— William Shakespeare, \"Hamlet\". Act II, scene ii 245As Shakespeare in several places borrows directly from the Bible, he may have been paraphrasing Saint Paul:\"I am convinced, being fully persuaded in the Lord Jesus, that nothing is unclean in itself. But if anyone regards something as unclean, then for that person it is unclean.\" Romans 14:14\n\nIn a more contemporary area, the idea of dialectical monism is expressed in the central book of Thelema, \"Liber AL vel Legis\":\n\n\"None... and two. For I am divided for love's sake, for the chance of union. This is the creation of the world, that the pain of division is as nothing, and the joy of dissolution all.\"\n— \"Liber AL vel Legis\", ch. 1, verses 28-30\n\n\"The world exists as two, for only so can there be known the Joy of Love, whereby are Two made One. Aught that is One is alone, and has little pain in making itself two, that it may know itself, and love itself, and rejoice therein.\"\n— Aleister Crowley, \"The Comment Called D\"\n\nIn Thelema, the transcendent unity is often referred to as \"None\" or \"Nothing\":\n\n\"By Light shall ye look upon yourselves, and behold All Things that are in Truth One Thing only, whose name hath been called No Thing...\"\n—Aleister Crowley, \"De Lege Libellum\"\n\n\"... let it be ever thus; that men speak not of Thee as One but as None; and let them speak not of thee at all, since thou art continuous!\"\n—\"Liber AL vel Legis\", ch. 1, verse 27\n\n\"It is dualist because it is monist. Marx’s ontological monism consisted in affirming the irreducibility of Being to thought, and, at the same time, in reintegrating thoughts with the real as a particular form of human activity.\" \n\n—Jean-Paul Sartre, \"Critique of Dialectical Reason\", Vol. 1. Theory of Practical Ensembles\n\nIn Sartre's seminal work, the \"Critique of Dialectical Reason\", it is shown how the essential dualism of Marx corresponds to a heightened synthesis, referring to totality, which is the monism that grounds the theses and antitheses of Marxism.\n\n\"The Universe, which controls all life, has a female and male balance that prevalent throughout our Sacred Grandmother, the Earth. This balance has to be acknowledged and become the determining factor in all of one’s decisions, be they spiritual, social, healthful, educational or economical.\" \n—Russell Means\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45204000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45204000", "title": "Disappearance of Jim Thompson", "text": "Disappearance of Jim Thompson\n\nJames Harrison Wilson \"Jim\" Thompson (born 21 March 1906) was an American businessman who helped revitalise the Thai silk industry in the 1950s and 1960s. He co-founded the Thai Silk Company in 1948.\n\nThe son of a prominent Delaware family, Thompson graduated from Princeton University in 1928 and studied architecture at the University of Pennsylvania. From 1931 to 1940, he worked as an architect in New York City, designing homes for East Coast high society. In 1941, Thompson quit his job and enlisted with the Delaware National Guard, serving as an operative in the Office of Strategic Services (the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency) during World War II. After the war, he was assigned to the U.S. legation in Bangkok, Thailand. He embarked on his silk weaving career after leaving the military in 1946. \n\nThompson disappeared from Malaysia's Cameron Highlands while going for a walk on Sunday, 26 March 1967. Prior to his disappearance, he left Bangkok to spend a day in Penang with Constance \"Connie\" Mangskau, his long-time acquaintance. On Friday, 24 March, they headed for the Highlands to holiday at the ”Moonlight” bungalow (now the Jim Thompson cottage). Their hosts were Dr. Ling Tien Gi, a Singaporean-Chinese chemist, and Mrs. Helen Ling (née Dalling), his Caucasian American-born wife.\n\nOn Sunday, all four got up early to attend the morning services at All Souls’ Church. While the rest were preparing themselves for the service, Thompson informed them he would be taking a walk down \"Jalan Kamunting\", the bungalow's access road.\n\nThe Easter services lasted for more than an hour. When it ended at noon, the group returned to ”Moonlight” for lunch. At 1:30 pm, he left the bungalow for an afternoon stroll. Before leaving, he waved goodbye to Mrs. Ling and Mrs. Mangskau. They saw him depart the estate via the only access road, Jalan Kamunting.\n\nThompson was in the \"Kamunting\" precinct for more than two hours. At around 4 pm, a cook from the Lutheran Mission bungalow () saw him when he visited the chalet. He did not stay, but failed to return to \"Moonlight\" () before 6 pm.\n\nAn intense search was conducted after the police declared he was lost. More than 500 people were involved in the hunt. They included the army, the Malaysian police field force, Orang Asli trekkers, Gurkhas, reward hunters, tourists, residents, mystics, scouts, missionaries, adventure seekers, American school students and British servicemen convalescing at the resort. At the end of the hunt, Thompson was not to be found, and no clues were unearthed. The official search lasted for 11 days, and sporadic additional searching went on for months.\n\nThe case generated worldwide publicity and intense speculation, with most press reports and analysts contending that Thompson had been kidnapped (although no ransom note was forthcoming); had been murdered (although no body was ever found); had voluntarily left to do secret work in resolving the Vietnam conflict (although no evidence was presented); or was eliminated by business rivals (although no evidence on this emerged).\n\nOne researcher believes the clue to Thompson's mystery may lie in some bone fragments that were found at the Cameron Highlands in 1985.\n\nThe remains, without the skull, were discovered by Orang Asli settlers in a grave at the edge of a vegetable plot off the main road in Brinchang.\n\nCaptain Philip J. Rivers, a master mariner, said he learned of the discovery from a health officer while researching Thompson's disappearance in 2007. The police collected the fragments but no connection was made to Thompson's disappearance in Tanah Rata, as they were found in Brinchang.\n\n\"The probability is that his body lay undiscovered in the thick under bush, hidden in an unmarked grave after a hit-and-run accident. A DNA on the bones might possibly provide a fuller answer,\" said Rivers at a lecture organised by the Perak Academy in Ipoh, Perak, West Malaysia on Friday, 26 March 2010.\n\nTo date, there has been no confirmation that the bones belong to Thompson. According to Rivers, however, “the bones are presently kept in a safe and secure place\".\n\nIn 2015 an analysis, report and four news articles were done (by Llewellyn (\"Lew\") Toulmin, see news articles and external links, below) of the 1967 search for Jim Thompson from a search and rescue (SAR) and scientific point of view. This analysis drew on interviews with a leader of and participants in the search; on interviews with other actors; on principles and mathematical formulae developed by the US National Association for Search and Rescue (NASAR); on reviews of FBI, CIA and US Department of State material on the case and on Thompson; and on various other sources.\n\nThis analysis concluded that:\n\n\nThe Toulmin report concludes that the probability (but not certainty) is that Thompson's remains are still in the Cameron Highlands, and that a possible way to move the case forward is to use proven SAR techniques of detailed scenario development, \"Mattson voting,\" and human remains detection (HRD) or \"cadaver\" dogs. (Mattson voting is a standard SAR technique in which SAR field staff (and/or experts on a case) rank search segments (areas to be searched, developed in the scenario development phase) using a secret ballot, in priority order. These individual rankings are then summed and the group results used to allocate SAR resources.)\n\nThe Toulmin analysis also reviewed the brutal, still unsolved murder of Jim Thompson's sister, in Chester County, PA, just a few months after Thompson disappeared. The analysis drew on an interview with the Pennsylvania State Police cold case officer; on a review of the wills and estate administrations of Thompson, his sister, and his sister's son; on interviews with neighbours and residents; and on contemporary (1967) news sources. The analysis concluded there is no provable link between the Jim Thompson disappearance and the murder of his sister; that the two cases are unlikely to be related; and that several persons of interest (POIs) can be named but there is no proof against any of them.\n\nThe Toulmin report (see External Links below) contains over 500 pages of primary source material on the Jim Thompson disappearance and the murder of his sister; this is the only such compilation available. The material includes CIA, OSS, FBI and US Department of State material, maps of the search area, 200 pages of previously unpublished letters from Thompson to a former lover and fellow art collector, detailed interviews with various actors, photos and exact lat/longs of all the key locations (including possible witness locations), and other items.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17302955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17302955", "title": "Edward Buncombe", "text": "Edward Buncombe\n\nEdward Buncombe (1742–1778) was a plantation owner from the Province of North Carolina who served as a colonel in the Continental Army (the army of the Patriot side) in the American Revolutionary War. He is the namesake of Buncombe County in western North Carolina. In 1820, his surname (in its status as the name of that county) became the source of the derogatory American slang term, \"bunkum\" and its shortened form, \"bunk\" in consequence of the U.S. representative for the county, Felix Walker, invoking the county during a poorly received speech delivered on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives.\n\nBuncombe was born in 1742 on the West Indies island of St. Christopher (today St. Kitts). He grew up there and in England. He immigrated to North Carolina in 1768 and settled at a plantation he had inherited near the shore of Albemarle Sound on the Atlantic coast, in what is now Washington County. In 1774, as the independence movement of the Thirteen Colonies gathered steam, he took a leading role in convening proindependence meetings, especially the First Provincial Congress, which is reportedly the first assembly anywhere in the Thirteen Colonies to defy a royal governor. He joined a local militia, the Tyrrell militia. The \"Halifax Assembly\" elected him colonel of the 5th North Carolina Regiment of the Continental Army on April 15, 1776 (three days after it had passed the historic Halifax Resolves). He was wounded and captured on October 4, 1777 at the Battle of Germantown, fought several miles outside of the rebel capital of Philadelphia, which the British had recently seized. The British army paroled him to that city. The following May 1778, Col. Buncombe fell down some stairs while sleepwalking and his wounds reopened, causing him to bleed to death. He is buried in Christ Church Burial Ground in Philadelphia.\n\nTax records of 1782 say that his estate included of land and 10 Negroes.\n\nIn 1791, the State of North Carolina created a new county from parts of two other counties and named it for Col. Buncombe. The present Buncombe County is a combination of parts of the original one with parts of neighboring counties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45314746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45314746", "title": "Elysium Health", "text": "Elysium Health\n\nElysium Health is a company founded in 2014 by biologist Leonard Guarente, Dan Alminana, and Eric Marcotulli to market dietary supplements. The next year, the company started selling a dietary supplement called Basis that packages two supplements, nicotinamide riboside (NR), a form of B vitamin found in yeast, and pterostilbene, a polyphenol found in blueberries, into one capsule. The company says that these two ingredients help cells make nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) and that they stimulate sirtuins. The company is widely described as being in the anti-aging field and similar to Sirtris Pharmaceuticals which was developing resveratrol.\n\nElysium has tried to differentiate the product within the dietary supplement industry as being more scientific and exclusive, by means of the product's minimalist packaging, by not selling the product in drug stores but rather only through its website, and by getting several Nobel prize winners to join its scientific advisory board. The company has been criticized for using this advisory board to lend credibility to its product. Like other companies in the supplement industry, Elysium marketed the product heavily on social media.\n\nElysium originally bought the ingredients in Basis from ChromaDex, which as of December 2016, sold the two ingredients to other supplement companies that also marketed products containing them. The two companies had an agreement under which Elysium Health didn't have to acknowledge ChromaDex as the source of the ingredients, but then after Elysium recruited the head of business development from Chromadex and allegedly stopped paying Chromadex, Chromadex sued Elysium and the information became public. In September 2018, Dartmouth College and ChromaDex sued Elysium for infringement of two issued patents exclusively licensed by ChromaDex on use of NR to increase NAD that were invented by Charles Brenner.\n\nElysium is one of several companies founded at around the same time by people with backgrounds in the tech industry and Silicon Valley who saw opportunities in the health and biomedical industries, often focused on anti-aging.\n\nAs of December 2016, Elysium had raised $26.2 million from investors including General Catalyst, Robert Nelson from ARCH Venture Partners, and Morningside Ventures.\n\n"}
{"id": "3849909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3849909", "title": "Freediving blackout", "text": "Freediving blackout\n\nFreediving blackout, breath-hold blackout or apnea blackout is a class of hypoxic blackout, a loss of consciousness caused by cerebral hypoxia towards the end of a breath-hold (freedive or dynamic apnea) dive, when the swimmer does not necessarily experience an urgent need to breathe and has no other obvious medical condition that might have caused it. It can be provoked by hyperventilating just before a dive, or as a consequence of the pressure reduction on ascent, or a combination of these. Victims are often established practitioners of breath-hold diving, are fit, strong swimmers and have not experienced problems before. Blackout may also be referred to as a syncope or fainting.\n\nDivers and swimmers who blackout or grey out underwater during a dive will usually drown unless rescued and resuscitated within a short time. Freediving blackout has a high fatality rate, and mostly involves males younger than 40 years, but is generally avoidable. Risk cannot be quantified, but is clearly increased by any level of hyperventilation.\n\nFreediving blackout can occur on any dive profile: at constant depth, on an ascent from depth, or at the surface following ascent from depth and may be described by a number of terms depending on the dive profile and depth at which consciousness is lost. Blackout during a shallow dive differs from blackout during ascent from a deep dive in that deep water blackout is precipitated by depressurisation on ascent from depth while shallow water blackout is a consequence of hypocapnia following hyperventilation.\n\nDifferent types of freediving blackout have become known under a variety of names; these include:\n\nIn this article \"constant pressure blackout\" and \"shallow water blackout\" refers to blackouts in shallow water following hyperventilation and \"ascent blackout\" and \"deep water blackout\" refers to blackout on ascent from depth. Some free divers consider blackout on ascent to be a special condition or subset of shallow water blackout but the primary underlying mechanisms differ. This confusion is exacerbated by the fact that in the case of blackout on ascent, hyperventilation induced hypocapnia also may be a contributory factor even if depressurisation on ascent is the actual precipitator.\n\nSome scuba diving curricula may apply the terms \"shallow-water blackout\" and \"deep-water blackout\" differently; deep-water blackout being applied to the final stage of nitrogen narcosis while shallow water blackout may be applied to a blackout from a deep free dive. Nitrogen narcosis does not normally apply to freediving as free-divers start and finish the dive with only a single lungful of air and it has long been assumed that free divers are not exposed to the necessary pressure for long enough to absorb sufficient nitrogen. Where these terms are used in this manner there is usually little or no discussion of the phenomenon of blackouts not involving depressurisation and the cause may be variously attributed to either depressurisation or hypocapnia or both. This problem may stem from the origin of the term \"latent hypoxia\" in the context of a string of fatal, shallow water accidents with early military, closed-circuit rebreather apparatus prior to the development of effective oxygen partial pressure measurement. In the very different context of dynamic apnea sports careful consideration of terms is needed to avoid potentially dangerous confusion between two phenomena that actually have different characteristics, mechanisms and prevention measures. The application of the term \"shallow water blackout\" to deep dives and its subsequent association with extreme sports has tended to mislead many practitioners of static apnea and dynamic apnea distance diving into thinking that it does not apply to them even though isobaric shallow water blackout kills swimmers every year, often in shallow swimming pools.\n\nThe CDC has identified a consistent set of voluntary behaviors associated with unintentional drowning, known as dangerous underwater breath-holding behaviors; these are intentional hyperventilation, static apnea, and hypoxic training.\n\nOther terms generally associated with freediving blackout include:\n\nThe minimum tissue and venous partial pressure of oxygen which will maintain consciousness is about . This is equivalent to approximately in the lungs. Approximately 46 ml/min oxygen is required for brain function. This equates to a minimum arterial ppO of at 868 ml/min cerebral flow.\n\nHyperventilation depletes the blood of carbon dioxide (hypocapnia), which causes respiratory alkylosis (increased pH), and causes a leftward shift in the oxygen–hemoglobin dissociation curve. This results in a lower venous partial pressure of oxygen, which worsens hypoxia. A normally ventilated breath-hold usually breaks (from CO) with over 90% saturation which is far from hypoxia. Hypoxia produces a respiratory drive but not as strong as the hypercapnic respiratory drive. This has been studied in altitude medicine, where hypoxia occurs without hypercapnia due to the low ambient pressure. The balance between the hypercapnic and hypoxic respiratory drives has genetic variability and can be modified by hypoxic training. These variations imply that predictive risk cannot be reliably estimated, but pre-dive hyperventilation carries definite risks.\n\nThere are three different mechanisms behind blackouts in freediving:\n\n\nThe mechanism for blackout on ascent differs from hyperventilation induced hypocapnia expedited blackouts and does not necessarily follow hyperventilation. However, hyperventilation will exacerbate the risk and there is no clear line between them. Shallow water blackouts can happen in extremely shallow water, even on dry land following hyperventilation and apnoea but the effect becomes much more dangerous in the ascent stage of a deep freedive. There is considerable confusion surrounding the terms \"shallow\" and \"deep\" water blackout and they have been used to refer to different things, or be used interchangeably, in different water sports circles. For example, the term shallow water blackout has been used to describe blackout on ascent because the blackout usually occurs when the diver ascends to a shallow depth. For the purposes of this article there are two separate phenomena \"Shallow water blackout\" and \"Blackout on ascent\" as follows:\n\nOtherwise unexplained blackouts underwater have been associated with the practice of hyperventilation. Survivors of shallow water blackouts often report using hyperventilation as a technique to increase the time they can spend underwater. Hyperventilation, or over-breathing, involves breathing faster and/or deeper than the body naturally demands and is often used by divers in the mistaken belief that this will increase oxygen saturation. Although this appears true intuitively, under normal circumstances the breathing rate dictated by the body alone already leads to 98–99% oxygen saturation of the arterial blood and the effect of over-breathing on the oxygen intake is minor. What is really happening differs from divers' understanding; these divers are extending their dive by postponing the body's natural breathing mechanism, not by increasing oxygen load. The mechanism is as follows:\n\nThe primary urge to breathe is triggered by rising carbon dioxide (CO) levels in the bloodstream. Carbon dioxide builds up in the bloodstream when oxygen is metabolized and it needs to be expelled as a waste product. The body detects carbon dioxide levels very accurately and relies on this as the primary trigger to control breathing. Hyperventilation artificially depletes the resting concentration of carbon dioxide causing a low blood carbon dioxide condition called hypocapnia. Hypocapnia reduces the reflexive respiratory drive, allowing the delay of breathing and leaving the diver susceptible to loss of consciousness from hypoxia. For most healthy people, the first sign of low oxygen levels is a greyout or unconsciousness: there is no bodily sensation that warns a diver of an impending blackout.\n\nSignificantly, victims drown quietly underwater without alerting anyone to the fact that there is a problem and are typically found on the bottom as shown in the staged image at the right. Survivors of shallow water blackout are typically puzzled as to why they blacked out. Pool lifesavers are trained to scan the bottom for the situation shown.\n\nBreath-hold divers who hyperventilate before a dive increase their risk of drowning. Many drownings unattributed to any other cause result from shallow water blackout and could be avoided if this mechanism was properly understood and the practice eliminated. Shallow water blackout can be avoided by ensuring that carbon dioxide levels in the body are normally balanced prior to diving and that appropriate safety measures are in place.\n\nA high level of hypocapnia is readily identifiable as it causes dizziness and tingling of the fingers. These extreme symptoms are caused by the increase of blood pH (alkalosis) following the reduction of carbon dioxide, which is required to maintain the acidity of the blood. The absence of any symptoms of hypocapnia is not an indication that the diver’s carbon dioxide is within safe limits and cannot be taken as an indication that it is therefore safe to dive. Conservative breath-hold divers who hyperventilate but stop doing so before the onset of these symptoms are likely to be already hypocapnic without knowing it.\n\nNote that the urge to breathe is triggered by rising carbon dioxide levels in the blood and not by the reduction of oxygen. The body can actually detect low levels of oxygen but this is not normally perceptible prior to blackout. Persistently elevated levels of carbon dioxide in the blood, hypercapnia (the opposite to hypocapnia), tend to desensitise the body to carbon dioxide, in which case the body may come to rely on the oxygen level in the blood to maintain respiratory drive. This is illustrated in the scenario of type II respiratory failure. However, in a normal healthy person there is no subjective awareness of low oxygen levels.\n\nAn ascent blackout, or deep water blackout, is a loss of consciousness caused by cerebral hypoxia on ascending from a deep freedive or breath-hold dive, typically of ten metres or more when the swimmer does not necessarily experience an urgent need to breathe and has no other obvious medical condition that might have caused it. Victims typically black out close to the surface, usually within the top three metres, sometimes even as they break surface and have often been seen to approach the surface without apparent distress only to sink away. It is quite rare for blackouts to occur while at the bottom or in the early stages of ascent; divers who drown in these stages are usually found to have inhaled water, indicating that they were conscious and succumbed to an uncontrollable urge to breathe rather than blacking out. Victims are usually established practitioners of deep breath-hold diving, are fit, strong swimmers and have not experienced problems before. Blackout by this mechanism may occur even after surfacing from depth and breathing has commenced if the inhaled oxygen has not yet reached the brain and may be referred to as a surface blackout.\n\nThe partial pressure of oxygen in the air in the lungs controls the oxygen loading of blood. A critical pO of in the lungs will sustain consciousness when breathing is resumed after a breath-hold dive. This is about 4% oxygen in the lungs and 45% oxygen saturation of the arterial blood. At 30 msw (4 bar), 2% by volume oxygen in the lung gas gives a pO of . At 10 msw (2 bar), for the same 2% oxygen, the pO would be , i.e. marginal. At the surface the same 2% oxygen drops to , ignoring metabolic use.\n\nThree factors are thought to be involved: Voluntary suppression of breathing and rapid depressurisation are necessarily present, and self-induced hypocapnia by hyperventilation is known to be present in many cases. Depressurisation on ascent is an explanation for the shallow depth of ascent blackouts but does not fully explain all cases unless accompanied by an underlying suppression of the urge to breathe through self-induced hypocapnia via hyperventilation.\n\nSurface blackout occurs just after the diver exhales on the surface, and may happen before, during or after inhalation of the first breath. When the diver exhales, there is usually a reduction of intrathoracic pressure, which is exacerbated by the effort of inhalation, which can further compromise the partial pressure of oxygen in the alveolar capillaries, and after a small time lag, the oxygen supply to the brain. The exhalation also reduces the buoyancy of the diver and increases the risk of sinking as a consequence of blackout. The drop in intrathoracic pressure may also reduce cardiac output for this period and thereby further compromise the cerebral oxygen supply. The delay between breathing and the oxygenated blood reaching the brain can exceed 15 seconds. Competitive freediving safety monitors watch the diver for at least 30 seconds after surfacing. Recovery breathing may reduce the risk of surface blackout during the critical period after surfacing.\n\nThe usual consequence of blackout, if the diver's airway is not protected, is drowning. A diver who has blacked out and has been promptly returned to the surface will usually regain consciousness within seconds. While the diver is still unconscious underwater, they are at high risk of drowning. The time between loss of consciousness and death varies considerably depending on a number of factors but can be as little as minutes.\n\nAn unconscious diver loses voluntary bodily control, but still has protective reflexes that protect the airway. One of these is laryngospasm, which closes the larynx to prevent water from entering the lungs. After some time a laryngospasm will relax and the airway will open. If the diver has reached the surface and the diver's face is kept above water, when the laryngospasm relaxes spontaneous breathing will often resume.\n\nIf the diver is still underwater when the laryngospasm relaxes, then water will enter the airway and may reach the lungs, which will cause complications even if resuscitation is successful. Secondary drowning may occur as a result.\n\nThe sudden and unexpected death of a swimmer, with no involuntary drowning sequence, can be difficult to ascribe to a specific cause. The possibilities may include pre-existing organic cardiac disease, pre-existing cardiac electrical abnormalities, epilepsy, hypoxic blackout, homicide and suicide. The diagnosis may have significant legal consequences.\n\nCareful recording of observed events can improve the chances of correct diagnosis. The victim of hypoxic blackout may have been seen to be hyperventilating before the dive, and typically the blackout will have occurred some time after immersion, often without surfacing, and usually close to the surface. The victim subsequently found unconscious or dead at the bottom of the water. Accounts of witnesses may be useful in diagnosing the cause and in the resuscitation and treatment of survivors.\n\nThe risk of freediving blackout is not known as there are currently no rigorous data on freediving blackouts. However, the estimated, average, annual fatalities attributed to freediver blackout over a period of ten years in a population of approximately 135,000 divers in nine countries was 53 per year, or one in 2,547. The total number of fatalities appears to have remained unchanged in recent years but it is not possible to calculate the fatality rate because variables such as the number of dives or the diver population are not known.\nThe risk also differs across diving cultures and practices. For example, approximately 70% of Italian divers who regularly compete in national and international spearfishing competitions have had at least one blackout whereas Japanese Ama divers have a low rate of blackout as they follow a conservative dive profile, limiting dive duration to one minute, resting between dives and making several short dives rather than fewer long ones.\n\nExperienced free-divers are at particular risk because of their practiced ability to suppress the carbon dioxide induced urge to breathe. Some argue that the highest risk may be to intermediate skilled divers who are training hard and have not recognised their limits.\n\nWhere deep breath-hold divers are observed to use hyperventilation timely and informed advice may save their lives but experience suggests that divers are reluctant to change their practice unless they have a very clear understanding of the mechanics of the process.\n\nBreath-hold divers who hyperventilate before a dive increase their risk of drowning. Many drownings unattributed to any other cause result from shallow water blackout and could be avoided if this mechanism was properly understood and the practice controlled or eliminated. Increased advocacy to improve public awareness of the risk is one of the few available ways to attempt to reduce the incidence of this problem.\n\nShallow water blackout can be avoided by ensuring that carbon dioxide levels in the body are normally balanced prior to diving and that appropriate safety measures are in place. The following precautions are recommended by several organisations:\n\nA high level of hypocapnia is readily recognized as it causes dizziness and tingling of the fingers. These extreme symptoms are caused by the increase of blood pH (alkalosis) following the reduction of CO, which is required to maintain the acidity of the blood. The absence of any symptoms of hypocapnia is not an indication that the diver’s carbon dioxide level is within safe limits and cannot be taken as an indication that it is therefore safe to dive. Conservative breath-hold divers who hyperventilate but stop doing so before the onset of these symptoms are likely to be hypocapnic already without knowing it.\n\nOutright banning of hyperventilation and breath-hold training at swimming pools may reduce or prevent instances of blackout at those pools, but may result in the activity being done at other places where there may be less supervision and a higher risk of fatality. Supervision by a person not involved in the activity and familiar with the risks and management of blackouts is a preferred option.\n\nAn analysis of incidents suggests that lifeguards at swimming pools could prevent most accidents by watching out for young male swimmers who are practicing hyperventilation and underwater swimming.\n\nRecognition of the problem in time to help is critical; the diver will not notice any symptoms and is dependent on a dive buddy or surface support team for recognition. Indicators of blackout to look for in a diver include:\n\nRescue requires a competent diver on site to recover the unconscious diver to the surface, or prevent them from sinking in the case of a surface blackout. This requires that the safety diver is aware of the status of the diver in time to react effectively. The unconscious freediver should be brought to the surface with minimum delay. There is no risk of lung over-pressure injury, and the airway should be secured if possible to prevent aspiration. The mask is adequate protection of the nasal passages if in place, and a hand can be used to cover the mouth and hold it closed.\n\nOnce surfaced, ensure an open airway. The mask may be removed at this point. The diver may spontaneously resume breathing. Typical response time after shallow dives is 3 to 10 seconds, increasing to 10 to 30 seconds for deep dives. If the diver starts breathing and regains consciousness spontaneously, they should be continuously monitored until out of the water.\n\nIf the diver does not spontaneously resume breathing, rescue breathing (artificial ventilation) is indicated. The casualty should be removed from the water expeditiously and basic life support provided until expert assistance is available.\n\nWhen first aid and medical treatment are necessary, it is for drowning.\n\nInitial resuscitation follows the standard procedure for drowning. The checks for responsiveness and breathing are carried out with the person horizontally supine. If unconscious but breathing, the recovery position is appropriate. If not breathing, rescue ventilation is necessary. Drowning can produce a gasping pattern of apnea while the heart is still beating, and ventilation alone may be sufficient, as the heart may be basically healthy, but hypoxic. The airway-breathing-circulation sequence should be followed, not starting with compressions, as the basic problem is lack of oxygen. Five initial breaths are recommended, as the initial ventilation may be difficult because of water in the airways which can interfere with effective alveolar inflation. Thereafter a sequence of two breaths and 30 chest compressions is recommended, repeated until vital signs are re-established, the rescuers are unable to continue, or advanced life support is available.\n\nAttempts to actively expel water from the airway by abdominal thrusts or positioning head downwards should be avoided as they delay the start of ventilation and increase the risk of vomiting, with a significantly increased risk of death, as aspiration of stomach contents is a common complication of resuscitation efforts. Administration of oxygen at 15 litres per minute by face mask or bag mask is often sufficient, but tracheal intubation with mechanical ventilation may be necessary. Suctioning of pulmonary oedema fluid should be balanced against the need for oxygenisation. The target of ventilation is to achieve 92% to 96% arterial saturation and adequate chest rise. Positive end-expiratory pressure will generally improve oxygenation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26540487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26540487", "title": "Ghosts in Mesopotamian religions", "text": "Ghosts in Mesopotamian religions\n\nThere are many references to ghosts in ancient Mesopotamian religion – the religions of Sumer, Babylon, Assyria and other early states in Mesopotamia. Traces of these beliefs survive in the later Abrahamic religions that came to dominate the region.\n\nThe concept of ghosts or spirits in Mesopotamia is comparable to the shades of the deceased in the Underworld in the mythology of classical antiquity. The shades or spirits of the deceased were known as ' ( ) in Sumerian, which was borrowed as ' in Akkadian. The Sumerian word is analyzed as a compound of either \"gig\" \"to be sick\" and \"dim\" \"a demon\", or \"gi\" \"black\" + \"dim\" \"to approach\".\n\n\"Gidim\" were thought to be created at time of death, taking on the memory and personality of the dead person. They traveled to the netherworld, Irkalla, where they were assigned a position, and led an existence similar in some ways to that of the living. Relatives of the dead were expected to make offerings of food and drink to the dead to ease their conditions. If they did not, the ghosts could inflict misfortune and illness on the living. \nTraditional healing practices ascribed a variety of illnesses to the action of ghosts, while others were caused by gods or demons. Some sources say the spirit was \"inherited from the slain god whose body was used in creating man\".\n\nIn Mesopotamian religion, Irkalla, the Underworld, is ruled by the goddess Ereshkigal and her consort Nergal or Ninazu. Ghosts spent some time traveling to the netherworld, often having to overcome obstacles along the way. The Anunnaki, the court of the netherworld, welcomed each ghost and received their offerings. The court explained the rules and assigned the ghost his fate or place.\n\nAnother court was presided over by the sun god Utu, who visited the netherworlds on his daily round, Shamash might punish ghosts who harassed the living, and might award a share of funerary offerings to forgotten ghosts.\n\nThe Babylonian netherworld was populated by an array of monsters and demons. However, within the netherworld the ghosts existed in a manner similar to the living. They had houses and could meet with deceased family members and associates.\n\nThe \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" revolves around a relationship between the hero-king Gilgamesh and his close companion, Enkidu. It may loosely refer to a real king of the 27th century BCE. Part of the story relates Enkidu's death, the adventures of his ghost in the underworld, and the eventual return to the world when Gilgamesh breaks a hole in the earth.\n\nThe Babylonians believed that life in the underworld could be made more tolerable if the surviving relatives regularly made offerings of food and drink. The ghosts of people without children to make these offerings would suffer more, while people who died in fire or whose body lies in the desert would have no ghost at all. If the relatives failed to make offerings, the ghost could become restless and visit sickness and misfortune on them.\n\nPhysical ailments resulting from hearing or seeing a ghost included headaches, eye and ear problems, various intestinal pains, shortness of breath and dizziness, fever and neurological and mental disorders. Cures involved ritual performances with use of offerings, libations, figurines, ritual burial and dispatch, encirclement, amulets, fumigants, bandages, salves, potions, washes, and suppositories.\nOther Mesopotamian diseases were blamed on gods or ghosts, each causing a particular sickness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6865318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6865318", "title": "Institute for Futures Research", "text": "Institute for Futures Research\n\nEstablished in 1974, the Institute for Futures Research (IFR) is a research institution of the University of Stellenbosch specialising in futures studies, primarily as a support service for knowledge and strategic management. The IFR’s research focus is on the following fields of specialisation:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20209290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20209290", "title": "Jacques d'Amboise (bishop)", "text": "Jacques d'Amboise (bishop)\n\nJacques d'Amboise (between 1440 and 1450 – 27 December 1516) was a French religious dignitary and patron of medieval France. He was abbot of Jumièges then of Cluny, and bishop of Clermont. He was a member of the House of Amboise, an old noble family.\n\nHe was the son of Anne de Bueil and Pierre d'Amboise, lord of Chaumont, as their seventh of eighteen children. Entering the Benedictine order he was elected abbot of Jumièges in January 1474, replacing his brother Louis on his appointment as bishop of Albi. Jacques took his oath of loyalty as abbot on 20 February 1474 and took possession of the abbey on 28 May.\n\nIn 1485 he succeeded a Bourbon as abbot of Cluny, rebuilding the Cluny abbots' hôtel in Paris as well as its now-lost chapel and collège. Located beside the Gallo-Roman ruins, the hôtel de Cluny hosted several royal visits and would be inhabited by cardinal Mazarin in 1634. He also built the abbatial palace of Paray-le-Monial.\nThe bishopric of Clermont had been left vacant at the end of 1504, and Louis XII appointed Jacques d'Amboise to it – he held the post from 1505 until his death. He completed the diocese's cathedral and replaced its tiles with a lead roof, as well as richly adding to its library and creating a tapestry in the choir of which four pieces are now in St Petersburg. In 1515 he built the fountain that bears his arms and name in Clermont.\n\nLike his brothers Louis and Georges, he had a great sense of family : he appointed several of his nephews to church posts, adorned all his works with his family arms in or palé de gules and even inserted prayers for his family name in the eucharistic prayer, when this was actually only allowed to sites of the apostolic college.\n"}
{"id": "21987591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21987591", "title": "Japanese submarine I-15", "text": "Japanese submarine I-15\n\nI-15 was a Japanese B1 type submarine. She was completed at Kure Navy Yard on September 30, 1940, whereupon she entered into service with the Imperial Japanese Navy. Her first and only commanding officer was Commander Nobuo Ishikawa. \"I-15\" operated off the north coast of Oahu during the raid on Pearl Harbor. Her second wartime patrol, in May and June 1942, took her to the Aleutians, where she conducted reconnaissance of several islands. \"I-15\"s third and final patrol took place from August to November 1942, when she operated in the Solomon Islands in the South Pacific, supporting the Japanese efforts to hold Guadalcanal. One source (Morison) suggests that \"I-15\" hit the battleship with a torpedo on September 15, 1942. More recent authorities (Hackett & Kingsepp) maintain that the torpedo came from another submarine operating in the area, , which was also responsible for the sinking of , which \"I-15\" duly observed and reported. On November 10, 1942, a U.S. ex-destroyer (modified to a fast minesweeper), , sank \"I-15\" at Cape Recherche, San Cristóbal, with all hands lost.\nCommander Ishikawa was promoted to the rank of Captain posthumously. On December 14, 1942, more than one month after \"I-15\" was sunk, sank an unknown submarine which it misidentified as the \"I-15\".\n\n"}
{"id": "46644858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46644858", "title": "Jo Cox", "text": "Jo Cox\n\nHelen Joanne Cox (née Leadbeater; 22 June 1974 – 16 June 2016) was a British politician who served as the Member of Parliament (MP) for Batley and Spen from her election in May 2015 until her murder in June 2016. She was a member of the Labour Party.\n\nBorn in Batley, West Yorkshire, Cox studied Social and Political Sciences at Pembroke College, Cambridge. Working first as a political assistant, she joined the international humanitarian charity Oxfam in 2001, where she became head of policy and advocacy at Oxfam GB in 2005. She was selected to contest the Batley and Spen parliamentary seat after the previous incumbent, Mike Wood, decided not to stand in 2015. She held the seat for Labour with an increased majority. Cox became a campaigner on issues relating to the Syrian Civil War, and founded and chaired the all-party parliamentary group Friends of Syria.\n\nOn 16 June 2016, Cox died after being shot and stabbed multiple times in Birstall, where she had been due to hold a constituency surgery. Thomas Mair, who held far-right views, was found guilty of her murder in November and sentenced to life imprisonment with a whole life order.\n\nCox was born Helen Joanne Leadbeater on 22 June 1974 in Batley, West Yorkshire, England, to Jean, a school secretary, and Gordon Leadbeater, a toothpaste and hairspray factory worker. Raised in Heckmondwike, she was educated at Heckmondwike Grammar School, a state grammar school, where she was head girl. During summers, she worked packing toothpaste. Cox studied at Pembroke College, Cambridge, initially studying Archaeology and Anthropology before switching to Social and Political Science, graduating in 1995. She later studied at the London School of Economics.\n\nFollowing her graduation from Pembroke College, Cox worked as an adviser to Labour MP Joan Walley, before moving to Brussels to spend two years as an assistant to Glenys Kinnock, wife of former Labour leader Neil Kinnock, who was then a Member of the European Parliament. From 2001 to 2009, Cox worked for the aid groups Oxfam and Oxfam International, first in Brussels as the leader of the group's trade reform campaign, then as head of policy and advocacy at Oxfam GB in 2005, and head of Oxfam International's humanitarian campaigns in New York City in 2007. While there, she helped to publish \"For a Safer Tomorrow\", a book authored by Ed Cairns which examines the changing nature of the world's humanitarian policies. Her work for Oxfam in which she met disadvantaged groups in Darfur and Afghanistan influenced her political thinking.\n\nCox's charity work led to a role advising Sarah Brown, wife of former Prime Minister Gordon Brown, who was spearheading a campaign to prevent deaths in pregnancy and childbirth. Cox was the national chair of the Labour Women's Network and a senior adviser to the Freedom Fund, an anti-slavery charity.\n\nCox was nominated by the Labour Party to contest the Batley and Spen seat being vacated by Mike Wood in the 2015 general election. She was selected as its candidate from an all-women shortlist. The Batley and Spen seat was a Conservative marginal between 1983 and 1997, but is now considered to be a safe seat for Labour, and Cox won the seat with 43.2% of the vote, increasing Labour's majority to 6,051. Cox made her maiden speech in the House of Commons on 3 June 2015, using it to celebrate her constituency's ethnic diversity, while highlighting the economic challenges facing the community and urging the government to rethink its approach to economic regeneration. She was one of 36 Labour MPs who nominated Jeremy Corbyn as a candidate in the Labour leadership election of 2015, but said she had done so to get him on the list and encourage a broad debate. In the election she voted for Liz Kendall, and announced after the local elections on 6 May 2016 that she and fellow MP Neil Coyle regretted nominating Corbyn.\n\nCox campaigned for a solution to the Syrian Civil War. In October 2015, she co-authored an article in \"The Observer\" with Conservative MP Andrew Mitchell, arguing that British military forces could help achieve an ethical solution to the conflict, including the creation of civilian safe havens in Syria. During that month Cox launched the All Party Parliamentary Friends of Syria group, becoming its chair. In the Commons vote in December to approve UK military intervention against ISIL in Syria, Cox abstained because she believed in a more comprehensive strategy that would also include combatting President Bashar al-Assad and his \"indiscriminate barrel bombs\". She wrote:\n\nAndrew Grice of \"The Independent\" felt that she \"argued forcefully that the UK Government should be doing more both to help the victims and use its influence abroad to bring an end to the Syrian conflict\". In February 2016, Cox wrote to the Nobel Committee praising the work of the Syrian Civil Defense, a civilian voluntary emergency rescue organisation known as the White Helmets, and nominating them for the Nobel Peace Prize: \"In the most dangerous place on earth these unarmed volunteers risk their lives to help anyone in need regardless of religion or politics\". The nomination was accepted by the committee, and garnered the support of twenty of her fellow MPs and several celebrities, including George Clooney, Daniel Craig, Chris Martin and Michael Palin. The nomination was supported by members of Canada's New Democratic Party, who urged Stéphane Dion, the country's Foreign Affairs Minister, to give his backing on behalf of Canada.\n\nCox, a supporter of the Labour Friends of Palestine & the Middle East, called for the lifting of the blockade of the Gaza Strip. She opposed efforts by the government to curtail the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement, and said \"I believe that this is a gross attack on democratic freedoms. Not only is it right to boycott unethical companies but it is our right to do so.\" Cox was working with Conservative MP Tom Tugendhat on a report to be published following the release of the Chilcot Report into the 2003 invasion of Iraq. After her death, Tugendhat wrote in \"The Times\", \"Our starting point was that while Britain must learn the painful lessons of Iraq, we must not let the pendulum swing towards knee-jerk isolationism, ideological pacifism and doctrinal anti-interventionism\". With the charity Tell MAMA she worked on \"The Geography of Anti-Muslim Hatred\", investigating cases of Islamophobia; the report was dedicated to her at its launch on 29 June 2016. Two parliamentary questions concerning the Yemeni Conflict, tabled by Cox to the Foreign Office on 14 June, were answered by Tobias Ellwood after her death. On 1 July, \"The Guardian\" reported that each answer was accompanied by a government note stating \"This question was tabled before the sad death of the honourable lady but the subject remains important and the government's response ought to be placed on the public record.\"\n\nCox was a \"Remain\" supporter in the campaign leading to the 2016 referendum on the United Kingdom's membership of the European Union. Following her death, the EU referendum campaign was suspended for the day by both sides as a mark of respect. The BBC cancelled editions of \"Question Time\" and \"This Week\", two political discussion programmes scheduled to air that evening focussing on issues relating to the referendum.\n\nCox was married to Brendan Cox, an adviser on international development to Gordon Brown during Brown's premiership, whom she met while she was working for Oxfam, from June 2009 until her death in June 2016. They had two children, Cuillin (b. 2011) and Lejla (b. 2012). The Cox family divided their time between their constituency home and a houseboat, a converted Dutch barge, on the Thames, moored near Tower Bridge in London. A secular humanist, Jo was a supporter of the British Humanist Association.\n\nAt 12:53 pm BST on 16 June 2016, Cox was fatally shot and stabbed outside a library in Birstall, West Yorkshire, where she was about to hold a constituency surgery at 1:00 pm. According to eyewitnesses, she was shot three times — once near the head — and stabbed multiple times. A 77-year-old local man, Bernard Kenny, was stabbed in the stomach while trying to fend off her attacker. Initial reports indicated that the attacker, Thomas Mair, a 52-year-old Batley and Spen constituent who had a history of psychiatric problems and links to the US-based neo-Nazi group National Alliance, shouted \"Britain first\" as he carried out the attack.\n\nThe far-right Britain First party issued a statement denying any involvement or encouragement in the attack and suggested that the phrase \"could have been a slogan rather than a reference to our party\". Later at Mair's trial a witness stated that he shouted, \"This is for Britain. Britain will always come first\".\n\nFour hours after the incident, West Yorkshire Police announced that Cox had died of her injuries shortly after being admitted to Leeds General Infirmary. She was the first sitting MP to be killed since the Conservative Party's Ian Gow, who was killed by a Provisional IRA car bomb in July 1990, and the first MP to be seriously assaulted since Stephen Timms, who was stabbed by Roshonara Choudhry in an attempted assassination in May 2010. A memorial service was held at St Peter's Church in Birstall the following day.\nMair was arrested shortly after the attack. In a statement issued the day after the attack, West Yorkshire Police said that Cox was the victim of a \"targeted attack\" and the suspect's links to far-right extremism were a \"priority line of inquiry\" in the search for a motive. On 18 June, Mair was charged with murder, grievous bodily harm, possession of a firearm with intent to commit an indictable offence and possession of an offensive weapon. He appeared at Westminster Magistrates' Court later that day, and at the Old Bailey on 20 June.\n\nOn 23 November 2016, Mair was found guilty of all charges – the murder of Cox, stabbing Bernard Kenny (a charge of grievous bodily harm with intent), possession of a firearm with intent to commit an indictable offence and possession of an offensive weapon, namely the dagger. The trial judge said that the crime was so severe that 53-year-old Mair should be given a whole-life tariff—never be released from prison, except at the discretion of the Secretary of State.\n\nThe assassination received worldwide attention with tributes and memorials for Cox being made with condemnation of Mair. A personal friend, Canadian MP Nathan Cullen paid tribute to Cox in the House of Commons of Canada. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the then US Secretary of State John Kerry and former US Representative Gabrielle Giffords, who was wounded in an assassination attempt in 2011, were among international politicians who sent messages of condemnation and sympathy in the aftermath of her killing. Cox's husband issued a statement urging people to \"fight against the hatred that killed her\".\n\nAmong those who paid tribute to Cox were Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn, who described her as someone who was \"dedicated to getting us to live up to our promises to support the developing world and strengthen human rights\", while Prime Minister David Cameron said she was \"a star for her constituents, a star in parliament, and right across the house\". US President Barack Obama telephoned Cox's husband to offer his condolences, noting that \"the world is a better place because of her selfless service to others\". Parliament was recalled on 20 June 2016 for fellow MPs to pay tribute to Cox.\n\nThe day after Cox died, 17 June 2016, her husband set up a GoFundMe page named \"Jo Cox's Fund\" in aid of three charities which he described as \"closest to her heart\": the Royal Voluntary Service, Hope not Hate, and the White Helmets, a Syrian civil defence group. £700,000 had been raised by 19 June 2016, with the amount exceeding £1 million by the following day. On 20 June, Oxfam announced it would release \"Stand As One – Live at Glastonbury 2016\", an album of live performances from the festival in memory of Cox and that proceeds from the album, released on 11 July, will go towards the charity's work with refugees. The festival opened with a tribute to Cox. On the evening of 23 June, while ballots were being counted in the EU membership referendum, polling officials in the Yorkshire and Humber region observed a minute's silence.\n\nWest Yorkshire coroner Martin Fleming opened an inquest into Cox's death at Bradford Coroner's Court on 24 June. It was adjourned following a six-minute hearing and her body released to allow her family to make funeral arrangements. The funeral, \"a very small and private family affair\", was held in her constituency on 15 July, with many thousands of people paying their respects as the cortege passed.\n\nA by-election in Batley and Spen was held on 20 October 2016. Labour candidate Tracy Brabin, an actress whose credits include a role in \"Coronation Street\" in the mid 1990s, won the by-election with 85 percent share of the vote. The Conservative Party, Liberal Democrats, Green Party, and UKIP did not contest the election as a mark of respect. Jack Buckby caused widespread condemnation by standing in the by-election, with Cox's former Labour colleague MP Jack Dromey describing Liberty GB's bid as \"obscene, outrageous and contemptible\".\n\nOne year after her murder, three individuals who came to her aid were honoured in the 2017 Queen's Birthday Honours. Bernard Kenny, a passerby who tried to stop Mair during the attack and was himself stabbed in the stomach, was awarded the George Medal, which is given to civilians who exhibit great bravery. PC Craig Nicholls and PC Jonathan Wright of the West Yorkshire Police, who apprehended and arrested her attacker after he had fled the scene, were awarded the Queen's Gallantry Medal.\n\nIn December 2016, a group of politicians came together to record a cover of the Rolling Stones \"You Can't Always Get What You Want\" in honour of Cox. Politicians from the Labour Party, the Conservatives, and the SNP joined with members of the Parliament Choir, the Royal Opera House Thurrock Community Chorus, musician KT Tunstall, Steve Harley, Ricky Wilson, David Gray and other musicians. All profits from sales of the song went to the Jo Cox Foundation.\n\nIn May 2017, a memorial, designed by Cox's children, was unveiled in the House of Commons. The unveiling took place at the first \"Great Get Together\" event that the Jo Cox Foundation held and was in the form of a family day at Parliament. In June 2017, Cox's husband Brendan published \"Jo Cox: More In Common\", a book that talks about the impact of his wife's death on their family. Also in June 2017, and to mark the first anniversary of Cox's death, her family and friends urged people to take part in a weekend of events to celebrate her life and held under the banner of \"The Great Get Together\"; events included picnics, street parties and concerts.\n\nA street, formerly ' after Pierre-Étienne Flandin, in Avallon, a town in the Yonne ' of France, was renamed \"\" in May 2017. In Brussels, a square beside the Ancienne Belgique concert hall was renamed to Place Jo Cox / Jo Cox Plein in September 2018.\n\nA work of contemporary dance theatre inspired by Jo Cox's political and social beliefs, entitled \"More in Common\", was created by Youth Music Theatre UK in August 2017 and presented at the Square Chapel, Halifax.\n\nOn 24 June 2017, a coat of arms, designed with the input of Cox's children, was unveiled by her family at the House of Commons, where MPs killed in office are honoured with heraldic shields. The elements of the arms included four roses, to symbolize the members of Cox's family (two white roses, for Yorkshire, and two red, for Labour); and the tinctures green, purple, and white, which were the colours of the British suffragette movement. The motto, \"More in Common,\" is displayed below the shield, and comes from her maiden speech made in Parliament, in which she said, \"We are far more united and have far more in common than that which divides us.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5541836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5541836", "title": "Johnny Bright", "text": "Johnny Bright\n\nJohnny D. Bright (June 11, 1930 – December 14, 1983) was a professional Canadian football player in the Canadian Football League. He played college football at Drake University. He is a member of the Canadian Football Hall of Fame, the National Football Foundation's College Football Hall of Fame, the Missouri Valley Conference Hall of Fame, the Edmonton Eskimos Wall of Honour, the Alberta Sports Hall of Fame, and the \"Des Moines Register's\" Iowa Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 1951, Bright was named a First Team College Football All-American, and was awarded the Nils V. \"Swede\" Nelson Sportsmanship Award. In 1969, Bright was named Drake University's greatest football player of all time. Bright is the only Drake football player to have his jersey number (No. 43) retired by the school, and in June 2006, received honorable mention from \"ESPN.com\" senior writer Ivan Maisel as one of the best college football players to ever wear No. 43. In February 2006, the football field at Drake Stadium, in Des Moines, Iowa, was named in his honor. In November 2006, Bright was voted one of the CFL's Top 50 players (No. 19) of the league's modern era by Canadian sports network TSN.\n\nIn addition to his outstanding professional and college football careers, Bright is perhaps best known for his role as the victim of an intentional, most likely racially motivated, on-field assault by an opposing college football player from Oklahoma A&M (now Oklahoma State University) on October 20, 1951, that was captured in a widely disseminated and Pulitzer Prize winning photo sequence, and eventually came to be known as the \"Johnny Bright incident.\"\n\nBorn in Fort Wayne, Indiana on June 11, 1930, Bright was the second oldest of five brothers. Bright lived with his mother and step father Daniel Bates, brothers, Homer Bright, the eldest, Alfred, Milton, and Nate Bates, in a working class, predominantly African-American neighborhood in Fort Wayne.\n\nBright was a three-sport (football, basketball, track and field) star at Fort Wayne's Central High School. Bright, who also was an accomplished softball pitcher and boxer, led Central High's football team to a City title in 1945, and helped the basketball team to two state tournament Final Four appearances.\n\nFollowing his graduation from Central High in 1947, Bright initially accepted a football scholarship at Michigan State University, but, apparently unhappy with the direction of the Spartans football program, transferred to Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa, where he accepted a track and field scholarship that allowed him to try out for the football and basketball squads. Bright eventually lettered in football, track, and basketball, during his collegiate career at Drake.\n\nFollowing a mandatory freshman redshirt year, Bright began his collegiate football career in 1949, rushing for 975 yards and throwing for another 975 to lead the nation in total offense during his sophomore year, as the Drake Bulldogs finished their season at 6–2–1. In Bright's junior year, the halfback/quarterback rushed for 1,232 yards and passed for 1,168 yards, setting an NCAA record for total offense (2,400 yards) in 1950, and again led the Bulldogs to a 6–2–1 record.\n\nBright's senior year began with great promise. Bright was considered a pre-season Heisman Trophy candidate, and was leading the nation in both rushing and total offense with 821 and 1,349 yards respectively, when the Drake Bulldogs, winners of their previous five games, faced Missouri Valley Conference foe Oklahoma A&M at Lewis Field (now Boone Pickens Stadium) in Stillwater, Oklahoma, on October 20, 1951.\n\nBright's participation as a halfback/quarterback in Drake's game against Oklahoma A&M on October 20, 1951, was controversial, as it marked the first time that such a prominent African-American athlete, with national notoriety (Bright was a pre-season Heisman Trophy candidate and led the nation in total offense going into the game) and of critical importance to the success of his team (Drake was undefeated and carried a five-game winning streak into the contest, due in large part to his rushing and passing), had played against Oklahoma A&M in a home game at Lewis Field, in Stillwater.\n\nDuring the first seven minutes of the game, Bright had been knocked unconscious three times by blows from Oklahoma A&M defensive tackle Wilbanks Smith. While the final, elbow blow from Smith broke Bright's jaw, Bright was able to complete a 61-yard touchdown pass to halfback Jim Pilkington a few plays later before the injury finally forced Bright to leave the game. Bright finished the game with 75 yards (14 yards rushing and 61 yards passing), the first time he had finished a game with less than 100 yards in his three-year collegiate career at Drake. Oklahoma A&M eventually won the game 27-14.\n\nA photographic sequence by \"Des Moines Register\" cameramen Don Ultang and John Robinson clearly showed that Smith's jaw breaking blow to Bright had occurred well after Bright had handed off the ball to fullback Gene Macomber, and that the blow was delivered well behind the play. Years later, Ultang said that he and Robinson were lucky to capture the incident when they did; they'd only planned to stay through the first quarter so they could get the film developed in time for the next day's edition.\n\nIt had been an open secret before the game that A&M was planning to target Bright. Even though A&M had integrated two years earlier, the Jim Crow spirit was still very much alive in Stillwater. Both Oklahoma A&M's student newspaper, \"The Daily O'Collegian\", and the local newspaper, \"The News Press\", reported that Bright was a marked man, and several A&M students were openly claiming that Bright \"would not be around at the end of the game.\" Ultang and Robinson had actually set up their camera after rumors of Bright being targeted became too loud to ignore.\n\nWhen it became apparent that neither Oklahoma A&M nor the MVC would take any disciplinary action against Smith, Drake withdrew from the MVC in protest and stayed out until 1956 (though it didn't return for football until 1971). Fellow member Bradley University pulled out of the league as well in solidarity with Drake; while it returned for non-football sports in 1955, Bradley never played another down of football in the MVC (it dropped football in 1970).\n\nThe \"Johnny Bright Incident\", as it became widely known, eventually provoked changes in NCAA football rules regarding illegal blocking, and mandated the use of more protective helmets with face guards.\n\nRecalling the incident without apparent bitterness in a 1980 \"Des Moines Register\" interview three years before his death, Bright commented: \"There's no way it couldn't have been racially motivated... . ..What I like about the whole deal now, and what I'm smug enough to say, is that getting a broken jaw has somehow made college athletics better. It made the NCAA take a hard look and clean up some things that were bad.\"\n\nBright's jaw injury limited his effectiveness for the remainder of his senior season at Drake, but he finished his college career with 5,983 yards in total offense, averaging better than 236 yards per game in total offense, and scored 384 points in 25 games. As a senior, Bright earned 70 percent of the yards Drake gained and scored 70 percent of the Bulldogs' points, despite missing the better part of the final three games of the season.\n\nFollowing his final football season at Drake (1951), Bright was named a First Team College Football All-American and finished fifth in the balloting for the 1951 Heisman Trophy. Bright was also awarded the Nils V. \"Swede\" Nelson Sportsmanship Award, and played in both the post-season East–West Shrine Game and the Hula Bowl.\n\nIn 1969, Bright was named Drake University's greatest football player of all time. He is also the only Drake football player to have his jersey number (No. 43) retired by the school. In June 2006, Bright received honorable mention from \"ESPN.com\" senior writer Ivan Maisel as one of the best college football players to ever wear No. 43.\n\nBright was the first pick of the Philadelphia Eagles in the first round of the 1952 National Football League draft. Bright spurned the NFL, electing to play for the Calgary Stampeders of the Western Interprovincial Football Union, the precursor to the West Division of the Canadian Football League. Bright later commented: \n\nBright joined the Calgary Stampeders as a fullback/linebacker in 1952, leading the Stampeders and the WIFU in rushing with 815 yards his rookie season. Bright played fullback/linebacker with the Stampeders for the 1952, 1953, and part of the 1954 seasons. In 1954, the Calgary Stampeders traded him to the Edmonton Eskimos in mid-season. He would enjoy the most success of his professional football career as a member of the Eskimos.\n\nThough Bright played strictly defense as a linebacker in his first year with the Eskimos, he played both offense (as a fullback) and defense for two seasons (1955–1956), and played offense permanently after that (1957–1964). He, along with teammates Rollie Miles, Normie Kwong, and Jackie Parker, helped lead the Eskimos to successive Grey Cup titles in 1954, 1955, and 1956 (where Bright rushed for a then Grey Cup record of 171 yards in a 50–27 win over the Montreal Alouettes). In 1957, he rushed for eight consecutive 100-yard games, finishing the season with 1,679 yards. In 1958, he rushed for 1,722 yards. In 1959, following his third straight season as the Canadian pro rushing leader with 1,340 yards, Bright won the CFL's Most Outstanding Player Award, the first African-American or African-Canadian athlete to be so honored.\n\nBright was approached several times during his Canadian career by NFL teams about playing in the United States, but in the days before the blockbuster salaries of today's NFL players, it was common for CFL players such as him to hold regular jobs in addition to football, and he had already started a teaching career in 1957, the year he moved his family to Edmonton. \n\nBright retired in 1964 as the CFL's all-time leading rusher (Mike Pringle and George Reed have since surpassed him). Bright rushed for 10,909 yards in 13 seasons, had five consecutive 1,000 yard seasons, and led the CFL in rushing four times. While Bright is currently 15th on the All-Pro Rushing list, his career average of 5.5 yards per carry is the highest among 10,000+ yard rushers (Pro Football Hall of Famer Jim Brown is second at 5.2 yards per carry). At the time of his retirement, Bright had a then-CFL record thirty-six 100-plus-yard games, carrying the ball 200 or more times for five straight seasons. Bright led the CFL Western Conference in rushing four times, winning the Eddie James Memorial Trophy in the process, and was a CFL Western Conference All-Star five straight seasons from 1957 to 1961. Bright played in 197 consecutive CFL games as a fullback/linebacker. Bright's No. 24 jersey was added to the Edmonton Eskimos' Wall of Honour at the Eskimos' Commonwealth Stadium in 1983. Bright was inducted into the Canadian Football Hall of Fame on November 26, 1970. In November 2006, Bright was voted one of the CFL's Top 50 players (No. 19) of the league's modern era by Canadian sports network TSN.\n\nBright earned a Bachelor of Science degree in education at Drake University in 1952, becoming a teacher, coach, and school administrator, both during and after his professional football career, eventually rising to the seat of principal of D.S. Mackenzie Junior High School and Hillcrest Junior High School in Edmonton, Alberta. He was head coach at Edmonton's Bonnie Doon High School in the 1960s when the Lancers were a champion football team.\n\nHe became a Canadian citizen in 1962.\n\nBright died of a massive heart attack on December 14, 1983, at the University of Alberta Hospital in Edmonton, while undergoing elective surgery to correct a knee injury suffered during his football career. He was survived by his wife and four children.\n\nBright is buried at Holy Cross Cemetery, in Edmonton.\n\nDespite irrefutable evidence of the incident, Oklahoma A&M officials denied anything had happened. Indeed, Oklahoma A&M/State refused to make any further official comment on the incident for over half a century. This was the case even when Drake's former dean of men, Robert B. Kamm, became president of OSU in 1966; years later, he said that the determination to gloss over the affair was so strong that he knew he could not even discuss it. Finally, on September 28, 2005, Oklahoma State President David J. Schmidly wrote a letter to Drake President David Maxwell formally apologizing for the incident, calling it \"an ugly mark on Oklahoma State University and college football.\" The apology came twenty-two years after Bright's death.\n\nIn February 2006, the football field at Drake Stadium, in Des Moines, Iowa, was named in Bright's honor.\n\nIn September 2010, Johnny Bright School, a kindergarten through grade 9 school, was named in Bright's honour, and opened in the Rutherford neighbourhood of Edmonton. The school was officially opened on September 15 by representatives of the school district and Alberta Education Minister Dave Hancock, and included tributes from Bright's family, several dignitaries, and former colleagues of Bright from his both his athletic and educational careers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41271180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41271180", "title": "Lee Stephen Tillotson", "text": "Lee Stephen Tillotson\n\nLee Stephen Tillotson (December 8, 1874 – July 18, 1957) was a Vermont military officer and attorney who served as Adjutant General of the Vermont National Guard.\n\nLee S. Tillotson was born on December 8, 1874 in Bakersfield, Vermont. Tillotson attended local schools, and graduated from Brigham Academy in 1890. He then joined the Central Vermont Railway in St. Albans, working as a clerk in its main office from 1890 to 1899.\n\nTillotson joined the Vermont National Guard in 1898. Enlisting as a cornet player, he rose in rank to become the principal musician of the 1st Vermont Volunteer Infantry Regiment during the Spanish–American War. He continued his military service after the war, obtaining a commission as a first lieutenant in 1901 and rising to the rank of lieutenant colonel. He was also an active member of United Spanish War Veterans.\n\nDuring his life Tillotson continued to pursue his musical interests. He sang in and directed choirs in St. Albans, Boston and Washington, D.C., and also served as Treasurer of the Handel and Haydn Society.\n\nFollowing the Spanish–American War Tillotson resigned from the Central Vermont Railroad to pursue legal studies. He attained admission to the bar in 1902 and began a practice in St. Albans.\n\nA Republican, Tillotson served as Judge of the St. Albans Municipal Court from 1904 to 1906. Tillotson was also involved in other business and government activities, including serving as a member of the board of directors for the gas lighting company in St. Albans and a member of the Vermont Commission on Probation.\n\nIn 1910 Tillotson was appointed Adjutant General of the Vermont National Guard with the rank of brigadier general, filling the position following the death of William H. Gilmore. Tillotson’s appointment was a generational break, because he was the first Vermont Adjutant General since the American Civil War who was not a veteran of that conflict.\nTillotson won reelection every two years, and continued to serve as Adjutant General until the start of World War I. (Since 1865 the Adjutant General is selected for a two-year term by a secret ballot of the Vermont General Assembly. Elections are held in February of each odd numbered year, with the term commencing the following March.)\n\nHe resigned as Adjutant General to enter the regular Army for service in France during World War I, accepting a reduction in rank to serve on active duty, and receiving a commission as a major in the Adjutant General’s Corps. He served initially on the staff of the Militia Bureau. In France he served as adjutant of the 93rd Division, a segregated unit of African-American soldiers and white officers. Tillotson then transferred to the staff of the American Expeditionary Forces Services of Supply. Upon returning to the United States, Tillotson served as assistant adjutant of Camp Meade, Maryland, responsible for out processing and discharging soldiers returning from the war.\n\nTillotson returned to Vermont in 1919 and ran unsuccessfully for the adjutant general’s position, losing to Herbert T. Johnson, who had acted as adjutant general during Tillotson’s wartime service. Tillotson then continued his service in the regular Army. In April, 1920 he transferred to the Infantry branch, and his postings included adjutant and executive officer of the 21st Regiment, Hawaiian Division. He also became an active member of the American Legion. In 1927 he joined the Judge Advocate General Corps, and was assigned to the War Department’s General Staff.\n\nFrom 1929 to 1933 Tillotson was the army’s liaison officer to the U.S. Senate Committee on Military Affairs. At the time of his retirement in 1938, he was judge advocate of the First Corps Area in Boston. Tillotson retired from active duty as a colonel in 1938. During his Army service Tillotson authored \"The Articles of War, Annotated\" and \"Index/Digest to Uniform Code of Military Justice\".\n\nTillotson was an active Mason attaining the 33rd Degree and serving as Vermont’s youngest-ever Grand Master. He also authored \"History of Ancient Craft Masonry in Vermont\" and \"Digest of Masonic Law in Vermont\".\n\nTillotson returned to Vermont after retiring from the army. Initially he resided in Springfield and practiced law with Alban J. Parker, who went on to serve as Vermont Attorney General.\n\nHe later lived in retirement, first in Northfield, and later in Newfane. Tillotson remained active, including serving on Newfane's Board of Selectmen and authoring numerous articles on American history and other topics.\n\nTillotson died at the hospital in Townshend, Vermont on July 18, 1957, as the result of complications from a fall that left him with a fractured hip. He was buried in Newfane’s Parish Cemetery.\n\nIn October, 1917 Lee Tillotson married Ethel A. Adams (1892–1972) in Montpelier, Vermont. They had a son, John Adams Tillotson (1919–2005). John Tillotson was a career soldier who attained the rank of lieutenant colonel and served in World War II, the Korean War and the Vietnam War.\n"}
{"id": "1987415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987415", "title": "Michel Guimond", "text": "Michel Guimond\n\nMichel Guimond (December 26, 1953 – January 19, 2015) was a Canadian politician. From 1987 to 1993 he served as a city councillor in Boischatel, Quebec. After this, he ran in the 1993 federal election for the Bloc Québécois. He was elected into the House of Commons of Canada as the member from Beauport—Montmorency—Orléans. He was re-elected in the 1997 and 2000 federal elections (in the riding of Beauport—Montmorency—Côte-de-Beaupré—Île-d'Orléans) and in the 2004 federal election (in the riding of Charlevoix—Montmorency). In the 2004 and 2008 elections, he won in Montmorency—Charlevoix—Haute-Côte-Nord before being defeated in the 2011 federal election. A lawyer, he has served as the Bloc critic of Parliamentary Affairs, Transport and to the Auditor General. He then served as whip and deputy whip of the Bloc Québécois, and was also the vice-chair of the Standing Committee on Procedure and House Affairs.\n\nIn the 2014 provincial election, he ran unsuccessfully for the Parti Québécois to represent the riding of Montmorency.\n\nGuimond died of heart failure on January 19, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "35745276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35745276", "title": "Muhammad III of Shirvan", "text": "Muhammad III of Shirvan\n\nMuhammad III was the third Layzanshah (king of Layzan, r. 917-948) and the seventh Shirvanshah (king of Shirvan, r. 948-956). He was the son of Abu Tahir Yazid.\n\nMuhammad III is first mentioned in 917, when he was appointed as the ruler of Layzan and Tabarsaran by his father Abu Tahir ibn Yazid. When Muhammad's father died in 948, he succeeded him as the ruler of Shirvan, and appointed his son Ahmad as the ruler of Layzan, while his other son Haytham ibn Muhammad was appointed as the ruler of Tabarsaran. From 948 to 956, Muhammad constantly raided the territories of the non-Muslims, who are called \"infidels\" in Muslim sources.\n\nOn 4 June 956, Muhammad died of small-pox. However, according to another source, he was poisoned by his \"vizier\" Ibn al-Maraghi. The reason for that was because, when Muhammad was suffering from small-pox, Ibn al-Maraghi used the opportunity to kill the imprisoned brother of Muhammad and had his body hidden. When Muhammad miraculously survived the illness, he ordered the release of his brother. Ibn al-Maraghi, who feared that his life was in danger, had Muhammad poisoned. Ahmad then succeeded Muhammad as the ruler of Shirvan.\n\n"}
{"id": "34072435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34072435", "title": "Multiple layered plasmonics", "text": "Multiple layered plasmonics\n\nMultiple Layered Plasmonics use electronically responsive media to change and manipulate the plasmonic properties of plasmons. The properties typically being manipulated can include the directed scattering of light and light absorption. The use of these to use “changeable” plasmonics is currently undergoing development in the academic community by allowing them to have multiple sets of functions that are dependent on how they are being manipulated or excited. Under these new manipulations, such as multiple layers that respond to different resonant frequencies, their new functions were designed to accomplish multiple objectives in a single application.\n\nThis article provides an overview of current developing medical usage of multiple layered plasmonics, more specifically those developed by the Halas Group at Rice University\n\nIn addition to the bio-medical applications purposed, several other uses will be briefly described below.\n\nGold shelled nanoparticles, which are spherical nanoparticles with silica cores and gold shells, are used in cancer therapy and bio imaging enhancement.\nTheranostic probes – capable of detection and treatment of cancer in a single treatment - are nanoparticles that have binding sites on their shell that allow them to attach to a desired location (typically cancerous cells) then can be imaged through dual modality imagery (an imaging strategy that uses x-rays and radionuclide imaging) and through near-infrared fluorescence. The reason gold nanoparticles are used is due to their vivid optical properties which are controlled by their size, geometry, and their surface plasmons. Gold nanoparticles (such as AuNPs) have the benefit of being biocompatible and the flexibility to have multiple different molecules and fundamental materials, attached to their shell (almost anything that can normally be attached to gold can be attached to the gold nano-shell, helping in identifying and treating cancer). The treatment of cancer is possible only because of the scattering and absorption that occurs for plasmonics. Under scattering, the gold plated nanoparticles become visible to imaging processes that are tuned to the correct wavelength which is dependent upon the size and geometry of the particles. Under absorption, photothermal ablation occurs, which heats the nanoparticles and their immediate surroundings to temperatures capable of killing the surrounding cells. Additionally, these nanoparticles can be made to release antisense DNA oligonucleotides when under photo-activation. These oligonucleotides are used in conjunction with the photo-thermal ablation treatments to perform gene-therapy. This is accomplished because nanoparticle complexes are delivered inside of cells then undergo light induced release of DNA from their surface. This will allow for the internal manipulation of a cell and provide a means for monitoring a group cells return to equilibrium.\n\nAnother example of multiple layered plasmonics involves placing drugs inside of the nanoparticle and using it as a vehicle to deliver toxic drugs to cancerous sites only. This is accomplished by coating the outside of a nanoparticle with iron oxide (allowing for easy tracking with an MRI machine) then once the area of the tumor is coated with the drug filled nanoparticles, the nanoparticles can be activated using resonant light waves to release the drug.\n\nMultiple layered plasmonics can be coated in nanoparticles to modify or drive a reaction near a metallic surface when properly excited.\nAdditionally, the scattering of light from these plasmonics can be controlled and even directed based on the surface particles, geometry, and size.\n\nMultiple layered plasmonics can be used in harvesting solar radiation for energy applications. This is accomplished by redirecting incident light into the waveguide and evanescent surface modes of thin film photovoltaic devices.\nUsing multiple layered plasmons to purify water is also being investigated.\n\nFor more information on the research behind energy applications, and the collaborations behind this research, please visit the Halas group website listed below in the external links.\n\n"}
{"id": "34727371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34727371", "title": "Murder of Francesca Bimpson", "text": "Murder of Francesca Bimpson\n\nThe murder of Francesca Bimpson occurred on 2 December 2008 in the Everton district of Liverpool. Shortly after midnight, the Bimpson family's home was set on fire in what investigators determined to be arson. Francesca's mother, father, brother, and two sisters were able to escape from the burning home, but three-year-old Francesca was trapped in a bedroom and later rescued by firefighters. She died in a hospital on 23 December.\n\nAuthorities later arrested Graham Heaps in conjunction with the arson, alleging that the arson was an act of retaliation against the family after Francesca's aunt ended a romantic relationship with him between 4–5 months earlier. On 7 December 2009 Heaps was convicted of Francesca Bimpson's murder and sentenced to life imprisonment. He will be eligible for parole after serving 28 years.\n"}
{"id": "2920221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2920221", "title": "Murder of Philip Lawrence", "text": "Murder of Philip Lawrence\n\nPhilip Ambrose Lawrence, QGM (21 August 1947 — 8 December 1995) was a school headmaster who was stabbed to death outside the gates of his school in London, England, when he went to the aid of a pupil who was being attacked by a gang.\n\nLawrence was born in Dublin, Ireland, the son of a retired Indian Army colonel, and brought up in County Wicklow. He attended Ampleforth College and won an exhibition to read English at Queens' College, Cambridge, being awarded his BA in 1969 and his MA in 1970.\n\nIn the 1970s, he taught English at St. Benedict's School at Ealing Abbey, a Roman Catholic independent school. On 10 February 1973, he married Frances Huntley, a fellow teacher at the school; they had three daughters and a son.\n\nLawrence later became the Head of English at Gunnersbury Boys' School in Brentford, Deputy Headmaster at St. Mark's R.C. School, Hounslow, and later was named Headmaster of the Dick Sheppard School, a Lambeth comprehensive school. In 1993, he was appointed headmaster of St. George's Roman Catholic School, Maida Vale, regarded as a troubled school with poor exam results. He improved the academic reputation of the school, but problems with violence continued - often occurring when pupils were targeted by people from outside the school.\n\nThe Wo Shing Wo gang, which was mainly Filipino, aspired to be a junior version of the Triads. Twelve of the gang's members, led by 15-year-old Learco Chindamo, who was a pupil at another school and claimed to be a Triad member, went to St. George's school on 8 December 1995, to \"punish\" 13-year-old black pupil William Njoh, who had earlier quarrelled with a Filipino pupil. Lawrence saw them attack the boy with an iron bar and went outside to remonstrate with the gang. Chindamo punched Lawrence, then stabbed him in the chest; he died in hospital that evening. Chindamo was convicted of murder at the Old Bailey in October 1996, after a unanimous decision by the jury, and jailed indefinitely (as he was a juvenile at the time). The trial judge recommended that a minimum of 12 years should be served.\n\nChindamo had for years claimed that he was the victim of mistaken identity, and that the real killer was another boy who had borrowed his jacket, although he does not deny that he was present. During the trial it was shown that Chindamo's claim of links to Chinese Triad society was untruthful. On 10 October 1997, he lost his appeal. He was also a suspect in the non-fatal stabbing of a man named John Mills during a mugging in Camden several months before Lawrence's murder. Chindamo was born in Italy to a father from Italy and a mother from the Philippines. Chindamo and his mother moved to the UK when he was six.\n\nThe case increased the level of concern expressed about levels of violence involving school-age youths, and the safety of pupils and staff while in school, which were beginning to become public issues in the United Kingdom in the early 1990s. This followed the fatal stabbing of 12-year-old Nikki Conroy by a mentally ill intruder at her Middlesbrough school in March 1994. Just three months after the murder of Philip Lawrence, 16 young children and their teacher were shot dead by intruder Thomas Hamilton at their school in Dunblane, Scotland. Shortly afterwards, nursery nurse Lisa Potts and several toddlers were wounded by machete-welding intruder Horrett Campbell at a nursery school in Wolverhampton. These incidents all contributed to major improvements in security at schools across Britain, particularly in areas with high crime rates.\n\nPhilip Lawrence was posthumously awarded the Queen's Gallantry Medal (QGM) on 14 June 1997.\n\nThe \"Philip Lawrence Awards\" were instituted by the then Home Secretary Michael Howard in Lawrence's honour, and were first presented on 15 March 1997. They honour outstanding achievement by young people aged between 11 and 20. Lawrence's widow Frances was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2009 Birthday Honours for services to charity, for her role in setting up the award.\n\nIn August 2007, an Asylum and Immigration Tribunal ruled that Chindamo could not be deported to his home country of Italy on completion of his prison sentence. He had resided in the UK for 19 years, long enough to make him a permanent resident under EU law after discounting 10 years spent in jail. As such, only 'serious grounds of...public security' could justify his expulsion. The tribunal disagreed with the Home Office's argument that this threshold was reached in Chindamo's case. The tribunal found that even if the EU law argument had failed, he would have a right to stay under human rights law. In the exceptional circumstances of his having lived in England since age 6, an Article 8 right to \"family life\" was found in relation to his mother and siblings.\n\nThe decision was severely criticised by Frances Lawrence, Philip Lawrence's widow. David Cameron, as leader of the opposition, argued that the case showed the Human Rights Act 1998 'has to go' and be replaced by a \"British Bill of Rights\".\n\nIn July 2010, after a parole board recommended his release, Chindamo made a statement saying \"I did a terrible thing when I killed Mr Lawrence... I have been rightly punished and I have always understood that I should not be released until I had changed and was no longer dangerous... I know that some people will not be able to accept that I have changed or that I should be allowed my freedom. I also know that I will spend the rest of my life atoning for my crime, and mean to do so by living quietly and decently.\" He was freed shortly afterwards, after serving 14 years of his life sentence.\n\nOn 24 November 2010, just four months after being paroled, Chindamo was arrested in Catford and detained by police for questioning in connection with a mugging. He is alleged to have threatened to kill a man before robbing him of a wallet and mobile phone in Camden. As a result of his arrest and remand in custody Chindamo was recalled to custody under the terms of the life licence which comes with his original life sentence. On 24 August 2011, Chindamo and his two co-defendants were acquitted of robbery. He remained in custody under the terms of his life license as he was adjudged to present a risk. On 2 May 2014, the Parole Board announced its approval of Chindamo's re-release from custody after serving three-and-a-half years.\n\n"}
{"id": "38166933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38166933", "title": "Murder of Yaseen Ege", "text": "Murder of Yaseen Ege\n\nYaseen Ege was a seven-year-old Asian Muslim boy killed by his mother, Sara Ege, at their home in Cardiff in the United Kingdom on 12 July, 2010, for failing to memorise the Quran. In the months preceding his death, Yaseen was routinely beaten. On the day he died, Yaseen had severe abdominal injuries and multiple fractures. Ms. Ege burnt her son's body in an attempt to destroy the evidence and was later arrested and convicted of murder, for which she received a life sentence.\n\nYaseen's parents wanted him to become a hafiz to increase the family's standing in the local community, but his mother became frustrated with her son's inability to memorise the Quran. \n\nFor three months before his death, Yaseen was repeatedly beaten and suffered numerous internal injuries due to his mother's frustration. Ege told police officers, \"I was getting more and more frustrated. If he didn’t read it properly I would be very angry – I would hit him.\" Yaseen was allegedly locked in a shed and tied to a door as punishment for failing at his studies. After Yaseen started school, teachers became concerned about his well-being. One teacher observed that Yaseen's handwriting was untidy and that he was using his left hand rather than his right one. Yaseen explained that his hand hurt because his mother had struck him with a ruler.\n\nOn the day of his death, Sara kept her son home from school to focus on memorizing the Quran. She was angry at his lack of progress and attacked him. Yaseen collapsed but continued to murmur extracts of the Quran. His mother undressed him, gave him some milk, and then dragged him to his bedroom. His mother said he was repeatedly muttering the same verse and she thought he was just tired and left him. She returned to the room a few minutes later and found Yaseen convulsing on the floor before dying soon after.\n\nAfter Yaseen's death, Ms. Ege used barbecue gel to burn her son's body to destroy the evidence and set fire to the family home. It was initially thought that Yaseen had died in the blaze but investigations proved he had died several hours earlier. Pathologists discovered that Yaseen had broken ribs, a fractured arm and a fractured finger among other injuries, and lighter fuel was found on Ms. Ege's clothing.\n\nMs. Ege said that she had hit Yaseen \"with a stick on his back like a dog\" but also said that her husband, Yousef, was a violent person who had beaten her and her son and was responsible for Yaseen's death. She said her husband had threatened to kill her if she did not accept responsibility. Her husband was cleared of allowing his son’s death by failing to act to prevent the abuse. Sara was found guilty of murder and perverting the course of justice at Cardiff Crown Court and was sentenced to life imprisonment, with a minimum term of 17 years.\n\nThe case review by Cardiff's safeguarding children board found that in 2003, concerns regarding domestic violence were raised to a women's safety unit, though these were not reported to the police or children's services. Further reports of domestic violence were made in 2007. Although that several agencies had tried to support the mother, those efforts were \"not part of a co-ordinated\nplan.\" The review made a number of recommendations that were accepted by the Cardiff safeguarding children board.\n"}
{"id": "24682435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24682435", "title": "Myron Brinig", "text": "Myron Brinig\n\nMyron Brinig (December 22, 1896 – May 13, 1991) was a Jewish-American author who wrote twenty-one novels from 1929 to 1958.\n\nBrinig was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota to Romanian parents, but grew up in Butte, Montana. Brinig began studying at New York University in 1914, where poet Joyce Kilmer gave him lectures on writing. He then studied at Columbia University and started his career by writing short stories for magazines. Brinig's first novel, \"Madonna Without Child\", was released in 1929. Published by Doubleday, the novel tells the story of a woman who is obsessed with another woman's baby.\n\nMany of Brinig's early novels depicted the settlement and development of Montana, the state he grew up in. These novels include \"Singermann\" (1929), \"Wide Open Town\" (1931), \"This Man Is My Brother\" (1932), and \"The Sun Sets in the West\" (1935). Brinig based the main character of these novels, Singermann, on his father, Maurice Brinig, who was a Romanian immigrant and shopkeeper. Brinig's novels often depicted miners, labor organizers, farmers, and businessmen living in Montana. These usually became bestsellers in the United States and were praised by critics of \"The New York Times\". One of the best-selling novels, \"The Sisters\", was adapted to a feature-length film in 1938, starring Bette Davis and Errol Flynn.\n\nBrinig's novels often dealt with homosexuality. It was a common theme for Brinig because he was a homosexual himself (although he was publicly closeted all his life). According to the Gay & Lesbian Literary Heritage, Brinig was the \"first American Jewish novelist to write in any significant way about the gay experience.\"\n\nIn 1951, \"The New York Times Book Review\" said Brinig's \"sentimental streak and his sympathetic touch with characters usually lend his books a warm glow of humanity, if not of art.\" At the beginning of his career, Brinig was praised by critics for his \"artistry and inventivenss in narrative, character and incident.\" In the early 1930s, he was described as one of the leading young writers in America. Brinig's last novels, however, were met with mixed reviews from critics, who criticized them for their \"verbosity and banality.\" Brinig died on May 13, 1991. The cause of his death was gastrointestinal hemorrhage.\n"}
{"id": "10290793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10290793", "title": "Nat Hicks", "text": "Nat Hicks\n\nNathaniel Woodhull \"Nat\" Hicks (April 19, 1845 – April 21, 1907) was an American professional baseball player. He played as a catcher in Major League Baseball for six seasons, two in the National League. Hicks was one of the first catchers to stand directly behind the batter, which allowed future Hall of Fame pitcher, Candy Cummings to develop the first curveball used in baseball. A popular and highly regarded player during his time in baseball, but injuries sustained over the course of his career cut his playing time short.\n\nBorn in Hempstead, New York, Hicks served briefly in the 15th New York Infantry Regiment near the end of the American Civil War. He began playing professional baseball in the National Association of Base Ball Players through , most notably for the Eckford of Brooklyn. Hicks' pivotal role in the development of the curveball is seldom mentioned. Most catchers of his era stood twenty to twenty-five feet behind the batter, which made it impossible to field a curveball. It was Hicks' catching technique of standing directly behind the batter, that allowed Cummings to introduce his curveball. The introduction of the curveball not only caused a revolutionary change in the way catchers fielded their position, but also radically changed pitching as well.\n\nHe later moved on and spent most of his career playing in the National Association. He joined the New York Mutuals in where he was reunited with Cummings, and became their everyday catcher. He batted .306 that season as the Mutuals finished third. Hicks returned with the Mutuals in , but that season saw his skills decline significantly both in the field and at the bat. He played in only 28 games and shared the catching duties that season with Dick Higham and Doug Allison.\n\nOn July 24, 1873, Bob Ferguson of the Brooklyn Atlantics was the umpire in a game between the New York Mutuals and the Baltimore Canaries which ended with the Mutuals scoring 3 runs in the bottom of the 9th inning for an 11-10 victory. Ferguson and the Mutuals' Hicks got into a verbal altercation which ended with Ferguson breaking Hicks' arm by hitting him with a bat. Ferguson required a police escort to leave the field and Hicks was out of action for 2 months.\n\nHicks changed teams in , joining the Philadelphia White Stockings where he was once again reunited with Cummings, and enjoyed a bounce back season, batting .274, and caught every game the team played. He returned to the mutuals in when he was named the player-manager, the only stint as a manager in his career. There is some dispute with this notion, as other baseball references have him as player-manager for the White Stockings the previous year as well, instead of Bill Craver. When the Association folded, the Mutuals and Hicks moved over to the newly formed National League in , and then finished his career with the Cincinnati Reds.\n\nAfter his baseball days were over, he became a professional singer and proprietor of a billiard academy. While Cummings went on to become enshrined in the Baseball Hall of Fame, Hicks' role in the development of the curveball is rarely mentioned. Hicks died in Hoboken, New Jersey at the age of 62 of accidental gas asphyxiation in a hotel room, and was interred in St. Peter Cemetery in Jersey City, New Jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "35650165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35650165", "title": "Nuptial gift", "text": "Nuptial gift\n\nA nuptial gift is often referred to as a token that is presented to a female by a male in order to copulate. This definition, however, is not wrong, but not completely correct. Nuptial gifting is at the intersection of sexual selection, nutritional ecology and life history theory, creating a link between the three. Nuptial gifts are both widespread and diverse. An accurate definition of a nuptial gift would be a material presentation to a recipient by a donor that is not simply the gametes in order to improve the fitness of the donor.This definition insinuates neutral gifts, costly gifts and beneficial gifts regarding the fitness of the recipient.It also encompasses hermaphrodite nuptial gift exchange where the gift giving is often bidirectional as well as encompassing female to male gift giving. Inedible tokens may include items such as a fragment of leaf or twig, a seed tuft, or a silk balloon. In many species of animals, including birds, insects, and spiders, this takes the form of a food item that is transferred from a male to a female just prior to copulation. This is a behaviour known as courtship feeding. \n\nNuptial gifts vary but can mostly classified within two main dimensions:\n\nThere are three ways in which a gift may be received. The first being an oral gift, which is absorbed through the digestive system of the recipient. The second is genital gifts; the gift is absorbed through the reproductive tract. Lastly, there are transdermal gifts which are injected into the body wall of the recipient by the donor.\n\nThere are two types of gifts; endogenous gifts and exogenous gifts.\n\nEndogenous gifts are those that are made by the donor. These gifts often carry great cost to the donor and usually contain hemolymph or body parts. For instance, endogenous oral gifts are secreted by the donors glands (salivary, reproductive, etc). They often carry nutrients that are severally lacking in the body of the recipient, these include types of macronutrients, micronutrients, water and defensive chemicals. A study was done on the moth \"Utetheisa ornatrix,\" where the male gifted the female with defensive alkaloids in order to reduce predation of the larvae and eggs of the female, an excellent example of defensive chemicals. Not only are some of the gifts that are presented to females not nutritionally based, but they can actually affect the fitness of the recipient. For instance, in some hermaphroditic land snails, one partner (the donor) shoots a mucus covered dart at the other called a love dart (the recipient). This ultimately increases the fitness of the donor but at a great risk to the recipient. This dart changes the sperm storage ability of the receiver, not to mention the risk of injury from the dart itself. If shot in the incorrect place, the dart could puncture vital organs of the receiver resulting in permanent reproductive ability damage or death.\n\nExogenous gifts are food items that the donor would capture or collect in order to present to the recipient. These can include seeds, prey items and leaves but can also include non-nutritive things as well like rocks. Gifts such as these increase the chances of the donors mating success and the duration of copulation.\n\nNuptial gifts can also be classified into oral and seminal gifts. Seminal gifts may be tokens that do not have any direct value as food but may serve as an indicator of male fitness. In some species of insects such as katydids, the nuptial gift is packaged with the sperm of the male. The package is an edible spermatophore. These extra nutrients in the sperm are assimilated by the female and are thought to enhance the fitness of the offspring produced, thus increasing the probability that a male passes on its genes.\n\nNuptial gifts are common in insects and other invertebrates, such as butterflies, fruit flies and katydids. They are less common in spiders, though the spider species \"Pisaura mirabilis\" is known for nuptial gift giving. However, this may in part be due to an experimental bias due to the ease of rearing it for experiments. Other taxa may commonly exhibit gift-giving behavior. Thus, more research is required to evaluate the scope of nuptial gifts in arachnid taxa. In many species of insects, birds and mammals, males acquire and donate food to females either before, during, or after copulation (termed mate provisioning, courtship feeding, nuptial gift giving, or meat-for-sex). Males may relinquish body parts, produce glandular secretions, or share prey or other food to gain fitness benefits via natural and sexual selection.\n\nCourtship feeding is particularly common among many bird species.\n\nA popular and more occurring area of study is the male presenting the nuptial gift to the female, however, the reverse does occur. Female Zeus bugs, \"Phoreticovelia disparata,\" actually present the male with a food item before copulation. After the food item is presented to the male, he will ride on the back of the female in a small hallow. As he rides on her back she secretes a wax from a gland on the back of her head. The male will ride on the back of the female for up to a week, eating the wax feed she secretes; she is able to secrete this wax until the male decides to leave. Once the sperm is finally deposited, it will allow the female to lay fertile eggs for up to two weeks. At first, it appeared that there were no obvious advantages to the female in this scenario, upon closer inspection scientists believe that by allowing the male to remain, it is energetically efficient for the female. She saves energy. She does not have to fight off the male, or any other male that attempts to copulate with her, she is guaranteed the ability to reproduce, it also greatly reduces the risk of harming herself in combat.\n\nThe male great grey shrike, a raptor-like passerine bird, gives prey (rodents, birds, lizards, or large insects) to females immediately before copulation. Shrikes are well known for impaling prey on thorns and sharp sprigs. Great grey shrike females select a mate according to the size of prey impaled, with larders thus serving as an extended phenotype of a male. If the amount of food stored by the males can drive female mate choice, food provided by males before copulation may also influence the female's decision to copulate. This applies both to the male's own partner and to other females.\n\nIn spiders, nuptial gifts in the form of prey are restricted to a few species from two families belonging to the superfamily Lycosoidea: Pisauridae and Trechaleidae. In both families, the male courts the female by offering a prey wrapped in silk and mating occurs while the female consumes the gift. In the species \"Pisaura mirabilis\" (Pisauridae), the gift functions as a mating effort that increases male mating success. The nuptial gift consists of a prey the male has caught and wrapped up in silk. The male offers this gift during courtship, and if the female accepts the invitation, she grabs the wrapped prey. While the female is eating, the male inserts the mating organ, and sperm is transferred.\n\nA similar function was recently suggested for the trechaleid spider, \"Paratrechalea ornata\". In both species, males can obtain mating without a gift, but male mating success increases dramatically when a gift is offered. In \"Pisaura mirabilis\", the male pushes up the female during mating and performs alternate pedipalp insertions into the female sperm storage organs place ventrally on the abdomen. After each insertion the male returns to a face-to-face position with the female, grabbing the gift in the chelicerae. Females often control mating duration and they often attempt to run away with the gift upon terminating the copulation.\n\nFemales are less likely to succeed in stealing a wrapped – rather than an unwrapped – gift due to the silk wrapping of the gift. The silk wrapping facilitates male handling and control over the gift, as it facilitates a stronger hold of the silk covered package versus an unwrapped insect. Male spiders have a unique opportunity for gift manipulation through the gift wrapping trait, for example by preventing female assessment of the gift content. By disguising the gift content, males may deceive females to copulate, while the female attempts to consume the gift. In \"Paratrechalea ornata\", males were observed wrapping prey carrion and occasionally inedible items such as plant seeds. In \"Pisaura mirabilis\", males have been reported to carry gifts containing empty arthropod exoskeletons or plant parts: gifts of no nutritional value. However, some studies have shown that male spiders rarely cheat in nature. Cogent reasons for this disparate behavior are being explored. It is possible there are confounding factors which do not account for ecological implications. Other research suggests that sensory bias is not the main contributing force behind gift selection in \"P. mirabilis\". Females did not preferentially select unwrapped gifts over wrapped gifts.\n\nNuptial gift behavior has been seen in the spider species \"Paratrechalea ornata\", a Neotropical spider belonging to the Trechaleidae spider family. \"Paratrechalea ornata\" males may present either a wrapped or an unwrapped nuptial prey gift. Prey wrapping seems to be triggered by perception of cues on the female's silk and increases in frequency according to the male's age.\n\nIn decorated crickets, \"Gryllodes sigillatus\" (Orthoptera: Gryllidae), the nuptial food gift is a spermatophylax (a large, gelatinous, sperm-free mass) that surrounds a smaller, sperm-containing ampulla. Together, the spermatophylax and the ampulla constitute the male’s spermatophore, which is transferred to the female during copulation and remains attached outside her body at the base of her ovipositor. After mating, the female detaches the spermatophylax from the ampulla and feeds on it while the ampulla remains attached and is emptied of sperm. Once the female has consumed or discarded the spermatophylax, she removes the sperm ampulla, terminating sperm transfer. Female cooperation is required for successful spermatophore transfer, and thus, males cannot impose copulations on females.\n\nBushcricket males offer a spermatophylax containing an ampulla. The nuptial gift is also protein-rich, which the females ingest into their reproductive tract. The size of the nuptial gifts positively influences the females refractory period and the males reproduction success. The size of the gift depends on the ampulla and serves as a sperm protection. In bushcrickets \"Ephippiger ephippiger\", the females prefer older males, who have larger spermophores and better nutritional value during mating. The nutritional value is related to the female's metabolism, which stands as a benefit for females feeding on the semaphores. Sometimes males produce lower dosages of sperm with a lower nutritional value the fourth time they mate. It may be possible the females are using age and gift quality as a proxy for mates with good genes as their offspring are likely to have high relative fitness.\n\nDuring mating in the ornate moth (\"Utetheisa ornatrix\"), males provide the female with a spermatophore containing nutrients, sperm and alkaloids that serve as chemical defense from predators. Such nuptial gift accounts for up to 10% of the male's body weight and represents the total parental investment the male provides. Females receive spermatophores from several males and direct a postcopulatory selection process in which they decide what sperm will fertilize their eggs.\n\nThe males of the species \"Ostrinia scapulalis\" provides proteins, carbohydrates, minerals, and sugars that are included in the spermatophore. This is their nuptial gift to the female. They are known to improve the female's reproductive output. The gifts are provided at a substantial cost to the male. Older males thus tend to produce larger spermatophores with more nuptial gift content since there are less future reproductive episodes possible for them.\n\nIn the comma butterfly (\"Polygonia c-album\"), males provide females with nutrients and protein via the nuptial gift to entice the polyandrous females to mate. Females are able to recognize and preferentially mate with males reared on higher-quality host plants as larvae, because they are able to provide superior nuptial gifts with higher protein and spermatophore content. When females mated with males that could provide larger investments, they were seen to not only allocate more resources to their egg production, but also to themselves in the form of female life expectancy, female maintenance, and future reproduction.\n\nNuptial gifts can be given by butterflies such as the \"Parnassius smintheus\", consisting of the male depositing a waxy genital plug onto the tip of the female butterfly's abdomen during copulation. It contains sperm and important nutrients for the female. This also ensures that the male is the only one to fertilize the female’s eggs, as it prevents the female from mating again.\n\nNuptial gifts are widespread in insects such as the six-spot burnet (\"Zygaena filipendulae\"), and comprise food items or glandular products offered as paternal investment in offspring and/or to promote mating. Female Zygaena may use this gift for her own defense and to protect her eggs.\n\nIn the scorpionfly \"Panorpa cognata\", males offer a salivary secretion as a nuptial gift before copulation. Exchange of the salivary secretion takes place after prolonged courtship interactions. The nuptial gift is more likely to be accepted by the female if premating duration is long. Males in poor condition with a limited supply of saliva may deliberately delay initiating copulations to decrease the probability that their costly gift is rejected and, thus, wasted. Males in good condition with ample mating resources, on the other hand, may afford the risk of wasting a salivary mass and therefore take every opportunity to mate.\n\nMale sperm offers many nutrients to increase a female's lifetime and egg production. These nutrients include acids or sodium. Male sperm also protects females and their eggs from predators. The females would also gain a net benefit from a male's sperm. Female recipients are supposed to produce bigger offspring than those females who did not receive nuptial gifts. The eggs of female spiders who receive nuptial gifts may hatch at a higher rate than those without nuptial gifts. Historically, nuptial gifts were seen as nutritional substances given to females from males during mating. The male benefits from a net fitness. Although the gifts are costly to find or produce, the gifts will increase attraction and copulation with other females. One of the more recently identified costs to males is reduced running speed due to gift-carrying. This cost may be exacerbated in areas of high predation. Nuptial gifts can benefit a male by increasing his paternity share when females are promiscuous. In some insects, nuptial gifts allow the male to copulate longer and transfer more sperm to the female. In fruit flies, katydids, and scorpion flies, nuptial gifts contain substances that reduce a female’s receptivity to additional matings. While nuptial gifts also may boost female fecundity, from a male’s perspective, such investment will only be beneficial if it increases the number of his own offspring. In bell crickets, nuptial gifts may be necessary to avoid injury or death by cannibalizing females. This additional benefit allows gift-giving males to surpass the fitness of other males. In this way, females are exploiting the inherent sexual dimorphism of their species.\n\nIn species where males provide females with a nuptial gift during mating, there is a particular scope for males to manipulate females to acquire matings and prolong copulation to enhance their fertilization success. Typically, females control the duration and volume of sperm transfer throughout the mating process. Research has suggested that the gifts presented by males temporarily obstruct the female's capacity to manage the copulation event. Female choice for males with nuptial gifts could lead to the evolution of male deception by the use of token gifts. For instance, males can decrease the costs of mating by re-using gifts or by offering worthless gifts. Males of some dance flies may deceive females by offering inadequate or false gifts. Although males that offer inedible gifts run a higher risk of being rejected and may suffer from shorter mating periods compared to males offering edible gifts the chance of acquiring an extra mating should make deception an attractive strategy for males. Hence, males of the dance fly Rhamphomyia sulcata that use inedible token gifts to obtain mates are as successful as males offering small genuine gifts.\n\nWhen nuptial gifts are given it increases copulations and searches to find females to mate with. Albo and Costa conducted an experiment with \"Paratrechala ornata\" spiders to determine the function of the nuptial gift. Two groups of males were exposed to virgin females, 23 males with no nuptial gift (prey) and 21 males with a nuptial gift (prey). Mating ovulation were recorded and the researchers found that males that gave a nuptial gift had better mating success, longer copulations, and longer palpal insertions than those who did not give an nuptial gift. Longer copulations were associated with earlier egg sac construction and oviposition. The researchers' findings suggest that nuptial gift giving represents male mating effort for \"P. ornata\". Nuptial gifts would allow males to control copulation duration and to accelerate female oviposition, improving sperm supply and paternity, and minimizing possible costs of remating with polyandrous individuals. Additionally, Prokop found that female mate choice is dependent on nuptial gifts rather than female reproductive status as an unmated or mated individual. This effect demonstrates sexual selection's ability to make one sex more discriminatory than the other, since females may negatively impact their output of offspring by refusing mating events with males that do not offer gifts.\n\nNuptial gift giving is often described in such a way that it only really affects the male counterpart. Nuptial gifting is also of benefit to the female. It has been shown that female fireflies will route spermatophore (contain sperm and are produced by the accessory gland) nutrients throughout their body from a few hours up to a few days. One major benefit of this is that now the female does not have to hunt or graze as frequently, limiting her exposure to predation. Females also have the ability to direct the nutrition from the nuptial gift to the part of the body that needs it the most. Often times it is directed towards metabolism. This can be seen within female Bushcrickets. An experiment was conducted whereby there were two groups of males, one group was fed high levels of C the other, low levels. These males then presented their gifts to the females and the isotopic changes in exhaled breath of the females were measured after consumption. Within 3 hours, the stable carbon isotope ratio of the breath was the same as the ratio of male donors gift, proving that the female had directed the extra nutrients to metabolism.\n\n"}
{"id": "42361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42361", "title": "On the Waterfront", "text": "On the Waterfront\n\nOn the Waterfront is a 1954 American crime drama film directed by Elia Kazan, and written by Budd Schulberg. It stars Marlon Brando, and features Karl Malden, Lee J. Cobb, Rod Steiger, Pat Henning and Eva Marie Saint in her film debut. The soundtrack score was composed by Leonard Bernstein. The film was suggested by \"Crime on the Waterfront\" by Malcolm Johnson, a series of articles published in November–December 1948 in the \"New York Sun\" which won the 1949 Pulitzer Prize for Local Reporting, but the screenplay by Budd Schulberg is directly based on his own original story. The film focuses on union violence and corruption amongst longshoremen, while detailing widespread corruption, extortion, and racketeering on the waterfronts of Hoboken, New Jersey.\n\n\"On the Waterfront\" was a critical and commercial success, and received twelve Academy Award nominations, winning eight, including Best Picture, Best Actor for Brando, Best Supporting Actress for Saint, and Best Director for Kazan. In 1997, it was ranked by the American Film Institute as the eighth-greatest American movie of all time, and in AFI's 2007 list, it was ranked 19th. It is Bernstein's only original film score not adapted from a stage production with songs.\n\nIn 1989, \"On the Waterfront\" was deemed \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\" by the Library of Congress, and selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry.\n\nMob-connected union boss Johnny Friendly (Lee J. Cobb) gloats about his iron-fisted control of the waterfront. The police and the Waterfront Crime Commission know that Friendly is behind a number of murders, but witnesses play \"D and D\" (\"deaf and dumb\"), accepting their subservient position, rather than risking the danger and shame of informing.\n\nTerry Malloy (Marlon Brando) is a dockworker whose brother Charley \"the Gent\" (Rod Steiger) is Friendly's right-hand man. Some years earlier, Terry had been a promising boxer, until Friendly had Charley instruct him to deliberately lose a fight that he could have won, so that Friendly could win money betting against him. Terry is used to coax Joey Doyle (Ben Wagner), a popular dockworker, into an ambush, preventing Joey from testifying against Friendly before the Crime Commission. Terry assumed that Friendly's enforcers were only going to \"lean\" on Joey to pressure him into silence, and is surprised when Joey is killed.\n\nJoey's sister Edie (Eva Marie Saint), angry about her brother's death, shames \"waterfront priest\" Father Barry (Karl Malden) into fomenting action against the mob-controlled union. Friendly sends Terry to attend and inform on a dockworkers' meeting Father Barry holds in the church, which is broken up by Friendly's men. Terry helps Edie escape the violence, and is smitten with her. Another dockworker, Timothy J. \"Kayo\" Dugan (Pat Henning), who agrees to testify after Father Barry promises unwavering support, ends up dead after Friendly arranges for him to be crushed by a load of whiskey in a staged accident.\n\nAlthough Terry resents being used as a tool in Joey's death, and despite Father Barry's impassioned \"sermon on the docks\" reminding the longshoremen that Christ walks among them and that every murder is a Calvary, Terry is at first willing to remain \"D and D\", even when subpoenaed to testify. However, when Edie, unaware of Terry's role in her brother's death, begins to return Terry's feelings, Terry is tormented by his awakening conscience and confesses the circumstances of Joey's death to Father Barry and Edie. Horrified, Edie breaks up with him.\n\nAs Terry increasingly leans toward testifying, Friendly decides that Terry must be killed unless Charley can coerce him into keeping quiet. Charley tries bribing Terry with a good job and finally threatens Terry by holding a gun against him, but recognizes that he has failed to sway Terry, who blames his own downward spiral on his well-off brother. In what has become an iconic scene, Terry reminds Charley that had it not been for the fixed fight, Terry's prizefighting career would have bloomed. \"I coulda' been somebody. I coulda' been a contender\", laments Terry to his brother, \"Instead of a bum, which is what I am – let's face it.\" Charley gives Terry the gun, and advises him to run. Terry flees to Edie's apartment, where she first refuses to let him in, but finally admits her love for him. Friendly, having had Charley watched, has Charley murdered and his body hung in an alley as bait to lure Terry out to his death, but Terry and Edie both escape the attempt on Terry's life.\n\nAfter finding Charley's body, Terry sets out to shoot Friendly, but Father Barry prevents it by blocking Terry's line of fire and convincing Terry to fight Friendly by testifying instead. Terry proceeds to give damaging testimony implicating Friendly in Joey's murder and other illegal activities, causing Friendly's mob boss to cut him off and Friendly to face indictment.\n\nAfter the testimony, Friendly announces that Terry will not find employment anywhere on the waterfront. Terry is shunned by his former friends and by a neighborhood boy who had previously looked up to him. Refusing Edie's suggestion that they move away from the waterfront together, Terry shows up during recruitment at the docks. When he is the only man not hired, Terry openly confronts Friendly, calling him out and proclaiming that he is proud of what he did. The confrontation develops into a vicious brawl, with Terry getting the upper hand until Friendly's thugs gang up on Terry and nearly beat him to death. The dockworkers, who witness the confrontation, show their support for Terry by refusing to work, unless Terry is working, too, and pushing Friendly into the river. Encouraged by Father Barry and Edie, the badly injured Terry forces himself to his feet and enters the dock, followed by the other workers. A soaking wet and face-scarred Friendly, now left with nothing, swears revenge on them all, but his threats fall on deaf ears as they enter the garage, and the door closes behind them.\n\n\nThe film is widely considered to be Elia Kazan's answer to those who criticized him for identifying eight (former) Communists in the film industry before the House Committee on Un-American Activities (HUAC) in 1952. One of Kazan's critics was his friend and collaborator, the noted playwright Arthur Miller, who had earlier written the first version of the script, originally entitled \"The Hook\". Kazan had agreed to direct it, and in 1951 they met with Harry Cohn at Columbia Pictures about making the picture. Cohn agreed in principle to make \"The Hook\", but there were concerns about the portrayal of corrupt union officials. When Cohn asked the antagonists be changed to Communists, Miller refused. Cohn sent a letter telling Miller it was interesting he had resisted Columbia's desire to make the movie \"pro-American\". Kazan asked Miller to rewrite the script; Miller declined due to his disenchantment with Kazan's friendly testimony before the HUAC. Kazan then replaced Miller with Budd Schulberg.\n\nAfter rewriting the script, Schulberg and Kazan approached Darryl F. Zanuck, who eventually told them he did not like a single thing about the script, asking, \"Who's going to care about a bunch of sweaty longshoremen?\" This led Kazan and Schulberg to meet with independent producer Sam Spiegel, who set up a deal with Columbia. Spiegel was insistent on Schulberg delivering a perfect screenplay, and barraged the writer with changes and suggestions, to the frustration of Schulberg.\n\nSchulberg's script nonetheless went through a number of changes before reaching the screen. In an early draft, the Terry Malloy character was not an ex-pug dockworker, but a cynical investigative reporter, as well as an older, divorced man.\n\nTerry Malloy's fight against corruption was in part modeled after whistle-blowing longshoreman Anthony DeVincenzo, who testified before a real-life Waterfront Commission about activities on the Hoboken Docks and suffered a degree of ostracism for his deed. DeVincenzo sued and settled, many years after, with Columbia Pictures over the appropriation of what he considered his story. DeVincenzo claimed to have recounted his story to screenwriter Budd Schulberg during a month-long session of waterfront barroom meetings. Schulberg attended DeVincenzo's waterfront commission testimony every day during the hearing.\n\nThe character of Father Barry was based on the real-life \"waterfront priest\" Father John M. Corridan, a Jesuit priest and graduate of Regis High School who operated a Roman Catholic labor school on the west side of Manhattan. Father Corridan was interviewed extensively by Schulberg, who also wrote the foreword to a biography of Father Corridan, \"Waterfront Priest\" by Allen Raymond.\n\nThe character of Johnny Friendly was partially based on International Longshoremen's Association boss Michael Clemente. Friendly also had aspects of former Murder, Inc. head Albert Anastasia, who was a top enforcer for the crime family that ran the Hoboken docks, the Lucianolater Genovesefamily. In 1979, Clemente and other members of the Genovese family were indicted for corruption and racketeering on the New York waterfront.\n\nAccording to Richard Schickel in his biography of Kazan, Marlon Brando initially refused the role of Terry Malloy, and Frank Sinatra (a native of Hoboken, where the film was being made) then had \"a handshake deal\"but no formally signed contractto play the part, even attending an initial costume fitting. But Kazan still favored Brando for the role, partly because casting Brando would assure a larger budget for the picture. While Brando's agent, Jay Kanter, attempted to persuade Brando to change his mind, Kazan enlisted actor Karl Malden, whom Kazan considered more suited to a career as a director than as an actor, to direct and film a screen test of a \"more Brando-like\" actor as Terry Malloy, in an effort to persuade Spiegel that \"an actor like Marlon Brando\" could perform the role more forcefully than Sinatra. To that end, Malden filmed a screen test of Actors Studio members Paul Newman and Joanne Woodward performing the love scene between Terry and Edie. Persuaded by the Newman/Woodward screen test, Spiegel agreed to reconsider Brando for the role, and shortly afterwards, Kanter convinced Brando to reconsider his refusal. Within a week, Brando signed a contract to perform in the film. At that point, a furious Sinatra demanded to be cast in the role of Father Barry, the waterfront priest. It was left to Spiegel to break the news to Sinatra that Malden had already been signed for that role.\n\nThe part of Edie Doyle was offered to Grace Kelly, who turned it down, preferring to make \"Rear Window\" instead. Kazan said in his autobiography \"A Life\" that the choice of an actress to play Edie Doyle was narrowed down to Elizabeth Montgomery and Eva Marie Saint. There was something well-bred about Montgomery that Kazan thought would not be becoming for Edie, who was raised on the waterfront in Hoboken, New Jersey. He gave the part to Saint.\n\nThe role of Terry's older brother Charley was originally offered to Lawrence Tierney, who asked for too much money, so the role went to Rod Steiger. Despite playing Terry's older brother, Steiger was one year younger than Brando.\n\nSeveral of the labor boss' men in the film, including Abe Simon as Barney, Tony Galento as Truck, and Tami Mauriello as Tillio, were former professional heavyweight boxers in real life.\n\n\"On the Waterfront\" was filmed over 36 days on location in various places in Hoboken, New Jersey, including the docks, workers' slum dwellings, bars, littered alleys, and rooftops. The church used for exterior scenes in the film was the historic Our Lady of Grace, built in 1874, while the interiors were shot at the Church of St. Peter and St. Paul at 400 Hudson Street.\n\nUpon its release, the film received positive reviews from critics, and was a commercial success, earning an estimated $4.2 million at the North American box office in 1954. In his July 29, 1954, review, \"New York Times\" critic A. H. Weiler called the film \"an uncommonly powerful, exciting, and imaginative use of the screen by gifted professionals\".\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a critical score of 98% with an average rating of 9.2/10 and a critical consensus of \"With his electrifying performance in Elia Kazan's thought-provoking, expertly constructed melodrama, Marlon Brando redefined the possibilities of acting for film and helped permanently alter the cinematic landscape\".\n\nAcademy Awards\n\n\"On the Waterfront\" received twelve Academy Awards nominations in ten categories, and won in eight of the categories.\nAmerican Film Institute recognition\n\nLegacy\n\nIn 1989, the film was deemed \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\" by the Library of Congress, and selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry. It is also on the Vatican's list of 45 greatest films, compiled in 1995.\n\n The first home video release of the film was by Columbia Pictures Home Entertainment in 1982, on VHS and Beta. RCA/Columbia Pictures Home Video later re-released it in 1984, 1986, and 1990, respectively, the latter being a part of the Columbia Classics line-up. Columbia TriStar later reissued the film on VHS in 1995 as part of the line-up's \"Studio Heritage Collection\", and the first DVD version was released in 2001. Among the special features is the featurette \"Contender: Mastering the Method\", a video photo gallery, an interview with Elia Kazan, an audio commentary, filmographies, production notes, and theatrical trailers. The film has been added to the Criterion Collection. \n\nThe 2013 Criterion Collection release presents the film in three aspect ratios: 1.66:1, 1.85:1, and 1.33:1. The accompanying booklet explains the reasoning behind this choice: \"In 1953, Columbia Pictures was transitioning to the new widescreen format and declared that all its upcoming films, including \"On The Waterfront\", would be suitable for projection in any aspect ratio from the full frame of 1.33:1 to the then widest standard of 1.85:1. The customary frame of European cinematographer Boris Kaufman (\"Twelve Angry Men\", \"Baby Doll\") split the difference at 1.66:1, so that all that was required was for him to leave extra room at the top and bottom of the frame and make sure that nothing essential would be lost in the widescreen presentation. At its premiere in 1954, \"On The Waterfront\" was projected at 1.85:1. Over subsequent decades, millions of television viewers became accustomed to seeing the film with the open-matte 1.33:1 framing, a presentation that has carried over into the home video era. Here, for the first time, Criterion is presenting the film in all three aspect ratios so that viewers can compare and choose the version they prefer.\"\n\n\"Kabzaa\" (1988) and \"Ghulam\" (1998) – Indian movies inspired by \"On the Waterfront\"\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "22393144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22393144", "title": "Paradiso (Dante)", "text": "Paradiso (Dante)\n\nParadiso (; Italian for \"Paradise\" or \"Heaven\") is the third and final part of Dante's \"Divine Comedy\", following the \"Inferno\" and the \"Purgatorio\". It is an allegory telling of Dante's journey through Heaven, guided by Beatrice, who symbolises theology. In the poem, Paradise is depicted as a series of concentric spheres surrounding the Earth, consisting of the Moon, Mercury, Venus, the Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, the Fixed Stars, the Primum Mobile and finally, the Empyrean. It was written in the early 14th century. Allegorically, the poem represents the soul's ascent to God.\n\nThe \"Paradiso\" begins at the top of Mount Purgatory, called the Earthly Paradise (i.e. the Garden of Eden), at noon on Wednesday, March 30 (or April 13), 1300, following Easter Sunday. Dante's journey through Paradise takes approximately twenty-four hours, which indicates that the entire journey of the \"Divine Comedy\" has taken one week, Thursday evening (\"Inferno\" I and II) to Thursday evening.\n\nAfter ascending through the sphere of fire believed to exist in the earth's upper atmosphere (Canto I), Beatrice guides Dante through the nine celestial spheres of Heaven, to the Empyrean, which is the abode of God. The nine spheres are concentric, as in the standard medieval geocentric model of cosmology, which was derived from Ptolemy. The Empyrean is non-material. As with his Purgatory, the structure of Dante's Heaven is therefore of the form 9+1=10, with one of the ten regions different in nature from the other nine.\n\nDuring the course of his journey, Dante meets and converses with several blessed souls. He is careful to say that these all actually live in bliss with God in the Empyrean:\nBut all those souls grace the Empyrean;<br>\nand each of them has gentle life though some<br>\nsense the Eternal Spirit more, some less.\nHowever, for Dante's benefit (and the benefit of his readers), he is \"as a sign\" shown various souls in planetary and stellar spheres that have some appropriate connotation.\n\nWhile the structures of the \"Inferno\" and \"Purgatorio\" were based around different classifications of sin, the structure of the \"Paradiso\" is based on the four cardinal virtues (Prudence, Justice, Temperance, and Fortitude) and the three theological virtues (Faith, Hope, and Charity).\n\nDante's nine spheres of Heaven are the Moon, Mercury, Venus, the Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, the Fixed Stars, and the Primum Mobile. These are associated by Dante with the nine levels of the angelic hierarchy. Dante also relies on traditional associations, such as the one between Venus and romantic love. The first three spheres (which fall within the shadow of the Earth) are associated with deficient forms of Fortitude, Justice, and Temperance. The next four are associated with positive examples of Prudence, Fortitude, Justice, and Temperance; while Faith, Hope, and Love appear together in the eighth sphere.\n\nWhen visiting the Moon, Beatrice explains to Dante the reasons for the markings on its surface, describing a simple scientific experiment in optics. She also praises the experimental method in general (Canto II):\nYet an experiment, were you to try it,<br>\ncould free you from your cavil, and the source<br>\nof your arts' course springs from experiment. \n\nThe waxing and waning of the moon is associated with inconstancy. Consequently, the sphere of the Moon is that of souls who abandoned their vows, and so were deficient in the virtue of fortitude (Canto II). Here Dante and Beatrice meet Piccarda, sister of Dante's friend Forese Donati, who died shortly after being forcibly removed from her convent. They also meet Constance of Sicily, who (Dante believes) was forcibly removed from a convent to marry Henry VI (Canto III). Beatrice discourses on the freedom of the will, the sacredness of vows, and the importance of not collaborating with force (Canto IV):\nfor will, if it resists, is never spent,<br>\nbut acts as nature acts when fire ascends,<br>\nthough force a thousand times tries to compel.<br>\n<br>\nSo that, when will has yielded much or little,<br>\nit has abetted force as these souls did:<br>\nthey could have fled back to their holy shelter. \nBeatrice explains that a vow is a pact \"drawn between a man / and God,\" in which a person freely offers up his free will as a gift to God. Vows should therefore not be taken lightly, and should be kept once given – unless keeping the vow would be a greater evil, as with Jephthah's and Agamemnon's sacrifice of their daughters (Canto V).\n\nBecause of its proximity to the sun, the planet Mercury is often difficult to see. Allegorically, the planet represents those who did good out of a desire for fame, but who, being ambitious, were deficient in the virtue of justice. Their earthly glory pales into insignificance beside the glory of God, just as Mercury pales into insignificance beside the sun. Here Dante meets the Emperor Justinian, who introduces himself with the words \"Caesar I was and am Justinian,\" indicating that his personality remains, but that his earthly status no longer exists in Heaven (Canto V). Justinian recounts the history of the Roman Empire, mentioning, among others, Julius Caesar and Cleopatra; and bemoans the present state of Italy, given the conflict between Guelphs and Ghibellines, and the involvement of the \"yellow lilies\" of France (Canto VI):\nFor some oppose the universal emblem<br>\nwith yellow lilies; others claim that emblem<br>\nfor party: it is hard to see who is worse.<br>\n<br>\nLet Ghibellines pursue their undertakings<br>\nbeneath another sign, for those who sever<br>\nthis sign and justice are bad followers. \nBy association, Beatrice discourses on the Incarnation and the Crucifixion of Christ, which occurred during Roman times (Canto VII).\n\nThe planet Venus (the Morning and Evening Star) is traditionally associated with the Goddess of Love, and so Dante makes this the planet of the lovers, who were deficient in the virtue of temperance (Canto VIII):\nThe world, when still in peril, thought that, wheeling,<br>\nin the third epicycle, Cyprian<br>\nthe fair sent down her rays of frenzied love,<br>\n<br>\n.. and gave the name of her<br>\nwith whom I have begun this canto, to<br>\nthe planet that is courted by the sun,<br>\nat times behind her and at times in front. \n\nDante meets Charles Martel of Anjou, who was known to him, and who points out that a properly functioning society requires people of many different kinds. Such differences are illustrated by Cunizza da Romano (lover of Sordello), who is here in Heaven, while her brother Ezzelino III da Romano is in Hell, among the violent of the seventh circle.\n\nThe troubadour Folquet de Marseilles speaks of the temptations of love, and points out that (as was believed at the time) the cone of the Earth's shadow just touches the sphere of Venus. He condemns the city of Florence (planted, he says, by Satan) for producing that \"damned flower\" (the florin) which is responsible for the corruption of the Church, and he criticises the clergy for their focus on money, rather than on Scripture and the writings of the Church Fathers (Canto IX):\nYour city, which was planted by that one<br>\nwho was the first to turn against his Maker,<br>\nthe one whose envy cost us many tears<br>\n<br>\nproduces and distributes the damned flower<br>\nthat turns both sheep and lambs from the true course,<br>\nfor of the shepherd it has made a wolf.<br>\n<br>\nFor this the Gospel and the great Church Fathers<br>\nare set aside and only the Decretals<br>\nare studied as their margins clearly show.<br>\n<br>\nOn these the pope and cardinals are intent.<br>\nTheir thoughts are never bent on Nazareth,<br>\nwhere Gabriel's open wings were reverent. \nBeyond the shadow of the Earth, Dante deals with positive examples of Prudence, Justice, Temperance, and Fortitude. Within the Sun, which is the Earth's source of illumination, Dante meets the greatest examples of prudence: the souls of the wise, who help to illuminate the world intellectually (Canto X). Initially, a circle of twelve bright lights dance around Dante and Beatrice. These are the souls of:\n\nThis list includes philosophers, theologians and a king, and has representatives from across Europe. Thomas Aquinas recounts the life of St. Francis of Assisi, and his love for \"Lady Poverty\" (Canto XI):\n\nBetween Topino's stream and that which flows<br>\ndown from the hill the blessed Ubaldo chose,<br>\nfrom a high peak there hangs a fertile slope;<br>\n<br>\nfrom there Perugia feels both heat and cold<br>\nat Porta Sole, while behind it sorrow<br>\nNocera and Gualdo under their hard yoke.<br>\n<br>\nFrom this hillside, where it abates its rise,<br>\na sun was born into the world, much like<br>\nthis sun when it is climbing from the Ganges.<br>\n<br>\nTherefore let him who names this site not say<br>\nAscesi, which would be to say too little,<br>\nbut Orient, if he would name it rightly. \nTwelve new bright lights appear, one of which is St. Bonaventure, a Franciscan, who recounts the life of St. Dominic, founder of the order to which Aquinas belonged. The two orders were not always friendly on earth, and having members of one order praising the founder of the other shows the love present in Heaven (Canto XII). The twenty-four bright lights revolve around Dante and Beatrice, singing of the Trinity, and Aquinas explains the surprising presence of King Solomon, who is placed here for kingly, rather than philosophical or mathematical wisdom (Cantos XIII and XIV):\nMy words did not prevent your seeing clearly<br>\nthat it was as a king that he had asked<br>\nfor wisdom that would serve his royal task<br>\n<br>\nand not to know the number of the angels<br>\non high or, if combined with a contingent,<br>\n\"necesse\" ever can produce \"necesse\",<br>\n<br>\nor \"si est dare primum motum esse\",<br>\nor if, within a semicircle, one<br>\ncan draw a triangle with no right angle. \n\nThe planet Mars is traditionally associated with the God of War, and so Dante makes this planet the home of the warriors of the Faith, who gave their lives for God, thereby displaying the virtue of fortitude. The millions of sparks of light that are the souls of these warriors form a Greek cross on the planet Mars, and Dante compares this cross to the Milky Way (Canto XIV):\nAs, graced with lesser and with larger lights<br>\nbetween the poles of the world, the Galaxy<br>\ngleams so that even sages are perplexed;<br>\n<br>\nso, constellated in the depth of Mars,<br>\nthose rays described the venerable sign<br>\na circle's quadrants form where they are joined. \nDante says that sages are \"perplexed\" by the nature of the Milky Way, but in his \"Convivio\", he had described its nature fairly well:\nWhat Aristotle said on this matter cannot be known with certainty. In the Old Translation he says that the Galaxy is nothing but a multitude of fixed stars in that region, so small that we are unable to distinguish them from here below, though from them originates the appearance of that brightness which we call the Galaxy; this may be so, for the heaven in that region is denser, and therefore retains and throws back this light. Avicenna and Ptolemy seem to share this opinion with Aristotle. \nDante meets his ancestor Cacciaguida, who served in the Second Crusade. Cacciaguida praises the twelfth-century Republic of Florence, and bemoans the way in which the city has declined since those days (Cantos XV and XVI). The setting of the \"Divine Comedy\" in the year 1300, before Dante's exile, has allowed characters in the poem to \"foretell\" bad things for Dante. In response to a question from Dante, Cacciaguida speaks the truth bluntly. Dante will be exiled (Canto XVII):\nYou shall leave everything you love most dearly:<br>\nthis is the arrow that the bow of exile<br>\nshoots first. You are to know the bitter taste<br>\n<br>\nof others' bread, how salt it is, and know<br>\nhow hard a path it is for one who goes<br>\ndescending and ascending others' stairs. \nHowever, Cacciaguida also charges Dante to write and tell the world all that he has seen of Hell, Purgatory, and Heaven. Finally, Dante sees some other warriors of the Faith, such as Joshua, Judas Maccabeus, Charlemagne, Roland, and Godfrey of Bouillon (Canto XVIII).\n\nThe planet Jupiter is traditionally associated with the king of the gods, so Dante makes this planet the home of the rulers who displayed justice. The souls here spell out the Latin for \"Love justice, ye that judge the earth\", after which the final \"M\" of that sentence is transformed into the shape of a giant imperial eagle (Canto XVIII):\nDILIGITE IUSTITIAM were the verb<br>\nand noun that first appeared in that depiction;<br>\nQUI IUDICATIS TERRAM followed after.<br>\n<br>\nThen, having formed the M of the fifth word,<br>\nthose spirits kept their order; Jupiter's<br>\nsilver, at that point, seemed embossed with gold. \nPresent in this sphere are David, Hezekiah, Trajan (converted to Christianity according to a medieval legend), Constantine, William II of Sicily, and (to Dante's amazement) Ripheus the Trojan, a pagan saved by the mercy of God. The souls forming the imperial eagle speak with one voice, and tell of God's justice (Cantos XIX and XX).\n\nThe sphere of Saturn is that of the contemplatives, who embody temperance. Dante here meets Peter Damian, and discusses with him monasticism, the doctrine of predestination, and the sad state of the Church (Cantos XXI and XXII). Beatrice, who represents theology, becomes increasingly lovely here, indicating the contemplative's closer insight into the truth of God:\n\nShe did not smile. Instead her speech to me<br>\nbegan: Were I to smile, then you would be<br>\nlike Semele when she was turned to ashes,<br>\n<br>\nbecause, as you have seen, my loveliness<br>\nwhich, even as we climb the steps of this<br>\neternal palace, blazes with more brightness<br>\n<br>\nwere it not tempered here, would be so brilliant<br>\nthat, as it flashed, your mortal faculty<br>\nwould seem a branch a lightning bolt has cracked. \n\nThe sphere of the Fixed Stars is the sphere of the church triumphant. From here (in fact, from the constellation Gemini, under which he was born), Dante looks back on the seven spheres he has visited, and on the Earth (Canto XXII):\nMy eyes returned through all the seven spheres<br>\nand saw this globe in such a way that I<br>\nsmiled at its scrawny image: I approve<br>\n<br>\nthat judgment as the best, which holds this earth<br>\nto be the least; and he whose thoughts are set<br>\nelsewhere, can truly be called virtuous. \nHere, Dante sees the Virgin Mary and other saints (Canto XXIII). St. Peter tests Dante on faith, asking what it is, and whether Dante has it. In response to Dante's reply, St. Peter asks Dante how he knows that the Bible is true, and (in an argument attributed to Augustine) Dante cites the miracle of the Church's growth from such humble beginnings (Canto XXIV):\nSay, who assures you that those works were real?<br>\ncame the reply. The very thing that needs<br>\nproof no thing else attests these works to you.<br>\n<br>\n\nI said: If without miracles the world<br>\nwas turned to Christianity, that is<br>\nso great a miracle that, all the rest<br>\n<br>\nare not its hundredth part: for you were poor<br>\nand hungry when you found the field and sowed<br>\nthe good plant once a vine and now a thorn. \n\nSt. James questions Dante on hope, and Beatrice vouches for his possession of it (Canto XXV):\nThere is no child of the Church Militant<br>\nwho has more hope than he has, as is written<br>\nwithin the Sun whose rays reach all our ranks:<br>\n<br>\nthus it is granted him to come from Egypt<br>\ninto Jerusalem that he have vision<br>\nof it, before his term of warring ends. \nFinally, St. John questions Dante on love. In his reply, Dante refers back to the concept of \"twisted love\" discussed in the \"Purgatorio\" (Canto XXVI):\nThus I began again: My charity<br>\nresults from all those things whose bite can bring<br>\nthe heart to turn to God; the world's existence<br>\n<br>\nand mine, the death that He sustained that I<br>\nmight live, and that which is the hope of all<br>\nbelievers, as it is my hope, together<br>\n<br>\nwith living knowledge I have spoken of<br>\nthese drew me from the sea of twisted love<br>\nand set me on the shore of the right love.<br>\n<br>\nThe leaves enleaving all the garden of<br>\nthe Everlasting Gardener, I love<br>\naccording to the good He gave to them. \nSt. Peter then denounces Pope Boniface VIII in very strong terms, and says that, in his eyes, the Papal See stands empty (Canto XXVII).\n\nThe Primum Mobile (\"first moved\" sphere) is the last sphere of the physical universe. It is moved directly by God, and its motion causes all the spheres it encloses to move (Canto XXVII):\nThis heaven has no other where than this:<br>\nthe mind of God, in which are kindled both<br>\nthe love that turns it and the force it rains.<br>\n<br>\nAs in a circle, light and love enclose it,<br>\nas it surrounds the rest and that enclosing,<br>\nonly He who encloses understands.<br>\n<br>\nNo other heaven measures this sphere's motion,<br>\nbut it serves as the measure for the rest,<br>\neven as half and fifth determine ten; \nThe Primum Mobile is the abode of angels, and here Dante sees God as an intensely bright point of light surrounded by nine rings of angels (Canto XXVIII). Beatrice explains the creation of the universe, and the role of the angels, ending with a forceful criticism of the preachers of the day (Canto XXIX):\n\nChrist did not say to his first company:<br>\n'Go, and preach idle stories to the world';<br>\nbut he gave them the teaching that is truth,<br>\n<br>\nand truth alone was sounded when they spoke;<br>\nand thus, to battle to enkindle faith,<br>\nthe Gospels served them as both shield and lance.<br>\n<br>\nBut now men go to preach with jests and jeers,<br>\nand just as long as they can raise a laugh,<br>\nthe cowl puffs up, and nothing more is asked.<br>\n<br>\nBut such a bird nests in that cowl, that if<br>\nthe people saw it, they would recognize<br>\nas lies the pardons in which they confide. \nFrom the Primum Mobile, Dante ascends to a region beyond physical existence, the Empyrean, which is the abode of God. Beatrice, representing theology, is here transformed to be more beautiful than ever before, and Dante becomes enveloped in light, rendering him fit to see God (Canto XXX):\nLike sudden lightning scattering the spirits<br>\nof sight so that the eye is then too weak<br>\nto act on other things it would perceive,<br>\n<br>\nsuch was the living light encircling me,<br>\nleaving me so enveloped by its veil<br>\nof radiance that I could see no thing.<br>\n<br>\nThe Love that calms this heaven always welcomes<br>\ninto Itself with such a salutation,<br>\nto make the candle ready for its flame. \nDante sees an enormous rose, symbolising divine love, the petals of which are the enthroned souls of the faithful (both those of the Old Testament and those of the New). All the souls he has met in Heaven, including Beatrice, have their home in this rose. Angels fly around the rose like bees, distributing peace and love. Beatrice now returns to her place in the rose, signifying that Dante has passed beyond theology in directly contemplating God, and St. Bernard, as a mystical contemplative, now guides Dante further (Canto XXXI).\nSt. Bernard further explains predestination, and prays to the Virgin Mary on Dante's behalf. Finally, Dante comes face-to-face with God Himself (Cantos XXXII and XXXIII). God appears as three equally large circles occupying the same space, representing the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit:\nbut through my sight, which as I gazed grew stronger,<br>\nthat sole appearance, even as I altered,<br>\nseemed to be changing. In the deep and bright<br>\n<br>\nessence of that exalted Light, three circles<br>\nappeared to me; they had three different colors,<br>\nbut all of them were of the same dimension;<br>\n<br>\none circle seemed reflected by the second,<br>\nas rainbow is by rainbow, and the third<br>\nseemed fire breathed equally by those two circles. \nWithin these circles Dante can discern the human form of Christ. The \"Divine Comedy\" ends with Dante trying to understand how the circles fit together, and how the humanity of Christ relates to the divinity of the Son but, as Dante puts it, \"that was not a flight for my wings\". In a flash of understanding, which he cannot express, Dante does finally see this, and his soul becomes aligned with God's love:\nBut already my desire and my will<br>\nwere being turned like a wheel, all at one speed,<br>\nby the Love which moves the sun and the other stars.\n\n"}
{"id": "209236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209236", "title": "Pest (organism)", "text": "Pest (organism)\n\nA pest is a plant or animal detrimental to humans or human concerns including crops, livestock, and forestry. The term is also used of organisms that cause a nuisance, such as in the home. An older usage is of a deadly epidemic disease, specifically plague. In its broadest sense, a pest is a competitor of humanity.\nA pest is any living organism, whether animal, plant or fungus, which is invasive or troublesome to plants or animals, human or human concerns, livestock, or human structures. It is a loose concept, as an organism can be a pest in one setting but beneficial, domesticated or acceptable in another.\n\nAnimals are called pests when they cause damage to agriculture by feeding on crops or parasitising livestock, such as codling moth on apples, or boll weevil on cotton. An animal could also be a pest when it causes damage to a wild ecosystem or carries germs within human habitats. Examples of these include those organisms which vector human disease, such as rats and fleas which carry the plague disease, mosquitoes which vector malaria, and ticks which carry Lyme disease.\n\nA species can be a pest in one setting but beneficial or domesticated in another (for example, European rabbits introduced to Australia caused ecological damage beyond the scale they inflicted in their natural habitat). Many weeds are also seen as useful under certain conditions, for instance Patterson's curse is often valued as food for honeybees and as a wildflower, even though it can poison livestock.\n\nThe term \"plant pest\" has a specific definition in terms of the International Plant Protection Convention and phytosanitary measures worldwide. A pest is any species, strain or biotype of plant, animal, or pathogenic agent injurious to plants or plant products. Plants may be considered pests themselves if an invasive species.\n\nThe animal groups of greatest importance as pests (in order of economic importance) are insects, mites, nematodes and gastropods. \nPlant pests can be classed as monophagous, oligophagous, and polyphagous according to how many hosts they have. Alternatively, they can be divided by feeding type, whether biting and chewing; piercing and sucking; or Lapping and chewing. Another approach is to class them by population presence as * key pests, occasional pests, and potential pests. In terms of population biology, there are population growth rate (r) pests; carrying capacity (k) pests; and r-k pests.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese include slugs and land snail pests:\n\nSome slugs are pests in agriculture and gardens. \"Deroceras reticulatum\" is a worldwide slug pest. Local importance slug pests include: \"Deroceras\" spp., \"Milax\" spp., \"Tandonia\" sp., \"Limax\" spp., \"Arion\" spp. and some species of Veronicellidae: \"Veronicella sloanei\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23398303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23398303", "title": "Pseudogamy", "text": "Pseudogamy\n\nPseudogamy refers to aspects of reproduction. It has different (but related) meanings in zoology and in botany.\n\nIn zoology it means a type of parthenogenesis in which the sperm stimulates the egg cell to develop into an embryo, but no genes from the male are inherited. Gynogenesis is a synonym.\n\nIn botany, \"pseudogamy\" is also related to asexual reproduction. Wilhelm Olbers Focke (1881) is usually cited for the definition of the term. What he actually said was (page 525, translated)\n\nThus in botany, \"pseudogamy\" means any reproductive process that requires pollination but does not involve male inheritance. It is sometimes used in a restrictive sense to refer to types of agamospermy in which the endosperm is fertilized but the embryo is not (see Pseudogamous apomixis, below). A better term for the restrictive sense is centrogamy.\n\nApomixis in flowering plants (angiosperms) includes some types of vegetative reproduction and also agamospermy, which is asexual reproduction through seeds (see apomixis for more information). Agamospermy can occur through many different mechanisms, some of which require pollination (pseudogamy), and some of which do not (autonomous apomixis). Many flowering plants with pseudogamous apomixis require fertilization to produce the endosperm of the seed. However, it has been shown that pollination with compatible pollen can be required even in some species where endosperm development is autonomous.\n\nPseudogamous apomixis occurs in many families. It is particularly common in Rosaceae and Poaceae, where it occurs in many different genera and species. Examples of species with pseudogamous apomixis include the Himalayan blackberry \"Rubus armeniacus\" and gamagrass \"Tripsacum dactyloides\". By contrast, autonomous apomixis is the rule among the many apomictic species of Asteraceae including the common dandelion \"Taraxacum officinale\", and also occurs in several genera of Poaceae.\n"}
{"id": "52184963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52184963", "title": "Putridarium", "text": "Putridarium\n\nThe putridarium is a temporary burial place, generally in an underground crypt, in which bodies, commonly of monks or nuns, can be stored in wall niches, often seated on masonry chairs with a central hole and vessel to collect the liquids of decomposition. Once the bodies have reached a proper stage of decomposition, the bones are collected, cleaned, and stored in an ossuary.\n\n"}
{"id": "26132634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26132634", "title": "Scapegoat", "text": "Scapegoat\n\nIn the Bible, a scapegoat is an animal which is ritually burdened with the sins of others, then driven away. The concept first appears in Leviticus, in which a goat is designated to be cast into the desert to carry away the sins of the community. \n\nPractices with some similarities to the scapegoat ritual also appears in ancient Greece and Ebla.\n\nThe word 'scapegoat' is an English translation of the Hebrew \"‘ăzāzêl\" (Hebrew: עזאזל) which occurs in Leviticus 16:8. The lexicographer Gesenius and Brown–Driver–Briggs Hebrew Lexicon give \"la-azazel\" (Hebrew: לעזאזל) as a reduplicative intensive of the stem \"‘-Z-L\" \"remove\", hence \"la-‘ăzāzêl,\" \"for entire removal\". This reading is supported by the Greek Old Testament translation as \"the sender away (of sins)\".\n\nAlternatively, broadly contemporary with the Septuagint, the pseudepigraphical Book of Enoch may preserve Azazel as the name of a fallen angel.\nEarly English Christian Bible versions follow the translation of the Septuagint and Latin Vulgate which interpret \"azazel\" as \"the goat that departs\" (Greek \"tragos apopompaios\", \"goat sent out\", Latin \"caper emissarius\", \"emissary goat\"). William Tyndale rendered the Latin as \"(e)scape goat\" in his 1530 Bible. This translation was followed by following versions up to the King James Version of the Bible in 1611: \"And Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats; one lot for the Lord, and the other lot for the scapegoat.\" Several modern versions however either follow the reading as a demon, Azazel, or footnote \"for Azazel.\" as an alternative reading.\n\nJewish sources in the Talmud (Yoma 6:4,67b) give the etymology of \"azazel\" as a compound of \"az\", strong or rough, and \"el\", mighty, that the goat was sent from the most rugged or strongest of mountains. From the Targums onwards the term \"azazel\" was also seen by some rabbinical commentators as the name of a Hebrew demon, angelic force, or pagan deity. The two readings are still disputed today.\n\nThe scapegoat was a goat that was designated (Hebrew לַעֲזָאזֵֽל ) \"la-aza'zeyl\"; \"for absolute removal\" (for symbolic removal of the people's sins with the literal removal of the goat), and outcast in the desert as part of the ceremonies of the Day of Atonement, that began during the Exodus with the original Tabernacle and continued through the times of the temples in Jerusalem.\n\nOnce a year, on Yom Kippur, the Cohen Gadol sacrificed a bull as a sin offering to atone for sins he may have committed unintentionally throughout the year. Subsequently he took two goats and presented them at the door of the tabernacle. Two goats were chosen by lot: one to be \"for YHWH\", which was offered as a blood sacrifice, and the other to be the scapegoat to be sent away into the wilderness. The blood of the slain goat was taken into the Holy of Holies behind the sacred veil and sprinkled on the mercy seat, the lid of the ark of the covenant. Later in the ceremonies of the day, the High Priest confessed the intentional sins of the Israelites to God placing them figuratively on the head of the other goat, the Azazel scapegoat, who would symbolically \"take them away\".\n\nIn Christianity this process prefigures the sacrifice of Christ on the cross through which God has been propitiated and sins can be expiated. Jesus Christ is seen to have fulfilled all of the biblical \"types\"—the High Priest who officiates at the ceremony, the Lord's goat that deals with the pollution of sin and the scapegoat that removes the \"burden of sin\". Christians believe that sinners who own their guilt and confess their sins, exercising faith and trust in the person and sacrifice of Jesus, are forgiven of their sins. \n\nSince the second goat was sent away to perish, the word \"scapegoat\" has developed to indicate a person who is blamed and punished for the sins of others.\n\nA concept superficially similar to the biblical scapegoat is attested in two ritual texts in archives at Ebla of the 24th century BC. They were connected with ritual purification on the occasion of the king's wedding. In them, a she-goat with a silver bracelet hung from her neck was driven forth into the wasteland of \"Alini\"; \"we\" in the report of the ritual involves the whole community. Such \"elimination rites\", in which an animal, without confession of sins, is the vehicle of evils (not sins) that are chased from the community are widely attested in the Ancient Near East.\n\nAncient Greeks practiced scapegoating rituals in exceptional times based on the belief that the repudiation of one or two individuals would save the whole community. Scapegoating was practiced with different rituals across ancient Greece for different reasons but was mainly used during extraordinary circumstances such as famine, drought or plague. The scapegoat would usually be an individual of lower society such as a criminal, slave or poor person and was referred to as the \"pharmakos\", \"katharma\" or \"peripsima\".\n\nThere is a dichotomy, however, in the individuals used as scapegoats in mythical tales and the ones used in the actual rituals. In mythical tales it was stressed that someone of high importance had to be sacrificed if the whole society would benefit from the aversion of catastrophe (usually a king or the king's children). However, since no king or person of importance would be willing to sacrifice himself or his children, the scapegoat in actual rituals would be someone of lower society who would be given value through special treatment such as fine clothes and dining before the sacrificial ceremony.\n\nSacrificial ceremonies varied across Greece depending on the festival and type of catastrophe. In Abdera, for example, a poor man was feasted and led around the walls of the city once before being chased out with stones. In Massilia a poor man was feasted for a year and then cast out of the city in order to stop a plague. The scholia refer to the \"pharmakos\" being killed, but many scholars reject this, and argue that the earliest evidence (the fragments of the iambic satirist Hipponax) only show the \"pharmakos\" being stoned, beaten and driven from the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "12643716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12643716", "title": "Service innovation", "text": "Service innovation\n\nService innovation is used to refer to many things. These include but not limited to:\n\n\nThe Finnish research agency TEKES defines service innovation as \"a new or significantly improved service concept that is taken into practice. It can be for example a new customer interaction channel, a distribution system or a technological concept or a combination of them. A service innovation always includes replicable elements that can be identified and systematically reproduced in other cases or environments. The replicable element can be the service outcome or the service process as such or a part of them. A service innovation benefits both the service producer and customers and it improves its developer’s competitive edge. A service innovation is a service product or service process that is based on some technology or systematic method. In services however, the innovation does not necessarily relate to the novelty of the technology itself but the innovation often lies in the non-technological areas. Service innovations can for instance be new solutions in the customer interface, new distribution methods, novel application of technology in the service process, new forms of operation with the supply chain or new ways to organize and manage services.\"\n\nAnother definition proposed by Van Ark et al. (2003) states it as a \"new or considerably changed service concept, client interaction channel, service delivery system or technological concept that individually, but most likely in combination, leads to one or more (re)new(ed) service functions that are new to the firm and do change the service/good offered on the market and do require structurally new technological, human or organizational capabilities of the service organization.\" This definition covers the notions of technological and non-technological innovation. Non-technological innovations in services mainly arise from investment in intangible inputs.\n\nMany literatures on what makes for successful innovations of this kind comes from the New Service Development research field (e.g. Johne and Storey, 1998; Nijssen et al., 2006). Service design practitioners have also extensively discussed the features of effective service products and experiences. One of the key aspects of many service activities is the high involvement of the client/customer/user in the production of the final service. Without this co-production (i.e. interactivity of service production), the service would often not be created. This co-production, together with the intangibility of many service products, causes service innovation to often take forms rather different from those familiar through studies of innovation in manufacturing. Innovation researchers have, for this reason, stressed that much service innovation is hard to capture in traditional categories like product or process innovation. The co-production process, and the interactions between service provider and client, can also form the focus of innovation. A growing number of professional association have service sections that promote service innovation research, including INFORMS, ISSIP, and others.\n\nThus den Hertog (2000) who identifies four “dimensions” of service innovation, takes quite a different direction to much standard innovation theorizing.\n\nIn practice, the majority of service innovations will almost certainly involve various combinations of these four dimensions. For instance:\n\nAn elaboration of this model to suggest six dimensions of innovation was developed in the course of work on creative sectors, by Green, Miles and Rutter. As well as Technology and Production process, four dimensions were specified whose linkages are very strong in creative sectors like videogames, advertising and design: Cultural Product, Cultural Concept, Delivery and User Interface.\n\nThe service innovation literature is surprisingly poorly related to the literature on new product development, which has spawned a line of study on new service development. This often focuses on the managerially important issue of what makes for successful service innovation. See for example Johne and Storey (1998), who reviewed numerous New Service Development studies.\n\nIan Miles of the Manchester Institute of Innovation Research (MIoIR), The University of Manchester, is one of the scholars on the study of 'Service Innovation'. He coined the term in his 1993 article in the journal \"FUTURES\", (Vol. 25, No. 6, pp. 653–672,) . He listed a series of characteristic features of services, and associated these with particular types of innovation. Such innovations are often aimed at overcoming problems associated with service characteristics like the difficulty in demonstrating the service to the client, or the problems in storing and building up stocks of the service.\n\nAfter Miles (1993), numerous studies were made, one of the more recent studies that reaches similar conclusions was from a qualitative survey of service organizations by Candi (2007).) Note that the “product” related innovations below have a lot in common with new service development as discussed above. In the following list, features of services are linked to innovation strategies by the symbol »>.\n\nAdditionally, a number of more general tendencies in the innovation process in services have been noted. These include:\n\n\nThere have been many methods for service innovation design and one of these is Dominant Innovation methodology which is a systematic approach to discover the gaps of service value delivery through a scenario-based mapping. Dominant Innovation methodology is based on a visible/ and invisible matrix to map the growth gaps of product value and further develop an innovation ecosystem between evidence and supply sources. Design and service innovation have also been combined in the context of business acceleration using the Minimum Valuable Service model. The MVS is an open source methodology that integrates lean startup and Service Design and it has been largely adopted by startups and large organizations like Ge and Cisco in Silicon Valley.\n\nIn the traditional product-service system (PSS) business model, industries develop product with value-added service instead of single product itself, and provide their customers services that are needed. In this relationship, the market goal of manufacturers is not one-time product selling, but continuous profit from customers by total service solution, which can satisfy unmet customers’ needs. Most of PSS systems focus on ‘human-generated or human-related data’ instead of ‘machine-generated data or industrial data’, which may include machine controllers, sensors, manufacturing systems, etc. Early work using web-based product monitoring for remote product services including GM OnStar Telematics, Otis Remote Elevator Maintenance (REM), and GE Medical InSite during 1990s. Service innovation using web-based system was further developed for e-service applications. Recently, more advanced approaches using predictive analytics and cyber physical systems (CPS) can harvest large amounts of data of a variety of types to uncover hidden patterns, unknown correlations and other useful information from industrial and manufacturing systems and integrate with business automation software for improved productivity and innovation.\n\nIn recent years policy makers have begun to consider the potential for promoting services innovation as part of their economic development strategies. Such consideration has, in part, been driven by the growing contribution that services activities make to national and regional economies. It also reflects the emerging recognition that traditional policy measures such as R&D grants and technology transfer supports have been developed from a manufacturing perspective of the innovation process.\n\nThe European Commission and the OECD has been particularly active in seeking to generate reflection on services innovation and its policy implications. This has resulted in studies such as the OECD’s reports into knowledge intensive services, and the European Commission Expert Group report on services innovation – the report of the group, \"Fostering Innovation in Services\" as well as various TrendChart studies. The European Commission has also launched a number of Knowledge Intensive Services Platforms designed to act as laboratories for new public policies for services innovation. Few economic development agencies at the member state level, and fewer still at the regional level, have translated this new thinking on services innovation into policy action. Finland is an exception, where knowledge intensive business services have been a focus of much regional work (esp. the Uusimaa region).\n\nFinland has been active in thinking about the policy implications of services innovation. This has seen TEKES – the Finnish Funding Agency for Technology and Innovation – launch the \"SERVE\" initiative, designed to support ‘Finnish companies and research organisations in the development of innovative service concepts that can be reproduced or replicated and where some technology or systematic method is applied .’ Germany has also undertaken initiatives for services R&D, and Canada and Norway have programs as well.\n\nIreland has been considering a services-focused innovation policy, with \"Forfás\" – its national policy and advisory board for enterprise, trade, science, technology and innovation – having undertaken a review of Ireland’s existing policy and support measures for innovation, and outlined options for a new policy and framework environment in support of service innovation activity.\n\nAt the regional level, limited information is available on how Europe’s regions are responding to the challenges presented by service innovation. [CM International] has recently published a European survey on services innovation and regional policy responses. The results of this suggest that very few regions in France, the UK and Ireland have an explicit focus on services and innovation. Many do, however, express a desire to address this issue in the coming future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6315018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6315018", "title": "Shade (mythology)", "text": "Shade (mythology)\n\nIn literature and poetry, a shade (translating Greek σκιά, Latin \"umbra\") is the spirit or ghost of a dead person, residing in the underworld.\n\nAn underworld where the dead live in shadow is common to beliefs in the ancient Near East, in Biblical Hebrew expressed by the term \"tsalmaveth\" (צַלמָוֶת: lit. \"death-shadow\", \"shadow of death\"; alternate term for Sheol). The Witch of Endor in the First Book of Samuel notably conjures the ghost (\"owb\") of Samuel.\n\nOnly select individuals are exempt from the fate of dwelling in shadow after death, and instead ascend to the divine sphere. This is the apotheosis aspired to by kings claiming divinity, and reflected in the veneration of heroes. Plutarch relates how Alexander the Great was inconsolable after the death of Hephaistion up to the moment he received an oracle of Ammon confirming that the deceased was a hero, i.e. enjoyed the status of a divinity.\n\nShades appear in Book Eleven of Homer's \"Odyssey\", when Odysseus descends into Hades, and in Virgil's \"Aeneid\", when Aeneas travels to the underworld. In the \"Divine Comedy\" by Dante Alighieri, many of the dead are similarly referred to as shades (Italian \"ombra\"), including Dante's guide, Virgil. \n\nThe phrase \"peace to thy gentle shade [and endless rest]\" is sometimes seen in epitaphs, and was used by Alexander Pope in his epitaph for Nicholas Rowe.\n\n"}
{"id": "1261112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1261112", "title": "Somaclonal variation", "text": "Somaclonal variation\n\nSomaclonal variation is the variation seen in plants that have been produced by plant tissue culture. Chromosomal rearrangements are an important source of this variation. The term somaclonal variation is a phenomenon of broad taxonomic occurrence, reported for species of different ploidy levels, and for outcrossing and inbreeding, vegetatively and seed propagated, and cultivated and non-cultivated plants. Characters affected include both qualitative and quantitative traits.\n\nSomaclonal variation is not restricted to, but is particularly common in, plants regenerated from callus. The variations can be genotypic or phenotypic, which in the latter case can be either genetic or epigenetic in origin. Typical genetic alterations are: changes in chromosome numbers (polyploidy and aneuploidy), chromosome structure (translocations, deletions, insertions and duplications) and DNA sequence (base mutations). A typical epigenetics-related event would be gene methylation.\nIf no visual, morphogenic changes are apparent, other plant screening procedures must be applied. There are both benefits and disadvantages to somaclonal variation. The phenomenon of high variability in individuals from plant cell cultures or adventitious shoots has been named somaclonal variation.\n\nThe major likely benefit of somaclonal variation is plant/crop improvement. Somaclonal variation leads to the creation of additional genetic variability. Characteristics for which somaclonal mutants can be enriched during \"in vitro\" culture includes resistance to disease pathotoxins, herbicides, high salt concentration, mineral toxicity and tolerance to environmental or chemical stress, as well as for increased production of secondary metabolites.\n\nsuitable for breeding of new species\n\nA serious disadvantage of somaclonal variation occurs in operations which require clonal uniformity, as in the horticulture and forestry industries where tissue culture is employed for rapid propagation of elite genotypes.\n\nDifferent steps can be used to reduce somaclonal variation. It is well known that increasing numbers of subculture increases the likelihood of somaclonal variation, so the number of subcultures in micropropagation protocols should be kept to a minimum. Regular reinitiation of clones from new explants might reduce variability over time. Another way of reducing somaclonal variation is to avoid 2,4-D in the culture medium, as this hormone is known to introduce variation. Vitrification, commonly referred to as hyperhydricity in the tissue culture world, may be a problem in some species. Hyperhydricity is a physiological malformation that results in excessive hydration, low lignification, impaired stomatal function and reduced mechanical strength of tissue culture-generated plants. In case of forest trees, mature elite trees can be identified and rapidly cloned by this technique.\n\nHigh production cost has limited the application of this technique to more valuable ornamental crops and some fruit trees.\n"}
{"id": "41078372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41078372", "title": "Soul Cartel", "text": "Soul Cartel\n\nSoul Cartel () is a Korean manhwa series written by Kim Eun-hyo and illustrated by Kim Yeong-ji. Started on 2012, this webtoon manhwa was released on Naver Webtoon and its final raw chapter was published on April 6, 2016.\n\nSoul Cartel follows Si-hun Cha, a young Korean boy who is able to see the spirits of the dead. He is taken care of by his older sister, Su-In Cha, and comes from a family of powerful mediums and exorcists. Si-hun Cha himself is lacking in any spiritual abilities whatsoever aside from his ability to see spirits. Despite this, he tries to help his sister catch weaker wayward ghosts. When chasing after one of these ghosts, he runs into a very powerful demon. The demon claims to be the Mephistopheles, or shortly, Mephisto, who wants Si-hun Cha to teach him of the modern human world and bring him books about his exploits. He states that if Si-hun Cha tries to run away, he's done for. Si-hun Cha does have the common sense to consult his sister (without revealing that he's actually caught a powerful demon's attention), but he quickly learns that even his sister would be no match for Mephisto. After Mephisto finishes a copy of Faust he reveals that he came to earth because Faust has been reincarnated. Faust was a human who'd claimed that he would not be corrupted by Mephisto's temptations, so they'd entered a contractual wager, with God acting as the judge. However, according to Mephisto, God had unfairly intervened at the last moment and cost Mephisto his victory. \n\nNote: There are different romanizations of the characters' name from different completed scanlation groups and the official translation by LINE Webtoon (Naver Webtoon). The names translated by the scanlating groups would be on the left while the names translated by LINE Webtoon would be on the right\n\nCha Shi-Hoon (차시훈)\n\nSi-hun Cha is the main protagonist of the series. Although he is the main hero, his role in the series so far has been severely limited. This is because of his lack of strength and skills. But rest assured, he is still young and in training. He has shown exceptional advancement by gaining a special move known as the 3rd hand, a super punch which is strong enough to take on an A-class demon.\n\nMephistopheles (메피스토 펠레스)\n\nMephistopheles (more commonly known as Mephisto) is one of the main characters of the manhwa and is the first Archdevil shown. He is also known as the Arch-devil of combat. His alter ego is Asura of Resentment.\n\nFaust (파우스트)\n\nFaust is a Human who due to being reborn has decided to re-engage in his battle with the Archdevil Mephisto as a means of ensuring humans are safe. Due to 'said interference from god, Mephisto has claimed he never really lost. In this battle Faust will utilizing God's Papyrus a tool with divine powers from god that can do anything but be used for evil unpure reasons. Faust has used on numerous occasions to subdue Mephisto to a degree.\n\nCha Su-In / Cha Soo-In (차수인)\n\nCha Su-In is one of the main characters of the series and is the elder sister of the protagonist Cha Shi-Hoon. She took up being a spirit medium after her parents vanished during a mysterious fight with a powerful being from the underworld. After a failed attempt to rescue them from the Underworld a few years ago, she was quietly doing her job guiding spirits to the next world when she came to know that her brother had gotten into a contract with the Archdevil Mephisto and would have to go the underworld. Upon hearing this, she decided to come along to protect her brother.\n\nPure angels are servants of God from birth and they maintain the peace and harmony in the underworld. They are different from Azraels, who are human souls that have gone through training to become angels\n\nMichael\n\nMichael is one of the four Archangels, followers of the word of God and leader of the Angels. He often shows up in order to restrain Mephisto, although he has given aide to the party many times. Faust is branded with his crest, enabling them to communicate and for Michael to know of his whereabouts. Michael is known for having the strongest defense in the underworld, supposedly unpierced since Genesis. This has earned him the title 'The Impregnable Archangel'.\n\nCherub / Karob\n\nKarob is a Head Angel who serves under Michael. He is also a part of the Special Investigations Squad, and is currently assisting the party in their search for Shi-hoon Cha and Soo-In Cha's parents.\n\nBanu / Banwoo\n\nBanwoo was an Azrael who was sent to guide the souls down the Azrael path, but was killed by Meins on his way.\n\nYago / Yago\n\nYago was an Azrael who was sent to guide the souls down the reincarnation path, but was killed by Meins on his way. He was good friends with Faust before Faust was reincarnated and they both spent time in the library reading together.\n\nPhiler / Filer\n\nFiler is the prosecuter in the trial for creating an illegal contract between Mephisto and Faust without God's approval. He was once humiliated by Faust as a student during a debate over the worth of human life in the front of many other students and he seeks to shame Faust during the trial. However Faust was able to win against him and Filer seems to have accepted defeat.\n\nLuteno / Rutano\n\nRutano is a Chief Angel who was one of the weakest as an Azrael cadet and could not graduate for 100 years, but with motivation from Michael he used his own effort to climb up to the Chief Angel position.\n\nMeins are souls who defy God and create fake bodies for their souls to reside in. However as their bodies are fake they have to consume other souls regularly to maintain the condition of their bodies. Thus they wish for a human body for their soul to live in permanently, which is why they are desperately after Shi-Hoon and Soo-In as their young bodies can fetch a high price.\n\nMinotaurus\n\nA mein resembling a Minotaur who was initially chained up for his crimes. He was released by Mephisto on the condition that he cared for Mephisto's pet, Cerberus.\n\nKarl / Carl\n\nA Mein whose ability is to jump at his opponent with great force from the ground. He was the Mein who was assigned to capture Soo-In, who lost her sense of hearing in the forest trap. But ultimately Soo-In was able to uncover his weakness and defeated him, and he was arrested along with Ethan and Carl.\n\nIson / Ethan\n\nEthan had holes in his hand from which a poisonous lemon-scented gas that can kill a person within 3 seconds emits. He was supposed to kill Faust who lost his sense of smell in the forest, but due to Faust's brilliant thinking and acting Ethan was captured instead. He, Carl and Joon were ultimately arrested by the angels.\n\nJoon\n\nJoon was the trap maker of the forest trap which is a level 3 maze that he spent 100 years learning how to create. However Faust caught him and trapped him inside an Infinite Maze which he (Faust) learnt and created in the blink of an eye until Joon was arrested by the angels along with Ethan and Carl\n\nNigel\n\nNigel was Mephisto's enemy from a 100 years ago when he lost the battle with Mephisto and wished to obtain revenge. While searching for Mephisto in the forest trap he came across Shi-Hoon and Karob and almost killed them until Mephisto interrupted. Ultimately, in their re-battle, Nigel was killed by Mephisto who used his the source of his fire to summon Hell's Blade and burnt him to death.\n\nGilgath / Gilgas\n\nA Mein initially hired by the Nesk Trading Company in order to face off with Mephisto. He was nearing the end of his \"Hell's Pilgrimage\", a tedious journey in which a demon must fight and survive all 4 Archangels and Arch-devils. He only needed to fight Mephisto to complete his Hell's Pilgrimage and become a \"Pluto\".\n\nGairon / Giron\n\nThe head of the Nesk Trading Company. Gairon is an extremely powerful Mein, and the first known \"Pluto\". He is extremely business-oriented, and will not stop at anything to further his company's strength.\n\nMilon / Miren\n\nA trusted worker of the Nesk Trading Company. He is a Mein who works under Gairon, reporting directly to him on several occasions.\n\nBeelzebub (바알세불)\n\nBeelzebub is the second Arch-devil to appear in Soul Cartel who consider Mephisto as a rival and is his younger twin brother by a second. He aims to overturn the Arch-devil hierarchy. He is also known as the Arch-devil of slaughter.\n\nMastema \n\nMastema is the third Arch-devil to appear in Soul Cartel and is Mephisto and Beelzebub's younger brother and Astaroth's elder brother. He is very fond of games and aims to play a game with Faust and corrupt him, something which Mephisto failed to do. In doing so, he wishes to prove that he is better than God.\n\nAstaroth / (yet to debut in LINE Webtoon)\n\nAstaroth is the fourth and final Arch-devil to be introduced in Soul Cartel, and is the youngest family member out of the 4 Arch-devils. She calls herself the Mother of Devils, and is willing to do anything to ensure the devil race stand on top of the underworld hierarchic.\n\nIrene / Airen\n\nIrene is a young member of the Witches Clan, and the current librarian. She initially runs into the party seeking Mephisto, in order to request his help in healing the Supreme Witch. She eventually grows attached to the party, and has promised to travel with them in the future.\n\nSupreme / Chief Witch Haelia\n\nThe Supreme Witch was the lead of the Witches Clan, and a very powerful being. She was the traitor of the witches and conspired with Meins to attack and capture Shi-Hoon, Mephisto, Faust and Soo-In. Although she supposedly wishes the best for her clan, her ideals were ultimately misguided by her deceased daughter Risella, and she was defeated by Mephisto.\n\nLiselot / Risella\n\nLiselot was Supreme Witch Haelia's daughter, and was a Mein-supporter who wished for the fusion of the witches and the Meins, an idea which was objected by some of the witched. After her failure to obtain approval for conducting business with the Meins, she resorted to other measures to infiltrate the Central Tower of the witches to kill off the High Witches, which includes procuring \"The Book of Spell Release\" to be able to dispel the spells placed around the tower. She ends up murdering Inea and was captured by the witches and burned at the stake, but not before notifying her mother of her research and intentions.\n\nShiole / Ciole\n\nShiole was the chairwitch of the witches council, and eventually went on to become the Chief Witch after the death of Haelia. Within the clan of witches, she supports the alliance with angels, and wishes to keep the peace in the underworld.\n\nLibrarian Inea\n\nInea was the former librarian of the Witches Clan. She focused on research to protect her clan from any danger, and managed to create a new defense spell which prevented Risella from achieving her goal. She is the mother that Irene never had as Irene's real mother died while \"creating\" her.\n\nViolin\n\nViolin has a high position in the Council of Witches and replaced Ciole as the chairwitch after the death of Haelia. She was the witch who proposed the \"Fighting Chess\" game to Mephisto.\n\nGretchin\n\n"}
{"id": "17685363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17685363", "title": "Suicide mission", "text": "Suicide mission\n\nA suicide mission is a task which is so dangerous for the people involved that they are not expected to survive. The term is sometimes extended to include suicide attacks such as kamikaze and suicide bombings, whose perpetrators actively commit suicide during execution of the mission. \n\nThe risks involved with suicide missions are not always apparent to those participating in them or to those who plan them. However, for an action to be considered a suicide mission someone involved must be aware of the risks; therefore, a mission that goes horribly wrong is not a suicide mission. Rather, in some instances, an individual or group taking part in a mission may perceive the risks involved to be far greater than what they believe to be acceptable, while those planning or commanding the mission may think otherwise; these situations can lead to refusals to participate in missions on the basis that they are \"suicide missions\". Conversely, planners or commanders may be well aware of the risks involved with missions while those participating in them may not.\n\nIn a military context, soldiers can be ordered to perform very dangerous tasks or can undertake them on their own initiative. For example, in the First World War, French soldiers mutinied \"en masse\" in 1917, after appalling losses convinced them that their participation at the front would inevitably lead to their deaths, and in October 2004, during the Iraq War, 17 soldiers in the US Army refused orders to drive unarmored fuel trucks near Baghdad, calling the task a \"suicide mission\". Those soldiers faced investigations for breakdown of discipline. \n\nAt the same time, many individuals or groups voluntarily undertake suicide missions in times of war. For example, both the Waffen SS and the Imperial Japanese Army were known for executing what could be labeled as suicide missions throughout the Second World War. \n\nSuicide missions can also be an act of desperation, such as a last stand. The latter end of the Battle of Stalingrad could be seen as a suicide mission from the German perspective, as they were ordered to fight to the death with no option of surrendering nor chance of escape.\n\nSpecial forces units are often sent on missions that are exceedingly dangerous with the hope that their superior training and abilities will allow them to complete them successfully and survive. An example is the desperate attempt by two U.S. Delta Force snipers to protect a downed helicopter pilot (Michael Durant) from being killed or captured by masses of Somali militia during the Battle of Mogadishu in 1993. While the sniper team held off overwhelming numbers of Somalis long enough for the pilot to survive, both snipers were killed, and the pilot was eventually captured but then later released. \n\nHowever, even special forces groups refuse to participate in some missions. Operation Mikado, a plan for a Special Air Service raid on Río Grande, Tierra del Fuego during the 1982 Falklands War, was ultimately not executed due in part to significant hostility from members of the SAS who saw the mission as exceedingly risky.\n\nArmed hostage takings, particularly those planned (e.g., by a terrorist group) for political purposes, could be considered suicide missions. As most governments have a policy of refusing to negotiate with terrorists, such incidents usually end with a bloody confrontation between the hostage takers and an armed force (e.g., police or military) attempting to free the hostages. In addition, such hostage takings often occur in a country foreign to the perpetrators, thereby limiting their chances of escape. Notable examples include the 1972 Munich massacre, the 1977 Landshut Hijacking, the 1980 Iranian Embassy Siege, the 1996 Japanese embassy hostage crisis, and the 2004 Beslan school hostage crisis. All of these high-profile hostage takings ended with the hostage takers being engaged by the military forces of the country in which the incident occurred, with the vast majority of the hostage takers being killed in the aftermath. The extent to which the hostage takers in each incident expected to survive or simply desired to capitalize on their publicity to send a message is a matter of speculation.\n\n"}
{"id": "20580874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20580874", "title": "Thrombolite", "text": "Thrombolite\n\nThrombolites are ancient forms of microbial communities that photosynthesize. They are clotted accretionary structures formed in shallow water by the trapping, binding, and cementation of sedimentary grains by biofilms of microorganisms, especially cyanobacteria. They are now only found in a few places in the world. Stromatolites are similar but consist of layered accretions. The ancestors of thrombolites and stromatolites are thought to have contributed to the increase in oxygen in Earth's atmosphere.\n\nThrombolites have a clotted structure which lacks the laminae of stromatolites and each clot within a thrombolite mound is a separate cyanobacterial colony. The clots are on the scale of millimetres to centimetres and may be interspersed with sand, mud or sparry carbonate. The larger clots make up more than 40% of a thrombolite's volume and each clot has a complex internal structure of cells and rimmed lobes resulting primarily from the in situ calcification of the cyanobacterial colony. Very little sediment is found within the clots as the main growth method is calcification rather than sediment trapping.\n\n"}
{"id": "1044236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1044236", "title": "Twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome", "text": "Twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome\n\nTwin-to-twin transfusion syndrome (TTTS), also known as feto-fetal transfusion syndrome (FFTS) and twin oligohydramnios-polyhydramnios sequence (TOPS), is a complication of disproportionate blood supply, resulting in high morbidity and mortality. It can affect monochorionic multiples, that is, multiple pregnancies where two or more fetuses share a chorion and hence a single placenta. Severe TTTS has a 60–100% mortality rate.\n\nAs a result of sharing a single placenta, the blood supplies of monochorionic twin fetuses can become connected, so that they share blood circulation: although each fetus uses its own portion of the placenta, the connecting blood vessels within the placenta allow blood to pass from one twin to the other. It is thought that most monochorionic placentae have these \"shared connections\" that cross the placenta, with the net flow volumes being equal between them. This state is sometimes referred to as \"flow balance\". Depending on the number, type and direction of the interconnecting blood vessels (anastomoses), blood can be transferred disproportionately from one twin (the \"donor\") to the other (the \"recipient\"), due to a state of \"flow imbalance\" imparted by new blood vessel growth across the placental \"equator\", the line that divides each baby's proportion of the shared placenta. This state of transfusion causes the donor twin to have decreased blood volume, retarding the donor's development and growth, and also decreased urinary output, leading to a lower than normal level of amniotic fluid (becoming oligohydramnios). The blood volume of the recipient twin is increased, which can strain the fetus's heart and eventually lead to heart failure, and also higher than normal urinary output, which can lead to excess amniotic fluid (becoming polyhydramnios).\n\nTTTS usually develops during the period of peak placental growth, starting in week 16 and proceeding through week 25; after this point, the placenta's growth decelerates, essentially stopping just after week 30. While TTTS has occasionally been detected beyond this timepoint, it is thought that its occurrence beyond week 30 may be due to a placental embolism that upsets the flow balance of the shared connections between the babies. TTTS is potentially lethal to either or both twins, no matter when it is detected. However, when detected past week 25, emergency delivery may be considered to rescue the babies if the TTTS is severe.\n\nOther than requiring a monochorionic twin (or higher multiple) pregnancy, the underlying causes of TTTS are not known. It is not known to be hereditary or genetic.\n\nSome doctors recommend complete bed-rest for the mother coupled with massive intakes of protein as a therapy to try to counteract the syndrome. Research completed shows these nutritional supplements do work. Diet supplementation was associated with lower overall incidence of TTTS (20/52 versus 8/51, P = 0.02) and with lower prevalence of TTTS at delivery (18/52 versus 6/51, P = 0.012) when compared with no supplementation. In the study, nutritional supplementation contained 250kcal, consisting of 6g of lipids, 40g of carbohydrates, 9g of protein, vitamins and minerals, consumed three times per day. Nutritional intervention also significantly prolonged the time between the diagnosis of TTTS and delivery (9.4 ± 3.7 weeks versus 4.6 ± 6.5 weeks; P = 0.014). The earlier nutritional regimen was introduced, the lesser chance of detecting TTTS ( P = 0.001). Although not statistically significant, dietary intervention was also associated with lower Quintero stage, fewer invasive treatments, and lower twin birth weight discordance. Diet supplementation appears to counter maternal metabolic abnormalities in monochorionic twin pregnancies and improve perinatal outcomes in TTTS when combined with the standard therapeutic options. Nutritional therapy appears to be most effective in mitigating cases that are caught in Quintero Stage I, little effect has been observed in those that are beyond Stage I.\n\nA staging system is commonly used to classify the severity of TTTS.\n\nStage I: A small amount of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios) is found around the donor twin and a large amount of amniotic fluid (polyhydramnios) is found around the recipient twin.\n\nStage II: In addition to the description above, the ultrasound is not able to identify the bladder in the donor twin.\n\nStage III: In addition to the characteristics of Stages I and II, there is abnormal blood flow in the umbilical cords of the twins.\n\nStage IV: In addition to all of the above findings, the recipient twin has swelling under the skin and appears to be experiencing heart failure (fetal hydrops).\n\nStage V: In addition to all of the above findings, one of the twins has died. This can happen to either twin. The risk to either the donor or the recipient is roughly equal & is quite high in Stage II or higher TTTS.\n\nThe Quintero staging does not provide information about prognosis, and other staging systems have been proposed.\n\nVarious treatments for TTTS include:\n\nThis is equivalent of zero intervention. It has been associated with almost 100% mortality rate of one or all fetuses. Exceptions to this include patients that are still in Stage 1 TTTS and are past 22 weeks' gestation.\n\nThis procedure involves removal of amniotic fluid periodically throughout the pregnancy under the assumption that the extra fluid in the recipient twin can cause preterm labor, perinatal mortality, or tissue damage. In the case that the fluid does not reaccumulate, the reduction of amniotic fluid stabilizes the pregnancy. Otherwise the treatment is repeated as necessary. There is no standard procedure for how much fluid is removed each time. There is a danger that if too much fluid is removed, the recipient twin could die. This procedure is associated with a 66% survival rate of at least one fetus, with a 15% risk of cerebral palsy and average delivery occurring at 29 weeks' gestation.\n\nThis procedure involves the tearing of the dividing membrane between fetuses such that the amniotic fluid of both twins mixes under the assumption that pressure is different in either amniotic sac and that its equilibration will ameliorate progression of the disease. It has not been proven that pressures are different in either amniotic sac. Use of this procedure can preclude use of other procedures as well as make difficult the monitoring of disease progression. In addition, tearing the dividing membrane has contributed to cord entanglement and demise of fetuses through physical complications.\n\nThis procedure involves endoscopic surgery using laser to interrupt the vessels that allow exchange of blood between fetuses under the assumption that the unequal sharing of blood through these vascular communications leads to unequal levels of amniotic fluid. Each fetus remains connected to its primary source of blood and nutrition, the placenta, through the umbilical cord. This procedure is conducted once, with the exception of all vessels not having been found. The use of endoscopic instruments allows for short recovery time. This procedure has been associated with 85% survival rate of at least one fetus, with a 6–7% risk of cerebral palsy and average delivery occurring at 32–33 weeks' gestation.\n\nTwin anemia-polycythemia sequence (TAPS) may occur after laser surgery for TTTS (post-laser form). The spontaneous form of TAPS complicates approximately 3 to 5% of monochorionic twin pregnancies, whereas the post-laser form occurs in 2 to 13% of TTTS cases. The pathogenesis of TAPS is based on the presence of few, minuscule arterio-venous (AV) placental anastomoses (diameter <1mm) allowing a slow transfusion of blood from the donor to the recipient and leading gradually to highly discordant Hb levels.\n\nA recent review found that laser coagulation resulted in fewer fetal and perinatal deaths than amnioreduction and septostomy, and recommended its use for all states of TTTS.\n\nThis procedure involves the ligation or otherwise occlusion of the umbilical cord to interrupt the exchange of blood between the fetuses. The procedure is typically offered in cases where one of the fetuses is presumed moribund and endangering the life or health of the other twin through resultant hypotension. Use of this treatment has decreased as TTTS is identified and treated in earlier stages and with better outcomes. When used, it is associated with an 85% survival rate of the remaining fetus(es) with 5% risk of cerebral palsy and a 33–39 weeks of gestation at delivery.\n\nBased on recent (2005) US NCHS data, the rate of multiple births is now approximately 3.4% (4,138,349 total births, of which 139,816 were twins or higher-order multiple births).\nThe majority of identical twins share a common (monochorionic) placenta, and of these approximately 15% go on to develop TTTS.\nBy extrapolating the number of expected identical twins (about one-third) from annual multiple births, and the number of twins with monochorionic placentae (about two-thirds), and from these the number thought to develop TTTS (about 15%), there are at least 4,500 TTTS cases per year in the U.S. alone: 139,816 × .33 × .66 × .15 = 4,568 cases of TTTS per year in U.S. (involving more than 9,000 babies.)\nSince spontaneous pregnancy losses and terminations that occur prior to 20 weeks go uncounted by the C.D.C., this estimate of TTTS cases may be very conservative.\nAlthough infertility treatments have increased the rate of multiple birth, they have not appreciably diluted the expected incidence of identical twins. Studies show a higher rate of identical twins (up to 20 times with IVF) using these treatments versus spontaneous pregnancy rates.\n\nOne Australian study, however, noted an occurrence of only 1 in 4,170 pregnancies, or 1 in 58 twin gestations. This distinction could be partly explained by the \"hidden mortality\" associated with MC multifetal pregnancies—instances lost due to premature rupture of membrane (PROM) or intrauterine fetal demise before a thorough diagnosis of TTTS can be made.\n\nTTTS was first described by a German obstetrician, Friedrich Schatz, in 1875. Once defined by neonatal parameters—differences in birth weight and cord hemoglobin at the time of delivery—TTTS is now defined differently. Today, it is known that discordant fetal weights will most likely be a late manifestation, and fetal hemoglobin through cordocentesis is often equivalent in the twin pair even in severe TTTS.\n\nA painting known as the \"De Wikkelkinderen\" (The Swaddled Children), from 1617, is thought to represent a depiction of TTTS. The drawing shows twins that appear to be identical, but one is pale (possibly anemic), while the other is red (possibly polycythemic). Analysis of the family histories of the owners of the painting suggests that the twins did not survive to adulthood, although whether that is due to TTTS is uncertain.\n\n"}
{"id": "1000334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1000334", "title": "Vasily Rozanov", "text": "Vasily Rozanov\n\nVasily Vasilievich Rozanov (; – 5 February 1919) was one of the most controversial Russian writers and philosophers of the pre-revolutionary epoch.\n\nRozanov tried to reconcile Christian teachings with ideas of healthy sex and family life, though as his adversary Nikolai Berdyaev put it, \"to set up sex in opposition to the Word\". Because of references to the phallus in Rozanov's writings, Klaus von Beyme called him the Rasputin of the Russian intelligentsia.\n\nRozanov's mature works are personal diaries containing intimate thoughts, impromptu lines, unfinished maxims, vivid aphorisms, reminiscences, and short essays. These works, in which he thus attempted to recreate the intonations of speech, form a loosely connected trilogy, comprising \"Solitaria\" (1911) and the two volumes of \"Fallen Leaves\" (1913 and 1915).\n\nRozanov frequently referred to himself as Fyodor Dostoyevsky's \"Underground Man\" and proclaimed his right to espouse contrary opinions at the same time. He first attracted attention in the 1890s when he published political sketches in the conservative newspaper \"Novoye Vremya\", owned and run by Aleksey Suvorin. Rozanov's comments, always paradoxical and sparking controversy, led him into clashes with the Tsarist government and with radicals such as Lenin. For example, Rozanov readily passed from criticism of Russian Orthodoxy, and even of what he saw as the Christian preoccupation with death, to fervent praise of Christian faith, from praise of Judaism to unabashed anti-Semitism, and from acceptance of homosexuality as yet another side of human nature to vitriolic accusations that Gogol and some other writers had been latent homosexuals. He proclaimed that politics was \"obsolete\" because \"God doesn't want politics any more,\" constructed an \"apocalypse of our times,\" and recommended the \"healthy instincts\" of the Russian people, their longing for authority, and their hostility to modernism.\n\nRozanov starved to death in a monastery in the hungry years following the Revolution. His work was suppressed and largely forgotten in the Soviet Union, though there were some prominent writers, including Maxim Gorky and Venedikt Erofeev among his admirers, and his ideas are thought to have exercised an influence on Vladimir Nabokov's approach to the everyday world of existence (быт/\"byt\") as utopic. Recently, however, his paradoxical writings have once again become available to Russian readers, and there has been somewhat of a resurgence among readers sympathetic to Rozanov's political views. Rozanov is the main source of inspiration for Dmitry Galkovsky's philosophical novel \"The Infinite Deadlock\" (1988), which revises 19th-century Russian history and places Rozanov at the center of Russian philosophical thought. Rozanov remains little known outside Russia, though some western scholars have become increasingly fascinated by his work and his persona.\n\n"}
{"id": "53319220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53319220", "title": "Vedius Aquila", "text": "Vedius Aquila\n\nVedius Aquila was a military commander of ancient Rome who lived in the 1st century CE. He commanded the thirteenth legion, and was one of Otho's generals during the Year of the Four Emperors. He was present in the First Battle of Bedriacum, in which Otho's troops were defeated by those of Vitellius, in 70.\n\nAfter Otho's suicide, Vedius Aquila subsequently espoused Vespasian's party.\n"}
{"id": "7820841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7820841", "title": "Venom (Marvel Comics character)", "text": "Venom (Marvel Comics character)\n\nVenom is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, commonly in association with Spider-Man. The character is a sentient alien Symbiote with an amorphous, liquid-like form, who requires a host, usually human, to bond with for its survival. After bonding with a human host, the Symbiote bestows its enhanced powers upon the host. When the Venom Symbiote bonds with a human, that new dual-life form usually refers to itself as \"Venom\". The Symbiote was originally introduced as a living alien costume in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #252 (May 1984), with a full first appearance as Venom in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #300 (May 1988).\n\nThe Venom Symbiote's first human host was Spider-Man, who eventually separated himself from the creature in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #258 (November 1984) (with a brief rejoining in \"Web of Spider-Man\" #1, five months later), when he discovered its true nefarious nature. The Symbiote went on to merge with other hosts, most notably Eddie Brock, its second and most infamous host, with whom it first became Venom and one of Spider-Man's archenemies. \n\nComics journalist and historian Mike Conroy writes of the character: \"What started out as a replacement costume for Spider-Man turned into one of the Marvel web-slinger's greatest nightmares.\" Venom was ranked as the 22nd Greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time in IGN's list of the top 100 comic villains. IGN also ranked Mac Gargan's incarnation of Venom as #17 in their list of \"The Top 50 Avengers\", while the Flash Thompson incarnation was ranked as #27. The character was listed as #33 on \"Empire\"s 50 Greatest Comic Book Characters.\n\nThe original idea of a new costume for Spider-Man that would later become the character Venom was conceived by a Marvel Comics reader from Norridge, Illinois named Randy Schueller. In 1982, Jim Shooter, Marvel's editor-in-chief at the time, sent Schueller a letter acknowledging Marvel's interest in the idea, which they ended up purchasing from him for $220.\n\nShooter came up with the idea of switching Spider-Man to a black-and-white costume, possibly influenced by the intended costume design for the new Spider-Woman, with artist Mike Zeck designing the black-and-white costume. Writer/artist John Byrne states on his website that the idea for a costume made of self-healing biological material was one he originated when he was the artist on \" Iron Fist \" to explain how that character's costume was constantly being torn and then apparently repaired by the next issue, explaining that he ended up not using the idea on that title, but that Roger Stern later asked him if he could use the idea for Spider-Man's alien costume. Stern in turn plotted the issue in which the costume first appeared but then left the title. It was writer Tom DeFalco and artist Ron Frenz who established that the costume was a sentient alien being that was vulnerable to high sonic energy during their run on \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" that preceded Michelinie's.\n\nThe Symbiote was first introduced as Spider-man's new black costume in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #252 (May 1984) as part of a story called \"Homecoming!\" The story takes place after Spider-Man's return from the events of the miniseries \"Secret Wars\", where he first obtains the black costume. The full first appearance of Venom is in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #300 (May 1988), after the Symbiote bonds with Eddie Brock.\n\nThe story of how Spider-Man gets his new black costume is recounted in \"Marvel Super Heroes Secret Wars\" #8 (December 1984), in which writer Jim Shooter and artist Mike Zeck depicted the heroes and villains of the Marvel Universe transported to another planet called Battleworld by a being called the Beyonder. After Spider-Man's costume is ruined from battles with the villains, he is directed by Thor and the Hulk to a room at the heroes' base where they inform him a machine can read his thoughts and instantly fabricate any type of clothing. Choosing a machine he believes to be the correct one, Spider-Man causes a black sphere to appear before him, which spreads over his body, dissolving the tattered old costume and covering his body to form a new black and white costume. To Spider-Man's surprise, the costume can mimic street clothes and provides a seemingly inexhaustible and stronger supply of webbing.\n\nDuring their run on \"The Amazing Spider-Man\", writer Tom DeFalco and artist Ron Frenz established that the costume was a sentient alien Symbiote that was vulnerable to both fire and high sonic energy. It was in that storyline that the costume would envelop Peter Parker while he slept, and go out at night to fight crime, leaving Parker inexplicably exhausted in the morning. Parker had the costume examined by Reed Richards, who discovered that it was alive, and when Parker realized it was trying to permanently bond to Parker's body, he rejected it, and it was subsequently contained by the Fantastic Four. The Symbiote escaped and bonded again to Parker, who used sound waves from a cathedral's church bell to repel it. But the symbiote had grown an emotional attachment to Peter so he willingly left Peter's unconscious body and moved him to safety before disappearing.\n\nDavid Michelinie would later write the backstory of Eddie Brock as the alien's new host that would become the villain Venom, using the events of Peter David's 1985 \"Sin Eater\" storyline in \"The Spectacular Spider-Man\" as a basis for Brock's origin. Venom's existence was first indicated in \"Web of Spider-Man\" #18 (September 1986), when he shoved Peter Parker in front of a subway train without Parker's spider-sense warning him, though only Brock's hand was seen on-panel. The next indication of Venom's existence was in \"Web of Spider-Man\" #24 (March 1987), when Parker climbed out of a high story window to change into Spider-Man, but found a black arm coming through the window and grabbing him, again without being warned by his spider-sense. Venom made his cameo appearance on the last page of \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #299 (April 1988), when he terrorized Parker's wife, Mary Jane Watson, and made his full appearance in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #300 (May 1988).\n\nSpider-Man would confront him in the following issue, when Brock reveals that he was a \"Daily Globe\" reporter who worked on the Sin-Eater case, and that his career was ruined when it was discovered that the man Brock announced as the Sin-Eater was a compulsive confessor. Forced to eke out a living writing lurid stories for venomous tabloids, Brock blamed Spider-Man for his predicament. He took up bodybuilding to reduce stress. It failed to do so, and Brock sank into a suicidal depression. Seeking solace at the church where Spider-Man repelled the Symbiote, the Symbiote—sensing Brock's hatred for Spider-Man—bonded with the disgraced reporter. Brock took on the name Venom in reference to the sensationalistic material he was forced to traffic in following his fall from grace.\n\nOver the years, as the Symbiote gained more intelligence and moved to additional human hosts, the name began to apply to the Symbiote as well as its hosts. As Venom, Brock fights Spider-Man many times, winning on several occasions. Venom repeatedly tries to kill Peter Parker/Spider-Man—both when the latter was in and out of costume. Thus Parker is forced to abandon his \"black costume\", which the Symbiote had been mimicking, after Venom confronts Parker's wife Mary Jane.\n\nVenom escapes from the supervillain prison, The Vault, to torment Spider-Man and his family. The Symbiote is finally rendered comatose after being subdued by Styx's plague virus, and Eddie Brock is subsequently placed in Ryker's Island Prison. When the Symbiote recovers and returns to free Brock, it leaves a spawn to bond with Brock's psychotic serial-killer cellmate Cletus Kasady, who becomes Carnage. Meanwhile, Venom and Spider-Man fight on a deserted island, and Spider-Man strands Venom there after faking his own death. Soon after, however, Spider-Man brings Venom back to New York City in order to stop Carnage's killing spree. After being incarcerated once again, Venom is used to create five new Symbiotes, which are all paired with human hosts.\nAs well as helping Eddie Brock to seek continued revenge against Spider-Man, the Symbiote also aids Brock in a sporadic career as a vigilante. He and the Symbiote occasionally share a desire to protect innocent people from harm, even if it means working side-by-side with the hated Spider-Man. This is especially true when Venom combats the entity he believes to be his spawn, Carnage. When Spider-Man helps Venom save Brock's ex-wife Anne Weying, the two form a temporary truce, though this falls apart after Weying's suicide.\n\nThe Symbiote is temporarily stolen by U.S. Senator Steward Ward, who hopes to better understand his own alien infection by researching the Symbiote before it returns to Brock. Now, however, it \"dominates\" its host, Brock, rather than vice versa. Eventually, Eddie Brock and the Symbiote go their separate ways as the Symbiote grows tired of having a diseased host and Eddie rejects its growing bloodlust, leading him to sell the Symbiote at a super villain auction.\n\nThe creature that would become Venom was born to a race of extraterrestrial Symbiotes, which lived by possessing the bodies of other life-forms. The parasites would endow their victims with enhanced physical abilities, at the cost of fatally draining them of adrenaline. According to the 1995 \"Planet of the Symbiotes\" storyline, the Venom Symbiote was deemed insane by its own race after it was discovered that it desired to commit to its host rather than use it up. The Symbiote was then imprisoned on Battleworld to ensure it did not pollute the species' gene pool.\n\nThe symbiote bonds with its new host, Lee Price, launching volume 3 of the \"Venom\" comic book series. The series ran for six issues total (Nov. 2016-April 2017). Eddie Brock is able to regain the Venom symbiote at the conclusion of the series, returning the \"Venom\" comic book title to volume 1 with issue #150.\n\nThe Venom Symbiote approaches Mac Gargan, the villain formerly known as Scorpion, and offered him new abilities as the second Venom. Gargan bonded with the creature, which would later give him an extra edge as part of Norman Osborn's Sinister Twelve. As the Avengers dealt with the rest of the Twelve, Spider-Man swiftly defeated Gargan, even with these additional powers, which Spider-Man suggests is attributed to the fact that Mac Gargan does not hate Spider-Man as much as Eddie Brock did.\nGargan later became a member of a sub-group of the Thunderbolts, which was drafted by the Avengers to hunt down the members of the fugitive New Avengers. It was then revealed that he had been outfitted with electrical implants by the government to keep the Symbiote in check.\n\nWhen in the Venom persona, Gargan retained very little of his original personality and was controlled almost completely by the Symbiote, which drove him to cannibalism. When the Symbiote was dormant in his body, he expressed nausea and fear of the organism. During a fight with \"Anti-Venom\" (Eddie Brock), he and his Symbiote were separated, and the Venom Symbiote was nearly destroyed. Blobs of it still existed in his bloodstream, however, so Osborn injected Gargan with a vaccine for Anti-Venom's healing powers, which restored the Symbiote by causing the remaining pieces of it to expand rapidly. Gargan dons a Scorpion battle armor over the Symbiote while it heals, causing him to become what Spider-Man calls \"Ven-orpion\" although when the Symbiote is fully restored it shatters the armor.\n\nAfter ingesting a chemical given to him by Norman Osborn, Venom transforms into a more human appearance similar to the Black-Suited Spider-Man. Osborn introduces him as The Amazing Spider-Man, a member of the Dark Avengers, while unveiling the team. After the Siege of Asgard, Gargan and most of the Dark Avengers were taken into custody. While being held on the Raft, the Venom Symbiote was forcefully removed from him, ending his run as Venom.\n\nOn December 9, 2010, Marvel Comics announced a new \"black ops\" Venom owned by the government. This new Venom was featured in a new series called \"Venom\" in March 2011. The birth of the new Venom can be seen in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #654 in February 2011. On January 28, 2011, the identity of \"black ops\" Venom was revealed to be Flash Thompson. Flash is hired by the government to be a special agent wearing the Venom Symbiote. Flash is only allowed to wear the suit for up to 48 hours, or risk a permanent bonding with the Symbiote. Along with the alien, Flash is equipped with a \"Multi-Gun\" designed to change into any type of gun Flash needs. The Government is also equipped with a \"kill switch\" designed to take Flash out if he loses control. Flash rejects the kill switch and later joins the Secret Avengers, Thunderbolts, Guardians of the Galaxy, and even becomes appointed by the Klyntar a Space Knight.\n\nAfter being separated from Flash Thompson through unspecified means, the Venom symbiote happens upon a black market deal between Black Cat's gang and Tombstone's gang. He resorts to bonding with one of the men present, a discharged Army Ranger named Lee Price who was with Scorpion as part of Black Cat's gang. The weakened symbiote pleads with Price, attempting to convince him to become a hero like Thompson. Price ignores and overpowers it, intent on using it for personal gain as a new, wholly villainous Venom.\n\nLee Price makes his way to Black Cat's hideout where Scorpion accuses him of botching the black market sale by causing the shoot-out. After having to keep the Venom symbiote from attacking Black Cat, Lee Price takes his leave from Black Cat's lair as Scorpion gets suspicious towards Lee. His departure is seen by some FBI Agents. Lee Price later gets attacked by Tombstone's minion Firebug. Upon defeating Firebug, an FBI Agent with a bazooka appears telling Lee Price that he is under arrest.\n\nLee Price eventually loses the symbiote when Eddie Brock and Spider-Man take him down and he is arrested by the NYPD.\n\nWhile incarcerated at the New York Corrections Supermax Facility for Superhuman Incarceration, Lee Price is feared by most of the inmates and he even defeats three inmates in the prison's cafeteria when they try to kill him to boost their reputation. Lee swears to get out, reclaim the Venom symbiote, and plan revenge on those who have wronged him. Lee Price is later visited by his lawyer who tells him that two of the inmates he defeated had died in the infirmary and that Venom has resurfaced upon it being revealed in the news. At the courthouse, Lee Price's lawyer stated that Lee's actions as Venom were caused by the Venom symbiote while the opposing lawyer mentions about Venom still being at large. The judge then asked for some evidence to help with the trial. After the trial, Lee Price is released from prison and begins his plans to reclaim the Venom symbiote and take revenge on those who have wronged him.\n\nIn Venom Inc., Lee Price steals the Mania symbiote from Andy and becomes Maniac. He uses the symbiote to infect the crime bosses and become a criminal kingpin, but he is defeated by Spider-Man, Venom, Black Cat and Agent Anti-Venom.\n\nIt is revealed in \"Venom: First Host\" that Peter Parker is not Venom's first host. Venom's first host is actually a \"Kree\" soldier named Tel-Kar. The Kree, desiring to replicate \"Skrull\" shapeshifting abilities, obtain the newborn Venom, which had been outcast from the other symbiotes. Tel-Kar is recruited to be bonded to the newborn symbiote so that he can infiltrate the Skrull army. Tel-Kar's body is biologically altered so he can have full control over the symbiote's mind to the point of erasing its memories. Separated from Tel-Kar after his capture by the Skrulls, the symbiote goes on to be bonded to Spider-Man. \n\nTel-Kar escapes the Skrulls and wanders through the Galaxy until he hears of an agent from Earth called Flash Thompson with a black symbiote suit. Recognizing it as his symbiote, he goes to Earth to find it. Eddie Brock arrives with the symbiote and saves Tel-Kar from the Warbride Skrull M'Lanz, who had followed him. Angered by Venom's refusal to return to him, Tel-Kar threatens to kill Venom's latest offspring. Acceding to Tel-Kar, Venom reunites with him and they go to a Skrull research base to get a Skrull bioweapon. Simultaneously, Eddie is bonded to the offspring calling itself Sleeper and allies with M'Lanz to stop Tel-Kar. During the ensuing battle, Tel-Kar concludes that he doesn't need Venom anymore and uses an electrified spear to detach himself from it. Later he is betrayed by the Kree Empire while Eddie escapes with Venom and M'Lanz with Sleeper. Tel-Kar, now furious, attempts to release the bioweapon on Earth. Sleeper bonds to Tel-Kar and lobotomizes him. Sleeper, now with Tel'Kar's body, wishes Eddie farewell and goes to explore the universe.\n\nThere have been other, shorter term hosts for the symbiote.\n\nIn the Planet of the Symbiotes storyline, the symbiote was rejected by Eddie, causing it to release a powerful scream that attracts the other symbiotes to Earth. Subsequently the symbiote sees Scarlet Spider, (Ben Reilly) and takes the form of his hooded top attempting to bond to Ben mistaking him for Spider-man. When it was later discovered by Brock and Peter Parker, the symbiote returned to Eddie.\n\nAnne Weying first appears in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #375. She is Eddie Brock's ex-wife and a successful lawyer. Weying assists Spider-Man by sharing some of Brock's history. Later, she follows Spider-Man to the amusement park where Venom had Peter's (fake) parents. She confronts Brock and manages to convince him to end his feud. After Sin-Eater shoots Ann as part of a crusade against social injustice, Ann becomes She-Venom when the Venom Symbiote temporarily bonds with her to save her life. She-Venom lashes out against the men who had hurt her, and Brock becomes afraid for her (and of her) and compels the Symbiote to return to him. Ann is left distraught at her actions while bonded. Later Ann is arrested on a false charge as part of a trap for Venom. She manages to warn Brock who sends the Symbiote to her, allowing her to become She-Venom and escape custody. Some time later, Ann, traumatized by her experiences with Venom and the Symbiote, commits suicide after seeing Spider-Man pass by her window in a black costume, believing it is Brock returning for her.\n\nThe story follows U.S. Army communication specialist Patricia Robertson. During a supply run to an Ararat Corporation owned outpost she discovers everyone at the installation dead except for one scientist. It is revealed that the Ararat Corporation is run by an alien colony of miniature spider robots led by an entity named Bob, that have infiltrated the American government. The Ararat Corporation has cloned Venom to facilitate the extermination of humanity, but the clone ravages its hosts. The clone is responsible for the death of the outpost crew.\n\nRobertson finds an ally in the Suit, a mysterious individual made of the same miniature robots as Bob, revealed to have been accidentally brought to Earth by Reed Richards. The Suit modifies Robertson while she is unconscious to allow her to control the clone if it bonds with her. The Suit sabotages Wolverine, the clones favored host, forcing it to bond with Robertson. One of Bob's agents convinces Robertston to kill the real Venom to save humanity, causing her to free the incarcerated Venom. She and Venom fight, but Venom escapes. Bob remotely deactivates the technology allowing Robertson to control the clone forcing her to rely on willpower. Later, Robertson and Venom again fight, and Venom absorbs the clone. Venom decides to carry out the clone's mission given to it by the Ararat corporation. The series did not continue and the plot remained unresolved as of 2012. The Venom Symbiote would later regurgitate and expel the clone from its body, allowing it to bond with a teenager named Andrea \"Andi\" Benton. Taking the name Mania, Benton became Agent Venom's partner for a time.\n\nAngelo Fortunato first appeared in \"Marvel Knights Spider-Man\" #7 and was killed in issue #8. Angelo is the son of Don Fortunato, a prominent Mafia capo. His frail physique and shy attitude leave Angelo frequently bullied and humiliated by his father. Don attends a supervillain auction and purchases the Venom Symbiote from Brock for $100 million. Brock warns Angelo of the Symbiote, but Angelo rebuffs him, saying that he has nothing to lose. After bonding with the Symbiote, Angelo discovers the secret identity of Spider-Man, and attempts to kill him to prove his worth. Spider-Man ultimately defeats Angelo and when he tries to escape, the Symbiote abandons Angelo for his cowardice while he is leaping between buildings, leaving him to fall to his death. Spider-Man tried to save him, but he ran out of webs.\n\nDuring the Siege of Asgard Mac Gargan with the symbiote was fighting Spider-Man and Ms. Marvel. When they separated Mac from Venom, the symbiote briefly bonded to Carol and started flying away while Venom sad that Ms. Marvel is its favourite superhero. But Carol gathered her powers and detached from the symbiote which rebonded to Mac.\n\nWhen Red Hulk came crashing into to Flash's apartment so he can recruit him, the symbiote sensing Red Hulk as danger, briefly bonds to him so he doesn't any harm to Flash. Then when Red Hulk calms down, the symbiote went to Flash.\n\nWhen Flash Thompson with the symbiote was infiltrating into the Crime Master's men, Superior Spider-Man came attacking the criminals who was then confronted by Agent Venom. Doc Ock thinking that Venom was still evil he attacked Flash with Web Shooters filled with burner fuel and in the process injured Flash. While Flash was recovering, Superior Spider-Man put the symbiote in a canister and gave Flash a pair of prosthetic legs. Then the symbiote broke out and instead of bonding to Flash it bonded to Superior Spider-Man since it was still connected to Peter's body. After bonding to the symbiote Otto called himself the Superior Venom and went solving crime in a much brutal way. Then Mary Jane called the Avengers to stop the Superior Venom. But the Avengers proved to be no match to Superior Venom since he had the abilities of Spider-Man powered by Venom with the mind of Doctor Octopus combined. In the fight Otto realizes that the symbiote was messing with his head and with the help Peter's couscousnes and Flash's who had arrived in an Iron Man armour separated Otto from Venom and returning to Flash.\n\nWhen Flash was part of the Guardians of the Galaxy he got separated from the symbiote and his team mates decided to send him to Earth. While traveling Groot accidentally bonds to the symbiote and started attacking the others. Then Rocket tried to save his friend, but the symbiote left Groot and bonded to him. Then he tried to convince them to leave \"his\" ship, but Drax grabbed Rocket by the tail and started bashing him to the walls until the symbiote bonded to Drax and defeated the whole team. Now the symbiote possessed Drax took control of the ship and went to a planet formed from symbiotes named Klyntar (later revealed to be Knull's cage) where the symbiote got purified and rebonded to Flash.\n\nAgent Venom as Venom Space Knight foils the Gramosian's attempts to steal resources from the home planets of the P'qui and the Wugin, and to acquire chemical weapons derived from the blood of kidnapped Vvexians.\n\nMercurio forces a Ruu'lto named Pik Rollo, whose child he is holding hostage, to try and assassinate Agent Venom, but Rollo instead betrays Mercurio, and joins forces with Venom. When the two lay siege to Mercurio's headquarters, he incapacitates and imprisons them, and separates the Venom symbiote from Flash Thompson. Sensing the symbiote's suppressed bloodlust, Mercurio attempts to convince it to join him, but it instead frees and returns to Thompson. The reformed Agent Venom and his allies proceed to dismantle Mercurio's forces, but Mercurio himself escapes, and swears vengeance on both the symbiote and Thompson.\n\nA bout of temporary insanity that the Venom symbiote subsequently experiences is eventually discerned to have been caused by its brief fusion with Mercurio, whose evil had undone the mental \"cleansing\" that the creature had earlier undergone.\n\nWhen Eddie encounters Spider-Woman, she attempts to take him into custody, in the belief that he is still a villain. After rendering him unconscious, the symbiote attacks Spider-Woman. After a struggle, the symbiote bonds to her, and shows her the life that Eddie has led, convincing her of his aspirations to do good.\n\nThough it requires a living host in order to survive, the Venom symbiote has been shown to be adept at fending for itself independent of a host. The Symbiote is capable of shapeshifting abilities, including the ability to form spikes or expand its size, as well as mimic the appearance of other humanoids after it has obtained a host. The organism can additionally use its shape-shifting abilities to conceal itself by altering its coloration or by becoming completely invisible. It also contains a small \"dimensional aperture\", allowing its hosts to carry items without adding mass to the costume. The Symbiote also exhibits telepathic abilities, primarily when it needs to communicate with its host.\n\nBecause of its contact with Spider-Man, the Symbiote grants all of its subsequent hosts that hero's powers and cannot be detected by his spider-sense. As Spider-Man's fighting style is partly dependent on his spider-sense, his effectiveness was somewhat hampered when he battled Eddie Brock. Retaining its memory from the time it was bonded with Spider-Man, Venom is also capable of producing webbing similar to Spider-Man's own variety created from itself.\n\nThe Symbiote greatly enhances the physical strength of those it bonds with. Its hosts experience a vastly larger size and musculature. The Symbiote displays non-human teeth, which are very sharp, and commonly protrudes a long tongue from its mouth. Venom is depicted as being physically much bigger than Spider-Man, as well as having more brute strength.\n\nVenom exhibits some immunities to the supernatural powers of others such as the Penance Stare of Ghost Rider or Spider-Man's extrasensory spider-sense. \n\nSome incarnations of the Venom Symbiote have shown it able to replicate itself. This ability is shown in the 2005–2006 miniseries \"\", when Venom recreates his own Symbiote to combat his loneliness.\n\nThe Venom Symbiote is vulnerable to fire and sonic waves, causing it great pain and exhaustion if it sustains enough exposure. It can sense and track all of its offspring Symbiotes except Carnage, who learned how to block this ability shortly after bonding with Cletus Kasady and confronting Venom/Eddie Brock for the first time.\n\nThe Venom symbiote is shown to form giant Web-like dragon wings when it was in contact with Knull.\n\nAs a fictional character, Venom has appeared in various adaptations, from comic books to films and television series. Each version of the work typically establishes its own continuity, and sometimes introduces parallel universes, to the point where distinct differences in the portrayal of the character can be identified. This article details various versions of Venom depicted in works including Marvel Comics' Ultimate universe and \"What If\" issues.\n\n\nVenom's first appearance in a motion picture was originally planned for a titular film written by David S. Goyer and produced by New Line Cinema, in which Venom would have been portrayed as an antihero and Carnage as the antagonist. By 2007, the film rights to Venom had reverted to Sony Pictures.\n\nEddie Brock / Venom appears as the primary antagonist in the 2007 feature film \"Spider-Man 3\", played by Topher Grace. In the film, the Symbiote, after being rejected by Peter Parker, joins with Brock after the rival freelance photographer is exposed by Parker to have used a fake photograph, which ruins him publicly. Venom seeks an alliance with Flint Marko / Sandman to kill Spider-Man, but is thwarted in his plans and killed by one of the New Goblin's pumpkin bombs.\n\nIn July 2007, Sony executive Avi Arad revealed a spin-off of Sam Raimi's \"Spider-Man\" trilogy focused on the Venom Symbiote was in the planning stages, with Jacob Aaron Estes commissioned to write a script, tentatively entitled \"Venom\". In September 2008, Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick signed on to write the film after Estes' script was rejected, while Gary Ross would direct. \"Variety\" reported that Venom would become an anti-hero in the film, and Marvel Entertainment would produce the film. The potential film was ultimately cancelled.\n\nThe Venom Symbiote has a cameo appearance at the end of the 2014 feature film \"The Amazing Spider-Man 2\" in the Oscorp building, in a scene which features Gustav Fiers / The Gentleman walking past many of Oscorp's technology and experiments, including Vulture's wings and the mechanical arms of Doctor Octopus. In the viral marketing campaign for \"The Amazing Spider-Man 2\" an article by Eddie Brock (one of the most notable hosts of Venom) detailing the capture of Cletus Cassidy (who later went on to become Carnage) was featured, with Anne Weying, who in the comics became the Bride of Venom, being mentioned in another article; these articles coming from the fictional Marvel universe's \"The Daily Bugle\".\n\nIn March 2012, Josh Trank was in talks to direct a new \"Venom\" film as a part of \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" film series. In December 2013, Sony officially announced two spin-offs of \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" film series, involving a \"Venom\" film, now known as \"Venom: Carnage\", and \"Sinister Six\", respectively, with the first to be written by Alex Kurtzman, Roberto Orci and Ed Solomon, with Kurtzman directing it. In September 2014, Kurtzman stated that they had been considering different incarnations of the character, including Eddie Brock, Anne Weying, and Flash Thompson. The movie, among the other spin-offs were cancelled prior to the studios' contract agreement with Marvel Studios.\n\nIn March 2016, following the introduction of Spider-Man to the Marvel Cinematic Universe, it was announced that Sony was moving forward with a standalone film by hiring Dante Harper to write the script, and Arad, Matt Tolmach and Amy Pascal producing. The film was initially reported to have no connection to the Marvel Cinematic Universe, nor have any relation to Spider-Man, and that it would be set in its own continuity. A year later, Sony announced that \"Venom\" would be released on October 5, 2018 with Scott Rosenberg and Jeff Pinkner signed on as screenwriters. It was reported to be Rated R and be the first in a series of Spider-Man character-related spin-off films called \"Sony's Marvel Universe\". In May 2017, Tom Hardy was announced to be cast as Eddie Brock / Venom, with Ruben Fleischer attached to direct. Carlton Drake / Riot appeared as the film's primary antagonist, as did Anne Weying, Brock's ex-wife from the comics. The film has been described by the film's director Ruben Fleischer to be taking inspiration from the works of David Cronenberg and John Carpenter. The supporting cast also consists of Riz Ahmed, Michelle Williams and Jenny Slate. \"Variety\" reported that Kelly Marcel would write the script with Pinkner and Rosenberg. Filming officially began on October 23, 2017. \"Venom\" was released in the United States on October 5, 2018 with a PG-13 rating.\n\nVenom is a playable character and boss character in a number of video games across several platforms. \n\n\n\n"}
