{"id": "1250506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1250506", "title": "Abu Bakr II", "text": "Abu Bakr II\n\nAbu Bakr II (fl. 14th century), also spelled Abubakri and known as Mansa Qu, may have been the ninth mansa of the Mali Empire. He succeeded his nephew Mansa Mohammed ibn Gao and preceded Mansa Musa. Abu Bakr II abdicated his throne in order to explore \"the limits of the ocean\".\n\nAbu Bakar was one of two sons of Cheikh Anta Diop, a sister of the founding emperor Sundiata Keita. He was the last of a mini-dynasty within the Keita clan of emperors descending from Kolonkan. After his abdication in 1311, the Faga Laye mini-dynasty would control the empire.\n\nVirtually all that is known of Abu Bakr II is from the account of Chihab al-Umari. Al-Umari visited Cairo after Mansa Musa stopped there during his historic hajj to Mecca, and recorded a conversation between Musa and his host, Abu'l Hasan Ali ibn Amir Habib. According to Musa, Abu Bakr became convinced that he could find the edge of the Atlantic Ocean, and outfitted two expeditions to find it.\n\nFollowing Abu Bakr II's failure to return from the second of those expeditions, Mansa Musa acceded to the throne.\n\nThe Arab-Egyptian scholar Al-Umari quotes Mansa Musa as follows:The ruler who preceded me did not believe that it was impossible to reach the extremity of the ocean that encircles the earth (meaning Atlantic), and wanted to reach that (end) and obstinately persisted in the design. So he equipped two hundred boats full of men, as many others full of gold, water and victuals sufficient enough for several years. He ordered the chief (admiral) not to return until they had reached the extremity of the ocean, or if they had exhausted the provisions and the water. They set out. Their absence extended over a long period, and, at last, only one boat returned. On our questioning, the captain said: 'Prince, we have navigated for a long time, until we saw in the midst of the ocean as if a big river was flowing violently. My boat was the last one; others were ahead of me. As soon as any of them reached this place, it drowned in the whirlpool and never came out. I sailed backwards to escape this current.' But the Sultan would not believe him. He ordered two thousand boats to be equipped for him and for his men, and one thousand more for water and victuals. Then he conferred on me the regency during his absence, and departed with his men on the ocean trip, never to return nor to give a sign of life.\n\nIvan van Sertima and Malian researcher Gaoussou Diawara, proposed that Abu Bakr II traveled to the New World. Van Sertima cites the abstract of Columbus's log made by Bartolomé de las Casas, according to which the purpose of Columbus's third voyage was to test both the claims of King John II of Portugal that \"canoes had been found which set out from the coast of Guinea [West Africa] and sailed to the west with merchandise\" as well as the claims of the native inhabitants of the Caribbean island of Hispaniola that \"from the south and the southeast had come black people whose spears were made of a metal called guanín ... from which it was found that of 32 parts: 18 were gold, 6 were silver, and 8 copper.\" Another supporting claim was made by Washington Irving, in his \"Life of Columbus\", who wrote that in 1503 Columbus was on the Mosquito Coast. \"There was no pure gold to be met with here, all their ornaments were of guanine; but the natives assured the Adelantado that in proceeding along the coast, the ships would soon arrive at a country where gold was in abundance\".\n\nHowever, many archaeologists, anthropologists, ethnohistorians, linguists, and other modern pre-Columbian scholars say that there is no evidence of any such voyage reaching the Americas, and that there are insufficient evidential grounds to suppose there has been contact between Africa and the New World at any point in the pre-Columbian era. For views representative of this point of view, see the considerations on the question advanced in Haslip-Viera \"et al.\" (1997), who for example note \"no genuine African artifact has ever been found in a controlled archaeological excavation in the New World\". See also the supporting responses in peer-review printed in the article, by David Browman, Michael D. Coe, Ann Cyphers, Peter Furst, and other academics active in the field. Ortiz de Montellano \"et al.\" (1997, \"passim.\") continues the case against Africa-Americas contacts. Other prominent Mesoamerican specialists such as UCR Riverside anthropology professor Karl Taube are confident that \"There simply is no material evidence of any Pre-Hispanic contact between the Old World and Mesoamerica before the arrival of the Spanish in the sixteenth century\".\n\nA BBC article titled \"Africa's greatest explorer\" summarizes the controversy from the perspectives of the scholars and historians in Mali.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "697734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=697734", "title": "Achilleis (trilogy)", "text": "Achilleis (trilogy)\n\nThe Achilleis (after the Ancient Greek , \"Achillēis\", ) is a lost trilogy by the Athenian dramatist Aeschylus. The three plays that make up the \"Achilleis\" exist today only in fragments, but aspects of their overall content can be reconstructed with reasonable certainty. Like the \"Oresteia\" which forms \"a narratively connected unit with a continuous plot,\" the trilogy had a unified focus, presumably treating the story of Achilles at Troy in a version comparable to the plot of the latter two-thirds of the \"Iliad\". In the Myrmidons (, \"Myrmidónes\"), Achilles' refusal to fight after his quarrel with Agamemnon led to the death of Patroclus. The title of the play traditionally placed second in the trilogy is the Nereids (, \"Nēreídes\"). The chorus was thus a group of Nereids, and the subject of the play involved Achilles and his Nereid mother Thetis, probably her mourning his imminent death and the acquisition of his new arms. In the Phrygians (, \"Phrýges\") or \"Ransom of Hector\" (Ἕκτορος λύτρα, \"Héktoros lútra\"), Priam and a chorus of Phrygians sought to retrieve Hector's body from the still wroth Achilles.\n\nNeither the trilogy's title \"Achilleis\" nor the grouping of the plays is explicitly attested from antiquity, but the existence of a unified trilogy with Achilles as its focus has long been accepted by modern scholars. In his commentary on \"The Libation Bearers\", Garvie states that it is \"highly likely that Aeschylus often, though not always (of the surviving plays \"Persae\" is an almost certain exception) composed trilogies consisting of tragedies connected in their subject matter.\" In addition to the \"Oresteia\" (to which 'The Libation Bearers' belongs), the \"Seven Against Thebes\" and \"Suppliants\" formed part of connected trilogies, as did the lost plays that make up the \"Lycurgeia\".\nThe satyr plays that accompanied these examples had plots related to those of the tragedies, and it has been suggested that the \"Achilleis\" might also have been followed by a comedic play related to its dramatic content, but there is no evidence as to what the subject of this satyr play might have been.\n\nSince the \"Achilleis\" survives in fragments, its text is comparatively more fluid than that of ancient texts with medieval manuscript traditions. During the first half of the 20th century papyrus fragments of numerous lost Aeschylean plays, including the \"Myrmidons\", were discovered that added much material to, and greatly altered the modern conception of, the dramatist's corpus. Given this fluidity, it is especially important to consult the most current critical edition or translations of the text, since earlier editions will likely not reflect the advances of the past century. In the case of the fragments of Aeschylus, the edition of record is the third volume of \"Tragicorum Graecorum fragmenta\" edited by (1985). While it is now customary to refer to the text and numeration of Radt, the majority of the fragments of the \"Achilleis\" can also be found in 's 1959 edition. For example, fr. 140 Radt and 232 Mette refer to the same three-word fragment of the \"Myrmidons\", uttered (in Mette's opinion) by Achilles: \"Arms! I want arms!\" (, \"hóplōn hóplōn deî\"). Sommerstein's Loeb is the most current English translation and follows the numeration of Radt, as does this article.\n\nGiven Aeschylus' tendency to write connected trilogies, three plays attested in the catalogue of his work have been supposed to constitute the \"Achilleis\": \"Myrmidons\", \"Nereids\" and \"Phrygians\" (alternately titled \"The Ransoming of Hector\"). Despite the paucity of surviving text, the \"Myrmidons\" has achieved some measure of fame, because of Aristophanes' satire of it at \"Frogs\" 911–13 in which Euripides mocks Aeschylus' stagecraft:\n\nThis play, along with the also lost \"Niobe\", are two famous examples cited in antiquity of the often-discussed theme of the \"Aeschylean silence\".\n\n\"Myrmidons\" (frr. 131–42 Radt; 211–35 Mette) concerned Achilles' refusal to fight for the Greeks, which tragically leads to the killing of his companion Patroclus by the Trojan hero, Hector; this death persuades Achilles to rejoin the fight.\n\nIn \"Nereids\" (frr. 150–54 Radt; 236–41 Mette), Thetis and a chorus of sea-nymphs bring Achilles his new armor. The remainder of the action probably would have concerned his revenge killing of Hector and Patroclus' funeral.\n\nThe action of \"Phrygians\" (frr. 263–72 Radt; 242–59 Mette) almost certainly corresponded with Book 24 of the \"Iliad\": Achilles' defilement of Hector's corpse and his eventually agreeing to ransom the body back to the grieving father, Priam.\n\nA small number of verses from these three of Aeschylus' lost works have been saved: fifty-four from \"Myrmidons\", seven from \"Nereids\" and twenty-one from \"Phrygians.\" A sense of the pace at which additions to this corpus are made can be gleaned from the fact that a papyrus fragment containing seven letters on three lines that could be fitted over a two-line quote from Justin Martyr's dialogue \"Trypho\", to show that the quote was in fact from the opening of \"Myrmidons\" was worth publishing in a note in \"Classical Philology\", 1971.\n\nThe \"Achilleis\" and the circumstances of its transmission came to broader public notice in 2003 when ThoC, Cyprus' national theatre, announced that it would be staging an adaptation (by way of creative reconstruction) of the trilogy by Elias Malandris. Malandris' \"Achilleis\", on which he had worked for more than a decade, built upon classicist Bruno Snell's work on the fragments and filled out their content with material adapted from the \"Iliad\" and other ancient references to Achilles. On the process of staging a largely lost work of ancient tragedy, Andy Bargilly, then director of the Theatre, stated: \"We do think it is a faithful adaptation to a large extent, but nobody can say 100 percent.\" The reconstructed trilogy premiered July 7, 2004, with Mario Frangoulis as Achilles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58166060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58166060", "title": "Alexander Sergeyevich Lappo-Danilevsky", "text": "Alexander Sergeyevich Lappo-Danilevsky\n\nAlexander Sergeyevich Lappo-Danilevsky (1863-1919) was a Russian historian and sociologist.\n\nHe attended the University of St. Petersburg, graduating from the Faculty of History and Philology in 1886.\n\nHe played an influential role in introducing Nikolai Kondratiev to sociology, economics and scientific method.\n\nHe is buried in the Smolensky Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "31477548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31477548", "title": "Anne Dowriche", "text": "Anne Dowriche\n\nAnne Dowriche (before 1560– after 1613) was an English poet and historian of the 16th century.\n\nAnne Dowriche was the daughter of Sir Richard Edgecombe and Elizabeth Tregian Edgecombe, who were from a prominent family in Cornwall. In 1580, she married a Puritan minister from Devon, with whom she had several children.\n\nDowriche wrote \"The French Historie\" about the French Wars of Religion, \"a 2,400 line poem, a long and inherently gory narrative epic about the long-winded French Wars of Religion during the C16\", in which she speaks out against tyranny and justifies the Protestant Reformation. She described several tyrants who were slain by subjects and gave an account of the gruesome death of Charles IX of France, during whose reign the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre had taken place. After this, she addressed Elizabeth I of England, calling upon her to protect and lead her Protestant subjects.\n\nDowriche also wrote \"Verses Written by a Gentlewoman, upon the Jailor's Conversion\". She is also credited for writing other poetry that has not survived.\n\nAnne Edgecombe was born into the English gentry. The Edgecombe family owned land and held a degree of economic and political power. The Edgecombes were ardent followers of the Protestant religion, which made them part of a minority in England and Europe as a whole. They were connected to a network of Protestants who used available literary talent, wealth, and power to promote Protestant causes. Anne was well educated as a girl, which is one indicator of her privileged social class. Some of Anne’s writing suggests that she may have been able to read Latin, which would be further evidence of the extent of her education.\n\nSome members of the Edgecombe family supported controversial Protestant activists. For instance, Anne’s brother Richard supported the Calvinist minister Melanchthon Jewell. Jewell preached illegally and was repeatedly imprisoned for his religious and political convictions. Despite this type of religious oppression, the Protestant faith was a cornerstone in Dowriche’s life and she was devoted to Protestant causes. Though she was limited by her gender at a time when women could not own property, Dowriche used her talents as a writer to promote her views.\n\nThe writer Anne Locke was a fellow Protestant reformer who was connected to Dowriche through intermarried family members. Like Dowriche, Anne Locke was a female poet who also wrote in support of the Protestant faith. Some scholars have noted similarities between Locke’s poem entitled “The Necessitie and Benefite of Affliction,” and Dowriche’s “Verses Written by a Gentlewoman, Upon the Jaylor’s Conversion”. Both poems advocate Protestantism and encourage the reader to repent and follow God. Some scholars speculate that, given the women’s geographic and ideological proximity, Dowriche and Locke may have directly impacted one another’s writing.\n\nIn 1580 Anne Edgecombe married Rev. Hugh Dowrich, rector of Honiton in Devon, the second son of Thomas Dowrish (d.1590) of Dowrish in the parish of Sandford, near Crediton, Devon. A small painted heraldic escutcheon survives on wood panelling at Dowrich displaying the arms of Dowrich (\"Argent, a bend cotised sable a bordure engrailed of the last\") impaling Edgcumbe (\"Gules, on a bend ermine cottised or three boar's heads couped argent\").\n\nThe ancient gentry family of Dowrish had become established at Dowrish before the reign of King John (1199–1216), when they built the keep or gatehouse, which survives there today. Anne and Hugh were united by their religious convictions, as both were ardent Protestants at a time when Europe was predominantly Catholic. Anne and Hugh had 6 children, Elkana, Walter, Mary (born 1587), Elizabeth, Anne (born 1589), and Hugh (born 1594).\n\nA Protestant, Dowriche supported Queen Elizabeth I, who faced death threats because she led a Protestant regime. Controversially, Dowriche was a proponent of eradicating the Catholic faith, arguing that Protestantism was the rightful path to God. Dowriche was linked to other Protestants who also held the radical belief that Catholicism should be abolished.\n\nDowriche’s writings focus on the Protestant faith and what she viewed as the rightful path to God. In her poem \"The French Historie\", Dowriche wrote about the plight of French Protestants, a religious group which was persecuted during the 16th century.\n\nDowriche published her 2,400-line poem \"The French Historie\" in 1589. The poem is a fictionalized retelling of the French Wars of Religion, a bloody conflict primarily occurring between Catholics and Huguenots from 1562 to 1598. Huguenots were French Protestants who harshly criticized the Catholic Church. They were widely persecuted in France, which led to a mass exodus of Huguenots to other countries. Dowriche recalls the persecution of Huguenots with tales of Huguenot martyrs. By poetically describing the Huguenots’ resistance in the face of Catholic persecution, Dowriche endeavored to inspire English Protestants to rebel against Catholicism.\n\n\"The French Historie\" opens with a fictional exchange between an Englishman and a Huguenot refugee from France. Their exchange acts as a frame for the narrative of the poem, a common device in Elizabethan writing. The plight of the Huguenots in \"The French Historie\" echoes the stories of suffering and redemption of the Israelites in the Old Testament. Dowriche’s allusions to both contemporary and biblical texts are evidence that she was well read, an unusual trait for the majority of English women at this time.\n\n\"The French Historie\" chronicles three pivotal events in the French Wars of Religion, beginning with an uprising against Huguenots in Paris. The poem then moves to the execution of Anne du Bourg, a counselor in the Parliament of Paris who opposed using capital punishment for crimes of heresy. The third major event of the poem is a retelling of the bloody St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre, an attack against Huguenots which began in Paris in 1572 and spread throughout France. Dowriche imagines the queen of France, the devoutly Catholic Catherine de Medici, fiercely proposing the infamous St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre. While St. Bartholomew’s Massacre was a real series of events, Dowriche invented the detail that Catherine de Medici proposed the killings. Though Catherine de Medici is a villainous character in \"The French Historie\", Dowriche also imbues her and other female characters with capabilities which were traditionally ascribed only to men. Dowriche’s imagining of de Medici’s power, will, and ruthlessness subverts traditional representations of women as meek and submissive.\n\nIn \"The French Historie\", Dowriche characterizes the targeted murders of Huguenots as the work of Satan. Satan appears in the text to influence Catherine de Medici and others to commit atrocities. Dowriche sympathetically portrays Huguenot scholars and preachers who were martyred for their religious beliefs. Ultimately, the French narrator calls on Queen Elizabeth to defend Protestants in England.\n\nFor historical information, Dowriche consulted Thomas Tymme’s \"The Three Partes of Commentaries, Containing the Whole and Perfect Discourse of the Civill Warres of Fraunce\". Tymme’s work is a translation of an earlier historical account written by Pierre de La Place]], who was killed during the St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre. Numerous scholars argue that Dowriche’s \"The French Historie\" may have inspired Christopher Marlowe’s \"The Jew of Malta\". \"The Jew of Malta\", in turn, influenced William Shakespeare’s \"The Merchant of Venice\".\n\nAnne Dowriche published her poem \"Verses Written by a Gentlewoman, Upon a Jaylor’s Conversion\" in her husband Hugh’s 1596 work, \"The Jaylor’s Conversion\". \"The Jaylor’s Conversion\" is a sermon describing Acts 16:30, in which the jailer of Paul and Silas experiences a conversion. Hugh argued that this sermon, which he delivered 16 years before it was published, was relevant once more due to what he saw as a time of spiritual regression. Anne’s poem \"Verses Written by a Gentlewoman, Upon the Jaylor’s Conversion\" occurs in the prefatory material of Hugh’s sermon and follows a ballad meter. In her poem she criticizes magistrates who mask the truth as “sedition and conspiracy.” Both Anne and Hugh praise believers who are willing to repent and sacrifice for God. They also emphasize willingness to suffer for one’s faith through imprisonment and are strongly anti-Catholic. In this respect, their writings are in keeping with the Puritan faction of the church, which also focused on resisting Catholicism. \"The Jaylor’s Conversion\" urges readers to completely submit to the Bible’s authority and admonishes what the Dowriche’s view as rampant spiritual lethargy. \"The Jaylor’s Conversion\" would have found a receptive audience among the network of Protestant activists and believers connected to Anne Dowriche.\n\n"}
{"id": "37229379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37229379", "title": "Anserated", "text": "Anserated\n\nAnserated refers to a condition where extremities of a creature end in the head of an eagle, lion etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "89732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89732", "title": "Antikythera mechanism", "text": "Antikythera mechanism\n\nThe Antikythera mechanism (, ) is an ancient Greek analogue computer and orrery used to predict astronomical positions and eclipses for calendar and astrological purposes decades in advance. It could also be used to track the four-year cycle of athletic games which was similar to an Olympiad, the cycle of the ancient Olympic Games.\n\nThe artefact was retrieved from the sea in 1901, and identified as containing a gear wheel on 17 May 1902 by archaeologist Valerios Stais, among wreckage retrieved from a wreck off the coast of the Greek island Antikythera. The instrument is believed to have been designed and constructed by Greek scientists and has been variously dated to about 87 BC, or between 150 and 100 BC, or to 205 BC, or to within a generation before the shipwreck, which has been dated to approximately 70-60 BC.\n\nThe device, housed in the remains of a wooden box, was found as one lump, later separated into three main fragments which are now divided into 82 separate fragments after conservation works. Four of these fragments contain gears, while inscriptions are found on many others. The largest gear is approximately in diameter and originally had 223 teeth.\n\nIt is a complex clockwork mechanism composed of at least 30 meshing bronze gears. A team led by Mike Edmunds and Tony Freeth at Cardiff University used modern computer x-ray tomography and high resolution surface scanning to image inside fragments of the crust-encased mechanism and read the faintest inscriptions that once covered the outer casing of the machine.\n\nDetailed imaging of the mechanism suggests that it had 37 gear wheels enabling it to follow the movements of the moon and the sun through the zodiac, to predict eclipses and even to model the irregular orbit of the moon, where the moon’s velocity is higher in its perigee than in its apogee. This motion was studied in the 2nd century BC by astronomer Hipparchus of Rhodes, and it is speculated that he may have been consulted in the machine's construction.\n\nThe knowledge of this technology was lost at some point in antiquity, and technological works approaching its complexity and workmanship did not appear again until the development of mechanical astronomical clocks in Europe in the fourteenth century. All known fragments of the Antikythera mechanism are kept at the National Archaeological Museum in Athens, along with a number of artistic reconstructions/replicas of how the mechanism may have looked and worked.\n\nThe Antikythera mechanism was retrieved from of water in the Antikythera shipwreck off Point Glyphadia on the Greek island of Antikythera in 1901, most probably in July of that year. The wreck had been found in April 1900 by a group of Greek sponge divers who retrieved numerous large artefacts, including bronze and marble statues, pottery, unique glassware, jewellery, coins, and the mechanism. All were transferred to the National Museum of Archaeology in Athens for storage and analysis. The mechanism was merely a lump of corroded bronze and wood at the time and went unnoticed for two years, while museum staff worked on piecing together more obvious statues.\n\nOn 17 May 1902, archaeologist Valerios Stais found that one of the pieces of rock had a gear wheel embedded in it. He initially believed that it was an astronomical clock, but most scholars considered the device to be prochronistic, too complex to have been constructed during the same period as the other pieces that had been discovered. Investigations into the object were dropped until British science historian and Yale University professor Derek J. de Solla Price became interested in it in 1951. In 1971, Price and Greek nuclear physicist Charalampos Karakalos made X-ray and gamma-ray images of the 82 fragments. Price published an extensive 70-page paper on their findings in 1974.\n\nIt is not known how the mechanism came to be on the cargo ship, but it has been suggested that it was being taken from Rhodes to Rome, together with other looted treasure, to support a triumphal parade being staged by Julius Caesar.\n\nTwo other searches for items at the Antikythera wreck site in 2012 and 2015 have yielded a number of fascinating art objects and a second ship which may or may not be connected with the treasure ship on which the Mechanism was found. Also found was a bronze disk, with the image of a bull embellished on it. The disk has four \"ears\" which have holes in them, and it was thought by some that it may have been part of the Antikythera Mechanism itself, as a \"cog wheel\". However, there appears to be little evidence that it was part of the Mechanism; it is more likely that the disk was a bronze decoration on a piece of furniture.\n\nThe Antikythera mechanism is generally referred to as the first known analogue computer. The quality and complexity of the mechanism's manufacture suggests that it has undiscovered predecessors made during the Hellenistic period. Its construction relied on theories of astronomy and mathematics developed by Greek astronomers during the second century BC, and it is estimated to have been built in the late second century BC or the early first century BC.\n\nIn 1974, Derek de Solla Price concluded from gear settings and inscriptions on the mechanism's faces that it was made about 87 BC and lost only a few years later. Jacques Cousteau and associates visited the wreck in 1976 and recovered coins dated between 76 and 67 BC. The mechanism's advanced state of corrosion has made it impossible to perform an accurate compositional analysis, but it is believed that the device was made of a low-tin bronze alloy (of approximately 95% copper, 5% tin). Its instructions were composed in Koine Greek.\n\nIn 2008, continued research by the Antikythera Mechanism Research Project suggested that the concept for the mechanism may have originated in the colonies of Corinth, since they identified the calendar on the Metonic Spiral as coming from Corinth or one of its colonies in Northwest Greece or Sicily. Syracuse was a colony of Corinth and the home of Archimedes, and the Antikythera Mechanism Research project argued in 2008 that it might imply a connection with the school of Archimedes. However, it has recently been demonstrated that the calendar on the Metonic Spiral is indeed of the Corinthian type but cannot be that of Syracuse. Another theory suggests that coins found by Jacques Cousteau at the wreck site in the 1970s date to the time of the device's construction, and posits that its origin may have been from the ancient Greek city of Pergamon, home of the Library of Pergamum. With its many scrolls of art and science, it was second in importance only to the Library of Alexandria during the Hellenistic period.\n\nThe ship carrying the device also contained vases in the Rhodian style, leading to a hypothesis that it was constructed at an academy founded by Stoic philosopher Posidonius on that Greek island. Rhodes was a busy trading port in antiquity and a centre of astronomy and mechanical engineering, home to astronomer Hipparchus who was active from about 140 BC to 120 BC. The mechanism uses Hipparchus's theory for the motion of the moon, which suggests the possibility that he may have designed it or at least worked on it. In addition, it has recently been argued that the astronomical events on the Parapegma of the Antikythera Mechanism work best for latitudes in the range of 33.3–37.0 degrees north; the island of Rhodes is located between the latitudes of 35.85 and 36.50 degrees north.\n\nIn 2014, a study by Carman and Evans argued for a new dating of approximately 200 BC based on identifying the start-up date on the Saros Dial as the astronomical lunar month that began shortly after the new moon of 28 April 205 BC. Moreover, according to Carman and Evans, the Babylonian arithmetic style of prediction fits much better with the device's predictive models than the traditional Greek trigonometric style. A study by Paul Iversen published in 2017 reasons that the prototype for the device was indeed from Rhodes, but that this particular model was modified for a client from Epirus in northwestern Greece, and was probably constructed within a generation of the shipwreck.\n\nFurther dives were undertaken in 2014, with plans to continue in 2015, in the hope of discovering more of the mechanism.\n\nThe original mechanism apparently came out of the Mediterranean as a single encrusted piece. Soon afterward it fractured into three major pieces. Other small pieces have broken off in the interim from cleaning and handling, and still others were found on the sea floor by the Cousteau expedition. Other fragments may still be in storage, undiscovered since their initial recovery; Fragment F came to light in that way in 2005. Of the 82 known fragments, seven are mechanically significant and contain the majority of the mechanism and inscriptions. There are also 16 smaller parts that contain fractional and incomplete inscriptions.\n\nMany of the smaller fragments that have been found contain nothing of apparent value; however, a few have some inscriptions on them. Fragment 19 contains significant back door inscriptions including one reading \"... 76 years ...\" which refers to the Callippic cycle. Other inscriptions seem to describe the function of the back dials. In addition to this important minor fragment, 15 further minor fragments have remnants of inscriptions on them.\n\nInformation on the specific data gleaned from the ruins by the latest inquiries is detailed in the supplement to Freeth's 2006 \"Nature\" article.\n\nOn the front face of the mechanism there is a fixed ring dial representing the ecliptic, the twelve zodiacal signs marked off with equal 30 degree sectors. This matched with the Babylonian custom of assigning one twelfth of the ecliptic to each zodiac sign equally, even though the constellation boundaries were variable. Outside of that dial is another ring which is rotatable, marked off with the months and days of the Sothic Egyptian calendar, twelve months of 30 days plus five intercalary days. The months are marked with the Egyptian names for the months transcribed into the Greek alphabet. The first task, then, is to rotate the Egyptian calendar ring to match the current zodiac points. The Egyptian calendar ignored leap days, so it advanced through a full zodiac sign in about 120 years.\n\nThe mechanism was operated by turning a small hand crank (now lost) which was linked via a crown gear to the largest gear, the four-spoked gear visible on the front of fragment A, the gear named b1. This moved the date pointer on the front dial, which would be set to the correct Egyptian calendar day. The year is not selectable, so it is necessary to know the year currently set, or by looking up the cycles indicated by the various calendar cycle indicators on the back in the Babylonian ephemeris tables for the day of the year currently set, since most of the calendar cycles are not synchronous with the year. The crank moves the date pointer about 78 days per full rotation, so hitting a particular day on the dial would be easily possible if the mechanism were in good working condition. The action of turning the hand crank would also cause all interlocked gears within the mechanism to rotate, resulting in the simultaneous calculation of the position of the Sun and Moon, the moon phase, eclipse, and calendar cycles, and perhaps the locations of planets.\n\nThe operator also had to be aware of the position of the spiral dial pointers on the two large dials on the back. The pointer had a \"follower\" that tracked the spiral incisions in the metal as the dials incorporated four and five full rotations of the pointers. When a pointer reached the terminal month location at either end of the spiral, the pointer's follower had to be manually moved to the other end of the spiral before proceeding further.\n\nThe front dial has two concentric circular scales that represent the path of the ecliptic through the heavens. The outer ring is marked off with the days of the 365-day Egyptian civil calendar. On the inner ring, a second dial marks the Greek signs of the Zodiac, with division into degrees. The mechanism predates the Julian calendar reform, but the Sothic and Callippic cycles had already pointed to a -day solar year, as seen in Ptolemy III's abortive calendrical reform of 238BC. The dials are not believed to reflect his proposed leap day (Epag. 6), but the outer calendar dial may be moved against the inner dial to compensate for the effect of the extra quarter day in the solar year by turning the scale backward one day every four years.\n\nThe position of the sun on the ecliptic corresponds to the current date in the year. The orbits of the moon and the five planets known to the Greeks are close enough to the ecliptic to make it a convenient reference for defining their positions as well.\n\nThe following three Egyptian months are inscribed in Greek letters on the surviving pieces of the outer ring:\n\nThe other months have been reconstructed, although some reconstructions of the mechanism omit the 5 days of the Egyptian intercalary month. The Zodiac dial contains Greek inscriptions of the members of the zodiac, which is believed to be adapted to the tropical month version rather than the sidereal:\n\n\nAlso on the zodiac dial are a number of single characters at specific points (see reconstruction here:). They are keyed to a \"parapegma\", a precursor of the modern day almanac inscribed on the front face above and beneath the dials. They mark the locations of longitudes on the ecliptic for specific stars. The \"parapegma\" above the dials reads (square brackets indicate inferred text):\n\nThe \"parapegma\" beneath the dials reads:\n\nAt least two pointers indicated positions of bodies upon the ecliptic. A lunar pointer indicated the position of the moon, and a mean sun pointer also was shown, perhaps doubling as the current date pointer. The moon position was not a simple mean moon indicator that would indicate movement uniformly around a circular orbit; it approximated the acceleration and deceleration of the moon's elliptical orbit, through the earliest extant use of epicyclic gearing.\n\nIt also tracked the precession of the elliptical orbit around the ecliptic in an 8.88 year cycle. The mean sun position is, by definition, the current date. It is speculated that since such pains were taken to get the position of the moon correct, then there also was likely to have been a \"true sun\" pointer in addition to the mean sun pointer likewise, to track the elliptical anomaly of the sun (the orbit of Earth around the sun), but there is no evidence of it among the ruins of the mechanism found to date. Similarly, neither is there the evidence of planetary orbit pointers for the five planets known to the Greeks among the ruins. See Proposed planet indication gearing schemes below.\n\nFinally, mechanical engineer Michael Wright has demonstrated that there was a mechanism to supply the lunar phase in addition to the position. The indicator was a small ball embedded in the lunar pointer, half-white and half-black, which rotated to show the phase (new, first quarter, half, third quarter, full, and back) graphically. The data to support this function is available given the sun and moon positions as angular rotations; essentially, it is the angle between the two, translated into the rotation of the ball. It requires a differential gear, a gearing arrangement that sums or differences two angular inputs.\n\nIn July 2008, scientists reported new findings in the journal \"Nature\" showing that the mechanism not only tracked the Metonic calendar and predicted solar eclipses, but also calculated the timing of several panhellenic athletic games, including the Ancient Olympic Games. Inscriptions on the instrument closely match the names of the months that are used on calendars from Epirus in northwestern Greece and with the island of Corfu, which in antiquity was known as Corcyra.\n\nOn the back of the mechanism, there are five dials: the two large displays, the Metonic and the Saros, and three smaller indicators, the so-called Olympiad Dial, which has recently been renamed the Games dial as it did not track Olympiad years (the four-year cycle it tracks most closely is the Halieiad), the Callippic, and the Exeligmos.\n\nThe Metonic Dial is the main upper dial on the rear of the mechanism. The Metonic cycle, defined in several physical units, is 235 synodic months, which is very close (to within less than 13 one-millionths) to 19 tropical years. It is therefore a convenient interval over which to convert between lunar and solar calendars. The Metonic dial covers 235 months in 5 rotations of the dial, following a spiral track with a follower on the pointer that keeps track of the layer of the spiral. The pointer points to the synodic month, counted from new moon to new moon, and the cell contains the Corinthian month names.\n\n\nThus, setting the correct solar time (in days) on the front panel indicates the current lunar month on the back panel, with resolution to within a week or so.\n\nBased on the fact that the calendar month names are consistent with all the evidence of the Epirote calendar and that the Games dial mentions the very minor Naa games of Dodona (in Epirus), it has recently been argued that the calendar on the Antikythera Mechanism is likely to be the Epirote calendar, and that this calendar was probably adopted from a Corinthian colony in Epirus, possibly Ambracia. It has also been argued that the first month of the calendar, Phoinikaios, was ideally the month in which the autumn equinox fell, and that the start-up date of the calendar began shortly after the astronomical new moon of 23 August 205 BC.\n\nThe Callippic dial is the left secondary upper dial, which follows a 76-year cycle. The Callippic cycle is four Metonic cycles, and so this dial indicates the current Metonic cycle in the overall Callippic cycle.\n\nThe Games dial is the right secondary upper dial; it is the only pointer on the instrument that travels in a counter-clockwise direction as time advances. The dial is divided into four sectors, each of which is inscribed with a year indicator and the name of two Panhellenic Games: the \"crown\" games of Isthmia, Olympia, Nemea, and Pythia; and two lesser games: Naa (held at Dodona), and the sixth and final set of Games recently deciphered as the Halieia of Rhodes. The inscriptions on each one of the four divisions are:\n\nThe Saros dial is the main lower spiral dial on the rear of the mechanism. The Saros cycle is 18 years and days long (6585.333… days), which is very close to 223 synodic months (6585.3211 days). It is defined as the cycle of repetition of the positions required to cause solar and lunar eclipses, and therefore, it could be used to predict them — not only the month, but the day and time of day. Note that the cycle is approximately 8 hours longer than an integer number of days. Translated into global spin, that means an eclipse occurs not only eight hours later, but one-third of a rotation farther to the west. Glyphs in 51 of the 223 synodic month cells of the dial specify the occurrence of 38 lunar and 27 solar eclipses. Some of the abbreviations in the glyphs read:\n\nThe glyphs show whether the designated eclipse is solar or lunar, and give the day of the month and hour; obviously, solar eclipses may not be visible at any given point, and lunar eclipses are visible only if the moon is above the horizon at the appointed hour. In addition, the inner lines at the cardinal points of the Saros dial indicate the start of a new full moon cycle. Based on the distribution of the times of the eclipses, it has recently been argued that the start-up date of the Saros dial was shortly after the astronomical new moon of 28 April 205 BC.\n\nThe Exeligmos Dial is the secondary lower dial on the rear of the mechanism. The Exeligmos cycle is a 54-year triple Saros cycle that is 19,756 days long. Since the length of the Saros cycle is to a third of a day (eight hours), so a full Exeligmos cycle returns counting to integer days, hence the inscriptions. The labels on its three divisions are:\n\nThus the dial pointer indicates how many hours must be added to the glyph times of the Saros dial in order to calculate the exact eclipse times.\n\nThe mechanism has a wooden casing with a front and a back door, both containing inscriptions. The back door appears to be the \"instruction manual\". On one of its fragments is written \"76 years, 19 years\" representing the Callippic and Metonic cycles. Also written is \"223\" for the Saros cycle. On another one of its fragments, it is written \"on the spiral subdivisions 235\" referring to the Metonic dial.\n\nThe mechanism is remarkable for the level of miniaturisation and the complexity of its parts, which is comparable to that of fourteenth-century astronomical clocks. It has at least 30 gears, although mechanism expert Michael Wright has suggested that the Greeks of this period were capable of implementing a system with many more gears.\n\nThere is much debate as to whether the mechanism had indicators for all five of the planets known to the ancient Greeks. No gearing for such a planetary display survives and all gears are accounted for—with the exception of one 63-toothed gear (r1) otherwise unaccounted for in fragment D.\n\nThe purpose of the front face was to position astronomical bodies with respect to the celestial sphere along the ecliptic, in reference to the observer's position on the Earth. That is irrelevant to the question of whether that position was computed using a heliocentric or geocentric view of the solar system; either computational method should, and does, result in the same position (ignoring ellipticity), within the error factors of the mechanism.\n\nPtolemy's epicyclic solar system (still 300 years in the future from the apparent date of the mechanism), carried forward with more epicycles, was more accurate predicting the positions of planets than the view of Copernicus, until Kepler introduced the possibility that orbits are ellipses.\n\nEvans et al. suggest that to display the mean positions of the five classical planets would require only 17 further gears that could be positioned in front of the large driving gear and indicated using individual circular dials on the face.\n\nTony Freeth and Alexander Jones have modelled and published details of a version using several gear trains mechanically-similar to the lunar anomaly system allowing for indication of the positions of the planets as well as synthesis of the sun anomaly. Their system, they claim, is more authentic than Wright's model as it uses the known skill sets of the Greeks of that period and does not add excessive complexity or internal stresses to the machine.\n\nThe gear teeth were in the form of equilateral triangles with an average circular pitch of 1.6 mm, an average wheel thickness of 1.4 mm and an average air gap between gears of 1.2 mm. The teeth probably were created from a blank bronze round using hand tools; this is evident because not all of them are even. Due to advances in imaging and X-ray technology it is now possible to know the precise number of teeth and size of the gears within the located fragments. Thus the basic operation of the device is no longer a mystery and has been replicated accurately. The major unknown remains the question of the presence and nature of any planet indicators.\n\nA table of the gears, their teeth, and the expected and computed rotations of various important gears follows. The gear functions come from Freeth et al. (2008) and those for the lower half of the table from Freeth and Jones 2012. The computed values start with 1 year/revolution for the b1 gear, and the remainder are computed directly from gear teeth ratios. The gears marked with an asterisk (*) are missing, or have predecessors missing, from the known mechanism; these gears have been calculated with reasonable gear teeth counts.\n\"Table notes:\"\nThere are several gear ratios for each planet that result in close matches to the correct values for synodic periods of the planets and the sun. The ones chosen above seem to provide good accuracy with reasonable tooth counts, but the specific gears that may have been used are, and probably will remain, unknown.\n\nIt is very probable that there were planetary dials, as the complicated motions and periodicities of all planets are mentioned in the manual of the mechanism. The exact position and mechanisms for the gears of the planets is not known. There is no coaxial system but only for the moon. Fragment D that is an epicycloidal system is considered as a planetary gear for Jupiter (Moussas, 2011, 2012, 2014) or a gear for the motion of the Sun (University of Thessaloniki group).\nThe Sun gear is operated from the hand-operated crank (connected to gear a1, driving the large four-spoked mean sun gear, b1) and in turn drives the rest of the gear sets. The sun gear is b1/b2 and b2 has 64 teeth. It directly drives the date/mean sun pointer (there may have been a second, \"true sun\" pointer that displayed the sun's elliptical anomaly; it is discussed below in the Freeth reconstruction). In this discussion, reference is to modelled rotational period of various pointers and indicators; they all assume the input rotation of the b1 gear of 360 degrees, corresponding with one tropical year, and are computed solely on the basis of the gear ratios of the gears named.\n\nThe Moon train starts with gear b1 and proceeds through c1, c2, d1, d2, e2, e5, k1, k2, e6, e1, and b3 to the moon pointer on the front face. The gears k1 and k2 form an epicyclic gear system; they are an identical pair of gears that don't mesh, but rather, they operate face-to-face, with a short pin on k1 inserted into a slot in k2. The two gears have different centres of rotation, so the pin must move back and forth in the slot. That increases and decreases the radius at which k2 is driven, also necessarily varying its angular velocity (presuming the velocity of k1 is even) faster in some parts of the rotation than others. Over an entire revolution the average velocities are the same, but the fast-slow variation models the effects of the elliptical orbit of the moon, in consequence of Kepler's second and third laws. The modelled rotational period of the moon pointer (averaged over a year) is 27.321 days, compared to the modern length of a lunar sidereal month of 27.321661 days. As mentioned, the pin/slot driving of the k1/k2 gears varies the displacement over a year's time, and the mounting of those two gears on the e3 gear supplies a precessional advancement to the ellipticity modelling with a period of 8.8826 years, compared with the current value of precession period of the moon of 8.85 years.\n\nThe system also models the phases of the moon. The moon pointer holds a shaft along its length, on which is mounted a small gear named r, which meshes to the sun pointer at B0 (the connection between B0 and the rest of B is not visible in the original mechanism, so whether b0 is the current date/mean sun pointer or a hypothetical true sun pointer is not known). The gear rides around the dial with the moon, but is also geared to the sun — the effect is to perform a differential gear operation, so the gear turns at the synodic month period, measuring in effect, the angle of the difference between the sun and moon pointers. The gear drives a small ball that appears through an opening in the moon pointer's face, painted longitudinally half white and half black, displaying the phases pictorially. It turns with a modelled rotational period of 29.53 days; the modern value for the synodic month is 29.530589 days.\n\nThe Metonic train is driven by the drive train b1, b2, l1, l2, m1, m2, and n1, which is connected to the pointer. The modelled rotational period of the pointer is the length of the 6939.5 days (over the whole five-rotation spiral), while the modern value for the Metonic cycle is 6939.69 days.\n\nThe Olympiad train is driven by b1, b2, l1, l2, m1, m2, n1, n2, and o1, which mounts the pointer. It has a computed modelled rotational period of exactly 4 years, as expected. Incidentally, it is the only pointer on the mechanism that rotates counter-clockwise; all of the others rotate clockwise.\n\nThe Callippic train is driven by b1, b2, l1, l2, m1, m2, n1, n3, p1, p2, and q1, which mounts the pointer. It has a computed modelled rotational period of 27758 days, while the modern value is 27758.8 days.\n\nThe Saros train is driven by b1, b2, l1, l2, m1, m3, e3, e4, f1, f2, and g1, which mounts the pointer. The modelled rotational period of the Saros pointer is 1646.3 days (in four rotations along the spiral pointer track); the modern value is 1646.33 days.\n\nThe Exeligmos train is driven by b1, b2, l1, l2, m1, m3, e3, e4, f1, f2, g1, g2, h1, h2, and i1, which mounts the pointer. The modelled rotational period of the Exeligmos pointer is 19,756 days; the modern value is 19755.96 days.\n\nApparently, gears m3, n1-3, p1-2, and q1 did not survive in the wreckage. The functions of the pointers were deduced from the remains of the dials on the back face, and reasonable, appropriate gearage to fulfill the functions was proposed, and is generally accepted.\n\nBecause of the large space between the mean sun gear and the front of the case and the size of and mechanical features on the mean sun gear it is very likely that the mechanism contained further gearing that either has been lost in or subsequent to the shipwreck or was removed before being loaded onto the ship. This lack of evidence and nature of the front part of the mechanism has led to numerous attempts to emulate what the Greeks of the period would have done and, of course, because of the lack of evidence many solutions have been put forward.\n\nMichael Wright was the first person to design and build a model with not only the known mechanism, but also, with his emulation of a potential planetarium system. He suggested that along with the lunar anomaly, adjustments would have been made for the deeper, more basic solar anomaly (known as the \"first anomaly\"). He included pointers for this \"true sun\", Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn, in addition to the known \"mean sun\" (current time) and lunar pointers.\n\nEvans, Carman, and Thorndike published a solution with significant differences from Wright's. Their proposal centred on what they observed as irregular spacing of the inscriptions on the front dial face, which to them seemed to indicate an off-centre sun indicator arrangement; this would simplify the mechanism by removing the need to simulate the solar anomaly. They also suggested that rather than accurate planetary indication (rendered impossible by the offset inscriptions) there would be simple dials for each individual planet showing information such as key events in the cycle of planet, initial and final appearances in the night sky, and apparent direction changes. This system would lead to a much simplified gear system, with much reduced forces and complexity, as compared to Wright's model.\n\nTheir proposal used simple meshed gear trains and accounted for the previously unexplained 63 toothed gear in fragment D. They proposed two face plate layouts, one with evenly spaced dials, and another with a gap in the top of the face to account for criticism regarding their not using the apparent fixtures on the b1 gear. They proposed that rather than bearings and pillars for gears and axles, they simply held weather and seasonal icons to be displayed through a window.\n\nIn a paper published in 2012 Carman, Thorndike, and Evans also proposed a system of epicyclic gearing with pin and slot followers.\n\nFreeth and Jones published their proposal in 2012 after extensive research and work. They came up with a compact and feasible solution to the question of planetary indication. They also propose indicating the solar anomaly (that is, the sun's apparent position in the zodiac dial) on a separate pointer from the date pointer, which indicates the mean position of the sun, as well as the date on the month dial. If the two dials are synchronised correctly, their front panel display is essentially the same as Wright's. Unlike Wright's model however, this model has not been built physically, and is only a 3-D computer model.\n\nThe system to synthesise the solar anomaly is very similar to that used in Wright's proposal. Three gears, one fixed in the centre of the b1 gear and attached to the sun spindle, the second fixed on one of the spokes (in their proposal the one on the bottom left) acting as an idle gear, and the final positioned next to that one, the final gear is fitted with an offset pin and, over said pin, an arm with a slot that in turn, is attached to the sun spindle, inducing anomaly as the mean sun wheel turns.\n\nThe inferior planet mechanism includes the sun (treated as a planet in this context), Mercury, and Venus. For each of the three systems there is an epicyclic gear whose axis is mounted on b1, thus the basic frequency is the Earth year (as it is, in truth, for epicyclic motion in the sun and all the planets—excepting only the moon). Each meshes with a gear grounded to the mechanism frame. Each has a pin mounted, potentially on an extension of one side of the gear that enlarges the gear, but doesn't interfere with the teeth; in some cases the needed distance between the gear's centre and the pin is farther than the radius of the gear itself. A bar with a slot along its length extends from the pin toward the appropriate coaxial tube, at whose other end is the object pointer, out in front of the front dials. The bars could have been full gears, although there is no need for the waste of metal, since the only working part is the slot. Also, using the bars avoids interference between the three mechanisms, each of which are set on one of the four spokes of b1. Thus there is one new grounded gear (one was identified in the wreckage, and the second is shared by two of the planets), one gear used to reverse the direction of the sun anomaly, three epicyclic gears and three bars/coaxial tubes/pointers, which would qualify as another gear each. Five gears and three slotted bars in all.\n\nThe superior planet systems—Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn—all follow the same general principle of the lunar anomaly mechanism. Similar to the inferior systems, each has a gear whose centre pivot is on an extension of b1, and which meshes with a grounded gear. It presents a pin and a centre pivot for the epicyclic gear which has a slot for the pin, and which meshes with a gear fixed to a coaxial tube and thence to the pointer. Each of the three mechanisms can fit within a quadrant of the b1 extension, and they are thus all on a single plane parallel with the front dial plate. Each one uses a ground gear, a driving gear, a driven gear, and a gear/coaxial tube/pointer, thus, twelve gears additional in all.\n\nIn total, there are eight coaxial spindles of various nested sizes to transfer the rotations in the mechanism to the eight pointers. So in all, there are 30 original gears, 7 gears added to complete calendar functionality, 17 gears and three slotted bars to support the six new pointers, for a grand total of 54 gears, three bars, and eight pointers in Freeth and Jones' design.\n\nOn the visual representation Freeth supplies in the paper, the pointers on the front zodiac dial have small, round identifying stones. He mentions a quote from an ancient papyrus:\n\n...a voice comes to you speaking. Let the stars be set upon the board in accordance with [their] nature except for the Sun and Moon. And let the Sun be golden, the Moon silver, Kronos [Saturn] of obsidian, Ares [Mars] of reddish onyx, Aphrodite [Venus] lapis lazuli veined with gold, Hermes [Mercury] turquoise; let Zeus [Jupiter] be of (whitish?) stone, crystalline (?)...\n\nInvestigations by Freeth and Jones reveal that their simulated mechanism is not particularly accurate, the Mars pointer being up to 38° off at times. This is not due to inaccuracies in gearing ratios in the mechanism, but rather to inadequacies in the Greek theory. The accuracy could not have been improved until first Ptolemy put forth his Planetary Hypotheses in the second half of the second century AD and then the introduction of Kepler's Second Law in the early 17th century.\n\nIn short, the Antikythera Mechanism was a machine designed to predict celestial phenomena according to the sophisticated astronomical theories current in its day, the sole witness to a lost history of brilliant engineering, a conception of pure genius, one of the great wonders of the ancient world—but it didn’t really work very well!\n\nIn addition to theoretical accuracy, there is the matter of mechanical accuracy. Freeth and Jones note that the inevitable \"looseness\" in the mechanism due to the hand-built gears, with their triangular teeth and the frictions between gears, and in bearing surfaces, probably would have swamped the finer solar and lunar correction mechanisms built into it:\n\nThough the engineering was remarkable for its era, recent research indicates that its design conception exceeded the engineering precision of its manufacture by a wide margin—with considerable cumulative inaccuracies in the gear trains, which would have cancelled out many of the subtle anomalies built into its design.\n\nWhile the device itself may have struggled with inaccuracies due to the triangular teeth being hand made, the calculations used and the technology implemented to create the elliptical paths of the planets and retrograde motion of the moon and Mars by using a clockwork-type gear train with the addition of a pin-and-slot mechanism predated that of the first known clocks found in antiquity in Medieval Europe by more than 1000 years. Archimedes' development of the approximate value of pi and his theory of centres of gravity along with the steps he made towards developing the calculus all suggest that the Greeks had access to more than enough mathematical knowledge beyond that of just Babylonian algebra in order to be able to model the elliptical nature of planetary motion.\n\nOf special delight to physicists, the Moon mechanism uses a special train of bronze gears, two of them linked with a slightly offset axis, to indicate the position and phase of the moon. As is known today from Kepler's Laws of Planetary Motion, the moon travels at different speeds as it orbits the Earth, and this speed differential is modeled by the Antikythera Mechanism, even though the ancient Greeks were not aware of the actual elliptical shape of the orbit.\n\nCicero's \"De re publica\", a 1st-century BC philosophical dialogue, mentions two machines that some modern authors consider as some kind of planetarium or orrery, predicting the movements of the Sun, the Moon, and the five planets known at that time. They were both built by Archimedes and brought to Rome by the Roman general Marcus Claudius Marcellus after the death of Archimedes at the siege of Syracuse in 212 BC. Marcellus had great respect for Archimedes and one of these machines was the only item he kept from the siege (the second was offered to the temple of Virtus). The device was kept as a family heirloom, and Cicero has Philus (one of the participants in a conversation that Cicero imagined had taken place in a villa belonging to Scipio Aemilianus in the year 129 BC) saying that Gaius Sulpicius Gallus (consul with Marcellus's nephew in 166 BC, and credited by Pliny the Elder as the first Roman to have written a book explaining solar and lunar eclipses) gave both a \"learned explanation\" and a working demonstration of the device.\n\nPappus of Alexandria stated that Archimedes had written a now lost manuscript on the construction of these devices entitled \"On Sphere-Making\". The surviving texts from the Library of Alexandria describe many of his creations, some even containing simple drawings. One such device is his odometer, the exact model later used by the Romans to place their mile markers (described by Vitruvius, Heron of Alexandria and in the time of Emperor Commodus). The drawings in the text appeared functional, but attempts to build them as pictured had failed. When the gears pictured, which had square teeth, were replaced with gears of the type in the Antikythera mechanism, which were angled, the device was perfectly functional. Whether this is an example of a device created by Archimedes and described by texts lost in the burning of the Library of Alexandria, or if it is a device based on his discoveries, or if it has anything to do with him at all, is debatable.\n\nIf Cicero's account is correct, then this technology existed as early as the 3rd century BC. Archimedes' device is also mentioned by later Roman era writers such as Lactantius (\"Divinarum Institutionum Libri VII\"), Claudian (\"In sphaeram Archimedes\"), and Proclus (\"Commentary on the first book of Euclid's Elements of Geometry\") in the 4th and 5th centuries.\n\nCicero also said that another such device was built \"recently\" by his friend Posidonius, \"... each one of the revolutions of which brings about the same movement in the Sun and Moon and five wandering stars [planets] as is brought about each day and night in the heavens ...\"\n\nIt is unlikely that any one of these machines was the Antikythera mechanism found in the shipwreck since both the devices fabricated by Archimedes and mentioned by Cicero were located in Rome at least 30 years later than the estimated date of the shipwreck, and the third device was almost certainly in the hands of Posidonius by that date. The scientists who have reconstructed the Antikythera mechanism also agree that it was too sophisticated to have been a unique device.\n\nThis evidence that the Antikythera mechanism was not unique adds support to the idea that there was an ancient Greek tradition of complex mechanical technology that was later, at least in part, transmitted to the Byzantine and Islamic worlds, where mechanical devices which were complex, albeit simpler than the Antikythera mechanism, were built during the Middle Ages. Fragments of a geared calendar attached to a sundial, from the 5th or 6th century Byzantine Empire, have been found; the calendar may have been used to assist in telling time. In the Islamic world, Banū Mūsā's \"Kitab al-Hiyal\", or \"Book of Ingenious Devices\", was commissioned by the Caliph of Baghdad in the early 9th century AD. This text described over a hundred mechanical devices, some of which may date back to ancient Greek texts preserved in monasteries. A geared calendar similar to the Byzantine device was described by the scientist al-Biruni around 1000, and a surviving 13th-century astrolabe also contains a similar clockwork device. It is possible that this medieval technology may have been transmitted to Europe and contributed to the development of mechanical clocks there.\n\nAs of 2012, the Antikythera mechanism was now displayed as part of a temporary exhibition about the Antikythera Shipwreck, accompanied by reconstructions made by Ioannis Theofanidis, Derek de Solla Price, Michael Wright, the Thessaloniki University and Dionysios Kriaris. Other reconstructions are on display at the American Computer Museum in Bozeman, Montana, at the Children's Museum of Manhattan in New York, at Astronomisch-Physikalisches Kabinett in Kassel, Germany, and at the Musée des Arts et Métiers in Paris.\n\nThe National Geographic documentary series \"Naked Science\" had an episode dedicated to the Antikythera Mechanism entitled \"Star Clock BC\" that aired on 20 January 2011. A documentary, \"The World's First Computer\", was produced in 2012 by the Antikythera mechanism researcher and film-maker Tony Freeth. In 2012 BBC Four aired \"The Two-Thousand-Year-Old Computer\"; it was also aired on 3 April 2013 in the United States on NOVA, the PBS science series, under the name \"Ancient Computer\". It documents the discovery and 2005 investigation of the mechanism by the Antikythera Mechanism Research Project.\n\nA fictionalised version of the device was a central plot point in the film \"Stonehenge Apocalypse\" (2010), where it was used as the artefact that saved the world from impending doom. Erich von Däniken, in his 1968 book \"Chariots of the Gods?\", presented it as one of the many \"evidences\" of ancient alien astronauts visiting earth and leaving behind technology.\n\nA fully functioning Lego reconstruction of the Antikythera mechanism was built in 2010 by hobbyist Andy Carrol, and featured in a short film produced by Small Mammal in 2011.\n\nSeveral exhibitions have been staged worldwide, leading to the main \"Antikythera shipwreck\" exhibition at the National Archaeological Museum in Athens, Greece.\n\nOn 17 May 2017, Google marked the 115th anniversary of the discovery with a Doodle.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14387541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14387541", "title": "Arnold Ipolyi", "text": "Arnold Ipolyi\n\nArnold Ipolyi (family name originally Stummer) (20 October 1823 – 2 December 1886) was a Hungarian bishop and historian.\n\nIpolyi was born in Ipolykeszi, Hungary (currently \"Kosihy nad Ipľomin\", Slovakia). At the age of 13 he entered the ranks of the alumni of the Archdiocese of Esztergom, studied two years in the Emericianum at Pozsony and later at Nagyszombat, and finished at the Pázmáneum at Vienna, where he attended lectures on theology for four years. In 1844 he entered the seminary of Esztergom, took minor orders in 1845, and was ordained priest in 1847. From 1845 to 1847 he acted as tutor in the family of Baron Mednyánszky, was then curate at Komáromszentpéter (\"German: Komorn-Sankt-Peter\"), in 1848 preacher at Bratislava, in 1849 spent a short time as tutor in the family of Count Palffy, and became in this year parish priest of Zohor. Even before his ordination he concerned himself with historical and art-historical matters. In 1854 his \"Ungarische Mythologic\" came out, as the first-fruit of his work, in which he treats of the ancient religion of Hungary. Although the work won the prize offered by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the author afterwards withdrew it from the press, so that at the present time it is very rare. In 1860 Ipolyi became parish priest at Törökszentmiklós. Accompanied by Franz Kubinyi and Emerich Henszlmann, he made in 1862 a journey to Constantinople, where he discovered the remainder of the library of Matthias Corvinus. In 1863 he was made canon of Eger, and in 1869 director of the Central Ecclesiastical Seminary at Pest; in 1871 he became Bishop of Besztercebánya, and Bishop of Nagyvárad where he died on 2 December later that same year. Ipolyi was member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, as well as a member of different learned Societies at home and abroad. He was one of the founders and at first vice-president, then president of the Hungarian Historical Society. His literary activity extended into the provinces of history, art-history, archaeology, and Christian art. He enriched the Hungarian National Gallery with sixty valuable paintings. He bequeathed to Nagyvárad (today Oradea, Romania) in his will, for the purpose of founding a museum, his collections which had been brought together with a great expert knowledge of art.\n\n\nA collection of his lesser works has appeared in five volumes (Budapest, 1887).\n\n\n\n \"That entry was written by Antal Aldásy.\"\n"}
{"id": "29402308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29402308", "title": "Bead-rim pottery", "text": "Bead-rim pottery\n\nBead-rim pottery refers to the presence of a rounded molding on the lip of a jar, bowl, or dish, both to add strength and assist in handling .\n"}
{"id": "45294237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45294237", "title": "Bruce Mazlish", "text": "Bruce Mazlish\n\nBruce Mazlish (September 15, 1923 – November 27, 2016) was an American historian who was a professor in the Department of History at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. His work focuses on historiography and philosophy of history, history of science and technology, artificial intelligence, history of the social sciences, the two cultures and bridging the humanities and sciences (natural and social), revolution, psychohistory, history of globalization and the history of global citizenship. He has worked to build the latter two into a public intellectual movement, through initiatives such as the New Global History conferences.\n\nMazlish was hired as an instructor at MIT in 1950. He became full Professor in the MIT History Department in 1965. Aside from a couple of years when he completed his PhD, and then a few years teaching and researching abroad, he remained in active teaching at MIT until fall 2003, when he assumed emeritus status. Some of his course offerings included \"Marx, Darwin and Freud,\" \"Modernity, Post-modernity and Capitalism,\" and \"The New Global History.\"\n\nMazlish was an editor of, and contributor to, several collected volumes, and the author of over two dozen books (with translations into six different languages), as well as several dozen more articles and reviews in over two dozen peer-reviewed journals (a couple of which he founded) in addition to various periodicals.\n\nNotable among his publications are: \"The Western Intellectual Tradition\" (1960; co-authored with Jacob Bronowski, this became a classic used in university courses and translated into many languages), \"Psychoanalysis and History\" (1963 edited volume), \"The Riddle of History: The Great Speculators from Vico to Freud\" (1966), \"The Revolutionary Ascetic\" (1976), \"A New Science: The Breakdown of Connections and the Birth of Sociology\" (1989), \"The Leader, the Led, and the Psyche\" (1990), \"Conceptualizing Global History\" (1991, co-edited with Ralph Buultjens), \"The Fourth Discontinuity: The Co-Evolution of Humans and Machines\" (1993), \"The Uncertain Sciences\" (1998), \"The Global History Reader\" (2005, co-edited with Akira Iriye, based on a course co-taught at Harvard in 2004), \"The New Global History\" (2006), and \"The Idea of Humanity in a Global Era\" (2009). He also wrote psychohistorical biographies on Richard Nixon (written at the time of the Watergate hearings, and receiving wide popular attention and acclaim), Henry Kissinger, and James and John Stuart Mill.\n\nHis articles have appeared in peer-reviewed journals such as \"History and Theory\", \"American Historical Review\", \"Historically Speaking\", and \"New Global Studies\", as well as periodicals for a more general audience, including \"Book Review Digest\", \"Center Magazine\", \"Encounter\", \"The Nation\", \"The New Republic\", \"New York Magazine\", and \"The Wilson Quarterly\". Reviews of his books have appeared in a wide range of publications, including \"The Christian Science Monitor\", \"Fortune Magazine\", \"The New York Review of Books\", and the \"New York Times\".\n\nIn 1960, he was a founding associate editor of \"History and Theory\", helping to edit it for ten years. In 1969 he was instrumental in the establishment of the \"Journal of Interdisciplinary History\", helping to secure its financial and institutional footing, and serving on its Board of Advisors from its founding until his death.\n\nMazlish has been substantively involved in the major ongoing activity of the Toynbee Foundation, the New Global History Initiative, which organized several international conferences and since 2007 has published the \"New Global Studies Journal\" (a peer-reviewed electronic journal). Mazlish is one of the editors, along with Nayan Chanda (Yale), Akira Iriye (Emeritus, Harvard), Saskia Sassen (Columbia), and Kenneth Weisbrode (Managing Editor).\n\nMazlish was also one of the founding members of the Wellfleet Psychohistory Group.\n\nIn 2004, the journal \"Historically Speaking\", on the occasion of an interview with Mazlish, conducted by its editor, Donald Yerxa, described him as \"identified with several seemingly disparate intellectual pursuits\", including psychohistory, the history of the social sciences, and the new field of \"global history\", which he was then helping to shape.\n\nMazlish was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1967.\n\nIn 1972-73 Mazlish was a recipient of a Social Science Research Council Faculty Fellowship and made a Visiting Member of the Institute for Advanced Study.\n\nFrom 1974 to 1979, Mazlish served as Head of MIT’s Department of Humanities (Course XXI). At the time, there were 11 “sections” representing their disciplines (this amounted to about 140 faculty), an unwieldy administrative structure. When he stepped down, he recommended that each section became an autonomous department; this occurred a few years later.\n\nMazlish received the Toynbee Prize for 1986-87. Other recipients include George F. Kennan, Ralf Dahrendorf, Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., and Albert O. Hirschman. He also served on the Board of Trustees (1992-2007), and as President (1997-2006), of the Toynbee Prize Foundation, which is an affiliated society of the American Historical Association, and sponsors one session at the Association's annual meeting, when the prize is awarded.\n\nMazlish served on the Scholars Council for the Kluge Prize of the Library of Congress, 2000-2003, and on the governing board of the Rockefeller Archive Center, 1999-2005.\n\nInvited lectures have included the Remsen Bird Honorary Lecture at Occidental College, the Presidential Lecture at Brown University, along with innumerable others in the United States and abroad, including in Argentina, India, Great Britain, and Russia.\"\n\nThe MIT History faculty held a symposium, \"World into Globe – History for the 21st Century\" to celebrate his work and teaching in 2011.\n\nMazlish's books have received several honors, including the Hudson Book Club Selection, Book Find Club Selection, and Kayden National Book Award (1994-1995, for his 1993 \"The Fourth Discontinuity\".\n\nBruce Mazlish was born in Brooklyn, New York, in 1923. His father, Louis Mazlish, had immigrated as a teenager from what was then Russia. A largely self-taught engineer and entrepreneur, Louis Mazlish started a laundry service for which he developed much of the equipment. He married Lee Reuben in 1919, and had three children, of whom Bruce was the middle, with an older brother Robert and a younger sister, Elaine.\n\nBruce Mazlish attended local public primary schools in Brooklyn, and then elected to go to Boys High School, which drew its students on a city-wide basis. Upon graduation he entered Columbia University in 1940.\n\nHaving enlisted in the Officer's Reserve Corps, Mazlish was called up in 1943, and underwent basic training in the US infantry. Subsequently he served in the Office of Strategic Services, assigned to the Far East arena, in Morale Operations. When the war ended, Columbia granted him a catch-up BA dated 1944.\n\nMazlish worked as a journalist at The Washington Daily News (now defunct) for half of a year, spent a year with his wife in Mexico working on a novel, and then worked at a third-rate prep school, teaching English (for which he was qualified) and History (which he learned by reading one chapter ahead of his students). Teaching the latter gave him an original view of the discipline, and the G.I. Bill drove educational expansion and demand for teachers in the post-WWII years.\n\nIn this way, Mazlish stumbled onto the path of the academic world, teaching history for two years at the University of Maine, Brunswick campus, and then completing advanced degrees at Columbia University in literature (MA thesis: “Defoe: Criminologist,” 1947) and then a Ph.D in Modern European History, where he worked mainly under Professors Shepherd Clough and Jacques Barzun (thesis on “Burke, Bonald and De Maistre: A Study in Conservative Thought”, 1955).\"\n\nMazlish was married to Neva Goodwin, economist and co-director of the Global Development And Environment Institute at Tufts University, with whom he has published and edited several works. Previously, he was married to Constance Shaw (fellow OSS officer in WWII), and to Anne Austin. He had two children from his first marriage, Cordelia and Peter Shaw, and two from his second, Anthony and Jared. He passed on November 27, 2016 in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and was eulogized in the New York Times, by several at the Toynbee Prize Foundation\n, by MIT News, and at an MIT Memorial service.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26789633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26789633", "title": "Cadet (genealogy)", "text": "Cadet (genealogy)\n\nIn genealogy, a cadet is a younger son, as opposed to the firstborn heir. Compare puisne.\n\nThe word is recorded in English since 1634, originally for a young son, identical to the French, which is itself derived from the Gascon Occitan (spoken in Gascony in southwest France) \"capdet\" \"captain, chief\", in turn from the Late Latin \"capitellum\", the diminutive of Latin \"caput\" \"head\" (hence also chief).\n\nYounger sons from Gascon families apparently were commonly sent to the French court to serve as officers; as a rule non-heirs from the European nobility sought careers in the military or the clergy.\n\nAs an adjective, \"cadet\" is used to signify a junior branch of a family. Thus, the Orléans line was a \"cadet branch\" of the Bourbon family.\n\nFor the status as such, the noun cadency exists, as in the heraldic term mark of cadency for a feature which distinguishes a cadet son's coat of arms from the father's which is passed on unaltered only to the (usually firstborn) heir.\n\nMilitary has been the traditional career choice of the nobility throughout the centuries, and it has been customary that the firstborn son has inherited the title, lands and possessions, while the younger sons of a noble family went to the military, often to be trained as officers. Hence the meaning \"cadet branch\" for a junior branch of a family and the term \"cadet\" for an officer trainee.\n"}
{"id": "31548945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31548945", "title": "Deutsche Stiftung Denkmalschutz", "text": "Deutsche Stiftung Denkmalschutz\n\nThe Deutsche Stiftung Denkmalschutz (\"German Foundation for Monument Protection\") is a German private initiative founded in 1985 that works for the preservation of cultural heritage in Germany and to promote the idea of cultural heritage management.\nSince 1900, when Georg Dehio published his \"Handbook of German Art Heritage\", Germany has not had a central list of National Heritage Sites. Each of the sixteen states keeps their own set of lists and many towns and cities keep their own lists, all based on varying criteria for inclusion.\nDenkmalschutz works to coordinate efforts, promote public awareness, and also to act as a central contact for worldwide organizations such as UNESCO World Heritage. They also organize and fund the European Heritage Days in Germany, which are called \"Tag des offenen Denkmals\". This \"open monument day\" has been held yearly with a different theme since 1993 on the second Sunday of September. For example, in 2011 on September 11th, the theme \"Romanticism, Realism, Revolution - The 19th Century\" opened in Trier. \n\nProtecting heritage site homes with a listing in a regional \"Denkmalschutz\" list is not always appreciated by everyone, since such a listing may come with legal historic preservation obligations. Other protected sites such as cobblestone streets can be seen as a nuisance for cyclists and wheelchairs. Many sites are marked with a tag according to the Hague Convention of 1954 regarding the protection of cultural heritage in times of armed conflict.\n\n"}
{"id": "22275900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22275900", "title": "Edvard Bull Sr.", "text": "Edvard Bull Sr.\n\nEdvard Bull (4 December 1881 – 26 August 1932) was a Norwegian historian and politician for the Labour Party. He took the doctorate in 1912 and became a professor at the University of Kristiania in 1917, and is known for writings on a broad range of subjects. In addition to his academic work, he is known for his work on \"Norsk biografisk leksikon\". His Marxist leanings inspired him to take up a parallel political career, in the Labour Party. Situated on the radical wing in the 1910s, he was among the architects as the Labour Party denounced the Twenty-one Conditions in 1923 and reunited with the social democrats in 1927. He was the deputy party leader from 1923 to 1932, and served as Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs in Hornsrud's short-lived cabinet in 1928.\n\nHe was born in Kristiania as the son of chief physician Edvard Isak Hambro Bull (1845–1925) and his wife Ida Marie Sofie Paludan (1861–1957). He was a brother of theatre director Johan Peter Bull, literary professor Francis Bull and genealogist Theodor Bull. He was also a nephew of military officer Karl Sigwald Johannes Bull, grandnephew of Anders Sandøe Ørsted Bull, great-grandson of Georg Jacob Bull and great-great-grandson of Chief Justice Johan Randulf Bull.\n\nIn July 1909 he married Lucie Juliane Antonette Voss (1886–1970). Their son Edvard Bull, Jr. became a notable historian.\n\nBull finished his secondary education in 1899, and studied in classical philology, geography and history at the University of Kristiania. He graduated in 1906 with the cand.mag. degree—by that time he had already published his first academic work. A study trip in Germany and France from 1906 to 1907 spurred his interest of medieval Catholicism. He planned on writing a larger work incorporating church history. He released the paper \"Bods- og skriftevæsenet i den norske kirke i middelalderen\" in 1909, and expanded upon this work to publish his doctoral thesis \"Folk og kirke i middelalderen. Studier til Norges historie\" in 1912. The work earned him the dr.philos. degree. He had been employed as a research fellow at the University of Kristiania since 1910, and became a lecturer in 1913. In 1917 he succeeded the deceased Ernst Sars as a professor.\n\nAlthough he wrote several publications on miscellaneous European history, his main contribution was on Norwegian history. His main work in the field, volume two of \"Det norske folks liv og historie\", was published as late as 1931. The study of old agricultural societies also led him on a path of local history. In 1914 and 1918 he published the two-volume \"Akers historie\", on the history of Aker, and two volumes of \"Kristianias historie\", on Oslo, followed later. Bull was also known as a co-editor of the biographical dictionary \"Norsk biografisk leksikon\", the first volume of which was released by the publishing house Aschehoug in 1923. Bull was well-known at Aschehoug, having formerly contributed to its periodical \"Samtiden\". Long-time \"Samtiden\" editor Gerhard Gran was the second co-editor, the third was Anders Krogvig. Following the early deaths of Gran and Krogvig, Einar Jansen was brought in to assist Bull. Bull was also a consultant for the Norwegian Nobel Committee from 1914 to 1918. From 1927 to 1932 he chaired the Norwegian Historical Association.\n\nDespite influences from Karl Lamprecht and Werner Sombart, Bull clearly drew most of his inspiration from Karl Marx' historical materialism. Publications in this vein include \"Karl Marx\" (1918) and \"Den russiske arbeider- og bonderevolution\" (1922). He also wrote purely political articles and pamphlets.\n\nWhile studying, Bull became acquainted with radical politicians like Emil Stang, Jr., Jacob Friis and Kyrre Grepp. He became active in the Norwegian Labour Party around 1915, and was a driving force behind the molding of the Labour Party into a revolutionary workers' party towards the end of the 1910s. He was known both as a party ideologist and speaker, editing the party magazine \"Det tyvende Aarhundrede\" from 1918 to 1920 and 1927 to 1928, but also as a day-to-day politician, serving on the school board of Kristiania from 1916 to 1925 and as a member of the city council from 1919 to 1925.\n\nIn 1919, the Labour Party joined the Third Communist International. Although the revolutionary wing had taken control of the party at the 1918 national convention, dissent soon surfaced. Moderates broke out to form the Social Democratic Labour Party of Norway in 1921. The main contention surrounded the possible adaption of the Twenty-one Conditions, which was demanded by Comintern members. Bull was a staunch opponent of the Twenty-one Conditions, and following a resolution at the February 1923 national convention, the Labour Party left the Comintern. In the same year Bull was selected as deputy party leader, a position he held until his death. The Soviet-friendly Communist Party was then formed by splinters, while the road was open for a reconciliation with the Social Democratic Labour Party. Bull helped engineer the reunion between the two parties in 1927. In the same year, Labour became the largest party in the general election. Bull was never elected to Parliament, but when Christopher Hornsrud formed the first ever socialist cabinet in Norway, Bull was appointed as Minister of Foreign Affairs. However, the cabinet only lasted from 28 January to 15 February, being defeated by the other parliamentary parties on a vote of no confidence. He was both preceded and succeeded by people who were also Prime Ministers; Ivar Lykke and Johan Ludwig Mowinckel.\n\nThis defeat pushed the Labour Party in a revolutionary direction once again. Bull was among the writers of the party manifesto for the 1930 general election, which was more radical. However, this tactic caused a significant loss in the election. Historians generally agree that from this point, the Labour Party decisively drifted away from the revolutionary rhetoric and policies. Ole Colbjørnsen emerged as the new party ideologist, writing \"En norsk treårsplan\" in 1933 together with Axel Sømme, a program for turning Labour into a social democratic reform party. Labour politicians formed a cabinet again in 1935, and more or less held power until 1965, except for the war years 1940 to 1945 when Germany occupied Norway as well as a month in 1963, when a right-winged cabinet held office.\n\nBull, however, would not live to see any of this, as he died from a brain tumor in 1932. This meant that he did not release further volumes of \"Det norske folks liv og historie\", as he had planned. Volume three of \"Kristianias historie\" was underway, but was not finished. V. Sønstevold completed and published it in 1937.\n"}
{"id": "21746010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21746010", "title": "Elizabeth Parke Custis Law", "text": "Elizabeth Parke Custis Law\n\nElizabeth (Eliza) Parke Custis Law (August 21, 1776 – December 31, 1831) was the eldest granddaughter of Martha Dandridge Washington and step-grandchild of George Washington. She married Thomas Law, the youngest son of the late bishop of Carlisle, England, and an experienced administrator with the East India Company.\n\nElizabeth P. (Custis) Law became a social leader in the District of Columbia, and she worked to preserve the Washington family heritage. She and Law separated in 1804 and divorced in 1811. They had one daughter who survived and three grandchildren.\n\nElizabeth Parke Custis was born on 21 August 1776. She was the eldest daughter of John Parke Custis, the son of Martha Washington and her first husband, Daniel Parke Custis; and his wife Eleanor Calvert, daughter of Benedict Swingate Calvert and his wife Elizabeth Calvert. She was also the eldest grandchild of Martha Washington and step-grandchild of President George Washington.\n\nElizabeth's siblings included Martha Parke Custis Peter (1777–1854), Eleanor (Nelly) Parke Custis Lewis (1779–1852), and George Washington Parke Custis (1781–1857). She was known to her family as \"Betsey.\" During their early childhood, the four children were raised at the Abingdon plantation, which their father had purchased.\n\nAfter the 1781 death of their father, the eldest two daughters (Elizabeth and Martha) continued to live with their mother at Abingdon. The two youngest children (Nelly and George) moved to Mount Vernon to live with George and Martha Washington. In 1783, their widowed mother Eleanor Calvert Custis married Dr. David Stuart (1753–1814), an Alexandria, physician and business associate of George Washington. Dr. Stuart and his wife remained at Abingdon for the first years of their marriage.\n\nThe Stuart family and the Washingtons remained very close. In 1785, Dr. Stuart purchased an estate, Hope Park, in Fairfax County, Virginia and moved the family there. The girls continued to visit back and forth with their grandparents, and Martha Washington’s letters mark these occasions. Elizabeth and Martha taken often to Mount Vernon in George Washington’s coach. When Eleanor Calvert Custis Stuart went to stay with her mother on her father’s death in 1788, the two sisters remained with Martha Washington.\n\nOn 20 March 1796, Elizabeth married Thomas Law, the son of Edmund Law, Bishop of Carlisle, and the brother of Edward Law, 1st Baron Ellenborough, George Henry Law, later Bishop of Bath and Wells, and John Law, Bishop of Clonfert and Kilmacduagh in Ireland. Law had come to Washington, D.C. after working for years in the East India Company, and used his fortune to invest in real estate in the new capital. Speculation proved volatile, but he became known as one of the city's wealthiest citizens. He was not always successful in his affairs and eventually lost much of his fortune before his death.\n\nThe announcement of Elizabeth's engagement came as a surprise to George and Martha Washington, as Thomas was twice Elizabeth's age. They may not have known that he brought his two natural, Anglo-Indian sons Edmund and John with him to the United States from India. They were educated at Yale and Harvard, respectively, and John became a lawyer in Washington, DC.\n\nElizabeth and Thomas separated in 1804 and divorced on 15 January 1811.\n\nThe couple had one daughter who survived infancy, Elizabeth Law (19 January 1797 – 9 August 1822). Her daughter Elizabeth married Nicholas Lloyd Rogers on 5 April 1817. They had three children together: Edmund, Eliza and Eleanor.\n\nGeorge and Martha Washington were unable to attend the Laws' wedding, but invited the couple to honeymoon in Philadelphia at the President's House. The First Lady promised one of the slaves in the presidential household, Oney Judge, as a wedding gift to the couple, but the young woman fled after learning of the plan. She reached Portsmouth, New Hampshire, where she remained free. She married and had three children. Martha Washington bequeathed her younger sister, Delphy, to the bride and groom instead. \n\nIn 1800 Delphy married William Costin, a free man, and lived with him in Washington, DC. Delphy and her children were manumitted by Thomas Law and Eliza P. Custis Law in 1807. Eliza remained in close contact with William and Delphy Costin throughout her life.\n\nUpon her marriage, Elizabeth Law had inherited about 80 slaves from her late father's estate. After Martha Washington died in 1802, she inherited about 35 dower slaves from her grandfather Daniel Parke Custis's estate. Martha Washington had use of them in her lifetime. Following Elizabeth Law's mother's 1811 death, her father's estate was liquidated, and she inherited about 40 more slaves. She likely sold some of them for her support.\n\nIn March, 1796, Elizabeth and Thomas moved into the Thomas Law House near present-day 6th and N Streets Southwest. The house became known as \"Honeymoon House\" as the Laws lived there for a few months while awaiting completion of their house. They moved at the end of August. The National Park Service listed the house on the National Register of Historic Places on August 14, 1973.\n\nFollowing her separation from Thomas, Elizabeth resided between 1805 and 1809 at a \"small country house\" and estate on Seminary Hill in Alexandria, which she called Mount Washington. Mount Washington later was acquired by the Episcopal High School and used as its central administration building; it was known as Hoxton House.\n\nMartha Washington bequeathed to Elizabeth the John Trumbull portrait of General Washington, \"Washington at Verplanck's Point\", as well as a dressing table and looking glass.\n\nElizabeth Parke Custis Law died in Richmond, Virginia at the home of a friend \"on Saturday night (that is, 31 December 1831), ten minutes before 12 o'clock,\" according to her obituary in the \"Richmond Enquirer.\" (Her death date is sometimes given as 1 January 1832.) Her body was interred in the New Tomb at Mount Vernon on 7 January 1832.\n\nLaw made a marriage settlement with his wife at the time of their separation, providing for an annuity from certain real estate property. Her son-in-law Nicholas L. Rogers gained appointment as administrator of her estate in December 1832, on behalf of her three grandchildren (his children). He filed suit against the administrator of her marriage settlement for payment of annuities and interest that were outstanding. \n\nAfter Thomas Law's death in 1834, these issues became tied to settlement of his estate, which was contested for decades. He had made specific bequests for two grandchildren by his late natural son John, as well as for another natural son. He also had made bequests for his three legitimate grandchildren. The case was finally settled in 1854 by a US Supreme Court decision (\"Adams v. Law\"), by which time his remaining property was said to have greatly increased in value.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16973823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16973823", "title": "Eugène Goupil", "text": "Eugène Goupil\n\nCharles Eugène Espidon Goupil (14 December 1831 – 24 October 1896) was a French Mexican philanthropist and collector.\n\nIn 1889 he bought Joseph Marius Alexis Aubin's collection of 384 Mesoamerican manuscripts. On 14 May 1864, he married Augustine Élie. After Goupil's death, his wife donated the collection to the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris.\n\nGoupil was the great-uncle of artist Jean Charlot.\n"}
{"id": "10999811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10999811", "title": "Eusebio Leal", "text": "Eusebio Leal\n\nEusebio Leal Spengler, (born 11 September 1942 in Havana, Cuba), is the Havana City Historian, director of the restoration program of Old Havana and its historical center, UNESCO World Heritage Site, Deputy to the National Assembly of the Popular Power in the IV, V and VI Legislature, Ambassador of Good Will of the United Nations, the University of Havana and has his masters in Latin American, Caribbean, and Cuban Studies. He is President of the Commission of Monuments in the City of Havana and a specialist in Archeological Sciences. His son, Javier Leal, runs a travel agency and an art gallery in Barcelona, Spain.\n\nAcademic studies:\n\nMember of:\n\nAcademic activity:\n\nVarious awards:\n\n"}
{"id": "35575273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35575273", "title": "General Service Respirator", "text": "General Service Respirator\n\nThe General Service Respirator is a military gas mask designed to replace the previous S10 respirator for the British Armed Forces. It was designed by DSTL and Scott Safety in collaboration with the MoD, and is manufactured by Scott Safety.\n\nDesign work started in 2000, and from the outset the GSR was designed to function better than the S10 in \"hot, high and dry\" environments whilst still keeping the S10's qualities in the temperate environments of Europe it was originally designed for. It was also designed to be worn for longer periods than the S10, having been designed for 24 hours of continuous use in CBRN environments as opposed to the previous design level of 4 hours.\n\nThe respirator was officially adopted into service with the Armed Forces on 26 August 2010, and training started during 2011, with British Forces Germany being first to field them. All new personnel are trained in use of the system. Existing personnel will be trained through refresher courses, starting with the British Army, and continuing with the Royal Navy, Royal Air Force and the Royal Fleet Auxiliary. By January 2015, all 300,000+ respirators had been delivered to the British Armed Forces.\n\nThe new respirator, produced by Scott Health and Safety Ltd, reportedly provides a significantly higher level of protection. Features which differentiate it from the S10 which it replaced are:\n\n"}
{"id": "12780020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12780020", "title": "George Kauffman", "text": "George Kauffman\n\nGeorge B. Kauffman (born 1930 in Philadelphia) is an American chemist. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania, and Ph.D. from the University of Florida. Dr. Kauffman is currently a Professor of Chemistry at California State University, Fresno. He has written over 17 books, and over 2,000 articles. He won the Dexter Award from the American Chemical Society, and was a Guggenheim Fellow.\n"}
{"id": "5022765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5022765", "title": "Georgia Trust for Historic Preservation", "text": "Georgia Trust for Historic Preservation\n\nThe Georgia Trust for Historic Preservation is the country's largest statewide, nonprofit preservation organization with more than 8,000 members. Founded in 1973, the Trust is committed to preserving and enhancing Georgia’s communities and their diverse historic resources for the education and enjoyment of all.\n\nThe Georgia Trust generates community revitalization by finding buyers for endangered properties acquired by its \"Revolving Fund\"; encourages neighborhood revitalization and provides design assistance to 105 Georgia \"Main Street\" cities; trains Georgia’s teachers to engage students in 61 Georgia school systems to discover state and national history through their local historic resources; and advocates for funding, tax incentives and other laws aiding preservation efforts. The Georgia Trust is a recipient of the Trustees Award for Organizational Excellence from the National Trust for Historic Preservation. \nThe Georgia Trust operates two historic house museums:\n\nIn addition to providing preservation resources for individuals and communities throughout the state, The Georgia Trust helps save endangered houses and buildings, uncover the beauty of downtown buildings, educate the next preservation generation, and advocate for preservation funding and laws through the following programs:\n\nThe Georgia Trust for Historic Preservation established the Revolving Fund for endangered properties in 1990 to provide effective alternatives to demolition or neglect of architecturally and historically significant properties by promoting rehabilitation and enabling owners of endangered historic properties to connect with buyers who will rehabilitate their properties.\n\nThe Revolving Fund accomplishes this goal by either accepting property donations or by purchasing options on endangered historic properties. The properties are then marketed nationally to locate buyers who agree to preserve and maintain the structures. Protective covenants are attached to the deeds to ensure that the historic integrity of each property is retained, and purchasers are required to sign rehabilitation agreements based on the work to be performed on the structure.\n\nSince the Main Street program's start in 1980, The Georgia Trust has offered design assistance, on-site rehabilitation consultations, hands-on presentations and hand-drawn and digital renderings to help business owners and downtown managers rehabilitate and reuse their historic resources.\n\nServices provided by The Georgia Trust's Main Street Design Assistance Program have become integral to downtown revitalization efforts. Supported by the Department of Community Affairs' (DCA) Office of Downtown Development, the program has assisted more than 3,000 business owners in 105 Main Street cities across Georgia to encourage the rehabilitation of historic downtown commercial buildings. \n\nA recipient of a Governor's Award in the Humanities, the Talking Walls heritage education program has trained more than 1,700 teachers, who have reached more than 370,000 students in 61 school systems in Georgia since 1991. The program's teacher workshops and ongoing local support trains educators to use local historic resources such as photos, maps, oral histories and historic buildings as teaching tools in Georgia's mandated curriculum.\n\nThe Georgia Department of Education recently emphasized the Trust's key role as an important educational resource by approving the Trust as a partner in its Educational Initiatives Program. This status recognizes The Georgia Trust as an official collaborator with the DOE to provide quality instructional materials to educators across the state. Talking Walls also received statewide certification by the Georgia DOE, allowing the Trust to award professional recertification credits to teachers attending program workshops. \n\nFounded in 1987, the statewide coordinating council for historic preservation advocacy encourages laws, programs and policies that promote the preservation of Georgia’s historic resources by mobilizing grassroots preservationists across the state.\n\nAmong its activities, GaPA:\n\n\nThe Georgia Trust releases an annual list of endangered historic sites throughout Georgia. The \"Places in Peril\" program seeks to identify significant historic, archaeological and cultural properties that are threatened by demolition, deterioration or insensitive public policy or development, and have a demonstrable level of community interest, commitment and support. Through this program, the Trust encourages owners and individuals, organizations and communities to employ preservation tools, partnerships and resources necessary to preserve and utilize selected historic properties in peril.\n\nHistoric properties are selected for listing based on several criteria. Sites must be listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or the Georgia Register of Historic Places and must be subject to a serious threat to their existence or historical, architectural and/or archeological integrity. There must also be a demonstrable level of community commitment and support for the preservation of listed sites.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe \"Rambler\" is The Georgia Trust's quarterly publication. It is distributed to members of The Georgia Trust from around the state and to other state and national preservation organizations.\n\nArchitect J. Neel Reid (and his partners in Hentz, Reid & Adler) founded the Georgia school of classicists after study at Columbia University and abroad. Many sources influenced Reid’s architecture, and his interior and garden designs. His travel diary, sketchbooks and scrapbooks, and extensive library reflect this. His early-twentieth-century interest in historic preservation and contextual design, in architectural education and professional standards of practice inspired others long after his tragic early death of a brain tumor in 1926.\n\nReid’s father’s family were Troup County, Georgia, pioneers; he grew up in Macon, beginning apprenticeship and practice there before, in 1909, moving to Atlanta.\n\n\"J. Neel Reid, Architect\" by William R. Mitchell, Jr. and published by The Georgia Trust, gives new life to Reid’s rich legacy, keeping his influence fresh in this new century. The J. Neel Reid Prize, provided by a Georgia Trust fund produced from the sale of the book, helps ensure continuation of Reid’s influence among a new generation of architects.\n\nProceeds from book sales help support the J. Neel Reid Prize, a yearly award to an architecture student, an architect intern or a recently registered architect for study travel that honors the legacy of Neel Reid.\n\nWritten by Timothy J. Crimmins and Anne H. Farrisee with photographs by Diane Kirkland, the award-winning \"Democracy Restored\" is a stunning and fully illustrated history of the Georgia Capital that not only pays tribute to a grand ole edifice, but also vividly recounts the history that was made—and that continues to be made—within and without its walls. The Georgia Capitol is a place where, for more than a century, legislators have debated, governors have proclaimed, and courts have ruled. It is also a place where countless ordinary citizens have gathered in lively tour groups, angry protest mobs, and at times, solemn funeral processions.\n\nProceeds go to The Georgia Trust and the Capitol Restoration Fund.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2021382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2021382", "title": "Giolla Íosa Mór Mac Fir Bhisigh", "text": "Giolla Íosa Mór Mac Fir Bhisigh\n\nGilla Íosa Mor mac Donnchadh MacFhirbhisigh (fl. 1390 – 1418) was a historian, scribe and poet of the learned Clan MacFhirbhisigh based at Lackan in Tír Fhíacrach, now part of County Sligo. He was the chief compiler of the \"Yellow Book of Lecan\" and the \"Great Book of Lecan,\" both of which are valuable literary and historical texts.\n\n"}
{"id": "8107507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8107507", "title": "Gustavo Gabriel Levene", "text": "Gustavo Gabriel Levene\n\nGustavo Gabriel Levene (August 30, 1905 – 1987) was an Argentinian historian and writer.\n\nGustavo Gabriel Levene was born on August 30, 1905, in San Fernando del Valle de Catamarca, Catamarca, Argentina where he begins his elementary studies, later moving to Buenos Aires, where he finishes his secondary studies. He enrolls at the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Buenos Aires but he later drops out. He then continued his studies at the Faculty of Humanities and Educational Science at the University of La Plata, from where he graduated with a professor's degree. As such, he holds several positions in different high schools, and was director of the Cangallo Schule school from 1962 to 1965. He was also assistant to the minister of education, and member of the editorial board of the \"Biblioteca de Mayo\" (\"May's Library\") of the Senate.\n\nHe was a prolific historian who conceived history from a human perspective through the common life of his historical characters, their traditions and beliefs. This point of view was unique during a time in which history was written based on heroic military facts or about people who were able to change the course of history. Among his works it stands out the \"New Argentine History, Costumbrist and Social View from the Conquest to Our Days\" () and \"History of the Argentine Presidents\" (\"Historia de los presidentes argentinos\"), the latter covering from Bernardino Rivadavia's presidency to the third presidency of Juan Domingo Perón. His interpretation of the nation's history adheres to the liberal tradition, viewing the colonial period like an arid and unprogressive era, having in Bernardino Rivadavia his early nineteenth century hero, and viewing Juan Manuel de Rosas as a reactionary, defender of the colonial system who was useful for the British interests. He stepped into the historical playwright with \"Mariano Moreno\", a play that won the First National Prize of Literature 1957. He went on to write other historical plays about the personalities of José de San Martín and Juan Martín de Pueyrredón in \"The Unknown\" (\"El desconocido\"), Bernardino Rivadavia in \"Bernardino\", Esteban Echeverría in \"The Tomorrow\" (\"El mañana\") and Lucio V. Mansilla in \"A Man at the Mirror\" (\"Un hombre ante el espejo\"). However, it is \"Childhood in Catamarca\" (\"Niñez en Catamarca\") his most known and piece of work, which is an autobiographic tale that has been adopted by many Argentine schools as a lecture book. Gustavo G. Levene died in Buenos Aires, in 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "42663611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42663611", "title": "Halvard Bjørkvik", "text": "Halvard Bjørkvik\n\nHalvard Bjørkvik (born 9 October 1924) is a Norwegian historian. He was born in Finnøy. He was manager of the Norwegian Museum of Cultural History from 1975, and was appointed professor at the University of Oslo from 1984. His research focus was on agrarian history. Among his publications are \"Jord-eige og jord-leige i Ryfylke i eldre tid\" from 1958, and \"Kven åtte jorda i den gamle leilendingstida?\" from 1972. He was decorated with the King's Medal of Merit in gold in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "54213333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54213333", "title": "Hardware security", "text": "Hardware security\n\nHardware security as a discipline originated out of cryptographic engineering and involves hardware design, access control, secure multi-party computation, secure key storage, ensuring code authenticity, measures to ensure that the supply chain that built the product is secure among other things.\n\nA hardware security module (HSM) is a physical computing device that safeguards and manages digital keys for strong authentication and provides cryptoprocessing. These modules traditionally come in the form of a plug-in card or an external device that attaches directly to a computer or network server.\n\nHardware backdoors are backdoors in hardware. Conceptionally related, a hardware Trojan (HT) is a malicious modification an electronic system, particularly in the context an integrated circuit.\n\nA physical unclonable function (PUF) is a physical entity that is embodied in a physical structure and is easy to evaluate but hard to predict. Further, an individual PUF device must be easy to make but practically impossible to duplicate, even given the exact manufacturing process that produced it. In this respect it is the hardware analog of a one-way function. The name \"physical unclonable function\" might be a little misleading as some PUFs are clonable, and most PUFs are noisy and therefore do not achieve the requirements for a function. Today, PUFs are usually implemented in integrated circuits and are typically used in applications with high security requirements.\n\nMany attacks on sensitive data and resources reported by organizations occur from within the organization itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "57418762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57418762", "title": "Helen Manning", "text": "Helen Manning\n\nHelen Edith Vanderhoop Manning Murray (September 24, 1919 - January 25, 2008) was a Native American historian and author from the Aquinnah Wampanoag tribe, known for her book \"Moshup's Footsteps\" published in 2000 and her work as the education director at the Tribe.\n\nWhile working at Fisk University, Manning met Joseph Murray due to the fact that he was attending dental school in the same area. Shortly after meeting, in July 1946 the two married and resided in Washington D.C. until 1953. At that time, Joseph was deployed to Korea as part of the army. After returning home from overseas, the couple divorced. Manning was able to find love again and in 1961 she married James Manning, instantly becoming a stepmother to his three daughters, June, Judith, and Jyl. James Manning was also a member of the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head. Together the two along with James’ parents (Captain Walter Manning and Ada) opened up a family restaurant. In addition they established a gift shop, Manning’s Snack Bar, and cottages near the town’s lighthouse. There, it was Manning’s role to prepare the food for the restaurant, including chowder, lobster, fried clams, and pie. Unfortunately, James Manning passed away in 1974, leaving Manning as a widow and closing down the family restaurant. Today, the restaurant has been transformed into a cottage and is rented out to visitors. However, in 2002 Manning and her first husband Joseph Murray rekindled their flame and remarried, residing in Washington D.C once more.\n\nManning was born in Gay Head to mother Evelyn Magretta (Moss) and father Arthur Herbert Vanderhoop. As an only child, Manning was fortunate enough to spend her summers at Gay Head while receiving her education in Washington D.C. throughout the school year. Starting at the age of seven, she would live with her maternal grandmother Lavina Moss, aunt Edith Moss, and uncle Berry Armstrong Claytor during the school year in order to gain a higher level of education than she would at Gay Head. Also residing in her grandmothers home were Manning’s cousins Richard and Beryl, who became more like siblings. Even while being educated in Washington D.C, there was never a time that Manning didn’t look forward to returning to her simple life with cranberry bogs at Gay Head.\n\nIn 1972 Manning was able to give back to Gay Head in more ways than just teaching. For 16 years she served as the director on the Wampanoag Tribal Council. As a part of this council, she made it her duty to fight for federal recognition of her tribe. And in April 1987, the tribe did receive its federal recognition, marking this as one of Manning’s biggest accomplishments. Upon gaining this recognition, Manning became the tribal council secretary. However, she didn’t stop there, in November 1974 she was elected to the Martha’s Vineyard Commission. She received the most votes throughout the island, bringing in 2,161 votes. In addition, from 1976-1979 Manning was the Gay Head selectman, on the Aquinnah Cultural Council, and Philbin scholarship committee, all while being the library trustee for over 20 years.\n\nManning was the director of education for the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head. As part of this position she served on many committees such as the human services, health, hospitality and Christiantown museum. Also, on the Aquinnah Cultural Board, she was a part of the community service programs as well as the language revitalization program. She represented her people on the Massachusetts Commission on Indian Affairs in addition to being the treasurer of the Aquinnah Cultural Center. Reminding her of her childhood education in Washington D.C. she also gave back to the students by chaperoning the American Indian Youth Summit taking place in D.C. during 1998, 1999, and 2001. She accomplished all of this before officially retiring as the director of education for the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "3871241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3871241", "title": "Information assurance vulnerability alert", "text": "Information assurance vulnerability alert\n\nAn information assurance vulnerability alert (IAVA) is an announcement of a computer application software or operating system vulnerability notification in the form of alerts, bulletins, and technical advisories identified by DoD-CERT, a division of the United States Cyber Command. These selected vulnerabilities are the mandated baseline, or minimum configuration of all hosts residing on the GIG. USCYBERCOM analyzes each vulnerability and determines if it is necessary or beneficial to the Department of Defense to release it as an IAVA. Implementation of IAVA policy will help ensure that DoD Components take appropriate mitigating actions against vulnerabilities to avoid serious compromises to DoD computer system assets that would potentially degrade mission performance.\n\nThe combatant commands, services, agencies and field activities are required to implement vulnerability notifications in the form of alerts, bulletins, and technical advisories. USCYBERCOM has the authority to direct corrective actions, which may ultimately include disconnection of any enclave, or affected system on the enclave, not in compliance with the IAVA program directives and vulnerability response measures (i.e. communication tasking orders or messages). USCYBERCOM will coordinate with all affected organizations to determine operational impact to the DoD before instituting a disconnection.\n\nOn February 15, 1998, the Deputy Secretary of Defense issued a classified memorandum on Information Assurance, that instructed the DISA, with the assistance of the Military Departments, to develop an alert system that ensured positive control of information assurance. According to the memorandum, the alert system should:\n\n\nThe Deputy Secretary of Defense issued an Information Assurance Vulnerability Alert (IAVA) policy memorandum on December 30, 1999. Current events of the time demonstrated that widely known vulnerabilities exist throughout DoD networks, with the potential to severely degrade mission performance. The policy memorandum instructs the DISA to develop and maintain an IAVA database system that would ensure a positive control mechanism for system administrators to receive, acknowledge, and comply with system vulnerability alert notifications. The IAVA policy requires the Component Commands, Services, and Agencies to register and report their acknowledgement of and compliance with the IAVA database. According to the policy memorandum, the compliance data to be reported should include the number of assets affected, the number of assets in compliance, and the number of assets with waivers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1084766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1084766", "title": "James O. Fraser", "text": "James O. Fraser\n\nJames Outram Fraser (Chinese 富能仁) (1886–1938) was a British Protestant Christian missionary to China with the China Inland Mission. He pioneered work among the Lisu people, of Southwestern China, in the early part of the 20th century. He is credited with the Fraser alphabet for their language.\n\nBorn in London in 1886. Fraser had four brothers and sisters. His parents divorced when Fraser was a teen, his mother moving to Letchworth, buying property with her own funds.\n\nBy 1906, he was at Imperial College London studying engineering. Fraser was accomplished in piano and held a recital in his twenties before he left for China.\n\nHe became a graduate engineer. However, in 1908 he dedicated his life to missionary work and joined the China Inland Mission. He arrived in China at 22 and travelled from Shanghai to Hong Kong and then to the mountainous region of China's far southwest.\n\nHe was forced by the chaos accompanying the Chinese Revolution of 1911 to divide his time between Yunnan Province and Burma. He learned the Lisu language and commenced his work among the Lisu, a Tibeto-Burmese minority people who lived in the high mountains along the borders of the two countries.\n\nFraser had arrived in Yunnan in 1910, and spent nearly thirty years working among the Lisu. Fraser is best known for the alphabet he created for the Lisu, often referred to as the Fraser alphabet. It was designed for purpose of translating the New Testament into the Lisu language. Fraser also designed a written musical notation for transcribing the Lisu's oral history songs.\n\nGoing to China with CIM (China Inland Mission), he was stationed in the then remote province of Yunnan to work with the local Chinese, but Fraser was a keen climber and revelled in climbing through the mountains meeting and preaching to the Lisu people, particularly in the upper Salween River valley. Readily accepted by them and able to live in their mud floor huts, he was able to communicate a little through Chinese and then to learn their language, which is in the Tibeto-Burman group. Initial success was followed by years of doubt and difficulty until 1916, when he and fellow missionaries started to see scores of families convert to Christianity and enthusiastically pursue a new life without the fear of the spirits that had previously characterised them.\n\nBy 1918, sparked by family evangelism carried on by the people themselves, 600 believers had been baptised. Fraser was known for his ability to organise the people into strong indigenous churches that became models for church-planting ventures not only for other minority peoples in China's southwest but also for other countries.\n\nAware that they would soon need material in their language, he began work immediately on Mark's gospel and a hymnbook since they showed great interest in writing and were already great singers and natural musicians.\n\nFraser went back to England on furlough in 1924 and when he returned to \"Lisuland\" in 1929, he was married, to Roxie Dymond, the daughter of a Methodist missionary stationed in Kunming.\n\nFraser developed a script for the Lisu language and used it to prepare a catechism, portions of Scripture, and eventually, with much help from his colleagues, a complete New Testament. Working initially on Mark and John and then on a handbook of Lisu history and language, Fraser handed on the translation task to Allyn Cooke and his wife, Leila. He came back to help the team with revision and checking in the mid-1930s. The complete New Testament was finished in 1936.\n\nFraser maintained a consistent policy of training the Lisu converts (usually whole households and whole villages at a time) to be self-supporting and to pay for their own books and church buildings. They raised their own funds for the support of pastors, of wives and children of their travelling evangelists and of festivals and other occasions. Unlike other missionaries of his generation, Fraser would not pay local preachers to go out or for building local church structures. That was something that put the Lisu in good stead for the years of Japanese occupation and the Communist persecution, particularly during the Cultural Revolution.\n\nNevertheless, tens of thousands of them fled during this era to neighbouring Burma and Thailand. Fraser also left church government in the hands of Lisu elders; very little imprint was made on them that had a home church character, other than the tremendous prayer support the Fraser organised back in England for the Lisu and his work.\n\nThroughout the 1930s, other missionaries came to assist in the work, but the bulk of the conversions happened as a result of Lisu evangelists covering the ground and reaching not only the Lisu but also the Kachin and Yi people (Nosu). Revivals also broke out at this time. It is acknowledged by the Chinese government that by the 1990s, over 90% of the Lisu in China were Christian.\n\nFraser wrote many articles in English for \"The Chinese Recorder\" and \"China's Millions\". After seeing great fruit for his labours, James Outram Fraser died in Baoshan, in western Yunnan in 1938 of cerebral malaria, leaving his pregnant wife and two children. He was 52.\n\nHis main biographer was Mrs. Howard Taylor, who published \"Behind The Ranges\" in 1944, containing numerous extracts from his letters and diaries. His daughter, Eileen Crossman, gives his biography, \"Mountain Rain\", in 1982, much of her material being drawn from Taylor (1944). Fraser's grave is now at the Qing Hua church.\n\nIn 1992, the Chinese government officially recognised the Fraser alphabet as the official script of the Lisu language. Today, Fraser is remembered as one of Christianity's most successful missionaries to East Asia in modern times.\n\nChristianity is thriving in the Salween River valley, where the Lisu live nearly 70 years after the death of Fraser. Of the 18,000 Lisu who lived in Fugong in 1950, 3,400 professed faith in Christ. As of 2007, there are estimated to be 80–90 percent of the 70,000 making the same profession. In Yunnan it is estimated that there are 100,000–200,000 total Lisu Christians in the Lisu Church. More than 75,000 Lisu Bibles have been legally printed in China following the explosive growth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1571267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1571267", "title": "Jean-Henri Merle d'Aubigné", "text": "Jean-Henri Merle d'Aubigné\n\nJean-Henri Merle d'Aubigné (16 August 179421 October 1872) was a Swiss Protestant minister and historian of the Reformation.\n\nJean-Henri Merle d'Aubigné was born at Eaux Vives, a neighbourhood of Geneva. A street in the area is named after him. The ancestors of his father Robert Merle d'Aubigné (1755–1799), were French Protestant refugees. \nThe life Jean-Henri's parents chose for him was in commerce; but in college at the Académie de Genève, he instead decided on Christian ministry. \nHe was profoundly influenced by Robert Haldane, the Scottish missionary and preacher who visited Geneva and became a leading light in , a conservative Protestant evangelical movement.\n\nIt was in small extra-curricular groups led by Haldane, that Merle d'Aubigné and his peers studied the Bible; according to church historian John Carrick, no classes were offered in the Christian scriptures at the school at that time, their having been replaced by the ancient Greek scholars.\n\nWhen Merle d'Aubigné went abroad to further his education in 1817, Germany was about to celebrate the tercentenary of the Reformation; and thus early he conceived the ambition to write the history of that great epoch. \nStudying at Berlin University for eight months 1817–1818, Merle d'Aubigné received inspiration from teachers as diverse as J. A. W. Neander and W. M. L. de Wette. \n\nIn 1818, Merle d'Aubigné took the post of pastor of the French Protestant church at Hamburg, where he served for five years. \nIn 1823, he was called to become pastor of the Franco-German Brussels Protestant Church and preacher to the court of King William I of the Netherlands of the House of Orange-Nassau.\n\nDuring the Belgian revolution of 1830, Merle d'Aubigné thought it advisable to undertake pastoral work at home in Switzerland rather than accept an educational post in the family of the Dutch king. \nThe Evangelical Society had been founded with the idea of promoting evangelical Christianity in Geneva and elsewhere, but a need arose for a theological seminary to train pastors. \nOn his return to Switzerland, Merle d'Aubigné was invited to become professor of church history in such a seminary, and he also continued to labor in the cause of evangelical Protestantism. \nIn him the Evangelical Alliance found a hearty promoter. He frequently visited England, was made a D.C.L. v Oxford University, and received civic honors from the city of Edinburgh. He died suddenly in 1872.\n\nThe first portion of Merle d'Aubigné's \"Histoire de la Reformation\" - \"History of the Reformation of the Sixteenth Century\" - which was devoted to the earlier period of the movement in Germany, i.e., Martin Luther's time, at once earned a foremost place among modern French ecclesiastical historians, and was translated into most European languages. The second portion, \"The History of the Reformation in Europe in the Time of Calvin\", dealing with reform in the French reformer's sphere, exhaustively treats the subject with the same scholarship as the earlier work, but the second volume did not meet with the same success. It is part of the subject Merle d'Aubigné was most competent to discuss, and was nearly completed at the time of his death. Such was the scope Merle d'Aubigné's scholarship and his level of dedication, states church historian John Carrick, that Merle d'Aubigné \" visited the major libraries of Central and Western Europe in order to read original documents in Latin, French, German, Dutch, and English.\"\n\nAmong minor treatises authored by Merle d'Aubigné, the most important are his vindication of the character and the aims of Oliver Cromwell, and his sketch of the trendings of the Church of Scotland.\n\nHis principal works are \n\nAttribution:\n\n"}
{"id": "30772653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30772653", "title": "La Sainte Courtisane", "text": "La Sainte Courtisane\n\nLa Sainte Courtisane (, French for \"The Holy Courtesan\") is an unfinished play by Oscar Wilde written in 1894. The original draft was left in a taxi cab by the author, and was never completed. It was first published in 1908 by Wilde's literary executor, Robert Ross. It has never been performed, and has been little studied.\n\n\nThe play is incomplete. The plot of the existing segment is as follows: Myrrhina is an Alexandrian noblewoman who travels to the mountains to tempt Honorius, a Christian hermit, away from goodness with her beauty and wealth. After they talk, he decides to return to sin in Alexandria while she discovers religion and chooses to remain in the desert.\n\nRobbie Ross summarises the complete plot in his introduction to \"Miscellanies\":\n\n\"Honorius the hermit, so far as I recollect the story, falls in love with the courtesan who has come to tempt him, and he reveals to her the secret of the Love of God. She immediately becomes a Christian, and is murdered by robbers; Honorius the hermit goes back to Alexandria to pursue a life of pleasure.\"\n\nOscar Wilde began work on the play in 1894, between writing \"Salome\" and \"The Importance of Being Earnest\", but did not complete it before his trial and imprisonment. The fragments were first published in 1908 in Methuen's \"Collected Works\", along with an introduction by Robbie Ross which explained its intervening history:\n\n\"At the time of Wilde’s trial the nearly completed drama was entrusted to Mrs. Leverson, who in 1897 went to Paris on purpose to restore it to the author. Wilde immediately left the manuscript in a cab...All my attempts to recover the lost work failed. The passages here reprinted are from some odd leaves of a first draft. The play is of course not unlike Salome, though it was written in English. It expanded Wilde’s favourite theory that when you convert some one to an idea, you lose your faith in it; the same motive runs through Mr. W. H.\"\n\nWilde considered revisiting the play in 1897 after his release from prison, but he lacked motivation for literary work in this period.\n\nWilde's own opinion of the play changed over time. During his imprisonment, it was much on his mind, describing it as one among his \"beautiful coloured, musical things\". However, Ross describes his changed mood after his release:\n\"A few days later he laughingly informed me of the loss, and added that a cab was a very proper place for it. I have explained elsewhere that he looked on his plays with disdain in his last years, though he was always full of schemes for writing others.\"\n\nBiographer Richard Ellmann identifies a similarity to Anatole France's novel \"Thaïs\"; Rita Severi also suggests Saint Pelagia, Saint Mary the Egyptian, Mary Magdalen and the Queen of Sheba as models for Myrrhina, and the Indian legend of Barlaam and Josaphat as inspiration for the plot.\n\nSeveri has compared the exploration of the spiritual and sensual life to a similar thread running throughout \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\", \"Salome\" and \"The Fisherman and his Soul\", identifying it as part of \"Wilde’s Parisian, Symbolist phase\":\n\"La Sainte Courtisane is neither a comedy nor a parody. It contains all the elements of the Symbolist Mystery play: symbolic characters that embody ethical, philosophical, spiritual ideas; one main action (drama) that unfolds in three macro-sequences or tableaux and around which the whole play revolves, in some unidentified space (the desert) and time ( a timeless past); highly metaphoric, repetitive language that reverberates in the rhythmic dialogue like a music of words or, as Wilde had said of the language of Salomé, like the sound of a pearl that falls on a silver basin. Elaborate speech patterns that unfold a double meaning, an allegory.\"\nChristopher S. Nassaar described the play as \"a minor \"jeux d’esprit\"\", and places it in context as a \"bridge\" between \"Salome\" and \"The Importance of Being Earnest\".\n\nRudolf Wagner-Régeny set the fragments to music in 1930 for 4 speakers and chamber orchestra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33801114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33801114", "title": "Ludvig Ludvigsen Daae", "text": "Ludvig Ludvigsen Daae\n\nLudvig Ludvigsen Daae (7 December 1834 – 17 March 1910) was a Norwegian historian and author. He was a professor at the University of Oslo for more than thirty years.\nHe was born in Aremark in Østfold and died in Kristiania (now Oslo), Norway. He was the son of Ludvig Daae (1806–35) and Sara Jessine Louise Brock (1811–91). He was a student at Christiania Cathedral School and graduated during 1852. He studied classical philology at the University of Kristiania (now University of Oslo) and graduated in 1859.\n\nDaae was assigned as a professor at the University of Kristiania for more than thirty years from 1876 to 1910. Daae was appointed professor of history at the University after Oluf Rygh had transferred to a professorship in archeology. At the time of his retirement his successor as a professor of history was Halvdan Koht.\n\nDaae published a large number of historic works and was also a frequent contributor to newspapers. Among his other works in 1880 he wrote a biography of Ludvig Holberg and in 1899 he published an edition of Claus Pavels diaries from the period 1817 to 1822. He was decorated Commander, Second Class of the Order of St. Olav in 1905. He was a Knight of the Danish Order of Dannebrog and of the Swedish Order of the Polar Star.\n\nLudvig Daae wrote his personal memoirs in 1888-93 and in 1901. In 1944, Wilhelm Munthe published \"Professor Ludvig Daae : en minnebok\" (Oslo: Cammermeyer, 1944). In 2003, Daae's great-grandson, Nicolay Heinrich Knudtzon, edited and published an edition of Daae's memoirs. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "54699037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54699037", "title": "Matteo Camera", "text": "Matteo Camera\n\nMatteo Camera (Amalfi, 20 November 1820 – Salerno, 2 December 1891) was an Italian historian and numismatist.\n\nHe primarily published works about history of Southern Italy and the town of Amalfi.\n\n"}
{"id": "18600916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18600916", "title": "Moses B. Cotsworth", "text": "Moses B. Cotsworth\n\nMoses Bruine Cotsworth (Willitoft, Yorks 3 December 1859 - Vancouver 4 June 1943) was a British accountant, business analyst, and calendar reformer.\n\nHe started his career in a variety of companies where his analytical skills were valuable. Based on his work at the North Eastern Railway Company, he published a book on railway rates. In 1907, he was chosen to chair a commission to reorganize the British Columbia civil service.\n\nHis interest in calendar reform began when he was working at a railroad company. He found that monthly accounting was greatly complicated by the fact that months did not divide evenly into weeks. He devised what is now known as the International Fixed Calendar, a solar calendar in which each of 13 months has 28 days. In 1922, he founded the International Fixed Calendar League in an effort to gain adoption of his calendar by businesses and government. American entrepreneur George Eastman adopted the calendar for use in his Eastman Kodak Company, where it was used from 1928 to 1982. \n\nLater in life Cotsworth moved to British Columbia. He died in Vancouver.\n\nCotsworth was elected as a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, of the Royal Statistical Society, and of the Geological Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "877353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=877353", "title": "OPV AIDS hypothesis", "text": "OPV AIDS hypothesis\n\nThe oral polio vaccine (OPV) AIDS hypothesis posits that the AIDS pandemic originated from live polio vaccines prepared in chimpanzee tissue cultures and then administered to up to one million Africans between 1957 and 1960 in experimental mass vaccination campaigns.\n\nData analyses in molecular biology and phylogenetic studies contradict the OPV AIDS hypothesis; consequently, scientific consensus regards the hypothesis as disproven. The journal \"Nature\" has described the hypothesis as \"refuted\".\n\nTwo vaccines are used throughout the world to combat poliomyelitis. The first polio vaccine, developed by Jonas Salk, is an \"inactivated poliovirus vaccine\" (IPV), consisting of a mixture of three wild, virulent strains of poliovirus, grown in a type of monkey kidney tissue culture (Vero cell line), and made noninfectious by formalin treatment. The second vaccine, an \"oral polio vaccine\" (OPV), is a live-attenuated vaccine, produced by the passage of the virus through non-human cells at a sub-physiological temperature. The passage of virus produces mutations within the viral genome, and hinders the virus's ability to infect nervous tissue.\n\nBoth vaccines have been used for decades to induce immunity to polio, and to stop the spread of the infection. However, OPV has several advantages; because the vaccine is introduced in the gastrointestinal tract, the primary site of poliovirus infection and replication, it closely mimics a natural infection. OPV also provides long lasting immunity, and stimulates the production of polio neutralizing antibodies in the pharynx and gut. Hence, OPV not only prevents paralytic poliomyelitis, but also, when given in sufficient doses, can stop a threatening epidemic. Other benefits of OPV include ease of administration, low cost and suitability for mass vaccination campaigns.\n\nOral polio vaccines were developed in the late 1950s by several groups, including those led by Albert Sabin, Hilary Koprowski and H. R. Cox. A poliovirus type 1 strain called SM was reported in 1954. A less virulent version of the SM strain was reported by Koprowski in 1957. The name of the vaccine strain was \"CHAT\" after \"Charlton\", the name of the child who was the donor of the precursor virus. The Sabin, Koprowski and Cox vaccines were clinically tested in millions of individuals and found to be safe and effective. Because monkey trials found fewer side effects with the Sabin vaccine, in the early 1960s, the Sabin vaccine was licensed in the USA and its use supported by the World Health Organization.\n\nBetween 1957 and 1960, Koprowski's vaccine was administered to roughly one million people in the Belgian territories, now the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi. In 1960, Koprowski wrote in the \"British Medical Journal\", \"The Belgian Congo trials have enlarged considerably and ... more vaccination campaigns organized in several provinces of the Belgian Congo are raising the number of vaccinated individuals into the millions.\"\"(p. 90)\" Koprowski and his group also published a series of detailed reports on the vaccination of 76,000 children under the age of 5 (and European adults) in the area of Leopoldville (now Kinshasa) in Belgian Congo from 1958–1960; these reports begin with an overview, next a review of safety and efficacy, then a 21-month follow-up and final report.\n\nIn the 1950s, before dangers inherent to the process were well controlled, seed stocks of vaccines were occasionally transported to distant regions, then standard tissue culture methods were used to amplify the virus at local production facilities. Biologic products, chiefly kidney cells for cultures and blood serum for media, were sometimes harvested from local primates and used in the production process if wild or captive populations of appropriate species were available. In South Africa, African green monkey tissue was used to amplify the Sabin vaccine. In French West Africa and Equatorial Africa, baboons were used to amplify a vaccine from the Pasteur Institute. In Poland, the CHAT vaccine was amplified using Asian macaques.\n\nIn 1987, Blaine Elswood contacted journalist Tom Curtis about a \"bombshell story\" on OPV and AIDS. Curtis published an article on the OPV AIDS hypothesis in \"Rolling Stone\" in 1992. In response, Hilary Koprowski sued \"Rolling Stone\" and Tom Curtis for defamation. The magazine published a clarification which praised Koprowski and stated:\n\nA few scientists, notably the biologist W. D. Hamilton, thought the hypothesis required serious investigation, but they received little support from the scientific community.\n\nJournalist Edward Hooper detailed the hypothesis in his 1999 book, \"The River\". Hooper further expanded on his allegations in a 2000 meeting in London, at the Royal Society, although these claims were later rebutted by some of the scientists who were present at the meeting. In 2001, Hilary Koprowski responded by making a detailed rebuttal of the points made in the book, also in a talk to the Royal Society. In 2004, the \"Origin of Aids\", a French TV documentary strongly supportive of the OPV hypothesis, appeared on several television stations around the world.\n\nIn 2003, Hooper published additional statements that he believed supported his hypothesis in an article in the \"London Review of Books\". These included accounts of an interview with Jacques Kanyama, a virology technician at the lab in Stanleyville (the Laboratoire Médical de Stanleyville (LMS)) responsible for testing the CHAT vaccine and performing the initial set of vaccinations, who was reported to have said that batches of CHAT had been produced on site by Paul Osterrieth. In addition, Philip Elebe, a microbiology technician, was claimed to have said that tissue cultures were being produced from Lindi chimpanzees. Osterrieth has denied these claims and stated that this work would not have been possible in this laboratory, stating that:\n\nIn his book, Hooper also stated that Gaston Ninane was involved in using chimpanzee cells to produce vaccine in Congo. Ninane responded to this allegation by stating that he could \"categorically deny\" ever having tried to make tissue cultures from chimpanzee cells. The people involved in vaccine production and distribution from America state that no vaccine was prepared locally in Congo and that only the CHAT vaccine from America was used. Barbara Cohen, the technician who was responsible for running the American laboratory that produced this vaccine stated:\n\nThe OPV AIDS hypothesis has been examined and rejected by the scientific and medical communities as being unsupported or directly contradicted by available data, and inconsistent with HIV epidemiology.\n\nIn an August 1992 letter published in \"Science\", Koprowski repudiated the OPV AIDS hypothesis, pointing to multiple errors of fact in its assertions. In October 1992, \"Science\" ran a story titled \"Panel Nixes Congo Vaccine as AIDS source,\" describing the findings of an independent panel which found each proposed step in the OPV-AIDS hypothesis \"problematic\". The story concluded:\nThe oldest confirmed sample of human tissue that shows the presence of HIV-1 is an archival sample of plasma collected from an anonymous donor in the city of Leopoldville, Belgian Congo (now Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo) in 1959 and was found with retrospective genetic analysis to be most closely related to subtype D strains. In 2008, partial HIV viral sequences were identified from a specimen of lymph node collected from an adult female, also in Kinshasa, in 1960. This specimen, named DRC60, was around 88% similar to ZR59, but was found to be most closely related to subtype A HIV-1 strains. These specimens are significant not only because they are the oldest specimens of the virus known to cause AIDS, but because they show that the virus already had an extensive amount of genetic diversity in 1960.\n\nIn 2000, the Royal Society held a meeting to discuss data on the origin of AIDS; the OPV AIDS hypothesis was a central topic of discussion. At this meeting, three independent labs released the results of tests on the remaining stocks of Koprowski's vaccine, which Edward Hooper had demanded in \"The River\". The tests confirmed Koprowski's contention that his vaccine was made from monkey, rather than chimpanzee, kidney, and found no evidence of SIV or HIV contamination. Additional epidemiologic and phylogenetic data was presented at the conference which undermined other aspects of the OPV AIDS hypothesis. According to a report in \"Science\", Hooper \"did not challenge the results; he simply dismissed them.\"\n\nIn 2001, three articles published in \"Nature\" examined various aspects of the OPV-AIDS hypothesis, as did an article published in \"Science\". In every case, the studies' findings argued strongly against any link between the polio vaccine and AIDS. The evidence cited included multiple independent studies that dated the introduction of HIV-1 to humans as occurring between 1915 and 1941, probably in the 1930s. These results were confirmed by a later study using samples from the 1960s that also found that the epidemic began between 1908 and 1930, and a study that showed that although recombination amongst viruses makes dating less precise, it does not significantly bias estimates in either direction (it does not introduce a systematic error).\n\nThe author of one of the studies, evolutionary biologist Edward Holmes of Oxford University, commented in light of the new evidence: \"Hooper's evidence was always flimsy, and now it's untenable. It's time to move on.\" An accompanying editorial in \"Nature\" concluded:\nThe possibility that chimpanzees found near Kisangani in the Democratic Republic of Congo (formerly Stanleyville) were, indirectly, the true source of HIV-1 was directly addressed in a 2004 study published in \"Nature\". Here, the authors found that while SIV was present in chimpanzees in the area, the strain of SIV infecting these chimpanzees was phylogenetically distinct from all strains of HIV, providing direct evidence that these particular chimps were not the source of HIV in humans.\n\nRumours that polio vaccines are unsafe disrupted the longstanding effort of the WHO and UN to achieve poliomyelitis eradication worldwide through use of the oral polio vaccine of Albert Sabin, which is thought to be safe and effective by virtually all medical authorities. If this long-term public-health goal could be achieved, poliomyelitis would follow smallpox as the second eradicated infectious human disease. The OPV AIDS hypothesis relates only to the historical origin of AIDS, and its proponents have accepted the safety of the modern polio vaccines, but rumors based on a misunderstanding of the hypothesis exist, and those rumors are blamed in part for the recent failure to eliminate polio in Nigeria.\n\nBy 2003, cases of poliomyelitis had been reduced to just a small number in isolated regions of West Africa, with sporadic cases elsewhere. However, the disease has since resurged in Nigeria and in several other nations of Africa, which epidemiologists trace to refusals by certain local populations to allow their children to be administered the Sabin oral vaccine. The expressed concerns of local populations often relate to fears that the vaccine might induce sterility, and it seems that debate over the OPV-AIDS hypothesis has fueled additional fears. Since 2003, these fears have spread among some in the Muslim community, with Datti Ahmed, of the Supreme Council for Sharia in Nigeria stating that:\n\nPolio has also resurged in areas of Pakistan, India and Bangladesh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47946871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47946871", "title": "Old Rainworth Fort", "text": "Old Rainworth Fort\n\nOld Rainworth Fort a.k.a. Old Rainworth Stone Store a.k.a.Rainworth Head Station Store is a fortified Blockhouse 10 km south of the town of Springsure, Queensland. The fort has been registered with the Queensland heritage register. It served as a store for the local community, and was built from local stone in case of an attack by local Aboriginal tribes during the time that would later be called the Australian frontier wars.\n\nThe fort was built on the Rainworth Station in 1862 to act as a store for food for all of the staff and families of the 100,000-acre cattle property. The store was built out of stone in order to reduce threats of fire and to act as a safe haven during an Aboriginal raid. The fort was constructed in retaliation of the Wills family massacre, more commonly known as the Wills Tragedy that took place to the north of Springsure, in the Minerva hills.\n\nThe museum complex contains the Fort in its original condition, the relocated Cairdbeign homestead and the original school building from the 1800s. The museum contains many period pieces and artefacts of local importance. \nAccording to the current caretakers of the fort, Colleen McLaughlin and her sister Lorna Smith, the future of the Historic site is unsure:\n\n"}
{"id": "49204133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49204133", "title": "Othon Riemann", "text": "Othon Riemann\n\nOthon Riemann (13 June 1853, in Nancy – 16 August 1891, in Interlaken) was a French classical philologist and archaeologist.\n\nHe studied at the École Normale Supérieure (ENS) in Paris, and in 1874 became a member of the École française d'Athènes (French School of Athens). While a member, he visited various libraries in Italy, during which he collated manuscripts of Livy. He then conducted archaeological research of the Ionian Islands, about which, he produced a massive report. After returning to France, he taught classes in grammar in his hometown of Nancy.\n\nIn 1880 he became an editor of the \"Revue de philologie, de littérature et d'histoire anciennes\", and during the following year, attained the chair of grammar at the École Normale Supérieure. From 1885 he taught classes at the École pratique des hautes études, while still maintaining his post at the ENS. He died on August 16, 1871 (age 38) from the effects of a fall on the Morgenberg, located near Interlaken, Switzerland.\n\n"}
{"id": "7332998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7332998", "title": "Paul Groussac", "text": "Paul Groussac\n\nPaul-François Groussac (February 15, 1848 – June 27, 1929) was a French-born Argentine writer, literary critic, historian, and librarian. He was born in Toulouse to Catherine Deval and Pierre Groussac, the scion of an old Languedocian family.\n\nAs a young man, Groussac studied classics in his native Toulouse. He was admitted to the École Navale in 1865, but chose not to pursue a naval career. The next year he moved to Buenos Aires, which would remain his home for the rest of his life. Over the next seventeen years, he worked as a professor, directed the Escuela Normal de Tucumán, and served as inspector general of the national colleges. In 1883 he made a trip to France. After his return, in 1885, he was designated inspector of education and head of the Biblioteca Nacional. He would hold this position until his death forty-four years later.\n\nHis most notable works are \"La Biblioteca\" (1896) and \"Anales de la Biblioteca\" (1900), which were anthologies of critical essays, historical accounts of the library, and documents pertaining to the history of the Río de la Plata region. As director of the literary journal \"SudAmérica\", Groussac became a central figure in the Argentine literary world. His works, including \"Studies of Argentine History\", \"Historical Essay on Tucumán\", and \"Mendoza and Garay\", are characterized by their factual richness, vivid depiction of characters and their environment, and their lucid and conscientious style. Groussac's other main works include \"Forbidden Fruit\", \"Argentine Tales\", \"The Divisa Punzó\", and \"Literary Criticism and the Malvinas Islands\".\n\nGroussac's posthumous reputation was bolstered by his frequent mention in the critical essays of fellow Argentine librarian Jorge Luis Borges, who also wrote his obituary. In his autobiographical essay \"La Ceguera\" (\"Blindness\"), Borges spoke of Groussac's influence on Alfonso Reyes, whom he held in great esteem: \"Alfonso Reyes, the greatest prose writer in the Spanish language of any age, said to me: 'Groussac, who was French, taught me how to write in Spanish'\". (\"Siete Noches\". Fondo de Cultura Economica, Mexico, 1980, p. 156.) As a critic, he was notorious for his ruthless and intractable temperament, and for his withering mordancy. Borges analyzed some of Groussac's literary insults in his 1933 \"Sur\" essay \"Arte de injuriar\" (translated as \"The Art of Verbal Abuse\").\n\nGroussac and Borges shared a few biographical parallels as well: between 1955 and 1973, Borges occupied Groussac's old position at the Biblioteca Nacional. Both men also suffered from poor eyesight, and both were completely blind by the end of their respective tenures as chief librarian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "147615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147615", "title": "Raphael Holinshed", "text": "Raphael Holinshed\n\nRaphael Holinshed (–1580?) was an English chronicler, whose work, commonly known as \"Holinshed's Chronicles\" (first edition 1577; second edition 1587), was one of the major sources used by William Shakespeare for a number of his plays.\nHolinshed was the son of Ralph Holinshed or Hollingshead of Cophurst in the township of Sutton Downes (near Pott Shrigley), Cheshire. He lived in London, where he worked as a translator for the printer Reyner Wolfe. Wolfe gave him the project of compiling a world history from the Flood to the reign of Queen Elizabeth. This ambitious project was never finished, but one portion was published in 1577 as \"The Chronicles of England, Scotland, and Ireland\". Holinshed was only one contributor to this work; others involved in its production included William Harrison, Richard Stanyhurst, and John Hooker.\n\nShakespeare used the revised second edition of the \"Chronicles\" (published in 1587) as the source for most of his history plays, the plot of \"Macbeth\", and for portions of \"King Lear\" and \"Cymbeline\".\n\nLittle is known of Holinshed's life. There is no source which states his date of birth, for instance. He became known only by the \"Chronicles\", and most of the information we have about him relates to this work. Although Vernon Snow remarks that Holinshed was an experienced Cambridge-educated translator, no other works by Holinshed are available. A few months after the Chronicle had been licensed, Holinshed retired to the countryside near Warwick. He died around 1580 and his will was proved on 24 April 1582. Nothing is known about Holinshed's civil duties, other scholarly achievements or work for the Church.\n\nIn 1548 Reyner Wolfe, a London printer, conceived the idea of creating a \"Universal Cosmography of the whole world, and there with also certain particular histories of every known nation.\" He wanted the work to be printed in English and he wanted maps and illustrations in the book as well. Wolfe acquired many of John Leland's works and with these he constructed chronologies and drew maps that were up to date. When Wolfe realised he could not complete this project on his own, he hired Raphael Holinshed and William Harrison to assist him.\nWolfe died with the work still uncompleted in 1573, and the project, changed to a work about just the British Isles, was run by a consortium of three members of the London stationers. They kept Raphael Holinshed who employed William Harrison, Richard Stanyhurst, Edmund Campion and John Hooker. In 1577 the work was published in two volumes after some censorship by the Privy Council of some of Stanyhurst's contribution on Ireland. The Scottish section is largely a translation of Hector Boece's \"Scotorum Historiae\"\n\nA second edition was issued in 1587, but it contained some passages that were considered offensive to the Queen and her ministers. The pages in question were removed by order of the Privy Council. The missing passages were separately published in 1723, and a complete reprint appeared in 1807.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1343313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343313", "title": "Red Bay, Newfoundland and Labrador", "text": "Red Bay, Newfoundland and Labrador\n\nRed Bay is a fishing village in Labrador, notable as one of the most precious underwater archaeological sites in the Americas. Between 1530 and the early 17th century, it was a major Basque whaling area. Several whaling ships, both large galleons and small \"chalupas\", sunk there, and their discovery led to the designation of Red Bay in 2013 as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nRed Bay is a natural harbour residing in the bay that gives it its name, both names in reference to the red granite cliffs of the region. Because of the sheltered harbour it was used during World War II as a mooring site for naval vessels. In the bay are Penney Island and Saddle Island, which were used by the Basques for their whaling operations. The location of the sunken vessel \"San Juan\" is near Saddle Island.\n\nBetween 1550 and the early 17th century, Red Bay, known as \"Balea Baya\" (Whale Bay), was a centre for Basque whaling operations. Sailors from southern France and northern Spain sent 15 whaleships and 600 men a season to the remote outpost on the Strait of Belle Isle to try to catch the right whale and bowhead whales that populated the waters there, according to Memorial University of Newfoundland.\n\nIn 1565, a ship—believed to be \"San Juan\"—sank in the waters off Red Bay during a storm. Other, smaller vessels, such as chalupas, have also been recovered from the waters.\n\nAnother galleon was found 25–35 feet below water in 2004. It was the fourth trans-oceanic ship to have been found in the area.\n\nA cemetery on nearby Saddle Island holds the remains of 140 whalers. Many of the people buried there are thought to have died from drowning and exposure.\n\nHistorians believe that a decline in whale stocks eventually led to the abandonment of the whaling stations in Red Bay. Today, an interpretive centre in Red Bay explains the history to visitors.\n\nLocal legends of Red Bay make reference to a hidden treasure buried in a body of water known as \"Pond on the Hill\" at the foot of Tracey Hill by the infamous pirate Captain William Kidd. An attempt was made to find the treasure by residents of Carrol Cove by draining the pond. The attempt had failed.\n\nRed Bay has been designated a National Historic Site of Canada since 1979, and since 2013 it is one of Canada's UNESCO World Heritage Sites.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2652072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2652072", "title": "Regius Professor of History (Oxford)", "text": "Regius Professor of History (Oxford)\n\nThe Regius Professor of History at the University of Oxford is a long-established professorial position. Holders of the title have often been medieval historians. The first appointment was made in 1724. The term \"Regius\" reflects the origins of the post as a royal appointment, itself a recognition of the important influence of history.\n\nThe Regius Professor of History is \"ex officio\" a Fellow of Oriel College. Professor Lyndal Roper has held the Regius Professorship since 2011, the first woman (and the first Australian) to have done so.\n\n"}
{"id": "36999519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36999519", "title": "René Sédillot", "text": "René Sédillot\n\nRené Sédillot (2 November 1906 – 21 October 1999) was a French journalist and historian.\n\nBorn in Orléans, Sédillot was educated in Paris. He worked for the financial press, joining \" L'Information Boursiere\" in 1928 and becoming editor until the paper folded in 1940. In 1945 he became editor of the weekly \"La Vie francaise\" (later renamed \"La Vie financiere\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6045326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6045326", "title": "Simone and Cino Del Duca Foundation", "text": "Simone and Cino Del Duca Foundation\n\nThe Simone and Cino Del Duca Foundation is a charitable foundation based in Paris, France. It was established in 1975 by Simone Del Duca (1912–2004), widow of publishing magnate Cino Del Duca (1899–1967). The Foundation took over responsibility for the existing Prix mondial Cino Del Duca created by Madame Del Duca in 1969.\n\nThe Foundation has been a substantial and important contributor to the arts in France and humanities worldwide. It has provided very significant support for scientific research, in particular for biomedical research and including oncology, biochemistry, and molecular genetics. The Foundation has funded a Fellowship for such things as a Postdoctoral for Studies in Neurobiology and funding for breast cancer research for organizations such as the Susan G. Komen for the Cure. As well, the \"Simone and Cino Del Duca Foundation on Cancer Pharmacotherapy\" paid for and published the 1983 book: \"Current Drugs And Methods of Cancer Treatment\" (Masson Pub. USA )\n\nThe Simone and Cino Del Duca Foundation provides two major arts prizes through the French Académie des Beaux-Arts. A prize in music is awarded annually plus one that is given on an alternating basis to painters and sculptors. In addition, the Foundation helped fund the major restoration of the collections of the Musée Condé at Chantilly, Oise.\n\nThe Foundation also gives a prize in archaeology, intended to help with archaeology projects in France or abroad.\n\nFollowing the death of Madame Del Duca in 2004, administration of the Foundation has been assumed by the Institut de France\n\n"}
{"id": "17433051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17433051", "title": "Stavro Skëndi", "text": "Stavro Skëndi\n\nStavro Skendi (born 1905 in Korçë; d. August 17, 1989 in Long Island) was an Albanian American linguist and historian.\n\nSkendi studied at Robert College in Istanbul, graduating in 1928. He continued his studies at the University of Geneva and returned to Albania, where he taught in Commerce schools. During World War II he fought on the side of the Albanian National Front. In 1946, he emigrated to the U.S. He enrolled at Columbia University as a Ph.D. candidate, graduating in 1951. He joined the faculty as a lecturer in a program on East-Central Europe, specializing in Balkan language studies. He succeeded Nelo Drizari as lecturer and taught courses in Albanian and South Slavic at Columbia from 1954 until his retirement in 1972. Throughout this period, he cultivated his interest in Albanian studies, writing and publishing frequently.\n\nSkendi was a Guggenheim Fellow and a Visiting Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "36301344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36301344", "title": "Susan Hogan (historian)", "text": "Susan Hogan (historian)\n\nSusan Hogan (born 1961) is a British cultural historian. Hogan is Professor in Cultural Studies & Art Therapy at the University of Derby, where she facilitates the closed-group component of the art therapy training, and co-ordinates the final thesis or research project component of a number of programmes.\n\nHogan married Philip Douglas in 1988, and then divorced in 1998. Hogan's mother-in-law was noted anthropologist Dame Mary Douglas. She has two children: Emile and Eilish.\n\nHogan attended a school based on the doctrine of A.S. Neill’s Summerhill School. This experience, coupled with the anthropological work of her mother-in-law, influenced her work.\n\nShe started her Ph.D. at the University of Sydney in art history and finished it in cultural history at the Thomas Reid Institute of the University of Aberdeen, where G.S. Rousseau served as her primary supervisor.\n\nShe has taught in a number of universities including the University of New South Wales and University of Derby.\n\nHogan's work has focused on therapy with: women of ageing and women who have recently given birth, offering art therapy groups to give support to woman and an opportunity for them to explore their changed sense of self-identity and sexuality as a result of pregnancy and motherhood. Her published work is significant in its sustained challenge to the use of reductive psychology and for bringing anthropological and sociological ideas to bear on the subject of art therapy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "169398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169398", "title": "The Atomic Cafe", "text": "The Atomic Cafe\n\nThe Atomic Cafe is a 1982 American documentary film produced and directed by Jayne Loader, Kevin Rafferty and Pierce Rafferty.\n\nIn 2016, the film was selected for preservation in the United States' National Film Registry by the Library of Congress, being deemed \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\".\n\nThe film covers the beginnings of the era of nuclear warfare, created from a broad range of archival material from the 1940s, 1950s and early 1960s including newsreel clips, television news footage, U.S. government-produced films (including military training films), advertisements, television and radio programs. News footage reflected the prevailing understanding of the media and public.\n\nThough the topic of atomic holocaust is a grave matter, \"The Atomic Cafe\" approaches it with black humor. Much of the humor derives from the modern audience's reaction to the old training films, such as the \"Duck and Cover\" film shown in schools. A quote to illustrate what can be perceived as black humor, culled from the movie: \"Viewed from a safe distance, the atomic bomb is one of the most beautiful sights ever seen by man,\" a U.S. Army training film declares.\n\n\"The Atomic Cafe\" was released at the height of nostalgia and cynicism in America. By 1982, Americans lost much of their faith in their government following the Vietnam War, the Watergate scandal, and the seemingly never-ending arms race with the Soviet Union. \"The Atomic Cafe\" reflects and reinforces this idea as it exposes how the atomic bomb's dangers were downplayed (President Truman calls the atomic bomb a gift from God) and how the government used films to shape public opinion.\n\n\"The Atomic Cafe\" was also released during the Reagan Administration's forced civil defense revival. Barry Posen and Stephen Van Evera explain this revival in their article \"Defense Policy and the Reagan Administration: Departure from Containment\" published in \"International Security\". They argue that in 1981–82 the Reagan Administration was moving from an essentially defensive grand strategy of containment to a more offensive strategy. Due to the greater demands of its more offensive strategy \"the Reagan Administration ... proposed the biggest military buildup since the Korean War.\" Of key relevance to \"The Atomic Cafe\", the Reagan move toward offense included the adoption of a more aggressive nuclear strategy that required a large U.S. nuclear buildup. Containment only required that U.S. strategic nuclear forces be capable of one mission: inflicting unacceptable damage on the Soviet Union even after absorbing an all-out Soviet surprise attack. To this \"assured destruction\" mission the Reagan administration added a second \"counterforce\" mission, which required the capacity to launch a nuclear first strike against Soviet strategic nuclear forces that would leave the Soviets unable to inflict unacceptable damage on the U.S. in retaliation. The U.S. had always invested in counterforce but the Reagan administration put even greater emphasis on it. The counterforce mission was far more demanding than the assured destruction mission, and required a vast expansion of U.S. nuclear forces to fulfill. Civil defense was a component of a counterforce strategy, as it reduced Soviet retaliatory capacity, hence civil defense was a candidate for more spending under Reagan's counterforce nuclear strategy. Posen and Van Evera argue that this counterforce strategy was a warrant for an open-ended U.S. nuclear buildup.\n\nBob Mielke, in \"Rhetoric and Ideology in the Nuclear Test Documentary\" (\"Film Quarterly\") discusses the release of \"The Atomic Cafe\": \"This satire feature was released at the height of the nuclear freeze movement (which was in turn responding to the Reagan administration's surreal handling of the arms race.)\"\n\nPatricia Aufderheide, in \"Documentary Film : A Very Short Introduction\" touches on the significance of \"The Atomic Cafe\" as a window into the past of government propaganda and disinformation during the years following the advent of the Atomic Bomb. \"Propaganda, also known as disinformation, public diplomacy, and strategic communication, continues to be an important tool for governments. But stand-alone documentary is no longer an important part of public relations campaigns aimed at the general public.\"\n\n\"The Atomic Cafe\" was produced over a five-year period through the collaborative efforts of three directors: Jayne Loader and brothers Kevin and Pierce Rafferty. For this film, the Rafferty brothers and Loader formed a production company called The Archives Project. The filmmakers opted not to use narration. Instead, they deployed carefully constructed sequences of film clips to make their points. Jayne Loader has referred to \"The Atomic Cafe\" as \"compilation verite\": a compilation film with no \"Voice of God\" narration and no new footage added by the filmmakers. The soundtrack utilizes atomic-themed songs from the Cold War era to underscore the themes of the film.\n\nThe film cost $300,000 to make. The group did receive some financial support from outside sources, including the Film Fund, a New York City based non-profit. Grants comprised a nominal amount of the team's budget, and the film was largely funded by the filmmakers themselves. Jayne Loader stated in an interview, \"Had we relied on grants, we would have starved\" Pierce Rafferty helped to support the team and the film financially by working as a consultant and researcher on several other documentary films including \"El Salvador—Another Vietnam\", \"With Babies and Banners\", and \"The Life and Times of Rosie the Riveter\". The Rafferty brothers had also received an inheritance that they used to support the team during the five years it took to make the film. About 75% of the film is made up of government materials that were in the public domain. Though they could use those public domain materials for free, they had to make copies of the films at their own expense. This along with the newsreel and commercial stock footage that comprises the other 25% of the film (along with the music royalties) represents the bulk of the trio's expenditures.\n\nThe film was released on March 17, 1982 in New York, New York. In August 1982, a tie-in companion book of the same name, written by Kevin Rafferty, Jayne Loader and Pierce Rafferty was released by Bantam Books. A 4K digital restoration of the film premiered at SXSW in 2018.\n\nThe 20th Anniversary Edition of the film was released in DVD format in Region 1 on March 26, 2002 by New Video Group. The 4K restored version will be released on Blu-ray December 4, 2018 by Kino Lorber.\n\nIn 1995, \"Jayne Loader's\" \"Public Shelter\", an educational CD-ROM and Website\"--\"with clips from \"The Atomic Cafe\", plus additional material from declassified films, audio, photographs, and text files that archive the history, technology, and culture of the Nuclear Age—was released by EJL Productions, a company formed by Jayne Loader and her first husband, Eric Schwaab. Though it garnered positive national reviews and awards, the self-distributed \"Public Shelter\" CD-ROM sold only 500 copies and failed to find a national publisher. Loader and Schwaab divorced. The Public Shelter website folded in 1999.\n\nWhen \"The Atomic Cafe\" was released, film critic Roger Ebert discussed the style and methods the filmmakers used, writing, \"The makers of \"The Atomic Cafe\" sifted through thousands of feet of Army films, newsreels, government propaganda films and old television broadcasts to come up with the material in their film, which is presented without any narration, as a record of some of the ways in which the bomb entered American folklore. There are songs, speeches politicians, and frightening documentary footage of guinea-pig American troops shielding themselves from an atomic blast and then exposing themselves to radiation neither they nor their officers understood.\"\n\nCritic Vincent Canby of the \"New York Times\" praised the film, calling the film \"a devastating collage-film that examines official and unofficial United States attitudes toward the atomic age\" and a film that \"deserves national attention.\" Canby was so taken by \"The Atomic Cafe\" that he mentioned it in a subsequent articles—comparing it, favorably, to the blockbuster \"Porky's\".\n\nMore recently, critic Glenn Erickson discussed the editorial message of the film's producers: \"The makers of \"The Atomic Cafe\" clearly have a message to get across, and to achieve that goal they use the inherent absurdity of their source material in creative ways. But they're careful to make sure they leave them essentially untransformed. When we see Nixon and J. Edgar Hoover posing with a strip of microfilm, we know we're watching a newsreel. The content isn't cheated. Except in wrapup montages, narration from one source isn't used over another. When raw footage is available, candid moments are seen of speechmakers (including President Truman) when they don't know the cameras are rolling. Caught laughing incongruously before a solemn report on an atom threat, Truman comes off not as callous, but human.\"\n\nThe review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reported that 100% of critics gave the film a positive review, based on 14 reviews.\"\n\nDeirdre Boyle, an Associate Professor and Academic Coordinator of the Graduate Certificate in Documentary Media Studies at The New School and an author of \"Subject to Change: Guerrilla Television Revisited\", claimed that \"By compiling propaganda or fictions denying 'nuclear-truth', \"The\" \"Atomic Cafe\" reveals the American public's lack of resistance to the fear generated by the government propaganda films and the misinformation they generated. Whether Americans of the time lacked the ability to resist or reject this misinformation about the atomic bomb is a debatable truth.\"\n\nIt is referred to as a both a \"mockumentary\" and a documentary by \"Horror View\", which likewise makes parallels between it and the surrealist humor and cynicism found in \"Dr. Strangelove\". The Oxford Handbook of Science Fiction said it was, in quotes, a \"mockumentary\" from its editing and called it, \"The most powerful satire of the official treatments of the atomic age\".\n\n\n\nA vinyl LP record of \"The Atomic Cafe\" soundtrack was released in 1982 by Rounder Records. Some of the credits for the record include: co-produced by Charles Wolfe, The Archives Project (Jayne Loader, Kevin Rafferty and Pierce Rafferty), album cover artwork by Dennis Pohl, cover design by Mel Green, and booklet text by Charles Wolfe.\n\n\n\nThe Internet Movie Database (IMDB) lists the following additional songs on the soundtrack of The Atomic Cafe:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12835568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12835568", "title": "Theatre practitioner", "text": "Theatre practitioner\n\nTheatre practitioner is a modern term to describe someone who both creates theatrical performances and who produces a theoretical discourse that informs his or her practical work. A theatre practitioner may be a director, a dramatist, an actor, or—characteristically—often a combination of these traditionally-separate roles. \"Theatre practice\" describes the collective work that various theatre practitioners do.\n\nThe term is not ordinarily applied to theatre-makers prior to the rise of modernism in the theatre, instead describing theatre praxis from Stanislavski's development of his 'system', through Meyerhold's biomechanics, Antonin Artaud's Theatre of cruelty, Bertolt Brecht's epic and Jerzy Grotowski's poor theatre, down to the present day, with contemporary theatre practitioners including Augusto Boal with his Theatre of the Oppressed, Dario Fo's popular theatre, Eugenio Barba's theatre anthropology and Anne Bogart's viewpoints.\n\n"}
{"id": "23175029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23175029", "title": "Timeline of political parties in the United Kingdom", "text": "Timeline of political parties in the United Kingdom\n\nThe following timeline of political parties in the United Kingdom shows the period during which various parties were active, from their date of establishment to their date of dissolution. Defunct parties are shown in green, and currently active parties are shown in pink. An asterisk or dagger indicates that the exact year of establishment or dissolution, respectively, is not certain. Where a party has changed its name over the course of its existence, only the most recent name is given.\n\n"}
{"id": "40102905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40102905", "title": "Tom Segev", "text": "Tom Segev\n\nTom Segev (; born March 1, 1945) is an Israeli historian, author and journalist. He is associated with Israel's New Historians, a group challenging many of the country's traditional narratives.\n\nTom Segev was born in Jerusalem to parents who had fled Nazi Germany in 1933. He earned a BA in history and political science from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and a PhD in history from Boston University in the 1970s.\n\nSegev worked during the 1970s as a correspondent for Maariv in Bonn. He was a visiting professor at Rutgers University (2001–2002), the University of California at Berkeley (2007) and Northeastern University, where he taught a course on Holocaust denial. He writes a weekly column for the newspaper \"Haaretz\". His books have appeared in fourteen languages.\n\nIn \"The Seventh Million: The Israelis and the Holocaust\" (1993), Segev explores the decisive impact of the Holocaust on the identity, ideology and politics of Israel. Although controversial, it was praised by Elie Wiesel in the \"Los Angeles Times\" Book Review.\n\nIn \"One Palestine, Complete: Jews and Arabs Under the British Mandate\", a \"New York Times\" Editor's Choice Best Book (2000) and a recipient of the National Jewish Book Award, Segev describes the era of the British Mandate in Palestine (1917–1948). \n\nSegev's history of the social and political background of the Six-Day War, \"1967: Israel, the War, and the Year That Transformed the Middle East\" (2006) states that there was no existential threat to Israel from a military point of view. Segev also doubts that the Arab neighbours would have really attacked Israel. Still, there were large segments of the Israeli population that had a real fear that the Egyptians and Syrians would eliminate them. This would have increased the pressure for the Israeli government in such a way that it opted for a preemptive attack. The attack by the Jordanian army to West Jerusalem would have provided a welcoming reason to invade East Jerusalem, according to Segev. Even though the occupation of East Jerusalem was not politically planned, the author considers it was always desired. In February 2018 Segev published a biography of David Ben-Gurion.\n\nThe book \"Israel, the War, and the Year That Transformed the Middle East\" has been described by the historian Saul Friedländer as \"probably the best book on those most fateful days in the history of Israel\".\n\nEthan Bronner in \"The New York Times Book Review\" wrote: \"It does not tell the whole story of the war, barely focusing on Arab activity... What interests Mr. Segev is Israel: its moods, debates, generation gaps and anxieties\" and that \"You need not agree with Mr. Segev’s conclusions on how things could have been done differently to benefit from his research and narrative. If you plan to read only one book on the 1967 war, this is not it. It is too narrowly focused. At the same time Mr. Segev makes a compelling and fresh case that the war was at least partly a result of a delicate and vulnerable moment in Israeli history\" and that Segev's exploration \"is — while too long — persuasive and engaging\".\n\nL. Carl Brown wrote in \"Foreign Affairs\" \"The author of One Palestine, Complete: Jews and Arabs Under the British Mandate has written another masterful history\" in a review of Segev's book \"1967: Israel, the War, and the Year That Transformed the Middle East\".\n\nWriting in \"International Socialist Review\" (a paper \"dedicated to advancing socialist theory and practice\"), Hadas Thier found the 688-page book \"at times a tediously detailed read with thin analysis\" but called it \"an indispensable contribution\". He summarised the book by saying \"His focus on Israeli archival material should leave no trace of doubt that Israeli leaders knew that the war was not a defensive necessity, that it would be easily won, and that it was fought on the basis of cynical and strategic considerations of the state.\"\n\nFor \"The Washington Post Book World\", Michael Oren, an Israeli politician, historian and author of \"Six Days of War\", gave Segev's \"1967\" a scathing review, writing, \"Laboring to prove his point forces Segev not only to contradict himself but also to commit glaring oversights.\" He also says that \"by disregarding the Arab dynamic and twisting his text to meet a revisionist agenda, he undermines his attempt to reach a deeper understanding of the war. Such an understanding is vital if Arabs and Israelis are to avoid similar clashes in the future and peacefully co-exist.\" (In an interview in the online magazine \"Salon\", Oren subsequently said of Segev (who has a doctorate in history) \"[He] is a journalist. He's not really a trained historian.\")\n\nBenny Morris also criticized the book in a review in \"The New Republic\". Morris writes that he is open to historical revisionism but that Segev's central argument about Israel's internal condition leading up to the war \"is essentially false.\" He adds: \"For Segev, Arab politics and Arab society have no bearing upon the proper understanding of the origins of the war. ... [H]is book points readers and scholars in no worthwhile direction. Its argument is not merely wrong; it also makes a small contribution of its own to the contemporary delegitimation of Israel.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "803262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=803262", "title": "Tom Wills", "text": "Tom Wills\n\nThomas Wentworth Wills (19 August 1835 – 2 May 1880) was a sportsman who is credited with being Australia's first cricketer of significance and a founder of Australian football. Born in the British colony of New South Wales to a wealthy family descended from convicts, Wills grew up in the bush on properties owned by his father, the pastoralist and politician Horatio Wills, in what is now the Australian state of Victoria. He befriended local Aborigines, learning their language and customs. At the age of 14, Wills went to England to attend Rugby School, where he became captain of its cricket team, and played an early version of rugby football. After Rugby, Wills represented the Cambridge University Cricket Club in the annual match against Oxford, and played at first-class level for Kent and the Marylebone Cricket Club. An athletic all-rounder with exceptional bowling skills, he was regarded as one of the finest young cricketers in England.\n\nReturning to Victoria in 1856, Wills achieved Australia-wide stardom as a cricketer, captaining the Victorian team to repeated victories in intercolonial matches. He played for, and was secretary of the Melbourne Cricket Club, but his larrikin streak and defections to rival clubs strained their relationship. In 1858 he called for the formation of a \"foot-ball club\" with a \"code of laws\" to keep cricketers fit during winter. After founding the Melbourne Football Club in 1859, Wills co-wrote the first laws of Australian football. He and his cousin H. C. A. Harrison spearheaded the sport's development as captains, umpires and administrators.\n\nIn 1861, at the height of his fame, Wills joined his father on an eight-month trek into the Queensland outback to establish a family property. Two weeks after their arrival, Wills' father and 18 others were murdered in the largest massacre of settlers by Aborigines in Australian history. Wills survived and resumed playing sport upon his return to Victoria in 1864, and in 1866–67, led an Aboriginal cricket team on an Australian tour as its captain-coach. In a career marked by controversy, Wills challenged cricket's amateur-professional divide, and was frequently accused of bending sporting rules, sometimes to the point of cheating. An admitted \"chucker\", Wills was no-balled out of major cricket in 1872. He failed in an 1876 comeback attempt, by which time he was considered a relic of a bygone era. His remaining years were characterised by social alienation, flights from creditors, and heavy drinking, likely as a means of coping with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms that plagued him after the massacre. In 1880, suffering from delirium tremens, Wills committed suicide by stabbing himself in the heart.\n\nAustralia's first sporting celebrity, Wills fell into obscurity after his death, but has undergone a revival in Australian culture since the 1990s. Today he is described as an archetypal tragic sports hero and as a symbol of reconciliation between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians. Controversy surrounds a theory that Wills incorporated features of an Aboriginal game into early Australian football. According to biographer Greg de Moore, Wills \"stands alone in all his absurdity, his cracked egalitarian heroism and his fatal self-destructiveness—the finest cricketer and footballer of the age\".\n\nWills was born on 19 August 1835 on the Molonglo Plain near modern-day Canberra, in what was the British penal colony of New South Wales, as the elder child of Horatio and Elizabeth (née McGuire) Wills. Tom was a third-generation Australian of convict descent: his mother was born to convicts from Ireland, and his paternal grandfather was Edward Wills, an English highwayman whose death sentence for armed robbery was commuted to transportation, arriving in Botany Bay aboard the \"hell ship\" in 1799. Granted a conditional pardon in 1803, Edward became rich through mercantile activity in Sydney with his free wife Sarah (née Harding). He died in 1811, five months before Horatio's birth, and Sarah remarried to convict George Howe, owner of Australia's first newspaper, \"The Sydney Gazette\". Mainly self-educated, Horatio worked in the \"Gazette\" office from a young age, rising to become editor in 1832, the same year he met Elizabeth, an orphan from Parramatta. They married in December 1833. Seventeen months after his birth, Tom was baptised Thomas Wentworth Wills in St Andrew's, Sydney, after statesman William Wentworth. Drawing on Wentworth's pro-currency writings and the emancipist cause, Horatio, in his nationalist journal \"The Currency Lad\" (1832–33), made the first call for an Australian republic.\nHoratio turned to pastoralism in the mid-1830s and moved with his family to the sheep run Burra Burra on the Molonglo River. Although athletic from an early age, Tom was prone to illness, and at one stage in 1839 his parents \"almost despaired of his recovery\". The following year, in light of explorer Thomas Mitchell's discovery of \"Australia Felix\", the Willses, with shepherds and their families, were among the first settlers of the Grampians in the colony's Port Phillip District (now the state of Victoria). After squatting on Mount William, they moved a few miles north through the foothills of Mount Ararat, named so by Horatio because \"like the Ark, we rested there\". Horatio went through a period of intense religiosity while in the Grampians; at times his diary descends into incantation, \"perhaps even madness\" according to one scholar. He implored himself and Tom to base their lives upon the New Testament.\n\nLiving under canvas, the Wills family took up the leases of a large property named Lexington (near present-day Moyston) in an area used by Djab wurrung Aboriginal clans as a meeting place. According to family members, Tom, as an only child, \"was thrown much into the companionship of aborigines\". In an account of corroborees from childhood, his cousin H. C. A. Harrison remembered Tom's ability to learn Aboriginal songs, mimic their voice and gestures, and \"speak their language as fluently as they did themselves, much to their delight.\" It is speculated that Tom may have also played Aboriginal sports. Horatio wrote fondly of his son's kinship with Aborigines, and allowed local clans to live and hunt on Lexington. However, George Augustus Robinson, the district's Chief Protector of Aborigines, implicated Horatio and other local settlers in the murder of Aborigines. Horatio blamed \"distant predatory tribes\" for provoking hostilities in the area, and the closest he came to admitting that he had killed Aborigines was in a letter to Governor Charles La Trobe: \"... we shall be compelled in self defence to measures that may involve us in unpleasant consequences\".\n\nTom's first sibling, Emily, was born on Christmas Day 1842. In 1846 Wills began attendance at William Brickwood's School in Melbourne. There he was looked after by Horatio's brother Thomas (Tom's namesake), a Victorian separatist and son-in-law of the Wills family's partner in the shipping trade, convict Mary Reibey. Tom played in his first cricket matches at school, and he came in contact with the Melbourne Cricket Club through Brickwood, the club's vice-president. By 1849, the year Wills' schooling in Melbourne ended, his family had grown to include brothers Cedric, Horace and Egbert. Horatio had ambitious plans for the education of his children, especially Tom:\n\nWills' father sent him to England in February 1850, aged fourteen, to attend Rugby School, the most prestigious school in the country. He arrived in London after a five-month sea voyage. There, during school holidays, he stayed with his paternal aunt Sarah, who moved from Sydney after the death of her first husband, convict William Redfern. In his scheme for his children, Horatio wanted Tom to go on to study law at the University of Cambridge, and return to Australia as a \"professional man of eminence\".\n\nThe reforms enacted by Thomas Arnold, famed headmaster, made Rugby the crucible of muscular Christianity, a \"cult of athleticism\" into which Wills was inculcated. Wills took up cricket within a week of entering Evans House. At first he bowled underhand, but it was considered outdated, so he tried roundarm bowling. He clean bowled a batsman with his first ball using this style and declared: \"I felt I was a bowler.\" Wills soon topped all of his house's cricket statistics. At bat he was a \"punisher\" with a sound defence; however, in an era when stylish stroke-play was expected of a gentleman cricketer, he was said to have no style at all. In April 1852, aged sixteen, Wills joined the Rugby School XI, and on his debut at Lord's a few months later, against the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC), he took a match-high 12 wickets. That year his bowling was vital in establishing Rugby as the greatest public school in English cricket. In a prelude to his colonial career, critics stated that Wills ought to be no-balled for throwing—an illegal bowling action. Rugby coach John Lillywhite, the umpire who famously no-balled professional Edgar Willsher, defended his protégé. Wills survived the scandal. He played with, and attracted praise from the leading cricketers of the age, including Alfred Mynn. William Clarke, his hero, invited him to join the All-England Eleven in 1854, but he remained at school. The next year, he became Rugby XI captain.\nRugby, like other English public schools, had evolved its own variant of football. The game in Wills' era—a rough and highly defensive struggle involving hundreds of boys—was confined to a competition amongst the houses. Spanning his school years, Wills is one of the few players who is named in the newspapers' brief match reports. His creative play and \"eel-like agility\" baffled the opposition, and his penchant for theatrics endeared him to the crowds. One journalist noted his use of \"slimy tricks\", a possible early reference to his gamesmanship. As a \"dodger\" in the forward line, he was a long and accurate shot at goal and served as his house's kicker. Wills also shone in the school's annual athletics carnival and his long-distance running ability in Hare and Hounds was unparalleled.\n\nWills cut a dashing figure with \"impossibly wavy\" hair and blue, almond-shaped eyes that \"[burnt] with a pale light\". By age 16 at 5'8\" he was already taller than his father. In \"Lillywhite's Guide\" a few years later he measured in at 5'10\" and it was written that \"few athletes can boast of a more muscular and well-developed frame\".\n\nConsumed by sport, Wills, to his father's chagrin, fell behind academically. It was said that he \"could not bring himself to study for professional work\" after \"having led a sort of nomadic life when a youth in Australia\". Suffering from homesickness, he decorated his study with objects to remind him of Lexington, including Aboriginal weapons. Horatio wrote to Tom about the latter's friends, the Djab wurrung: \"They told me to send you up to them as soon as you came back.\"\n\nIn June 1855, nearing his 20th birthday, Wills finished his schooling. Hailed as Rugby's exemplar sportsman, his status as a cricketer had come to define him in the eyes of others. In a farewell tribute from his fellow students he was called simply \"the school bowler\".\n\nAfter leaving Rugby, and with a steady supply of money from his father, Wills roamed Britain in pursuit of cricketing pleasure. Regarded as \"one of the most promising cricketers in the kingdom\", he played with royalty, made first-class appearances for the MCC, Kent, and various Gentlemen sides, and also fell in with the I Zingari—the \"gypsy lords of English cricket\"—an amateur club known for its exotic costumes and hedonistic lifestyle. Against Horatio's wishes, Tom, having failed to matriculate, did not continue his studies at Cambridge, but did play cricket for the university's team (as well as Magdalene College), most notably in 1856 when rules barring non-student players from the University Match were ignored, Cambridge being \"one man short\" against Oxford. In June, Wills played cricket at Rugby School for the last time, representing the MCC alongside Lord Guernsey, the Earl of Winterton, and Charles du Cane, governor-to-be of Tasmania. Following a month of cricket in Ireland, Wills, at the behest of Horatio, returned to England to prepare for his journey home to Australia.\n\nThe last eighteen months had exposed Wills to \"the richest sporting experience on earth\". His six years in England charted a way of life—one of drinking, reckless spending and playing games—that he would continue to lead until his death.\n\nWills returned to Australia aboard the \"Oneida\" steamship, arriving in Melbourne on 23 December 1856. The minor port city of his youth had risen to world renown as the booming financial centre of the Victorian gold rush. Horatio, now a member of the Legislative Assembly in the Victorian Parliament, was living on \"Belle Vue\", a farm at Point Henry near Geelong, the Wills' family home since 1853. In his first summer back in Melbourne, Wills stayed with his extended family, the Harrisons, at their home on Victoria Parade, and entered a Collins Street law firm to appease his father, but he seems never to have practiced; the few comments he made about law suggest it meant little to him. \"Tom was no dunce\", writes Greg de Moore. He was \"negotiating a path to greatness.\"\n\nThe Australian colonies were described as \"cricket mad\" in the 1850s, and Victorians, in particular, were said to live \"in an atmosphere of cricket\". Intercolonial contests, first held in 1851, provided an outlet for the at times intense rivalry between Victoria and New South Wales. With his reputation preceding him, Wills became the bearer of Victoria's hopes of winning its first match against the elder colony. A former acquaintance in England, William Hammersley, then captain of the Victoria XI, recalled Wills' first appearance on the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) for a trial match, staged one week after his return:\nWills won the match for his side with a top score of 57 not out, and \"The Age\" said of his playing style and entertaining ability that \"there has not been a more amusing scene on this ground\". In the January 1857 intercolonial against New South Wales, held on the Domain in Sydney, Wills was the leading wicket-taker with ten victims, but failed with the bat. Bowling fast round-arm, the Victorians scoffed at the \"antiquated\" underhand action of their opponents. The latter style proved effective, however, giving New South Wales a 65-run win. Back in Victoria, Wills joined numerous clubs, including the provincial Corio Cricket Club, based in Geelong, and the elite Melbourne Cricket Club (MCC). Although he had a greater affinity for Corio, the MCC maintained that Wills belonged to them, and took offence at his lack of loyalty to any one club. In order to secure Wills in matches between the two teams, the MCC allowed Corio to field an extra five men to make up for his loss.\nParliament and business came to a standstill in Melbourne for the January 1858 intercolonial match between Victoria and New South Wales, held at the MCG. Captaining Victoria, Wills took 8 wickets, the most of his side, and on the second day, batting in the middle order, a ball hit an imperfection in the pitch and knocked him unconscious. He recovered, played on for two hours, and won the match at day's end with a top score of 49*. The crowd rushed the field and chaired Wills off in triumph, and victory celebrations lasted for several days throughout the colony. Now a household name and the darling of Melbourne's elite, Wills was proclaimed \"the greatest cricketer in the land\".\n\nAlthough Wills enjoyed his lofty amateur status, he liked to socialise with and support working class professional cricketers—an egalitarian attitude that sometimes led to conflict with sporting officialdom but endeared him to the common man. Wills' allegiance to professionals was highlighted by an incident in Tasmania in February 1858 when the Launceston Cricket Club shunned professional members of his touring Victorian side. Infuriated, he spoke out against being \"forsaken\" in a \"strange land\". One week later, during a game in Hobart, Wills earned the locals' ire as he \"[jumped] about exultantly\" after maiming a Tasmanian batsman with a spell of hostile fast bowling.\n\nWills was elected secretary of the MCC during the 1857–58 season. It was a role in which he proved to be chaotic and disorganised. MCC delegates took issue with Wills' \"continued non-attendance\" at meetings, and when the club fell into debt, his poor administrative skills were blamed. He acted on year-long threats in mid-1858 and deserted the MCC, leaving its records and amenities in dissaray; to this day, the only minutes that cannot be found date from his secretaryship. A lasting tension existed between Wills and the MCC's inner circle. According to Martin Flanagan, \"It was a relationship which couldn't last as Wills only knew one way—his own.\"\n\nWills was a compulsive writer to the press on cricketing matters and in the late 1850s his letters sometimes appeared on a daily basis. An agitator like his father, he used language \"in the manner of a speaker declaiming forcefully from a platform\". On 10 July 1858, the Melbourne-based \"Bell's Life in Victoria and Sporting Chronicle\" published by Wills that is regarded as a catalyst for a new style of football, known today as Australian rules football. Titled \"Winter Practice\", it begins:\nIn endeavouring to keep cricketers active during the off-season, Wills made the first public declaration of its kind in Australia: that football should be a regular and organised activity. Around this time he helped to foster football in Melbourne's schools. The local headmasters, his collaborators, were inspired in large part by Thomas Hughes' novel \"Tom Brown's School Days\" (1857), an account of life at Rugby School under the headship of Thomas Arnold. Due to similarities between their sporting careers at Rugby, Wills has been called the \"real-life embodiment\" of Tom Brown, the novel's fictitious hero.\n\nWills' letter was alluded to two weeks after its publication in an advertisement posted by his friend, professional cricketer and publican Jerry Bryant, for a \"scratch match\" held adjacent to the MCG at the Richmond Paddock. The first of several kickabouts held that year involving Wills, Bryant and other Melbourne cricketers, it was described by one participant as \"football Babel\"; a \"short code of rules\" were to be drawn up afterwards, however this does not seem to have occurred. Another landmark game, played without fixed rules over three Saturdays and co-umpired by Wills and teacher John Macadam, began on the same site on 7 August between forty Scotch College students and a like number from Melbourne Grammar. The two schools have since competed annually. Wills emerged as the standout figure in accounts of Melbourne football in 1858. These early experimental games were more rugby-like than anything else—low-scoring, low-to-the-ground \"gladiatorial\" tussles. The last recorded match of the year is the subject of the first known Australian football poem, published in \"Punch\". Wills, the only player named, is reified as \"the Melbourne chief\", leading his men to victory against a side from South Yarra.\n\nFollowing a scratch match at the start of the 1859 football season, the Melbourne Football Club officially came into being on 14 May. Three days later, Wills and three other members—Hammersley, journalist J. B. Thompson and teacher Thomas H. Smith—met near the MCG at the Parade Hotel, owned by Bryant, to devise and codify the club's rules. The men went over the rules of four English schools; Hammersley recalled Wills' preference for the Rugby game, but it was found to be confusing and too violent. Subsequently, they rejected common features such as \"hacking\" (shin-kicking) and produced a signed document listing ten simple rules suited to grown men and Australian conditions. Heading the list of signatories, Wills, too, saw the need for compromise. He wrote to his brother Horace: \"Rugby was not a game for us, we wanted a winter pastime but men could be harmed if thrown on the ground so we thought differently.\" Thompson and Hammersley's promotion of the new code, together with Wills' star power, encouraged the spread of football throughout Victoria.\n\nAfter his fallout with the MCC, Wills moved freely about Victoria, playing for any club of his choosing. He became president of Collingwood and vice-president of Richmond, raising the standard of the latter's play to make it the premier club in the colony. There were calls to bar Wills from some club matches, for when a side secured him, often as a late inclusion, he was seen to distort the balance of play and dramatically alter the odds, forcing bookmakers to declare \"all bets are off\". But all clubs still coveted Wills when it suited their cause, and there was scarcely a day when he was not playing or practising cricket.\n\nWills was reappointed captain of Victoria for the January 1859 intercolonial against New South Wales, held at the Domain. He broke his right middle finger on day one while attempting a catch. Undeterred, Wills top scored in the first innings with 15* and took 5/24 and 6/25, carrying Victoria to an upset win. He resigned from the intercolonial match committee in protest of Thompson assailing him for not practicing ahead of the next match against New South Wales. During a follow-up practice match, players struggled in the day's heat, and ignoring calls to retire, Wills suffered a near-fatal sunstroke. Hammersley wrote that Wills felt obliged to perform for the large crowd that had gathered to watch him. Over 25,000 people attended the MCG in February 1860 to see Victoria, captained by Wills, play New South Wales. Wills bowled unchanged in both innings, taking 6/23 and 3/16, and top scored with 20*. Victoria won by 69 runs. The Melbourne media gave Wills the sobriquet \"Great Gun of the Colony\". A British correspondent called him \"a cricketer born\". The Sydney press, championing Wills as a native New South Welshman, agreed:\n\nWills remained an influential figure in Australian football from 1859 to 1860. While he fought for the adoption of several Rugby School customs—such as a free kick for marking, the use of an oval-shaped ball, and (unsuccessfully) a crossbar—he pushed the game in new directions as a captain and tactician, such as during an 1860 match when he used positional play to exploit the code's lack of an offside law, at which point, according to James Coventry, \"the full potential of the sport started to be realised\".\n\nAt Wills' invitation, his cousin H. C. A. Harrison took up football in 1859, and quickly became a leading player and captain. He looked up to Wills, terming him \"the beau-ideal of an athlete\"—high praise given that Harrison was the champion runner of Victoria. Their presence in Geelong fuelled a local craze for football and ensured the Geelong Football Club's supremacy in the early 1860s. In an era when players moved freely among clubs, Wills still represented Melbourne, and in 1860, was the first captain and secretary of the Richmond Football Club (no connection with the AFL club). The code underwent revisions around this time, principally in response to the on-field actions of dominant players. \"And there were none more dominant than Wills and Harrison\", writes Coventry.\n\nWith plans underway for the first tour of Australia by an English cricket team, Wills announced his retirement from sport. At his father's beckoning, Wills agreed to leave Victoria to help found a new family property, Cullin-la-ringo, on the Nogoa River in outback Queensland. He prepared for six months in country Victoria where learnt the crafts of a squatter. In his will, Horatio—showing a \"deep understanding\" of Tom's personality—wrote that his son would be removed from the station and receive a diminished inheritance in the event of \"misconducting himself\" as manager.\n\nIn January 1861, Tom, Horatio and a party of employees and their families travelled by steamer to Brisbane, disembarked in Moreton Bay, and then, with livestock and supplies, set out on an eight-month trek through Queensland's rugged interior. Food was scarce and Tom hunted native game to fend off starvation. They suffered many other hardships and even death when, in Toowoomba, one of Horatio's men drowned. On the Darling Downs over 10,000 sheep were collected. The size of the Wills party attracted the attention of local Aborigines, and the two groups engaged in games of mimicry. Wary of entering the region's frontier war, Horatio sought peaceful coexistence with the Aborigines. The party reached Cullin-la-ringo, situated on Kairi Aboriginal land, in early October, and proceeded to set up camp.\n\nOn the afternoon of 17 October, two weeks after their arrival, Horatio and eighteen of his party were murdered in the deadliest massacre of settlers by Aborigines in Australian history. Tom was away from the property at the time, having been sent with two stockmen to collect supplies left en route to Cullin-la-Ringo. He returned several days later to a scene of devastation. Despairing and in shock, Wills first wrote to Harrison in Melbourne: \"... all our party except I have been slaughtered by the black's ... I am in a great fix no men.\" Police, native police and vigilante groups from neighbouring stations swiftly tracked down and killed at least 30 local Aborigines; the total may have been 70. Wills took refuge near Cullin-la-ringo, and though he desired to avenge his father's death, there is no evidence that he joined the reprisal raids.\n\nConflicting reports reached the outside world and for a time it was feared that Tom had died. In the press, Horatio was accused of ignoring warnings and allowing Aborigines to encroach on his property. The retribution was also called excessive. Tom vehemently defended his father against any perceived criticism. Privately, in his letter to Harrison, he admitted, \"if we had used common precaution all would have been well\". It was later revealed that, prior to leaving the camp, Tom advised Horatio to be watchful of the local Aborigines, but according to Hammersley, \"the old man prided himself on being able to manage the blacks ... and said they would never harm him.\" The Queensland press, still in the wake of the massacre, suggested that Wills, \"now a Queenslander\", be approached to captain the colony's cricket team.\n\nDifferent reasons were put forward at the time to account for the Wills tragedy. For many colonists, it confirmed the popular belief that Aborigines were bloodthirsty savages. Tom never articulated his version of events in writing, but his brother Cedric wrote years later that it was an act of revenge for an attack made on local Aborigines by squatter Jesse Gregson. He quoted Tom as saying, \"If the truth is ever known, you will find that it was through Gregson shooting those blacks; that was the cause of the murder.\"\n\nIn the years following the massacre, Wills experienced flashbacks, nightmares and an irritable heart—features of what is now known as posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Having immersed himself in the drinking culture of colonial sport, he increased his alcohol consumption in a likely attempt to blot out memories and alleviate sleep disturbance. Wills' sister Emily wrote of him two months after the massacre: \"He says he never felt so changed in the whole course of his life\".\n\nWills made a vow over Horatio's grave to remain on Cullin-la-ringo and make it \"the pride of Queensland\"—words that, according to de Moore, \"enshrined and imprisoned\" Tom as the new head of the family. Hypervigilant, he slept only three hours a night with a rifle beside his bed and watched for signs of another attack. He began to rebuild the station pending the arrival of his uncle-in-law, William Roope, who took control of Cullin-la-ringo in December 1861, but soon left due to Wills acting \"exceedingly ill\" to him. Wills struggled to cope with the harsh conditions and isolation of the outback. He went blind for weeks after contracting \"sandy blight\".\n\nHe went to Sydney in January 1863 to captain Victoria against New South Wales on the Domain. The match turned into a riot when the crowd invaded the field during a dispute over the Victorian umpire's impartiality. Wills, leading his men from the Domain, was struck in the face by a stone, and professionals George Marshall and William Greaves fled the city, reducing the Victorian side to nine men. Wills took 8 wickets and top scored in both innings (25* and 17*), but Victoria lost by 84 runs. The Melbourne media castigated Wills for allowing the game to continue and called him a traitor when evidence surfaced that he agreed to play for New South Wales in the weeks prior to the match. He denied all accusations and wrote in an angry letter to \"The Sydney Morning Herald\": \"I for one do not think that Victoria will ever send an Eleven up here again.\" Back in Victoria, he became engaged to Julie Anderson, a farmer's daughter from Skipton and friend of the Wills family. Her name does not appear in any of Wills' surviving letters; he rarely mentioned the women he courted, let alone his feelings for them. Wills stayed in Geelong for the start of the 1863 football season, breaking his promise of an early return to Cullin-la-ringo, much to the dismay of his mother and the holding's trustees.\n\nWills finally returned to Queensland in May and was sworn in as a Justice of the Peace upon arrival in Brisbane. Over the next few months at Cullin-la-ringo, he reported at least three murders of local settlers by Aborigines, among them one of his shepherds. He accosted government officials, seeking the detachment of a Native Police Force to his station for protection, and scorned \"Brisbane saints\" for sympathising with the plight of Aborigines in the Nogoa region. With the cricket season approaching, Wills agreed to captain Queensland against New South Wales, and then left the colony to lead a Victoria XXII at the MCG against George Parr's All-England Eleven. In awe of his 1,800 mile dash across the continent to play cricket, the English thought it a madman's journey. Wills arrived on the final day of the match to a rapturous reception, and went in as a substitute fielder. He then joined the visitors on their Victorian tour.\n\nThe 1863–64 season saw Wills' engagement to Anderson collapse, possibly due to his womanising, and the trustees of Cullin-la-ringo accused him of mismanaging the property, in part by squandering family finances on alcohol while claiming it as station expenditure. They demanded that he stay in Victoria to answer for the property's runaway debt. In response, Wills left Australia to join Parr's XI on a month-long tour of New Zealand. Initially standing in as umpire, he went on to captain local teams against the English, and filled the same role for a Victoria XXII at the end of the tour in Melbourne. He faced the trustees soon after. With his mother's reluctant approval, they decided to dismiss him from Cullin-la-ringo, thus fulfilling the premonition in Horatio's will.\n\nWills stayed at the family home in Geelong. Always a black sheep of sorts, he now became increasingly estranged from his mother and sister Emily. Family letters from mid-1864 reveal that Wills had a \"wife\"—a \"bad woman\" according to Emily. It is likely a reference to the already-married Sarah Barbor (née Duff). Born in Dublin, she is a mysterious figure, but is known to have remained Wills' lifelong partner. The de facto nature of their relationship, and even Barbor's existence, were probably kept secret from Wills' mother for a number of years.\n\nThroughout the 1865 football season, Wills played for and often captained Melbourne and Geelong, two of the game's most powerful clubs. At the end of a winter beset with public brawls over which team \"owned\" him, Wills moved to Geelong for the remainder of his career, prompting \"Bell's Life in Victoria\" to report that Melbourne had lost \"the finest leader of men on the football field\". The following year, when the running bounce and other rules were formalised at a meeting of club delegates under Harrison's chairmanship, Wills was not present; his move to Geelong had cut him off from the rule-making process in Melbourne.\n\nIntercolonials between Victoria and New South Wales resumed at the MCG on Boxing Day 1865, nearly three years since the Sydney riot. Sam Cosstick, William Caffyn and other Victorian professionals defected to the rival colony due to pay disputes with the MCC. Wills, leading the weakened Victorian side to an against-the-odds win, took 6 wickets and contributed 58—the first half century in Australian first-class cricket—to 285, a record intercolonial total. Allegations that Wills cheated his way to victory failed to endanger his status as a folk hero and \"a source of eternal hope\" for Victoria.\n\nIn May 1866, the MCC's minute book featured an unusual request: Roland Newbury, the club's pavilion keeper, wanted \"use of the ground for two days ... for purpose of a match with the native black eleven\". It was the first intimation of a cricket match between the MCC and an Aboriginal team from Victoria's Western District. The motive behind the match, scheduled for late December, was a financial one, and in August, Wills agreed to coach the Aborigines. Wills' reasons for accepting the role remain a mystery, but his need for money was likely a factor. This was to mark the beginning of his transition from amateur to professional sportsman.\n\nWills travelled inland in November to convene the players from Edenhope and Harrow, where they worked as station hands. One of their employers, William Hayman, acted as the team's manager and \"protector\". They were mostly Jardwadjali men who shared common vocabulary with the neighbouring Djab wurrung people, which enabled Wills to use the Aboriginal language he learnt as a child. From their training ground at Lake Wallace, Wills, in a \"tactical strike\", boasted to the Melbourne press of the Aborigines' powers, especially the batsmanship of Unamurriman, commonly known as Mullagh. In a response that drew widespread criticism, the MCC strengthened its ranks with non-members. Public sympathy was with the Aborigines when they arrived in Melbourne and over 10,000 spectators attended the MCG on Boxing Day to see them play. Captained by Wills, they lost the match, but won praise for their performance. Wills afterwards accused the MCC of \"treachery\".\n\nIt is unknown what Wills and the Aborigines made of the broader social and political dimensions of the enterprise. Some of Wills' contemporaries were shocked that he would associate with Aborigines in the shadow of his father's death. Others, such as this writer in \"The Empire\", addressed him as a hero:\n\nWhile Melburnians were enthralled by the Aborigines, the annual intercolonial between Victoria and New South Wales—usually the season highlight—failed to excite public interest, and Victoria's loss in Sydney was put down to Wills' absence. The Aboriginal team improved as it toured Victoria in January. After an easy win in Geelong, Wills took the players to \"Belle Vue\" to meet his mother. Back in Melbourne, two of the Aborigines, Bullocky (Bullenchanach) and Cuzens (Yellana), joined Wills in representing Victoria against a Tasmanian XVI. The team's successes provoked a public discourse over past mistreatment of Aborigines and future relations between the races. Wills' role took on a symbolic significance: his status as a 'native' (native-born Australian) was used to identify him with his 'native' (indigenous) teammates, and he was also noted for speaking in \"their own lingo\". Jellico (Murrumgunarriman), the \"team jester\", joked: \"[Wills] too much along of us. He speak nothing now but blackfellow talk.\"\n\nThey went to Sydney in February to begin a tour of the colonies and overseas. Aware of the tour's lucrative potential, Englishman Charles Lawrence, captain of New South Wales, invited the team to stay at his hotel on Manly Beach. Their first match against his club at the Albert Ground in Redfern came to a dramatic halt when Wills was arrested and briefly gaoled for a breach of contract. He and W. E. B. Gurnett, the tour promoter, had been vying to take over as manager. The team was left stranded after Gurnett embezzled some of the funds, confirming Wills' suspicion that he was a con artist. With plans of a trip abroad abandoned, Lawrence set up a \"benefit\" match, and by the end of the tour's New South Wales leg, had usurped Wills as captain. No longer attracting significant crowds or media attention, they returned to Victoria in May, and within two weeks, Wills was in Geelong playing football. It has been said that, due to his drinking habit, he exercised a \"bad influence\" upon the Aborigines, four of whom died from illness during or soon after the tour; the inquest into one death, that of Watty (Bilvayarrimin), and a follow-up police report revealed cases of alcohol abuse among the players.\n\nThe surviving members formed part of the Aboriginal team which Lawrence took to England in 1868, ten years before the first Australian XI classed as representative went overseas. Wills resented Lawrence for reviving the team without him; his exclusion has been called the tragedy of his sporting career.\n\nWithout career prospects outside of sport, Wills joined the MCC as a professional at the start of the 1867–68 season; however, he was not openly referred to as such. Instead, the club devised the title of 'tutor' in order that he maintain the prestige of his amateur background.\n\nPlayed on the MCG, the December 1867 intercolonial between Victoria and New South Wales ended in a sound victory for the former, principally due to Wills' nine-wicket haul and Richard Wardill's century. Wills had been Victoria's preferred captain for over a decade. Writing in his sports column, Hammersley claimed that, as a paid cricketer, Wills lacked \"moral ascendancy\" over amateurs. When he lost the captaincy to Wardill, an amateur, on the eve of the March 1869 match against New South Wales, he refused to play under him, or, indeed, anyone else. The Victorians condemned Wills and resolved to go on without him, after which he retracted his decision not to play. This was the last intercolonial played on the Domain and Victoria recovered from Wardill's diamond duck to win by 78 runs. Wills scalped 7 wickets in a single innings.\n\nAfter the intercolonial, Wills announced that he would not play for Victoria again, even if the colony wanted him. He planned to return to Cullin-la-ringo in early 1869, but his mother, still \"very dissatisfied\" with him, requested that he stay away from the station. The MCC took him back and he continued to act as a tutor with the club. Wills' former Aboriginal teammates, Mullagh and Cuzens, joined him at the MCC as paid bowlers.\n\nWills' physical appearance had deteriorated; gaining weight, balding and generally unkempt, with \"an alcoholic blush of his cheeks\", he looked older than his years. Describing his body as \"stiff\" during a cricket match in 1870, he hinted, for the first time, that his talent was fading.\n\nHardly a year had passed since Wills' return to Australia in 1856 without public comment on his suspect bowling action. As the most famous and outspoken colonial bowler to be accused of throwing, Wills became a \"convenient caricature\" of the cheat in cricket. He was cast as a villain for inciting a \"plague\" of throwing, especially among younger bowlers. For years his amateur status and \"transcendent skill\" had protected him, as had the collusion of Victorian newspapers, clubs and spectators, but now an ageing professional, the campaign against his throwing gathered strength.\n\nIn February 1870, Wills captained Victoria to a 265-run win over New South Wales at the MCG. The match featured Twopenny (Jarrawuk), an Aboriginal paceman who was said to have been recruited by Lawrence as a foil to Wills' \"chucks\". Comparing the two, the Melbourne press surmised: \"Undoubtedly Wills throws sometimes, but there is some decency about it, some disguise.\" In March, Victoria trounced a Tasmanian XVI in Launceston under Wills' leadership, though not without criticism of his bowling action. The accusations of throwing were growing louder, and one-time ally Hammersley, now Melbourne's foremost sportswriter, emerged as Wills' most vocal critic. He accused Wills of resorting to throwing to maintain pace as he aged, and criticised him for introducing a type of bouncer designed to injure and intimidate batsmen. \"The Australasian\", Hammersley's newspaper, described Wills' modus operandi: \"If I cannot hit your wicket or make you give a chance soon, I'll hit you and hurt you if I can. I'll frighten you out.\"\n\nIn the face of a looming crisis in his career, Wills admitted to throwing in his 1870–71 \"Australian Cricketers' Guide\", and in so doing taunted his enemies to stop him. Nonetheless, he was made Victoria XI captain for the March 1871 intercolonial against New South Wales, held at the Albert Ground. Wills' first innings top score of 39* was offset by his drunken behaviour in the field and his apparent reluctance to bowl for fear of being called. Victoria won by 48 runs. Not long after, Wills was no-balled for throwing for the first time in a club match. Rumour spread that the umpire had conspired against him with the opposing club's owner.\n\nA series of superb club cricket performances removed any doubt that Wills would play for Victoria in the next intercolonial against New South Wales, scheduled for March 1872 on the MCG. Before the game, representatives from both colonies met and entered into a bilateral agreement designed to call Wills. When he opened the bowling, Wills became the first cricketer to be called for throwing in a top-class Australian match. He was called two more times in two overs, and did not bowl again. He was again no-balled when a Victorian side under his captaincy lost to a combined XIII from New South Wales, Tasmania and South Australia late in 1872.\n\nHammersley had seemingly triumphed in his campaign to have Wills banned from intercolonial cricket. In an exchange of personal attacks in the press, Wills implied that Hammersley was an architect of the no-ball plot, and protested that he and other English colonists were out to oppress native-born Australians. Wills went on to threaten him with legal action. Hammersley closed:\n\nW. G. Grace, the Victorian era's most famous cricketer, brought an English team to Australia in 1873–74. Wills was desperate to play for Victoria against Grace and rival cricketing factions fought over his possible inclusion. Hammersley, a selector, ensured his omission. Wills toured with the team, playing for country sides. Irked by Wills' constant presence, Grace remarked that he seemed to regard himself as a representative of the whole of Australia. It was assumed that, on his homeward journey, Grace would play a final match in the South Australian capital of Adelaide, but he bypassed the city when Kadina, a remote mining town in the Copper Triangle, offered him more money. Wills coached the locals. Played in an open, rock-strewn plain of baked earth, the game was deemed a farce. Wills made a pair and Grace later wrote derisively of the \"old Rugbeian\" as a has-been. Grace neglected to mention that Wills bowled him, ending with 6/28.\n\nIn Geelong, Wills was still idolised, though he seemed discontented, seeking any chance to earn money through cricket in the major cities. He maintained an interest in the development of football, what he called \"the king of games\". He continued to suggest rule changes, such as the push in the back rule to curb injuries, and, as captain of Geelong, had shaped the sport's playing style. Utilising the young squad's speed and skill, Wills devised an innovative game plan—what he called \"scientific football\"—based on passing and running into open space. He pioneered another tactical manoeuvre in Ballarat by controversially ordering his players to flood the backline to prevent the home side from scoring. He and his men incited the crowd further by wasting time and deliberately kicking the ball out of bounds. A few years later, in a rare act of diplomacy, Wills quelled tensions after a rival club used his \"unchivalrous tactics\" against Geelong. He played his last football game in 1874.\n\nThe Victoria XI suffered a streak of losses against New South Wales after Wills' downfall. In his 1874–75 \"Australian Cricketers' Guide\", Wills argued that a new captain was needed to restore Victoria's glory. \"No one reading his words could mistake its intent—what Victoria needed was Tom Wills\", writes de Moore. For the first time in years, the Victorian selection committee shortlisted Wills for the next intercolonial against New South Wales. Noting his faded skills and past transgressions, the Melbourne press lamented, \"there is some sentimental notion afloat that as a captain he is peerless.\" Pessimism gave way to hope as Wills promised a win, and in February 1876 he led the Victoria XI onto the Albert Ground. Batting last in the order, he went for 0 and 4 and failed to take a wicket despite bowling the most overs of his side. The media blamed him for Victoria's 195-run loss. In turn, he blamed his teammates.\n\nBy 1877, Wills' cricket career \"had become a series of petty disputes in petty games\" of \"ever-deteriorating standards.\" No longer an office-bearer with Corio, he moved amongst lower-level clubs in the Geelong area, earning scraps of money wherever he could. In a brief postscript to one of several rejected applications for employment at the MCC, Wills gave voice to old cricketers \"left in the cold\". De Moore interpreted the postscript as \"an unmistakable backhander for the club.\" He continues: \"To see Wills simply as a beggar would be to misunderstand him.\"\n\nFollowing his retirement as a footballer, Wills turned to umpiring and committee work, and despite his continued slide into debt, donated money and trophies for football competitions. He served as Geelong's vice-president from 1873 to 1876, and was one of three delegates appointed by the club after the 1877 formation of the Victorian Football Association (VFA), but was dropped soon after for unknown reasons. During the 1878 VFA season, he acted as central umpire, and defended his adjudication of a June match between Carlton and Albert Park in what would be his last public letter. That year, Wills, broke and hounded by creditors, began selling land in Geelong to help clear his debt, and moved with Barbor to South Melbourne.\n\nWills held no positions of power at the South Melbourne Cricket Club and only occasionally appeared in local team lists. He nonetheless convinced the club to open its ground to football in winter by arguing that it would make the turf firm and durable. Other clubs soon followed South Melbourne's example and football adapted to an oval-shaped field. By now, the sport had spread throughout Australasia with Melbourne matches attracting the world's largest football crowds yet seen.\n\nIn late 1878, the MCC rejected Wills' last overture to the club, and his dwindling income from cricket was \"finally asphyxiated\". From February 1879 onwards, he lived with Barbor in Heidelberg, a small village on the margins of Melbourne. Wills made only two trips outside of Heidelberg for the remainder of his life; on one of these, in January 1880, he was sighted at the MCG during an intercolonial between Victoria and New South Wales. His alcoholism worsened over this period, as did Barbor's, also a heavy drinker. Occasionally he coached the Heidelberg Cricket Club, and, on 13 March 1880, played for the side against a \"travelling circus\" of bohemians in his last recorded game. Wills took five wickets, his \"chucks\" working \"sweetly\" on the rough pitch. In his last surviving letters, sent two days later to his brothers on Cullin-la-ringo, he wrote that he was \"out of the world\" in Heidelberg, and fantasised about escaping to Tasmania. Begging for money to help pay off debts, he promised, \"I will not trouble any of you again\".\n\nIsolated and estranged from most of his family, Wills had become, in the words of cricket historian David Frith, \"a complete and dangerous and apparently incurable alcoholic\". An oft-repeated story that Wills was housed at Kew Lunatic Asylum near the end of his life is not supported by substantive evidence. He and Barbor abruptly stopped drinking on 28 April 1880; it is presumed that they ran out of money to buy more alcohol. Two days later, Wills started to show signs of alcohol withdrawal, and Barbor, fearing that a calamity was at hand, admitted him to the Melbourne Hospital on 1 May to be kept under restraint. His physician treated him for delirium tremens, but he absconded soon after, returned home and the next day, in the grip of paranoid delusions, committed suicide by stabbing a pair of scissors into his heart three times. The inquest, on 3 May, presided over by coroner Richard Youl, found that Wills \"killed himself when of unsound mind from excessive drinking\". Wills was buried the next day in an unmarked grave in Heidelberg Cemetery at a private funeral attended by only six people: his brother Egbert, sister Emily and cousin Harrison; Harrison's sister Adela and her son Amos; and cricketer Verney Cameron. His death certificate declared that his parents were unknown. When asked by a journalist about her late son, Elizabeth Wills is reported to have denied that Tom ever existed.\n\nWills struck his contemporaries as peculiar and at times narcissistic, with a prickly temperament, but also kind, charismatic and companionable. Often embroiled in controversy, he seemed to lack an understanding of how his words and actions could repeatedly get him into trouble. His obsession with sport was such that he showed little interest in anything else. Through his research, journalist Martin Flanagan concluded that Wills was \"utterly bereft of insight into himself\", and football historian Gillian Hibbins described Wills as \"an overbearing and undisciplined young man who tended to blame others for his troubles and was more interested in winning a game than in respecting sporting rules.\" Wills' family and peers, though angered by his misbehaviour, frequently forgave him. It is unlikely that he sought popular favour, but his strong egalitarian streak helped solidify his folk hero status. This affection for him, coupled with an understanding of his waywardness, found expression in the public motto: \"With all thy faults I love thee still, Tommy Wills\".\n\nAs a young adult back in Australia, Wills developed a peculiar stream of consciousness style of writing that sometimes defied syntax and grammar. While he spoke in a breezy and laconic manner, his letters are laced with puns, oblique classical and Shakespearean allusions, and droll asides, such as this one about Melbourne in a letter to his brother Cedric: \"Everything is dull here, but people are kept alive by people getting shot at in the streets\". The overall effect is one of \"a mind full of energy and histrionic ideas without a centre\".\nIn one of his borderline \"thought disordered\" letters, it is evident that at times he entered a state of depersonalisation: \"I do not know what I am standing on ... when anyone speaks to me I cannot for the life of me make out what they are talking about—everything seems so curious.\" In 1884, Hammersley compared Wills' incipient madness and fiery glare to that of Adam Lindsay Gordon, the Australian bush poet. Wills' mental instability is a source for speculation: epilepsy has been suggested as a possible cause of his perplexed mental state, and a variant of bipolar illness may account for his disjointed thinking and flowery, confused writings.\n\nIn 1923, the MCC discovered Wills' old cricket cap and put it on display in the Block Arcade, prompting Horace Wills to reflect: \"My brother was the nicest man I ever met. Though his nature was care-free, amounting almost to wildness, he had the sweetest temper I have seen in a man, and was essentially a sportsman.\"\n\nWills is regarded as Australia's first outstanding cricketer. \"The picture of the athlete\" in his prime, \"full to overflowing with animal vigor\", Wills seemed indestructible. Match reports refer to him as a Greek god, a Colossus, \"and many other things besides a cricketer\". Intensely competitive, his win-at-all-costs mentality, his intimidation of opponents, and his breaking of rules undermined the amateur ideal of friendly competition. A natural leader, he emboldened his men with his supreme confidence; even in the face of probable defeat, he never despaired the fortunes of his side. On the off-chance that he sought another player's opinion, he invariably followed his own mind, and his resources at any critical juncture in a match were said to be always clever, and sometimes unique. \"As a judge of the game he never had a superior\", wrote Britain's \"The Sportsman\". He was \"at once a cricket crank and genius\", according to \"The Bulletin\". The rarity of Wills' genius was even compared to William Shakespeare's.\n\nThe greatest all-rounder of his era, Wills saw himself principally as a bowler. With a repertoire that included \"sparklers, rippers, fizzers, trimmers and shooters\", he varied his pace and style considerably, and was quick to work out a batsman's weak points. Noted for his deceptive slow deliveries, dropping mid-flight and big on break, Wills' fast round arm balls sometimes reared head-high from the pitch, terrorising his opponent. English batsman Sir David Serjeant said that Wills was the only bowler he ever feared. He was known to carefully study an umpire before deciding whether to throw. A trickster, he would ask the umpire to watch his feet lest he go over the crease, and then \"let go a throw for all he was worth\". His most flagrant throws were likened to that of a baseball pitcher.\n\nStiff and \"peculiarly ugly\" with the bat, Wills was a dogged stonewaller; his characteristic shots—cuts and to the leg side—ensured the primacy of defence. He explained his technique thus: \"The ball can't get through the bat.\" He also possessed a capacity for explosive batting, and, according to a contemporary, could \"hit as hard as [boxer] Tom Sayers\". On one occasion at the MCG, Wills made a drive into the Richmond Paddock for eight runs. It took two fielders to throw the ball back to wicket. An outstanding fieldsman anywhere, Wills excelled in the slips and ran out batsmen with deadly accurate throwing.\n\nWills was a \"tear away\" footballer whose \"pluck and skill\", it was said, only George O'Mullane matched. The longest drop kick in Victoria, he was an elusive dodger, as at Rugby, and excelled in different positions, moving from a follower and goal-scorer in the ruck to full back. Of the early footballers, Wills was appraised as the greatest, most astute captain, and is credited with opening up the Australian game to new tactics and skills and a more free-flowing style of play. In July 1860—in what the press called a \"coup de main\", and what has since been recognised as a \"tactical leap\" that foreshadowed modern football—Wills breached the era's notional offside line by positioning his Richmond men down the field from defence to attack. By a series of short kick passes, they succeeded in scoring. That same month, captaining Melbourne to victory, he pioneered a rudimentary form of flooding; and in another win for the club, exploited the low player turnout by instructing his men to dart with the ball in open spaces. In his season-by-season ranking of players, early football historian C. C. Mullen named Wills \"Champion of the Colony\" five times. Historian Bernard Whimpress called Wills an innovator who \"would fit easily into today's game\". Historian Geoffrey Blainey writes: \"How many of the tricks and stratagems of the early years came from this clever tactician we will never know.\"\n\nAustralia's first celebrity sportsman, Wills began to fade from public consciousness within his own lifetime. His dark reputation and suicide, and his links to convictism and frontier violence—sources of cultural cringe—have been posited as reasons for his descent into obscurity. Academic Barry Judd called him \"a ghost inhabiting the margins of written history\". Coinciding with a revival of interest in Australia's colonial past, Wills has risen \"almost to a vogue\", and is seen as a forerunner of today's self-destructive star athletes, some of those qualities that alienated his peers \"being less shocking to a generation that likes its heroes flawed\". The subject of scholarly, literary and artistic works, his story has been likened to bushranger Ned Kelly's as an epic and quintessentially Australian narrative. After several attempts by different authors since the 1930s, a comprehensive biography was published in 2008, Greg de Moore's \"Tom Wills: First Wild Man of Australian Sport\".\n\nWills' unmarked gravesite was restored in 1980 with a headstone erected by the MCC and by public subscription. He was inducted into the Sport Australia Hall of Fame in 1989 and was made an inaugural member of the Australian Football Hall of Fame in 1996. The Tom Wills Room in the MCG's Great Southern Stand serves as a venue for corporate functions. A statue outside the MCG, sculpted by Louis Laumen and erected in 2001, depicts Wills umpiring the famous 1858 football match between Melbourne Grammar and Scotch College. The AFL commemorated the 150th anniversary of the match by staging the Tom Wills Round during the 2008 AFL Season. The two schools played in a curtain raiser at the MCG ahead of the round opener between Melbourne and Geelong. That same year, Victoria's busiest freeway interchange, the Monash–EastLink interchange in Dandenong North, was named the Tom Wills Interchange. Tom Wills Oval, inaugurated in 2013 at Sydney Olympic Park, serves as the training base for the Greater Western Sydney Giants of the AFL.\n\nSince the 1980s, it has been suggested that Wills played or observed an Aboriginal football game, Marngrook, as a child growing up in the Grampians among the Djab wurrung, and incorporated some of its features into early Australian football. The theory has provoked intense debate, amounting to a controversy dubbed \"football's history wars\". In her essay \"A Seductive Myth\", published in the AFL's \"The Australian Game of Football Since 1858\" (2008), Hibbins calls the proposed link an \"emotional belief\" lacking \"any intellectual credibility\". She points out that neither Wills nor any of his fellow football founders mention Aboriginal games in existing documents, and states that there is no evidence of Marngrook being played in the vicinity where Wills grew up. Since then, among the personal papers of ethnographer Alfred William Howitt, an interview has been found with a Mukjarrawaint man who recalls playing Marngrook in the Grampians. Also, in his first-hand account of Aboriginal games, James Dawson, an Aboriginal rights activist, records the Djab wurrung word for football as \"Min'gorm\". De Moore therefore argues that Marngrook was likely played around where Wills lived as a boy, \"or, at the very least, that the local Aboriginal people knew of such a game\". That Wills knew of Marngrook, he adds, is speculative at best.\n\nProponents of a link point to the games' similarities, such as drop punting the ball and leaping, catching feats. Academics Jenny Hocking and Nell Reidy write that Wills, in adapting football to Melbourne's parklands, wanted a game that kept the players off the ground and the ball in the air. \"It is here\", they argue, \"in the interstices between rugby and Australian football, that the influence of [Marngrook] can be seen most clearly\". Historian John Hirst countered that early Australian football was aligned with rugby-style roots, and bore little resemblance to Marngrook. According to de Moore, Wills was \"almost solely influenced\" by Rugby School football, with local conditions also having an effect.\n\nFlanagan promoted the Marngrook theory in his novel \"The Call\" (1996), an historical imagining into Wills' life, and argued in an essay addressed to Wills that he must have known Aboriginal games as it was in his nature to play: \"There's two things about you everybody seems to have agreed on—you'd drink with anyone and you'd play with anyone.\" He quotes Lawton Wills Cooke, a descendent of Horace Wills (Tom's brother), who said a family story had been passed down about Tom playing Marngrook as a boy. Family historian T. S. Wills Cooke disputed that such a story existed, calling the Marngrook link \"a bridge too far\" and a politically correct attempt to rewrite history. Despite lacking in hard evidence, the theory is often presented as factual. In Moyston, the self-proclaimed birthplace of Australian football, stands an AFL-endorsed monument, unveiled by historian Col Hutchinson, commemorating Wills' childhood in the area playing Marngrook.\n\nThe role that Wills and others played in pioneering Australian football went largely unrecognised in their lifetimes as the sport had yet to develop a historical perspective. In an 1876 piece on the Melbourne Football Club's origins, published in \"The Australasian\", Wills' 1858 letter calling for the organisation and codification of football was noted as a seminal document. Wills later wrote that he attempted to promote football in Victoria as early as 1857, \"but it was not taken to kindly until the following year\". By 1908, the year of Australian football's jubilee celebrations, H. C. A. Harrison was proclaimed \"the father of football\" on account of his substantial reputation on and off the field. Wills was the next most often recalled pioneer during this period, and Harrison credited him with initiating the sport when he \"recommended that we Australians should work out a game of our own.\" More recent historiography has shown that while Harrison was a pivotal figure over a long period, he did not co-write the first rules in 1859 and did not play in the 1858 games. With this correction, Wills was elevated to a position of pre-eminence. He has variously been called the game's father and inventor. Blainey said of Wills: \"It is far too much to say that he founded the game, but it would be too little to say that he was simply one among many founders.\"\n\nIt is often said that, due to his suicide, Wills was written out of the game's history, or at the very least downplayed as an important figure. De Moore has challenged this view by noting that it was the contributions of Hammersley, Smith, Thompson and other pioneers, rather than those of Wills, that were generally overlooked. In her analysis of early football, Hibbins concludes that Thompson's journalistic ability as a promoter of the game \"probably\" makes him the most significant pioneer, and that the importance of Wills' role has been over-emphasised. Echoing Hibbins' arguments, Roy Hay writes that Wills, while a \"catalyst\" for football, was \"much more interested in playing and performing than in organising\". British historian Tony Collins even compared Wills to William Webb Ellis and Abner Doubleday, the apocryphal inventors of rugby and baseball respectively. In response to Collins' suggestion that Wills \"quickly faded from the footballing scene\", ABC journalist James Coventry drew attention to his seventeen-year playing career (by far the longest of the pioneers), the influence he wielded as captain-coach of various clubs for much of that time, and his administrative work. He concludes that Collins and other scholars have \"perversely\" devalued Wills' real contributions \"in their rush to discredit [the Marngrook theory]\".\n\n\na. Wills' birthplace is a matter of some conjecture as there is a dearth of reliable archival information on the subject, and the precise whereabouts of his parents are difficult to pinpoint during the period around 1835. Molonglo is given as his birthplace in an in which William Hammersley, the author, states that Wills had furnished him with notes. A common alternative is Parramatta. When Victorians claimed Wills as one of theirs, he liked to boast that he was a \"Sydney man\"—a reference to the colony of his birth.\n\nb. Tom had eight siblings: Emily Spencer Wills (1842–1925), Cedric Spencer Wills (1844–1914), Horace Spencer Wills (1847–1928), Egbert Spencer Wills (1849–1931), Elizabeth Spencer Wills (1852–1930), Eugenie Spencer Wills (1854–1937), Minna Spencer Wills (1856–1943) and Hortense Sarah Spencer Wills (1861–1907).\n\nc. Wills and H. C. A. Harrison shared Sarah Howe as a grandmother. Harrison was born ten months after Wills in New South Wales and as a young boy overlanded to the Port Phillip District, where he often visited the Wills family at Lexington. They became brothers-in-law in 1864 when Harrison married Emily Wills.\n\nd. The Aborigines went by sobriquets given to them by their European employers in the Western District. In Mullagh's case, he was named after the station where he worked.\n\ne. This story was related in the following piece of Wills family oral history: \"Elizabeth Wills refused to attend [the funeral] nor would she acknowledge Tom after his death as she was very religious and considered [suicide] a great sin. ... A reporter asked Elizabeth about her son. 'Which son?' she asked. 'Thomas' said the reporter. 'I have no son called Thomas' was the old lady's reply\".\n\nf. Gordon suffered a demise similar to that of Wills, committing suicide in 1870. He describes Wills as a fearsome bowler in his 1865 long poem \"Ye Wearie Wayfarer\".\n\ng. Each Indigenous language group played its own variant of football and with its own name. \"Marngrook\", from the Gunditjmara language, is used as a generic term for Aboriginal football.\nBooks\n\nJournals\n\nTheses\n\nWebpages\n"}
{"id": "2250606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2250606", "title": "W. Fox McKeithen", "text": "W. Fox McKeithen\n\nWalter Fox McKeithen (September 8, 1946 – July 16, 2005) served five terms as Secretary of State of Louisiana between 1988 and 2005. He is best known for merging the state's election divisions into one department and for the promotion of historical preservation.\n\nMcKeithen was born in rural Columbia, Louisiana to John Julian McKeithen and the former Marjorie Howell Funderburk. According to his tombstone, he was named for two World War II heroes, Walter Bennett and Elmer Fox. He graduated as class president in 1964 from Caldwell Parish High School, the same month in which his father was inaugurated as governor of Louisiana. One of his classmates was future associate justice of the Louisiana Supreme Court, Chet D. Traylor. McKeithen attended Louisiana Tech University in Ruston in Lincoln Parish to obtain a bachelor's degree in history and social studies.\n\nAfter graduating from Louisiana Tech, McKeithen returned to Caldwell Parish High School, located off U.S. Route 165, as a civics teacher and coach. He also established three businesses in Caldwell Parish.\n\nIn 1983, McKeithen was elected to the Louisiana House of Representatives as a Democrat when the incumbent Thomas \"Bud\" Brady of La Salle Parish was shifted into District 22, where he defeated sitting Representative Richard S. Thompson and former legislator W.L. Rambo. \nIn 1987, McKeithen was elected secretary of state. In the nonpartisan blanket primary, McKeithen led with 462,965 votes (34 percent) to 365,151 (27 percent) for his principal challenger, fellow Democrat Mike Cutshaw, an attorney for the Louisiana Bankers Association. Two Republican candidates, M. A. \"Mike\" Tassin and Bobby A. Patrick, shared 13 percent of the vote, and two other Democrats held a combined 19 percent. Three \"no party\" candidates polled 8 percent. In the general election, McKeithen only narrowly prevailed over Cutshaw, 490,190 (51 percent) to 467,582 (49 percent).\n\nIn the summer of 1989, McKeithen switched to the Republican Party, whose chairman, William \"Billy\" Nungesser, had courted him for a possible 1990 campaign for the United States Senate against the Democrat J. Bennett Johnston, Jr. Upon making the party switch, the GOP helped McKeithen pay off $400,000 in campaign debts.\n\nMcKeithen announced that he would run for the Senate but dropped such plans when the Republican state convention on January 13, 1990, endorsed State Senator Ben Bagert of New Orleans as the party's preferred candidate. Ultimately, Johnston was reelected in a showdown with another Republican, the maverick David Duke, a former figure in the Ku Klux Klan. Bagert left the race two days before the election at the request of national Republican leaders, who endorsed Johnston over Duke. In the 1972 general election, John McKeithen had run as an Independent for the Senate in an unsuccessful race against Johnston. Fox McKeithen's father and daughter, Marjorie A. McKeithen (born 1965), both opposed the party switch and remained Democrat.\n\nIn 1991, McKeithen faced a close contest for reelection as secretary of state. Two Democrats, Mary Chehardy (later a Republican) and Doug Schmidt, challenged him. McKeithen led in the primary, with 629,237 votes (46 percent) to Schmidt's 387,243 (28 percent). Close behind was Chehardy with 357,173 (26 percent). Schmidt, who used the expression \"Get the Fox out of the Henhouse\", advanced to the general election against McKeithen. In the showdown, McKeithen prevailed by 9,151 votes, a margin similar to David C. Treen's plurality over Democrat Louis Lambert in the 1979 gubernatorial contest. Returns gave McKeithen 827,506 votes to Schmidt's 818,355.\n\nIn subsequent elections, McKeithen was often endorsed by Democrats and worked well with members from both parties. His folksy manner meant that he was generally popular with voters despite adopting such unpopular positions as raising the pay of elected state officials. In his last race in 2003, he even carried the endorsement of organized labor, which rarely supports Republicans. During January 2004, McKeithen supervised the combining of the former elections department into the secretary of state's office.\n\nA few weeks later, when voting machines were slow to arrive in New Orleans in time for the 2004 elections, he helped to deliver them himself. McKeithen's gravestone in Caldwell Parish lists his principal accomplishments as the restoration of the Old State Capitol in Baton Rouge, the Cotton Museum in Lake Providence, the Delta Music Museum in Ferriday, and the Louisiana Exhibition Building in Shreveport.\n\nAfter a fall in the garage of his home in Baton Rouge in February 2005, McKeithen was hospitalized with paralysis from the neck down. Trouble struck again, and he re-entered the hospital on June 21 with a serious infection caused from the fall. He resigned as secretary of state on July 15, 2005, and died just a few hours later. He left his state pension to his widow, Yvonne Y. McKeithen.\n\nAlan Ray Ater, a former state representative from Ferriday in Concordia Parish became the acting secretary of state on McKeithen's death by virtue of having been the first deputy secretary of state. Ater did not seek the position in the special election held on September 30, 2006, to fill the remaining fifteen months of McKeithen's term. Late in 2006, Ater hence turned over the office to Republican state Senator Jay Dardenne (pronounced DAR DEN) of Baton Rouge. Dardenne was declared the winner of the special election after the runner-up candidate, outgoing Democratic state Senator Francis C. Heitmeier of New Orleans withdrew from a pending runoff election, which would have coincided with the November 7 national general election. In the September 30 election, Dardenne led with 30 percent of the vote. He ran up large margins in the greater Baton Rouge area and finished second in other portions of the state. Heitmeier, who ran best in liberal and labor areas of the state, trailed with 28 percent.\n\nA third candidate, the conservative former Louisiana Republican State Chairman Mike Francis of Crowley in Acadia Parish, finished with 26 percent of the ballots. He ran well in Acadiana and his native north Louisiana — he is originally from Jena in La Salle Parish - but trailed badly in Baton Rouge, New Orleans, and the Florida Parishes.\n\nIn 2006, McKeithen was inducted posthumously into the Louisiana Political Museum and Hall of Fame in Winnfield, an honor that his father had procured in 1993, having been among the first thirteen honorees.\n\n"}
{"id": "8500280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8500280", "title": "Women and the environment", "text": "Women and the environment\n\nIn the early 1960s, an interest in women and their connection with the environment was sparked, largely by a book written by Esther Boserup entitled \"Woman's Role in Economic Development\". Starting in the 1980s, policy makers and governments became more mindful of the connection between the environment and gender issues. Changes began to be made regarding natural resource and environmental management with the specific role of women in mind. According to the World Bank in 1991, \"Women play an essential role in the management of natural resources, including soil, water, forests and energy...and often have a profound traditional and contemporary knowledge of the natural world around them\". Whereas women were previously neglected or ignored, there was increasing attention paid to the impact of women on the natural environment and, in return, the effects the environment has on the health and well-being of women. The gender-environment relations have valuable ramifications in regard to the understanding of nature between men and women, the management and distribution of resources and responsibilities and the day-to-day life and well being of people.\n\nDifferent discourses have shaped the way that sustainable development is approached, and as time goes on women have become more integrated in shaping these ideas. The definition of sustainable development is highly debated itself, but is defined by Harcourt as a way to \"establish equity between generations\" and to take into account \"social, economic, and environmental needs to conserve non-renewable resources\" and decrease the amount of waste produced by industrialization. The first discourse that emerged in relation to women was Women in Development (WID), the perspective that advocated for women's status to be improved in developing countries which then transformed into Women, Environment, and Development (WED). Critiques for WID included its place in a larger western mindset, perpetuating a colonial and liberal discourse that was not compatible with supporting the global population of women. WID placed women as central actors in household, rural and market economies and looked to the hierarchical institution of western development to fix the issues that arise because of this.\n\nThe next shift in discourse took place in the early 1970s, where people began to critique the roots of development and start to look at alternative ways to go about interacting with the global community and developing countries, with women and the environment as central actors. This was defined as Women, Environment, Development (WED). According to Schultz et al., \"The women, environment and development debate (WED-debate) is anchored in a critical view of development policies where the link between modernization/industrialization and technology on the one hand and environmental deterioration on the other is focused\". WED discourse is centralized around the synthesis of different ideologies, one of which being ecofeminism. Ecofeminism may be seen as a root ideology for WED, whereas women are viewed with a biological connection to nature that enables them to have a deeper connection and stewardship of it. This ideology was transformed into the political sphere where it took a new shape as women having a socially constructed connection to nature through our global systems.\n\nPrograms started in the 1990s based on the WED discourse and were instituted by the United Nations International Research Training Institute for the Advancement of Women (INSTRAW). These programs were in response to the relation between gender and environmental violences such as waste disposal, pesticide use nuclear testing and other detrimental environmental practices.\n\nThe outcome of many of these programs did not produce the desired impacts on women. The WED discourse placed emphasis on women as solution holders to environmental issues but policies were not directed at empowering women, rather the sectors that women are involved in, such as agriculture. Leach argues that the overall impact of politicizing the role of women and the environment through the WED discourse appropriated women's labor without providing proper resources or capacity to succeed.\n\nIn a majority of the world, women are responsible for farm work and related domestic food production. An increasing number of women are taking over and expanding their involvement in agricultural tasks but this has not changed the gender division of labor with regard to reproductive work. Esther Boserup looked into the farming systems of men and women in Africa and found that \"in many African tribes, nearly all the tasks connected with food production continue to be left to women\". Schultz \"et al.\" (2001), found that \"90% of women in the developing world, where most of the planet's biological wealth is found, depend on their land for survival. Women head 30% of the households in developing countries, 80% of food production in sub-Saharan Africa is done by women, 60% in Asia and 50% in Latin America. Even though women are largely responsible for the actual agricultural work performed, men, generally own the land, therefore controlling women's labor upon the land. \n\nEsther Boserup examined the farming systems of men and women in Africa and found that \"in many African tribes, nearly all the tasks connected with food production continue to be left to women\". In Botswana, men typically have greater access to advanced technologies and plowing abilities. Zambia also has a high percentage of women farmers yet they are not explicitly recognize and often neglected entirely. Consistent lack of access to credit, mobility, technological advancements, and land ownership further complicate women's agricultural roles. A group of women in Kenya began farming trees way before climate change was prioritized because they had seen what happens to lands that are depleted of its nutrients and the adverse effects.\n\nIn Peru, women often participate in food production and family farming yet they do not generally benefit directly from their labor. Their work is not considered as valuable as men's. Women in the Caribbean have always been associated with agriculture and do have access to land ownership. However, women still do not have the same access to technology as men and generally have smaller plots of land. \n\nThe dependence on nature and the environment for survival is common among Third World women. It has been argued by environmental feminists that this dependence creates a deeply rooted connection between women and their surroundings. The dependency women have on natural resources, based on their responsibilities, creates a specific interest that may be different from the interests of men. Jiggins et al. suggests that the views women have on nature are unique in that they connect the land to immediate survival and concern for future generations rather than simply looking at the land as a resource with monetary value. With the development of newer technologies since the 1940s, there has been a shift to more non-farm activities, however, men more than women are the ones participating in the shift, leaving women behind. It has been projected that the continuation of men shifting to urban livelihoods, more and more women will be depended on to maintain the household by farming.Especially during the neoliberal policy regime in Latin America, with the increasing use of exports, women were ideal for their ‘gendered skills,’ they were paid less for their farming labor and not likely to organize, coining the term ‘feminization of responsibility.’ Issues such as climate change could have a greater impact on women because the land they farm will be negatively affected.\n\nIn the Asian and Pacific Island regions, 58% of women involved in the economy are found in the agriculture sector. This involves work in own-account farms, labor in small enterprises for processing fruits, vegetables and fish, paid and unpaid work on other peoples land, and collecting forest products. \nOut of all the women working in this sector, 10–20% have been found to have tenure to the land they work on. Reasons for this number include economic and legal barriers. For example, in terms of loans women are found to get fewer and less loans to acquire land then men.\n\nOne other factor that plays into women’s land rights for agriculture is the cultural norms of the area. In the Asian and the Pacific women’s societal rolls have been defined by patriarchal norms of the larger global society, where men are viewed as breadwinners and women are viewed as caretakers. This can be expressed through the number of hours women spend doing unpaid care work per day. In developing countries in total, women spend 4 hours and 30 minutes of care work a day versus the 1 hour and 2 minutes that men spend.\n\nIn many parts of the world, specifically developing countries, there is a great deal of inequality when it comes to land ownership. Traditional practices and bureaucratic factors often prevent women's access to natural resource development and management. Frequently, women do not have the right to own land and/or property, but they often are the ones who tend to the land. Bina Agarwal, has written a great deal about gender and land rights in Third World countries and according to her, \"Hence, insofar as there is a gender and class-based division of labor and distribution of property and power, gender and class structure people's interactions with nature and so structure the effects of environmental change on people and their responses to it.\" Women's access to control of natural resources, land ownership and property management is a developing issue and is the subject of continuous debate in both the environmental realm and women's rights movement.\n\n\"World wide, physical violence by husbands against wives is estimated to range between 10% and 50% (p824)\". It is difficult to pinpoint the causes of marital violence but economic dependence is widely acknowledged as one of the main sources. Land or property ownership provides women who may be experiencing marital violence with a credible exit option. Land ownership creates a means of production of both income and power. A study performed in Kerala, India examined the effects of property status and the likelihood of violence against women. Close to 500 women were surveyed about a number of happenings in the household such as the amount of longterm and current violence that occurred, women's ownership of the land or house, and other sociodemographic characteristics. The violence that occurs can be physical, such as hitting or kicking or psychological, such as threats or belittlement. Long-term violence, or violence that had been occurring throughout the entirety of the marriage, was experienced by 41% of women in rural households, while 27% of urban household women reported violence in various forms. Current violence, or violence occurring within 12 months of the time of survey was experienced by 29% in a physical capacity and 49% experienced psychological violence.\n\nOf all the women surveyed, 35% did not own any property and of that 35%, 49% experienced physical violence while 84% experienced psychological violence. The amount of violence was significantly lower in households where women owned land or property. According to this particular study, women's access to land and property ownership reduces the risk of spousal abuse by enhancing the livelihood of women as well as providing an escape route and means for survival if abuse begins. In many developing countries, where marital violence is prominent, barriers such as unequal laws and social and administrative bias keep women from owning land and property. A vast number of women are left out of owning immovable property (land or house) furthering their likelihood of experiencing marital violence. (Chowdhry). It can also be argued that land rights greatly shape an individuals relationship with nature and the environment.\n\nThe WED debate has examined the correlation between the degradation of the environment and the subordination of women. Carolyn Merchant and Vandana Shiva wrote that there is a connection between dominance of women and dominance of nature. Shiva said, \"The rupture within nature and between man and nature, and its associated transformation from a life-force that sustains to an exploitable resource characterizes the Cartesian view which has displaced more ecological world-views and created a development paradigm which cripples nature and woman simultaneously\". Exploitation of women's labor as well as the abuse of natural environment are connected as they are both marginalized within the economy. Both the environment and women have been viewed as exploitable resources that are significantly undervalued. This argument supports ecofeminism in that women in developing countries rely on nature to survive, therefore, destruction of the environment results in elimination of women's method to survival. According to Jiggins, environmental degradation effects women the most, furthering the inequalities between men and women. One study showed that new developments in technology and developments in land access are denied to women, furthering their subordination and inequality.\n\nEcofeminism says that women are closer to nature than men are. This closeness, therefore, makes women more nurturing and caring towards their environment. Ecofeminism encompasses a variety of views but has a focus of patriarchal oppression and the social constructions relating to women and the environment. Some indicate the biology of women as the reason behind the closeness, while others credit culture and historical factors. An ecofeminist believes in a direct connection between oppression of nature and the subordination of women. Vandana Shiva, is credited with bringing ecofeminism into public consciousness by her reports of the Chipko movement.\nThe Chipko movement also led to the formation of anti alcoholism.\n\nEnvironmental or ecological feminism differs from ecofeminism in that it is more focused on the actual, specific interactions with the environment. Connections between environment and gender can be made by looking at the gender division of labor and environmental roles rather than an inherent connection with nature. The gender division of labor requires a more nurturing and caring role for women, therefore that caring nature places women closer with the environment. The knowledge of nature is shaped by the experiences an individual has. Women have a distinct knowledge of the land, yet are excluded from policy decisions of development on that land. This is prominent in many developing countries where the responsibility of collecting fuel and fodder is placed upon the women. Both the resources and the meanings are taken into consideration with environmental feminism. There is a challenge to not only focus on the gender division of labor but also the actual appropriation methods of the resources. In other words, there is not simply an inherent connection between women and nature, rather there are material realities that exist. Bina Agarwal opposes ecofeminism and outlines three problematic elements which are:\n\nBina Agarwal has critiqued the ideas of environmental feminism. She proposes problems with welfare, efficiency, and source of land. \n\nDue to gender differences in income-spending patterns, women are at a higher risk of living in poverty. For this reason, access to land is of special importance. Land access allows for a number of production advantages such as growing trees, fodder and/or crops. But, land access also allows for increased credit, bargaining power and strengthens aggregate real wages rates. Even the smallest amount of land can have huge impacts on welfare directly as well as increasing entitlement to family welfare.\n\n\nBecause public land available for distribution is now quite limited, most of the land will need to come from private sectors. \"To get a share of land, therefore, it is critical for women to stake a claim in privatised land\".\n\nFeminist political ecology builds from ecofeminism and environmental feminism and lays out three essential factors which are: \n\nFeminist political ecology seeks to discover the role and place of women in environmental development on a political scale.\n\nSweden has historically had a political culture that inherently protects the environment. Sweden is one of the highest-ranking countries when assessing gender equality, but the government does agree there is room for improvement. Women in Sweden have been empowered to protect the environment through the government and policies, a lot like other developed nations. In Sweden, the majority of local government workers are women at 64% and since the 2010 election, 45% of Swedish parliament is made up of women. The government has recognized that women are the most affected by climate change and environmental degradation. Through this recognition they have committed to contribute to increasing the participation for women in decisions and policy debates surrounding climate change and other environmental issues. They also have committed to increasing resources for women in civil society who present issues about the environment, hoping to increase accountability and transparency. Peterson and Merchant draw on the idea that the women's environmental movement in Sweden was based on both symbolic and political perspectives. In the early stages of the environmental movement and women’s movement in Sweden, women were very aware that changes had to be made both within society and ideologies, then enacted politically to create a cohesive collective society.\n\nElin Wagner (1882–1949) presented herself as a radical feminist in early movements. She was a writer, journalist, environmentalist, ecologist and pacifist. She was a large inspiration for the environmental and feminist movements. She saw a large flaw in the popular ideology after World War II: that men had the ability to control and conserve nature for the entire global community or all of mankind. With a place in both politics and writing, she was inspired to write her novel, \"Alarm Clock\". Her novel was barely noticed when released in 1941, but during Sweden's women's movement in the 1970s, her messages became a driving force behind the movement. She believed that there should be a large presence of intellectuals in social movements. Wagner and other key Swedish feminist scholars and intellectuals of that time shaped the parameters of Swedish thinking and both the environmental and women's movements. Throughout her life, Wagner stressed the importance of nature and the environment, an idea we see through the identity of Sweden.\n\nSweden has it ingrained in both their identity and traditions to have a deep sense of nature, which has played a huge role in shaping the overall consensus of the country to protect the environment, especially for women. Through the transformation of the opinion and ideologies of the Swedish people, it became much easier to entrench environmental policies. Women working within institutions protected the global environment by pushing for bans on nuclear energy or industry degrading local environment. In 1980, there was a national referendum on nuclear power in Sweden. The voting patterns revealed that 43% of women were against nuclear power, while only 21% of men opposed it. Sweden and the women of the country have demonstrated that environmental protection can be achieved through transitioning ideologies followed by institutional change.\n\nThe deep connection between women and men comes from the daily interaction between them. In recent decades, environmental movements have increased as the movements for women's rights have also increased. Today's union of nature preservation with women's rights and liberation has stemmed from invasion of their rights in the past.\n\nIn developing areas of the world, women are considered the primary users of natural resources (Land, forest, and water), because they are the ones who are responsible for gathering food, fuel, and fodder. Although in these countries, women mostly can't own the land and farms outright, they are the ones who spend most of their time working on the farms to feed the household. Shouldering this responsibility leads them to learn more about soil, plants, and trees and not misuse them. Although, technological inputs increase male involvement with land, many of them leave the farm to go to cities to find jobs; so women become increasingly responsible for an increasing portion of farm tasks. These rural women tend to have a closer relationship with land and other natural resources, which promotes a new culture of respectful use and preservation of natural resources and the environment, ensuring that the following generations can meet their needs. Besides considering how to achieve appropriate agricultural production and human nutrition, women want to secure access to the land. Women's perspectives and values for the environment are somewhat different from men's. Women give greater priority to protection of and improving the capacity of nature, maintaining farming lands, and caring for nature and environment's future. Repeated studies have shown that women have a stake in environment, and this stake is reflected in the degree to which they care about natural resources. Ecofeminism refers to women's and feminist perspectives on the environment – where the domination and exploitation of women, of poorly resourced peoples and of nature is at the heart of the ecofeminist movement.\n\nMany of the environmental effects of climate change have disproportionately placed women in more vulnerable circumstances. Environmental occurrences that affect the activities women are found to be mainly responsible for in developing countries include increase in storm frequency and intensity, increase in floods, droughts, and fires. The Indian Government's National Action Plan on Climate Change said \"The impacts of climate change could prove particularly severe for women. With climate change there would be increasing scarcity of water, reductions in yields of forest biomass, and increased risks to human health with children, women and the elderly in a household becoming the most vulnerable. ...special attention should be paid to the aspects of gender.\" For example, in the Pacific Islands and coastal areas of Asia women are strongly engaged in subsistence fishing as well as collection of food in local habitats. These habitats, such as mangroves, seagrass beds, and lagoons are all being negatively influenced by a changing climate, creating barriers in the direct work of women which then ripple out to their community.\n\nThe subsequent response to the connection between women and climate change has evoked multiple responses in the policy realm. Policy makers have shifted policy to reflect gender sensitive frameworks to address climate change.\nArora-Jonsson argues that by focusing on the vulnerability of women in relation to climate change, it places more responsibility on women and shifts the narrative to ignore the root causes of the issue, power relations and institutional inequality. The outcome of UN movements and policies for promoting women in areas impacted by climate change such as agriculture have not been scientifically proven to have any beneficial results on women communities.\n\nGiven the environmental degradation caused while men have had dominance over women, and women's large investment in environmental sustainability, some have theorized that women would protect the Earth better than men if in power. Although there is no evidence for this hypothesis, recent movements have shown that women are more sensitive to the earth and its problems. They have created a special value system about environmental issues. People's approaches to environmental issues may depend on their relationship with nature. Both women and nature have been considered as subordinates entities by men throughout history, which conveys a close affiliation between them.\n\nHistorically, the perception of the natural environment between men and women differs: women tend to perceive natural resources in means of necessity, while men perceive it in means of \"commercial entities or income generating tools.\" As an example, rural Indian women collect the dead branches which are cut by storm for fuel wood to use rather than cutting the live trees. Since African, Asian, and Latin American women use the land to produce food for their family, they acquire the knowledge of the land/soil conditions, water, and other environmental features. Any changes in the environment on these areas, like deforestation, have the most effect on women of that area, and cause them to suffer until they can cope with these changes. One of the good examples would be the Nepali women whose grandmothers had to climb to the mountain to be able to bring in wood and fodder.\n\nAn example of female prominence in the defense of natural forests comes from India in 1906. As forest clearing was expanding conflict between loggers and government and peasant communities increased. To thwart resistance to the forest clearing, the men were diverted from their villages to a fictional payment compensation site and loggers were sent to the forests. The women left in the villages, however, protested by physically hugging themselves to the trees to prevent their being cut down, giving rise to what is now called the Chipko movement, an environmentalist movement initiated by these Indian women (which also is where the term tree-huggers originated). This conflict started because men wanted to cut the trees to use them for industrial purposes while women wanted to keep them since it was their food resource and deforestation was a survival matter for local people.\n\nGender-based commitments and movements such as feminism have reached to a new approach through the combination of feminism and environmentalism called Ecofeminism. Ecofeminists believe on the interconnection between the domination of women and nature. According to ecofeminism the superior power treats all subordinates the same. So, ecofeminism takes into account women subordination and nature degradation. Remarking all these different reactions, one can see that however, most policy decision makers are men.\n\nMei Ng was born in Hong Kong, China and she received her B.A. in Anthropology from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1972 and has worked diligently to promote environmental awareness throughout China. Mei Ng is an advocate of responsible consumption, renewable energy utilization, and sustainable development through the women and youth of China, and works to mobilize women to defend the environment and to bring environmental education to all parts of China. She previously held the position of Director for Friends of the Earth (HK) in Hong Kong, an environmental organization which seeks to encourage environmental protection in China. In 2001, she was appointed to the Advisory Council on the Environment. In 2002, Mei Ng was elected to the United Nations Global 500 Roll of Honor on World Environment Day. Also in 2002, she was appointed by the Chinese State Environmental Protection Agency as China Environment Envoy. In 2003, the Hong Kong SAR Government awarded her the Bronze Bauhinia Star, and in 2004, she was appointed to become a member of the Harbour Enhancement Committee. She founded the Earth Station, Hong Kong's first renewable energy education center, which has been well received by policy makers and citizens alike.\n\nVandana Shiva was born on November 5, 1952, in India. Vandana Shiva has a B.S. in Physics, a M.A. in philosophy from the University of Guelph (Ontario, Canada) and received her Ph.D. from the University of Western Ontario in Quantum Theory Physics. Vandana Shiva is an environmental scholar and activist who campaigns for women in India as well as around the world. As a physicist-environmentalist adhering to ecofeminism, Vandana Shiva has published numerous papers on the unequal burden placed on women by environmental degradation, stating that women and children \"bore the costs but were excluded from the benefits\" of development. Vandana Shiva is also an active voice for localized, organic agriculture. She began a movement entitled Navdanya where participating Indian farmers have created 'freedom zones' to revitalize an organic food market in India. She has received many honorary degrees awards. In 1993 she received the Right Livelihood Award. In 2010 Sydney Peace Prize and in 2011 she received the Calgary Peace Prize. In addition, Vandana Shiva was named \"one of the 7 most influential women in the world\" by Forbes.\n\nIn 1940 Wangari Maathai was born in Nyeri, Kenya. She attended Mount St. Scholastica College in Kansas and received her degree in biological sciences in 1964. This was a part of the 1960 'Kennedy Airlift' which brought 300 Kenyans (including Barack Obama's father Barack Obama, Sr.) to the United States to study at American universities. She then obtained her M.S. from University of Pittsburgh in 1966 and her Ph.D. from the University of Nairobi. She was the first woman in East and Central Africa to earn a doctorate degree. Wangari Maathai was an advocate for human rights, preaching the necessity for democracy. Her passion for environmental conservation lead her to found the Greenbelt Movement in 1977. Wangari Maathai's personal life was turbulent with divorce and jailings, as well as constant confrontations with the Kenyan government. Her push to protect national land from development made her less than favorable to Kenyan president Daniel arap Moi, who served from 1978 to 2002. In 2004, Wangari Maathai received the Nobel Peace Prize, making her the first African woman to win. On September 25, 2011 Wangari Maathai died of ovarian cancer. BBC World News noted this as a 'Death of Visionary'.\n\nMaria Cherkasova (b. 1938) is a Russian journalist, ecologist, and director of Centre for Independent Ecological Programmers (CIEP). She is known for coordinating a 4-year campaign to stop construction of hydro-electric dam on the Katun River. After Cherkasova's involvement in the student movement on environmental protection in the 1960s, she began to work for the Red Data Book for the Department of Environmental Protection Institute. She researched and preserved rare species until she became the editor of USSR Red Data Book. She co-founded the Socio-Ecological Union, which has become the largest ecological NGO in the former Soviet Union. In 1990, she became director of CIEP, which arrange and drives activities in an extensive range of ecologically related areas on both domestic and international fronts. Cherkasova recently has shifted her focus on protecting children's rights to live in a healthy environment and speaks for them both inside and outside Russia.\n\nRachel Carson (1907–1964) was an American scientist, writer, and ecologist. Rachel Carson went to the Pennsylvania College for Women, majoring in English, but she was inspired by her biology teacher so she switched her major to biology. She became more interested and focused on the sea while she was working at the Marine Biological Laboratories in Massachusetts. Her eloquent prose let to the publication of her first book, \"Under the Sea-Wind: a Naturalists' Picture of Ocean Life\", in 1941. In 1949 she became chief editor of the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS). Her second book, \"The Sea Around Us\", won the National Book Award and sold more than 200,000 copies. After that she retired from FWS and became a full-time writer. After her third and final book about the sea, \"The Edge of the Sea\", Carson focused on effects of chemicals and pesticides on the environment. That is when she wrote her book about environment, \"Silent Spring\". The book was about what man has done to the nature and eventually to himself, and started a modern environmental movement. Carson believed that humanity and nature are mutually dependent on each other. She argued that industrial activities such as pesticides use can damages the earth ecosystem and will have far-reaching ecological consequences such as future human health problems. Today, scientific studies have demonstrated these consequences.\n\nJane Goodall (b. 1934) is a female environmentalist most well known for her chimpanzee study, in which she lived among the primates. She became interested in animals as a young child and spent her early adulthood saving money to fund her dream of taking a trip to Africa. Her position as secretary to Louis Leakey led to her participation in several anthropological digs and animal studies, and eventually she was selected to study chimpanzee behavior in Tanzania. She made several discoveries about the behavior of chimpanzees on these studies and is credited with discovering the chimpanzee behavior of eating meet and creating tools. She published a book about the study entitled \"In the Shadow of Man\". She is also known for her activism, promoting the preservation of wild chimpanzee environments and opposing the use of animals in research. She has received numerous awards for her achievements and owns the Jane Goodall Institute for Wildlife Research, Education, and Conservation, a nonprofit organization.\n\nOne of the first environmentalist movement which was inspired by women was the Chipko movement (Women tree-huggers in India). \"Its name comes from a Hindi word meaning \"to stick\" (as in glue). The movement was an act of defiance against the state government's permission given to a corporation for commercial logging. Women of the villages resisted, embracing trees to prevent their felling to safeguard their lifestyles which were dependent on the forests. Deforestation could qualitatively alter the lives of all village residents but it was the women who agitated for saving [End Page 163] the forests. Organized by a non-governmental organization that Chandi Prasad Bhatt led, the Chipko movement adopted the slogan \"ecology is permanent economy\". The women embracing the trees did not tag their action as feminist activism; however, as a movement that demonstrated resistance against oppression, it had all the markings of such.\"\n\nIt began when Maharajah of Jodhpur wanted to build a new palace in Rajasthan, which is India's Himalayan foothills. While the axemen were cutting the trees, martyr Amrita Devi hugged one of the trees. This is because in Jodhpur, each child had a tree that could talk to it. The axmen ignored Devi, and after taking her off the tree, cut it down. Her daughters are environmentalists like Chandi Prasad Bhatt and Sunderlal Bahuguna.\n\nAnother movement, which is one of the biggest in women and environmental history, is the Green Belt movement. Nobel Prize winner Wangari Maathai founded this movement on the World Environment Day in June 1977. The starting ceremony was very simple: a few women planted seven trees in Maathai's backyard. By 2005, 30 million trees had been planted by participants in the Green Belt movement on public and private lands. The Green Belt movement aims to bring environmental restoration along with society's economic growth. This movement led by Maathai focused on restoration of Kenya's rapidly diminishing forests as well as empowering the rural women through environmental preservation, with a special emphasis on planting indigenous trees.\n\nNavdanya also known as the 'Nine Seeds Movement' seeks to empower local Indian farmers to move away from growing any genetically modified organism (GMOs) on their land and return to organic, chemical-free practices. This movement has reached over 5,000,000 Indian farmers and created over 65 seed banks around India. Navdanya fights to eliminate the commercialization of indigenous knowledge also known as 'Biopiracy'. Navdanya addresses multiple other international issues including climate change, food security, misapplication of technology, food sovereignty, fair trade, and many others. This movement also created a learning center entitled Bija Vidyapeeth. Bija Vidyapeeth, in collaboration with Schumacher College in the United Kingdom, seeks to educate participants in sustainability and ecological principles.\n\nIn Kenya, starting in the mid-1980s, women protested against the elites and big foreign corporations who were coercing and controlling the production of the land. Rather than allowing food to be grown for survival, women were pressured by both their husbands and the government to cultivate coffee for foreign profit. Protests continued and gained strength over the next couple of decades. The protests eventually ended in a Kenyan power shift enforcing democratic national elections which resulted in redistribution of land possible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "435497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435497", "title": "Yugoslav Wars", "text": "Yugoslav Wars\n\nThe Yugoslav Wars were a series of separate, but related ethnic conflicts, wars of independence and insurgencies fought from 1991 in the former Yugoslavia which led to the breakup of the Yugoslav state. Its constituent republics declared independence, despite unresolved tensions between ethnic minorities in the new countries, fueling the wars.\n\nMost of the wars ended through peace accords, involving full international recognition of new states, but with a massive human cost and economic damage to the region. Initially the Yugoslav People's Army (JNA) sought to preserve the unity of the whole of Yugoslavia by crushing the secessionist governments but it increasingly came under the influence of the Serbian government of Slobodan Milošević that evoked Serbian nationalist rhetoric and was willing to use the Yugoslav cause to preserve the unity of Serbs in one state. As a result, the JNA began to lose Slovenes, Croats, Kosovar Albanians, Bosniaks, and ethnic Macedonians, and effectively became a Serb army. According to the 1994 United Nations report, the Serb side did not aim to restore Yugoslavia, but to create a \"Greater Serbia\" from parts of Croatia and Bosnia. Other irredentist movements have also been brought into connection with the wars, such as \"Greater Albania\" and \"Greater Croatia\".\n\nOften described as Europe's deadliest conflicts since World War II, the wars were marked by many war crimes, including genocide, crimes against humanity and rape. The Bosnian genocide was the first European crime since World War II to be formally judged as genocidal in character and many key individual participants were subsequently charged with war crimes. The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) was established by the UN to prosecute these crimes.\n\nAccording to the International Center for Transitional Justice, the Yugoslav Wars resulted in the death of 140,000 people. The Humanitarian Law Center estimates that in the conflicts in the former Yugoslav republics at least 130,000 people were killed.\n\nThe war(s) have alternatively been called:\n\nClear ethnic conflict between the Yugoslav peoples only became prominent in the 20th century, beginning with tensions over the constitution of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes in the early 1920s and escalating into violence between Serbs and Croats in the late 1920s after the assassination of Croatian politician Stjepan Radić. During World War II the Croatian Ustaše committed a number of atrocities against the Serbs and Serbian Chetniks against the Croats and Bosniaks. The Yugoslav Partisan movement was able to appeal to all groups, including Serbs, Croats, and Bosniaks. In Serbia and Serb-dominated territories, violent confrontations occurred, particularly between nationalists and non-nationalists who criticized the Serbian government and the Serb political entities in Bosnia and Croatia. Serbs who publicly opposed the nationalist political climate during the Yugoslav wars were reportedly harassed, threatened, or killed.\n\nThe nation of Yugoslavia was created in the aftermath of World War I, and it was mostly composed of South Slavic Christians, but the nation also had a substantial Muslim minority. This nation lasted from 1918 to 1941, when it was invaded by the Axis powers during World War II, which provided support to the Ustaše (founded in 1929), which conducted a genocidal campaign against Serbs, Jews and Roma inside its territory and the Chetniks, who also conducted their own campaign of ethnic cleansing and genocide towards ethnic Croats and Bosniaks, while also supporting the reinstating of the Serbian royals. In 1945, the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) was established under Josip Broz Tito, who maintained a strongly authoritarian leadership that suppressed nationalism. After Tito's death in 1980, relations among the six republics of the SFRY deteriorated. Slovenia and Croatia desired greater autonomy within the Yugoslav confederation, while Serbia sought to strengthen federal authority. As it became clearer that there was no solution agreeable to all parties, Slovenia and Croatia moved toward secession. Although tensions in Yugoslavia had been mounting since the early 1980s, it was 1990 that proved decisive. In the midst of economic hardship, Yugoslavia was facing rising nationalism among its various ethnic groups. By the early 1990s, there was no effective authority at the federal level. The Federal Presidency consisted of the representatives of the six republics, two provinces, and the Yugoslav People's Army (JNA). The communist leadership was divided along national lines.\nThe representatives of Vojvodina, Kosovo and Montenegro were replaced with loyalists of the President of Serbia, Slobodan Milošević. Serbia secured four out of eight federal presidency votes and was able to heavily influence decision-making at the federal level, since all the other Yugoslav republics only had one vote. While Slovenia and Croatia wanted to allow a multi-party system, Serbia, led by Milošević, demanded an even more centralized federation and Serbia's dominant role in it. At the 14th Extraordinary Congress of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia in January 1990, the Serbian-dominated assembly agreed to abolish the single-party system; however, Slobodan Milošević, the head of the Serbian Party branch (League of Communists of Serbia) used his influence to block and vote-down all other proposals from the Croatian and Slovene party delegates. This prompted the Croatian and Slovene delegations to walk out and thus the break-up of the party, a symbolic event representing the end of \"brotherhood and unity\".\n\nUpon Croatia and Slovenia declaring independence in 1991, the Yugoslav federal government attempted to forcibly halt the impending breakup of the country, with Yugoslav Prime Minister Ante Marković declaring the secessions of Slovenia and Croatia to be illegal and contrary to the constitution of Yugoslavia, and declared support for the Yugoslav People's Army to secure the integral unity of Yugoslavia.\n\nAccording to Stephen A. Hart, author of \"Partisans: War in the Balkans 1941–1945\", the ethnically mixed region of Dalmatia held close and amicable relations between the Croats and Serbs who lived there in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Many early proponents of a united Yugoslavia came from this region, such as Ante Trumbić, a Croat from Dalmatia. However, by the time of the outbreak of the Yugoslav Wars, any hospitable relations between Croats and Serbs in Dalmatia had broken down, with Dalmatian Serbs fighting on the side of the Republic of Serbian Krajina.\n\nEven though the policies throughout the entire socialist period of Yugoslavia seemed to have been the same (namely that all Serbs should live in one state), Dejan Guzina argues that \"different contexts in each of the subperiods of socialist Serbia and Yugoslavia yielded entirely different results (e.g., in favor of Yugoslavia, or in favor of a Greater Serbia)\". He assumes that the Serbian policy changed from conservative–socialist at the beginning to xenophobic nationalist in the late 1980s and 1990s.\n\nThe first of the conflicts, known as the Ten-Day War, was initiated by the JNA (Yugoslav People's Army) on 26 June 1991 after the secession of Slovenia from the federation on 25 June 1991.\n\nInitially, the federal government ordered the Yugoslav People's Army to secure border crossings in Slovenia. Slovenian police and Slovenian Territorial Defence blockaded barracks and roads, leading to stand-offs and limited skirmishes around the republic. After several dozen casualties, the limited conflict was stopped through negotiation at Brioni on 7 July 1991, when Slovenia and Croatia agreed to a three-month moratorium on secession. The Federal army completely withdrew from Slovenia by 26 October 1991.\n\nFighting in Croatia had begun weeks prior to the Ten-Day War in Slovenia. The Croatian War of Independence began when Serbs in Croatia, who were opposed to Croatian independence, announced their secession from Croatia.\n\nAfter the 1990 parliamentary elections in Croatia, Franjo Tuđman came to power and became the first President of Croatia. He promoted nationalist policies and had a primary goal of the establishment of an independent Croatia. The new government proposed constitutional changes, reinstated the traditional Croatian flag and coat of arms and removed the term \"Socialist\" from the title of the republic. In an attempt to counter changes made to the constitution, local Serb politicians organized a referendum on \"Serb sovereignty and autonomy\" in August 1990. Their boycott escalated into an insurrection in areas populated by ethnic Serbs, mostly around Knin, known as the Log Revolution. Local police in Knin sided with the growing Serbian insurgency, while many government employees, mostly in police where commanding positions were mainly held by Serbs and Communists, lost their jobs. The new Croatian constitution was ratified in December 1990, when the Serb National Council proclaimed the SAO Krajina.\n\nEthnic tensions rose, fueled by propaganda in both Croatia and Serbia. On 2 May 1991, one of the first armed clashes between Serb paramilitaries and Croatian police occurred in the Battle of Borovo Selo. On 19 May an independence referendum was held, which was largely boycotted by Croatian Serbs, and the majority voted in favour of the independence of Croatia. Croatia declared independence and dissolved its association with Yugoslavia on 25 June 1991. Due to the Brioni Agreement, a three-month moratorium was placed on the implementation of the decision that ended on 8 October.\n\nThe armed incidents of early 1991 escalated into an all-out war over the summer, with fronts formed around the areas of the breakaway SAO Krajina. The JNA had disarmed the Territorial Units of Slovenia and Croatia prior to the declaration of independence, at the behest of Serbian President Slobodan Milošević. This was aggravated further by an arms embargo, imposed by the UN on Yugoslavia. The JNA was ostensibly ideologically unitarian, but its officer corps was predominantly staffed by Serbs or Montenegrins (70 percent). As a result, the JNA opposed Croatian independence and sided with the Croatian Serb rebels. The Croatian Serb rebels were unaffected by the embargo as they had the support of and access to supplies of the JNA. By mid-July 1991, the JNA moved an estimated 70,000 troops to Croatia. The fighting rapidly escalated, eventually spanning hundreds of square kilometers from western Slavonia through Banija to Dalmatia.\n\nBorder regions faced direct attacks from forces within Serbia and Montenegro. In August 1991, the Battle of Vukovar began, where fierce fighting took place with around 1,800 Croat fighters blocking JNA's advance into Slavonia. By the end of October, the town was almost completely devastated from land shelling and air bombardment. The Siege of Dubrovnik started in October with the shelling of UNESCO world heritage site Dubrovnik, where the international press was criticised for focusing on the city's architectural heritage, instead of reporting the destruction of Vukovar in which many civilians were killed. On 18 November 1991 the battle of Vukovar ended after the city ran out of ammunition. The Ovčara massacre occurred shortly after Vukovar's capture by the JNA. Meanwhile, control over central Croatia was seized by Croatian Serb forces in conjunction with the JNA Corps from Bosnia and Herzegovina, under the leadership of Ratko Mladić.\n\nIn January 1992, the Vance Plan proclaimed UN controlled (UNPA) zones for Serbs in territory claimed by Serbian rebels as the Republic of Serbian Krajina (RSK) and brought an end to major military operations, though sporadic artillery attacks on Croatian cities and occasional intrusions of Croatian forces into UNPA zones continued until 1995. The fighting in Croatia ended in mid-1995, after Operation Flash and Operation Storm. At the end of these operations, Croatia had reclaimed all of its territory except the UNPA Sector East portion of Slavonia, bordering Serbia. Most of the Serb population in the reclaimed areas became refugees, and these operations led to war crimes trials by the ICTY against elements of the Croatian military leadership in the Trial of Gotovina et al. Generals Ante Gotovina and Mladen Markač were found guilty of \"war crimes and crimes against humanity\" in the first instance verdict, but were acquitted on appeal in 2012. The areas of \"Sector East\", unaffected by the Croatian military operations, came under UN administration (UNTAES), and were reintegrated to Croatia in 1998 under the terms of the Erdut Agreement.\n\nIn 2007, Milan Martić, former president of RSK, was sentenced to 35 years imprisonment as part of a joint criminal enterprise against the non-Serb population of Croatia. Milan Babić, the first President of RSK, pleaded guilty and was sentenced by the ICTY to 13 years in prison.\n\nIn 1992, conflict engulfed Bosnia and Herzegovina. The war was predominantly a territorial conflict between the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina chiefly supported by Bosniaks, the self-proclaimed Bosnian Serb entity Republika Srpska, and the self-proclaimed Herzeg-Bosnia, who were led and supplied by Serbia and Croatia respectively, reportedly with a goal of the partition of Bosnia.\n\nThe Yugoslav armed forces had disintegrated into a largely Serb-dominated military force. Opposed to the Bosnian-majority led government's agenda for independence, and along with other armed nationalist Serb militant forces, the JNA attempted to prevent Bosnian citizens from voting in the 1992 referendum on independence. This did not succeed in persuading people not to vote and instead the intimidating atmosphere combined with a Serb boycott of the vote resulted in a resounding 99% vote in support for independence.\n\nOn 19 June 1992, the war in Bosnia broke out, though the Siege of Sarajevo had already begun in April after Bosnia and Herzegovina had declared independence. The conflict, typified by the years-long Sarajevo siege and Srebrenica, was by far the bloodiest and most widely covered of the Yugoslav wars. Bosnia's Serb faction led by ultra-nationalist Radovan Karadžić promised independence for all Serb areas of Bosnia from the majority-Bosniak government of Bosnia. To link the disjointed parts of territories populated by Serbs and areas claimed by Serbs, Karadžić pursued an agenda of systematic ethnic cleansing primarily against Bosnians through massacre and forced removal of Bosniak populations.\n\nAt the end of 1992, tensions between Bosnian Croats and Bosniaks rose and their collaboration fell apart. In January 1993, the two former allies engaged in open conflict, resulting in the Croat–Bosniak War. In 1994 the US brokered peace between Croatian forces and the Bosnian Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Washington Agreement. After the successful Flash and Storm operations, the Croatian Army and the combined Bosnian and Croat forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, conducted an operation codenamed Operation Mistral to push back Bosnian Serb military gains.\n\nTogether with NATO air strikes on the Bosnian Serbs, the successes on the ground put pressure on the Serbs to come to the negotiating table. Pressure was put on all sides to stick to the cease-fire and negotiate an end to the war in Bosnia. The war ended with the signing of the Dayton Agreement on 14 December 1995, with the formation of Republika Srpska as an entity within Bosnia and Herzegovina being the resolution for Bosnian Serb demands.\n\nThe Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in the United States reported in April 1995 that 90 percent of all the atrocities in the Yugoslav wars up to that point had been committed by Serb militants. Most of these atrocities occurred in Bosnia. In 2004, the ICTY ruled that the Srebrenica massacre constituted genocide. In May 2013, in a first-instance verdict, the ICTY convicted six Herzeg-Bosnia Officials for their participation in a joint criminal enterprise against Muslim population in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On 24 March 2016, Radovan Karadžić, former president of Republika Srpska, was found guilty of genocide in Srebrenica, war crimes and crimes against humanity and sentenced to 40 years' imprisonment. On 22 November 2017, Ratko Mladić, former Chief of Staff of the Army of the Republika Srpska, was sentenced to life in prison by ICTY for 10 charges, one of genocide, five of crimes against humanity and four of violations of the laws or customs of war.\n\n<section begin=KosoovoWar />After September 1990 when the 1974 Yugoslav Constitution had been unilaterally repealed by the Socialist Republic of Serbia, Kosovo's autonomy suffered and so the region was faced with state organized oppression: from the early 1990s, Albanian language radio and television were restricted and newspapers shut down. Kosovar Albanians were fired in large numbers from public enterprises and institutions, including banks, hospitals, the post office and schools. In June 1991 the University of Priština assembly and several faculty councils were dissolved and replaced by Serbs. Kosovar Albanian teachers were prevented from entering school premises for the new school year beginning in September 1991, forcing students to study at home.\n\nLater, Kosovar Albanians started an insurgency against Belgrade when the Kosovo Liberation Army was founded in 1996. Armed clashes between the two sides broke out in early 1998. A NATO-facilitated ceasefire was signed on 15 October, but both sides broke it two months later and fighting resumed. When the killing of 45 Kosovar Albanians in the Račak massacre was reported in January 1999, NATO decided that the conflict could only be settled by introducing a military peacekeeping force to forcibly restrain the two sides. After the Rambouillet Accords broke down on 23 March with Yugoslav rejection of an external peacekeeping force, NATO prepared to install the peacekeepers by force.<section end=KosoovoWar /> The NATO bombing of Yugoslavia followed, an intervention against Serbian forces with a mainly bombing campaign, under the command of General Wesley Clark. Hostilities ended 2½ months later with the Kumanovo Agreement. Kosovo was placed under the governmental control of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo and the military protection of Kosovo Force (KFOR). The 15-month war had left thousands of civilians killed on both sides and over a million displaced.\n\nThe Insurgency in the Preševo Valley was an armed conflict between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the ethnic-Albanian insurgents of the Liberation Army of Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac (UÇPMB). There were instances during the conflict in which the Yugoslav government requested KFOR support in suppressing UÇPMB attacks since they could only use lightly armed military forces as part of the Kumanovo Treaty that ended the Kosovo War, which created a buffer zone so the bulk of the Yugoslav armed forces could not enter.\n\nYugoslav president Vojislav Koštunica warned that fresh fighting would erupt if KFOR units did not act to prevent the attacks that were coming from the UÇPMB.\n\nThe insurgency in the Republic of Macedonia was an armed conflict in Tetovo which began when the ethnic Albanian National Liberation Army (NLA) militant group began attacking the security forces of the Republic of Macedonia at the beginning of February 2001, and ended with the Ohrid Agreement. The goal of the NLA was to give greater rights and autonomy to the country's Albanian minority, who make up 25.2% (54.7% of the population in Tetovo) of the population of Macedonia. There were also claims that the group ultimately wished to see Albanian-majority areas secede from the country, although high-ranking NLA members have denied this.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council had imposed an arms embargo in September 1991. Nevertheless, various states had been engaged in, or facilitated, arms sales to the warring factions. In 2012, Chile convicted nine people, including two retired generals, for their part in arms sales.\n\nAfter the fighting ended, millions of weapons were left with civilians who held on to them in case violence should resurface. These weapons later turned up on the black arms market of Europe.\n\nIt is widely considered that mass murders against Bosniaks in Bosnia and Herzegovina escalated into genocide. On 18 December 1992, the United Nations General Assembly issued resolution 47/121 condemning \"aggressive acts by the Serbian and Montenegrin forces to acquire more territories by force\" and called such ethnic cleansing \"a form of genocide\". In its report published on the 1 January 1993, Helsinki Watch was one of the first civil rights organisations that warned that \"the extent of the violence and its selective nature along ethnic and religious lines suggest crimes of genocidal character against Muslim and, to a lesser extent, Croatian populations in Bosnia-Hercegovina\".\n\nA trial took place before the International Court of Justice, following a 1993 suit by Bosnia and Herzegovina against Serbia and Montenegro alleging genocide. The ICJ ruling of 26 February 2007 indirectly determined the war's nature to be international, though clearing Serbia of direct responsibility for the genocide committed by the forces of Republika Srpska. The ICJ concluded, however, that Serbia failed to prevent genocide committed by Serb forces and failed to punish those responsible, and bring them to justice. A telegram sent to the White House on 8 February 1994 and penned by U.S. Ambassador to Croatia, Peter W. Galbraith, stated that genocide was occurring. The telegram cited \"constant and indiscriminate shelling and gunfire\" of Sarajevo by Karadzic's Yugoslav People Army; the harassment of minority groups in Northern Bosnia \"in an attempt to force them to leave\"; and the use of detainees \"to do dangerous work on the front lines\" as evidence that genocide was being committed. In 2005, the United States Congress passed a resolution declaring that \"the Serbian policies of aggression and ethnic cleansing meet the terms defining genocide\".\n\nDespite the evidence of many kinds of war crimes conducted simultaneously by different Serb forces in different parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in Bijeljina, Sarajevo, Prijedor, Zvornik, Banja Luka, Višegrad and Foča, the judges ruled that the criteria for genocide with the specific intent (\"dolus specialis\") to destroy Bosnian Muslims were met only in Srebrenica or Eastern Bosnia in 1995. The court concluded that other crimes, outside Srebrenica, committed during the 1992–1995 war, may amount to crimes against humanity according to the international law, but that these acts did not, in themselves, constitute genocide per se.\n\nThe crime of genocide in the Srebrenica enclave was confirmed in several guilty verdicts handed down by the ICTY, most notably in the conviction of the Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadžić.\n\nEthnic cleansing was a common phenomenon in the wars in Croatia, Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina. This entailed intimidation, forced expulsion, or killing of the unwanted ethnic group as well as the destruction of the places of worship, cemeteries and cultural and historical buildings of that ethnic group in order to alter the population composition of an area in the favour of another ethnic group which would become the majority. These examples of territorial nationalism and territorial aspirations are part of the goal of an ethno-state.\n\nAccording to numerous ICTY verdicts and indictments, Serb and Croat forces performed ethnic cleansing of their territories planned by their political leadership to create ethnically pure states (Republika Srpska and Republic of Serbian Krajina by the Serbs; and Herzeg-Bosnia by the Croats).\n\nAccording to the ICTY, Serb forces deported at least 80–100,000 Croats in Croatia in 1991–92 and at least 700,000 Albanians in Kosovo in 1999. Further hundreds of thousands of Muslims were forced out of their homes by the Serb forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina. By one estimate, the Serb forces drove at least 700,000 Bosnian Muslims from the area of Bosnia under their control.\n\nWar rape occurred as a matter of official orders as part of ethnic cleansing, to displace the targeted ethnic group. According to the Tresnjevka Women's Group, more than 35,000 women and children were held in such Serb-run \"rape camps\". Dragoljub Kunarac, Radomir Kovač, and Zoran Vuković were convicted of crimes against humanity for rape, torture, and enslavement committed during the Foča massacres.\n\nThe evidence of the magnitude of rape in Bosnia and Herzegovina prompted the ICTY to deal openly with these abuses. Reports of sexual violence during the Bosnian War (1992–1995) and Kosovo War (1998–1999) perpetrated by the Serbian regular and irregular forces have been described as \"especially alarming\". The NATO-led Kosovo Force documented rapes of Albanian, Roma and Serbian women by both Serbs and members of the Kosovo Liberation Army.\n\nOthers have estimated that during the Bosnian War between 20,000 and 50,000 women, mainly Bosniak, were raped. There are few reports of rape and sexual assault between members of the same ethnic group.\n\nWar rape in the Yugoslav Wars has often been characterized as a crime against humanity. Rape perpetrated by Serb forces served to destroy cultural and social ties of the victims and their communities. Serbian policies allegedly urged soldiers to rape Bosniak women until they became pregnant as an attempt towards ethnic cleansing. Serbian soldiers hoped to force Bosniak women to carry Serbian children through repeated rape. Often Bosniak women were held in captivity for an extended period of time and only released slightly before the birth of a child conceived of rape. The systematic rape of Bosniak women may have carried further-reaching repercussions than the initial displacement of rape victims. Stress, caused by the trauma of rape, coupled with the lack of access to reproductive health care often experienced by displaced peoples, lead to serious health risks for victimized women.\n\nDuring the Kosovo War thousands of Kosovo Albanian women and girls became victims of sexual violence. War rape was used as a weapon of war and an instrument of systematic ethnic cleansing; rape was used to terrorize the civilian population, extort money from families, and force people to flee their homes. According to a report by the Human Rights Watch group in 2000, rape in the Kosovo War can generally be subdivided into three categories: rapes in women's homes, rapes during flight, and rapes in detention. The majority of the perpetrators were Serbian paramilitaries, but also included Serbian special police or Yugoslav army soldiers. Virtually all of the sexual assaults Human Rights Watch documented were gang rapes involving at least two perpetrators. Since the end of the war, rapes of Serbian, Albanian, and Roma women by ethnic Albanians — sometimes by members of the Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) – have been documented. Rapes occurred frequently in the presence, and with the acquiescence, of military officers. Soldiers, police, and paramilitaries often raped their victims in the full view of numerous witnesses.\n\nSome estimates put the number of killed in the Yugoslav Wars at 140,000. The Humanitarian Law Center estimates that in the conflicts in former Yugoslav republics at least 130,000 people lost their lives. Slovenia's involvement in the conflicts was brief, thus avoiding higher casualties, and around 70 people were killed in its ten-day conflict. The War in Croatia left an estimated 20,000 people dead. Bosnia and Herzegovina suffered the heaviest burden of the fighting: around 100,000 people were killed in the war. In the Kosovo conflict, around 13,500 were killed. Overall, no less than 133,000 people were killed in the post-Yugoslav conflicts in the 90s. The highest death toll was in Sarajevo: with around 14,000 killed during the siege, the city lost almost as many people as the entire war in Kosovo.\n\nIn relative and absolute numbers, Bosniaks suffered the heaviest losses: 64,036 of their people were killed, which represents a death toll of over 3% of their entire ethnic group. They experienced the worst plight in the Srebrenica massacre, where the mortality rate of the Bosniak men (irrespective of their age or civilian status) reached 33% in July 1995. \nThe share of Bosniaks among all the civilian fatalities during the Bosnian War was around 83%, rising to almost 95% in Eastern Bosnia.\n\nDuring the War in Croatia, 43.4% of the killed on the Croatian side were civilians.\n\nIt is estimated that the wars in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo produced about 2.4 million refugees and an additional 2 million internally displaced persons.\n\nThe war in Bosnia and Herzegovina caused 2.2 million refugees or displaced, of which over half were Bosniaks. Up until 2001, there were still 650,000 displaced Bosniaks, while 200,000 left the country permanently.\n\nThe Kosovo War caused 862,979 Albanian refugees who were either expelled from the Serb forces or fled from the battle front. In addition, several hundreds of thousands were internally displaced, which means that, according to the OSCE, almost 90% of all Albanians were displaced from their homes in Kosovo by June 1999. After the end of the war, Albanians returned, but over 200,000 Serbs, Romani and other non-Albanians fled Kosovo. By the end of 2000, Serbia thus became the host of 700,000 Serb refugees or internally displaced from Kosovo, Croatia and Bosnia.\n\nFrom the perspective of asylum for internally displaced or refugees, Croatia took the brunt of the crisis. According to some sources, in 1992 Croatia was the host to almost 750,000 refugees or internally displaced, which represents a quota of almost 16% of its population of 4.7 million inhabitants: these figures included 420 to 450,000 Bosnian refugees, 35,000 refugees from Serbia (mostly from Vojvodina and Kosovo) while a further 265,000 persons from other parts of Croatia itself were internally displaced. This would be equivalent of Germany being a host to 10 million displaced people or France to 8 million people. Official UNHCR data indicate that Croatia was the host to 287,000 refugees and 344,000 internally displaced in 1993. This is a ratio of 64.7 refugees per 1000 inhabitants. In its 1992 report, UNHCR placed Croatia #7 on its list of 50 most refugee burdened countries: it registered 316 thousand refugees, which is a ratio of 15:1 relative to its total population. Together with those internally displaced, Croatia was the host to at least 648,000 people in need of an accommodation in 1992. In comparison, Macedonia had 10.5 refugees per 1000 inhabitants in 1999. Slovenia was the host to 45,000 refugees in 1993, which is 22.7 refugees per 1000 inhabitants. Serbia and Montenegro were the host to 479,111 refugees in 1993, which is a ratio of 45.5 refugees per 1000 inhabitants. By 1998 this grew to 502,037 refugees (or 47.7 refugees per 1000 inhabitants). By 2000 the number of refugees fell to 484,391 persons, but the number of internally displaced grew to 267,500, or a combined total of 751,891 persons who were displaced and in need of an accommodation.\n\nMaterial and economic damages brought by the conflicts were catastrophic. Bosnia and Herzegovina had a GDP of between $8–9 billion before the war. The government estimated the overall war damages at $50–$70 billion. It also registered a GDP decline of 75% after the war. Some 60% of the housing in the country has been either damaged or destroyed, which proved a problem when trying to bring all the refugees back home. Bosnia also became the most landmine contaminated country of Europe: 1820 km of its territory were contaminated with these explosives, which represent 3.6% of its land surface. Between 3 and 6 million landmines were scattered throughout Bosnia. 5,000 people died from them, of which 1,520 after the war.\n\nIn 1999, the Croatian Parliament passed a bill estimating war damages of the country at $37 billion. The government alleges that between 1991 and April 1993 an estimated total of 210,000 buildings in Croatia (including schools, hospitals and refugee camps) were either damaged or destroyed from shelling by the Republic of Serbian Krajina and the JNA forces. Cities affected by the shelling were Karlovac, Gospić, Ogulin, Zadar, Biograd and others. The Croatian government also acknowledged that 7,489 buildings belonging to Croatian Serbs were damaged or destroyed by explosives, arson or other deliberate means by the end of 1992. From January to March 1993 another 220 buildings were also damaged or destroyed. Criminal charges were brought against 126 Croats for such acts.\n\nSanctions against FR Yugoslavia createad a hyperinflation of 300 million percent of the Yugoslav dinar. By 1995, almost 1 million workers lost their jobs while the gross domestic product has fallen 55 percent since 1989. The 1999 NATO bombing of Serbia resulted in additional damages. One of the most severe was the bombing of the Pančevo petrochemical factory, which caused the release of 80,000 tonnes of burning fuel into the environment. Approximately 31,000 rounds of depleted Uranium ammuniton was used during this bombing.\n\nThe International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) was a body of the U.N. established to prosecute serious crimes committed during the Yugoslav Wars, and to try their perpetrators. The tribunal was an ad hoc court located in The Hague, Netherlands. One of the most prominent trials involved ex-Serbian President Slobodan Milošević, who was in 2002 indicted on 66 counts of crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide allegedly committed in wars in Kosovo, Bosnia and Croatia. His trial remained incomplete since he died in 2006, before a verdict was reached. Nonetheless, ICTY's trial \"helped to delegitimize Milosevic's leadership\", as one scholar put it.\n\nSeveral convictions were handed over by the ICTY and its successor, the Mechanism for International Criminal Tribunals (MICT). One notable verdict was against ex-Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan Karadžić, who was convicted for genocide in Bosnia. On 22 November 2017, general Ratko Mladić was sentenced to a life in prison. Other important convictions included those of ultranationalist Vojislav Šešelj, paramilitary leader Milan Lukić, Bosnian Serb politician Momčilo Krajišnik, Bosnian Serb general Stanislav Galić, who was convicted for terror during the siege of Sarajevo, the former Assistant Minister of the Serbian Ministry of Internal Affairs and Chief of its Public Security Department, Vlastimir Đorđević, who was convicted for crimes in Kosovo, ex-JNA commander Mile Mrkšić and Croatian Serb leader Milan Martić.\n\nSeveral Croats, Bosniaks and Albanians were convicted for crimes, as well, including ex-Herzegovina Croat leader Jadranko Prlić and commander Slobodan Praljak, Bosnian Croat military commander Mladen Naletilić, ex-Bosnian Army commander Enver Hadžihasanović and ex-Kosovo commander Haradin Bala.\n\n1990\n\n1991\n\n1992\n\n1993\n\n1994\n\n1995\n\n\n1996\n\n1998\n1999\n\n2000\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24672466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24672466", "title": "Yuri Kilin", "text": "Yuri Kilin\n\nYuri Mihailovich Kilin (, born 1961) is a Russian historian and a professor of History Studies at the Petrozavodsk State University in Petrozavodsk. He has written extensively on Russo-Finnish and Karelian historical conflicts. Kilin graduated with honours in 1983. He received his Candidate of Sciences degree in Leningrad 1991, and Doctor of Sciences degree in Moscow 2000. Kilin has written in over 50 publications, including over 25 published aboard. His name has also transliterated as Juri Kilin.\n\n\n\n"}
