{"id": "5892489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5892489", "title": "1928 International Columbia Graphophone Competition", "text": "1928 International Columbia Graphophone Competition\n\nThe 1928 International Columbia Graphophone Competition was a competition part-sponsored by the Columbia Record Company in honour of the centenary of the death of Franz Schubert. Its original aim was to encourage composers to produce completions of Schubert's 'Unfinished' Symphony but the rules were modified several times to allow the submission of original symphonic works. Preliminary rounds were judged on a country or area basis, and the winning works at this level were then forwarded to the final judging for the world prize, which took place in Vienna. Notable composers who gained prizes in the country categories included Havergal Brian, Czesław Marek and Franz Schmidt, but the overall prize, after a wrangle among the judges, was awarded to the Swedish composer Kurt Atterberg for his Sixth Symphony.\n\nOrganized jointly by the Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde in Vienna and the Columbia Graphophone Company of Britain and America, the competition was originally announced on 26 June 1927 as a contest for composers from around the world to complete Schubert's Symphony in B minor, D. 759 (the \"Unfinished\"). Between July 1927 and February 1928 the rules of entry were modified several times to allow the submission of original works rather than a completion of Schubert, and also to permit the use, if prospective completers wished, of Schubert's own sketches for the third movement of the \"Unfinished\". Those composers who wished to submit a completion of Schubert's work were to use an orchestra no larger than that already employed in the existing movements of the \"Unfinished\". As far as the submission of individual works was concerned, in October 1927 the organizers stipulated that these should be 'in two movements, composed in the Romantic spirit that animates Schubert's music'.\nOnly a few weeks later this formulation was changed to 'symphonic works in one or more movements, presented as an apotheosis of the lyrical genius of Schubert'; it was also suggested, though not stipulated, that there could be non-symphonic works, as long as these were sets of variations on Schubert themes, but all works had to be for orchestra. Later still, a further revision of the rules stated that 'the compositions, apart from faultless formal structure, must be marked by the predominance of a vigorous melodic content, and the number of instruments employed must not substantially exceed the measure established by the classical orchestras of Schubert's time'.\n\nThe contest was to be judged in two stages. \"The World\" (effectively Europe, the Americas, and the British Commonwealth) was divided into ten 'zones', each of which could award prizes for three works, the first prize being £150 sterling or $750, the second prize £50 or $250 and the third prize no money, but an 'honourable mention' (\"hochste Anerkennung\"). These 30 scores were then to be entered for the sole international first prize of £2,000 or $10,000, to be adjudicated in Vienna. The 'Zone' jurors, who judged the first stage, included such well-known personalities as Maurice Ravel, Thomas Beecham, Ottorino Respighi, and Karol Szymanowski.\n\nAs far as is known, despite the prestige of the competition, very few of the youngest generation of composers bothered to enter, especially those of a modernist persuasion. The terms of entry, and indeed the identity of many of the jurors, bespoke a highly conservative and traditionalist view of musical history. Nevertheless, several substantial figures of more senior generations participated in the competition, and not all their works were destined to be forgotten. At least 513 composers, and probably many more, submitted scores by the closing date. If the 30 or so winning entries in the first stage accurately reflect the proportion of original works to completions of Schubert, it would seem that about 20 per cent, i.e., something over 100 different \"finishings\" of the \"Unfinished\", were submitted. Among the remaining 80 per cent of entries - the original works - there was a tremendous diversity of approach and character, and many submitted scores that had only the most tenuous connexion with the ideals outlined in the conditions of entry.\n\nA full list of winners by zone is given by Paul Rapoport (see Sources, below). In the 'English' zone, for example, the first prize of £150 was divided between the composer-pianist Frank Merrick (who submitted a completion of the Schubert symphony) and John St. Anthony Johnson, for a symphonic movement called \"Pax Vobiscum\". The second prize went to the composer Havergal Brian for the orchestral movements from his \"Gothic Symphony\". (This symphony, which had evolved between 1919 and 1927, is famous for the gigantic orchestra and chorus employed in the choral finale that forms Part Two. It had clearly not been written as an entry for the competition, but as submitted by the composer, only the somewhat smaller manuscript for Part One, consisting of three more conventional orchestral movements, was deemed eligible to be adjudged as a stand-alone work.) In the Austrian section, the first prize was awarded to Franz Schmidt for his Third Symphony, the second to Hans Gál for his First Symphony and the third prize to a symphony by Moni Friedsohn. In the Scandinavian section, the first prize went to Kurt Atterberg of Sweden for his Sixth Symphony, the second to the Norwegian, Ludvig Irgens-Jensen, for his orchestral Passacaglia, and the third prize to a symphony by the Dane Jens Laursen Emborg.\n\nFrom 19–23 June 1928 the 30 winning scores from the ten national zones were evaluated in Vienna by the International jury. This body consisted of one delegate from each of the zones plus an eleventh juror appointed in Vienna. The chairman was Alexander Glazunov; he was assisted by such luminaries as Franco Alfano, Alfred Bruneau, Walter Damrosch, Carl Nielsen, Franz Schalk, Max von Schillings, and Donald Tovey. The Polish delegate was Emil Młynarski; the eleventh, Viennese, delegate was Guido Adler. Since the deliberations of the jury were never published, they have been the subject of much rumour. It was agreed that all the completions of Schubert's \"Unfinished\" should be ruled out and the judging devoted only to the original works. The sole international prize was awarded to the Sixth Symphony of Kurt Atterberg. This was also the only work to receive a recording, and it was eventually reviewed with a fair amount of derision by international critics as a particularly weak and derivative specimen of contemporary music. It is clear that Atterberg's symphony was in direct competition with two other scores, namely Franz Schmidt's Third Symphony and Czesław Marek's \"Sinfonia\", because both of these pieces - though they received no prize, no money and no recording - merited an 'honourable mention' in the final judgment. Other pieces may however have been involved in the final balance. Sources within the Columbia Graphophone company released unattributable stories to suggest that Havergal Brian's \"Gothic\" Symphony, which Donald Tovey as British delegate certainly considered a masterpiece, was also evaluated, as well as a set of symphonic variations entitled \"Karma\" by the American Charles Haubiel. This account would square with a report in \"The New York Times\" (29 November 1928) which suggested that the jury were divided on four scores which were considered outstanding but eventually rejected as ‘in a modernistic vein inappropriate to the occasion’, and that Atterberg's Symphony was awarded the prize as the best of the others, with (it seems) five jurors dissenting and the deadlock broken by the casting vote of Glazunov. Yet Atterberg's Symphony No. 6 - though hardly the equal of Marek's, or indeed Schmidt's or Brian's works as a feat of symphonic thinking - is by no means the mere pastiche that it was represented as in contemporary reviews; and one might have expected that its rather prominent vein of polytonality would have rendered it equally ‘inappropriate to the occasion’.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33268206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33268206", "title": "2011 South Korea blackout", "text": "2011 South Korea blackout\n\nThe 2011 South Korea Blackout was a power outage across South Korea on September 15, 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "43712356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43712356", "title": "2014 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship Final", "text": "2014 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship Final\n\nThe 2014 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship Final is the eighty-third All-Ireland Final and the deciding match of the 2014 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship, an inter-county camogie tournament for the top teams in Ireland.\n\nTrailing the Cats by five points at half time, Cork produced a stunning comeback in the second half to win their 25th title by six points.\n"}
{"id": "37338553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37338553", "title": "Antigo Opera House", "text": "Antigo Opera House\n\nThe Antigo Opera House is a historic opera house and concert hall in Antigo, Wisconsin, United States. The brick building was built in 1904 by architect J.H. Jeffers in the Classical Revival style. The opera house could seat 1100 people. In addition to its use for entertainment, the building served as an armory during World War I and is now an apartment building. The opera house was added to the National Register of Historic Places on January 12, 1984.\n"}
{"id": "235700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=235700", "title": "Arthur Furguson", "text": "Arthur Furguson\n\nArthur Furguson (1883–1938) was (or may have been) a Scottish con artist who allegedly became known for \"selling\" English national monuments and other government property to visiting American tourists during the 1920s.\n\nIt is claimed that in the 1920s, Furguson sold monuments such as Nelson's Column in Trafalgar Square (for the sum of £6,000), Big Ben (£1,000 for a down payment), and Buckingham Palace (£2,000 for a down payment) to American tourists. Furguson immigrated to the US in 1925. He sold the White House to a rancher on the installment plan for yearly payments of $100,000, and tried to sell the Statue of Liberty to a visiting Australian, who went to the police. Furguson was imprisoned and was released in 1930. He continued to defraud people in Los Angeles until his death in 1938.\n\nHowever, according to author Dane Love, who profiled Furguson in his book \"The Man Who Sold Nelson's Column\", the existence of Furguson himself may be a hoax. Love attempted to trace contemporary records which would confirm the story, but found \"[t]here was nothing about his arrest, his trial or his time in jail in New York. There's not even any trace of his grave in Los Angeles, where he supposedly died in 1938.\" The earliest known reference to Furguson dates from as recently as the 1960s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41104657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41104657", "title": "Billboard Japan Music Awards", "text": "Billboard Japan Music Awards\n\n\"Billboard Japan\" Music Awards are an annual set of music awards, founded by \"Billboard Japan\", the Japanese online edition of the music magazine \"Billboard\".\n\nThe awards honor artists, both Japanese and foreign, who had achieved best results in \"Billboard Japan\" charts during the year. Different awards are based on different formulas, combining both chart data and votes from the public. The main award, Artist of the Year, is determined solely by popular vote.\n\nThe awards are given at an annual awards show featuring performances by celebrated artists. The first awards ceremony was held in 2010.\n\n\n\n\nThe awards ceremony has taken place in December–February.\nThe 2009 and 2010 awards were broadcast on Fuji TV Next, since 2011 on Osaka TV and Tokyo TV.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47440565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47440565", "title": "Brown envelope journalism", "text": "Brown envelope journalism\n\nBrown envelope journalism (BEJ) is a practice whereby monetary inducement is given to journalists to make them write a positive story or kill a negative story. The name is derived from cash inducements hidden in brown envelopes and given to journalists during press briefings. While the true extent of BEJ practices worldwide is unknown, research literature has been concentrated in the South East and Asia and Eastern Europe regions, as well as Latin American and African regions in recent years. In 2010, the African Communication Research journal has received around 40 submissions of research articles centered around 10 Subsaharan African countries.\n\nThe term \"brown envelope\" was first coined in 1994 the after the \"cash-for-questions-affair\" incident, a political scandal in the United Kingdom (UK). The Guardian alleged that the owner of Harrods department store, Mohammed Al Fayed, had paid a Member of Parliament in the House of Commons to ask a question using a brown colored envelope for the transaction.\n\nBEJ is regarded as a common practice in Nigeria. Prior to the 1990s, most news publications were government owned. The Babangida regime (1985-1993) saw a rise of media activism, opposing militarised democratization and struggle for independence. The early standing of journalism as noble resulted in a lack of law or regulations. One of the effects is that the Nigerian media has become a thriving arena for sponsored stories. Journalists in Nigeria perceive BEJ practice to be unethical, and media regulatory bodies such as The Nigerian Union of Journalist (NUJ) apply a code of ethics to discourage the practice.\n\n\nA cause of brown envelope journalism may be the poor remuneration of journalists. Many journalists' salaries are not paid on time and bosses sometimes justify this non payment by telling their employees to use the media platform to earn money. There are instances whereby magazines owe employees six months salary, even when paid, many journalists still earn less than $3 per day and graduate journalist earn as little as $200 monthly. It may be difficult for journalist who are hungry or have families to feed to live on the salaries alone and neglect taking brown envelopes. In 2015, the Nigeria Union of Journalists demonstrated against ThisDay newspapers after salary payments were delayed for nine months. A 2013 survey study of journalists' perception on the causes of Brown Envelope Syndrome (BES) practices in Nigeria indicate that 6% of journalists interview associate poor remuneration as a cause of (BES), while 2% indicated delay in salary payments.\n\nAnother cause may be the influence of advertisers on the financial performance of media houses. Due to the revenues that accrue to media firms through advertisements, the media houses are well aware of the interest of advertisers and consider those interests in the packaging of sensitive news. Dele Olojede's Next Newspapers stopped printing as a result of drop in revenues from advertisers. Next's newspaper's crusading stance on political issues and probe into the oil sector hurt its ad sales and paid salutatory praises on politicians.\nIn some broadcast television stations sponsored news programs can reach close to 50% of news stories.\n\nThe effect of this form of journalism is that there is a shift in journalism from being a fourth estate to a publicity seeking outlet available to the highest bidder; integrity, objectivity and balance is weakened as a result and news is commercialized. It also creates an avenue for publicity seeking journalists to write commentaries that is intended to address personalities and not sensitive issues. Hence the Nigerian media is weakened and inefficient and cannot function independently of politicians and businessmen.\n\n"}
{"id": "31123961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31123961", "title": "Capital market imperfections", "text": "Capital market imperfections\n\nAll the limitations that reduce the range of financial contracts that agents can sign and/or that prevent them to be honored are called imperfections. These restrictions are more common in capital markets. There are three basic reasons for that: First, lenders do not have full information about the borrower, whether they have the capacity to pay back their debt and/or whether they are willing to pay (asymmetric information). Secondly, lender needs to trust the borrower to commit and to pay back his/her debt or there needs to be a third party to enforce the contract as it is more difficult to enforce contracts ex post (limited commitment). Finally, since the exchange does not happen at the same time, there is always room for renegotiation.\n\nIn perfect capital market case, assuming complete markets, perfect rationality of agents and under full information, the equilibrium occurs where the interest rates clear the market, with the supply of funds equal to the demand. This type of equilibrium is called Arrow-Debreu equilibrium, which is defined as there is a set of prices (in this case interest rates) under which demand and supply of the market are equal to each other. Moreover, we can analyze the firm's investment decision and its owner's consumption/saving decision separately (Fisher separation theorem). In addition to that, even in case of bankruptcy risk, the resulting optimum choice of firm will be efficient as the interest rate increases to capture the bankruptcy risk. Therefore, the possibility of default of the borrower is not a main driving force that leads to imperfect capital markets.\n\nThe main feature of financial markets that leads to imperfection is information asymmetry between borrowers and lenders. We see two main types of information asymmetries in capital markets:\n\nAnother important characteristic that yields imperfection is that exchange does not happen simultaneously in capital markets. The borrower gets his/her funds, but the lender must rely on the promises of the borrower. One of the conditions for imperfect capital markets is default risk. The borrower may declare bankruptcy, and thus, may not pay the debt back. Hence, the borrower's promises, as well as the structure of the promises, are very important for the transaction to be realized. One of the options in dealing with the limited commitment problem is providing collateral. The contract is formed such that in case of default, the lender has all/some rights to seize the collateral. This is called a secured loan in finance. However, it does not fully solve the problem because there are costs associated with seizing the pledged asset. One source of these costs is the money and time spent enforcing the contract.\n\nAnother reason for capital market imperfections associated with limited commitment is the ability of the borrower to renegotiate the terms of the contract ex post. Even though the contract is signed as a secured loan, because of the enforcement costs, the lender never gets the full payment in case of default. Ex post, the borrower always has the option to offer more than the lender would get in case of default, but less than the full payment. That is why the incentive compatibility is needed to ensure binding contracts, in imperfect capital markets.\n\nThe other feature of the capital market leading to imperfections is that credit is not a homogeneous good. It is a different good in different states of world in different times and even given different people. In an idealized \"perfect\" market, economists expect the market to \"achieve every desired exchange for homogeneous goods when there is only one price\". Based on that, to have a perfect capital market, every agent may exchange funds at the existing single interest rate for each type of fund. However, in reality we do not have that many different types of credit/funds for each different states of world to have complete market.\n\nWith perfect information as the interest rate increases, expected return to the lender increases as the lender charges the borrower more for the lending service. However, with imperfect information there is also an indirect opposite effect. As the interest rate rises, the possibility of selecting riskier borrowers increases as the cost increases less for them as they may not pay it back. Hence, as the interest rate goes up, the return to the lender decreases only considering the adverse selection effect. Considering these two opposite effects, the lender may determine the interest rate to maximize the rate of return so it does not necessarily clear the market. In that situation, some individuals can not obtain any credit at the existing market interest rate although they are willingly to pay the market value. Hence, we see credit rationing as a result of imperfection in capital markets.\n\nCredit rationing does not just caused from asymmetric information but also from limited enforcement in case of default. There are also costs used for law enforcement in order to get back the funds and in most of the case there is also possibility of not taking back at all if it was an unsecured loan. The problem of credit rationing arises most if the creditor does not have anything to provide as collateral. Even if he/she is a trustworthy person and would use the funds for good investment project and able to pay back his/her debt, the lender may not lend him/her so it leads to inefficient allocation of resources.\n\nIn macroeconomic perspective one of the consequences of the imperfect capital markets is insufficient investment. Since most of the time firms finance their investment from credit markets, lack of supply of funds leads to insufficient amount of investment causing inefficient allocation of funds in the economy. Even though it was true that every agent could borrow at the amount they were willing to, we could not have reached the efficient allocation because of the high market interest rate causing from the cost of screening and monitoring of the banks.\n\nBased on the fact that in real world the capital markets are far from being perfect, we can clearly say that market clearing is a very specific result which may not hold in general.\n\nEnforcement of the contract is particularly difficult in an international set up. It is hard for a creditor to impose sanctions to a country that defaults. Hence, it is a much deeper problem considering the consequences of imperfections in international capital markets. It may highly reduce the country's ability to extract financial resources on international basis. the most fundamental reason is the sovereign risk that causes from the lack of a supranational legal authority, capable of enforcing contracts across borders. The main results of imperfect international capital markets are similar to domestic ones: risk and insufficient level of investment. Since the inefficiency of the economy in terms of investment is also related to the economic growth of the country, the consequences on investment and economic growth are more severe and affects the economies of the countries (especially developing countries) in macro level.\n"}
{"id": "26248844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26248844", "title": "Cheech &amp; Chong's Animated Movie", "text": "Cheech &amp; Chong's Animated Movie\n\nCheech & Chong's Animated Movie! is an American stoner comedy-animated film by Branden Chambers and Eric D. Chambers. It stars comedy duo Cheech and Chong in their first feature film since 1984's \"The Corsican Brothers\", and the first to feature them as animated characters. The film features several of their original comedy bits such as \"Sister Mary Elephant\", \"Sgt. Stedanko\", \"Ralph and Herbie\", \"Let's Make a Dope Deal\", \"Earache My Eye\", and the classic \"Dave\". It was released on March 18, 2013 by 20th Century Fox and was released on DVD/Blu-ray on April 23, 2013.\n\nThe trailer claims it to be an adventure, but scenes shown throughout are mostly animated interpretations of their segments from their comedy albums. It also features a wraparound story of a genital crab named Buster the Body Crab trying to get high from Chong's weed scented head.\n\nThe movie opens with an interview with a body crab named Buster living on a bikini-clad woman. The body crab sees Man (Tommy Chong) passing by and jumps on his beard. Man quickly pulls him out and throws him away. Pedro De Pacas (Cheech Marin) is shown driving just up the street from the hitchhiking Man. Pedro sees him and stops the car to give Man a ride. Man gets in and they both peel off, sending the body crab flying. The body crab smells the strong marijuana scent left behind from their car and gives chase. Pedro and Man smoke a joint together and drive through traffic as Pedro admires the street lights. A police car suddenly appears from behind and tails them. Man quickly decides to eat all the drugs in the car to avoid being caught with them. After Man does that the police car passes them without pulling them over. The body crab then gets hit by a train while it is still looking for them.\n\nPedro and Man pull into a theater. They go in and try to find a parking spot. They pull into a spot near theatre speakers and hear knocking from inside their trunk. They then have to park somewhere else so they won't be spotted letting whoever is in the trunk out. Unfortunately, the key breaks off in the lock so Man has to search for a crow bar but he's unsuccessful. Pedro gets out of the car and urinates on the trunk and a camera cut reveals there are two people in the trunk and are afraid of being peed on. The credits start to roll on the movie theater movie and the movie theater speaker announces the movie has ended. Just then Man returns with a load of snacks. Pedro and Man leave the theater.\n\nThe next day, a skit with two dogs then takes place. The body crab appears in one of the dogs excrement and is stepped on by Pedro, who winds up taking the body crab home on the bottom of his shoe. He wipes his shoes on the doormat and goes inside and watches television with Man. An interrogation scene from a film plays on the TV. They change the channel and a gameshow involving drugs plays. The gameshow eventually leads into a zit treatment product commercial. Next, a spoof of American Bandstand plays on the television. They then turn off the TV and Pedro pulls out a giant rolled joint that is filled with a sock. They try to smoke it but it just makes them cough. The body crab appears at the window but is soon snatched by a bird and released further away from the house. The body crab lands on the window of a doctor who is examining patients.\n\nA skit involving a Jewish man and his child talking to their doctor starts. The doctor tries to remove a bullet from the child's nose and the bullet explodes, sending the body crab flying. The camera then zooms into a product called Acapulco Gold (which are marijuana joints). Filming of a commercial for this product takes place.\n\nThe film cuts back to Pedro in his home and someone knocks at his door claiming to be the police. Pedro then rushes to get rid of all his drugs. After he gets rid of the drugs he answers the door only to be greeted by Man who says \"April Fools\".\n\nThe film then shows a paper article about Afghanistan and a skit taking place there plays out. The body crab then appears on someones shoulder in Afghanistan but is shot. The camera then zooms into a courtroom skit. Soon Man is shown to be on trial. Man wanders around the courtroom and then returns to his table to gather up drugs which were to be used as evidence against him. Man begins to ramble much to the chagrin of his lawyer. Man approaches the judge's desk, climbs on it then passes out. The scene dissolves into Man passed out on the floor in his house. It appears that it was actually a dream. Pedro knocks on the door, waking him up. The \"Dave's not here\" skit then begins to play out. Pedro is trying to get in but Man refuses to open the door. Pedro gives up and begins to cry. The body crab then appears underneath a deck board but is roasted as he turns into a vampire and is exposed to natural sunlight. Man, still inside, starts to watch a show called \"Wake up America\". The Wake Up America skit involves a reporter whom is a parody of Geraldo Rivera investigating the recording industry. After the reporter is ejected from the studio Pedro is seen walking by. The body crab catches his scent and tries to dive on him from a window sill but lands on an electric wire instead.\n\nMan is shown on the phone at a diner making a drug deal. After that call ends, Pedro makes a few song requests on the phone with a local radio station. Man leaves and a cop approaches Pedro as he is trying to listen to the radio. He finds Man's drugs but since Pedro is the only one around at that time he is arrested instead. He takes Pedro outside and the camera zooms across the street to Sister Mary Elephant's school. Another skit involving a nun teaching a class takes place. Shortly after, Sargent Stadanko then joins Sister Mary Elephant's class to speak out against drug use. Just as Sargent Stadanko is about to leave Pedro opens the door to the class. Pedro and Man then play Earache My Eye. The body crab appears during the song and starts to head-bang. It runs after them but falls into a jar of chemicals. Pedro and Man are then seen lifted into a rocket and they launch into outer space. The body crab is seen to have made it on the rocket and jumps in Man's beard. The rocket crashes into the moon and the moon proceeds to smoke it as its appearance is similar to a joint.\n\nDuring the credits a scene shows the body crab singing and having a party on Mans beard. Man again plucks it and throws it away.\n\n\nEighteen previously existing sketches from Cheech & Chong albums were adapted for the film. They include the following:\n\nThe soundtrack for the film was released on April 9, 2013.\n\nThe movie debuted in theaters in March 18, 2013 by 20th Century Fox. The DVD and Blu-ray release by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment followed shortly after on April 23, 2013.\n"}
{"id": "46730008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46730008", "title": "Comix Fair", "text": "Comix Fair\n\nComix Fair was a comic convention that was held annually between 1983 and 1996 in Houston, Texas. It was produced by the Houston-based company Utopia Entertainment.\n\nComix Fairs took place over two days in the summer, from Saturday to Sunday. The convention featured a large range of pop culture elements, primarily comic books and toys, but also television serials, science fiction/fantasy, film/television, animation, and horror. Along with panels, seminars, and workshops with comic book professionals, the convention featured a large floorspace for exhibitors, including comic book dealers and collectibles merchants. The show included an autograph area, as well as an Artists' Alley where comics artists signed autographs and drew sketches. \"Tank McNamara\" creators Jeff Millar and Bill Hinds, both based in the Houston area, were frequent guests of the show.\n\nComix Fair was the successor to Houstoncon, a large multi-genre convention which took place annually in Houston from 1967–1982. The final Houstoncon, billed as \"Ultimate Fantasy,\" was a fiasco; Comix Fair was much smaller in scale and, unlike Houstoncon, returned its focus primarily to comic books.\n\nThe first Comix Fair was held in the summer of 1983. An impressive guest lineup included media personalities Terrence Dicks and Bill Mumy, and comics creators Jim Shooter, Steve Englehart, Chris Claremont, Paul Smith, Kerry Gammill, Ernie Chan, Josef Rubinstein, Sam De La Rosa, Dick Giordano, Sal Amendola, Marv Wolfman, Len Wein, Mike W. Barr, P. Craig Russell, Rick Obadiah, Mike Grell, Mark Wheatley & Marc Hempel, Dave & Deni Sim, Cat Yronwode, Dean Mullaney, Max Allan Collins, Terry Beatty, John Carbonaro, Jaxon, Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds, and Jerry Bittle. The convention program featured the T.H.U.N.D.E.R. Agents characters NoMan and Dynamo (the most recent appearance of the T.H.U.N.D.E.R. Agents had been published by Texas Comics).\n\nDave Stevens was a guest of the 1984 edition of the Comix Fair.\n\nThe fourth annual Comix Fair was held August 22–23, 1986, at the Brookhollow Marriott. Official guests included Gary Groth, Gil Kane, Joe Pumilia, Jeff Millar, Bill Hinds, and Doug Potter.\n\nComix Fair VI was held June 24–26, 1988, at the Ramada Hotel Southwest. Featured guests were Sergio Aragonés, Kim DeMulder, Mike Leeke, and William Messner-Loebs.\n\nThe seventh annual Comix Fair took place June 16–17, 1989, at the Ramada Hotel Southwest. Guests included John Romita, Jr., Bob Layton, Tim Vigil, and Doug Hazlewood.\n\nComix Fair VIII was held August 4–5, 1990, at the Holiday Inn—Medical Center; guests were Bill Hinds, Jeff Millar, and Doug Hazlewood.\n\nThe 1991 Comix Fair expanded to three days, taking place June 21–23 at the Holiday Inn—Medical Center. Guests included Russ Heath, Nestor Redondo, Jeff Millar, Bill Hinds, and Rick Klaw.\n\nThe fourteenth and final show, officially known as the \"Houston Comix Fair & Toy Show,\" was held June 2, 1996, at the Medallion Hotel. Guests included Mart Nodell and Shannon Wheeler.\n\nBy this time, Comix Fair promoter Utopia Entertainment was putting on one-day small-scale shows in the Houston area on a bimonthly basis. (One of these recurring smaller events was dubbed \"LepreCon.\") Guests of some of these shows included Doug Hazlewood, Kenneth Smith, Gil Kane, Jimmy Palmiotti, Amanda Conner, Mike Grell, Mike Wieringo, Jeff Parker, Brian Stelfreeze, Susie Owens, Bjo Trimble, Mark Allen Shepherd, Len Wein, Marv Wolfman, Jerry Bingham, Mark Schultz, William Stout, Sean Stewart, Marilyn Burns, and Edwin Neal.\n\nA 15th Comix Fair was planned for June 22, 1997, at the Holiday Inn Select, but the show never materialized.\n\nAfter many years of Comix Fair being the only comic convention in Houston, on August 7–8, 1993, the University of Houston hosted the \"Houston Comic Book Festival,\" with official guests Chris Claremont, Matt Wagner, Kelley Jones, Joe St. Pierre, Evan Dorkin, and Mike Leeke.\n\nAfter Comix Fair's demise in 1996, Houston was devoid of comic conventions until the mid-2000s, when Comicpalooza entered the scene. Since then, the number of Houston-area conventions has exploded, with shows like the Houston Comic Con, Amazing Houston Comic Con, and Space City Comic Con all taking place in the city.\n"}
{"id": "29571628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29571628", "title": "Costa Rica–Nicaragua San Juan River border dispute", "text": "Costa Rica–Nicaragua San Juan River border dispute\n\nThe Nicaragua–Costa Rica San Juan River border dispute is a series of periodical conflicts between the two Central American nations over the correct delimitation of their common border at its east-end, and the interpretation of the navigation rights on the San Juan River established in the Cañas-Jerez Treaty of 1858.\n\nThe most recent disputes include an interpretation about the scope and limits of Costa Rica's rights for free navigation and Nicaragua's sovereign control over the San Juan River, which was resolved by the International Court of Justice in 2009; and the ongoing dispute that began in October 2010 regarding the dredging of San Juan River, in the area of Isla Calero.\n\nAccording to the Cañas-Jerez Treaty of 1858, reaffirmed in arbitration by President Grover Cleveland of the United States in 1888 and interpreted by the Central American Court of Justice in 1916 (case \"Costa Rica v. Nicaragua\"), Nicaragua is sovereign over the Río San Juan, and Costa Rica has the right to navigate over part of the river with articles for trade which in case of need, as determined by Nicaragua can be accompanied by revenue cutters. The treaty also states that no taxes would be imposed on Costa Rican trade in goods except those accepted by mutual agreement.\n\nHistorically, the possibility that the Río San Juan might become the route for a Nicaragua Canal has exacerbated the dispute. The construction of the Panama Canal as well as Nicaragua's dry ecocanal project have largely deflated this motive for friction.\n\nA dispute emerged in 1998 when Nicaragua forbade the transit of Costa Rican policemen in the river, which Nicaragua claims to be a breach of sovereignty, and unilaterally imposed a tax for any Costa Rican tourists who enter the San Juan river, as persons are not objects of trade but subjects of trade and are, therefore, not covered by the treaty. This and other subjects were the subjects of a case in the International Court of Justice.\n\nOn July 13, 2009, the International Court of Justice published the following ruling:\n\n\nOn October 8, 2010, the Nicaraguan government initiated operations to dredge of the San Juan River and the works are in led by commander Edén Pastora. On October 20, the Costa Rican government complained to Nicaraguan authorities regarding an alleged violation of its sovereignty as Nicaraguan troops had entered Costa Rican territory, and the dredging of the river caused environmental damage in the wetlands at Isla Calero, which is part of the island nature reserve, in an area that is owned by the Costa Rican Ministry of the Environment. Nicaragua rejected all claims and replied that, in fact, Costa Ricans had been invading their territory and the Vice President of Nicaragua commented that \"We cannot invade our own territory\". The Costa Rican government responded by sending 70 police reinforcements to the border area on October 22. Nicaragua stationed around 50 soldiers in Isla Calero\n\nAccording to a Costa Rican newspaper, Edén Pastora justified his actions based the border as shown by Google Maps and to be performing anti-drug dealing operations. However, Pastora denied making any claims about relying on Google Maps to determine the border, and said to the Nicaraguan press that his understanding of the border is based on the original text of the 1858 Cañas-Jerez Treaty. A senior manager for public policies for Google Latin America made a public statement saying that while “Google maps are of very high quality and Google works constantly to improve and update existing information, by no means should they be used as a reference to decide military actions between two countries.” He added that \"In this instance Google has determined that there was an inaccuracy in the shaping of the border between Costa Rica and Nicaragua and is working to update the information as quickly as possible.” The border has since been updated and corrected by Google on Google Earth and in Google Maps.\n\nBoth countries took different approaches on how to solve the issue, Nicaragua argued it was a border dispute that should be resolved by International Court of Justice, while Costa Rica claimed it was a military incursion and that the Organization of American States (OAS) should solve the issue,\n\nOAS General Secretary José Miguel Insulza met with both governments and inspected the conflict area. He then called for both countries to remove all troops and security personnel from the disputed territory as a first step towards opening a dialogue in order to resolve the situation peacefully and demarcate the boundary to prevent further conflicts. Costa Rica agreed to these terms but Nicaragua refused to remove its troops. On a meeting on November 12, by a vote of 22 to 2, the OAS ambassadors approved a resolution requesting Costa Rica and Nicaragua to pull out their troops from a conflict zone along their common border and to hold talks to settle their dispute. Nicaragua's President Daniel Ortega discarded the possibility of withdrawing the troops and disregarded OAS resolution because his government considers that this organization does not have jurisdiction to resolve border disputes. In the same press conference, President Ortega announced his intentions to file a claim under the International Court of Justice for permission to navigate the Costa Rican Colorado River.\n\nOn the political side, some commentators criticized Daniel Ortega for allegedly taking advantage on this matter to promote his re-election. Costa Rica's President Laura Chinchilla was criticized by former President Óscar Arias for her naïve handling of the situation.\n\nOn November 18, 2010, Costa Rica filed proceedings against Nicaragua in the International Court of Justice. The complaint alleges an incursion into, occupation of and use by Nicaragua's Army of Costa Rican territory, breaches of Nicaragua's treaty obligations toward Costa Rica, and “ongoing and planned dredging and the construction of the canal (that) will seriously affect the flow of water to the Colorado River of Costa Rica, and will cause further damage to Costa Rican territory, including the wetlands and national wildlife protected areas located in the region”. Costa Rica also filed a request for provisional measures, including the withdrawal of all Nicaraguan troops from Isla Calero, the cessation of the construction of a canal across Costa Rican territory, the immediate cessation of the dumping of sediment in Costa Rican territory and immediate cessation of the felling of trees, removal of vegetation and soil from Costa Rican territory, including its wetlands and forests. On the same day, OAS approved a Costa Rican request, by a vote of 22 to 1 (and 7 abstentions), to convene a Consultative Meeting of OAS Ministers of Foreign Affairs to analyze the situation between Costa Rica and Nicaragua in the border zone of the San Juan River. The meeting took place on December 7, 2010.\n\nIn March 2011, The International Court of Justice provisionally ruled that Costa Rica and Nicaragua both must refrain from sending or maintaining civilians, security forces or police in this disputed border area, but that Costa Rica was allowed to send civilian teams concerned with environmental matters. Dredging by Nicaragua within the San Juan River itself was allowed to continue since Nicaragua has sovereignty over the river proper.\n\nNowadays the problem is for a road Costa Rica made in the border with Nicaragua. Conflict in which Nicaragua says the wetlands and national parks from Costa Rica are being damaged. Nevertheless, Costa Rica argues it was necessary for protecting from the \"Sandinistas\" and for providing electricity and other needs to people who live in a remote location, to which before the road was made, the only way in was sailing in the San Juan River.\n\nOn December 16, 2015, The International Court of Justice published its ruling:. The court found that:\n\nIn June 2016, Costa Rica made an estimation of the damage to be paid of . It accepted to make a second evaluation of the damages if Nicaragua requested it.\n\nJust before the end of the deadline, on December the 6th 2016, the president of Nicaragua Daniel Ortega publicly stated that his country was willing to pay the fine. This lead Costa Rica to extend the deadline for the amount agreement.\nOn 16 January 2017, still no agreement on the amount was reached. The Costa Rica government filled a new case to the International Court of Justice concerning new military presence on its territory and asked the court to fix a final amount and a deadline concerning the 2015 resolution's compensation.\n\n"}
{"id": "604238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=604238", "title": "Data Protection Act 1998", "text": "Data Protection Act 1998\n\nThe Data Protection Act 1998 (c 29) is a United Kingdom Act of Parliament designed to protect personal data stored on computers or in an organised paper filing system. It enacted the EU Data Protection Directive 1995's provisions on the protection, processing and movement of data. \n\nUnder the DPA 1998, individuals had legal rights to control information about themselves. Most of the Act did not apply to domestic use, for example keeping a personal address book. Anyone holding personal data for other purposes was legally obliged to comply with this Act, subject to some exemptions. The Act defined eight data protection principles to ensure that information was processed lawfully.\n\nIt was superseded by the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA 2018) on 23 May 2018. The DPA 2018 supplements the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which came into effect on 25 May 2018. The GDPR regulates the collection, storage, and use of personal data significantly more strictly.\n\nThe 1998 Act replaced the Data Protection Act 1984 and the Access to Personal Files Act 1987, and implemented the EU Data Protection Directive 1995. \n\nThe Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 altered the consent requirement for most electronic marketing to \"positive consent\" such as an opt-in box. Exemptions remain for the marketing of \"similar products and services\" to existing customers and enquirers, which can still be given permission on an opt out basis.\n\nThe Jersey data protection law was modelled on the UK law.\n\nSection 1 defines \"personal data\" as any data that can be used to identify a living individual. Anonymised or aggregated data is less regulated by the Act, providing the anonymisation or aggregation has not been done in a reversible way. Individuals can be identified by various means including their name and address, telephone number or email address. The Act applies only to data which is held, or intended to be held, on computers ('equipment operating automatically in response to instructions given for that purpose'), or held in a 'relevant filing system'.\n\nIn some cases paper records may be classified as a 'relevant filing system', such as an address book or a salesperson's diary used to support commercial activities.\n\nThe Freedom of Information Act 2000 modified the act for public bodies and authorities, and the \"Durant\" case modified the interpretation of the act by providing case law and precedent.\n\nA person who has their data processed has the following rights:\n\nSchedule 1 lists eight \"data protection principles\".\n\nPersonal data should only be processed fairly and lawfully. In order for data to be classed as 'fairly processed', at least one of these six conditions must be applicable to that data (Schedule 2).\n\nExcept under the below mentioned exceptions, the individual needs to consent to the collection of their personal information and its use in the purpose(s) in question. The European Data Protection Directive defines consent as “…any freely given specific and informed indication of his wishes by which the data subject signifies his agreement to personal data relating to him being processed”, meaning the individual may \"signify\" agreement other than in writing. However, non-communication should not be interpreted as consent.\n\nAdditionally, consent should be appropriate to the age and capacity of the individual and other circumstances of the case. E.g., if an organization \"intends to continue to hold or use personal data after the relationship with the individual ends, then the consent should cover this.\" And even when consent is given, it shouldn't be assumed to last forever. Although in most cases consent lasts for as long as the personal data needs to be processed, individuals may be able to withdraw their consent, depending on the nature of the consent and the circumstances in which the personal information is being collected and used.\n\nThe Data Protection Act also specifies that sensitive personal data must be processed according to a stricter set of conditions, in particular any consent must be explicit.\n\nThe Act is structured such that all processing of personal data is covered by the act, while providing a number of exceptions in Part IV. Notable exceptions are:\n\nThe Act grants or acknowledges various police and court powers.\n\nThe Act details a number of civil and criminal offences for which data controllers may be liable if a data controller has failed to gain appropriate consent from a data subject. However, 'consent' is not specifically defined in the Act and so is a common law matter.\n\nThe UK Data Protection Act is a large Act that has a reputation for complexity. While the basic principles are honoured for protecting privacy, interpreting the act is not always simple. Many companies, organisations and individuals seem very unsure of the aims, content and principles of the Act. Some hide behind the Act and refuse to provide even very basic, publicly available material quoting the Act as a restriction. The Act also impacts on the way in which organisations conduct business in terms of who can be contacted for marketing purposes, not only by telephone and direct mail but also electronically and has led to the development of permission based marketing strategies.\n\nThe definition of personal data is data relating to a living individual who can be identified\n\nSensitive personal data concerns the subject's race, ethnicity, politics, religion, trade union status, health, sex life or criminal record.\n\nThe Information Commissioner's Office website states regarding Subject Access Requests (SARs): \"You have the right to find out if an organisation is using or storing your personal data. This is called the right of access. You exercise this right by asking for a copy of the data, which is commonly known as making a ‘subject access request\".\nBefore the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into force on 25 May 2018 organisations could charge a specified fee for responding to a SAR, of up to £10 for most requests. Following the GDPR: \"\"A copy of your personal data should be provided free. An organisation may charge for additional copies. It can only charge a fee if it thinks the request is ‘manifestly unfounded or excessive’. If so, it may ask for a reasonable fee for administrative costs associated with the request\".\"\n\nCompliance with the Act is regulated and enforced by an independent authority, the Information Commissioner's Office, which maintains guidance relating to the Act. \n\nIn January 2017 the Information Commissioner's Office invited public comments on the EU’s Article 29 Working Party's proposed changes to data protection law and the anticipated introduction of extensions to the interpretation of the Act, the Guide to the General Data Protection Regulation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49107089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49107089", "title": "Deditio (ritual)", "text": "Deditio (ritual)\n\nDeditio or deditiones was a ritual of submission in medieval Europe. It was a ceremony of subjection between a monarch and his subject, and included the latter bowing or laying by the feet of the monarch, barefooted and wearing ropes. It was a planned ceremony, agreed upon, and was used as a means of avoidance of escalation of conflicts, a strategy of peaceful solving of conflicts.\n"}
{"id": "44420717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44420717", "title": "F4 British Championship", "text": "F4 British Championship\n\nF4 British Championship (full name F4 British Championship certified by FIA — powered by Ford, formerly known as MSA Formula) is a single-seater motorsport series based in the United Kingdom. The series will be run to the FIA's Formula 4 regulations, and is administered by Motor Sports Association. The championship is designed as a low-cost entrance to car racing, and is aimed at young racing drivers moving up from karting.\n\nThe championship replaces the British Formula Ford Championship, and uses a chassis produced by Mygale and engines from Ford. The series is part of the TOCA tour, a series of events run alongside the British Touring Car Championship.\n\nEach championship event consists of three races. The series is run in support of the BTCC\n\nFifteen-year-olds are eligible to compete in the series, after the MSA lowered the age limit for single-seater championships. The winner of the championship will be named the FIA Formula 4 champion, and will be rewarded a test with a FIA European Formula Three Championship team.\n\nMygale provide a carbon-fibre monocoque chassis. The engine is a Ford 1.6L EcoBoost engine as used in the more modern Formula Ford cars, tuned to a maximum of 160 PS. All engines are prepared and tuned by Sodemo, to lower costs and ensure engine equalisation. Hankook are the sole tyre supplier, with the cars running on the same compound and construction rubber as used in Formula Three. Sadev provide the sequential paddle shift transmission. The engine control unit is an F88GDI4 from Life Racing which features integrated paddle shift control, GPS track mapping and also functions as the complete data acquisition system.\n\nThe total price of purchasing the car is capped at £36,000.\n"}
{"id": "45438729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45438729", "title": "Feeding Everyone No Matter What", "text": "Feeding Everyone No Matter What\n\nFood storage for the entire global population is the only historical solution for a global disruption of conventional agriculture due to global catastrophes such as abrupt climate change and nuclear winter, despite three decades of awareness of the problem. But for large global catastrophes, at least five years of supplies are needed because agriculture would be hampered for that time. This large of a stockpile is economically prohibitive on a global scale or even within the US. The number of global catastrophes that apply is large and the book analyzed five crop-destroying catastrophes (sudden climate change, super-weeds, super-bacteria, super-pests and super-pathogens) and three sunlight-extinguishing events (supervolcano eruption, asteroid or comet impact, and nuclear winter).\n\nThe book Feeding Everyone No Matter What proposes more than 10 solutions for providing the global food supply according to \"Discovery News\".\n\nThe study that is the foundation of the book involves interdisciplinarity and gives instructions for the survivalism movement. \"Feeding Everyone No Matter What\" has been covered extensively by the international media. Io9 writes that it takes into account potential realistic scenarios, such as crop blights and nuclear winter. Seeker covered some of the foods recommended for a catastrophe. Michigan Tech News interviewed author Joshua Pearce on the solutions presented in the book.\n\n\"Feeding Everyone No Matter What\" is also known by organizations working on the prevention of Global Catastrophic Risks. Future of Life Institute published an article by author Dave Denkenberger and the Centre for the Study of Existential Risk published his lecture on the book. \"Feeding Everyone No Matter What\" was used as a resource in the Global Challenges Foundation Annual Report on Global Risks. \n\n\"Feeding Everyone No Matter What\" proposes a fall-back plan for the worst catastrophes such as a Supervolcano erupting. It outlines the cost-effectiveness of alternative foods for disaster preparedness. \"Science\", goes over the book's plan for feeding everyone in the case of the sun being blocked. Alternative foods can be developed to respond to agriculturally damaging catastrophes all over the world. The Global Catastrophic Risk Institute sees this as one piece of the assessing and preparing for Global catastrophic risks. \n\nThe authors, David Denkenberger and Joshua Pearce, claim alternate food sources could feed everyone even if the sun is blocked by catastrophes like nuclear winter, supervolcano eruption, or large asteroid/comet impact. At first this appears unlikely because malnutrition and hunger-related disease now kill 6.5 million children under five years old each year. This is because the book focuses on what is technically possible and assumes global cooperation. The solutions also address crises including abrupt climate change, super weeds, super crop pests (animals, e.g. insects), super bacteria (e.g. disrupts beneficial bacteria) and super crop pathogens. The solution using fossil fuel energy source is natural gas digesting bacteria.\n\nA solution if the sun is not completely blocked is ocean fertilization because 0.1% of the ocean area undergoes coastal upwelling (bringing nutrients to the surface) and yet this produces 50% of the world's fish catch. Ruminants and other grazers can digest dietary fiber, but do not have enough offspring to feed everyone within 5 years. Mushrooms can grow directly on wood without sunlight. Some beetles can digest cellulose.\n\nCellulosic biofuel production typically already creates sugar as an intermediate product. There are edible calories in leaves, but there is too much dietary fiber, so solutions include making tea, chewing and not swallowing the solids, and making leaf protein concentrate. Biomass can be predigested by bacteria so that animals that are poor at digesting cellulose can derive nutrition, such as rats and possibly chickens.\n\nAs a backup plan, it is even possible that humans could eat this predigested biomass. In a sun-obscuring crisis, stored food would last the human population less than one year. The book shows how many of these solutions can be ramped up in less than one year.\n\nThis book also addresses other issues, including energy supply, water supply, forest products, human nutrition, and preserving endangered species. Furthermore, the book gives instructions for the prepper movement.\n\nThe authors themselves admitted a potential moral hazard with publishing the solutions, as for example Mikhail Gorbachev would explicitly state that a motivating factor for reducing the nuclear arsenal of the USSR was the concept of nuclear winter, however the politician would neglect to mention the primary \"politically incorrect\" factor, which was the crumbling Soviet economy could no longer pay for its militarism. \n\nHowever, despite the popularity of the concept of \"nuclear winter\", there is a clear and present threat of anthropogenic abrupt climate change and the results of efforts to prevent global climate change have been ineffective. In their analysis, Denkenberger and Pearce argue that the benefits of a food solution backup plan would reduce overall harm to humanity in the global catastrophes over which control is possible and could reduce the damages associated with catastrophes over which humanity has very little or no control (e.g. supervolcanoes).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13036355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13036355", "title": "Fettisdagen", "text": "Fettisdagen\n\nFettisdagen (\"The Fat Tuesday\") is the Swedish name for the Tuesday after the Quinquagesima and the day between Shrove Monday and Ash Wednesday. Because it is the last day before the Lenten fast, a tradition has developed of eating buns, called \"fastlagsbullar\", \"fettisdagsbullar\" (Fat Tuesday Buns) or \"semla\". The day is also called \"White Tuesday\" because the buns are made out of white flour.\n\nThe day is called \"Mardi Gras\" in France, \"Carnaval\" or \"Vastenavond\" in the Netherlands, \"Laskiainen\" (or \"fastlagstisdagen\") in Finland, \"vastlapäev\" in Estonia, and \"Fastelavn\" in Denmark. In the UK it is known as Shrove Tuesday or Pancake Day.\n\n"}
{"id": "37516188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37516188", "title": "Grain entrapment", "text": "Grain entrapment\n\nGrain entrapment, or grain engulfment, occurs when a person becomes submerged in grain and cannot get out without assistance. This more frequently occurs at storage facilities such as silos or grain elevators, but has been known to occur around any large quantity of grain, even freestanding piles outdoors. Usually, unstable grain collapses suddenly, wholly or partially burying workers who may be within it. Entrapment occurs when victims are partially submerged but cannot remove themselves; engulfment occurs when they are completely buried within the grain. Engulfment has a very high fatality rate.\n\nWhile the death rate from workplace accidents on American farms has declined in the first decade of the 21st century, grain-entrapment deaths have not, reaching an all-time annual high of 26 in 2010. Many of those victims have been minors. Agricultural organizations have worked to protect them and improve rescue techniques, as well as spread awareness among farmers of prevention methods. Primary among these is a federal regulation that forbids opening an auger or other opening at the bottom of a grain storage facility while someone is known to be \"walking down the grain\" within.\n\nSmaller family farms, however, are exempt from most federal labor regulation specific to agriculture, and no safety regulations govern children working for their parents. In 2011 the U.S. Department of Labor proposed sweeping new regulations that would have changed this, prohibiting underage workers from being allowed to enter silos, among other provisions. They were withdrawn after protests from farmers and politicians of both U.S. parties.\n\nAt some grain-handling facilities, employees \"walk down the grain\" on top of it to expedite the flow of grain from the top when it is being allowed to flow out the bottom. This is the most common cause of grain entrapments. Regulations issued by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) specifically forbid this at larger commercial facilities subject to them; most smaller farms are not. It may also be necessary to enter a grain storage facility to remove damp, clumped grain (usually from early spoilage) stuck on the walls. Entrapments have also occurred to children in grain transportation vehicles, or to those outside when grain is released from a storage facility or next to large freestanding grain piles.\n\nWorkers in the grain can become entrapped in three different ways. An apparently stable surface may in fact be a \"grain bridge\" over an area beneath which the grain has already settled. A vertical mass of grain settled against a wall may suddenly give way while being cleared. Moving grain will not support the weight of an average person.\n\nOnce entrapment begins, it happens very quickly due to the suction-like action of the grain; half of all entrapment victims eventually become engulfed. A human body in grain takes seconds to sink, minutes to suffocate, and hours to locate and recover. Recovered bodies have shown signs of blunt force trauma from the impact of the grain; one victim was found to have a dislocated jaw.\n\nHowever, suffocation does not occur from the weight of the grain, rather from the grain itself. If a victim's airway remains unobstructed, or they find an air pocket within the grain, they may be able to keep breathing and be rescued. In one instance a trapped person was able to survive for three hours.\n\nSeveral factors complicate the rescue of entrapment victims even if their heads remain above the grain. Most grain storage and handling facilities are located on farms in rural areas, often distant from trained rescuers such as fire or ambulance services. They are also confined spaces, posing hazards to rescuers.\n\nForemost among them is the air within. Carbon dioxide or toxic gases, such as or nitrogen oxides, accumulate from spoiling grain. They can cause asphyxiation in great enough concentrations without proper ventilation of the area. The dust can also sometimes have molds or spores that may be toxic or cause allergic reactions. There is at least one documented instance of a first responder requiring treatment as a result of such inhalation; rescuers are advised to wear at least dust masks or even self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA).\n\nAs soon as an entrapment occurs, in addition to immediately notifying local emergency services, the workers at the facility should shut off anything causing motion in the grain, or close any outlet. The aeration fan should be turned on to improve ventilation, but without any heat source activated. Rescuers must always take care not to make the situation worse, or take action that would result in they themselves becoming entrapped or engulfed. They should wear proper safety equipment such as lifelines. No more than two should walk on the surface of the grain at any time.\n\nTemperature extremes can cause problems for both rescuers and victims. Stored grain is often kept fresh by blowing dry air over it. This, combined with any moisture in the grain, can chill its core to 30–40 °F (−1–5 °C), creating a risk of hypothermia for the victim, especially one fully engulfed. Conversely, the air within the bin may be warmer than usual due to the heat released by decaying grain, the lack of exterior ventilation (especially on hot days) and any rescue activity; there is thus a risk of heat illness for those trying to free the victim.\n\nEven if a living victim is roped, they cannot simply be removed that way. Grain creates friction that resists the force used to pull them out. It requires of force to lift a victim buried up to their waist; removing a human completely trapped in grain takes . Both of these amounts are above the level that can cause permanent spinal column injury.\n\nRescues of an entrapped victim usually entail building makeshift retaining walls in the grain around them with plywood, sheet metal, tarpaulins, snow fences or any other similar material available. Once that has been done, the next step is creating the equivalent of a cofferdam within the grain from which grain can then be removed by hand, shovel, grain vacuum or other extraction equipment. While some of these techniques have been used to retrieve engulfed victims or their bodies as well, in those cases it is also common to attempt to cut a hole in the side of the storage facility; this requires consulting an engineer to make sure it can be done without compromising the facility's structural integrity. There is also the possibility of a dust explosion, although none are known to have occurred yet during a rescue attempt.\n\nThe best way to prevent grain entrapments is to store grain properly. If kept at the proper moisture level of 14% or less and protected from the elements, grain will not form the kind of clumps that create grain bridges or other areas of unequal density within. Entrapments are more likely when grain is more spoiled. \"Coring\" grain by removing some of it from the center after the facility has been filled also reduces spoilage since it generally takes the broken and smaller grains where insects tend to start growing within.\n\nStrict policies about entering the area where grain is stored further prevent entrapments. Workers should never be alone, but if they must be they should have a radio or cell phone to communicate. Signs indicating the potential hazard should be posted at the entry, and anyone who does not have a good reason to be in the grain should never be there.\n\nOSHA's regulations require that employees who enter stored grain do so attached to either a lifeline or boatswain's chair, that one other employee be assigned to observe them, and that rescue equipment adequate to the task be available. At farms and feedlots not subject to those regulations, it is sometimes common to tie a permanent lifeline to the inside of the storage facility. This has not been found to be effective, as the grain's suction often pulls the victim under the surface too fast for them to reach it, and most are not secured firmly enough that they would not fail under the load.\n\nSince 1978, the Agricultural Health and Safety Program at Purdue University in Indiana has documented grain-entrapment incidents. Its National Agricultural Confined Space Incident Database has, as of 2011, records on 900 reported entrapments dating to 1964. The program has analyzed them to find consistent patterns in the hope of improving prevention and rescue efforts. Among the statistically significant patterns it has found are the type of grain in which incidents predominantly occur, the geographic locations of incidents, the type of facility they occur in and the demographics of victims.\n\nMore than half the recorded entrapments and engulfments have occurred in corn. Other grains in which victims have become entrapped include soybeans, oats, wheat, flax and canola. Given the predominance of corn as an entrapment medium, most incidents occur in the Corn Belt states (Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota and Ohio) where that grain is grown and stored in quantity. Farms in states in the Upper Midwest and West, where humidity is lower and smaller grains are preferred, report fewer incidents. Over 70% of entrapments have occurred on small or family farms of the type exempt from OSHA grain-handling regulations.\n\nVictims have been exclusively male. Three-quarters of them have been farmers, farm workers, or members of farm families. The average age of victims is in the 40s, but a disproportionate share are under 18 (youths 16 or older can work in agriculture without any restrictions). According to Purdue professor Bill Field, entrapments in vehicles are particularly devastating for farm families, as 95% of the 140 deaths that occurred that way were boys under the age of 11.\n\nIn 2010, the researchers noted that 38 incidents had occurred during 2009, when the national corn harvest set a new record. This was not only the highest since 1993, it capped a period in which the five-year average had steadily increased. This rose to a record-setting 51 in 2010, when a similarly large corn harvest had a high moisture content and low test weight. Observers speculate that the demand for ethanol fuel production has fostered the increase of corn in storage. The record entrapments ran counter to the trend of declining accidents in agriculture.\n\nAt the same time, more victims are being successfully rescued. Before 2005, a quarter of the victims were saved. Since then, the rate has improved to half. In 2011, when entrapments declined to 27, only 8 resulted in fatalities.\n\nAfter a 2010 entrapment at a commercial grain elevator complex in Illinois killed two workers aged 14 and 19, while a third survived with injuries, OSHA assessed fines of over half a million dollars against the operators (eventually collecting little over a quarter-million). It sent letters to other grain-handling facilities afterwards reminding them of their legal and moral obligations to prevent such deaths. A year later, after another incident in Oklahoma where two teenaged boys lost legs to a sweep auger, the agency proposed new rules on child labor in agriculture.\n\nThey were the most extensive changes proposed in that area in a half-century. Most minors working in agriculture work for farms with fewer than ten employees, which are exempt from most federal workplace-safety laws and regulations. Children who work on their parents' farm are completely outside the scope of those laws, since it is believed that their parents would not let them do hazardous work. The proposed regulations, which took up 49 pages in the \"Federal Register\", would have changed that. In its preface to the proposed regulations, the department noted that while agriculture employs only 4% of the country's underage workers, those workers account for 40% of overall deaths on the job.\n\nHowever, the regulations drew opposition. While they preserved the exemption for small family farms, many observers, even proponents, felt they had overreached in scope and would prevent children of farm families from learning important skills at an early age. Even some of the family members of teenage boys who had died in entrapments told the media that the proposed rules went too far. Opposition mounted in Congress, where it was claimed that the proposed regulations were so broad they could have prevented children from doing chores on their parents' farms. Several Democratic senators from rural states facing hotly contested elections, such as Jon Tester, Claire McCaskill and Debbie Stabenow, complained about them personally to President Barack Obama.\n\nIn 2012, the Labor Department withdrew them, taking the unusual step of indicating, as it did so, that \"this regulation will not be pursued for the duration of the Obama administration.\" Instead, the department said it would continue to work with youth-oriented agricultural organizations like the 4-H and FFA to increase awareness of safe work practices on farms. It has also begun levying more and heavier fines for safety violations.\n\nUsers of the social media platform Tumblr have, throughout the 2010s, made occasional memes around grain entrapment. In late 2016, after one popular user reposted to his blog some \"choice excerpts\" from the Wikipedia article about grain entrapment along with a video showing a mannequin sinking in flowing grain, they began to increase. Finally, in October 2017, a Tumblr account dedicated to grain-entrapment memes was created. The most popular ones were widely reblogged. \n\"One popular way of using the grain entrapment meme,\" \"The Daily Dot\" reported, \"is as a metaphor for a bad, seemingly inescapable situation.\" Most commonly, users overlaid screenshots from the video of the mannequin with text metaphorically describing the grain as whatever might be taking up more and more of their time, such as work or the Internet. \"But it's gotten to the point where any reference to grain entrapment can be part of the meme, whether it makes sense or not.\"\n\nThe \"Dot\" said the Tumblr community's fascination with grain entrapment was easy to understand, as \"it's a rare and bizarre way to go\". A Tumblr user the website's article quoted agreed: that involves people dying at the mercy of impersonal forces seems to resonate with people in this day and age.\" The site noted that families who have actually lost a member to grain entrapment would probably not see it as an inside joke. But \"it's a phenomenon far enough removed from the lives of most Tumblr teens that they seem to feel comfortable joking about it.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "625566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=625566", "title": "Hey Sandy", "text": "Hey Sandy\n\n\"Hey Sandy\" is a song by the American indie rock band Polaris which serves as the theme song for the Nickelodeon television show \"The Adventures of Pete & Pete\". It's well-known by fans of the show and the band alike for its lyrics, which are not only nearly indecipherable in the first place, but also have generated considerable debate as to their meaning.\n\nThe full lyrics were a subject of speculation for several years until they were (mostly) revealed to fans by band members. One line, the third one and the most difficult one to understand, was purposefully left a mystery by head songwriter Mark Mulcahy. The song may have referenced the Kent State shootings and Sandra Lee Scheuer (being the eponymous \"Sandy\" of the song), although the actual meaning of the song is in debate.\n\nOn the DVD set, the subtitles render the third line as \"Can you settle to shoot me?\", but are not claimed to be an official interpretation of the song's lyrics. \n\nOn the DVD commentary for season 2 of \"The Adventures of Pete and Pete\", one of the show's creators, Chris Viscardi, mentions the missing lyric and says, \"I've actually become very passionate about keeping that line a secret.\" There has been a lot of speculation about the missing line, and most people guess that it was originally kept a secret because \"Pete & Pete\" was a family show.\n\nThe full album version of \"Hey Sandy\" contains an introduction with a man speaking the following words:\n\nBesides a reference to the band's name, this sound bite is in fact discussing United States ballistic missiles designed during the Cold War:\n\nThe initial sample is abruptly cut off and followed by another sample of a radio transmission, ostensibly from a military base:\n\nThere is a cover version of \"Hey Sandy\" by the New Jersey band Mister Behavior, as well as by California math rock band Tera Melos on their covers EP Idioms, Vol. I\n\n"}
{"id": "6496834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6496834", "title": "In Extremis (play)", "text": "In Extremis (play)\n\nIn Extremis: The Story of Abelard & Heloise is a play by Howard Brenton on the story of Heloise and Abelard, which premiered at the Globe Theatre on 27 August 2006 with a 15 performance run. The play was directed by John Dove with design by Michael Taylor, and music by William Lyons. It was revived for a 2-week run from 15 May 2007 with the same director and most of the same cast.\n\nAn early draft of the play was written in 1997 at the University of California at Davis during Brenton's term as its Granada Fellow, and performed by MFA students of its Drama Department (with Sarah Pia Anderson directing).\n\nIn twelfth century Paris, a new spirit of philosophical and religious enquiry is growing. Within its vanguard is Peter Abelard, a man of great learning, independence of mind, and sensuality. When he enters into an affair with his equally brilliant but disastrously connected student Heloise, his more conservative enemies find just the pretext they need to discredit him and in so doing start a war of ideas. Through the joy and suffering exhibited in this love story set in the Middle Ages, Brenton explores the relationships between logic and religion, humanism and fundamentalism, and faith and power, and projects modern debates on fundamentalism, the Enlightenment and feminism back on this historical situation.\n\nAbelard, arguing with his teacher William of Champeaux, sets up a new, dialectic philosophical school of his own, which proves popular and is even fashionable at the royal court of France. One of his followers is Heloise, with whom he also starts a sexual affair, under the guise of private tuition. His school's success worries Bernard of Clairvaux, who feels it is subjecting divine revelation to reason and may thus destroy the Roman Catholic Church and Christianity itself, but for now he merely subjects Abelard to surveillance rather than opposition. Bernard and Abelard do meet, briefly, at the court when Bernard goes there to force the king to give back lands he had seized illegally from a French bishop. Abelard tries to explain that he is not trying to destroy religion but to better understand it through reason using the brain and intellect that God has given him. However, Bernard will not accept this and refuses to accept Abelard's challenge to dispute with him publicly, as Bernard dogmatically feels he is right and Abelard is wrong and so there is nothing to dispute.\n\nBernard's agents Alberic and Lotholf reveal the affair to Heloise's uncle and surrogate father Fulbert, a canon of Notre Dame, and he is disgusted by it. Abelard offers to marry Heloise to resolve the situation and remove the disgrace, but she refuses, wanting to be his lover rather than conform to the oppressive norm of medieval marriage. She is smuggled out of Paris to Abelard's sister Denise in Brittany, where she gives birth to their child and waits until two years later Abelard arrives. They return to Paris and get married secretly in Fulbert's garden, but he then refuses to accept a secret marriage and they flee together to a nunnery where Heloise was taught as a girl. There they are kept apart in separate rooms, but secretly consummate their marriage on the altar of the monastery chapel. Abelard is then hunted down and castrated by Fulbert's cousins in Fulbert's presence, and both he and Heloise are forced to enter monasteries.\n\nBernard at last accepts the challenge to publicly dispute with Abelard before the king and bishops of France, but this turns into a show trial when Bernard immediately lists 12 points on which Abelard is heretical and Abelard refuses to answer them, maintaining a complete dignified silence and thus forcing his chief supporter the king to back Bernard and declare Abelard a heretic. Abelard and Bernard meet, and fail to make a reconciliation, and then Heloise attends Abelard on his deathbed. After Abelard's death, Bernard burns all of Abelard's heretical works and thus thinks he has won the struggle with him. He then goes to Heloise to affect a reconciliation, but this also fails. The play then ends abruptly with Heloise anachronistically showing Bernard a 20th-century, Penguin copy of the couple's letters, to prove that he has not erased Abelard and Heloise from history as effectively as he thought.\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> - Described in the programme by Brenton as \"a kind of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern double act\", comic relief from the main themes.\n\n"}
{"id": "31083339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31083339", "title": "International Film Music Critics Association", "text": "International Film Music Critics Association\n\nThe International Film Music Critics Association (IFMCA) is a professional association for online, print and radio journalists who specialize in writing about original film and television music.\n\nThe IFMCA was founded in the late 1990s as the Film Music Critics Jury by film music journalist Mikael Carlsson (now the owner of film music record label MovieScore Media), and after period of inactivity was re-launched in 2003 under its new title.\n\nIts membership includes 65 journalists from 16 different countries who write for such high-profile film and soundtrack-related publications and websites as Film Score Monthly, Filmtracks, SoundtrackNet, Music from the Movies and UnderScores, as well as more mainstream publications such as Ain't It Cool News, Variety, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" and the Irish Times. Members of the IFMCA have also been involved in writing liner notes for major film music record labels such as Film Score Monthly, Varèse Sarabande, Intrada Records, La-La Land Records and Music Box Records.\n\nThe aim of the group is to promote original film music and the work of film music composers as legitimate artists worthy of recognition from the mainstream film and music media, and to publicize the work of its members in pursuing this aim. To this end, the group maintains a website documenting its activities; operates a central online review interface which provides links to articles, reviews and interviews written by its members; organizes an annual awards event, the IFMCA Awards, celebrating music for films written during the preceding year; and is involved in organizing major international film music festivals, such as those in Tenerife, Úbeda in Spain, Kraków in Poland, and the World Soundtrack Awards in Ghent, Belgium.\n\nThe organization is responsible for the annual International Film Music Critics Association Awards, the only awards given to composers by active film music journalists, and which are seen by many as a valuable precursor to the Academy Awards in the absence of a guild for composers. They have been called the \"Oscars of film music\", have been featured in major daily newspapers in Spain and Portugal, are recognized by major performing rights organizations such as ASCAP in the United States and SGAE in Europe, and most recently have been seen by the video games industry as an important step forward in legitimizing game music as a mainstream creative art form.\n\nComposers as varied as John Debney, Alexandre Desplat, Randy Edelman, George Fenton, Michael Giacchino, James Newton Howard Mark Isham, Andrew Lockington, Abel Korzeniowski, Brian Tyler, Fernando Velázquez and Debbie Wiseman highlight their IFMCA Award wins and nominations in their official biographies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11259523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11259523", "title": "International Mr Gay Competition", "text": "International Mr Gay Competition\n\nMr. Gay International was the first international contest to select an Ambassador or spokesman to support the mission of the sponsoring nonprofit corporation, the Noble Beast Foundation. President of the Noble Beast Foundation is Don Spradlin, who founded and produced the first three Competitions with a team of dedicated volunteers. Carlos Melia, native from Argentina was the second International Mr Gay, elected and crowned in Los Angeles, California in 2008. The last International Mr. Gay titleholder was Pablo Salvador Sepúlveda from Chile. The competition has been \"de-facto\" replaced by Mr Gay World.\n\n\"(To) advocate International Equal Rights by confirming the essential nature and contributions of gay men to a healthy society where \"gay\" is not a stereotype\"\n\nThe event explicitly seeks to highlight discrimination against LGBTI people and provide select positive role models. A number of contestants from a number of countries has faced sanctions for their selection or competition, including Zoltan Parag from India, Taurai Zhanje from Zimbabwe, Robel Hailu from Ethiopia, former Olympian Chavdar Arsov from Bulgaria, Wendelinus Hamutenya from Namibia and Xiao Dai from China.\n\nThe third edition of International Mr Gay International, took place in Los Angeles, California. Carlos Melia, was crowned as IMG 2008, representing his country of origin as Mr Gay Argentina.\nAs International Mr. Gay, Carlos traveled extensively, not only in his own community but on a global stage, as an ambassador and spokesperson for equal and human rights, fundraising and endorsing LGBT organizations and events worldwide.\n\nIn 2009, by the end of his reign, after a successful performance, he was invited to join the Board of Directors of Mr Gay World, and appointed Executive Director of Central and South America and the Caribbean.\n\nThe next US Finale was held in San Francisco’s Museum of Performance and Design in November 2008 when Michael Jarvis was named the US Delegate to the IMG. The International Competition was assigned to the Philippine producers for May 2009, in preparation for the first time the IMG Competition would be produced outside of the United States.\n\nThe IMG was scheduled for Manila in the Philippines for the summer of 2009, but the Manila team failed to produce the contest hence, competition was moved back to California.\n\nThe 2009 MGI competition was held in Bakersfield, California where Switzerland’s Ricco Müller proclaimed as the International Mr. Gay title holder for 2009. Rounding up the top five are Australia- 1st Runner Up, USA- 2nd Runner Up, Philippines- 3rd runner up and Puerto Rico- 4th runner up). Ricco Müller is a Student and Artist, Traineeship Daniel Libeskind Architects. Ricco Müller will now work as an International Mr Gay Ambassador to improve the visibility of gay men and Supports for AIDS-aid, Europride 2009 and Deaf Community.\n\nOn January 2011, Pablo Salvador Sepúlveda, activist and Teacher of History, competed in the International Mr Gay Competition and won the title. As International Mr. Gay, Pablo Salvador work for the international LGBT community and travel to Chile, Uruguay and Argentina. Pablo appeared on various Radio and Television Stations in Chile as gay spokesman.\n\n"}
{"id": "28136489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28136489", "title": "International PuntaClassic Festival", "text": "International PuntaClassic Festival\n\nThe International PuntaClassic Festival is an opera festival in Punta del Este, Uruguay. It takes place every January (for three weeks starting in late December) with performances of both operas and concerts.\n\nThe festival was founded by soprano Luz del Alba Rubio, who is also the Artistic Director.\n\nThe company has presented popular Italian operas in addition to a Gala-concert, \"Latin sopranos\" in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15866", "title": "January 27", "text": "January 27\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902785", "title": "Jenson v. Eveleth Taconite Co.", "text": "Jenson v. Eveleth Taconite Co.\n\nJenson v. Eveleth Taconite Co., 130 F.3d 1287 (8th Cir. 1997), was the first class-action sexual harassment lawsuit in the United States. It was filed in 1988 on behalf of Lois Jenson and other female workers at the EVTAC mine in Eveleth, Minnesota on the state's northern Mesabi Range, which is part of the Iron Range.\n\nJenson first began working at the site in March 1975 and along with other women, endured a continuous stream of hostile behavior from male employees, including sexual harassment, abusive language, threats, stalking and intimidation. On October 5, 1984, she mailed a complaint to the Minnesota Department of Human Rights outlining the problems she experienced. In retaliation, her car tires were slashed a week later. In January 1987, the state's agency requested that Ogelbay Norton Co., a Cleveland, Ohio-based part-owner of the mine, pay US$6,000 in punitive damages and $5,000 to Jenson for mental anguish, but the company refused.\n\nOn August 15, 1988, attorney Paul Sprenger filed \"Lois E. Jenson and Patricia S. Kosmach v. Eveleth Taconite Co.\" in U.S. District Court in the U.S. District Court in Minneapolis. Class-action status was requested at the time, and granted by James M. Rosenbaum on December 16, 1991. Jenson quit working at the mine on January 25, 1992, and was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder a short time later.\n\nA liability trial began on December 17, 1992, in front of Judge Richard Kyle in St. Paul, Minnesota, and six months later, he ruled that the company should have prevented the misconduct. The company was ordered to educate all employees about sexual harassment.\n\nPatrick McNulty of Duluth was named special master a few months later to oversee a trial that would determine the amount of money owed to the women in damages. The retired federal magistrate permitted lawyers from the mine company to obtain medical records of all of the women for their entire lifetimes. Ahead of the trial, the plaintiffs endured long depositions that explored their personal lives in great detail.\n\nThe first half of the trial for damages began in Duluth on January 17, 1995 and lasted until February 10. After a break, it resumed on May 22 and ended on June 13.\n\nOn March 28, 1996, McNulty released a 416-page report that called the women \"histrionic,\" made public details about their private lives, and awarded them an average of $10,000 each. However, the judgment was appealed and reversed by the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals on December 5, 1997. A new jury trial on damages was ordered.\n\nOn December 23, 1998, just before the trial was set to begin, fifteen women settled with Eveleth Mines for a total of $3.5 million. One of the original plaintiffs, Pat Kosmach, died partway through the case, on November 7, 1994.\n\nThe case was documented in the 2002 book \"Class Action\" and a 2005 fictionalized film version, \"North Country\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21685314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21685314", "title": "Kha b-Nisan", "text": "Kha b-Nisan\n\nKha b' Nisan or Ha b' Nisin, also \"Ha b' Nison\"; \"First of April\", Resha d'Sheta; \"Head of the year\" in Assyrian, also known as Akitu, or Assyrian New Year is the spring festival among the indigenous Assyrians of northern Iraq, northeastern Syria, southeastern Turkey and northwestern Iran, celebrated on 1 April.\n\nThe festival has its roots in the ancient Mesopotamian religion practiced by Assyrians until its gradual demise in the face of Syriac Christianity between the 1st and 4th centuries AD. Today Assyrians are Christians, with most being adherents of the Assyrian Church of the East, Chaldean Catholic Church, Syriac Orthodox Church, Ancient Church of the East, Assyrian Pentecostal Church and Assyrian Evangelical Church.\n\nCelebrations involve parades and parties. Some Assyrians wear traditional costume and dance in parks for hours. In Europe, Australia, the United States, Canada and the Caucasus among Assyrian Diaspora communities, there are often parties with food, music and dance.\n\nIn the Julian calendar, the vernal equinox moved gradually away from 21 March. The Gregorian calendar reform restored the vernal equinox to its original date, but since the festival was by now tied to the date, not the astronomical event, Kha b' Nisan remains fixed at 21 March in the Julian reckoning, corresponding to 1 April in the Gregorian calendar. The Vernal equinox is celebrated throughout Greater Iran as \"Noruz\" meaning \"New Day\" on 21 March. However, in the ancient Assyrian, Akkadian and Babylonian traditions, the spring festival was celebrated in the first days of the month known as \"Nisan\" and the calendar adopted by the ancient Assyrians had the month \"Nisan\" at the beginning of the calendar lending to the term \"Kha b' Nisan\", or the \"first of Nisan\".\n\nIn the 1950s, a rising upsurge in Assyrian nationalism resulted in the creation of an official \"Assyrian calendar\" with its era fixed at 4750 BC, inspired by an estimate of the date of the first temple at Ashur in the Middle Ubaid period. In the same spirit, the Akkadian name of the spring festival, \"Akitu\", was revived. It is essential to consider that the Assyrian people have generally celebrated \"Akitu\" on the first day of April since 4750 BC and that a creation of an official calendar would aim to unite the Assyrians in their nationalism.\n\nThe event is also largely celebrated by Assyrians residing in Syria. Although the Syrian government does not acknowledge the festival, Assyrians still continue with the celebration. In 2002, Assyrians in Syria celebrated the event with a mass wedding of 16 couples and over 25,000 attendees. After the formation of Turkey, Kha b' Nisan along with the Nowruz were banned from public to celebrate. Assyrians in Turkey were first allowed to publicly celebrate Kha b' Nisan in 2005, after organisers received permission from the government to stage the event, in light of democratic reforms adopted in support of Turkey's EU membership bid. Around 5,000 people \"including large groups of visiting ethnic Assyrians from Europe, Syria and Iraq\" took part in the Kha b' Nisan celebrations.\n\nOne of the largest Assyrian New Year celebration took place in Iraq in 2008. Public celebrations were not allowed by Saddam Hussein's regime prior to the start of the Iraq war. The event was organized by the Assyrian Democratic Movement and between 45,000 and 65,000 people took part in the parade.\n\nIn 2004, Hon. George Radanovich of the California State Assembly recognized the Assyrian New Year and extended his wishes to the Assyrian community in California. This was later followed by a letter from the California governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, to the Assyrian community in California congratulating them on the annual celebration.\n\nAssyrians celebrate Kha b' Nisan by holding social events including parades and parties. They also gather in clubs and social institutions and listen to the poets who recite the story of creation. The men and women wear traditional clothes and dance in parks for hours.\n\nIt has also become tradition to hold a parade down King Sargon Blvd in Chicago, Illinois, with the Assyrian organizations, churches, and sometimes businesses, each creating a float and participating in the parade.\n\nIt is a tradition in Assyrian villages for girls to gather flowers and herbs which are then suspended under the house's roof. The bunches are referred to as \"Deqna d' Nisan\", meaning \"beard of April/Spring\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30996261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30996261", "title": "Koszta Affair", "text": "Koszta Affair\n\nThe Koszta Affair (1853) was the name applied to a diplomatic episode between the United States and the Austrian Empire involving the rights in foreign countries of new Americans who were not yet fully naturalized.\n\nMartin Koszta, a man of Hungarian birth, had taken part in the political movement of 1848-49 for detaching Hungary from the dominion of the Emperor of Austria (of which it was part). He fled to Turkey upon the failure of that movement. After a short detention, he emigrated to the United States. In July 1852, he made a declaration under oath of his intention to become a citizen of the United States and, at the same time, renounced all allegiance to any foreign power.\n\nAfter residing in the United States for a year and eleven months, Koszta returned to Turkey on private business. He was placed under the protection of the United States by the American consul at Smyrna and the American chargé d'affaires \"ad interim\" at Constantinople. While waiting to return to the United States, Koszta was captured by Austrian officers and taken by force aboard the Austrian brig-of-war \"Huszár\" and confined in chains. United States officials protested in vain to the Turkish government and the Austrian officers.\n\nAmericans learned of rumors that the prisoner was to be transported secretly to Trieste. Under instructions from the American Minister at Istanbul, Captain Duncan Ingraham of the United States sloop-of-war \"Saint Louis\", which was then lying in Smyrna harbor, on July 2, 1853, threatened to open fire on the \"Huszar\" if Koszta was not surrendered to him by four o'clock. The Austrian consul general agreed to allow Koszta to be held by the consul general of France until some agreement with the United States was reached.\n\nOn August 29, 1853, Baron Hülsemann, the Austrian chargé d'affaires in Washington, wrote to Secretary of State William L. Marcy, asking for the United States to \"disavow the conduct of its agents, ... hasten to call them to a severe account, and tender to Austria a satisfaction proportionate to the outrage.\" He said that Koszta was not a naturalized citizen of the US and had never ceased to be a citizen of Austria-Hungary. Ingraham's threat was thus in violation of international law.\n\nMarcy replied on September 26, 1853, in what is known as the Hülsemann letter. He defended the position of the United States throughout on the ground that Koszta had ceased to be a citizen of Austria even by the law of Austria. His letter said;\n\nthat Koszta when seized and imprisoned was invested with the nationality of the United States, and they had therefore the right, if they chose to exercise it, to extend their protection to him; that from international law – the only law which can be rightfully appealed to for rules in this case – Austria could derive no authority to obstruct or interfere with the United States in the exercise of this right, in effecting the liberation of Koszta; and that Captain Ingraham's interposition for his release was, under the extraordinary circumstances of the case, right and proper.\n\nThe letter was published, to great enthusiasm throughout the United States. The State Department's position in relation to the status of immigrants who were not fully naturalized has been endorsed by various well-known authorities on international law.\n\nKoszta was ultimately released by Austria and allowed to return to the United States. The United States Congress passed a joint resolution of thanks to Captain Ingraham and decorated him with the Congressional Gold Medal, in commemoration of his services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39186096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39186096", "title": "Labour festival", "text": "Labour festival\n\nA labour festival (labor festival, US) is a festival related to the labour movement usually occurring annually. Labour festivals are some of the biggest political gatherings in Europe. Often they are outdoors in the summer and (more akin to a Fête) they incorporate music, (particularly brass band), parades, film, historical commemoration and food and drink. One of the well-known ones is Durham Miners' Gala attended by some 100,000 attendees. Some are run by communist or socialist parties such as Fête de l'Humanité, Fête de Lutte Ouvrière, Avante! Festival, Odigitis festival and Festa Democratica. Some were formerly so, such as Edinburgh Labour People's Festival. Some commemorate trade unionism or history such as Burston Strike School and Tolpuddle Martyrs festival.\n"}
{"id": "655973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=655973", "title": "List of association football competitions", "text": "List of association football competitions\n\nThis is a list of the association football competitions past and present for international teams and for club football, in individual countries and internationally. Confirmed future competitions, such as the 4 Associations' Tournament, are also included.\n\nThe competitions are grouped by organising authority: the FIFA (international association), the six confederations (continental associations), and the federations (national associations).\n\nThis section lists the worldwide and intercontinental competitions ruled by the FIFA, by two or more confederations or by two or more federations member of different confederations.\n\nNational teams\n\n\nInvitational tournaments are competitions that feature a cup, sometimes holding the name of the host country. The host country invites other nations to participate in the tournament.\n\n\nNational youth teams\n\nClubs\n\n\n\nThis section lists the competitions ruled by the Asian Football Confederation, or by federations member the Asian Football Confederation.\nNational teams\n\nClubs\n\n\nLeagues\n\nLeagues \nCups\n\nLeagues\n\nCups\n\nLeagues\n\nCups\n\n\n\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nLeagues\n\nCups\n\nDefunct\n\nLeagues\n\nDomestic cups\n\nInternational cups\n\nDefunct\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\n\n\n\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\n\n\n\nLeagues\n\nCups\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\n\n\nLeagues\n\nCups\n\n\n\nCups\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\n\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\nLeagues\n\nCups\n\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\nLeagues \nCups\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\nThis section lists the competitions ruled by the Confederation of African Football, or by federations member the Confederation of African Football.\nNational teams\n\nClubs\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis section lists the competitions ruled by the CONCACAF (Confederation of North, Central American, and Caribbean Association Football), or by federations member the CONCACAF.\nNational teams\nClubs\n\nLeagues\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\n\n\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nLeagues\n\n\n\nLeagues\n\nCups\n\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\n\n\nLeagues\n\nCups\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\n\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\nLeagues\n\n\nCups\n\n\n\nOutdoor\nIndoor\nThis section lists the competitions ruled by the CONMEBOL (Confederación Sudamericana de Fútbol), or by federations member the CONMEBOL.\nNational teams\nClubs\n\nLeagues\n\nCups\n\n\n\nNorth\n\n\nNortheast\n\n\nMidwest\n\n\nSoutheast\n\n\nSouth\n\n\nCups\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nLeagues\n\nLeagues\n\nCups\n\nLeagues\n\nLeagues\nCups\n\nThis section lists the competitions ruled by the Oceania Football Confederation, or by federations member the Oceania Football Confederation.\nNational teams\nClubs\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis section lists the competitions ruled by the UEFA (Union of European Football Associations), or by federations member the UEFA.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWomen's National League\nFAI Women's Cup\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAmateur football league — the all-Russian public organization under which aegis competitions for nonprofessional football clubs of Russia are held. \nFounders are the Russian football union and following inter-regional associations of federations of football of Russia:\n\nThey unite 79 regional federations of football of subjects of the Russian Federation. Presidents of inter-regional associations of federations of football are councilors of Amateur football league.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis section lists the competitions ruled by associations outside the FIFA.\n\n\"See Non-FIFA football\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis section lists competitions in former nations and territories.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "945818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=945818", "title": "List of epidemics", "text": "List of epidemics\n\nThis article is a list of epidemics of infectious disease. Widespread and chronic complaints such as heart disease and allergy are not included if they are not thought to be infectious.\n"}
{"id": "38695945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38695945", "title": "List of fashion events in the United States", "text": "List of fashion events in the United States\n\nThis is a list of fashion weeks, events and fashion shows held annually or two times a year in the United States. The list is ordered alphabetically.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47996027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47996027", "title": "List of festivals in South America", "text": "List of festivals in South America\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of festivals in South America, with links to separate lists by country and region where applicable. This list includes festivals of diverse types, including regional festivals, commerce festivals, film festivals, folk festivals, carnivals, pow wows, recurring festivals on holidays, and music festivals. Note that list of music festivals in South America redirects here, with music festivals denoted with (music) for countries where there is not a dedicated music section. The list overlaps with list of film festivals in South America.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25488304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25488304", "title": "List of professional sports leagues in Asia", "text": "List of professional sports leagues in Asia\n\nThis is a list of Professional sports leagues in Asia.\n"}
{"id": "1487939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1487939", "title": "Losar", "text": "Losar\n\nLosar (; \"new year\") is a festival in Tibetan Buddhism. The holiday is celebrated on various dates depending on location (Tibet, Nepal and Bhutan) and tradition. The holiday is a new year's festival, celebrated on the first day of the lunisolar Tibetan calendar, which corresponds to a date in February or March in the Gregorian calendar. In 2018,\nthe new year commenced on the 16th of February and celebrations will run until the 18th of the same month. It also commenced the Year of the Male Earth Dog.\n\nThe variation of the festival in Nepal is called Lhochhar and is observed about eight weeks earlier than the Tibetan Losar.\n\nLosar predates the arrival of Buddhism in Tibet and has its roots in a winter incense-burning custom of the Bon religion. During the reign of the ninth Tibetan king, Pude Gungyal (617-698), it is said that this custom merged with a harvest festival to form the annual Loser festival.\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama (1998: p. 233) frames the importance of consulting the Nechung Oracle for Losar:\nTenzin Wangyal (2002: p.xvii) frames his experience of Tibetan cultural practice of Losar in relation to elemental celebrations and offerings to Nāga (Tibetan: \"Klu\"):\n\nLosar is celebrated for 15 days, with the main celebrations on the first three days. On the first day of Losar, a beverage called \"changkol\" is made from \"chhaang\" (a Tibetan cousin of beer). The second day of Losar is known as King's Losar \"(gyalpo losar)\". Losar is traditionally preceded by the five-day practice of Vajrakilaya. Because the Uyghurs adopted the Chinese calendar, and the Mongols and Tibetans adopted the Uyghur calendar, Losar occurs near or on the same day as the Chinese New Year and the Mongolian New Year, but the traditions of Losar are unique to Tibet, and predate both Indian and Chinese influences. Originally, ancient celebrations of Losar occurred solely on the winter solstice, and was only moved to coincide with the Chinese and Mongolian New Year by a leader of the Gelug school of Buddhism.\n\nPrior to the Chinese occupation of Tibet in 1950, Losar began with a morning ritual ceremony at Namgyal Monastery, led by the Dalai Lama and other high-ranking lamas, with government officials participating, to honor the Dharmapala (dharma-protector) Palden Lhamo. After the Dalai Lama was exiled, many monasteries were dissolved during the Cultural Revolution. Since that time, Tibetan Buddhism practice in Tibet has been somewhat restored, and \"Losar is now celebrated, though without the former ceremonies surrounding the person of the Dalai Lama.\"\n\nIn Tibet, various customs are associated with the holiday:\n\nLosar customs in Bhutan are similar to, but distinct from, customs in neighboring Tibet. Modern celebration of the holiday began in Bhutan in 1637, when Shabdrung Ngawang Namgyal commemorated the completion of the Punakha Dzong with an inaugural ceremony, in which \"Bhutanese came from all over the country to bring offerings of produce from their various regions, a tradition that is still reflected in the wide variety of foods consumed during the ritual Losar meals.\" Traditional foods consumed on the occasion include sugarcane and green bananas, which are considered auspicious. In Bhutan, picnicking, dancing, singing, dart-playing, archery (see archery in Bhutan), and the giving of offerings are all traditions.\n\nThe Tibetan calendar is a lunisolar calendar. Losar is celebrated on the first through third days of the first lunar month.\n\n"}
{"id": "11882157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11882157", "title": "MPack (software)", "text": "MPack (software)\n\nIn computer security, MPack is a PHP-based malware kit produced by Russian crackers. The first version was released in December 2006. Since then a new version is thought to have been released roughly every month. It is thought to have been used to infect up to 160,000 PCs with keylogging software. In August 2007 it was believed to have been used in an attack on the web site of the Bank of India which originated from the Russian Business Network.\n\nUnusual for such kits, MPack is sold as commercial software (costing $500 to $1,000 US), and is provided by its developers with technical support and regular updates of the software vulnerabilities it exploits. Modules are sold by the developers containing new exploits. These cost between $50 and $150 US depending on how severe the exploit is. The developers also charge to make the scripts and executables undetectable by antivirus software.\n\nThe server-side software in the kit is able to customize attacks to a variety of web browsers including Microsoft Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Opera. MPack generally works by being loaded in an IFrame attached to the bottom of a defaced website. When a user visits the page, MPack sends a script that loads in the IFrame and determines if any vulnerabilities in the browser or operating system can be exploited. If it finds any, it will exploit them and store various statistics for future reference.\n\nIncluded with the server is a management console, which allows the attacker deploying the software to view statistics about the computers that have been infected, including what web browsers they were using and what countries their connections originated from.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48987324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48987324", "title": "Marxist explanations of warfare", "text": "Marxist explanations of warfare\n\nWithin Marxist theory, modern warfare is described as existing as result of Capitalism. Marxist theory states that all modern wars are caused by competition for resources and markets between great (imperialist) powers, claiming these wars are a natural result of the free market and a class system.\n\nThe Marxist theory includes the belief that war will only disappear once a Communist world revolution has occurred, which over-throws free markets and class systems.\n\nMarxist philosopher Rosa Luxemburg theorized that imperialism was the result of capitalist countries needing new markets. Expansion of the means of production is only possible if there is a corresponding growth in consumer demand. Since the workers in a capitalist economy would be unable to fill the demand, producers must expand into non-capitalist markets to find consumers for their goods, hence driving imperialism.\n\nLenin expanded upon Marx’s ideas, providing an analysis of what Lenin described as \"monopoly capitalism\". In his theory, Lenin suggested that as capitalism developed as a system, monopoly capitalism was the highest stage of its development. According to Lenin, “imperialism is capitalism when “the formation of international capitalist monopolies will share the world among themselves and the territorial division of the whole world among the greatest capitalist powers is completed”.\n\nIn this way Lenin is suggesting that capitalist powers will cause wars with weaker nations to increase their holding of monopoly capital. As capitalism develops, its natural progression is for core capitalist nations to exploit those on the periphery through imperialist wars in search of new markets and resources. Lenin’s theory provided the origins of \"world systems theory\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4036292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4036292", "title": "Middlewich Folk and Boat Festival", "text": "Middlewich Folk and Boat Festival\n\nThe Middlewich Folk and Boat Festival takes place in June in Middlewich, Cheshire, England. The festival builds on the town's industrial heritage in which canal boats were used to move coal and other raw materials in the town for the production of salt, and then move the salt out of town, either for use directly, or as a raw material in the manufacture of chemicals such as chlorine and soda ash.\n\nThe Middlewich Folk and Boat festival is now firmly established on the folk circuit and it is estimated that 30,000 people visit the town during the festival weekend, along with 400 boats. The festival was originally organised by members of the Middlewich Paddies, and taken over by the local council in 2011 when the original committee were unable to continue with the event. In 2008, the festival was declared among the top three folk festivals in England by Guardian Online.\n\nThe festival has been held since 1990. It was cancelled in 2001 because of Foot and Mouth disease.\n\nSince 1990 there has been an annual folk music and (canal) boat festival, which is now highly regarded on the folk circuit with visitors coming into the town from all over the UK. During this festival artists appear at venues throughout the town, whilst Morris Dancing and Craft Stalls also featured. The boating festival centres on the Trent and Mersey Canal. The main venues where people and boats converge are the Big Lock and Kings Lock, public houses next to locks of the same name on the Trent and Mersey canal.\n\n\n\nIncluding\n\n\nINCLUDING\n\n\nIncluding\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCancelled due to Foot-and-mouth disease\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10845597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10845597", "title": "Mt. Hood Jazz Festival", "text": "Mt. Hood Jazz Festival\n\nThe Mt. Hood Jazz Festival was an annual jazz festival held in Gresham, Oregon, United States. The festival is produced by the Gresham/Mt. Hood Jazz Association (GMHJA) which is a non-profit, public-benefit corporation whose goal is to \"promote the appreciation of jazz as a unique American art form.\" The Mt. Hood Jazz Festival is the signature production of the association, which produces other jazz performances and workshops year round.\n\nThe first festival was held in 1982, and took place on the campus of Mt. Hood Community College for several years, then moving to downtown Gresham for five years (2003 through 2007) before returning to the college. Attendance dropped in the 2000s, from an earlier peak of around 10,000 per day to about 1,200 per day at the 2007 festival.\n\nThe event was held every year through 2009 and featured guests such as Sonny Rollins, Dave Brubeck, Tito Puente, Arturo Sandoval and B.B. King. The annual festival resumed August 3, 2013, after a four-year silence.\n"}
{"id": "58200965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58200965", "title": "Not Tonight (video game)", "text": "Not Tonight (video game)\n\nNot Tonight is an role-playing adventure game by British studio PanicBarn, released for Microsoft Windows in August 2018. Set in an alternate timeline shortly after the United Kingdom's vote to leave the European Union, the player takes the role of a European-born immigrant who must survive under a far-right British government, working as a bouncer across various venues and earning enough keep to avoid deportation. Along the way, the player must make decisions on whether to change the course of events or remain complicit with the new administration.\n\nThe gameplay of \"Not Tonight\" is based on the responsibilities of a bouncer, working for Albion (England) as a citizen of European heritage. As a bouncer, the player must analyse various parts of the guests license checking whether they are under age, provided fraudulent information or have an incorrectly matching photograph. As the game progresses, the player must undertake additional measures as requested by larger venues or by the state. This includes: stopping various nationalities from entering, those who wear certain clothing, individuals who are not on the guest list, people without tickets and various other rules as gameplay becomes more challenging. Additionally, the player can also accept bribes which will gain immediate money at the expense of losing social credit score. Failing to pass a game will lower credit score. A loss of social credit can prevent the player from gaining more jobs and damage their progress. After every mission, the player returns to their flat to interact with characters, pay any outstanding rent and to purchase any items that they may need. While playing the game, the player must make decisions which will affect the story through various characters that can be encountered.\n\nThe game starts with an explosion at a public event with a destroyed London Eye on the Thames. During the rule of the far right Albion First party, which later breaks from a conservative coalition to form its own government via election rigging, the player is working as a bouncer taking tickets at the British Museum of History celebration event until it is blown up. Soon after the explosion, the game goes back an entire year to when the character must earn enough to prevent his deportation and eviction. The player is referred to as Person of European Heritage #112. The player must spend the year leading to the ultimate events using the BouncR app via the government issued phone to gain employment, all while being monitored by presiding officer, Jupp. The player can make various decision to either support the government or the resistance.\n\nNot tonight received mixed to positive reviews. Review aggregator Metacritic has a total review score of 71/100, based on several submissions. Wccftech gave it a positive score of 80. PC Gamer later giving it 71. Screen Rant gave an independent review of 4 out of 5 stars. Trusted Reviews summarized \"\"Not Tonight\" proves that the \"Papers, Please\" formula can work in a less Soviet setting, but the experience is slightly diminished by the transplant. Yet its eccentricities remain endearing, with characters, landscapes and a haunting sound of muffled music that will be rambling around my skull for a little while yet.\"\n\nMany reviewers have mentioned the likeness of the game to that of \"Papers, Please\".\n"}
{"id": "33206021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33206021", "title": "One Tree Hill (song)", "text": "One Tree Hill (song)\n\n\"One Tree Hill\" is a song by Irish rock band U2 and the ninth track on their 1987 album \"The Joshua Tree\". In March 1988, it was released as the fourth single from the album in New Zealand and Australia, while \"In God's Country\" was released as the fourth single in North America. The release charted at number one on the New Zealand Singles Chart.\n\nThe track was written in memory of Greg Carroll, a Māori man the band first met in Auckland during the Unforgettable Fire Tour in 1984. He became very close friends with lead singer Bono and later served as a roadie for the group. Carroll was killed in July 1986 in a motorcycle accident in Dublin. Following the tangi funeral in New Zealand, Bono wrote the lyrics to \"One Tree Hill\" in Carroll's memory. The lyrics reflect Bono's thoughts at the tangi and during his first night in New Zealand when Carroll took him up Auckland's One Tree Hill. They also pay homage to Chilean singer-songwriter and activist Víctor Jara. Musically, the song was developed in a jam session with producer Brian Eno. The vocals were recorded in a single take, as Bono felt incapable of singing them a second time.\n\n\"One Tree Hill\" was received favourably by critics, who variously described it as \"a soft, haunting benediction\", \"a remarkable musical centrepiece\", and a celebration of life. U2 delayed performing the song on the Joshua Tree Tour in 1987 because of Bono's fears over his emotional state. After its live debut on the tour's third leg and an enthusiastic reaction from audiences, the song was played occasionally for the rest of the tour and semi-regularly during the Lovetown Tour of 1989–1990. It has appeared only sporadically since then, and most renditions were performed in New Zealand. Performances in November 2010 on the U2 360° Tour were dedicated to the miners who died in the Pike River Mine disaster. During the Joshua Tree Tour 2017 to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the album, \"One Tree Hill\" was performed at each show.\n\nU2 first visited Australia and New Zealand in 1984 to open The Unforgettable Fire Tour. After a 24-hour flight into Auckland, lead singer Bono was unable to adjust to the time difference between New Zealand and Europe. He left his hotel room during the night and met some people who showed him around the city. Greg Carroll was part of that group: he had met U2's production manager Steve Iredale and been offered a job helping the band for their upcoming concert on account of Greg's experience with local rock bands. They ended up taking Bono up One Tree Hill (Maungakiekie), one of the highest – and more spiritually significant to Māori people – of Auckland's largest volcanoes. Greg worked as a stage hand gently stopping people getting on stage, and was described as \"this very helpful fellah running around the place\". U2's manager Paul McGuinness thought Carroll was so helpful that he should accompany the band for the remainder of the tour. The group helped him obtain a passport, and he subsequently joined them on the road in Australia and the United States as their assistant. He became very close friends with Bono and his wife Ali Hewson, and following the conclusion of the tour, he worked for U2 in Dublin.\n\nOn 3 July 1986, just before the start of the recording sessions for \"The Joshua Tree\", Carroll was killed in a motorcycle accident while on a courier run. A car had pulled in front of him, and unable to stop in the rain, Carroll struck the side of the car and was killed instantly. The event shocked the entire band; drummer Larry Mullen, Jr. said, \"his death really rocked us – it was the first time anyone in our working circle had been killed.\" Guitarist the Edge said, \"Greg was like a member of the family, but the fact that he had come under our wing and had travelled so far from home to be in Dublin to work with us made it all the more difficult to deal with.\" Bassist Adam Clayton described it as \"a very sobering moment\", saying, \"it inspired the awareness that there are more important things than rock 'n' roll. That your family, your friends and indeed the other members of the band – you don't know how much time you've got left with them.\" Bono said, \"it was a devastating blow. He was doing me a favour. He was taking my bike home.\" He later commented, \"it brought gravitas to the recording of \"The Joshua Tree\". We had to fill the hole in our heart with something very, very large indeed, we loved him so much.\" Accompanied by Bono, Ali, Mullen, and other members of the U2 organisation, Carroll's body was flown back to New Zealand and buried in the traditional Māori manner at Kai-iwi Marae near Whanganui, Carroll's hometown. Bono sang \"Let It Be\" and \"Knockin' on Heaven's Door\" for him at the funeral.\n\nShortly after returning to Dublin, Bono wrote lyrics for a song about the funeral that he titled \"One Tree Hill\" after the hill he remembered from his visit to Auckland in 1984. The music was developed early in the recording sessions for \"The Joshua Tree\". The Edge said, \"We were jamming with Brian [Eno]. He was playing keyboards ... we just got this groove going, and this part began to come through. It's almost highlife, although it's not African at all ... the sound was for me at that time a very elaborate one. I would never have dreamt of using a sound like that before then, but it just felt right, and I went with it.\" Bono recorded his vocals in a single take, as he felt that he could not sing the lyrics a second time. The Edge used a Bond Electraglide guitar to play a solo with a \"heavy fuzz\" sound at the end of the song. Three musicians from Toronto—Dick, Paul and Adele Armin—recorded string pieces for the song in Grant Avenue Studio in Hamilton, Ontario. In a six-hour phone call with the Edge, and under the supervision of producer Daniel Lanois, the Armins used \"sophisticated 'electro-acoustic' string instrument[s]\" they developed called Raads to record a piece created for the song. Dick Armin said, \"[U2] were interested in using strings, but not in the conventional style of sweetening. They didn't want a 19th-century group playing behind them.\" Bono found the song so emotional, he was unable to listen to it after it had been recorded.\n\nIn the song, Bono included the lyric: \"Jara sang, his song a weapon in the hands of love / You know his blood still cries from the ground\". This refers to the Chilean political activist and folk singer Víctor Jara, who became a symbol of the resistance against the Augusto Pinochet military dictatorship after he was tortured and killed during the 1973 Chilean coup d'état. Bono learned of Jara after meeting René Castro, a Chilean mural artist, while on Amnesty International's A Conspiracy of Hope tour. Castro had been tortured and held in a concentration camp for two years by the military because his artwork criticised the Pinochet-led regime that had seized power in 1973 during the coup. While purchasing a silkscreen of Martin Luther King, Jr. that Castro had created, Bono noticed a print of Jara. He became more familiar with him after reading \"Una Canción Truncada\" (An Unfinished Song), written by Jara's widow Joan Turner.\n\n\"One Tree Hill\" and \"The Joshua Tree\" are dedicated to Carroll's memory. The track was recorded by Flood and Pat McCarthy, mixed by Dave Meegan, and produced by Lanois and Eno.\n\n\"One Tree Hill\" runs for 5 minutes, 23 seconds. It is played in common time at a tempo of 120 beats per minute. The song begins with a highlife-influenced riff by the Edge on guitar, which repeats in the background throughout the song. Percussion from drummer Larry Mullen, Jr. enters after two seconds. At 0:07, a second guitar enters. At 0:15, Clayton's bass and Mullen's drums enter, and at 0:31, the verse chord progression of C–F–B–F–C is introduced. The first verse begins at 0:47. At 1:32, the song moves to the chorus, switching to a C–B–F–C chord progression. The second verse then begins at 1:49, and after the second chorus, a brief musical interlude begins at 2:36, in which the Edge's guitar is replaced by the Raad strings. The third verse begins at 3:07, and the Edge's guitar resumes at 3:38 in the chorus. A guitar solo begins at 4:16 and is played until the instrumentation comes to a close at 4:36. After two seconds of silence, the Raad strings fade in and Bono proceeds to sing the coda. The final lyric and strings fade out over the final six seconds.\n\nClayton called it part of a trilogy of songs on the album, along with \"Bullet the Blue Sky\" and \"Mothers of the Disappeared\", that decry the involvement of the United States in the Chilean coup. McGuinness stated that the imagery in the song described the sense of tragedy felt by the band over Carroll's death. Colm O'Hare of \"Hot Press\" believed the Edge's guitar riff personified the lyric \"run like a river runs to the sea\". Thom Duffy of the \"Orlando Sentinel\" felt the song reflected the seduction of a lover. Richard Harrington of the \"Washington Post\" acknowledged the tribute to Carroll, adding that it demonstrated U2's belief that music could spur change.\n\nLike many other U2 songs, \"One Tree Hill\" can be interpreted in a religious manner. \"Hot Press\" editor Niall Stokes called it \"a spiritual tour de force\", saying \"it is a hymn of praise and celebration which described the traditional Māori burial of their friend on One Tree Hill and links it poetically with themes of renewal and redemption.\" Beth Maynard, a Church rector from Fairhaven, Massachusetts, felt the song \"vows faith in the face of loss, combining elegiac lines about a friend ... and the martyred Chilean activist and folk singer Victor Jara, with a subtle evocation of end-time redemption and a wrenching wail to God to send the pentecostal Latter Rain.\" Matt Soper, Senior Minister of the West Houston Church of Christ, believed the lyrics were an attempt by Bono to understand God's place in the world. Steve Stockman, a chaplain at Queen's University Belfast, felt that the song alluded to \"transcendent places beyond the space and time of earth\". Music journalist Bill Graham noted \"the lyrics, with their reference to traditional Māori burial ceremonies on One Tree Hill, indicated that the band's faith didn't exclude an empathy with others' beliefs and rituals. Their Christianity wouldn't plaster over the universal archetypes of mourning.\"\n\"One Tree Hill\" was released on \"The Joshua Tree\" on 9 March 1987 as the ninth song on the album. Some CD pressings incorrectly split the tracks, with the song's coda included as part of the track for the following song, \"Exit\". In New Zealand and Australia, \"One Tree Hill\" was released as a 7-inch single in New Zealand and Australia in March 1988. The cover art (photographed by Anton Corbijn), sleeve (designed by Steve Averill), and B-sides (\"Bullet the Blue Sky\" and \"Running to Stand Still\") were identical to those used for U2's 1987 single \"In God's Country\", released only in North America. A cassette single, available only in New Zealand, was also released. The song reached number one on the New Zealand Singles Chart. \"One Tree Hill\" was included as a bonus track on the Japanese version of U2's 1998 compilation album, \"The Best of 1980–1990\". The accompanying video compilation included the song's music video, directed by Phil Joanou, which features a live performance taken from a previously unreleased cut of U2's 1988 rockumentary \"Rattle and Hum\". Additional live performances were released on the digital album \"Live from the Point Depot\" (2004) and the U2.com member-exclusive album \"U22\" (2012). Select editions of the 30th anniversary release of \"The Joshua Tree\" in 2017 featured a remix of \"One Tree Hill\" by St Francis Hotel and a new mix of the song's reprise by Brian Eno.\n\n\"One Tree Hill\" was received favourably by critics. \"Hot Press\" editor Niall Stokes described it as one of U2's best tracks, calling it a \"fitting tribute\" to Carroll. The \"Toronto Star\" felt it was one of the best songs on the album. Steve Morse of \"The Boston Globe\" compared Bono's vocals at the song's conclusion to the passion of American soul singer Otis Redding, also noting that the coda was reminiscent of the hymn \"Amazing Grace\". Steve Pond of \"Rolling Stone\" called it \"a soft, haunting benediction\". Bill Graham of \"Hot Press\" said the song was \"hopeful, not grim\", describing the lyric \"We run like a river to the sea\" as \"[musician Mike Scott's] metaphor recast in terms of eternal life and the Maori's own belief.\" He described the Edge's playing as \"a loose-limbed guitar melody with both an African and a Hawaiian tinge\", concluding by saying \"despite its moving vocal coda, 'One Tree Hill' isn't sombre. It celebrates the life of the spirit not its extinction.\"\n\nWriting for \"The New York Times\", John Rockwell felt that it was an example of U2 stretching their range, saying \"the inclusion of musical idioms [is] never so overtly explored before on a U2 record, especially the gospel chorus of 'One Tree Hill'\". Colin Hogg of \"The New Zealand Herald\" called it \"a remarkable musical centrepiece\", believing it to be the best song on the album. Colm O'Hare of \"Hot Press\" said it was \"arguably the most poignant, emotionally-charged song U2 have ever recorded.\" He added that it was the \"least instrumentally adorned song on the album, resplendent in a feeling of space and openness.\" McGuinness called it one of his favourite U2 songs.\n\nThe American television drama \"One Tree Hill\" was named for the song after series creator Mark Schwahn was listening to \"The Joshua Tree\" when writing the idea for the show. \"One Tree Hill\" was also the name of the series finale, which featured the song in the episode's final scene.\n\n\"One Tree Hill\" made its live debut on 10 September 1987 in Uniondale, New York, the opening night of the third leg of the Joshua Tree Tour, where it opened the encore. The song had been left out of the set up to this point because Bono feared he would be unable to overcome his emotions in the live setting. Despite his fears, the song received an enthusiastic reaction from the audience. It was performed a further six times and then dropped from the show for a period of two months. It was revived in the main set on 17 November 1987 in Los Angeles, California, and played a further nine times on the tour. \"One Tree Hill\" was played occasionally on the Lovetown Tour, appearing at 19 of 47 concerts. The penultimate performance, on 31 December 1989, was broadcast live on radio to 21 countries throughout Europe as a New Year's Eve present from the band.\n\n\"One Tree Hill\" was absent during the majority of the Zoo TV Tour, only appearing as an extended snippet at the end of \"One\" at both concerts in New Zealand in 1993. It did not appear again until 24 November 2006 in Auckland, New Zealand, on the final leg of the Vertigo Tour. It was considered to close the concert, but tour designer Willie Williams voiced concern as it had not been performed in full since 1990. The song was performed before \"Sometimes You Can't Make It on Your Own\" in the main set instead. U2 performed it an additional three times on the tour. \"One Tree Hill\" was absent for the majority of the U2 360° Tour but was revived in November 2010 for two concerts in New Zealand, where it was dedicated to the miners who died in the Pike River Mine disaster; their names were displayed on the video screen during the song. Dedicating the song, Bono said, \"we wrote it for Greg Carroll, whose family are with us tonight. But tonight it belongs to the miners of the West Coast Pike River.\" U2 played \"One Tree Hill\" on 25 March 2011, in Santiago, Chile, in a duet with Francisca Valenzuela, and they dedicated it to Victor Jara. It was also played in an unplanned addition to the encore at a show in Chicago on 5 July 2011 to mark the 25th anniversary of the death of Greg Carroll \n\nIn 2009, when asked about the likelihood of U2 performing the song, the Edge said, \"it's one we kind of keep for special occasions, like playing New Zealand.\" Bono added, \"it's a very special song that holds inside of it a lot of strong feelings, and I don't know if we're afraid of it or something, but we should be playing it more.\" McGuinness said that U2 found it difficult to play live. \n\n\"One Tree Hill\" returned to live performances during the Joshua Tree Tour 2017, which featured 51 concerts from May through October 2017, each of which featured a full performance of the entire \"Joshua Tree\" album in running order. Each song from the album was accompanied by a film shown on the set's LED display that served as a backdrop to the band's performance. The film played during \"One Tree Hill\" featured an image large red moon along that faded into footage of Native American people. It was directed by Anton Corbijn and filmed in Lancaster, California over a 14-hour film shoot. Bono dedicated performances of the song to singer Chris Cornell (who died in May 2017), to singer Chester Bennington (who died in July 2017), to the victims of the Manchester Arena bombing, and to the victims of the Orlando nightclub shooting.\n\nU2\n\nAdditional performers\n\nTechnical\n\nFootnotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "3994720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3994720", "title": "Opera Azuriales", "text": "Opera Azuriales\n\nLes Azuriales Opera is an Anglo-French organisation that focuses on finding outstanding young artists and making a significant difference to their early operatic careers. Its activities take place in Cap Ferrat, Villefranche-sur-Mer and London.\n\nLes Azuriales Young Artist Programme, lasting approximately two weeks, takes place each year in August at the Villa Ephrussi de Rothschild on Cap Ferrat, and the in Villefranche-sur-Mer, both on the Côte d'Azur near Nice in France. The programme consists of a singing competition (with prizes of €10,000), public and private masterclasses and an opera performance put together from scratch in a week.\n\nEach year more than 100 singers from around the world are auditioned and 8 to 10 are chosen to become Les Azuriales Young Artists. Les Azuriales has strong links with South Korea, South Africa, Armenia and Russia.\n\nThe distinguished givers of its public master classes and private workshops have included: Lucy Arner, Sally Burgess, Peter Coleman-Wright, Michèle Crider, Sarah-Jane Davies, Peter Kazaras, Ljuba Kazarnovskaya, Elaine Kidd, Martin Lloyd-Evans, Emanuele Moris, Dennis O'Neill, Pedro Ribeiro, Brindley Sherratt and Alessandro Talevi.\n\nA number of its young artists have been winners or finalists of major competitions, including the Montserrat Caballé Prize, the Kathleen Ferrier Award, the Stella Maris awards and Cardiff Singer of the World.\n\nSeven of its alumni have joined London's Royal Opera’s Jette Parker Young Artists programme. Others have been to the National Opera Studio (UK), Vienna State Opera and other prestigious programmes.\n\nLes Azuriales Opera is unusual as a young artist programme in that it provides on going moral and financial support to its young artists.\n\nLes Azuriales Opera is administered almost entirely by volunteers (as opposed to the musical organisation, which is entirely professional). It is privately funded by private and corporate donors.\n\nThe structure consists of\n\nThe musical organisation is under the guidance of Bryan Evans, the music director of Diva Opera, who is also Les Azuriales' music director. Sarah-Jane Davies, head of casting at Scottish Opera, plays a key role as artistic consultant and Alessandro Talevi is Les Azuriales' resident guest director.\n\nIn 1996 Sarah Holford, an English commercial barrister, was introduced to Bryan Evans who had recently founded a chamber opera company in England, Diva Opera. Evans had been presenting chamber opera in country houses and similar venues for many years. With support from Diva Opera in 1997 Sarah Holford founded Les Azuriales Opera Festival principally centred on the Villa Ephrussi de Rothschild on Cap Ferrat: she had been visiting the area almost every year since she was a child. Diva Opera became the long term opera partner of the festival and itself continues to perform opera in many parts of Europe. Another major contributor was Dominique Lelandais, a resident of St Jean, whose drive and local knowledge were key factors in bringing the festival to life.\n\nIn 2003 Les Azuriales started its Young Artist Programme as part of its festival.\n\nIn 2015 Les Azuriales ceased to be present an opera festival and changed to its present format with its summer season concentrating solely on its Young Artist Programme,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18627071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18627071", "title": "Pony Penning", "text": "Pony Penning\n\nPony Penning is an annual event held in Chincoteague, Virginia on the last consecutive Wednesday and Thursday in July. The Chincoteague Volunteer Fire Department conducts the event and it consists of a Wild Pony Swim on Wednesday and a Pony Auction on Thursday. For the Wild Pony Swim, Salt Water Cowboys round up feral Chincoteague Ponies from Assateague Island and drive them across the Assateague Channel to Veteran’s Memorial Park on Chincoteague Island. The ponies swim across the channel during slack tide, when the water has minimal tidal movement. Once on Chincoteague Island, the salt water cowboys herd the ponies to pens on the Chincoteague Carnival Grounds where some of the foals are auctioned off on Thursday.\n\nThis traditional event in its current form has taken place since 1925 to raise money for the Chincoteague Volunteer Fire Department, but its roots date back to the 17th century. The event was popularized by the book \"Misty of Chincoteague\" by Marguerite Henry, published in 1947. It now usually draws from 40,000 to 50,000 spectators.\n\n"}
{"id": "43086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43086", "title": "Project Mogul", "text": "Project Mogul\n\nProject Mogul (sometimes referred to as Operation Mogul) was a top secret project by the US Army Air Forces involving microphones flown on high-altitude balloons, whose primary purpose was long-distance detection of sound waves generated by Soviet atomic bomb tests. The project was carried out from 1947 until early 1949. It was a classified portion of an unclassified project by New York University (NYU) atmospheric researchers. The project was moderately successful, but was very expensive and was superseded by a network of seismic detectors and air sampling for fallout, which were cheaper, more reliable, and easier to deploy and operate.\n\nProject Mogul was conceived by Maurice Ewing who had earlier researched the deep sound channel in the oceans and theorized that a similar sound channel existed in the upper atmosphere: a certain height where the air pressure and temperature result in minimal speed of sound, so that sound waves would propagate and stay in that channel due to refraction. The project involved arrays of balloons carrying disc microphones and radio transmitters to relay the signals to the ground. It was supervised by James Peoples, who was assisted by Albert P. Crary.\n\nOne of the requirements of the balloons was that they maintain a relatively constant altitude over a prolonged period of time. Thus instrumentation had to be developed to maintain such constant altitudes, such as pressure sensors controlling the release of ballast.\n\nThe early Mogul balloons consisted of large clusters of rubber meteorological balloons, however, these were quickly replaced by enormous balloons made of polyethylene plastic. These were more durable, leaked less helium, and also were better at maintaining a constant altitude than the early rubber balloons. Constant-altitude-control and polyethylene balloons were the two major innovations of Project Mogul. \n\nProject Mogul was the forerunner of the Skyhook balloon program, which started in the late 1940s, as well as two other espionage programs involving overflights and photographic surveillance of the Soviet Union in the mid-1950s, Project Moby Dick and Project Genetrix. The spy balloon overflights raised storms of protest from the Soviets. The constant-altitude balloons also were used for scientific purposes such as cosmic ray experiments.\n\nIn the summer of 1947 a Project Mogul balloon, probably NYU Flight 4 launched June 4, 1947, crashed in the desert near Roswell, New Mexico. The subsequent military cover-up of the true nature of the balloon and burgeoning conspiracy theories from UFO enthusiasts led to a celebrated \"UFO\" incident.\n\nUnlike a weather balloon, the Project Mogul paraphernalia was massive and contained unusual types of materials, according to research conducted by \"The New York Times\": \"...squadrons of big balloons ... It was like having an elephant in your backyard and hoping that no one would notice it. ... To the untrained eye, the reflectors looked extremely odd, a geometrical hash of lightweight sticks and sharp angles made of metal foil. .. photographs of it, taken in 1947 and published in newspapers, show bits and pieces of what are obviously collapsed balloons and radar reflectors.\"\n\nEchoes of Mogul's experimental infrasound detection of nuclear tests exist today in ground-based detectors, part of so-called Geophysical MASINT (Measurement And Signal INTelligence). In 2013, this world-wide network of sound detectors picked up the large explosion of the Chelyabinsk meteor in Russia. The strength of the sound waves was used to estimate the size of the explosion.\n\n"}
{"id": "22196832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22196832", "title": "Public holidays in Trinidad and Tobago", "text": "Public holidays in Trinidad and Tobago\n\nThe Government of Trinidad and Tobago officially recognizes a number of holidays and celebrations from most represented groups. The following holidays are those that are officially observed in Trinidad and Tobago:\n\nThe table shows a list of Trinidad and Tobago Carnival dates from 2009 to 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "737712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=737712", "title": "Second Class Male/Time to Go", "text": "Second Class Male/Time to Go\n\n\"Second Class Male\" and \"Time to Go\" were a series of 12 spoof newspaper columns written by Chris Morris and Robert Katz under the pseudonym Richard Geefe in \"The Observer\" in 1999.\n\n\"Second Class Male\" was a feature column written by a handsome though ineffectual sort who has a lack of luck in life. After the sixth article, the writer of the column decides that on a certain date he will commit suicide, and the rest of his columns, retitled \"Time To Go\", will be written about the state of mind of someone knowing they are going to die on a particular date. The last article, consisting of accounts by Geefe's dinner party guests on the night of his death, was published after Morris's co-authorship had been revealed.\n\nThe articles were presented as fact and not as a Chris Morris production, although the premise was very similar to a monologue from his \"Blue Jam\" radio programme, titled \"Suicide Journalist\" on the \"Blue Jam\" compilation CD. The last pseudonymous column included a man speared by frozen urine and a suicide by repeated jumps from a first floor window, both situations from earlier work by Morris.\n\nThe series attacked what some saw as the self-absorption of columnists writing about personal and domestic matters, and the quasi-fashion for columns about dying typified by those written by John Diamond and Ruth Picardie. \n\nAccording to the IMDb a 7-minute short film (titled \"Second Class Male\") based on the second column (in which Geefe gets locked out of his flat) was made in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "29214165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29214165", "title": "Security Council of the Soviet Union", "text": "Security Council of the Soviet Union\n\nThe Security Council of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) () was formed in 1990. The head of this organ was the President of the Soviet Union; he had the power to elect all members of the council. Article 127.3 of the USSR Constitution stipulated that the president of the USSR led the Security Council, which would develop recommendations to implement the all-union policy on national defense, state security, economic and environmental security, coping with natural disasters and other emergencies, to ensure stability and legal order in Soviet society.\n"}
{"id": "34953952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34953952", "title": "The Concert in Central Park", "text": "The Concert in Central Park\n\nThe Concert in Central Park, released in February 1982 on Warner Bros. Records, is the first live album by American folk rock duo Simon & Garfunkel. It was recorded in September 1981 at a free benefit concert in Central Park, New York City, where the pair performed in front of more than 500,000 people. Proceeds went toward the redevelopment and maintenance of the park, which had deteriorated due to lack of municipal funding. The concert and album marked the start of a short-lived reunion for Paul Simon and Art Garfunkel.\nThe concept of a benefit concert in Central Park had been proposed by Parks Commissioner Gordon Davis and promoter Ron Delsener. Television channel HBO agreed to carry the concert, and worked with Delsener to decide on Simon and Garfunkel as the appropriate act for this event. Besides hit songs from their years as a duo, their set-list included material from their solo careers, and covers. The show consisted of 21 songs, though two were not used in the live album. Among the songs performed were the classics \"The Sound of Silence\", \"Mrs. Robinson\", and \"The Boxer\"; the event concluded with a reprise of Simon's song, \"Late in the Evening\". Ongoing personal tensions between the duo led them to decide against a permanent reunion, despite the success of the concert and a subsequent world tour.\n\nThe album and a film were released the year after the concert. Simon and Garfunkel's performance was praised by music critics and the album was commercially successful; it peaked at number six on the \"Billboard\" 200 album charts and was certified double platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). The video recordings were initially broadcast on HBO, and were subsequently made available on Laserdisc, CED, VHS and DVD.\n\nNew York City's Central Park, an oasis that functions as the city's \"green lung\", was in a state of deterioration in the mid-1970s. Though Central Park had been designated a National Historic Landmark in 1962, at the start of the 1980s, the city lacked the financial resources to spend an estimated US$3,000,000 to restore or even to maintain the park. The nonprofit Central Park Conservancy was founded in 1980, and began a successful campaign to raise renovation funds.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Parks Commissioner Gordon Davis, responsible for New York City's green areas, and Ron Delsener, one of the city's most influential concert promoters, developed the idea of helping Central Park financially with a free open-air concert, under the legal guidance of Bob Donnelly. The city would use profits from merchandising, television, and video rights to renovate the park. Earlier park performances by Elton John and James Taylor showed that this concept could be a success. Davis authorized the project, and Delsener entered discussions with cable TV channel HBO to decide who would perform.\n\nThey decided on Simon & Garfunkel, a group that had formed in New York City in the 1960s, and had been one of the most successful folk rock groups through the late 60s/early 70s. Simon & Garfunkel had broken up at the height of their popularity and shortly after the release of their fifth studio album, \"Bridge Over Troubled Water\", which is deemed to be their artistic peak and which topped the 1970 \"Billboard\" charts for ten weeks. They had grown apart artistically and did not get along well with each other. In the following eleven years, both continued musical careers as solo artists, and worked together only sporadically on single projects. Garfunkel made brief guest appearances at Simon's concerts, which were always successful.\n\nDelsener presented the plan to Paul Simon in the summer of 1981. Simon was enthusiastic about the idea, but questioned whether it could be financially successful, especially given the poor audience attendance of his last project, the autobiographical movie \"One-Trick Pony\". Simon's confidence had declined and he had sought treatment for depression. He questioned whether he and Art Garfunkel could work together, but contacted Garfunkel, who was vacationing in Switzerland. Garfunkel was excited about the idea, and immediately returned to the US.\n\nFrom the promoter's viewpoint, Simon and Garfunkel were ideal choices. Not only were they likely to draw a large crowd to the concert, they also had roots in the city both had grown up and gone to school in Forest Hills, Queens. Music critic Stephen Holden pointed out that, unlike artists who had left in pursuit of lifestyles offered by other locales, the two had always been a part of New York City. Both gained inspiration from the cityscape and the cultural variety of New York, and spoke of these influences in their songs.\n\nPlanning and rehearsals for the concert took about three weeks in a Manhattan theater. The rehearsals were characterized by past tensions that resurfaced between the performers under the intense time pressure. Paul Simon later said: \"Well, the rehearsals were just miserable. Artie and I fought all the time.\" An early concept was for each singer to give a solo performance, with Simon allotted the greater amount of time, and to conclude with the duo performing their joint works. This idea was rejected because, according to Garfunkel, \"It didn't seem right to either of us that Paul should be the opening act for Simon & Garfunkel, and for him to follow Simon & Garfunkel didn't make show-business sense\". The two decided to perform most of the show together, with room for each to showcase some solo material. Simon, who had resumed songwriting after a long hiatus, interrupted a series of studio recording sessions for the concert preparations. He used the live show as an opportunity to test one of his new songs in front of an audience. Garfunkel also planned to present a new song, \"A Heart in New York\", from his soon-to-be released album \"Scissors Cut\".\nThe two differed on the presentation of the concert. Garfunkel wanted to recreate the duo's mid-1960s live performances, using only their voices backed by Simon's acoustic guitar. Simon felt that this was impossible, as an injury had rendered him incapable of playing guitar for the full length of a concert, and his newer material was typically arranged for larger ensembles that often included horns and amplified instruments such as electric piano and electric guitar. Garfunkel initially agreed to hire a second guitarist, but later rejected the idea. A group of eleven musicians was assembled for the concert, most of whom were experienced studio musicians and had played on albums involving Simon or Garfunkel and these included Billy Joel's guitarist David Brown (guitar), Muscle Shoals guitarist Pete Carr (guitar), Anthony Jackson (bass guitar), Rob Mounsey (synthesizer), John Eckert (trumpet), John Gatchell (trumpet), Dave Tofani (saxophone), Gerry Niewood (saxophone), Steve Gadd and Grady Tate (drums, percussion), and Richard Tee (piano).\n\nThe musical arrangements for the concert were written by Paul Simon and David Matthews. Some songs differed significantly from their original versions; for example, \"Me and Julio Down by the Schoolyard\" featured more prominent Latin elements and included a salsa break, while the folk rock \"Kodachrome\" was set as a harder rock song and played together with the Chuck Berry classic \"Maybellene\" as a medley. The military rhythm of \"50 Ways to Leave Your Lover\" was replaced with a Latin arrangement that included brass.\n\nGarfunkel had difficulties in the rehearsals. Both men easily recalled their songs from the 1960s, but Garfunkel had to learn the harmonies and arrangements for Simon's solo songs, as modified for the reunion concert. He was also uncomfortable that Simon had rewritten some of the lyrics for their old songs. Despite the need to adapt to Simon and his style, Garfunkel enjoyed some of the songs, and was glad to perform a duet version of Simon's \"American Tune\".\n\nNews reports and the Michael Doret-designed posters of the Central Park show named the musicians individually and did not bill them as \"Simon & Garfunkel\"; that the two singers would perform together on stage in a reunion was not officially announced until only a week before the concert when it was published in New York newspapers. The two stated in interviews that further collaboration was not planned.\n\nThe concert took place on Saturday, September 19, 1981, on the Great Lawn, the central open space of Central Park. The first spectators, many carrying chairs or picnic blankets, arrived at daybreak to secure a good spot. The Parks Department originally expected about 300,000 attendees. Although rain fell throughout the day and continued until the start of the concert, an estimated 500,000 audience members made this the seventh-largest concert attendance in the United States in history.\n\nThe stage backdrop depicted an urban rooftop with water tank and air outlet, symbolic of New York's skyline. At twilight, the backing band went onstage, followed by New York's mayor, Ed Koch, who announced, \"Ladies and gentlemen, Simon and Garfunkel!\" The duo entered through a side stage door, took center stage amid audience applause, looked at each other and shook hands, and began the concert with their 1968 hit \"Mrs. Robinson\".\n\nAfter the second song, \"Homeward Bound\", Simon delivered a short speech which began, \"Well, it's great to do a neighborhood concert.\" He then thanked the police, the fire department, the park administration and finally Ed Koch. The audience booed at the mention of Koch but applauded as Simon continued.\n\nSimon & Garfunkel played twenty-one songs in total: ten by the duo, eight by Simon, one by Garfunkel, a cover of The Everly Brothers' \"Wake Up Little Susie\", and the medley version of \"Maybellene\". Each performer sang three songs alone, including one new song apiece. Garfunkel sang the Simon & Garfunkel classic \"Bridge Over Troubled Water\" and \"April Come She Will\", and \"A Heart in New York\", a song written by Gallagher and Lyle that appeared on his album \"Scissors Cut\", which had been released the previous month. Simon's solo performances were the title song of his 1975 album \"Still Crazy After All These Years\", the number-one single \"50 Ways to Leave Your Lover\", and the unreleased \"The Late Great Johnny Ace\", which would appear on his 1983 album \"Hearts and Bones\".\n\n\"The Late Great Johnny Ace\" was interrupted when an audience member ran to the stage and shouted at Simon: \"I need to talk to you!\" The man was carried away by security, and Simon finished the song. The incident provoked associations to the song's lyrics, in which Simon speaks as a first-person narrator concerning the deaths of Johnny Ace, John F. Kennedy and John Lennon. Lennon's murder by an obsessed fan had taken place less than a year previously, not far from the concert site. Despite this association, Simon said that he was not afraid of any on-stage incidents. In May 1982 as a guest on \"Late Night with David Letterman\", he explained that while it is not unusual for fans, for example, to jump onto the stage with flowers, this action was new to him, but also felt that the man simply appeared intoxicated. His greater concern was that the song's premiere was ruined.\n\nLyrics referring to the New York area produced audience applause, such as Garfunkel's ode to his home city, \"A Heart in New York\", which describes from a New Yorker's point of view the first glimpse of the city when returning there by air:\n\nNew York, lookin' down on Central Park, where they say you should not wander after dark\n\nApplause broke out during \"The Sound of Silence\", when the narrative voice refers to a large crowd of people in the dark:\n\nAnd in the naked light I saw ten thousand people maybe more\n\nAfter the 17th song, \"The Boxer\", which contained an additional stanza not included in the album version, Simon & Garfunkel thanked the audience and left the stage, but returned to deliver an encore of three songs – \"Old Friends / Bookends Theme\", \"The 59th Street Bridge Song (Feelin' Groovy)\" and \"The Sound of Silence\". Simon then said that their planned use of pyrotechnics had been disallowed, and told the crowd, \"Let's have our own fireworks!\" Many spectators sparked lighters. The duo then introduced the members of the backing band and gave a final encore, a reprise of \"Late in the Evening\".\n\n\nEncore\nEncore\nA recording of the concert was released five months later, on February 16, 1982. The audio tracks were processed in postproduction, but \"Rolling Stone\" magazine wrote that they were not completely polished, and preserved the roar and the fuzziness of live rock music heard through a loudspeaker. Two songs were not included on the album: the interrupted \"Late Great Johnny Ace\", and the encore reprise of \"Late in the Evening\". The album was an international success. It peaked at number six on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart, and was certified 2×Multi-Platinum with sales of over 2 million copies in USA. The album sold more than 1,270,000 copies in France, where it was certified Diamond. It was also successful in seven other countries, including France and New Zealand. The album was released as a double LP and as a single Compact Cassette. In 1988 it was issued as a single CD. Various reissues in different formats have occurred, including, alongside the DVD, a 2-CD-release also containing the two missing songs from the original album.\nThe Concert was recorded by Roy Halee on the Record Plant NY Black Truck with David Hewitt Director, assisted by Phil Gitomer, Steve Barash and John Mathias.\n\nThe song \"The Late Great Johnny Ace\" and the reprise of \"Late in the Evening\" were not included in the original release of the album but are on the DVD.\n\nThe concert was filmed for television broadcast and the home video market. It was produced by James Signorelli, and directed by Michael Lindsay-Hogg, a specialist in music documentaries who had worked on The Beatles' film \"Let It Be\", and executive produced by Lorne Michaels, who had recently departed the NBC-TV comedy/variety series \"Saturday Night Live\". Simon himself financed the US$750,000 cost of the staging and the video recording. It is unknown how much HBO paid for the television and video rights of the recording; US$1 million according to some sources, over US$3 million according to others. The film includes the two songs that had not appeared on the album, and at 87-minutes, runs 12 minutes longer.\n\nHBO televised the film, \"Simon and Garfunkel: The Concert in Central Park\", on February 21, 1982, five days after the album was released. The film was later released for sale in VHS, CED Videodisc, Laserdisc, and DVD formats. It sold more than 50,000 copies in the US, where it earned Gold certification for a music longform video. It was broadcast on PBS on August 22, 1988, and again on August 8, 2015.\n\nThe concert and recordings were positively received by music critics. Stephen Holden praised the performance in \"The New York Times\" the day after the concert; he subsequently praised the live album in \"Rolling Stone\" magazine. He wrote that Simon and Garfunkel were successful in reviving their sound, that the backing band was \"one of the finest groups of musicians ever to play together at a New York rock concert\", and the rearrangements of Simon's solo material were improvements over the originals. Despite the risks in performing so many acoustic ballads in an open-air concert on a cool night, the songs \"were beautifully articulated, in near-perfect harmony.\"\n\nAn October 1981 review in \"Rolling Stone\" called the concert \"one of the finest performances of [1981]\", one that \"vividly recaptured another time, an era when well-crafted, melodic pop bore meanings that stretched beyond the musical sphere and into the realms of culture and politics.\" This reviewer noted that Garfunkel's voice was noticeably restrained in high passages, though still harmonious, and that the evening's only weak spot was the \"Kodachrome\"/\"Maybellene\" medley, because neither singer could raise the right level of emotion for the rock songs. A \"Billboard\" reviewer wrote in March 1982, \"This 19 song, two record set gloriously recaptures the past with sterling renditions of most of the duo's classics as well as a few of Simon's solo compositions filled out by Garfunkel's harmony.\" However, Robert Christgau of \"The Village Voice\" dismissed the album as \"a corporate boondoggle—a classy way for Warner Bros. artist Simon to rerecord, rerelease, and resell the catalogue CBS is sitting on.\" He felt Simon had been better off without Garfunkel since 1971 and quipped, \"live doubles are live doubles, nostalgia is nostalgia, wimps are wimps, and who needs any of 'em?\"\n\nThe duo were disappointed with their performance, particularly Garfunkel, who felt that he sang poorly. Simon said that he did not immediately realize the magnitude of the event: \"I didn't get what had happened – how big it was – until I went home, turned on the television and saw it on all the news ... and later that night on the front pages of all the newspapers. Then I got it.\"\n\nIn May 1982, Simon & Garfunkel went on a world tour with stops in Japan, Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Ireland, France, Great Britain, New Zealand, the US and Canada. The European leg of their tour began on May 28, 1982, at the Stadion am Bieberer Berg in Offenbach am Main. This was their first performance in Germany, and had an attendance of around 40,000 spectators.\n\nWhen they were not on the road, the duo went into the studio to work on what was to be a reunion Simon & Garfunkel album, tentatively entitled \"Think Too Much\", with Garfunkel adding harmony vocals to a bunch of new songs for which Simon had already laid down some backing tracks. They set a release date of spring 1983 to coincide with their planned North American tour, but after increasingly acrimonious delays and disagreements, Simon told Warner Brothers he could no longer work with Garfunkel and that the project as an S&G album was cancelled. Thus Garfunkel dropped out of the project, which then became Simon's November 1983 solo album \"Hearts and Bones\".\n\nSeveral years would pass before Simon & Garfunkel worked together again. Their next joint public appearance was in 1990, when they performed for their induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. When Simon gave another free concert in Central Park on August 15, 1991, he rejected Garfunkel's offer to participate. However, they agreed to perform together in 1993 for 21 sold out concerts in New York, with half of the show being Paul Simon solo with a band and the other half Simon and Garfunkel. Later the same year, they did some charity concerts, including the Bridge School Benefit concerts and a benefit for United Way of Canada Children's Charities at SkyDome in Toronto. Their next performance as a duo was in December 2003, at New York's Madison Square Garden during the Old Friends Tour. This concert was recorded, and released in December 2004 as the album \"\".\n\nSimon & Garfunkel's \"Concert in Central Park\" raised around $51,000 for Central Park. Benefit concerts by other musicians followed, and helped to raise awareness of the park's state. With donations from the general public and with the help of wealthy benefactors, the park was restored during the 1980s and gained recognition as a major tourist attraction. As of 2011, donations still make up the majority of its budget. Today concerts and other benefits are regularly held on the Great Lawn.\n\n\n\n\nAbout the live album\n\nAbout the film editing\n"}
{"id": "7112783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7112783", "title": "Tim Field", "text": "Tim Field\n\nTim Field (24 April 1952 in Eastbourne - 15 January 2006) was a prominent British anti-bullying activist with his main focus relating to workplace bullying. He was the author of two books, and he coined the term \"bullycide\".\n\nTim Field was born on 24 April 1952 in Eastbourne, England. From 1971 to 1975 he studied computing science in Stafford at the North Staffordshire Polytechnic, now Staffordshire University, and was awarded a First Class Honours degree.\n\nField worked in the computer industry for nineteen years until he had to stop due to the effects of experiencing severe workplace bullying.\n\nIn 1996, Field founded the UK National Workplace Bullying Advice Line and the \"Success Unlimited\" website. He wrote and self-published a book \"Bully In Sight\" based on his own experiences, and impressions of calls to the advice line in 1996. First published with the long title \"Bully In Sight - How to predict, resist, challenge and combat workplace bullying\" the first ten chapters of the book seek to define bullying and bullies. the second part offers suggestions on how to challenge and combat workplace bullying.\n\nAs a result of the expense and effort of defending himself against a libel action, in early 2004, Field closed down the National Workplace Bullying Advice Line and \"Bullying Times\".\n\nIn July 1978 Field married Susan Mitchener, who he had met as a fellow-student at N. Staffs. Polytechnic. They had two children.\n\nField died from cancer on 15 January 2006 aged 53.\n\nTim Field set up www.bullyonline.org to inform people about workplace bullying. In 2015 the Tim Field Foundation was established as a UK registered charity to maintain this website and further Tim Field's cause against bullying.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "796030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=796030", "title": "Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany", "text": "Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany\n\nThe Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany (), or the Two Plus Four Agreement (; short: German Treaty), was negotiated in 1990 between the Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic (the eponymous \"Two\"), and the Four Powers which occupied Germany at the end of World War II in Europe: France, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and the United States. In the treaty the Four Powers renounced all rights they held in Germany, allowing a united Germany to become fully sovereign the following year.\n\nOn 2 August 1945, the Potsdam Agreement, promulgated at the end of the Potsdam Conference, among other things agreed on the initial terms under which the Allies of World War II would govern Germany. A provisional German–Polish border known as the Oder–Neisse line awarded, in theory within the context of that \"provisional border\", most of Germany's eastern provinces to Poland and the Soviet Union. Those agreements reached were provisional and the agreement stipulated that the situation would be finalised by \"a peace settlement for Germany to be accepted by the Government of Germany when a government adequate for the purpose is established\" (Potsdam Agreement 1.3.1). Parts of those above-mentioned agreements were burdened with controversy from several sources e.g., Churchill's comment about \"stuffing the Polish goose too full\" (of German lands). The overall \"German Question\" became one of the salient and crucial issues of the long-running Cold War, and until it ended in the late 1980s, little progress had been made in the establishment of a single government of Germany adequate for the purpose of agreeing to a final settlement. This meant that in some respects (largely, but not only, technical), Germany did not have full national sovereignty.\n\nSeveral developments in 1989 and 1990, collectively termed Die Wende and the Peaceful Revolution, led to the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the SED in the German Democratic Republic (GDR or East Germany). In the 18 March 1990 national election in the GDR an electoral alliance of parties that favored German reunification via article 23 of the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany won a plurality. To achieve unity and full sovereignty, both German states were willing to accept the terms of the Potsdam Agreement that affected Germany. It was then possible for all international parties to negotiate a final settlement.\n\nThe Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany was signed in Moscow, Soviet Union, on 12 September 1990, and paved the way for German reunification on 3 October 1990. Under the terms of the treaty, the Four Powers renounced all rights they formerly held in Germany, including those regarding the city of Berlin. Upon deposit of the last instrument of ratification, united Germany became fully sovereign on 15 March 1991.\n\nThe treaty allows Germany to make and belong to alliances, without any foreign influence in its politics. All Soviet forces were to leave Germany by the end of 1994. Before the Soviets withdrew, Germany would only deploy territorial defense units not integrated into the alliance structures. German forces in the rest of Germany were assigned to areas where Soviet troops were stationed. After the Soviets withdrew, the Germans could freely deploy troops in those areas, with the exception of nuclear weapons. For the duration of the Soviet presence, Allied troops would remain stationed in Berlin upon Germany's request.\n\nGermany undertook to reduce its armed forces to no more than 370,000 personnel, no more than 345,000 of whom were to be in the Army and the Air Force. These limits would commence at the time that the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe would enter into force, and the treaty also took note that it was expected that the other participants in the negotiations would \"render their contribution to enhancing security and stability in Europe, including measures to limit personnel strengths\". Germany also reaffirmed its renunciation of the manufacture, possession of, and control over nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons, and in particular, that the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty would continue to apply in full to the unified Germany (the Federal Republic of Germany). No foreign armed forces, nuclear weapons, or the carriers for nuclear weapons would be stationed or deployed in six states (the area of Berlin and the former East Germany), making them a permanent Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone. The German Army could deploy conventional weapons systems with nonconventional capabilities, provided that they were equipped and designed for a purely conventional role. Germany also agreed to use military force only in accordance with the United Nations Charter.\n\nAnother of the treaty's important provisions was Germany's confirmation of the by now internationally recognised border with Poland, and other territorial changes in Germany that had taken place since 1945, preventing any future claims to lost territory east of the Oder-Neisse line (see also Former eastern territories of Germany) which had historically been part of Germany for centuries before 31 December 1937. The treaty defined the territory of a 'united Germany' as being the territory of East Germany, West Germany and Berlin, prohibiting Germany from making any future territorial claims. Germany also agreed to sign a separate treaty with Poland reaffirming the present common border, binding under international law, effectively relinquishing these territories to Poland. This was done on 14 November 1990 with the signing of the German-Polish Border Treaty. Furthermore, the Federal Republic was required by the treaty to amend its Basic Law so as to be constitutionally prohibited from accepting any application for incorporation into Germany from territories outside the territories of East Germany, West Germany and Berlin.\n\nAlthough the treaty was signed by West and East Germany as separate sovereign states, it was subsequently also ratified by united Germany (the Federal Republic of Germany).\n\nAfter the Soviet Union dissolved itself in December 1991, the command unit of the Soviet Group of Soviet Forces in Germany devolved to the Russian Federation. The German government subsequently recognized the Russian Federation's claim to be the continuator state of the Soviet Union, including the right to maintain troops in Germany until the end of 1994. However, with post-Soviet Russia facing severe economic hardship, President Boris Yeltsin ordered Russian troop deployment in Germany to be reduced to levels significantly below those permitted in the Treaty. The last Russian troops left Germany at the end of August in 1994, four months before the treaty deadline.\n\nIn the first decade of the 21st century, the Bundeswehr underwent a gradual transformation to a fully professional force. By 2011, the year Germany voluntarily suspended conscription, the Bundeswehr had retained fewer than 250,000 active duty personnel – barely two thirds of the country's treaty limit of 370,000.\n\nThe treaty has been alleged to have been violated on a number of occasions. In 2006, German News Information Services argued that \"an international lawsuit should be initiated against the development of installations at Leipzig Airport in preparation for service in NATO and EU combat missions\". Similarly, manoeuvres including NATO-troops in Trollenhagen, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern in the area of the former East Germany have also been questioned. Under one interpretation of the treaty, only German forces may be deployed in the area of the former East Germany. In September 2007, France offered Germany joint control over its nuclear arsenal, but the Germans rejected this.\n\nHistorian Stephen F. Cohen asserted in 2005 that a commitment was given that NATO would never expand further east, but according to Robert Zoellick, then a US State Department official involved in the Two Plus Four negotiating process, this appears to be a misperception; no formal commitment of the sort was made. On 7 May 2008 the former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, in an interview with the British newspaper \"The Daily Telegraph\", stated his view that such a commitment had been made:\n\nHowever, in a 2014 interview Gorbachev reversed himself by saying that the topic of \"NATO expansion\" as such was \"not discussed at all\", although he maintained that the decision to expand NATO into the east was a \"violation of the spirit of the statements and assurances made to us in 1990\".\n\nSome argue that such a commitment was not made during the discussions on German reunification. Allegedly, the issue of expanding NATO into Central and Eastern European states was not on the agenda at that time, since all of them were Warsaw Pact members and most still had substantial Soviet combat units stationed on their soil, and Gorbachev \"did not even contemplate seeking a provision that would bar any other Warsaw Pact countries from eventually pursuing membership in NATO\". This was rebuked by the National Security Archive in December 2017, which had looked in the declassified record:\n\nThe invocation of the supposed non-expansion pledge to justify Russia's annexation of Crimea has been criticized by NATO.\n\nThe two-plus-four-treaty had the function of a peace treaty, but it was not called a peace treaty. This could not be in their interest \"for financial reasons\", according to the German State Secretary Friedrich Voss at that time. The reason was the open question of German reparations for World War II, especially in the case of Greece. Today Berlin argues that the Greeks should have made their demands in 1990.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9751808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9751808", "title": "Wisconsin gubernatorial elections", "text": "Wisconsin gubernatorial elections\n\nPercentages are approximate:\n^ Recall election\n\n"}
{"id": "37104823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37104823", "title": "XOXO (festival)", "text": "XOXO (festival)\n\nXOXO is an annual festival and conference held in Portland, Oregon, that describes itself as \"celebrating independently produced art and technology\". XOXO was founded in 2012 by Andy Baio and Andy McMillan with funding from prepaid tickets and other contributions via Kickstarter, and it was described by the \"New York Times\" as an \"experimental\" conference.\n\nThe inaugural event was held in Portland's Yale Union Laundry Building in September 2012 with approximately 400 participants. The first day of the conference focused on talks from independent creators from fields such as film, comics, music, art and illustration, video games, hardware design and product design, while the second centered on technology, and those building tools to facilitate and encourage independent creativity through the web. Speakers and performers included Dan Harmon, Adam Savage, MC Frontalot, Chris Poole, Bre Pettis, Julia Nunes, The Kleptones, The Limousines, and the creators of Kickstarter, MetaFilter, VHX, Simple, \"Diesel Sweeties\", \"\" and \"World of Goo\".\n\nAssociated events included live music, film screenings, an arcade of independently produced videogames, a pub crawl, a market, and food trucks.\n\nNews media and bloggers noted an \"impressive list of speakers\", a focus on \"democratizing media and innovation\", and an \"intimate tone\" missing from other technology-focused conferences. Ruth Brown wrote \"the audience was overwhelmingly white, male, middle class and educated.\"\n\nXOXO returned to the Yale Union Laundry Building in September 2013 with speakers, workshops, films, music shows, game events, and a market. Baio described it as being \"about artists and hackers and makers that are using the internet to make a living doing what they love independently without sacrificing creative or financial control\". \"Portland Monthly\" compared the event to the larger South by Southwest festival, quoting Matthew Haughey saying SXSW speakers are \"in the business of selling technologies\" and XOXO speakers are \"creating things\". To handle increased interest while remaining small (500 conference tickets and 200 \"fringe event\" tickets), it had an application process with questions intended to filter out people who wanted to market to attendees.\n\nSpeakers and performers included Tim Schafer, Vi Hart, Evan Williams, Molly Crabapple, Marco Arment, Jack Conte, Erika Moen, Jay Smooth, Adrian Holovaty, and the creators of Cards Against Humanity, Pinboard, and Panic. The editors of Boing Boing—Mark Frauenfelder, Cory Doctorow, David Pescovitz, and Xeni Jardin—appeared together on stage for the first time to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the zine's launch in 1988. Musical performances included Anamanaguchi, Jack Conte, Jonathan Coulton, and Jim Guthrie.\n\nAn attendee, Glenn Fleishman, described the conference as having a very friendly social environment and inspiring people to change their jobs, and he noted essays by other attendees about the need for critique and not just friendliness, a lack of gender balance similar to the technology industry in general, and a harassment incident that was handled effectively. Another attendee also discussed her enjoyment of the people at the conference, and she noted the challenge of running a conference about independent creators that is inaccessible for some independent creators due to ticket and travel cost.\n\nThe organizers described their choice of Yale Union Laundry Building as important to the event, with character and history unlike Portland's convention center.\n\nIn 2014, the third XOXO was held on September 11–14, 2014 at The Redd, a former metal stamping facility in an industrial area of SE Portland.\n\nThe XOXO lineup was announced in June 2014 and conference tickets were sold out by the first week of July. Conference speakers included Anita Sarkeesian, Hank Green, Gina Trapani, Golan Levin, John Gruber, Leigh Alexander, Kevin Kelly, Justin Hall, Jonathan Mann, Rachel Binx, and Welcome to Night Vale co-creator Joseph Fink. Sarkeesian's appearance was met with controversy from Gamergate supporters, with one protestor passing out leaflets.\n\nA new evening event, XOXO Story, was added in 2014 with live performances of popular podcasts like Harmontown, John Roderick's Rendezvous, and Song Exploder featuring an interview with The Thermals. A second night of music was also added, including performances from Pomplamoose, YACHT, Molly Lewis, John Roderick and Sean Nelson from The Long Winters, Mike Doughty, and Nerf Herder. XOXO Arcade featured 10 unreleased or exhibition-only games, such as Quadrilateral Cowboy and the ten-player Killer Queen arcade cabinet, and new work from Keita Takahashi, Threes creator Asher Vollmer, and QWOP creator Bennett Foddy.\n\nTen films and shorts were shown at XOXO Film, including previews of the first two episodes of Natasha Allegri's Bee & Puppycat series, new animations from David OReilly and PES, and the debut of Empire Uncut, the crowdsourced sequel to Star Wars Uncut.\n\nNews media and bloggers noted a more serious tone from previous years. Boing Boing said a \"darker sense of mission and meaning took hold in the event's third year.\" The Verge called it \"the most interesting weekend in tech\" that \"pushes the web forward.\" The Daily Dot reported that 40% of attendees were female, double the rate of previous years.\n\nThe fourth XOXO was held on September 10–13, 2015 at Revolution Hall, the auditorium of the former Washington High School in the Buckman neighborhood of SE Portland. For the first time, a limited number of subsidized passes were offered for $50 to those who couldn't otherwise afford to attend. Free on-site childcare, live captioning of talks, and free bike rentals were also new additions.\n\nConference speakers included Heather Armstrong, Gimlet Media's Alex Blumberg, Veronica Belmont, Kathy Sierra, Spike Trotman, Daniel Mallory Ortberg, Anil Dash, Zoë Quinn, Eric A. Meyer, BoJack Horseman's Lisa Hanawalt, Vlambeer's Rami Ismail, and the creators of Suck.com, reuniting on stage for the webzine's 20th anniversary.\n\nXOXO Music was held on an outdoor stage for the first time, with evening musical performances by Dan Deacon, Kaki King, Vulfpeck, Open Mike Eagle, NIKO IS, Kawehi, and the first live CVS Bangers by Hennessy Youngman. During the day, music performances were curated by Patreon's Jack Conte and Ground Kontrol's Art Santana.\n\nSeven films and shorts were shown at XOXO Film & Animation with Q&A from the creators, including new work from Every Frame A Painting's Tony Zhou, Everything Is A Remix's Kirby Ferguson, Feminist Frequency's Anita Sarkeesian, and animator Justin Roiland screened House of Cosbys and debuted a new episode of Rick and Morty. XOXO Story, an evening event focused on live podcasts and storytelling, featured live performances from Gimlet Media's Reply All, Hello from the Magic Tavern, the founders of Suck.com, and You Look Nice Today with Merlin Mann, Adam Lisagor, and Scott Simpson, followed by the unannounced premiere of Adam Lisagor's Computer Show.\n\nXOXO Arcade featured 14 unreleased independent games with their designers and developers on-site, including Firewatch, Overland, Hyper Light Drifter, Donut County, Below, Cibele, Keita Takahashi's Wattam, Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes, and the first playable appearance of Tacoma, Fullbright's followup to Gone Home. XOXO Tabletop brought the creators of eight independently-produced tabletop games to show their work, including The Metagame, Two Rooms and a Boom, Bycatch, Funemployed, and Marrying Mr. Darcy.\n\nEngadget wrote many talks were \"emotionally driven... centered around the difficult issues of being independent.\" The Guardian attributed the festival's popularity to \"its gentleness, its emotive undertone and thoughtful curation, but also its commitment to supporting individual artists over businesses and corporates.\"\n\nThe Verge wrote that Slack \"broke out at Portland's XOXO Festival\" when attendees used the chat software in the weeks leading up the festival to socialize and coordinate activities, creating over 150 channels covering a variety of interests.\n\nFor the fifth XOXO, held September 8—11, 2016, the festival returned to Revolution Hall in SE Portland, with over 1,200 attendees. Expanding the amenities from the previous year, 10% of passes were offered to low-income attendees for free, reduced from $50 the previous year. Free on-site childcare included a new childrens' arcade with a rotating lineup of independent videogames, and children were allowed to attend the festival for free.\n\nConference speakers included Gaby Dunn, Talia Jane, Sammus, Neil Cicierega, Star Simpson, Mystery Show creator Starlee Kine, John Roderick, Lucy Bellwood, Simone Giertz, Jenn Schiffer, David Rees, Itch.io's Leaf Corcoran, Sarah Jeong, Another Round's Heben Nigatu, Majal's Esra'a Al-Shafei, and writer/designer Frank Chimero.\n\nAt XOXO Film & Animation, six video creators were featured with screenings and audience Q&As, including Don't Hug Me I'm Scared, new work from the creators of Every Frame A Painting and Baman Piderman, the first public appearance of Auralnauts, and the debut of Feminist Frequency's Ordinary Women animated webseries. The Brothers Chaps showed selections of their work from Homestar Runner and Two More Eggs, and improvised a live performance of Strong Bad's \"Trogdor the Burninator\" episode. XOXO Story staged the first live episode of The Foo Show, a virtual reality talk show hosted by Will Smith, who interviewed Quadrilateral Cowboy designer Brendon Chung inside interactive sets from the game, followed by live performances of Flash Forward, The Heart, Reasonably Sound, and Just Between Us with YouTube creators Gaby Dunn and Allison Raskin.\n\nXOXO Arcade featured 12 unreleased or exhibition-only games with their designers and developers on-site, including TumbleSeed, Thimbleweed Park, Rain World, Memory of a Broken Dimension, Beglitched, Secret Legend, Tetrageddon Games, Funomena's Luna, and Multibowl, an experimental mashup by Bennett Foddy and AP Thomson combining 230 two-player games from the 1980s and 1990s. XOXO Tabletop brought the creators of 13 independently-produced board and card games to show their work, including Beasts of Balance, the Jackbox Party Pack, the Spaceteam card game adaptation, Emily Care Boss' Breaking the Ice, and Illimat, a Kickstarter-funded board game created by game designer Keith Baker and The Decemberists. Singer Colin Meloy and illustrator Carson Ellis joined Baker to play the game with attendees.\n\nJim Guthrie and Minecraft soundtrack composer C418 performed daytime DJ sets, and the closing party featured a surprise performance by Dan Deacon in the XOXO Outpost building.\n\nPress coverage focused on the hiatus and the festival's impact. The Verge called it \"the internet's best festival,\" and highlighted its attention to detail, focus on diversity, and curation. A followup article featured highlights and discoveries from the festival lineup.\n\nAfter a one-year hiatus in 2017, XOXO organizers have announced that the conference will take place again in 2018.\n\nIn June 2015, the organizers of XOXO announced they were opening a shared workspace to \"bring some of our favorite people and projects in indie art and tech under one roof\" in a 13,000 square foot building in Portland's Central Eastside Industrial District. The Outpost opened in February 2016, and served over 85 members including video game designers, filmmakers, musicians, writers, and artists, until a sharp increase in rent forced it to close on December 30, 2016.\n"}
