{"id": "19604151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19604151", "title": "Atomic mass", "text": "Atomic mass\n\nThe atomic mass (\"m\") is the mass of an atom. Its unit is the unified atomic mass units (symbol: u, or Da) where 1 unified atomic mass unit is defined as of the mass of a single carbon-12 atom, at rest.\nFor atoms, the protons and neutrons of the nucleus account for almost all of the mass, and the atomic mass measured in u has nearly the same value as the mass number.\n\nWhen divided by unified atomic mass units or daltons to form a pure numeric ratio, the atomic mass of an atom becomes a dimensionless value called the relative isotopic mass (see section below). Thus, the atomic mass of a carbon-12 atom is 12 u or 12 daltons (Da), but the relative isotopic mass of a carbon-12 atom is simply 12.\n\nThe atomic mass or relative isotopic mass refers to the mass of a single particle, and therefore is tied to a certain specific isotope of an element. The dimensionless standard atomic weight instead refers to the average (mathematical mean) of atomic mass values of a typical naturally-occurring mixture of isotopes for a sample of an element. Atomic mass values are thus commonly reported to many more significant figures than atomic weights. Standard atomic weight is related to atomic mass by the abundance ranking of isotopes for each element. It is usually \"about\" the same value as the atomic mass of the most abundant isotope, other than what looks like (but is not actually) a rounding difference.\n\nThe atomic mass of atoms, ions, or atomic nuclei is slightly less than the sum of the masses of their constituent protons, neutrons, and electrons, due to binding energy mass loss (as per \"E\"=\"mc\").\n\nRelative \"isotopic\" mass (a property of a single atom) is not to be confused with the averaged quantity atomic weight (see above), that is an average of values for many atoms in a given sample of a chemical element.\n\nRelative isotopic mass is similar to atomic mass and has exactly the same numerical value as atomic mass, whenever atomic mass is expressed in unified atomic mass units. The only difference in that case, is that relative isotopic mass is a pure number with no units. This loss of units results from the use of a scaling ratio with respect to a carbon-12 standard, and the word \"relative\" in the term \"relative isotopic mass\" refers to this scaling \"relative\" to carbon-12.\n\nThe relative isotopic mass, then, is the mass of a given isotope (specifically, any single nuclide), when this value is scaled by the mass of carbon-12, when the latter is set equal to 12. Equivalently, the relative isotopic mass of an isotope or nuclide is the mass of the isotope relative to 1/12 of the mass of a carbon-12 atom.\n\nFor example, the relative isotopic mass of a carbon-12 atom is exactly 12. For comparison, the atomic mass of a carbon-12 atom is exactly 12 daltons or 12 unified atomic mass units. Alternately, the atomic mass of a carbon-12 atom may be expressed in any other mass units: for example, the atomic mass of a carbon-12 atom is about 1.998467052 × 10 kilograms.\n\nAs in the case of atomic mass, no nuclides other than carbon-12 have exactly whole-number values of relative isotopic mass. As is the case for the related \"atomic mass\" when expressed in unified atomic mass units or daltons, the relative isotopic mass numbers of nuclides other than carbon-12 are not whole numbers, but are always close to whole numbers. This is discussed more fully below.\n\nThe atomic mass and relative isotopic mass are sometimes confused, or incorrectly used, as synonyms of standard atomic weight (also known as atomic weight) and the standard atomic weight (a particular variety of atomic weight, in the sense that is a standardized atomic weight). However, as noted in the introduction, atomic weight and standard atomic weight represent terms for (abundance-weighted) averages of atomic masses in elemental samples, not for single nuclides. As such, atomic weight and standard atomic weight often differ numerically from relative isotopic mass and atomic mass, and they can also have different units than atomic mass when this quantity is not expressed in unified atomic mass units (see the linked article for atomic weight).\n\nThe atomic mass (relative isotopic mass) is defined as the mass of a single atom, which can only be one isotope (nuclide) at a time, and is not an abundance-weighted average, as in the case of relative atomic mass/atomic weight. The atomic mass or relative isotopic mass of each isotope and nuclide of a chemical element is therefore a number that can in principle be measured to a very great precision, since every specimen of such a nuclide is expected to be exactly identical to every other specimen, as all atoms of a given type in the same energy state, and every specimen of a particular nuclide, are expected to be exactly identical in mass to every other specimen of that nuclide. For example, every atom of oxygen-16 is expected to have exactly the same atomic mass (relative isotopic mass) as every other atom of oxygen-16.\n\nIn the case of many elements that have one naturally occurring isotope (mononuclidic elements) or one dominant isotope, the actual numerical similarity/difference between the atomic mass of the most common isotope, and the (standard) relative atomic mass or (standard) atomic weight can be small or even nil, and does not affect most bulk calculations. However, such an error can exist and even be important when considering individual atoms for elements that are not mononuclidic.\n\nFor non-mononuclidic elements that have more than one common isotope, the numerical difference in relative atomic mass (atomic weight) from even the most common relative isotopic mass, can be half a mass unit or more (e.g. see the case of chlorine where atomic weight and standard atomic weight are about 35.45). The atomic mass (relative isotopic mass) of an uncommon isotope can differ from the relative atomic mass, atomic weight, or standard atomic weight, by several mass units.\n\nAtomic masses expressed in unified atomic mass units (i.e. relative isotopic masses) are always close to whole-number values, but never (except in the case of carbon-12) exactly a whole number, for two reasons:\n\n\nThe ratio of atomic mass to mass number (number of nucleons) varies from about 0.99884 for Fe to 1.00782505 for H.\n\nAny mass defect due to nuclear binding energy is experimentally a small fraction (less than 1%) of the mass of equal number of free nucleons. When compared to the average mass per nucleon in carbon-12, which is moderately strongly-bound compared with other atoms, the mass defect of binding for most atoms is an even smaller fraction of a dalton (unified atomic mass unit, based on carbon-12). Since free protons and neutrons differ from each other in mass by a small fraction of a dalton (about 0.0014 u), rounding the relative isotopic mass, or the atomic mass of any given nuclide given in daltons to the nearest whole number always gives the nucleon count, or mass number. Additionally, the neutron count (neutron number) may then be derived by subtracting the number of protons (atomic number) from the mass number (nucleon count).\n\nThe amount that the ratio of atomic masses to mass number deviates from 1 is as follows: the deviation starts positive at hydrogen-1, then decreases until it reaches a local minimum at helium-4. Isotopes of lithium, beryllium, and boron are less strongly bound than helium, as shown by their increasing mass-to-mass number ratios.\n\nAt carbon, the ratio of mass (in daltons) to mass number is defined as 1, and after carbon it becomes less than one until a minimum is reached at iron-56 (with only slightly higher values for iron-58 and nickel-62), then increases to positive values in the heavy isotopes, with increasing atomic number. This corresponds to the fact that nuclear fission in an element heavier than zirconium produces energy, and fission in any element lighter than niobium requires energy. On the other hand, nuclear fusion of two atoms of an element lighter than scandium (except for helium) produces energy, whereas fusion in elements heavier than calcium requires energy. The fusion of two atoms of He-4 to give beryllium-8 would require energy, and the beryllium would quickly fall apart again. He-4 can fuse with tritium (H-3) or with He-3, and these processes occurred during Big Bang nucleosynthesis. The formation of elements with more than seven nucleons requires the fusion of three atoms of He-4 in the so-called triple alpha process, skipping over lithium, beryllium, and boron to produce carbon.\n\nHere are some values of the ratio of atomic mass to mass number:\nDirect comparison and measurement of the masses of atoms is achieved with mass spectrometry.\n\nThe standard scientific unit used to quantify the amount of a substance in macroscopic quantities is the mole (symbol: mol), which is defined arbitrarily as the amount of a substance which has as many atoms or molecules as there are atoms in 12 grams of the carbon isotope C-12. The number of atoms in a mole is called Avogadro's number, the value of which is approximately 6.022 × 10.\n\nOne mole of a substance always contains almost exactly the \"standard atomic weight\" or \"molar mass\" of that substance; however, this may or may not be true for the \"atomic mass,\" depending on whether or not the element exists naturally in more than one isotope. For example, the standard atomic weight of iron is 55.847 g/mol, and therefore one mole of iron as commonly found on earth has a mass of 55.847 grams. The \"atomic mass\" of the Fe isotope is 55.935 u and one mole of Fe atoms would then in theory have a mass of 55.935 g, but such amounts of pure Fe have never been found (or separated out) on Earth. However, there are 22 mononuclidic elements of which essentially only a single isotope is found in nature (common examples are fluorine, sodium, aluminum and phosphorus) and for these elements the standard atomic weight and atomic mass are the same. Samples of these elements therefore may serve as reference standards for certain atomic mass values.\n\nThe formula used for conversion between atomic mass units and SI mass in grams for a single atom is:\n\nwhere formula_2 is the Molar mass constant and formula_3 is the Avogadro constant.\n\nSimilar definitions apply to molecules. One can compute the molecular mass of a compound by adding the atomic masses of its constituent atoms (nuclides). One can compute the molar mass of a compound by adding the relative atomic masses of the elements given in the chemical formula. In both cases the multiplicity of the atoms (the number of times it occurs) must be taken into account, usually by multiplication of each unique mass by its multiplicity.\n\nThe first scientists to determine relative atomic masses were John Dalton and Thomas Thomson between 1803 and 1805 and Jöns Jakob Berzelius between 1808 and 1826. Relative atomic mass (\"Atomic weight\") was originally defined relative to that of the lightest element, hydrogen, which was taken as 1.00, and in the 1820s Prout's hypothesis stated that atomic masses of all elements would prove to be exact multiples of that of hydrogen. Berzelius, however, soon proved that this was not even approximately true, and for some elements, such as chlorine, relative atomic mass, at about 35.5, falls almost exactly halfway between two integral multiples of that of hydrogen. Still later, this was shown to be largely due to a mix of isotopes, and that the atomic masses of pure isotopes, or nuclides, are multiples of the hydrogen mass, to within about 1%.\n\nIn the 1860s Stanislao Cannizzaro refined relative atomic masses by applying Avogadro's law (notably at the Karlsruhe Congress of 1860). He formulated a law to determine relative atomic masses of elements: \"the different quantities of the same element contained in different molecules are all whole multiples of the atomic weight\" and determined relative atomic masses and molecular masses by comparing the vapor density of a collection of gases with molecules containing one or more of the chemical element in question.\n\nIn the 20th century, until the 1960s chemists and physicists used two different atomic-mass scales. The chemists used a \"atomic mass unit\" (amu) scale such that the natural mixture of oxygen isotopes had an atomic mass 16, while the physicists assigned the same number 16 to only the atomic mass of the most common oxygen isotope (O, containing eight protons and eight neutrons). However, because oxygen-17 and oxygen-18 are also present in natural oxygen this led to two different tables of atomic mass. The unified scale based on carbon-12, C, met the physicists' need to base the scale on a pure isotope, while being numerically close to the chemists' scale.\n\nThe term \"atomic weight\" is being phased out slowly and being replaced by \"relative atomic mass\", in most current usage. This shift in nomenclature reaches back to the 1960s and has been the source of much debate in the scientific community, which was triggered by the adoption of the unified atomic mass unit and the realization that weight was in some ways an inappropriate term. The argument for keeping the term \"atomic weight\" was primarily that it was a well understood term to those in the field, that the term \"atomic mass\" was already in use (as it is currently defined) and that the term \"relative atomic mass\" might be easily confused with \"relative isotopic mass\" (the mass of a single atom of a given nuclide, expressed dimensionlessly relative to 1/12 of the mass of carbon-12; see section above).\n\nIn 1979, as a compromise, the term \"relative atomic mass\" was introduced as a secondary synonym for atomic weight. Twenty years later the primacy of these synonyms was reversed, and the term \"relative atomic mass\" is now the preferred term.\n\nHowever, the term \"\"standard\" atomic weights\" (referring to the standardized expectation atomic weights of differing samples) has not been changed, because simple replacement of \"atomic weight\" with \"relative atomic mass\" would have resulted in the term \"standard relative atomic mass.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3983697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3983697", "title": "Belt of Venus", "text": "Belt of Venus\n\nThe Belt of Venus, Venus's Girdle, or antitwilight arch is an atmospheric phenomenon visible shortly before sunrise or after sunset, during civil twilight, when a pinkish glow extending roughly 10–20° above the horizon surrounds the observer.\n\nIn a way, the Belt of Venus is actually alpenglow visible above the horizon during twilight, near the antisolar point. Like alpenglow, the backscatter of reddened sunlight also creates the Belt of Venus. Unlike alpenglow, the sunlight refracted by the fine particulates that cause the rosy arch of the Belt hovers high in the atmosphere and persists long after sunset or before sunrise. \n\nAs twilight progresses, the glow is separated from the horizon by the dark band of Earth's shadow, or \"dark segment.\" The arch's light pink color is due to the backscatter of reddened light from the rising or setting Sun. A very similar effect can be seen during a total lunar eclipse. The zodiacal light, which is caused by the diffuse reflection of sunlight from the interplanetary dust in the Solar System, is also a similar phenomenon.\n\nThe name of the phenomenon alludes to the \"cestus\", a girdle or breast-band, of the Ancient Greek goddess Aphrodite, customarily equated with the Roman goddess Venus. Since the greatest elongation (separation) between Venus and the Sun is only about 46 degrees, the planet Venus, even when visible, is never located opposite the sun and hence is never located in the Belt of Venus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18207968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18207968", "title": "Birds Korea", "text": "Birds Korea\n\nBirds Korea is an organisation dedicated to the conservation of birds and their habitats in South Korea and the wider Yellow Sea Eco-region.\n\nFounded in 2004 and based in the port city of Busan, Birds Korea has regularly updated websites in both English and Korean. Birds Korea works on a wide range of conservation projects, including research, advocacy, and education programs. As such, the organisation has received wide domestic and international coverage of their work in both online and mainstream media, on issues ranging from Korean outbreaks of H5N1 avian influenza (2005–2006), to the impacts of the Taean oil spill (2007), to pilot restoration work at the Mokpo Namhang urban wetland (2007–2008), and to concerns over avian biodiversity threatened by the proposed Korean Grand Canal Project (2008).\n\nMost notably, in 2006 Birds Korea developed the Saemangeum Shorebird Monitoring Program (SSMP) in partnership with the Australasian Wader Studies Group, monitoring the impacts of the world's largest known coastal reclamation (the 40,100 ha Saemangeum) on populations of migratory shorebirds. Prior to seawall closure in April 2006, Saemangeum was considered to be the single most important shorebird site in the Yellow Sea (Barter, 2002). The SSMP documented (following seawall closure) very major declines of several species of shorebirds within the Saemangeum reclamation area and adjacent wetlands (Moores et al., 2006; Rogers et al., 2006; Moores et al., 2007), and through further coordinated survey effort (e.g. the 2008 Birds Korea National Shorebird Survey), declines of species such as spoon-billed sandpiper \"Eurynorhynchus pygmeus\" (critically endangered) and great knot \"Calidris tenuirostris\" at the national level too. SSMP and other shorebird data gathered in 2008 is to be published in time for the Tenth Conference of the Parties of the Ramsar Convention (to be held in Changwon City, South Korea, between October 28 and November 4, 2008), to inform and influence the increasingly urgent debate on the need to better conserve the intertidal habitats and biodiversity of the Yellow Sea.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40305446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40305446", "title": "Central American montane forests", "text": "Central American montane forests\n\nThe Central American montane forests are an ecoregion of the tropical and subtropical moist broadleaf forests biome, as defined by the World Wildlife Fund, located in mountains of Central America. \n\nCentral American montane forests consist of forest patches located at altitudes ranging from , on the summits and slopes of the highest mountains in Central America, including the Sierra Madre de Chiapas. It extends from Chiapas state in southeastern Mexico, through Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras, to northern Nicaragua.\n\nThe ecoregion covers an area of . The ecoregion has a temperate climate with relatively high precipitation levels.\n"}
{"id": "35409451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35409451", "title": "Cona Lake", "text": "Cona Lake\n\nCona, also Dongaii Cona or Tsonag Lake (, Cuonahu), is a major lake of northern Tibet Autonomous Region, China and is It is located in Amdo County, west of the road between Nagqu Town and Amdo Town. The lake is considered holy to the Tibetans especially in the Bon religion, as it is seen as the \"soul lake\" of the Razheng Living Buddha. The smaller Ganong Lake lies almost adjacent to the southeast.\n\nIts area is approximately 300 square kilometers, and it is at 4594 meters above sea level making it one of the world's higher freshwater lakes.\n\nTsonag Lake can be observed on the right (west) as the train passes Tsonag Lake Railway Station on Qingzang Railway, going south toward Lhasa.\n\n"}
{"id": "39621288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39621288", "title": "Deep Carbon Observatory", "text": "Deep Carbon Observatory\n\nThe Deep Carbon Observatory (DCO) is a global research program designed to transform understanding of carbon's role in Earth. DCO is a community of scientists, including biologists, physicists, geoscientists and chemists, whose work crosses several traditional disciplinary lines to develop the new, integrative field of deep carbon science. To complement this research, the DCO’s infrastructure includes public engagement and education, online and offline community support, innovative data management, and novel instrumentation development.\n\nIn 2007, Robert Hazen, a Senior Staff Scientist at the Carnegie Institution’s Geophysical Laboratory (Washington, DC, USA) spoke at the Century Club in New York, on the origins of life on Earth and how geophysical reactions may have played a critical role in the development of life on Earth. Jesse Ausubel, a faculty member at Rockefeller University and Program Director at the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, was in attendance and later sought out Hazen’s book, \"Genesis: The Scientific Quest for Life’s Origins\".\n\nAfter two years of planning and collaboration, Hazen and colleagues officially launched the Deep Carbon Observatory (DCO) in August 2009, with its secretariat based at the Geophysical Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, DC. Hazen and Ausubel, along with input from over 100 scientists invited to participate in the Deep Carbon Cycle Workshop in 2008, expanded their original idea. No longer focused solely on the origin of life on Earth, the group instead clarified their position to further human understanding of Earth, carbon, that critical element, had to take center stage.\n\nThe Deep Carbon Observatory's research considers the global carbon cycle beyond Earth's surface. It explores high-pressure and extreme temperature organic synthesis, complex interactions between organic molecules and minerals, conducts field observations of deep microbial ecosystems and of anomalies in petroleum geochemistry, and constructs theoretical models of lower crust and upper mantle carbon sources and sinks.\n\nThe Deep Carbon Observatory is structured around four Science Communities: Reservoirs and Fluxes, Deep Life, Deep Energy, and Extreme Physics and Chemistry.\n\nThe Reservoirs and Fluxes Community explores the storage and transport of carbon in Earth’s deep interior. The subduction of tectonic plates and volcanic outgassing are primary vehicles for carbon fluxes to and from deep Earth, but the processes and rates of these fluxes, as well as their variation throughout Earth's history, remain poorly understood. In addition DCO research on primitive chondritic meteorites indicates that Earth is relatively depleted in highly volatile elements compared to chondrites, though DCO's research is further examining whether large reservoirs of carbon may be hidden in the mantle and core. Members of the Reservoirs and Fluxes Community are conducting research as a part of the Deep Earth Carbon Degassing Project to make tangible advances towards quantifying the amount of carbon outgassed from the Earth’s deep interior (core, mantle, crust) into the surface environment (e.g. biosphere, hydrosphere, cryosphere, atmosphere) through naturally occurring processes.\n\nThe Deep Life Community documents the extreme limits and global extent of subsurface life in our planet, exploring the evolutionary and functional diversity of Earth’s deep biosphere and its interaction with the carbon cycle. The Deep Life Community maps the abundance and diversity of subsurface marine and continental microorganisms in time and space as a function of their genomic and biogeochemical properties, and their interactions with deep carbon. By integrating \"in situ\" and \"in vitro\" assessments of biomolecules and cells, the Deep Life Community explores the environmental limits to the survival, metabolism and reproduction of deep life. The resulting data informs experiments and models that study the impact of deep life on the carbon cycle, and the deep biosphere’s relation to the surface world. Members of the Deep Life Community are conducting research as a part of the Census of Deep Life, which seeks to seeks to identify the diversity and distribution of microbial life in continental and marine deep subsurface environments and to explore mechanisms that govern microbial evolution and dispersal in the deep biosphere.\n\nThe Deep Energy Community is dedicated to quantifying the environmental conditions and processes from the molecular to the global scale that control the origins, forms, quantities and movements of reduced carbon compounds derived from deep carbon through deep geologic time. The Deep Energy Community uses field-based investigations of approximately 25 globally representative terrestrial and marine environments to determine processes controlling the origin, form, quantities and movements of abiotic gases and organic species in Earth’s crust and uppermost mantle. Deep Energy also uses DCO-sponsored instrumentation, especially revolutionary isotopologue measurements, to discriminate between the abiotic and biotic methane gas and organic species sampled from global terrestrial and marine field sites. Another research activity of Deep Energy is to quantify the mechanisms and rates of fluid-rock interactions that produce abiotic hydrogen and organic compounds as a function of temperature, pressure, fluid and solid compositions.\n\nAs a result of a series of workshops, the DCO initiated an additional Science Community to examine the physics and chemistry of carbon under extreme conditions. The overarching goal of the Extreme Physics and Chemistry Community is to improve the understanding of the physical and chemical behavior of carbon at extreme conditions, as found in the deep interiors of Earth and other planets. Extreme Physics and chemistry research explores thermodynamics of carbon-bearing systems, chemical kinetics of chemical deep carbon processes, high-pressure biology and biophysics, physical properties of aqueous fluids, theoretical modeling for carbon and its compounds at high pressures and temperatures, and solid-fluid interactions under extreme conditions. The Extreme Physics and Chemistry Community also seeks to identify possible new carbon-bearing materials in Earth and planetary interiors, to characterize the properties of these materials and to identify reactions at conditions relevant to Earth and planetary interiors.\n\nAs the DCO nears its completion in 2020, it is integrating the discoveries made by its research communities into an overarching model of carbon in Earth, as well as other models and products aimed at both the scientific community and wider public.\n\nResearch highlights to date include: \n\n\"Carbon in Earth\", Volume 75 of \"Reviews in Mineralogy and Geochemistry\" (\"RiMG\") was released as an open access publication on March 11, 2013. Each chapter of \"Carbon in Earth\" synthesizes what is known about deep carbon, and also outlines unanswered questions that will guide future DCO research. The Deep Carbon Observatory encourages open access publication, and is striving to become a leader in Earth sciences in this regard. DCO funding can be used to defray the costs of open access publication.\n\nRecent advances in data generation techniques lead to increasingly complex data. At the same time, science and engineering disciplines are rapidly becoming more and more data driven with the ultimate aim of better understanding and modeling the dynamics of complex systems. However complex data requires integration of information and knowledge across multiple scales and spanning traditional disciplinary boundaries. Significant advances in methods, tools and applications for data science and informatics over the last five years can now be applied to multi- and inter-disciplinary problem areas. Given these challenges, it is clear that each DCO Research Community faces diverse data science and data management needs to fulfill both their overarching objectives and their day-to-day tasks. The Deep Carbon Observatory Data Science Team handles the data science and data management needs for each DCO program and for the DCO as a whole, using a combination of informatics methods, use case development, requirements analysis, inventories and interviews.\n\nA list of some of the scientists involved in the Deep Carbon Observatory:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35196315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35196315", "title": "Energy Performance Investment", "text": "Energy Performance Investment\n\nAn Energy Performance Investment is a funding solution that enables entities (the end beneficiary) to acquire Energy Conservation Measures (ECM) via a third party investor and pay for them from the financial value of the proven energy savings achieved using a pay-as-you-save mechanism.\n\nThis investment model is similar in principle to an Energy Performance Contract (EPC) but with the exception that no guarantees are made as to the level of energy savings. Instead under the EPI the financial value of the proven and verified energy savings from the invested solution are shared between the end beneficiary and the investor at a predefined ratio. The third party investment is not a loan or a lease.\n\nOne of the key benefits of the EPI investment mechanism to the end beneficiary is that they only pay a proportion of the value achieved resulting in a reduction in their energy costs. Should no financial saving be achieved then the end beneficiary has nothing to pay i.e. they make no capital investment and will never be worse off.\n\nTypically the measurement of the financial savings achieved is performed by a party unrelated to all other parties involved in the arrangement in order to ensure independence.\n\nThe first EPI was performed by Decarbon Limited in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "2900719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2900719", "title": "Energy derivative", "text": "Energy derivative\n\nAn energy derivative is a derivative contract based on (derived from) an underlying energy asset, such as natural gas, crude oil, or electricity. Energy derivatives are exotic derivatives and include exchange-traded contracts such as futures and options, and over-the-counter (i.e., privately negotiated) derivatives such as forwards, swaps and options. Major players in the energy derivative markets include major trading houses, oil companies, utilities, and financial institutions.\n\nEnergy derivatives were criticized after the 2008 financial crisis, with critics pointing out that the market artificially inflates the price of oil and other energy providers.\n\nThe basic building blocks for all derivative contracts are futures and swaps contracts. In energy markets, these are traded in New York NYMEX, in Tokyo TOCOM and online through the IntercontinentalExchange. A future is a contract to deliver or receive oil (in the case of an oil future) at a defined point in the future. The price is agreed on the date the deal/agreement/bargain is struck together with volume, duration, and contract index. The price for the futures contract at the date of delivery (contract expiry date) may be different. At the expiry date, depending upon the contract specification the \"futures\" owner may either deliver/receive a physical amount of oil (extremely rare), they may settle in cash against an expiration price set by the exchange, or they may close out the contract prior to expiry and pay or receive the difference in the two prices. In futures markets you always trade with a formal exchange, every participant has the same counterpart.\n\nA swap is an agreement whereby a floating price is exchanged for a fixed price over a specified period. It is a financial arrangement that involves no transfer of physical oil; both parties settle their contractual obligations by means of a transfer of cash. The agreement defines the volume, duration, fixed price, and reference index for the floating price (e.g., ICE Brent). Differences are settled in cash for specific periods usually monthly, but sometimes quarterly, semi-annually or annually.\n\nSwaps are also known as \"contracts for differences\" and as \"fixed-for-floating\" contracts, terms that summarize the essence of these financial arrangements. The amount of cash is determined as the difference between the price struck at the initiation of the swap and the settlement of the index. In a swap contract, you trade with your counterpart (a company/institution/individual) and take risk on their capacity to pay you any amount that may be due at settlement. Thus, investors should carefully enter into a swap agreement with other party considering all these parameters.\n\nThe first energy derivatives covered petroleum products and emerged after the 1970s energy crisis and the fundamental restructuring of the world petroleum market that followed. At roughly the same time, energy products began trading on derivatives exchange with crude oil, heating oil, and gasoline futures on NYMEX and gas oil and Brent Crude on the International Petroleum Exchange (IPE).\n\nThere are three principal applications for the energy derivative markets:\n\nThis describes the process used by corporations, governments, and financial institutions to reduce their risk exposures to the movement of oil prices. The classic example is the activity of an airline company, jet fuel consumption represents up to 23% of all costs and fluctuations can affect airlines significantly. The airline seeks to protect itself from rises in the jet fuel price in the future. In order to do this, it purchases a swap or a call option linked to the jet fuel market from an institution prepared to make prices in these instruments. Any subsequent rise in the jet price for the period is protected by the derivative transaction. A cash settlement at the expiry of the contract will fund the financial loss incurred by any rise in the physical jet fuel, allowing the companies to better measure future cash flows.\n\nThere are limitations to be considered when using energy derivatives to manage risk. A key consideration is that there is a limited range of derivatives available for trading. Continuing from the earlier example, if that company uses a specialized form of jet fuel, for which no derivatives are freely available, they may wish to create an approximate hedge, by buying derivatives based on the price of a similar fuel, or even crude oil. When these hedges are constructed, there is always the risk of unanticipated movement between the item actually being hedged (crude oil), and the source of risk the hedge is intended to minimize (the specialized jet fuel).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31795980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31795980", "title": "Energy in Libya", "text": "Energy in Libya\n\nEnergy in Libya describes energy and electricity production, consumption, and import in Libya. The petroleum industry is the primary engine of the Libyan economy.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2008, Libyan energy production increased by 21.5% and energy exports increased by 27%. Domestic energy consumption in Libya was likely driven by industry and population growth. During this period, according to the International Energy Agency, the world population grew 5.3%, and the Libyan population grew 9.4%. As a net exporter of oil, Libya's energy production was also stimulated by growing populations in countries like Egypt (12.2% growth in that period), Yemen (13.4%), Sudan (16.4%), Saudi Arabia (2.9%), and Italy (3%).\n\nLibya is a member of OPEC. In 2007, Libya was the world's 10th largest oil exporter, with 73 Mt in oil exports. As of 2009, Europe's share of Libya's oil exports was 78%. Domestically, the primary energy use in Libya was 237 TWh and 37 TWh per million persons.\n\nThe National Oil Corporation is the state oil company of Libya. The biggest oil producers in Libya are Eni, an Italian company, and Repsol YPF, a Spanish one. Other major producers in the country include BASF, Petrobras, Gazprom, Exxon Mobil, Pertamina, Nippon Oil, Sirte Oil Company, BP, Hess Corporation, JAPEX, and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation.\n\nIn 2010, 28% of Libyan oil exports went to Italy (over 284 barrels a day). In 2009, Europe's share of total Libyan oil exports were around 78%. Other importers in 2009 included China (10%), the United States (5%), and Brazil (3%).\n\n"}
{"id": "46687715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46687715", "title": "Eric Guilyardi", "text": "Eric Guilyardi\n\nEric Guilyardi is a climate scientist, professor in the department of meteorology at the University of Reading and directeur de recherche CNRS at LOCEAN at Institute Pierre Simon Laplace (IPSL) in Paris, France. He is an expert of the El Niño phenomenon. He has been a Lead Author for the IPCC AR5 report.\n"}
{"id": "19945074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19945074", "title": "False sunrise", "text": "False sunrise\n\nA false sunrise is any of several atmospheric optical phenomena in which the Sun appears to have risen, but is actually still some distance below the horizon. A number of different atmospheric conditions can be responsible for this effect, all of which divert the sunlight in such a way as to allow it to reach the observer's eye, thereby giving the impression that the light comes directly from the Sun itself. The spread of light can sometimes be deceivingly similar to a true sun.\n\nSeveral atmospheric phenomena that may alternatively be called a \"false sunrise\" are:\n\n\nThe term \"false sunrise\" should not be confused with \"false dawn\", which is a term sometimes used to refer to the zodiacal light.\n\n"}
{"id": "3280844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3280844", "title": "Fictional geography", "text": "Fictional geography\n\nFictional geography is the use of maps, text and imagery to create lands and territories to accompany works of fiction. Depending on the completeness and complexity of the work, varying media, levels of collaboration and a number of other factors, the depiction of geographical components to works of fiction can range from simple drawings of a small area as in \"The Twenty-One Balloons\" by William Pène du Bois to an entire fictional world as in \"The Lord of the Rings\" by Tolkien or even an entire galaxy as in \"Star Trek\" and its variants.\n\nOne of the most notable examples of fictional geography is that created by J. R. R. Tolkien to produce the Shire and its expansion to include all of Middle-earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "4014603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4014603", "title": "Flying and gliding animals", "text": "Flying and gliding animals\n\nA number of animals have evolved aerial locomotion, either by powered flight or by gliding. Flying and gliding animals (\"volant\" animals) have evolved separately many times, without any single ancestor. Flight has evolved at least four times, in the insects, pterosaurs, birds, and bats. Gliding has evolved on many more occasions. Usually the development is to aid canopy animals in getting from tree to tree, although there are other possibilities. Gliding, in particular, has evolved among rainforest animals, especially in the rainforests in Asia (most especially Borneo) where the trees are tall and widely spaced. Several species of aquatic animals, and a few amphibians and reptiles have also evolved to acquire this gliding flight ability, typically as a means of evading predators.\n\nAnimal aerial locomotion can be divided into two categories—powered and unpowered. In unpowered modes of locomotion, the animal uses aerodynamics forces exerted on the body due to wind or falling through the air. In powered flight, the animal uses muscular power to generate aerodynamic forces. Animals using unpowered aerial locomotion cannot maintain altitude and speed due to unopposed drag, while animals using powered flight can maintain steady, level flight as long as their muscles are capable of doing so.\n\nThese modes of locomotion typically require an animal start from a raised location, converting that potential energy into kinetic energy and using aerodynamic forces to control trajectory and angle of descent. Energy is continually lost to drag without being replaced, thus these methods of locomotion have limited range and duration.\n\nPowered flight has evolved only four times (first in insects, then in pterosaurs, birds and bats). It uses muscular power to generate aerodynamic forces and to replace energy lost to drag.\n\nBallooning and soaring are not powered by muscle, but rather by external aerodynamic sources of energy: the wind and rising thermals, respectively. Both can continue as long as the source of external power is present. Soaring is typically only seen in species capable of powered flight, as it requires extremely large wings.\n\nMany species will use multiple of these modes at various times; a hawk will use powered flight to rise, then soar on thermals, then descend via free-fall to catch its prey.\n\nWhile gliding occurs independently from powered flight, it has some ecological advantages of its own. Gliding is a very energy-efficient way of travelling from tree to tree. An argument made is that many gliding animals eat low energy foods such as leaves and are restricted to gliding because of this, whereas flying animals eat more high energy foods such as fruits, nectar, and insects. In contrast to flight, gliding has evolved independently many times (more than a dozen times among extant vertebrates); however these groups have not radiated nearly as much as have groups of flying animals.\n\nWorldwide, the distribution of gliding animals is uneven as most inhabit rain forests in Southeast Asia. (Despite seemingly suitable rain forest habitats, few gliders are found in India or New Guinea and none in Madagascar.) Additionally, a variety of gliding vertebrates are found in Africa, a family of hylids (flying frogs) lives in South America and several species of gliding squirrels are found in the forests of northern Asia and North America. Various factors produce these disparities. In the forests of Southeast Asia, the dominant canopy trees (usually dipterocarps) are taller than the canopy trees of the other forests. A higher start provides a competitive advantage of further glides and farther travel. Gliding predators may more efficiently search for prey. The lower abundance of insect and small vertebrate prey for carnivorous animals (such as lizards) in Asian forests may be a factor. In Australia, many mammals (and all mammalian gliders) possess, to some extent, prehensile tails.\n\nPowered flight has evolved unambiguously only four times—birds, bats, pterosaurs, and insects. In contrast to gliding, which has evolved more frequently but typically gives rise to only a handful of species, all three extant groups of powered flyers have a huge number of species, suggesting that flight is a very successful strategy once evolved. Bats, after rodents, have the most species of any mammalian order, about 20% of all mammalian species. Birds have the most species of any class of terrestrial vertebrates. Finally, insects (most of which fly at some point in their life cycle) have more species than all other animal groups combined.\n\nThe evolution of flight is one of the most striking and demanding in animal evolution, and has attracted the attention of many prominent scientists and generated many theories. Additionally, because flying animals tend to be small and have a low mass (both of which increase the surface-area-to-mass ratio), they tend to fossilize infrequently and poorly compared to the larger, heavier-boned terrestrial species they share habitat with. Fossils of flying animals tend to be confined to exceptional fossil deposits formed under highly specific circumstances, resulting in a generally poor fossil record, and a particular lack of transitional forms. Furthermore, as fossils do not preserve behavior or muscle, it can be difficult to discriminate between a poor flyer and a good glider.\n\nInsects were the first to evolve flight, approximately 350 million years ago. The developmental origin of the insect wing remains in dispute, as does the purpose prior to true flight. One suggestion is that wings initially were used to catch the wind for small insects that live on the surface of the water, while another is that they functioned in parachuting, then gliding, then flight for originally arboreal insects.\n\nPterosaurs were the next to evolve flight, approximately 228 million years ago. These reptiles were close relatives of the dinosaurs (and sometimes mistakenly considered dinosaurs by laymen), and reached enormous sizes, with some of the last forms being the largest flying animals ever to inhabit the Earth, having wingspans of over 9.1 m (30 ft). However, they spanned a large range of sizes, down to a 250 mm (10 in) wingspan in \"Nemicolopterus\".\n\nBirds have an extensive fossil record, along with many forms documenting both their evolution from small theropod dinosaurs and the numerous bird-like forms of theropod which did not survive the mass extinction at the end of the Cretaceous. Indeed, \"Archaeopteryx\" is arguably the most famous transitional fossil in the world, both due to its mix of reptilian and avian anatomy and the luck of being discovered only two years after Darwin's publication of \"On the Origin of Species\". However, the ecology and this transition is considerably more contentious, with various scientists supporting either a \"trees down\" origin (in which an arboreal ancestor evolved gliding, then flight) or a \"ground up\" origin (in which a fast-running terrestrial ancestor used wings for a speed boost and to help catch prey).\n\nBats are the most recent to evolve (about 60 million years ago), most likely from a fluttering ancestor, though their poor fossil record has hindered more detailed study.\n\nOnly a few animals are known to have specialised in soaring: the larger of the extinct pterosaurs, and some large birds. Powered flight is very energetically expensive for large animals, but for soaring their size is an advantage, as it allows them a low wing loading, that is a large wing areas relative to their weight, which maximizes lift. Soaring is very energetically efficient.\n\nDuring a free-fall with no aerodynamic forces, the object accelerates due to gravity, resulting in increasing velocity as the object descends. During parachuting, animals use the aerodynamic forces on their body to counteract the force or gravity. Any object moving through air experiences a drag force that is proportion to surface area and to velocity squared, and this force will partially counter the force of gravity, slowing the animal's descent to a safer speed. If this drag is oriented at an angle to the vertical, the animal's trajectory will gradually become more horizontal, and it will cover horizontal as well as vertical distance. Smaller adjustments can allow turning or other maneuvers. This can allow a parachuting animal to move from a high location on one tree to a lower location on another tree nearby.\n\nDuring gliding, lift plays an increased role. Like drag, lift is proportional to velocity squared. Gliding animals will typically leap or drop from high locations such as trees, just as in parachuting, and as gravitational acceleration increases their speed, the aerodynamic forces also increase. Because the animal can utilize lift and drag to generate greater aerodynamic force, it can glide at a shallower angle than parachuting animals, allowing it to cover greater horizontal distance in the same loss of altitude, and reach trees further away.\n\nUnlike most air vehicles, in which the objects that generate lift (wings) and thrust (engine/propeller) are separate and the wings remained fixed, flying animals use their wings to generate both lift and thrust by moving them relative to the body. This has made the flight of organisms considerably harder to understand than that of vehicles, as it involves varying speeds, angles, orientations, areas, and flow patterns over the wings.\n\nA bird or bat flying through the air at a constant speed moves its wings up and down (usually with some fore-aft movement as well). Because the animal is in motion, there is some airflow relative to its body which, combined with the velocity of its wings, generates a faster airflow moving over the wing. This will generate lift force vector pointing forwards and upwards, and a drag force vector pointing rearwards and upwards. The upwards components of these counteract gravity, keeping the body in the air, while the forward component provides thrust to counteract both the drag from the wing and from the body as a whole. Pterosaur flight likely worked in a similar manner, though no living pterosaurs remain for study.\n\nInsect flight is considerably different, due to their small size, rigid wings, and other anatomical differences. Turbulence and vortices play a much larger role in insect flight, making it even more complex and difficult to study than the flight of vertebrates. There are two basic aerodynamic models of insect flight. Most insects use a method that creates a spiralling leading edge vortex. Some very small insects use the fling-and-clap or Weis-Fogh mechanism in which the wings clap together above the insect's body and then fling apart. As they fling open, the air gets sucked in and creates a vortex over each wing. This bound vortex then moves across the wing and, in the clap, acts as the starting vortex for the other wing. Circulation and lift are increased, at the price of wear and tear on the wings.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGliding has evolved independently in two families of tree frogs, the Old World Rhacophoridae and the New World Hylidae. Within each lineage there are a range of gliding abilities from non-gliding, to parachuting, to full gliding.\nSeveral lizards and snakes are capable of gliding:\n\n\n\nBats are the only mammal with flapping or powered flight. A few other mammals glide or parachute; the best known are flying squirrels and flying lemurs.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13317539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13317539", "title": "Fuji Bamboo Garden", "text": "Fuji Bamboo Garden\n\nThe Fuji Bamboo Garden (富士竹類植物園 Fuji Chikurui Shokubutsuen?) is Japan’s only botanical garden specializing in bamboo. Fuji Bamboo Garden is located in Nagaizumi, which is part of Japan's Shizuoka Prefecture (southwest of Tokyo). The garden is located at the base of Mount Fuji, from where the garden's name originated. The garden occupies over 2 acres of land. Fuji Bamboo Garden is said to be the world’s largest collection of bamboo, holding more than 450 varieties of bamboo from all around the world. The garden contains approximately 100,000 bamboo plants. The types of bamboo in the garden range from black bamboo to moso bamboo. The garden has benches to sit on, as well as bamboo sheds each holding a special type of bamboo.\n\nFuji Bamboo Garden is not only a garden, but also has a museum full of bamboo art and history brought from all over the world, such as musical instruments from Indonesia, woven bamboo baskets from Africa, blankets made from bamboo, bamboo fishing gear and even furniture made from bamboo. The garden also offers a small gift shop.\n\nThe garden was founded in 1955, although bamboo keepers were said to have started planting the garden sometime around 1951. \n\n\nOfficial website \n"}
{"id": "30721856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30721856", "title": "GMA News TV", "text": "GMA News TV\n\nGMA News TV (GNTV) (visually rendered in its logo in all capital letters) is a commercial broadcast television network in the Philippines. It is owned and operated by Citynet Network Marketing and Productions Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of GMA Network, Inc., together with ZOE Broadcasting Network Inc. (ZOE TV) of Jesus Is Lord Church leader Eddie Villanueva as its main content provider. Launched on February 28, 2011, GNTV is the second television network joint-ventured between ZOE and GMA after its predecessor QTV, which in turn was launched in 2005. Its flagship station is DZOE-TV Channel 11, a frequency currently owned by ZOE Broadcasting, and it is beamed through provincial relay stations run by GMA Network. Its studios are located at the 22/F Strata 2000 Building, F. Ortigas Jr. Road (formerly Emerald Avenue), Ortigas Center, Pasig City and GMA Network Center, EDSA corner Timog Avenue, Diliman, Quezon City; with its transmitter facilities (also owned by ZOE-TV) located at GMA Tower of Power, Tandang Sora, Barangay Culiat, Quezon City.\n\nGMA News TV was created as a replacement for \"Q\", a network which primarily featured imported dramas and lifestyle-oriented programming aimed towards women. Both GMA News TV and Q are products of an agreement between ZOE-TV and GMA's subsidiary Citynet in 2005, allowing the latter to lease the entire airtime of ZOE-TV Channel 11, in exchange of upgrading the former's facilities and a offpeak timeslot for its programs on Channel 11 and its affiliate GMA Network. GMA News TV was unveiled on February 7, 2011, and Q was discontinued on February 20, 2011 in preparation for the launch of the new service, which occurred on February 28, 2011.\n\nMost of GMA News TV's programming consists of news, public affairs and sports programming produced by GMA News and Public Affairs including entertainment, lifestyle, cooking shows, talk shows, infotainment, local and foreign drama, comedy and reality series, travel, foreign animated series, infomercials and local and foreign movie blocks and additional programming produced by GMA Entertainment TV carried over from Q.\n\nAs part of its agreement to operate DZOE-TV as a carrier of GMA News TV (dating back to the establishment of Q), it also airs religious programming produced by ZOE during off-peak hours.\n\nLater in 2011, GMA would also launch a 24-hour international feed of GMA News TV, as a compliment to its two other international channels (GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV). It began to be offered as a preview channel in Australia on FetchTV, IPS/AccessTV in Japan, GUdTV in Guam and on OSN, with an official launch planned for the third quarter of 2011.\n\nGMA News TV International was officially launched on UBI World TV on December 1, 2011. In May 2012, Canadian IPTV provider MTS TV added GMA News TV International, becoming its first Canadian carrier. In November 2012, Optik TV added the channel to their lineup. Additionally, GMA News TV international is now also available in Singtel TV Pay TV Customers in Singapore Channel 690 in SD, on ABNXcess Pay TV Customers in Malaysia Channel 731 in SD and also on Astro\n\nUnlike its domestic counterpart, programs on GMA News TV International are air tape-delayed, except for selected special events such as live coverage of Day 1 of Eleksyon 2013.\n\nIn Hong Kong, GMA News TV International Launch in Now TV On June 2, 2015.\n\nGMA News TV can be seen via regular free-to-air television on Channel 11 in Metro Manila area, and Channel 27 in Cebu and Davao. Aside from GNTV's main free-to-air analog signal, GMA News TV can also be seen on a must carry basis on all cable and satellite TV providers nationwide. This channel is also included as a digital subchannel which can be seen on 07.02 (LCN; Channel 27 Physical frequency) of GMA Network's ISDB-T DTTV broadcast available in Manila, Channel 38 Physical frequency in Baguio, Channel 26 Physical frequency in Cebu, and Channel 37 Physical frequency in Davao, using digital set-top boxes.\n\n\n\nhttp://pinoytambayanlive.net/"}
{"id": "11075243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11075243", "title": "Ganga Talao", "text": "Ganga Talao\n\nGanga Talao (commonly known as Grand Bassin) is a crater lake situated in a secluded mountain area in the district of Savanne, deep in the heart of Mauritius. It is about 1800 feet above sea level. The first group of pilgrims who went to Ganga Talao were from the village of Triolet and it was led by Pandit Giri Gossayne from Terre Rouge in 1898.\n\nIt is considered the most sacred Hindu place in Mauritius\n\nThe Sagar Shiv Mandir is located on the bank of the lake and is dedicated to Lord Shiva. There are temples dedicated to other Gods including Lord Hanuman, Goddess Ganga, and Lord Ganesh along the Grand Bassin. During Shivaratri, many pilgrims in Mauritius walk bare feet from their homes to the lake.\n\nGanga Talao literally means the 'Lake of Ganga'; an allusion to the Grand Bassin's symbolic connection with the Indian river Ganga (Ganges)\n\nIn 1866, when Pandi Sanjibonlal came back to Mauritius after his first indentured contract was over, he came as a merchant via Reunion Island and brought with him the souvenir of Grand Bassin and cloth from India to be sold to the resident labourers. With the money gained, he bought the mansion of Mr Langlois at Triolet and materialised his dream of making Grand bassin a pilgrimage place. The Hindus believe firmly that they should, as often as possible, visit and take a bath in the Ganga to celebrate the main festival of Shiva. Panditji had already won esteem of the French as a landowner, so he easily got permission to go on his project.\n\nDuring his stay as indentured labourer he had spotted the divine appeal of Grand Bassin. He converted the existing building into a temple and after some problems with the law he was allowed to proceed with the changes. Some artisans who were engaged in building Sockalingam Meenatchee Ammen Kovil in Port Louis helped in giving the temple the present shape. He went to India and brought back a huge Shivalingam, along with other deities, and had them consecrated in the sanctorium. The only temple in Mauritius where Bhairo Baba (a deity in the form of a dog) is consecrated inside a temple along with Shiva parivar. He was the first to start the pilgrimage towards Grand Bassin following the consecration in 1866. The consecration was a huge festival where he donated land, cart with oxen and huge amount of money to the officiating priests (Caturvedi and others from Plaine des Papayes.\n\nOthers could not go save his servants because the labourers were not allowed to take leave for religious purposes. Through word of mouth all labourers stated their wish to participate. He used his contacts and requested for permission. A first delegation headed by himself and some other rich retired labourers including Jhummun Gosagne Napal accompanied him in 1895, following the route he had already made in previous years when only his close friends have been there. The first halt was in Port Louis Madras road where he possessed a house. From there the next resting place was Vacoas at Padarath Ojha's place and then the procession with jhal and dholak and small kanvars moved to Grand Bassin. This was the nth time that Shivaratri was celebrated at Triolet under the priestship of Pandit Sanjibonlal.\n\nIn the meantime, other folk tales were added to that place and it got the name of Paritalao. It was believed that fairies used to come and dance during the night there. So, it is Sanajibonlall also popularly known as Mousse Langlois ke Baba who put dreams of Ganga in the subconscious mind of Jhummun Gossagne and helped to make the festival look as it is celebrated today. Later Prime Minister Ramgoolam brought Ganga water from Gomukh and mixed it with the already pure water of Grand Bassin and renamed it Ganga talao.\n\nIn 1897 Shri Jhummon Giri Gosagne Napal, a ‘pujari’ (priest) of Triolet together with a 'pujari' priest from Goodlands Sri Mohanparsad saw in a dream the water of the lake of Grand Bassin springing from the ‘Jahnvi’, thus forming part of Ganga. The news of the dream spread rapidly and created quite a stir in the Hindu community. The following year, pilgrims trekked to Grand Bassin to collect its water to offer to Lord Shiva on the occasion of Maha Shivaratri. The lake was then known as the ‘Pari Talao’. In 1998 it was declared a \"sacred lake\". In 1972, some holy water from the Ganges River was mixed establishing a symbolic link with the sacred Indian River and the lake was renamed Ganga Talao.\n\nDuring the Maha Shivaratri most of the devotees leave their homes and start a journey to Grand Bassin on foot. It has been a tradition that volunteer people offer foods and drinks to the pilgrims \"(the devotees)\".\n\nMangal Mahadev is -tall statue of the Hindu god, Shiva, standing with his trident at the entrance of Ganga Talao. Inaugurated in 2007, it is the tallest statue in Mauritius and a faithful copy of the Shiva statue in Sursagar Lake in Vadodara,Gujarat in India. \n\nThe statues are of 108 ft tall. Durga Pooja and Navaratri are celebrated very grandly with many Hindu Mauritians assembling near the statue for the grand celebrations. \n\nShiva Ratri is also celebrated very grandly and it is a national holiday. Very auspicious day to hindus at Mauritius. \n"}
{"id": "2654447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2654447", "title": "Garrigue", "text": "Garrigue\n\nGarigue or phrygana is a type of low, soft-leaved scrubland ecoregion and plant community in the Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and scrub biome.\n\nIt is found on limestone soils in southern France and around the Mediterranean Basin, generally near the seacoast where the moderated Mediterranean climate provides annual summer drought.\n\nThe term has also found its way into haute cuisine, suggestive of the resinous flavours of a garigue shrubland.\n\nUNEP World Conservation Monitoring Centre described garigue as \"discontinuous bushy associations of the Mediterranean calcareous plateaus, which have relatively alkaline soils. It is often composed of kermes oak, lavender, thyme, and white cistus. There may be a few isolated trees.\"\n\nGarigue is discontinuous with widely spaced bush associations with open spaces, and is often extensive. It is associated with limestone and base rich soils, and calcium associated plants.\n\nAside from dense thickets of kermes oak that punctuate the garigue landscape, juniper and stunted holm oaks are the typical trees; aromatic lime-tolerant shrubs such as lavender, sage, rosemary, wild thyme and \"Artemisia\" are common garigue plants.\n\nThe aromatic oils and soluble monoterpenes of such herbs leached into garigue soils from leaf litter have been connected with plant allelopathy, which asserts the dominance of a plant over its neighbors, especially annuals, and contributes to the characteristic open spacing and restricted flora in a garigue. The fines (charred wood and smoke residues, or charcoal dust) of periodic brush fires also have had an effect on the patterning and composition of the garigues. Clear summer skies and intense solar radiation have induced the evolution of protective physiologies: the familiar glaucous, grayish-green of garigue landscapes is produced by the protective white hairs and light-diffusing, pebbled surfaces of many leaves typical of garigue plants.\n\n\"garigue\" is a common general word for the shrubland habitat ecosystems in southern France along with maquis, which are known elsewhere in the Mediterranean region as matorral and \"tomillares\" in Spain, macchia in Italy, \"phrygana\" in Greece, \"garig\" in Croatia, and \"batha\" in Israel.\n\nIn California a similar Mediterranean climate ecoregion is named chaparral; in Chile it is named the Chilean matorral; in South Africa it is named fynbos; and in Australia it is named mallee. All are in the Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and scrub biome.\n\nBoth garigue and maquis are associated with the Mediterranean climate within the Mediterranean region. However, the distinction is not clear and term use is inconsistent.\n\nMaquis shrubland is broadly similar to garigue, but the vegetation is more dense, being composed of numerous closely spaced shrubs. Maquis is associated with siliceous (acid) soils, unlike the relatively alkaline calcareous soils of the garigue. Its plant communities are often suites associated with holm oak. Calcifuges such as \"Erica\" and \"Calluna\" are present in the maquis ecoregion.\n\nDeforestation of the indigenous oak forest since the Late Bronze Age, for cultivation of olives, vines and grain, the introduction of sheep and especially goats and charcoal-making for heat and iron-working, exposed the land surface to weathering and resulted in erosion of the topsoil. The wild garigue, then, is a man-formed landscape. The intensity of grazing pressure has had a direct response in the ecotope, reflected today in the decline of goat-pasturing.\n\nFirst cited in the French language in 1546, the singular word \"garigue\" is borrowed from the Provençal dialect of Occitan \"garriga,\" equivalent to old French \"jarrie.\" Etymologist Oscar Bloch states that it is most likely related to the Gascon \"carroc,\" meaning \"rock\" and to the Germanic Swiss \"Karren,\" a kind of sedimentary rock. These related words could stem from a supposed \"carra,\" or \"rock,\" which could be a remnant of a pre-Latin language, to judge from its geographic distribution even before Celtic times, and possibly akin to Basque \"*karr-\", \"harri\", 'rock'. It is thought that Gallic and Latin incorporated these words and then transmitted them in various forms to the Romance languages.\n\nThe dense, thrifty growth of garigue flora has recommended many of its shrubs and sub-shrubs for uses as ornamental plants in traditional and drought tolerant gardens. Many shrubs and flowering perennials of the garigue are mainstays of the English \"mixed border\" of herbaceous and woody plants found in English gardens, and around the world, though often grown under cooler, moister conditions.\n\nSome have become invasive species in the Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and scrub biome's other ecoregions beyond the Mediterranean Basin on other continents, including the California chaparral and woodlands.\n\nGrapes that are grown in the \"garigues\" region of France are said to produce wines with a \"barnyard\" or \"earthy\" tone, or \"the herbal scent of lavender that fills the hills of Provence in the summer time.\" Some wines bottled in Southern France contain the word \"garigues\" as part of their appellation or label name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7940460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7940460", "title": "Global Change Master Directory", "text": "Global Change Master Directory\n\nThe Global Change Master Directory is a directory of Earth Science data sets and related tools/services, many of which are targeted for the use, analysis, and display of the data. The directory holds more than 28,000 data set descriptions, known as DIFs (Directory Interchange Format). This format is compatible with the Federal Geographic Data Committee's (FGDC) standard and the international ISO 19115 standard. More than 2,500 descriptions of tools and services, known as SERFs (Services Entry Resource Format), are also available to users. The purpose of the directory is to provide users with information on the availability of data and services that will meet their needs, along with efficient access to those data and services. Links are provided, when available, to connect directly to the data or services of interest.\n\nThe directory is part of NASA's Earth Observing System Data and Information System (EOSDIS) and also serves as NASA's contribution to the Committee on Earth Observation Satellites (CEOS), through which it is also known as the International Directory Network (IDN). The international participants contribute descriptions of data and services that are held around the world and have provided valuable guidance in the development and direction of the project over the years.\n\nThe directory also offers an online metadata authoring tools for those wishing to share knowledge of available data. One of the cornerstones to effective searches within the directory is twelve sets of controlled keywords that assist in normalizing the search. The development of these keywords was initiated over a decade ago. Currently, over 7,000 keywords are controlled, with new sets created for better search refinements, as time permits. The keyword sets are widely used throughout the world and are being translated into many languages. Within the GCMD and the IDN, these controlled keywords can be used in combination with a full-text search engine and also for search refinements.\n\nIn addition, virtual subsets of the directory can be created as \"portals\" for groups wishing to identify their contributions or for those wishing to select a subset for their special interest group. The directory currently receives approximately 8 million hits per month.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57849454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57849454", "title": "Goianides Ocean", "text": "Goianides Ocean\n\nThe Goianides Ocean is an ocean that existed in South America in Neoproterozoic times. It separated the Paranapanema block and the São Francisco Craton. Its closure started with a magmatic arc forming (now seen as granitoids of the Guaxupé and Socorro Nappes) and eventually gave rise to the Brasiliano orogeny.\n"}
{"id": "11568347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11568347", "title": "Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy", "text": "Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy\n\nGreenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy is a 2007 book by Australian academic Mark Diesendorf. The book puts forward a set\nof policies and strategies for implementing the most promising clean energy technologies by all spheres of government, business and community organisations. \"Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy\" suggests that a mix of efficient energy use, renewable energy sources and natural gas (as a transitional fuel) offers a clean and feasible energy future for Australia.\n\nThe book is a comprehensive guide to sustainable energy systems and is structured in three sections:\n\nDiesendorf argues that:\n\n\nEarly in his career, Mark Diesendorf was a principal research scientist with CSIRO where he was involved in early research on integrating wind power into electricity grids. This issue is discussed in some detail in \"Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy\".\n\nDiesendorf explains that large-scale wind power is not \"intermittent\", because it does not start up or switch off instantaneously. In practice, the variations in thousands of wind turbines, spread out over several different sites and wind regimes, are smoothed. As the distance between sites increases, the correlation between wind speeds measured at those sites, decreases. This has been confirmed recently by studies conducted by Graham Sinden from Oxford University:\n[Graham Sinden] analysed over 30 years of hourly wind speed data from 66 sites spread out over the United Kingdom. He found that the correlation coefficient of wind power fell from 0.6 at 200 km to 0.25 at 600 km separation (a perfect correlation would have a coefficient equal to 1.0.) There were no hours in the data set where wind speed was below the cut-in wind speed of a modern wind turbine throughout the United Kingdom, and low wind speed events affecting more than 90 per cent of the United Kingdom had an average recurrent rate of only one hour per year.\nDiesendorf goes on to say that every conventional power station breaks down unexpectedly from time to time, causing an immediate loss of all its power. That is true intermittency, according to Diesendorf, and it is a particular type of variability that switches between full power and no power. Once a conventional power station has broken down, it may be offline for weeks, much longer than windless periods.\n\n\nDick Nichols, in \"Green Left\", states that \"Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy\" brings together much useful material about global warming and possible solutions:\n\nNichols suggests that if there’s one serious shortcoming in \"Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy\" it’s \"a failure to consistently trace what rate of implementation of energy efficiency and uptake of renewable energy sources is necessary to confront the greenhouse emergency\".\n\nPatrick O'Neill, in \"Chain Reaction\", suggests that \"Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy\" is a comprehensive guide to sustainable energy systems, and that the book is \"simply a joy to read\". O'Neill explains that whilst an immense amount of technical and scientific detail is presented, the language is simple and the book is well laid out. It also covers often ignored areas of the sustainable energy discussion such as population issues, morality, social justice and equity. In conclusion, O'Neill states that the book is a \"wonderfully energising piece of sedition\", which calls for a \"coordinated national strategy for non-violent action\".\n\nGeorge Wilkenfield, in \"Australian Review of Public Affairs\", is more critical and suggests the book feels \"strangely anachronistic\", partly because it treats climate change as an issue that can be resolved through grassroots activism or by the opposition of protest movements to unjust regimes. Wilkenfield explains that \"this rather misses the point that the continuing rise in global greenhouse gas emissions is not a byproduct of injustice or repression but of economic freedom in the West and the unrelenting economic growth by which repressive regimes such as China’s buy legitimacy. In general, very few people want to be freed from consumption—most want the freedom to consume even more\". Wilkenfield goes on to say that Diesendorf misses some of the dynamics of consumption: energy use gives people comfort, speed, privacy and convenience. Many people actually enjoy driving and like their cars, and would continue to use them as long as they could afford to, even if public transport were available.\n\nNevertheless, in the end, Wilkenfield concedes that \"Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy\" is very suitable as a textbook, or as a handbook for activists, journalists or the more committed reader who is not afraid of numbers.\n\nMark Diesendorf teaches and researches ecologically sustainable development and greenhouse solutions at the Institute of Environmental Studies at the University of NSW. Previously he has been a principal research scientist at CSIRO, professor of environmental science at UTS and vice-president of the Australia New Zealand Society for Ecological Economics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "900160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=900160", "title": "Internal wave", "text": "Internal wave\n\nInternal waves are gravity waves that oscillate within a fluid medium, rather than on its surface. To exist, the fluid must be stratified: the density must decrease continuously or discontinuously with depth/height due to changes, for example, in temperature and/or salinity. If the density changes over a small vertical distance (as in the case of the thermocline in lakes and oceans or an atmospheric inversion), the waves propagate horizontally like surface waves, but do so at slower speeds as determined by the density difference of the fluid below and above the interface. If the density changes continuously, the waves can propagate vertically as well as horizontally through the fluid.\n\nInternal waves, also called internal gravity waves, go by many other names depending upon the fluid stratification, generation mechanism, amplitude, and influence of external forces. If propagating horizontally along an interface where the density rapidly decreases with height, they are specifically called interfacial (internal) waves. If the interfacial waves are large amplitude they are called internal solitary waves or internal solitons. If moving vertically through the atmosphere where substantial changes in air density influences their dynamics, they are called anelastic (internal) waves. If generated by flow over topography, they are called Lee waves or mountain waves. If the mountain waves break aloft, they can result in strong warm winds at the ground known as Chinook winds (in North America) or Foehn winds (in Europe). If generated in the ocean by tidal flow over submarine ridges or the continental shelf, they are called internal tides. If they evolve slowly compared to the Earth's rotational frequency so that their dynamics are influenced by the Coriolis effect, they are called inertia gravity waves or, simply, inertial waves. Internal waves are usually distinguished from Rossby waves, which are influenced by the change of Coriolis frequency with latitude.\n\nAn internal wave can readily be observed in the kitchen by slowly tilting back and forth a bottle of salad dressing - the waves exist at the interface between oil and vinegar.\n\nAtmospheric internal waves can be visualized by wave clouds: at the wave crests air rises and cools in the relatively lower pressure, which can result in water vapor condensation if the relative humidity is close to 100%. Clouds that reveal internal waves launched by flow over hills are called lenticular clouds because of their lens-like appearance. Less dramatically, a train of internal waves can be visualized by rippled cloud patterns described as herringbone sky or mackerel sky. The outflow of cold air from a thunderstorm can launch large amplitude internal solitary waves at an atmospheric inversion. In northern Australia, these result in Morning Glory clouds, used by some daredevils to glide along like a surfer riding an ocean wave. Satellites over Australia and elsewhere reveal these waves can span many hundreds of kilometers.\nUndulations of the oceanic thermocline can be visualized by satellite because the waves increase the surface roughness where the horizontal flow converges, and this increases the scattering of sunlight (as in the image at the top of this page showing of waves generated by tidal flow through the Strait of Gibraltar).\n\nAccording to Archimedes principle, the weight of an immersed object is reduced by the weight of fluid it displaces. This holds for a fluid parcel of density formula_1 surrounded by an ambient fluid of density formula_2. Its weight per unit volume is formula_3, in which formula_4 is the acceleration of gravity. Dividing by a characteristic density, formula_5, gives the definition of the reduced gravity:\n\nIf formula_7, formula_8 is positive though generally much smaller than formula_4. Because water is much more dense than air, the displacement of water by air from a surface gravity wave feels nearly the full force of gravity (formula_10). The displacement of the thermocline of a lake, which separates warmer surface from cooler deep water, feels the buoyancy force expressed through the reduced gravity. For example, the density difference between ice water and room temperature water is 0.002 the characteristic density of water. So the reduced gravity is 0.2% that of gravity. It is for this reason that internal waves move in slow-motion relative to surface waves.\n\nWhereas the reduced gravity is the key variable describing buoyancy for interfacial internal waves, a different quantity is used to describe buoyancy in continuously stratified fluid whose density varies with height as formula_11. Suppose a water column is in hydrostatic equilibrium and a small parcel of fluid with density formula_12 is displaced vertically by a small distance formula_13. The buoyant restoring force results in a vertical acceleration, given by \n\nThis is the spring equation whose solution predicts oscillatory vertical displacement about formula_15 in time about with frequency given by the buoyancy frequency:\n\nThe above argument can be generalized to predict the frequency, formula_17, of a fluid parcel that oscillates along a line at an angle formula_18 to the vertical:\n\nThis is one way to write the dispersion relation for internal waves whose lines of constant phase lie at an angle formula_18 to the vertical. In particular, this shows that the buoyancy frequency is an upper limit of allowed internal wave frequencies.\n\nThe theory for internal waves differs in the description of interfacial waves and vertically propagating internal waves. These are treated separately below.\n\nIn the simplest case, one considers a two-layer fluid in which a slab of fluid with uniform density formula_21 overlies a slab of fluid with uniform density formula_22. Arbitrarily the interface between the two layers is taken to be situated at formula_23 The fluid in the upper and lower layers are assumed to be irrotational. So the velocity in each layer is given by the gradient of a velocity potential, formula_24 and the potential itself satisfies Laplace's equation:\n\nAssuming the domain is unbounded and two-dimensional (in the formula_26 plane), and assuming the wave is periodic in formula_27 with wavenumber formula_28 the equations in each layer reduces to a second-order ordinary differential equation in formula_29. Insisting on bounded solutions the velocity potential in each layer is\n\nand\n\nwith formula_32 the amplitude of the wave and formula_17 its angular frequency. In deriving this structure, matching conditions have been used at the interface requiring continuity of mass and pressure. These conditions also give the dispersion relation:\n\nin which the reduced gravity formula_8 is based on the density difference between the upper and lower layers:\n\nwith formula_4 the Earth's gravity. Note that the dispersion relation is the same as that for deep water surface waves by setting formula_38\n\nThe structure and dispersion relation of internal waves in a uniformly stratified fluid is found through the solution of the linearized conservation of mass, momentum, and internal energy equations assuming the fluid is incompressible and the background density varies by a small amount (the Boussinesq approximation). Assuming the waves are two dimensional in the x-z plane, the respective equations are\n\nin which formula_1 is the perturbation density, formula_44 is the pressure, and formula_45 is the velocity. The ambient density changes linearly with height as given by formula_11 and formula_5, a constant, is the characteristic ambient density.\n\nSolving the four equations in four unknowns for a wave of the form formula_48 gives the dispersion relation\n\nin which formula_50 is the buoyancy frequency and formula_51 is the angle of the wavenumber vector to the horizontal, which is also the angle formed by lines of constant phase to the vertical.\n\nThe phase velocity and group velocity found from the dispersion relation predict the unusual property that they are perpendicular and that the vertical components of the phase and group velocities have opposite sign: if a wavepacket moves upward to the right, the crests move downward to the right.\n\nMost people think of waves as a surface phenomenon, which acts between water (as in lakes or oceans) and the air. Where low density water overlies high density water in the ocean, internal waves propagate along the boundary. They are especially common over the continental shelf regions of the world oceans and where brackish water overlies salt water at the outlet of large rivers. There is typically little surface expression of the waves, aside from slick bands that can form over the trough of the waves.\n\nInternal waves are the source of a curious phenomenon called dead water, first reported in 1893 by the Norwegian oceanographer Fridtjof Nansen, in which a boat may experience strong resistance to forward motion in apparently calm conditions. This occurs when the ship is sailing on a layer of relatively fresh water whose depth is comparable to the ship's draft. This causes a wake of internal waves that dissipates a huge amount of energy.\n\nInternal waves typically have much lower frequencies and higher amplitudes than surface gravity waves because the density differences (and therefore the restoring forces) within a fluid are usually much smaller. Wavelengths vary from centimetres to kilometres with periods of seconds to hours respectively.\n\nThe atmosphere and ocean are continuously stratified: potential density generally increases steadily downward. Internal waves in a continuously stratified medium may propagate vertically as well as horizontally. The dispersion relation for such waves is curious: For a freely-propagating internal wave packet, the direction of propagation of energy (group velocity) is perpendicular to the direction of propagation of wave crests and troughs (phase velocity). An internal wave may also become confined to a finite region of altitude or depth, as a result of varying stratification or wind. Here, the wave is said to be \"ducted\" or \"trapped\", and a vertically standing wave may form, where the vertical component of group velocity approaches zero. A ducted internal wave \"mode\" may propagate horizontally, with parallel group and phase velocity vectors, analogous to propagation within a waveguide.\n\nAt large scales, internal waves are influenced both by the rotation of the Earth as well as by the stratification of the medium. The frequencies of these geophysical wave motions vary from a lower limit of the Coriolis frequency (inertial motions) up to the Brunt–Väisälä frequency, or buoyancy frequency (buoyancy oscillations). Above the Brunt–Väisälä frequency, there may be evanescent internal wave motions, for example those resulting from partial reflection. Internal waves at tidal frequencies are produced by tidal flow over topography/bathymetry, and are known as internal tides. Similarly, atmospheric tides arise from, for example, non-uniform solar heating associated with diurnal motion.\n\nCross-shelf transport, the exchange of water between coastal and offshore environments, is of particular interest for its role in delivering meroplanktonic larvae to often disparate adult populations from shared offshore larval pools. Several mechanisms have been proposed for the cross-shelf of planktonic larvae by internal waves. The prevalence of each type of event depends on a variety of factors including bottom topography, stratification of the water body, and tidal influences.\n\nSimilarly to surface waves, internal waves change as they approach the shore. As the ratio of wave amplitude to water depth becomes such that the wave “feels the bottom,” water at the base of the wave slows down due to friction with the sea floor. This causes the wave to become asymmetrical and the face of the wave to steepen, and finally the wave will break, propagating forward as an internal bore. Internal waves are often formed as tides pass over a shelf break. The largest of these waves are generated during springtides and those of sufficient magnitude break and progress across the shelf as bores. These bores are evidenced by rapid, step-like changes in temperature and salinity with depth, the abrupt onset of upslope flows near the bottom and packets of high frequency internal waves following the fronts of the bores.\n\nThe arrival of cool, formerly deep water associated with internal bores into warm, shallower waters corresponds with drastic increases in phytoplankton and zooplankton concentrations and changes in plankter species abundances. Additionally, while both surface waters and those at depth tend to have relatively low primary productivity, thermoclines are often associated with a chlorophyll maximum layer. These layers in turn attract large aggregations of mobile zooplankton that internal bores subsequently push inshore. Many taxa can be almost absent in warm surface waters, yet plentiful in these internal bores.\n\nWhile internal waves of higher magnitudes will often break after crossing over the shelf break, smaller trains will proceed across the shelf unbroken. At low wind speeds these internal waves are evidenced by the formation of wide surface slicks, oriented parallel to the bottom topography, which progress shoreward with the internal waves. Waters above an internal wave converge and sink in its trough and upwell and diverge over its crest. The convergence zones associated with internal wave troughs often accumulate oils and flotsam that occasionally progress shoreward with the slicks. These rafts of flotsam can also harbor high concentrations of larvae of invertebrates and fish an order of magnitude higher than the surrounding waters.\n\nThermoclines are often associated with chlorophyll maximum layers. Internal waves represent oscillations of these thermoclines and therefore have the potential to transfer these phytoplankton rich waters downward, coupling benthic and pelagic systems. Areas affected by these events show higher growth rates of suspension feeding ascidians and bryozoans, likely due to the periodic influx of high phytoplankton concentrations. Periodic depression of the thermocline and associated downwelling may also play an important role in the vertical transport of planktonic larvae.\n\nLarge steep internal waves containing trapped, reverse-oscillating cores can also transport parcels of water shoreward. These non-linear waves with trapped cores had previously been observed in the laboratory and predicted theoretically. These waves propagate in environments characterized by high shear and turbulence and likely derive their energy from waves of depression interacting with a shoaling bottom further upstream. The conditions favorable to the generation of these waves are also likely to suspend sediment along the bottom as well as plankton and nutrients found along the benthos in deeper water.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27829281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27829281", "title": "List of Lepidoptera of Hawaii", "text": "List of Lepidoptera of Hawaii\n\nAn estimated 1,150 species of Lepidoptera, the order comprising butterflies and moths, have been recorded in the U.S. state of Hawaii. Of these, 948 are endemic and 199 are nonindigenous species.\n\nThis page provides a link to either individual species or genera. The latter is used when all species of the genus are endemic to Hawaii, the individual species can be found on the genus page.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43788221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43788221", "title": "List of Licania species", "text": "List of Licania species\n\nList of plant species in the genus Licania.\n\n the \"World Checklist of Selected Plant Families\" and \"The Plant List\" recognise about 223 accepted taxa (of species and infraspecific names) in the plant genus \"Licania\".\n"}
{"id": "25489204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25489204", "title": "List of Superfund sites in Kansas", "text": "List of Superfund sites in Kansas\n\nThis is a list of Superfund sites in Kansas designated under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) environmental law. The CERCLA federal law of 1980 authorized the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to create a list of polluted locations requiring a long-term response to clean up hazardous material contaminations. These locations are known as Superfund sites, and are placed on the National Priorities List (NPL). \n\nThe NPL guides the EPA in \"determining which sites warrant further investigation\" for environmental remediation. As of March 26, 2010, there were 11 Superfund sites on the National Priorities List in Kansas. One more site has been proposed for entry on the list. Five sites have been cleaned up and removed from the list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27698944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27698944", "title": "List of Trisetum species", "text": "List of Trisetum species\n\nA list of species in genus \"Trisetum\". There are approximately 75 species in this genus of grasses.\n"}
{"id": "44290443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44290443", "title": "List of edible plants and mushrooms of southeast Alaska", "text": "List of edible plants and mushrooms of southeast Alaska\n\nSoutheast Alaska has an unusual climate that allows a large number of edible plant and edible mushroom species to grow. The area consists primarily of the Tongass National Forest, which is a Temperate rainforest. This rainforest has plenty of precipitation and the temperature remains relatively constant, therefore many plant and fungi species flourish there. On a geological time scale, fairly recently during the Little Ice Age, glaciers were abundant in Southeast Alaska. The ice age's last maximum ended about 10,000 years ago. Once the glaciers retreated, they left behind nutrient-rich sediments. These nutrients in the soil enriched the ecosystem of the area.\n\nHistorically the Tlingit people of the Pacific Northwest foraged off of the land. The Tlingit cuisine included everything from whales to deer, and from clams to plants. Often the Tlingit people included in their diet many edible items from the surrounding native vegetation along with what ever seafood and wild game they were able to find. Hunting and fishing expeditions were not always successful, in which case, meals were made using the local berries, fungus, and seaweed. Because winters were long and cold in the Pacific Northwest, the Tlingit people used preserving methods in order to be able to use the gathered vegetation all winter long. Many of the edible plants that are consumed today in Southeast Alaska are eaten because of the knowledge passed down from many generations of Tlingit.\n\nThe temperate rainforest of the Tongass National Forest often produces a great amount of mushrooms in the summer and fall months. Fungi can be used for dyeing natural fibers and as a food source. In the ecosystem, Fungi cycle nutrients, aggregate soil, retain water, and are a source of food for many animals. There are many kinds of fungi, including Chanterelles, Boletes, Morels, and Puffballs.\n\nGenerally speaking individuals are permitted to harvest mushrooms in the Tongass National Forest without a special license. However, it is expected that harvesters help protect the natural resources from damage. For commercial harvest, a permit is required. Harvesters must check with a local forest ranger to make sure all harvesting is legal.\n\nMany species of mushrooms and berries can be poisonous, but look similar to the edible species. Harvesting the entire mushroom allows for easier identification as does taking note of the surroundings where the fungus was found. All harvested mushrooms need to be cooked, not eaten raw.\n"}
{"id": "794561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=794561", "title": "List of geoscience organizations", "text": "List of geoscience organizations\n\nThis is a list of organizations dealing with the various geosciences, including geology, geophysics, hydrology, oceanography, petrophysics, and related fields.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "602615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602615", "title": "List of mountains in India", "text": "List of mountains in India\n\nThis is a list of mountains and mountain ranges in India. Many mountains are measured from Isolated level\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "451969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=451969", "title": "List of protected natural resources in Serbia", "text": "List of protected natural resources in Serbia\n\nProtected areas cover around 5% of the territory of Serbia. The \"Law on the Protection of the Nature\" defines these categories of protected areas:\n\nThere are 4 national parks in Serbia (IUCN Category II) as of 2007, and one more which is proposed and is in the procedure of receiving the status of the National Park: One of those National parks (Šar Mountain) is located on the territory of Kosovo. Although Kosovo declared independence in 2008, Serbian government does not recognize this, so Šar Mountain is still listed as a Serbian National park by Serbian authorities.\n\nThere are 22 Nature reserves (IUCN category Ia) in Serbia and 6 more which are in the procedure of receiving the status of a Nature reserve. They are grouped into two groups: \"Strict Nature Reserves\" and \"Special Nature Reserves\":\n\nThere are 23 Nature parks and Landscapes of Outstanding Features (IUCN Category Ib) and 8 more which are in the procedure of receiving the status of a Nature park or a Landscape of outstanding features:\n\nThere are currently 64 natural monuments of geological heritage and 225 monuments of botanical heritage (mostly rare trees) in Serbia. Some of the best known monuments of geological heritage are: Resavska cave, Đavolja Varoš, Marble cave and Rugova Canyon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8591451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591451", "title": "List of stars in Corona Borealis", "text": "List of stars in Corona Borealis\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Corona Borealis, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "162312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162312", "title": "Mechanical wave", "text": "Mechanical wave\n\nA mechanical wave is a wave that is an oscillation of matter, and therefore transfers energy through a medium. While waves can move over long distances, the movement of the medium of transmission—the material—is limited. Therefore, the oscillating material does not move far from its initial equilibrium position. Mechanical waves transport energy. This energy propagates in the same direction as the wave. Any kind of wave (mechanical or electromagnetic) has a certain energy. Mechanical waves can be produced only in media which possess elasticity and inertia.\n\nA mechanical wave requires an initial energy input. Once this initial energy is added, the wave travels through the medium until all its energy is transferred. In contrast, electromagnetic waves require no medium, but can still travel through one.\n\nOne important property of mechanical waves is that their amplitudes are measured in an unusual way, displacement divided by (reduced) wavelength. When this gets comparable to unity, significant nonlinear effects such as harmonic generation may occur, and, if large enough, may result in chaotic effects. For example, waves on the surface of a body of water break when this dimensionless amplitude exceeds 1, resulting in a foam on the surface and turbulent mixing. Some of the most common examples of mechanical waves are water waves, sound waves, and seismic waves.\n\nThere are three types of mechanical waves: transverse waves, longitudinal waves, and surface waves.\n\nTo see an example, move an end of a Slinky (whose other end is fixed) to the left-and-right of the Slinky, as opposed to to-and-fro. Light also has properties of a transverse wave, although it is an electromagnetic wave.\n\nLongitudinal waves cause the medium to vibrate parallel to the direction of the wave. It consists of multiple compressions and rarefactions. The rarefaction is the farthest distance apart in the longitudinal wave and the compression is the closest distance together. The speed of the longitudinal wave is increased in higher index of refraction, due to the closer proximity of the atoms in the medium that is being compressed. Sound is considered a longitudinal wave.\n\nThis type of wave travels along a surface that is between two media. An example of a surface wave would be waves in a pool, or in an ocean, lake, or any other type of water body. There are two types of surface waves, namely Rayleigh waves and Love waves.\n\nRayleigh waves, also known as \"ground roll\", are waves that travel as ripples with motion similar to those of waves on the surface of water. Rayleigh waves are much slower than body waves, at roughly 90% of the velocity of for a typical homogeneous elastic medium. Rayleigh waves have energy losses only in two dimensions and are hence more destructive in earthquakes than conventional bulk waves, such as P-waves and S-waves, which lose energy in all three directions.\n\nA Love wave is a surface wave having horizontal waves that are shear or transverse to the direction of propagation. They usually travel slightly faster than Rayleigh waves, at about 90% of the body wave velocity, and have the largest amplitude.\n\n"}
{"id": "47634858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47634858", "title": "Meltwater pulse 1B", "text": "Meltwater pulse 1B\n\nMeltwater pulse 1B (MWP1b) is the name used by Quaternary geologists, paleoclimatologists, and oceanographers for a period of either rapid or just accelerated post-glacial sea level rise that occurred between 11,500 and 11,200 years ago at the beginning of the Holocene and after the end of the Younger Dryas. Meltwater pulse 1B is also known as catastrophic rise event 2 (CRE2) in the Caribbean Sea. \n\nOther named, postglacial meltwater pulses are known most commonly as meltwater pulse 1A0 (meltwaterpulse19ka), meltwater pulse 1A, meltwater pulse 1C, meltwater pulse 1D, and meltwater pulse 2. \nIt and these other periods of proposed rapid sea level rise are known as \"meltwater pulses\" because the inferred cause of them was the rapid release of meltwater into the oceans from the collapse of continental ice sheets.\n\nThere is considerable unresolved disagreement over the significance, timing, magnitude, and even existence of meltwater pulse 1B. It was first recognized by Fairbanks in his coral reef studies in Barbados. From the analysis of data from cores of coral reefs surrounding Barbados, he concluded that during meltwater pulse 1B, sea level rose in about 500 years about 11,300 calendar years ago.\n\nHowever, in 1996 and 2010, Bard and others published detailed analysis of data from cores from coral reefs surrounding Tahiti. They concluded that meltwater pulse 1B was, at best, just an acceleration of sea level rise at about 11,300 calendar years ago and it was, at worst, not statistically different from a constant rate sea level rise between 11,500 and 10,200 calendar years ago. They argued that meltwater pulse 1B was certainly not an abrupt jump in sea level, which they would consider to be a \"meltwater pulse\". They argue that the rise in sea level estimated by Fairbanks from cores is an artifact created by differential tectonic uplift between different sides of a tectonic structure lying between the two Barbados cores used to identify meltwater pulse 1B and calculate its magnitude.\n\nOther differing estimates about the magnitude of meltwater pulse 1B have been published. In 2010, Standford and others found it to be \"robustly expressed\" as a multi-millennial interval of enhanced rates of sea-level rise between 11,500 and 8,800 calendar years ago with peak rates of rise of up to 25 mm/yr. In 2004, Liu and Milliman reexamined the original data from Barbados and Tahiti and reconsidered the mechanics and sedimentology of reef drowning by sea level rise. They concluded that meltwater pulse 1B occurred between 11,500 and 11,200 calendar years ago, a 300-calendar year interval, during which sea level rose from to , giving a mean annual rate of around 40mm/yr Other studies have revised the estimated magnitude of meltwater pulse 1B downward to between and less than .\n\nGiven the disagreement over its timing, magnitude, and even existence, it has been very difficult to constrain the source of meltwater pulse 1B. In his modeling of global glacial isostatic adjustment, Peltier assumed that the predominant source for MWP-1B was the Antarctic Ice Sheet. However, no justification for this assumption is provided in his papers. In addition, Leventer and others argue that the timing of deglaciation in eastern Antarctica roughly coincides with the onset of meltwater pulse 1B and the Antarctic Ice Sheet is a likely source. Finally, McKay and others suggested that recession of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet may have supplied the meltwater needed to the start meltwater pulse 1B.\n\nHowever, later studies involving the surface exposure dating of glacial erratics, nunatak,s and other formerly glaciated exposures using cosmogenic dating contradicted the above arguments and assumptions. These studies tentatively concluded that the actual amount of thinning of the East Antarctic Ice Sheet is too small and likely too gradual and too late to have contributed any significant amount of meltwater to meltwater pulse 1B. They also concluded that the ice sheet retreat and thinning accelerated for the West Antarctic Ice Sheet only after 7,000 calendar years ago. Although other researchers have concluded that the abrupt decay of the Laurentide Ice Sheet might have been sufficient to have been responsible for meltwater pulse 1B, its sources remain an unresolved mystery. For example, recent research in West Antarctica found that sufficient deglaciation contemporaneous with meltwater pulse 1B occurred to readily explain this rapid period of global sea level rise.\n\nFortunately, a variety of paleoclimate and paleohydrologic proxies,which can be used to reconstruct the prehistoric discharge of the Mississippi River, can be found in the sediments of the Louisiana continental shelf and slope, including the Orca and Pygmy basins, within the Gulf of Mexico. These proxies have been used by Quaternary geologists, paleoclimatologists, and oceanographers to reconstruct both the duration and discharge the mouth of the prehistoric Mississippi River for the Late glacial and postglacial periods, including the time of meltwater pulse 1B. The chronology of flooding events found by the study of numerous cores on the Louisiana continental shelf and slope are in agreement that the timing of meltwater pulses. For example, meltwater pulse 1A in the Barbados coral record matches quite well with a group of two separate Mississippi River meltwater flood events, MWF-3 (12,600 radiocarbon years ago) and MWF-4 (11,900 radiocarbon years ago). In addition, meltwater pulse 1B in the Barbados coral record matches a cluster of four Mississippi River superflood events, MWF-5, that occurred between 9,900 and 9,100 radiocarbon years ago. In 2003, Aharon reported that flood event MWF-5 consists of four separate and distinct superfloods at 9,970-9,870; 9,740-9,660; 9,450-9,290; and 9,160-8,900 radiocarbon years ago. The discharge at the mouth of the Mississippi River during three of the four superfloods of MWF-5 is estimated to have varied between 0.07 and 0.08 sverdrups (million cubic meters per second). The superflood at 9450-9290 radiocarbon years ago is estimated to have had a discharge of 0.10 sverdrups (million cubic meters per second). This research also shows that the Mississippi superfloods of MWF-5 occurred during the Preboreal. The same research found an absence of either meltwater floods or superfloods discharging into the Gulf of Mexico from the Mississippi River during the preceding thousand years, which is known as the \"cessation event\", that corresponds with the Younger Dryas stadial.\n\nThe Pleistocene deposits blanketing the Louisiana Continental shelf and slope between the mouth of the Mississippi River and Orca and Pygmy basins largely consist of sediments transported down the Mississippi River mixed with variable additions of local biologically generated carbonate. Because of this, the provenance of the meltwater and superfloods can be readily inferred from the sediment's composition. The composition of the sediments brought into the Gulf of Mexico and deposited on the Louisiana continental shelf and slope during the superfloods of MWF-5 reflect an abrupt change in mineralogy, fossil content, organic matter, and amount after 12,900 calendar years ago at the start of the Younger Dryas interval. First, after 12,900 calendar years ago, smectite-rich sediments from the Missouri River drainage are progressively and quickly replaced by sediments, which are associated with the Great Lakes region and further south along the Mississippi River, as indicated by their clay mineralogy. Second, after 12,900 calendar years ago, the overall quantity of sediment being transported down the Mississippi River abruptly decreases with a corresponding and significantly increased proportion of locally produced biologically generated carbonate and organic matter. Third, after 12,900 calendar years ago, various analyses, e.g. C/N ratio and Rock–Eval Pyrolysis, indicate that the type of organic matter present changes from organic matter that was reworked from old formations by glacials to well-preserved Holocene organic matter that is mainly of marine origin. Finally, after 12,900 calendar years ago, the presence of reworked nanofossils disappear from sediments accumulating on the Louisiana continental shelf and slope.\n\nThe above changes in the nature of accumulating sediments indicate that after the start of the Younger Dryas, the southern route for Laurentide Ice Sheet meltwater was largely blocked. On the rare occasions it could flow southward, glacial meltwater flowed through Lake Agassiz and sometimes the Great Lakes to the Mississippi River. As the water moved through either Lake Agassiz or other proglacial lakes, they completely trapped and removed any glacial outwash and the older, reworked organic material and reworked nanofossils that the outwash contained. As a result, the sediment carried by the Mississippi River after the start of the Younger Dryas consisted of illite and chorite enriched sediments from the Great Lakes region that lacked any reworked nanofossils. These changes argue that the superfloods of MWF-5 which fed Meltwater Pulse B are related to either rare periods of southerly discharge of meltwater through Lake Agassiz, nonglacial periods of climate-enhanced discharge within the Mississippi River Basin, or a combination of both.\n\nIn case of the Antarctica Ice Sheet, an equivalent well-dated, high-resolution record of the discharge of icebergs from various parts of the Antarctic Ice Sheet for the past 20,000 calendar years is also available. Research by Weber and others constructed a record from variations in the amount of iceberg-rafted debris versus time and other environmental proxies in two cores taken from the ocean bottom within Iceberg Alley of the Weddell Sea. The cores of ocean bottom sediments within Iceberg Alley provide a spatially integrated signal of the variability of the discharge of icebergs into the marine waters by the Antarctic Ice Sheet because it is a confluence zone in which icebergs calved from the entire Antarctic Ice Sheet drift along currents, converge, and exit the Weddell Sea to the north into the Scotia Sea.\n\nBetween 20,000 and 9,000 calendar years ago, Weber and others documented eight well-defined periods of increased iceberg calving and discharge from various parts of the Antarctic Ice Sheet. Five of these periods, AID5 through AID2 (Antarctic Iceberg Discharge events), are comparable in duration and have a repeat time of about 800–900 calendar years. The largest of the Antarctic Iceberg Discharge events is AID2. Its peak intensity at about 11,300 calendar years ago, which is synchronous with meltwater pulse 1B in the Barbados sea-level record, is consistent with a significant Antarctic contribution to meltwater pulse 1B. The lack of a sea level response in the Tahiti coral record might indicate a regionally specific sea-level response to a deglaciation event only from the Pacific sector of the Antarctica Ice Sheet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41482104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41482104", "title": "Ministry of Housing, Territorial Planning and Environment of Uruguay", "text": "Ministry of Housing, Territorial Planning and Environment of Uruguay\n\nThe Ministry of Housing, Territorial Planning and Environment (, acronym MVOTMA) is the Uruguayan government ministry which oversees the housing policies, territorial planning and environment of Uruguay.\n\nThe current Foreign Minister is Francisco Beltrame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5982123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5982123", "title": "Modern Maximum", "text": "Modern Maximum\n\nThe Modern Maximum refers to the period of relatively high solar activity which began with Solar Cycle 15 in 1914. It reached a maximum in Cycle 19 during the late 1950s and may have ended with the peak of Cycle 23 in 2000, as Cycle 24 is recording, at best, very muted solar activity. Another proposed end date for the maximum is 2007, with the decline phase of Cycle 23. In any case the low solar activity of Cycle 24 in 2010s marked a new period of reduced solar activity.\n\nThis maximum period is a natural example of solar variation, and one of many that are known from proxy records of past solar variability. The Modern Maximum reached a double peak once in the 1950s and again during the 1990s.\n"}
{"id": "48660867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48660867", "title": "Myrmecophily in Staphylinidae", "text": "Myrmecophily in Staphylinidae\n\nMany species of Staphylinidae (commonly known as “rove beetles”) have developed complex interspecies relationships with ants, known as myrmecophily. Rove Beetles are among the most rich and diverse families of myrmecophilous beetles, with a wide variety of relationships with ants. Ant associations range from near free-living species which prey only on ants, to obligate inquilines of ants, which exhibit extreme morphological and chemical adaptations to the harsh environments of ant nests. Some species are fully integrated into the host colony, and are cleaned and fed by ants. Many of these, including species in tribe Clavigerini, are myrmecophagous, placating their hosts with glandular secretions while eating the brood\n\nStaphylinidae is currently considered to be the largest family of beetles, with over 58,000 species described. As such, many myrmecophilous species are unknown. The majority of studied myrmecophilous Rove Beetles belong to the subfamily Aleocharinae, including the commonly studied genera \"Pella\", \"Dinarda\", \"Tetradonia\", \"Ecitomorpha\", \"Ecitophya\", \"Atemeles\", and \"Limechusa\", and to the subfamily Pselaphinae, which includes \"Claviger\" and \"Adranes\". There are also representatives of Scydmaenidae, which includes 117 myrmecophilous species in 20 genera The Aleocharinae possess defensive glands on their abdomens, which are used in myrmecophilous species to prevent attacks by their host ant and in more extreme cases to integrate completely into the colony. Many Pselephinae species have trichomes, tufts of hairs which hold placating pheromones. Pselephines have evolved trichomes independently at least four times, most notably in all members of Clavigerini, but also in \"Attapsenius\" and \"Songius\" genera.\n\nDue to their large number and diversity, myrmecophilous Rove Beetles occupy an array of behaviors. Myrmecophilous interactions can be generalized into categories, in three of which Staphylinids can be found. The synecthrans, or “persecuted guests,” the synoeketes, or “tolerated guests,” and the symphiles, or “true guests.”\n\nSynecthran Staphylinids live on the periphery of the host colony and are not accepted into the colony. The majority are in the subfamily Aleocharinae, having defensive glands on their terminal abdominal segments. Species in this group, such as those in the genus \"Pella\", commonly lay their eggs in the refuse heaps of their host ant, where the larvae feed on the discarded carcasses of ants. If detected by the host ant, the larvae enters a typical defense position, facing the ant with its abdomen tip raised. Usually this behavior results in the ant palpating the beetle’s abdomen and stopping the attack. At least two members of \"Pella, P. funestus\" and \"P. humeralis\", produce several of their host ant’s alarm pheromones to avoid aggression. Other species, like members of \"Myrmechusa, Aenictonia\", and \"Anommatochara\", prey on raiding columns or on the nests of Driver ants (\"Dorylus\"). \"Myrmechusa\" species attack the ants from the rear before pulling them from the main column. If pursued, they rapidly wave their abdomens through the air, releasing a noticeable scent. Ants encountering this scent seem disoriented and take almost 20 minutes to recover.\n\nSynoeketetic Staphylinids live in close contact with their host ants but are not integrated into the colony. These species may be further categorized as neutral, mimetic, loricate, and symphiloid synoeketes. Neutral synoeketes ignore and are ignored by their host, but feed on refuse. There are few Staphylinid neutral synoeketes, but some are found in the genus \"Athetini\", which live in the debris and fungal chambers of leaf cutter ants (\"Atta\"). Mimetic synoeketes are myrmecoid, resembling their host ant morphologically. Many mimetic species are guests of Driver ants, which are blind. Driver ants however have strong senses of touch, suggesting mimics fool their hosts tactilely. It is also possible that mimicry may reduce predation from more visual animals, such as birds. Loricate, or “tear-drop shaped”, synoeketes are “defensive forms”. They typically exhibit long tapering bodies with broad thoraxes and smooth bodies, which prevent aggressing ants from gripping them. Symphiloids strongly resemble “true guests,” but are not fully integrated into the colony. They are often mimics, and in some species have developed trichomes. Syneoketes generally live on or inside of ant nests, where they feed on refuse and may steal food from their hosts. There is some overlap between synoeketes and other categories, especially in loricate species and synecthrans, and symphiloids and symphiles, where the behavior of “true guests” may be difficult to determine.\n\nSymphilic Staphylinids have been fully integrated into the host ant’s society. Symphilic species have undergone complex morphological adaptations, many becoming myrmecoid. Most have developed trichomes, which secrete appeasement pheromones. The most extreme adaptations, found in members of tribe Clavigerini, include the reduction of mouthparts for trophallaxis and the fusing of many body and antennal segments. While most symphiles use antennal contact to stimulate food giving from their host, at least one member of Clavigerini, \"Claviger testaceus\", secretes a chemical to induce regurgitation from its host ant \"Lasius flavus\". Symphiles typically take on many roles in the colony, raising young, feeding and grooming adults, and helping transport food and larvae. Many Staphylinids are capable of following ant pheromone trails, although they are not limited to following trails laid by their host ant. This allows symphiles of army ants to migrate with the colony. Most species are kleptoparasites being fed by other members of the colony, often through trophallaxis. Almost all species have also been observed feeding on the brood. Some of these species die if kept away from the appropriate ant colonies, and others lay their own eggs in ant brood galleries, effectively making them obligate parasites.\n\nChemical mimicry refers to the production of one species’ chemical signals by another species. Many myrmecophilous Staphylinids have evolved chemical mimicry to deter or placate ants. Synecthrans, as non tolarated guests, primarily produce defensive secretions. \"Pella\" species produce two compounds found in their host ant \"Lasius fuliginosus\", undecane and sulcatone, which elicit aggressive and panic reactions respectively. Although it seems counterintuitive to release an aggressive alarm pheromone as a defense, the presence of sulcatone stops the aggression response to undecane. Ants exposed to the defensive secretion act less aggressively and avoid the odor.\n\nFor Staphylinids accepted into the host colony chemical mimicry is used more for camouflage. The majority of the chemical signals used are cuticular hydrocarbons, which are produced in the cuticle of the host ant at certain concentrations and are palpated to determine the identity of an ant. Species in close contact with their host ants are able to pick up the host’s hydrocarbons and imitate the ant’s hydrocarbon pattern, thus appearing in scent at least to be the same species as the host ant. As hydrocarbon patterns are specific to an individual colony, the Rove Beetles are generally restricted to one nest. The production of a new hydrocarbon pattern takes time, during which the beetle is vulnerable to detection and attack. Some species, such as \"Zyras comes\", produce volatile pheromones as well as cuticular hydrocarbons, which may provide it more protection than contact based pheromones while traveling with its host in foraging trails.\n\n"}
{"id": "12054085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12054085", "title": "Nanmu", "text": "Nanmu\n\nNanmu (Chinese: 楠木) is a type of wood that was frequently used for boat building, architectural woodworking and wood art in China. Ming Dynasty era writings indicate this wood as superior durable softwood. A recent excavation of a tomb in Lija village in Jing'an County, Jiangxi Province found 47 coffins made of nanmu wood that are reported to be about 2500 years old dating back to the Eastern Zhou Dynasty period and belongs to the Dongyi State of Xu.\n\nThe trees that produce nanmu wood are evergreens that have a long straight trunk which grow to 35 meters in height and one meter in diameter. More than 30 varieties exist which are found south of the Yangtze River. There are also nanmu trees on Hainan Island and in Vietnam. Yangmu nanmu is found in Sichuan. Zinan nanmu is found in southeast and south central China. Zinanmu nanmu is found in Jiangsu, Anhui, Zhenjiang. Zhennan nanmu is found in Guizhou and Sichuan. The finest of all the nanmu woods is Hongmao Nanmu (\"Phoebe Hungmaoensis\") from Hainan Island.\n\nNanmu wood comes from several species of tree, including:\n\nNanmu is a very knotty wood. It does not react to humidity and temperature much in the way of expansion or contraction and makes superior furniture which tends not to get loose or crack because of changes in climate. Nanmu woods that are lighter in color and have loose grain are considered inferior. \nNanmu was used in architectural woodworking and boat-building due to its resistance to decay. The wood dries with little splitting or warping. After drying the wood is of medium-density and does not change shape. Nanmu can be sanded to a mirror finish.\n\n"}
{"id": "40567183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40567183", "title": "National Aerospace Week", "text": "National Aerospace Week\n\nAerospace Week is an event which celebrates aerospace in the United States. It was established in 2010, and has been celebrated by various government and private organizations, including NASA and the U.S. Department of Commerce. National Aerospace Week was established by an agreement between the U.S. Congress in conjunction with the Aerospace Industries Association . In late 2010 a resolution supporting National Aerospace Week passed both houses of U.S. congress.\n\nIn 2012 NAW was held from September 16–22, 2012.\n\nIn 2013 the NASA Administrator Charlie Bolden noted the National Aerospace Week.\n\nIn 2014, the National Aerospace Week was held Sept. 14-20, 2014. During that week the Governor of the U.S. State of Utah honored the aerospace industry at a luncheon. In 2014 the United States secretary of commerce issued a statement for National Aerospace Week.\n\nAerospace Week was once again recognized by the U.S Department of Commerce in 2017 through a letter from Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross.\n\nIn addition to aerospace week, NASA also celebrates National Aviation Day, which was established in the 1939.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32430563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32430563", "title": "Net smelter return", "text": "Net smelter return\n\nNet Smelter Return (NSR) is the net revenue that the owner of a mining property receives from the sale of the mine's metal/non metal products less transportation and refining costs. As a royalty it refers to the fraction of net smelter return that a mine operator is obligated to pay the owner of the royalty agreement. The royalty is paid in variable or fixed payments based on sales revenue received by a mining operator in return for mining output. It is contingent only on the sales price and quantity of product sold.\n\nThe term is named so due to the fact most of the time, mining output sold requires further processing by smelters; the mining products purchased directly by smelters are sold to them for a discounted (net) price based on how much further processing is needed. The mining lease specifies the selling price (prices are different in spot and forward markets) and is used to verify the exact amount of product that's produced and sold between royalty payments.\n\nOne advantage NSR royalties have over other royalties is that usually, payments are higher in the short term because capital costs and exploration costs cannot be used as deductions (some royalties don't have to be paid until after other costs such as loans/amortization are taken care of). Also, mine life and royalty expiration dates need to be taken into consideration. The royalty can be called a Net Value Royalty when deductions are based solely on the contract.\n\nAlternatively the Gross Smelter Return is a percentage of gross revenue paid by mine owner that isn't subject to any deductions.\n\n"}
{"id": "4596009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4596009", "title": "Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate", "text": "Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate\n\nThe Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate ( or NVE) is a Norwegian government agency established in 1921. It is under the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy and regulates the country's water resources and energy supply. Its mandate includes contingency planning for floods, serving as a centre of expertise for hydrology, research and development, and increasing energy efficiency. It is a member of the Council of European Energy Regulators.\n\nThe directorate is based in Oslo, and has regional offices in Hamar, Førde, Tønsberg, Trondheim and Narvik. It also establishes international contacts and undertakes work abroad in developing countries for the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation. , it has over 400 employees. Its website includes statistics on Norwegian energy consumption, production and prices and a database of Norwegian lakes and water catchment areas.\n\nThe directorate holds administrative responsibility for the Watercourse Regulation Act (1917), Industrial Concession Act (1917), Energy Act (1990) and Water Resources Act (2000). Within the scope of these acts, the directorate can also issue new regulations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33734672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33734672", "title": "Odalar Mosque", "text": "Odalar Mosque\n\nThe Odalar Mosque (, meaning \"the mosque of the barracks\" after the nearby accommodations of the married Jannisaries established in this quarter in the 18th century. Also: \"Kemankeş Mustafa Paşa Câmîi\") was an Ottoman mosque in Istanbul. The building was originally a Byzantine-era Eastern Orthodox church of unknown dedication. In 1475, after the Fall of Constantinople (1453), it became a Roman Catholic church, dedicated to Saint Mary of Constantinople, until finally it was converted into a mosque by the Ottomans in 1640. The mosque was destroyed by fire in 1919, and since then has fallen into ruin. As of 2011, only some walls remain, hidden among modern buildings.\n\nThe ruins of the building lie in Istanbul, in the district of Fatih, in the neighborhood of Salmatomruk, not far from Edirne Kapı (the ancient Gate of Charisius), more or less halfway between the Chora Church and the Fethiye Mosque. The few remains lie in a courtyard and can be accessed through modern blocks built on \"Müftu Sokaĝi 20-22\".\n\nBetween the ninth and the tenth century a church with an underlying basement and a crypt was erected on the top of the sixth hill of Constantinople, on a plateau which is limited by the open air cistern of Aetius (now a football field) and by the unidentified Byzantine edifice denominated in Ottoman times as \"Boĝdan Saray\". The dedication of this building is uncertain, but it was probably part of a complex which also included today's Kasım Ağa Mosque and the İpek Cistern, and was almost certainly the \"katholikon\" of a monastery.\n\nThe edifice has been identified for a long time as the Theotokos \"en te Petra\", but without conclusive evidence.\nDuring the Byzantine period, several monasteries lay in the area; the Monastery of Manuel, that devoted to St. John in Petra, and the nunnery dedicated to the \"Theotokos Kecharitomene\" (\"full of grace\" or \"favoured (by God)\"). The latter was founded at the beginning of the 12th century by Empress Eirene Doukaina, and is known above all because of its detailed and extant \"typikon\". The nearby church of the \"Theotokos tas Kellararias\", used by the nuns of the \"Karithomene\" as a burial place, and that of \"Hagios Nikolaos\", both mentioned in the \"typikon\" of the nunnery, are possible candidates for the identification. Moreover, the Odalar Mosque could also be identified with a nearby church dedicated to Saints Sergius and Bacchus, which lay \"plesion tes Aetiou kinsternes\" (Greek \"near the cistern of Aetios\": not to be confounded with the homonymous church which lies near Hagia Sophia) because of the discovery in the vicinity of a monogrammed capital (unfortunately found not \"in situ\"). Between 1150 and 1175 a new church of the cross-in-square plan was built above the old one (possibly destroyed by fire or menaced by a landslide).\n\nThe documented history of the edifice begins in 1475, shortly after the Fall of Constantinople, when Sultan Mehmed II conquered the Genoese colony of Caffa, in Crimea. About 40,000 Latin, Greek, Armenian and Jewish inhabitants who lived in Caffa (\"Caffariotes\" or, in Turkish, \"Kefeli\") were then deported to Istanbul and relocated to this quarter, which was named after them \"Kefe Mahallesi\". The Latins, mainly Genoese, were authorized to use in their quarter as churches the building and, together with the Armenians, another edifice known later as Kefeli Mosque, which was dedicated to Saint Nicholas.\n\nThe edifice, dedicated then to Saint Mary of Constantinople (), was officiated by the Dominicans, which before the Ottoman conquest had also a monastery in the city on the Black Sea. Here was brought from Caffa a large icon of the Hodegetria type, which now is kept in the Dominican monastery of SS. Peter and Paul in Galata. Due to all that, at the beginning of the sixteenth century the church of Saint Mary had turned into the center of this quarter predominantly inhabited by Italians, but the building fell soon in disrepair. Under Sultan Murad IV (r. 1623–1640) the decision was taken to exclude from the walled city the Christians who were not Ottoman subjects and to resettle them in Galata and Pera. As a consequence, and after riots between Christian and Muslims, the church was closed in 1636, and in 1640 it was transformed into a mosque by \"Sadrazam\" (Grand Vizier) Kemankeş Mustafa Pasha (d. 1644). As mentioned above, only the Hodegetria Icon could be moved with great difficulties to Galata.\n\nAfter the relocation of the married Janissaries in the quarter in 1782, the mosque got the appellation of \"Odalar\" (In Turkish \"Oda\" means \"room\" but also \"barrack of the Janissaries\"). Previously these were lodged at the \"Eski Odalar\" (\"Old Barracks\") near Şehzade Mosque, which were destroyed in the fire of 1782. The building decayed steadily (by the mid-19th century the dome had collapsed), and it was heavily damaged by the fire of Salmatomruk on 2 July 1919. When the quarter was rebuilt with modern criteria the edifice was not restored, and fell into ruin.\n\nAs mentioned above, several constructive phases can be recognized in the building during the Byzantine period. The first church, erected in the middle Byzantine age, had an almost square plan (about 11.65 m x 10 m ) with three apses, and was oriented toward the East. In 1935, only the tripartite sanctuary and the \"Bema\" were still visible. The church was built on a basement composed of 24 vaulted rooms and a vaulted crypt with an apse, which is supposed to have been a chapel containing relics. These rooms had at first a profane usage, later they were used as burial place and finally as a cistern.\n\nThe second church, erected at the end of the twelfth century, used also 16 small rooms of the abandoned first church's basement as substructure. The masonry was made of stone and bricks, and was erected with the technique of the \"recessed brick\", typical of the Byzantine architecture of the middle period. In this technique, alternate courses of bricks are mounted behind the line of the wall, and are plunged in a mortar's bed. Due to that, the thickness of the mortar layers is about three times greater than that of the bricks layers. In this building, three or four rows of bricks alternate with single rows of stones, and the bricks are arranged to form several patterns.\n\nThe second church was of the cross-in-square type with an almost square \"naos\" about 10.5 m wide: it had four columns sustaining the dome through pendentives, three apses - the central one having a polygonal shape - and a narthex embracing the edifice on the west and north sides. The dome was about 4.4. m wide, lay on a drum and was adorned with frescoes. East of the \"naos\" lay a tripartite sanctuary composed of a \"bema\" flanked by a \"prothesis\" and a \"diakonikon\". The floor of the new church was 3.3 m above that of the first church. The edifice can be described as a middle-sized Byzantine church, similar to the nearby Church of Christ Pantepoptes.\n\nFrom a relation of Pietro Demarchis, bishop of Santorini, who visited Istanbul in 1622, we know that at that time the columns of the church had been taken away by the Turks and substituted with wooden pillars, and that the dome was covered with frescoes. Moreover, part of the building was already menacing ruin. Just after the conversion to mosque, to the building were added a mihrab, a minbar and a minaret. After the fire of 1919, the building fell into ruin (the roof collapsed and the minaret crashed already in the 1820s), but luckily it was thoroughly studied and surveyed by the German Archaeologist Paul Schatzmann in 1934/1935.\nAccording to the Greek scholar Alexandros G. Paspates, in the East part of the basement of the Mosque sprung a water source (, , ) dedicated to Saint John the Baptist, abandoned for a long time.\n\nDuring the excavation of 1934/1935 up to four mortar layers covered with frescoes on blue background were uncovered. A fresco representing a Madonna on Throne with angels was found in the crypt. In the basement rooms were found fragments of paintings having as subject funerary themes. In the inferior church were discovered two deesis, a fresco representing the soldier Saint Mercurius - of unparalleled technique among the known Byzantine works of this age - and prophets. These paintings were executed either in the tenth or in the middle of the eleventh century, belonging so to the first church. The diakonikon of the second church was adorned with frescoes showing saints and episodes of the Life of the Virgin. The best preserved frescoes (among them Saint Mercurius) were detached, restored and are on display at the Archaeological Museum of Istanbul.\n\n"}
{"id": "3289793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3289793", "title": "Paper composite panels", "text": "Paper composite panels\n\nPaper composite panels are a phenolic resin/cellulose composite material made from partially recycled paper and phenolic resin. Multiple layers of paper are soaked in phenolic resin, then molded and baked into net shape in a heated form or press. Originally distributed as a commercial kitchen surface in the 1950s, it has recently been adapted for use in skateboard parks as well as various other applications, such as residential counters, cabinetty, fiberglass cores, guitar fingerboards, signage, exterior wall cladding, and a variety of architectural applications.\n\nThere are several manufacturers in North America who use a different composition of materials to form the final product. One composition is cellulose fiber and phenolic resin (a type of polymer) which is combined and baked for a smooth hard surface. The natural fibers are made from plant, animal and mineral sources. However most natural fibers are predominantly cellulosic.\nBecause of the resin's thermoset properties the resulting cooled material is hard.\n\nIt was used for the Boeing 747 for their air tables, hydroforming dyes, vacuum chuck faces, work holders, and proofing materials. Architecturally, it is used for countertops. It has also been used for whaleboard in fiberglass boat building. Other commercial uses include cutting boards, prep tables, and pizza peels.\n\nSince the last quarter of the 20th century, phenolic resin and cellulose based compound materials have been used as an alternative to ebony and rosewood to make stringed instrument fingerboards. From 2012, Gibson Guitar Corporation replaced the ebony fingerboard on the production \"Custom\" with paper composite panels (Richlite).\n\nWhile it is formed of many layers of paper laminated together, it appears to be a solid material, and as such is not considered to be a sandwich panel. The panels' resistance to high temperature has been claimed to be up to 350 F.\n\n"}
{"id": "19868945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19868945", "title": "Rhinemaidens", "text": "Rhinemaidens\n\nThe Rhinemaidens are the three water-nymphs (\"Rheintöchter\" or \"Rhine daughters\") who appear in Richard Wagner's opera cycle \"Der Ring des Nibelungen\"(1869-1876). Their individual names are Woglinde, Wellgunde and Flosshilde (Floßhilde), although they are generally treated as a single entity and they act together accordingly. Of the 34 characters in the \"Ring\" cycle, they are the only ones who did not originate in the Old Norse \"Eddas\". Wagner created his Rhinemaidens from other legends and myths, most notably the \"Nibelungenlied\" which contains stories involving water-sprites (nixies) or mermaids. The key concepts associated with the Rhinemaidens in the \"Ring\" operas—their flawed guardianship of the Rhine gold, and the condition (the renunciation of love) through which the gold could be stolen from them and then transformed into a means of obtaining world power—are wholly Wagner's own invention, and are the elements that initiate and propel the entire drama.\n\nThe Rhinemaidens are the first and the last characters seen in the four-opera cycle, appearing both in the opening scene of \"Das Rheingold\", and in the final climactic spectacle of \"Götterdämmerung\", when they rise from the Rhine waters to reclaim the ring from Brünnhilde's ashes. They have been described as morally innocent, yet they display a range of sophisticated emotions, including some that are far from guileless. Seductive and elusive, they have no relationship to any of the other characters, and no indication is given as to how they came into existence, beyond occasional references to an unspecified \"father\".\n\nThe various musical themes associated with the Rhinemaidens are regarded as among the most lyrical in the entire \"Ring\" cycle, bringing to it rare instances of comparative relaxation and charm. The music contains important melodies and phrases which are reprised and developed elsewhere in the operas to characterise other individuals and circumstances, and to relate plot developments to the source of the narrative. It is reported that Wagner played the Rhinemaidens' lament at the piano, on the night before he died in Venice, in 1883.\n\nAlone of the \"Ring's\" characters, the Rhinemaidens do not originate from the \"Poetic Edda\" or \"Prose Edda\", the Icelandic sources for most of Norse mythology. Water-sprites (German: \"Nixen\") appear in many European myths and legends, often but not invariably in a form of disguised malevolence. Wagner drew widely and loosely from those legends when compiling his \"Ring\" narrative, and the probable origin of his Rhinemaidens is in the German \"Nibelungenlied\". In one part of the \"Nibelungenlied\" narrative Hagen and Gunther encounter certain \"wise women\" (thereafter described as water-sprites), bathing and refreshing themselves in the waters of the Danube. Hagen creeps softly towards them, but he is seen, whereupon the sprites retreat and mock him from a distance. Hagen then steals their clothes. To obtain the return of these, one of the sprites, Hadeburg, promises falsely that Hagen and Gunther will find honor and glory when they enter Etzel's kingdom. After their clothes are returned, another sprite, Sigelinde (a name Wagner would adopt again for use elsewhere), tells Hagen that her sister has lied. If they go to Etzel's land, they will die there.\n\nThis story, itself unrelated to the \"Ring\" drama, is echoed by Wagner both in the opening \"Das Rheingold\" scene and in the first scene in Act III of \"Götterdämmerung\". Wagner first adapted the story for use in his early libretto of \"Siegfried's Death\" (which eventually became \"Götterdämmerung\"), introducing three unnamed water-maids (\"Wasserjungfrauen\"), and locating them in the Rhine, where they warn Siegfried of his impending death. Later these water-maids became Rhinemaidens (\"Rheintöchter\"), and were given individual names: Flosshilde, Wellgunde, and Bronnlinde. As Wagner continued working on his reverse chronology from Siegfried's death, he arrived at what he determined was the initial act of the drama—Alberich's theft of the Rhine gold. Believing that a simple abduction of the unguarded gold would lack dramatic force, Wagner made the Rhinemaidens the guardians of the gold, and he introduced the \"renunciation of love\" condition. Bronnlinde became Woglinde, probably to avoid confusion with Brünnhilde.\n\nWagner may also have been influenced by the Rhine River-based German legend of Lorelei, the lovelorn young maiden who drowns herself in the river and becomes a siren, luring fishermen onto the rocks by her singing. Further possible sources lie in Greek mythology and literature. Similarities exist between the maiden guardians in the Hesperides myth and the Rhinemaidens of \"Das Rheingold\"; three females guard a highly desired golden treasure that is stolen in the telling of each tale. Wagner was an enthusiastic reader of Aeschylus, including his \"Prometheus Bound\" which has a chorus of Oceanids or water nymphs. One author, Rudolph Sabor, sees a link between the Oceanids' treatment of Prometheus and the Rhinemaidens' initial tolerance of Alberich. Just as in Greek myth the Oceanids are the daughters of the titan sea god Oceanus, in Norse mythology—specifically the \"Poetic Edda\"—the jötunn (similar to a giant) sea god Ægir has nine daughters. The name of one of these means \"wave\" (\"Welle\" in German) and is a possible source for Wellgunde's name.\n\nWagner's operas do not reveal where the Rhinemaidens came from, or whether they have any connection to other characters. Whereas most of the characters in the cycle are inter-related, through birth, marriage, or sometimes both, the Rhinemaidens are seemingly independent. The identity of their father who entrusted them with the guardianship of the gold is not given in the text. Some Wagnerean scholars have suggested that he may be a \"Supreme Being\" who is the father of Wotan and all the gods—indeed, of all creation. Others take the German \"Rheintöchter\" literally and say that they are the daughters of the Rhine River. Whatever is surmised, the Rhinemaidens are in a different category from Wotan and the other gods, who are destroyed by fire at the end of \"Götterdämmerung\", while the Rhinemaidens swim happily away in the river, bearing their recovered treasure.\n\nThe Rhinemaidens have been described as the drama's \"most seductive but most elusive characters\", and in one analysis as representatives of \"seduction by infantile fantasy\". They act essentially as a unity, with a composite yet elusive personality. Apart from Flosshilde’s implied seniority, demonstrated by occasional light rebukes and illustrated musically by awarding the role to a deeper-voiced contralto or mezzo, their characters are undifferentiated. In \"The Perfect Wagnerite\", his 1886 analysis of the \"Ring\" drama as political allegory, George Bernard Shaw describes the Rhinemaidens as \"thoughtless, elemental, only half-real things, very much like modern young ladies\". The attributes most apparent initially are charm and playfulness, combined with a natural innocence; their joy in the gold they guard derives from its beauty alone, even though they know its latent power. However, this veneer of childlike simplicity is misleading; aside from proving themselves irresponsible as guardians, they are also provocative, sarcastic and cruel in their interaction with Alberich. When the demigod Loge reports that the Rhinemaidens need Wotan's help to regain the gold, Fricka, the goddess of marriage, calls them a \"watery brood\" (\"Wassergezücht\") and complains about the many men they have lured away with their \"treacherous bathing\". They are beguiling and flirtatious with Siegfried, but finally wise as revealed by the undisclosed counsel which they give to Brünnhilde. Sabor sees the personality of the Rhinemaidens as a blend of the \"good hearted nature\" of the Oceanids and the \"austerity\" (including the willingness to drown people) of the daughters of Ægir.\n\nThe first lines sung by Woglinde in the \"Ring\" are dominated by wordless vocalisations. \"Weia! Waga! ... Wagala weia! Wallala weiala weia!\" This attracted comment both at the 1869 premiere of \"Rheingold\" and the 1876 premiere of the entire \"Ring\", with Wagner's work being dismissed as \"Wigalaweia-Musik\". In a letter to Nietzsche dated 12 June 1872, Wagner explained that he had derived \"Weiawaga\" from old German and that it was related to \"Weihwasser\", meaning holy water. Other words were intended as parallels to those found in German nursery lullabies ('Eia Poppeia', 'Heija Poppeia' and 'Aia Bubbeie' are common forms). Thus Woglinde's lines portray both the childish innocence of the Rhinemaidens and the holiness of Nature.\n\nThe Rhinemaidens' sorrow in the loss of the gold is deep and heartfelt. As the gods are crossing the rainbow bridge into Valhalla at the end of \"Das Rheingold\", Loge ironically suggests that, in the absence of the gold, the maidens should \"bask in the gods’ new-found radiance\". The maidens' lament then becomes a stern reproof: \"Tender and true are only the depths\", they sing; \"False and cowardly is all that rejoices up there\". In the final \"Götterdämmerung\" scene they show ruthlessness as, having recovered the ring, they drag the hapless Hagen down into the waters of the Rhine.\n\nThe Rhinemaidens are the only prominent characters seen definitely alive at the end of the drama; the fates of a few others are ambiguous, but most have certainly perished. Despite the relative brevity of their roles in the context of the four-opera cycle, they are key figures; their careless guardianship of the gold and their provocation of Alberich are the factors which determine all that follows. Wagner himself devised the \"renunciation of love\" provision whereby the gold could be stolen and then used to forge a ring with power to rule the world. Since the ring is made from the stolen gold, only its restoration to the Rhinemaidens' care in the waters of the Rhine will lift the curse on it. Hence, the return of the stolen property provides a unifying thematic consistency to Wagner's complex story.\n\nAs the musical prelude climaxes, Woglinde and Wellgunde are seen at play in the depths of the Rhine. Flosshilde joins them after a gentle reminder of their responsibilities as guardians of the gold. They are observed by the Nibelung dwarf Alberich who calls out to them: \"I'd like to draw near if you would be kind to me\". The wary Flosshilde cries: \"Guard the gold! Father warned us of such a foe\". When Alberich begins his rough wooing the maidens relax: \"Now I laugh at my fears, our enemy is in love\", says Flosshilde, and a cruel teasing game ensues. First, Woglinde pretends to respond to the dwarf's advances but swims away as he tries to embrace her. Then Wellgunde takes over, and Alberich's hopes rise until her sharp retort: \"Ugh, you hairy hunchbacked clown!\" Flosshilde pretends to chastise her sisters for their cruelty and feigns her own courtship, by which Alberich is quite taken in until she suddenly tears away to join the others in a mocking song. Tormented with lust, Alberich furiously chases the maidens over the rocks, slipping and sliding as they elude him, before he sinks down in impotent rage. At this point the mood changes: as a sudden brightness penetrates the depths, a magical golden light reveals, for the first time, the Rhinegold on its rock. The maidens sing their ecstatic greeting to the gold, which rouses Alberich's curiosity. In response to his question Woglinde and Wellgunde reveal the gold's secret: measureless power would belong to the one who could forge a ring from it. Flosshilde scolds them for giving this secret away, but her concerns are dismissed—only someone who has forsworn love can obtain the gold, and Alberich is clearly so besotted as to present no danger. But their confidence is misplaced; in his humiliation Alberich decides that world mastery is more desirable than love. As the maidens continue to jeer his antics he scrambles up the rock and, uttering a curse on love, seizes the gold and disappears, leaving the Rhinemaidens to dive after him bewailing their loss.\n\nAs Wotan, Fricka and the other gods start to cross the rainbow bridge leading to Valhalla, they hear a melancholy song from the depths of the Rhine—the maidens, mourning the loss of the gold. Embarrassed and irritated, Wotan tells Loge to silence the maidens, but as the gods continue across the bridge the lament rises again, now with bitter words of reproach to the gods for their heartlessness.\n\nSome time has passed (at least two generations). In a remote wooded valley where the Rhine flows, the ageless Rhinemaidens continue to mourn for the gold, pleading with the \"Sun-woman\" to send them a champion who will return the gold to them. Siegfried's horn is heard, and he soon appears, having lost his way while hunting. The maidens greet him with their old playfulness and offer to help him, for the price of the ring on his finger. After a flirtatious exchange, Siegfried offers, apparently sincerely, to give them the ring. But instead of wisely simply accepting his offer, the mood of the naive, formerly flirtatious Rhinemaidens suddenly becomes solemn: they warn Siegfried he will be killed that very day unless he delivers the ring to them. But brave Siegfried will never submit to any such implied threat and declares: \"By threatening my life and limb, even if it weren't worth as much as a finger, you won't get the ring from me!\" The maidens are scornful of his folly: \"Farewell, Siegfried. A proud woman will today become your heir, scoundrel! She'll give us a better hearing\". Siegfried is not aware that it is to Brünnhilde that they refer. They swim off, leaving a puzzled Siegfried to ponder their words and to admit to himself that he could happily have seduced any one of them.\n\nIn her final soliloquy, Brünnhilde thanks the Rhinemaidens for their \"good advice\". They have apparently told her the full story of Siegfried's ensnarement and betrayal, and advised that only the return of the ring to the waters of the Rhine can lift its curse. Brünnhilde sings: \"What you desire I will give you: from my ashes take it to yourselves. The fire...will cleanse the curse from the ring\". She exhorts the Rhinemaidens to \"carefully guard it\" in the future, then leaps into the flames of Siegfried's pyre. The fire blazes up to fill the stage, representing the destruction of the gods. As the Rhine overflows its banks the Rhinemaidens appear, making for the ring. Hagen, who covets the ring, shouts to them \"Get back from the ring!\" (\"Zurück vom Ring!\"), the last words of the drama. He is seized by Woglinde and Wellgunde and dragged into the Rhine's depths, as Flosshilde grabs the ring, holds it aloft, and joins her sisters swimming in circles as the waters of the Rhine gradually subside.\n\nThe music associated with the Rhinemaidens has been portrayed by the Wagner commentator James Holman as \"some of the seminal music in the \"Ring\"\"; other descriptions have noted its relative charm and relaxation.\n\nIn Woglinde's opening song to the Rhine: \"Weia! Waga! Woge, du Welle...\" (\"Das Rheingold\", Scene 1) the melody is pentatonic, using the notes E flat, F, A flat, B flat and C. The song begins with a two-note falling step (F followed by E flat), a figure which recurs in many musical motives throughout the \"Ring\". The melody itself is reprised during Fricka's denunciation of the Rhinemaidens in \"Das Rheingold\", Scene 2 and, dramatically, at the end of \"Götterdämmerung\" when, after Brünnhilde's immolation, the Rhinemaidens rise from the river to claim the ring from Siegfried's funeral pyre. Its first five notes, with an altered rhythm, become the motive of the sleeping Brünnhilde in \"Die Walküre\", Act 3. A variant of the tune becomes the Woodbird's greeting \"Hei! Siegfried\" in Act 2 of \"Siegfried\". The Rhinemaidens and the Woodbird, in Deryck Cooke's analysis, are related through nature, as \"fundamentally innocent allies of the natural world\".\n\nThe \"Rhinemaidens' joy and greeting to the gold\": \"Heiajaheia, Heiajaheia! Wallalallalala leiajahei! Rheingold! Rheingold!...\" (\"Das Rheingold\" Scene 1) is a triumphant greeting song based on two elements, which are developed and transformed later in the \"Ring\" and put to many uses. For example, the joyful \"heiajaheia\" cries are converted, in \"Rheingold\" Scene 2, into a dark minor version as Loge reports the theft of the gold to the gods and the consequent rising power of the Nibelungen. The \"Rheingold!\" repetition is sung by the Rhinemaidens to the same falling step that marked the start of Woglinde's song. This figure recurs constantly in the later stages of the drama; in \"Das Rheingold\" Scene 3 a minor key version is used as a motive for the evil power of the ring that Alberich has forged from the gold. It comes to represent the theme of servitude to the ring; in \"Götterdämmerung\", enslaved to the ring by his desire for it, Hagen utters his \"Hoi-ho\" call to his vassals using the same minor two-note figure.\n\nThe lament \"Rheingold! Rheingold! Reines Gold!...\" (\"Das Rheingold\" Scene 4) is sung by the maidens at the end of \"Das Rheingold\", as the gods begin to cross the Rainbow Bridge into Valhalla. It begins with the music from the greeting, but develops into what Ernest Newman describes as a \"haunting song of loss\", which becomes increasingly poignant before it is drowned by the orchestral fortissimo that ends the opera. A slow version of the lament is played on the horns in \"Siegfried\", Act 2, as Siegfried enters Fafner's cave to claim the gold—the lament, says Cooke, serves to remind us of the gold's true ownership. The lament is played spiritedly during the \"Götterdämmerung\" prologue, as part of the orchestral interlude known as \"Siegfried's Rhine Journey\", before a shadow falls across the music as it descends into the minor key of the \"servitude\" motive.\n\nNewman describes the Rhinemaidens' scene with Siegfried\": Frau Sonne...\" and \"Weilalala leia...\" (\"Götterdämmerung\", Act 3 Scene 1), as a \"gracious woodland idyll\". The musical elements associated with the Rhinemaidens in this scene have not previously been heard; Holman describes them as alluding to the maidens' seductive nature, as well as conveying a sense of nostalgia and detachment, as the drama approaches its conclusion.\n\nFrom the first complete production of the \"Ring\", at the Bayreuth Festspielhaus in 1876, it was established that the Rhinemaidens should be depicted in conventional human form, rather than as mermaids or with other supernatural features, notwithstanding Alberich's insult to Wellgunde: \"Frigid bony fish!\" (\"Kalter, grätiger Fisch!\"). The staging of their scenes has always been a test of ingenuity and imagination, since Wagner's stage directions include much swimming and diving and other aquatic gymnastics. Traditionally, therefore, much use has been made of backdrops and lighting to achieve the necessary watery effects. Until the Second World War, under the influence of Cosima Wagner and her (and Wagner's) son Siegfried, a policy of \"stifling conservatism\" was applied to Bayreuth stagings of the \"Ring\" operas. Although there had been some innovation in productions staged elsewhere, it was not until the postwar revival of the Festival in 1951 that there were any significant changes in Bayreuth's presentation of the \"Ring\" operas. Since 1976, in particular, innovation at the Festival and elsewhere has been substantial and imaginative.\n\nIn the original 1876 production, the Rhinemaidens were wheeled around on stands behind semi-transparent screens. The stage machinery and the lighting effects were designed by Carl Brandt, who was the foremost stage technician of the time. One innovation which Cosima did eventually approve was the replacement of the wheeled stands with giant, invisible \"fishing rods\" on which the Rhinemaidens were dangled. Wires continued to be used in the Bayreuth productions of Siegfried Wagner and, later, those of his widow Winifred, who ran the Bayreuth Festival until the end of the Second World War. Similar techniques have been used in more modern productions. In the 1996 Lyric Opera of Chicago \"Ring\" cycle, repeated in 2004–05, the Rhinemaidens were suspended on bungee cords anchored in the fly space above the stage, enabling them to dive up and down, as intended by Wagner. The Rhinemaidens were played on-stage by gymnasts, mouthing words sung by singers standing in a corner of the stage.\nThe 1951 Festival production, by Siegfried's and Winifred's son Wieland, broke with tradition and featured an austere staging which replaced scenery and props with skilful lighting effects. The Rhinemaidens, along with all the other characters, were plainly dressed in simple robes, and sang their roles without histrionics. Thus the music and the words became the main focus of attention. Wieland was influenced by Adolphe Appia, whose \"Notes sur l'Anneau du Nibelungen\" (1924–25) had been dismissed by Cosima: \"Appia seems to be unaware that the \"Ring\" was performed here in 1876. It follows that the staging is definitive and sacrosanct.\" However, Wieland and his brother Wolfgang praised Appia: \"... the stylised stage, inspired by the music and the realisation of three-dimensional space – constitute the initial impulses for a reform of operatic stagings which led quite logically to the 'New Bayreuth' style.\"\n\nThe innovative centenary Bayreuth \"Ring\", directed by Patrice Chéreau, did away altogether with the underwater concept by setting the Rhinemaiden scenes in the lee of a large hydro-electric dam, as part of a 19th-century Industrial Revolution setting for the operas. For the scene with Siegfried in \"Götterdämmerung\", Chéreau altered the perpetual youth aspect of the Rhine Maidens by depicting them as \"no longer young girls merrily disporting themselves; they have become tired, grey, careworn, and ungainly\". Since this production \"the assumption of unrestricted interpretive license has become the norm\". For example, Nikolaus Lehnhoff, in his 1987 Bayerische Staatsoper production, placed the Rhinemaidens in a salon and had their lament at the end of \"Rheingold\" played on a gramophone by Loge.\nPeter Hall directed the Bayreuth \"Ring\" after Chéreau. His version, staged 1983–86, portrayed the natural innocence of the Rhinemaidens in the simplest of ways; they were naked. Keith Warner adapted this feature in his \"Ring\" production for the Royal Opera House Covent Garden, first staged 2004–06. A Covent Garden spokesman explained \"The maidens are children of innocence, a vision of nature – and as soon as someone appears they hastily throw on some clothes to protect their modesty.\" While Warner relies on lighting to achieve an underwater effect, Hall used a Pepper's ghost illusion: mirrors at a 45° angle made the Rhinemaidens appear to swim vertically when the performers were in fact swimming horizontally in a shallow basin.\n\nAlthough the roles of the Rhinemaidens are relatively small, they have been sung by notable singers better known for performing major roles in Wagnerian and other repertoire. The first person to sing the part of Woglinde in full was Lilli Lehmann at Bayreuth in 1876. In 1951, when the Bayreuth Festival re-opened after the Second World War, the same part was taken by Elisabeth Schwarzkopf. Other Bayreuth Rhinemaidens include Helga Dernesch who sang Wellgunde there between 1965 and 1967. Lotte Lehmann played Wellgunde at the Hamburg State Opera between 1912 and 1914 and the Vienna State Opera in 1916. Recorded Rhinemaidens have included Sena Jurinac for Furtwängler and RAI, Lucia Popp and Gwyneth Jones for Georg Solti, and Helen Donath and Edda Moser for Karajan.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "47725427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47725427", "title": "Secondary organic aerosols", "text": "Secondary organic aerosols\n\nSecondary Organic Aerosols or SOA are molecules produced via oxidation over several generations of a parent organic molecule. In contrast to primary organic aerosols, which are emitted directly from the biosphere, secondary organic aerosols are formed via homogeneous nucleation through the successive oxidation of gas-phase organic compounds. These gas-phase species exert high vapor pressures, meaning they are volatile and stable in the gas-phase, however, upon oxidation, the increased polarity of the molecules results in a reduction of vapor pressure. After sufficient oxidation, the vapor pressure is sufficiently low that the gas-phase compound partitions into the solid-phase, producing secondary organic matter.\n\nSOAs represent a significant proportion of aerosols contained in the troposphere.\n\nA common misconception is that the aerosol refers to the solid phase of the compound, where in reality, by definition, it is the combination of the gas- and solid-phases which constitute the aerosol.\n\n"}
{"id": "9189833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9189833", "title": "Southern Cone Mesopotamian savanna", "text": "Southern Cone Mesopotamian savanna\n\nThe Southern Cone Mesopotamian savanna, also known as the Argentine Mesopotamian grasslands, is a flooded grassland ecoregion of Argentina.\n\nThe ecoregion covers an area of , lying west of the Uruguay River in Argentina's Corrientes Province, extending north and south into adjacent portions of Missiones and Entre Ríos provinces.\n\nThe ecoregion is covered by a mosaic of seasonally wet habitats, including grasslands, marshes, woodland, and gallery forests.\n\nThe Mesopotamian savanna is an endemic bird area, with three endemic species, two of which are threatened.\n\n"}
{"id": "316532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316532", "title": "Spring (season)", "text": "Spring (season)\n\nSpring is one of the four conventional temperate seasons, following winter and preceding summer. There are various technical definitions of spring, but local usage of the term varies according to local climate, cultures and customs. When it is spring in the Northern Hemisphere, it is autumn in the Southern Hemisphere and vice versa. At the spring (or vernal) equinox, days and nights are approximately twelve hours long, with day length increasing and night length decreasing as the season progresses.\n\nSpring and \"springtime\" refer to the season, and also to ideas of rebirth, rejuvenation, renewal, resurrection and regrowth. Subtropical and tropical areas have climates better described in terms of other seasons, e.g. dry or wet, monsoonal or cyclonic. Cultures may have local names for seasons which have little equivalence to the terms originating in Europe.\n\nMeteorologists generally define four seasons in many climatic areas: spring, summer, autumn (fall) and winter. These are demarcated by the values of their average temperatures on a monthly basis, with each season lasting three months. The three warmest months are by definition summer, the three coldest months are winter and the intervening gaps are spring and autumn. Spring, when defined in this manner, can start on different dates in different regions.\n\nThus, in the US and UK, spring months are March, April and May, while in New Zealand and Australia, spring conventionally begins on September 1 and ends November 30.\n\nSwedish meteorologists define the beginning of spring as the first occasion on which the average daytime temperature exceeds zero degrees Celsius for seven consecutive days, thus the date varies with latitude and elevation.\n\nIn some cultures in the Northern Hemisphere (e.g. Germany), the astronomical vernal equinox (varying between 19 and 21 March) is taken to mark the first day of spring, and the summer solstice (around 21 June) is taken as the first day of summer. In Persian culture the first day of spring is the first day of the first month (called Farvardin) which begins on 20 or 21 March. In other traditions, the equinox is taken as mid-spring.\n\nIn the traditional Chinese calendar, the \"spring\" season () consists of the days between Lichun(February 3–5), taking Chunfen (March 20th-22nd) as its midpoint, then ending at Lixia (May 5–7). Similarly, according to the Celtic tradition, which is based solely on daylight and the strength of the noon sun, spring begins in early February (near Imbolc or Candlemas) and continues until early May (Beltane).\n\nThe beginning of spring is not always determined by fixed calendar dates. The phenological or ecological definition of spring relates to biological indicators, such as the blossoming of a range of plant species, the activities of animals, and the special smell of soil that has reached the temperature for micro flora to flourish. These indicators, along with the beginning of spring, vary according to the local climate and according to the specific weather of a particular year. Most ecologists divide the year into six seasons that have no fixed dates. In addition to spring, ecological reckoning identifies an earlier separate prevernal (early or pre-spring) season between the hibernal (winter) and vernal (spring) seasons. This is a time when only the hardiest flowers like the crocus are in bloom, sometimes while there is still some snowcover on the ground.\n\nDuring early spring, the axis of the Earth is increasing its tilt relative to the Sun, and the length of daylight rapidly increases for the relevant hemisphere. The hemisphere begins to warm significantly, causing new plant growth to \"spring forth,\" giving the season its name. \n\nAny snow begins to melt, swelling streams with runoff and any frosts become less severe. In climates that have no snow, and rare frosts, air and ground temperatures increase more rapidly.\n\nMany flowering plants bloom at this time of year, in a long succession, sometimes beginning when snow is still on the ground and continuing into early summer. In normally snowless areas, \"spring\" may begin as early as February (Northern Hemisphere) or August (Southern Hemisphere), heralded by the blooming of deciduous magnolias, cherries, and quince. Many temperate areas have a dry spring, and wet autumn (fall), which brings about flowering in this season, more consistent with the need for water, as well as warmth. Subarctic areas may not experience \"spring\" at all until May.\n\nWhile spring is a result of the warmth caused by the changing orientation of the Earth's axis relative to the Sun, the weather in many parts of the world is affected by other, less predictable events. The rainfall in spring (or any season) follows trends more related to longer cycles—such as the solar cycle—or events created by ocean currents and ocean temperatures—for example, the El Niño effect and the Southern Oscillation Index.\n\nUnstable spring weather may occur more often when warm air begins to invade from lower latitudes, while cold air is still pushing from the Polar regions. Flooding is also most common in and near mountainous areas during this time of year, because of snow-melt which is accelerated by warm rains. In North America, Tornado Alley is most active at this time of year, especially since the Rocky Mountains prevent the surging hot and cold air masses from spreading eastward, and instead force them into direct conflict. Besides tornadoes, supercell thunderstorms can also produce dangerously large hail and very high winds, for which a severe thunderstorm warning or tornado warning is usually issued. Even more so than in winter, the jet streams play an important role in unstable and severe Northern Hemisphere weather in springtime.\n\nIn recent decades, season creep has been observed, which means that many phenological signs of spring are occurring earlier in many regions by around two days per decade.\n\nSpring in the Southern Hemisphere is different in several significant ways to that of the Northern Hemisphere for several reasons, including:\n\nIn some regions, the first spring festival of the new year is Carnival, 40 days before Easter.\n\nEaster is the most important religious feast in the Christian liturgical year.\nChristians believe that Jesus was resurrected from the dead on the \"third day\" (two days \"after\" his crucifixion), and celebrate this resurrection on Easter Day, two days after Good Friday. The date of Easter varies between 22 March and 25 April (which corresponds to between 4 April and 8 May in the Gregorian Calendar for the Eastern and Oriental Orthodox Churches using the Julian Calendar). In the Southern Hemisphere Easter occurs during autumn.\n\n1 May is the date of many public holidays. In many countries, May Day is synonymous with International Workers' Day, or Labour Day, which celebrates the social and economic achievements of the labour movement. As a day of celebration, the holiday has ancient origins, and it can relate to many customs that have survived into modern times. Many of these customs are due to May Day being a cross-quarter day, meaning that (in the Northern Hemisphere where it is almost exclusively celebrated) it falls approximately halfway between the spring equinox and summer solstice. In the Celtic tradition, this date marked the end of spring and the beginning of summer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32462549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32462549", "title": "Stainless steel fiber", "text": "Stainless steel fiber\n\nStainless steel fibers are manufactured fibers composed of stainless steel. Composition may include carbon (C), silicon (Si), manganese (Mn), phosphorus (P), sulfur (S), and other elements.\n\nCurrently stainless steel fibers are manufactured primarily in Europe.\n\n\nThe most common uses for stainless steel fibers is in the field of the electrical and textiles industry such as anti-radiation cloth, thermal resistant fabric, and anti-static brushes. Many people also use stainless steel fibers in weaving. Increasingly common today are stainless steel fibers in clothing, including radiation protection for pregnant women. Stainless steel yarns are woven, braided, and knit into many industrial fabrics. For additional variety, stainless steel yarns are twisted with other fibers such as wool, nylon, cotton, and synthetic blends to produce yarns which add novelty effects to the end cloth. Stainless steel and other metal fibers are used in communication lines such as telephone lines and cable television lines. Stainless steel fibers are also used in carpets. They are dispersed throughout the carpet with other fibers so they are not detected. The presence of the fibers helps to conduct electricity so that the static shock is reduced. These types of carpets are often used in computer-use areas where risks of electrostatic discharge are much greater. Other uses include tire cord, missile nose cones, work clothing such as protective suits, space suits, and cut resistant gloves for butchers and other people working near bladed or dangerous machinery.\n\n"}
{"id": "96553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=96553", "title": "Tipua", "text": "Tipua\n\nIn Māori mythology, tipua or tupua are a type of differing shaped demon or \"uncanny thing\". Tipua could be common objects; sometimes even trees and rocks were associated as these types of spirits. These places where tipua were believed to inhabit served as areas where travelers would make offerings to the spirits of the land, in the form of herbs or branches. Neglected areas would harass travelers and visitors with such things as bad weather conditions.\n\nSome stone tipua were believed to wander from place to place. In these cases, travelers were obliged to make two offerings.\n"}
{"id": "1014354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1014354", "title": "Uniporter", "text": "Uniporter\n\nA uniporter is an integral membrane protein that transports a single type of substrate species (charged or uncharged) across a cell membrane. It may use either facilitated diffusion and transport along a diffusion gradient or transport against one with an active transport process.. They can be either ion channels or carrier proteins.\n\nUniporter carrier proteins work by binding to one molecule of substrate at a time. Uniporter channels open in response to a stimulus and allow the free flow of specific molecules.\n\nThere are several ways in which the opening of uniporter channels may be regulated:\n\n\nUniporters are involved in many biological processes, including action potentials in neurons. Voltage-gated sodium channels are involved in the propagation of a nerve impulse across the neuron. During transmission of the signal from one neuron to the next, calcium is transported into the presynaptic neuron by voltage-gated calcium channels. Potassium leak channels, also regulated by voltage, then help to restore the resting membrane potential after impulse transmission.\n\nIn the ear, sound waves cause the stress-regulated channels in the ear to open, sending an impulse to the vestibulocochlear nerve (VIII).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38622197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38622197", "title": "Vyacheslav Krasko", "text": "Vyacheslav Krasko\n\nVyacheslav Vasilyevich Krasko () (born August 6, 1974 in Leningrad, Soviet Union) is a Russian traveler, top manager and professional financier with a PhD Economics. Member of the Union of Russian Around-the-World Travelers.\n\nKrasko graduated St. Petersburg State University of Economics and Finance, with a specialty in \"World Economy\". He continued his education in France at the Economic University of Paris IX-Dauphine with the specialty \"Management of public and private enterprises\".\n\nFrom 1993 to 1999 he held main posts in the leading Russian banks, and from 1999 to 2010 he was a Financial Director in some large Russian companies.\n\nAt the beginning of April 2010 he gave up the work of Financial Director and traveled around the world. When he returned in 2011, he was invited in the Union of Russian Around-the-World Travelers and founded his touristic company “The Year of Spring” ().\n\nOn 10 October 2012 Krasko became the winner of the international photo-competition “People of India” in Naggar (the Kullu District of Himachal Pradesh, India).\n\nVyacheslav continues to travel: he has been to many places of local conflicts and ecological disasters. In 2013 he’s planning to make a journey entitled, “Ruta del Che” (“The way of Che Guevara”), by motorcycle in South America along the route of Ernesto Che Guevara, and has begun creating a feature-length fictional film, “The Year of Spring” ().\n\nHis first travel round the world began April 2010 in Asia and lasted 407 days.\n\nBeginning he flew from Moscow, he flew to Uzbekistan, then to the East, followed by going South to Australia, then to South America and North America; from North America he crossed the Atlantic Ocean to Africa, then he went across Africa and through the European countries he came back to Moscow. In total Vyacheslav visited 6 continents, 36 countries and 145 towns and cities, overcoming 137 000 km. The budget of the travel was 33 thousand U.S. dollars. The movements of the traveler were watched by a large number of people on-line at his website.\n\nAt the end of the journey Vyacheslav decided to come back to his homeland in order to share his new knowledge with others. His desire to share paired with the wishes of many people prompted him to publish a book about the project, in which everyone could feel the emotions and impressions of the traveler.\n\nIt was completed in Sarankot – a small village near Pokhara (Nepal), which is situated 5000 ft above sea level. This book (The Year of Spring: \"The Travel What Lasts a Year\") is not a novel, autobiography, or itinerary. It is a collection of stories of wanderings that touches on remembrance, love, exotic landscapes, amazing feelings, thoughts, excerpts of lovely books, the life’s hard mountain climb and descent into the depths of one’s own soul. Critics describe the main driving force of the book and basis of all Vyacheslav Krasko’s travels to be freedom and happiness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "670131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=670131", "title": "Young Bosnia", "text": "Young Bosnia\n\nYoung Bosnia (/Млада Босна) was a revolutionary movement active in the Condominium of Bosnia and Herzegovina before World War I. The members were predominantly school students, primarily Bosnian Serbs, but also Bosnian Muslims and Bosnian Croats. There were two key ideologies promoted amongst the members of the group, the Yugoslavist (unification into a Yugoslavia), and the Pan-Serb (unification into Serbia). Young Bosnia was inspired from a variety of ideas, movements, and events; such as German romanticism, anarchism, Russian revolutionary socialism, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Friedrich Nietzsche, and the Battle of Kosovo.\n\nThe rise to power of the popular Karađorđević dynasty in Serbia in the 1900s after the May Overthrow of the Obrenović dynasty by the Serbian Army in 1903, stimulated support by both Serbs and South Slavs for their unification into a state led by Belgrade. Support for revolutionary Yugoslavism in Bosnia grew with the rise of the Serbo-Croatian Progressive Organization in 1911, and drew in support for the cause from Serbs as well as Croats and some Muslims.\n\nIt was formed during the 1900s in the Condominium of Bosnia and Herzegovina (an annexed condominium of Austria-Hungary), with significant influence from neighbouring Serbia. The ideologue of Young Bosnia and tyrannicide as its method of the political struggle, was Vladimir Gaćinović. In one letter to Dedijer, one of revolutionaries from Herzegovina (Božidar Zečević) stated that the name of Young Bosnia was first mentioned by Petar Kočić in journal \"Homeland\" () in 1907. In 1911 Gaćinović published an article titled \"Young Bosnia\" in Almanac () published by Prosvjeta. The Serbian National Organization of Petar Kočić had ties with the Young Bosnia.\n\nYoung Bosnia received some assistance by the Black Hand – a secret organization founded by several members of the Serbian Army. On the other hand, Vladimir Gaćinović was the only Young Bosnia leader to join Black Hand, although he condemned the assassination in a letter (presumably as a way to strip responsibility).\n\nThe members were predominantly school students, primarily Serbs but also Bosniaks and Croats. There were several motivations promoted amongst different members of the group. There were members who promoted Yugoslavist aims of pan-South Slav unification of territories including Bosnia into a Yugoslavia. There were members who promoted Serbian nationalist aims of pan-Serb unification into Serbia. Young Bosnia was inspired from a variety of ideas, movements, and events; such as German romanticism, anarchism, Russian revolutionary socialism, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Friedrich Nietzsche, and the Battle of Kosovo.\n\nTwo notable organizations are referred to in connection with Young Bosnia: Narodna Odbrana and Black Hand.\nDuring a Serbian kangaroo court in French-occupied Salonika in 1916–17, Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević Apis testified that he had organized the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, in Sarajevo on 28 June 1914, (the assassin was Gavrilo Princip). In the process, he used not only his power over elements of the Serbian military, but also the Black Hand. Leaders of the Black Hand in turn had penetrated Narodna Odbrana and used that organization to infiltrate the arms and assassins into Sarajevo.\n\"The political union of the Yugoslavs [..] was my basic idea [..] I am a Yugoslav nationalist, aiming for the unification of all Yugoslavs, and I do not care what form of state, but it must be free from Austria\"<br>-Gavrilo Princip during his trial\n\nClaimed members of Young Bosnia who participated in the assassination were:\n\n\nAn evening before the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, Princip, Čabrinović and Ilić visited the grave of Bogdan Žerajić for the last time. Žerajić's proclamation \"He who wants to live, let him die. He who wants to die, let him live\", was quoted by Gavrilo Princip in one of the songs he wrote ().\n\nThe Museum of Young Bosnia was built in the period of SFR Yugoslavia in 1953, at the place where the assassination took place. It commemorates the assassins, popularly known in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia as the \"Vidovdan heroes\". At the front of the museum was a plaque, inscribed: \"From this place, on 28 June 1914, Gavrilo Princip, expressed with his shot the people's revolt against tyranny and their centuries-old struggle for freedom. (Са овога мјеста 28. јуна 1914. године Гаврило Принцип својим пуцњем изрази народни протест против тираније и вјековну тежњу наших народа за слободом.)\" In 1992, soldiers of the Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina destroyed both the plaque and Princip's footprints. German forces had removed the 1930 plaque in 1941. The museum still exists today, but nowadays documents aspects of life in Bosnia & Herzegovina during Austro-Hungarian rule.\n\n"}
