{"id": "46409316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46409316", "title": "AEA International Lawyers Network", "text": "AEA International Lawyers Network\n\nAll the Association members meet annually in a Congress. Until now, 10 International Congresses have been celebrated. The first International Congress was held in Madrid in September 2005. The second took place in Paris in 2006. The third was in Madrid in May 2008. The fourth was in May 2009 in Berlin. The fifth was in Rome in May 2010. The sixth was celebrated in Istanbul in June 2011. The seventh was in Saint Petersburg in May 2012. The eighth was in Mexico D.F. in May 2013. The ninth was in Amsterdam in October 2013. In the tenth Anniversary the AEA Congress was held in Athens on the 21 and 22 May 2014. The next Congress will be celebrated in Lisbon on 28 and 29 May 2015.\n\nThe celebration place is decided democratically during the previous Congress. The countries who wish to hold a Congress, make a public exposition presenting their office using videos, photographs, and a specifics proposals about their Congress. Thereby, it becomes an exposition like if it was a candidacy to the Olympics Games. During the last vote celebrated in Athens in May 2014, Lisbon, Jerusalem, Prague, Rabat and Victoria Falls were presented as candidates. The finalists were Lisbon and Jerusalem, with Lisbon the eventual winner, so they will hold the 2015 Congress. The next voting for the 2016 Congress will take place in Lisbon in May 2015.\n\nNowadays, the AEA is formed by 2.435 offices. The country with most offices is the United States. The US is followed in numbers by Germany and France. In Spain, there is also a strong office presence and practically all the provinces are covered and working mandatorily with the AEA brand.\n\nThe AEA has a fully democratic structure. The president and the other members of the Directors Board will be chosen via member votes. The voting takes place annually at the Congress.\nThe president is the lawyer Pedro Beltrán. The Board of Directors is formed by six Vice-presidents and eight other members representing different geographic areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "59181161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59181161", "title": "Anarcho-conservatism", "text": "Anarcho-conservatism\n\nAnarcho-conservatism or conservative anarchism is a political philosophy and ideology that combines anarchist politics and conservative values. Anarcho-conservatism opposes the state and all government control, while supporting social conservative policies. Conservative anarchism opposes state coercion but does not necessarily object to a naturally occurring hierarchy in certain social situations, e.g. religious institutions. Finally, it advocates the abolition of the state and the wholesale replacement of state law by moral laws. Differently from social anarchists and individualist anarchists, anarcho-conservatives don't oppose all authority, but in consonance with them, they do oppose the authority of the modern nation state, which they deem artificial.\n\nFor instance, conservative anarchists might oppose abortion, drug use and pornography, on moral grounds, while at the same time opposing their prohibition through government. This absolute rejection of the state legislation is what differentiates anarcho-conservatism from libertarianism conservatism. As conservatives typically do, conservative anarchists support traditional family structures and, much like all right-libertarian orientations, support gun and property rights. These however take a backseat to traditional and religious morality, if a conflict between them arises. In particular, this differentiates anarcho-conservatism from anarcho-capitalism.\n\nAnarcho-conservatism has much in common with paleolibertarianism, except the the support of right wing populists in political elections. Christian anarchism is an instance of anarcho-conservatism.\n\nJacques Ellul, a French philosopher and Christian anarchist, notes that the final verse of the Book of Judges (Judges 21:25) states that there was no king in Israel and that \"everyone did as they saw fit\".\nSubsequently, as recorded in the first Book of Samuel (1 Samuel 8) the people of Israel wanted a king \"so as to be like other nations\".\nGod declared that the people had rejected him as their king. He warned that a human king would lead to militarism, conscription and taxation, and that their pleas for mercy from the king's demands would go unanswered. Samuel passed on God's warning to the Israelites but they still demanded a king, and Saul became their ruler.\nMuch of the subsequent Old Testament chronicles the Israelites trying to live with this decision.\n\nThe Young England movement of the 1830s and ‘40s argued that the more feudal models of traditional aristocracy and land ownership within the framework of communities which are self-policing (i.e. each community is autonomous rather than imposed by the state) was the best path to liberty, rather than mainstream liberal models. In short, Tory anarchists might have defended traditional and hereditary institutions like monarchy and aristocracy, but they had anarchist sympathies in the sense that they did not believe in a centralised, unitary government, and sometimes saw a reactionary counterrevolution as the only path to political success.\n\nThe idea of a Tory anarchist was first coined by Orwell to describe both Jonathan Swift and himself, and at its broadest it describes someone who is both a radical and a traditionalist. To be a Tory anarchist, then, is to embrace all manner of contradictions. It is a defence of good manners, good grammar, local customs and practices, respect for the individual and for privacy and an overwhelming hostility to the expanding power of the modern state. … Orwell saw Tory anarchism as a part of Britain's, mainly England's, rich social history, manifesting itself in particular figures at different times and places. These figures include not only Swift but Parson Bull, William Cobbett, Bishop Phillpotts and Richard Oastler.\n\nThere’s not a Tory anarchist tradition exactly, but the label has been applied, with good reason, to writers like Albert Jay Nock, Evelyn and Auberon Waugh, Mencken, Florence King, Dwight Macdonald, even Orwell and Max Beerbohm.\n\nHoppe generally describes himself as libertarian or anarcho-capitalist, but I cannot see that he would reject the ultra-conservative label, or I certainly do not see how can do so consistently, since he prefers monarchy to democracy. That is he prefers rule by one hereditary individual to rule by a representative assembly, or by direct democracy, and clearly regards the global move from monarchy to democracy as regrettable. His explanation is that a hereditary ruler has a great interest in maintaining the state since it belongs to that ruler and the descendants of that ruler in perpetuity. The hereditary ruler’s interest in maintaining the state is certainly greater than that of elected politicians, as these politicians are temporary and have a greater interest in extracting resources from the state than in maintaining it’s long term existence.\n\nAlbert Jay Nock was the editor of \"The Freeman\" and \"The Nation\".Everyone knows that the State claims and exercises the monopoly of crime that I spoke of a moment ago, and that it makes this monopoly as strict as it can. It forbids private murder, but itself organizes murder on a colossal scale. It punishes private theft, but itself lays unscrupulous hands on anything it wants, whether the property of citizen or alien. There is, for example, no human right, natural or Constitutional, that we have not seen nullified by the United States Government. Of all the crimes that are committed for gain or revenge, there is not one that we have not seen it commit — murder, mayhem, arson, robbery, fraud, criminal collusion and connivance.\n\nJ. R. R. Tolkien was Professor of English Language and Literature at Oxford University, and the author of \"The Hobbit\", \"The Lord of the Rings\", and \"The Silmarillion\".My political opinions lean more and more to Anarchy (philosophically understood, meaning the abolition of control not whiskered men with bombs) — or to ‘unconstitutional’ Monarchy. I would arrest anybody who uses the word State (in any sense other than the inanimate real of England and its inhabitants, a thing that has neither power, rights nor mind); and after a chance of recantation, execute them if they remained obstinate! … Government is an abstract noun meaning the art and process of governing and it should be an offence to write it with a capital G or so to refer to people … The most improper job of any many, even saints (who at any rate were at least unwilling to take it on), is bossing other men. Not one in a million is fit for it, and least of all those who seek the opportunity … There is only one bright spot and that is the growing habit of disgruntled men of dynamating factories and power-stations; I hope that, encouraged now as ‘patriotism’, may remain a habit! But it won’t do any good, if it is not universal.\n\nPaul Weyrich was the co-founder of The Heritage Foundation, The Free Congress Foundation, and the American Legislative Exchange Council.I believe that we probably have lost the culture war. That doesn’t mean the war is not going to continue, and that it isn’t going to be fought on other fronts. But in terms of society in general, we have lost. This is why, even when we win in politics, our victories fail to translate into the kind of policies we believe are important. Therefore, what seems to me a legitimate strategy for us to follow is to look at ways to separate ourselves from the institutions that have been captured by the ideology of Political Correctness, or by other enemies of our traditional culture. I would point out to you that the word \"holy\" means \"set apart\", and that it is not against our tradition to be, in fact, \"set apart\". You can look in the Old Testament, you can look at Christian history. You will see that there were times when those who had our beliefs were definitely in the minority and it was a band of hardy monks who preserved the culture while the surrounding society disintegrated.\n\nHans-Hermann Hoppe is Professor Emeritus of Economics at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Senior Fellow of the Ludwig von Mises Institute, and founder and president of the Property and Freedom Society.Many libertarians hold the view that all that is needed to maintain a libertarian social order is the strict enforcement of the non-aggression principle (NAP). Otherwise, as long as one abstains from aggression, according to their view, the principle of “live and let live” should hold. Yet surely, while this “live and let live” sounds appealing to adolescents in rebellion against parental authority and all social convention and control (and many youngsters have been initially attracted to libertarianism believing that this “live and let live” is the essence of libertarianism), and while the principle does indeed hold and apply for people living far apart and dealing with each other only indirectly and from afar, it does \"not\" hold and apply, or rather it is \"insufficient\", when it comes to people living in close proximity to each other, as neighbors and cohabitants of the same community.A simple example suffices to make the point. Assume a new next-door neighbor. This neighbor does not aggress against you or your property in any way, but he is a “bad” neighbor. He is littering on his own neighboring property, turning it into a garbage heap; in the open, for you to see, he engages in ritual animal slaughter, he turns his house into a “Freudenhaus,” a bordello, with clients coming and going all day and all night long; he never offers a helping hand and never keeps any promise that he has made; or he cannot or else he refuses to speak to you in your own language. Etc., etc.. Your life is turned into a nightmare. Yet you may not use violence against him, because he has not aggressed against you. What can you do? You can shun and ostracize him. But your neighbor does not care, and in any case you alone thus ‘punishing’ him makes little if any difference to him. You have to have the communal respect and authority, or you must turn to someone who does, to persuade and convince everyone or at least most of the members of your community to do likewise and make the bad neighbor a social outcast, so as to exert enough pressure on him to sell his property and leave. …The lesson? The peaceful cohabitation of neighbors and of people in regular direct contact with each other on some territory – a tranquil, convivial social order – requires also a commonality of culture: of language, religion, custom and convention. There can be peaceful co-existence of different cultures on distant, physically separated territories, but multi-culturalism, cultural heterogeneity, cannot exist in one and the same place and territory without leading to diminishing social trust, increased tension, and ultimately the call for a “strong man” and the destruction of anything resembling a libertarian social order.\n\nDaniel McCarthy is the editor of \"Modern Age,\" director of the Robert Novak Journalism Fellowship Program at The Fund for American Studies, and former editor of \"The American Conservative\" (2010 – 2016).Conservatism and anarchism share some historical background, as reactions against liberalism, and they share some critiques of liberalism.  It’s not that liberalism — broadly construed to include the “classical” variety in practice as well as the modern version — is the worst socio-political system imaginable.  The various totalitarianisms of the 20th century were far worse, and anarchists and conservatives alike have to be careful that in making a deep critique of liberalism they’re not opening the door to something far deadlier. But liberalism is not the end of history, and it’s not the final picture of justice. Under the guise of democracy and markets, and human rights, various kinds of powers and interests are able to run quite unchecked.\n\nAlexander Salter is Assistant Professor of Economics in the Rawls College of Business, and the Comparative Economics Research Fellow at Texas Tech University's Free Market Institute.Embracing anarchy does not require conservatives to embrace violent revolution, or even civil disobedience. But for their own sake, as well as the sake of the civilization which they love, conservatives can and should deny the state’s legitimacy, on the grounds that it is destructive of the true, the good, and the beautiful. Affirming sovereignty in the hopes it may someday fall within conservative hands is a siren song that must be resisted.\n"}
{"id": "53436969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53436969", "title": "Anstalt", "text": "Anstalt\n\nAn Anstalt or Anstalt partnership is a type of incorporated organisation.\n\nAn Anstalt is a hybrid between a company limited by shares and a foundation. An Anstalt is an entity, which has no members, participants or shareholders. It differs from a company in that it has no duty to return profit and differs from a trust in that it has no obligation to a beneficiary. Anstalt do have, however, a holder of the founder’s rights. The founder can be either a legal person or a natural person, need not be resident in the host country and Anstalt must have a minimum capital of CHF 30 000 (approximately USD 33 800). There is also no need for the founder identity to be notified to the registration office.\n\nThese features, and the founders rights, and because an Anstalt can conduct many kinds of business, including non-trading activities (such as holding passive investments), has made them popular with foreign companies who use them as a holding company for overseas subsidiaries when trying to minimise tax in their home jurisdictions. That is Anstalt are a safe/easy place to park assets at tax time.\n\nThere are two types of Anstalt; commercial and non-commercial, and they feature prominently in the finance system of Liechtenstein, where they are considered to be a Public Law Institution, though they are not able to be listed on the Stock Exchange.\n\nAnstalt differ from the related entities called stiftung in that Anstalt can conduct all kinds of business activities. Anstalt are seen as different to Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung, a corporate type found in many German-speaking countries, which do feature members and participants.\n\nAnstalt are a civil law creation and no direct common law analogue exists.Common law courts have tended to treat Anstalt that are “limited by shares”, as a company, and those without shares (the majority) are sometimes (though not always) treated as a constructive trust.\n\nThe name Anstalt means \"Institution\" or \"Establishment\". which comes from the Middle High German Anstalt and means to set up\" [Public] purpose for a particular purpose and the building which houses it.\"\n"}
{"id": "54129450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54129450", "title": "Basque Declaration", "text": "Basque Declaration\n\nThe Basque Declaration (2016) is a formal document outlining 15 pathways for the development of more sustainable cities in Europe. The Declaration was acclaimed at the 8th European Conference on Sustainable Cities & Towns from 27-29 April 2016 in Basque Country. The document can be seen as a continuation of the Aalborg Charter (1994) and the Aalborg Commitments (2004) echoing sustainability vision from Local Agenda 21, and is itself a call for active engagement from civil society.. The vision of the Declaration is 'to create productive, sustainable and resilient cities for a liveable and inclusive Europe'\n\nThe Basque Declaration is targeted at city leaders in Europe, including mayors and city governments, and can also be signed by individuals. It outlines pathways to help city leaders shape the development of their own municipalities, and ultimately aims to accelerate socio-cultural, socio-economic and technological transformation. The Declaration is based on the understanding that a diversity of local initiatives are required to address social, environmental and economic challenges. It recognises the importance of things such as protecting biodiversity, decarbonising energy systems, creating more sustainable mobility systems, protecting water systems, adapting to climate change, promoting social inclusion and strengthening local economies, among other things. Although focusing on action at the local scale, the Declaration is underpinned by the idea of cooperation, sharing and replication of solutions adapted to the local context. A strong theme of the Declaration is to have a highly engaged civil society, where participation is a key ingredient in both developing and \"implementing\" local transformative actions.\n\nThe 15 pathways listed in the Basque Declaration are summarised under three headings:\n\nThe Socio-Cultural Transformation\n\nThe Socio-Economic Transformation\n\nThe Technological Transformation\n\nThe Declaration supports local 'transformative actions' and encourages cities to develop and share their sustainability solutions. The Sustainable Cities EU website has a central database where cities can submit their own 'transformative actions'. The idea is that local innovations can inspire other city leaders and where it is possible, help to facilitate replication of successful strategies. To encourage cities to report on their activities a 'Transformative Action Award' was created.\n\n"}
{"id": "42381594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42381594", "title": "Battle of Cúl Dreimhne", "text": "Battle of Cúl Dreimhne\n\nThe battle of Cúl Dreimhne (also known as the \"Battle of the Book\") took place in the 6th century in the túath of Cairbre Drom Cliabh (now Co. Sligo) in northwest Ireland. The exact date for the battle varies from 555 AD to 561 AD. The battle is notable for being one of the earliest conflicts over copyright in the world.\n\nAccording to tradition, sometime around 560, the Irish abbot and missionary Saint Columba became involved in a quarrel with Saint Finnian of Movilla Abbey over a psalter. Columba copied the manuscript at the scriptorium under Saint Finnian, intending to keep the copy. Saint Finnian disputed his right to keep the copy. Thus, this dispute was about the ownership of the copy (whether it belonged to Saint Columba because he copied it or whether it belonged to Saint Finnian because he owned the original). King Diarmait mac Cerbaill gave the judgement, \"To every cow belongs her calf, therefore to every book belongs its copy.\"\n\nColumba disagreed with King Diarmait's ruling against him and reportedly instigated a successful rebellion of the Uí Néill clan against the King. The battle was claimed to have caused around 3,000 casualties. It said the whole ordeal resulted in a guilt ridden Columba leave his homeland for Scotland, where he founded the Iona Abbey in 563 AD. In order to repent his misdeed he wanted to devote the rest of his life spreading the word of Christ. \n"}
{"id": "21183337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21183337", "title": "Brenton Butler case", "text": "Brenton Butler case\n\nThe Brenton Butler case (officially State of Florida v. Brenton Leonard Butler) was a murder case in Jacksonville, Florida. During the investigation of a shooting death outside a motel in 2000, police arrested 15-year-old Brenton Butler and charged him with the murder. Butler subsequently confessed to the crime, and the case went to trial. However, during the trial he testified that he had been brutalized into his confession, and he was acquitted. The case gained significant notice in the media, and became the subject of an award-winning documentary, \"Murder on a Sunday Morning\".\n\nIn May 2000, two tourists from Georgia were accosted outside the Ramada Inn on University Boulevard. Mary Ann Stephens was shot in the head in front of her husband and the killer fled. During the subsequent investigation, police picked up Butler, a 15-year-old student at Englewood High School who was on his way to submit a job application to a local Blockbuster Video. Butler was brought to the victim's husband, who identified him as the killer.\n\nPolice brought Butler in for questioning, and he confessed to the murder, both orally and in writing, in front of at least two detectives. State Attorney Harry Shorstein decided to prosecute the case. During the trial, however, Butler testified that two detectives involved in the investigation, including Michael Glover, son of the then current Sheriff Nat Glover, had intimidated and physically abused him into confessing.\n\nButler was represented by Patrick McGuinness and Ann Finnell, two attorneys from the public defenders office. They supplied a photograph of Butler with bruises on his face, which they claimed was the result of the interrogation. The jury deliberated for less than an hour before finding Butler not guilty; one juror later cited the testimony about the interrogation as one of the key factors in their decision. State Attorney Shorstein and Jacksonville Sheriff Glover took the unusual steps of apologizing to Butler and re-opening the case of two unrelated suspects. However, Michael Glover denied the allegations against him, and Shorstein said there was no evidence that Butler had been physically abused during the interrogation.\n\nAfter the case, the State Attorney's Office launched a grand jury investigation into the conduct of the officers and prosecutors, while the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office began an internal affairs investigation. The grand jury investigation criticized the prosecutor and police for their handling of the case but found no evidence of criminal wrongdoing. The police disciplinary board sought the suspension of three officers and other penalties for two more, but these measures were later largely overturned. Michael Glover retired from JSO and became a private investigator, while Dwayne Darnell was transferred from the homicide division.\n\nThe Butler case opened up discussion about the video taping of police interrogations. At the time of the investigation, the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office was in discussions over implementing video recording during interrogations. The office had purchased the equipment and was prepared to start taping interrogations, but held off at the request of the State Attorney's Office. After the grand jury investigation, the Sheriff's office began taping interrogations of juvenile suspects, and implemented other procedural changes recommended by the jury.\n\nThe Butler case was the subject of the French documentary film \"Murder on a Sunday Morning\", which won the Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature at the 74th Academy Awards in 2001. The documentary follows Butler's defense team as they build their case for his innocence. In 2004, Butler wrote a book about his experience, entitled \"They Said It Was Murder\".\n\nAfter Butler's acquittal, his attorneys tipped the Sheriff's Office to two other suspects, Juan Curtis and Jermel Williams. Williams pleaded guilty to second-degree murder and testified against his co-defendant at the trial; he was sentenced to ten years in prison. Curtis' fingerprints were found on the victim's purse, which had been recovered after the crime but had never been tested. The Butler case figured into the new trial; the judge allowed Curtis' lawyers to discuss the eye-witness identification, but ruled that Florida's evidence laws forbade them from using Butler's confession. Curtis was subsequently found guilty of first-degree murder and sentenced to life in prison. However, in 2004 appeals court found that the exclusion of the confession denied Curtis' constitutional right to a fair trial, and granted a retrial. At this second trial Curtis was found guilty and sentenced to two consecutive life terms.\n\nIn late February 2001, lawyers for the Butler family announced that they were moving forward with a civil lawsuit seeking $2.5 million in damages against the City, the Sheriff's Department and individual officers involved. Eight months later, the lawsuit was refiled, seeking $8.5 million. Finally, on April 29, 2002, the Butler family accepted a $775,000 settlement from the city. According to their attorney, the family decided to settle for various reasons, including concerns about how long the case would drag on and the difficulty in proving the case under federal civil rights law.\n"}
{"id": "17799577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17799577", "title": "CIRI Human Rights Data Project", "text": "CIRI Human Rights Data Project\n\nFrom 2004-2014, the Cingranelli-Richards (CIRI) Human Rights Data Project annually rated the level of government respect for a variety of internationally recognized human rights. The final CIRI data set contains quantitative indicators of 15 human rights for 195 countries, annually from 1981-2011. The CIRI data were used in over 170 countries by scholars, students, policymakers, and analysts representing over 400 organizations. CIRI's founders and co-directors were political scientists Dr. David Cingranelli at Binghamton University, SUNY and Dr. David L. Richards at the University of Connecticut. Dr. K. Chad Clay at the University of Georgia joined as third co-director in 2013.\n\nCIRI's data, documentation, and blog posts were archived at www.humanrightsdata.com.\n\nThe CIRI data were free for not-for-profit users. Once registered, CIRI users could create customized datsets, choosing only the indicators, countries, and years they needed; or, they could download the entire data set. As of December 2007, CIRI began using its own numeric country identifier code, but continued to offer others for the purpose of data merging. The MyCIRI feature allowed users to store their datasets on the CIRI server and easily update them when the master CIRI data was updated.\n\nFinancial support for the CIRI Data Project came from the United States' National Science Foundation; The World Bank; GTZ; Binghamton University, SUNY; the Center on Democratic Performance at Binghamton University, SUNY; The Human Rights Institute and College of Liberal Arts & Sciences at The University of Connecticut.\n\nThe CIRI database coded only human rights PRACTICES of governments. The human rights for which government levels of respect were annually rated by CIRI included:\n\n\nMost of the CIRI indicators were ratings (as opposed to rankings) on a scale of 0-2 for their respect of human rights, as follows:\n\n\nThe CIRI database used the annual country reports from the US State Department and Amnesty International as its primary sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20966189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20966189", "title": "Cain Brothers", "text": "Cain Brothers\n\nCain Brothers & Company, LLC is a boutique investment banking firm that focuses exclusively on the health care services industry and its related businesses.\n\nCain Brothers was founded in 1982 by Jim and Dan Cain based on the belief that health care organizations in the United States have unique needs that can be best addressed by professionals with knowledge of the health care delivery system as a whole. As a result, the firm’s clients are composed of nonprofit, publicly traded, and privately held health care service providers, such as hospitals, ambulatory care centers, and physician groups; third-party payors like the Blue Cross Blue Shield companies; medical technology companies; and companies that provide services to the health care industry such as information technology and real estate companies. Robert Fraiman Jr. became CEO and President on January 1, 2010, taking the reins from Jim Cain who remains on the firm’s executive committee.\n\nHeadquartered in New York, Cain Brothers has expanded alongside of the health care industry’s overall rapid growth, and the firm and its affiliates not now have personnel in nine U.S. locations.\n\nCain Brothers is active in mergers and acquisitions as exemplified by its receiving Deal of the Year honors from \"Investment Dealer's Digest\", for its representation of Caritas Christi Health Care in its sale to Cerberus Capital Management, its representation of privately owned AeroCare Holdings in its merger with MergeWorthRx Corp., a special purpose acquisition company, its representation of Centerre Healthcare in its sale to Kindred Healthcare, and its representation of U.S. Community Behavioral in that company's sale to a private equity firm. Cain Brothers is also very active in raising tax-exempt capital and FHA-insured debt for its health system and post-acute care clients.\n\nKeyCorp's corporate investment banking unit, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., on Tuesday afternoon, Aug. 15, 2017 announced a definitive agreement to acquire Cain Brothers & Co. \n\n"}
{"id": "17220354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17220354", "title": "Commission for Taxi Regulation", "text": "Commission for Taxi Regulation\n\nThe Commission for Taxi Regulation (also An Coimisiún Um Rialáil Tacsaithe and Taxi Regulator) was a public body in Ireland that existed between 2004 and 2011 regulating small public service vehicles (SPSVs) - the generic term for taxis, wheelchair accessible taxis, hackneys and limousines.\n\nTaxis and wheelchair-accessible taxis are allowed to pick up passengers in the street or at a stand and have their fares calculated by a meter; hackneys and limousines do not use meters and are not permitted to pick up passengers in the street or at a stand.\n\nThe Commission set a single maximum fare structure for taxis for all places in the Republic of Ireland, although drivers are allowed to offer discounts and customers are permitted to give tips to drivers.\n\nKathleen Doyle was appointed the Commissioner for Taxi Regulation in 2007.\n\nThe first Commissioner, Ger Deering, was appointed in 2004. He had previously been Assistant County Manager at Carlow County Council. In 2007, he left the Commission and was appointed as director of the National Employment Rights Authority.\n\nPrior to the creation of the Commission, taxi licence fees were paid to local authorities, but were paid to the Commission while it existed.\n\nThe Commission had been criticised for issuing more taxi licences than some drivers consider appropriate.\n\nIts commissioner has appeared before a joint committee of the Oireachtas (parliament) of Ireland to discuss the work of the Commission.\n\nThe Commission was dissolved when Part 4 of the \"Public Transport Regulation Act 2009\" came into force on 1 January 2011. Its functions have been transferred to the National Transport Authority.\n\n"}
{"id": "49351841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49351841", "title": "Community Charter of the Fundamental Social Rights of Workers", "text": "Community Charter of the Fundamental Social Rights of Workers\n\nThe Community Charter of the Fundamental Social Rights of Workers (9 December 1989) is a principles-based charter of human rights that apply specifically to the workforce in the European Union. It is used as an interpretative aid by the Court of Justice of the European Union in construing the meaning of legislation and developing case law. It was initially drafted in 1989. All member states have adopted the text. (Initially, the United Kingdom under Margaret Thatcher's government did not adopt the charter, but the UK subsequently adopted the Charter in 1998). \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7164760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7164760", "title": "Constitutional history of Turkey", "text": "Constitutional history of Turkey\n\nOver the centuries, Turkey has had many constitutions and can be characterized by the steady establishment of a nation-state, democratization and recognition of international law.\n\nThe Turkish constitution was ratified in 1921, revised in 1924, 1961, 1982, and most recently in 2010. A proposal for yet another constitution is being discussed, to allow Turkey to comply with EU accession political criteria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21079093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21079093", "title": "Cram down", "text": "Cram down\n\nA cram down or cramdown is the involuntary imposition by a court of a reorganization plan over the objection of some classes of creditors.\n\nWhile typically used in a corporate context, the phrase has gained popularity in the context of personal bankruptcies as a result of the financial crisis of 2007-2009. \n\nUnder current United States law, bankruptcy courts are not allowed to perform cramdowns (i.e., reduce the principal amount or change the interest rate or other terms) on creditors who hold loans secured by mortgages on debtors' primary residences. \n\nU.S. bankruptcy law provides for an automatic stay of any legal process against debtors or their assets (except perhaps legal process involving criminal law or family law) while bankruptcy is pending, but because U.S. bankruptcy courts cannot cram down loans secured by primary residences, creditors are able to file motions for relief from the stay. Once relief is granted, creditors may proceed with foreclosure \"immediately\" while debtors' other financial obligations await restructuring by the bankruptcy court. Debtors may eventually obtain discharges of their other debts, but by then, they may already have lost their homes.\n\nThe prohibition on cramdowns on loans secured by primary residences was the result of a political compromise during the process of enacting the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978. At the time, Congress was confronted with brutal stagflation in which economic stagnation was combined with sky-high inflation and interest rates, which were severely frustrating the United States' long-term federal public policy of promoting homeownership (which goes back to the National Housing Act of 1934). Congress therefore decided to shield lenders on loans secured by primary residences from cramdowns because there was evidence that they perform \"a valuable social service\" through their loans. \n\nGenerally, under risk-based pricing, a rational lender will underwrite a loan with an interest rate that correlates directly to the borrower's credit risk. That is the risk that the lender cannot recover its entire expected return on investment, which in turn includes not only the probability of default, but also any external forces (like a bankruptcy court) that could delay repayment or force the lender to write off any part of the loan. The higher the risk, the higher the interest rate. Thus, Congress reasoned, if lenders knew their loans were protected from cramdowns, then they would offer loans at lower interest rates, which in turn would mean lower monthly payments, and thereby enable more Americans to afford homes. In plain English, Congress sacrificed the interests of the minority of borrower-homeowners who default on their loans for the sake of lowering the cost of homeownership for the majority of borrower-homeowners who successfully repay their loans. \n\nThis rule was fiercely litigated in the 1980s, but the prohibitions on cramdowns on primary residences in both Chapter 7 and Chapter 13 bankruptcy proceedings were eventually upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court in the early 1990s. Finding no relief in Chapters 7 or 13, some individual borrowers tried the creative move of filing under Chapter 11 (which is normally used by corporations). As a result, the home lending industry went back to Congress, which responded by extending the cramdown restriction for loans secured by primary residences to Chapter 11 with the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1994.\n\nAs a potential solution to the subprime mortgage crisis, legislators and consumer advocates have advanced a proposal to allow cram downs on these loans, and legislation to that effect was introduced for potential inclusion in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. \n\nHowever, the financial industry strongly voiced opposition to such a measure, claiming that it would create additional uncertainty as to the value of mortgage loans (and by extension, the collateralized debt obligations into which they are bundled). In addition, like in the late 1970s, the financial industry had powerful political leverage on its side: the risk that revoking the cramdown restriction would result in higher interest rates on home loans. It was impossible to simultaneously enact a law preventing the industry from jacking up interest rates on all home loans; that would have raised the possibility of bank runs, because few investors would keep their money at an institution that is legally prohibited from setting interest rates on its loans to accurately reflect the underlying credit risk. To prevent bank runs, Congress could have simultaneously imposed capital transfer restrictions, but that would have paralyzed the global economy. As few politicians wanted to be blamed by Wall Street for making homes unaffordable or causing even more bank failures or a second Great Depression, the proposals for revoking the prevention of cramdowns on loans secured by primary residences never found much traction in Congress.\n\nThe term \"cram down\" in the reorganization context appears in case law as early as 1944.\n\nThe term (sometimes used in the phrase cram-down deal) has also gained currency to denote informally any transaction where existing investors (debt or equity) are forced by circumstance to accept an unappealing transaction, such as an expensive financing, a debt transaction that subordinates them, a dilutive equity raising, or an acquisition at an unappealingly low price.\n\n"}
{"id": "30602665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30602665", "title": "Cromwell's Act of Grace", "text": "Cromwell's Act of Grace\n\nCromwell's Act of Grace or more formally the Act of Pardon and Grace to the People of Scotland, was an Act of the Parliament of England that declared that the people of Scotland (with certain exceptions) were pardoned for any crimes they might have committed during the Wars of the Three Kingdoms. It was proclaimed at the Mercat Cross in Edinburgh on 5May 1654. General George Monck, the English Military Governor of Scotland, was present in Edinburgh, having arrived the day before for two proclamations also delivered at the Mercat Cross, the first declaring Oliver Cromwell to be the Protector of England, Ireland and Scotland, and that Scotland was united with the Commonwealth of England.\n\nAfter the English invasion of 1650, and the defeat of the Scottish armies at the battles of Dunbar, Inverkeithing and Worcester, Scotland was placed under English military occupation with General Monck as military governor of the country. Up to the date of the Act of Grace the English army had been able to suppress the Scottish resistance to the occupation with relative ease and the occupation, with sporadic but ineffective resistance, would continue throughout the Interregnum up until the Restoration in 1660.\n\nThe Act had its origins in the English written constitution of December 1653, called the Instrument of Government. Between December 1653 and the calling of the First Protectorate Parliament that sat for the first time in September 1654, the Lord Protector Oliver Cromwell and his Council of State were granted under the Instrument of Government the power \"to make laws and ordinances for the peace and welfare of these nations where it shall be necessary\" and on 12 April 1654 the regime passed a number of ordinances pertaining to the government of Scotland:\n\nThe content of the Act of Grace contained:\n\nThe first and second paragraphs drew a line under Wars of the Three Kingdoms. Oliver Cromwell the Lord Protector of the Commonwealth of England, Scotland and Ireland, and the Dominions of those nations, ordained that on 1 May 1654, with the exceptions laid out in paragraphs that followed \"in this Ordinance\", that the People of Scotland were pardoned for any crimes they might have committed during the preceding wars and that there would be no further financial or other punishments.\n\nThe rest of the ordinance proceeded to list the various exceptions to the general pardon and clarification of some of the details.\n\nThe third paragraph excepted royal estates and other possessions in Scotland and so allowed for the sequestration by the Commonwealth . The wording also covered royal possessions that might have been passed to others since 1 May 1642.\n\nThe fourth paragraph listed twenty four men whose estates were excepted and forfeited to the Commonwealth (See Appendix A), and like the Royal estates this was backdated to cover the estates as they were on 18 April 1648. Also, almost as a post script to the paragraph, a twenty fifth man, James, 1st Lord Mordington, had his estates of \"Maudlain Field, Sunck, Cony-garth, Constables-Batt, Two Watermills, and a Wind-mill lying within Barwick bounds.\" confiscated.\n\nThe next paragraph arranged for the confiscation of the estates of certain categories of Scots who had opposed the English Parliament since 1648 and were still under arms against the English Commonwealth after 3 September 1650 or were not now considered by Oliver Cromwell to be reconciled to the new regime. Those who could be excluded by this paragraph were Scottish MPs who had not signed the Protestation against the invasion of England in 1648, those men who sat in the Scottish Parliament or were a member of the Committee of Estates of Scotland after the coronation Charles II (in 1651), or were in the Scottish army after the Battle of Dunbar on 3 September 1650 (which included all those who had taken part in the Worcester Campaign).\n\nThe following paragraph limited the time creditors had to put in claims against the forfeited estates. Claims had to be lodged with named representatives, within 60 days of the proclamation of the ordinance.\n\nThe next three paragraphs granted certain lands to the named wives and children of those who's estates had been confiscated, under the condition that they pay rent to the Protector for those lands and that they renounced any claims they had to other properties which previously belonged to those excluded from the general pardon.\n\nSeventy three men were fined (see Appendix B). The ordinance included details of how the fines were to be paid and what was to happen if the fine was not paid. The money was to be paid to Gilbert [George] Bilton, deputy treasurer at Leith. Half was to be paid on, or by, 2 August 1654 and the other half on, or by, 2 December 1654. If a person defaulted on payment then their estate were to be confiscated by the commissioners for sequestration.\n\nThe last few paragraphs of the Ordinance laid on certain points so that it was clear that this Ordinance could not be used to frustrate some other points of law that the drafters of the ordinance saw as potential legal problems.\n\nThe Ordinance could not be read as restoring or reviving of any lordship, dominion, jurisdiction, tenure, superiority, or any thing whatsoever, abolished by An Ordinance for Uniting Scotland into one Commonwealth with England.\n\nThe general pardon did not extend to those persons in arms since 1 May 1652 who would remain subject to the Articles of War. The general pardon could not be construed to extend, to the freeing or discharging of any prisoners or prisoners of war, from their respective imprisonments or their promises and surety for release from that imprisonment.\n\nThe final paragraph negated any reading of the ordinance that might be construed to reduce the revenues that formally went to the Crown and should not go to the Lord Protector.\n\nAlthough the ordinance had been issued on 12 April 1654, and then proclaimed in Scotland on 5 May 1654, like the other ordinances pertaining to Scotland issued on 12 April 1654, it did not become enacted until an enabling act, called \"Act touching several Acts and Ordinances made since the twentieth of April, 1653, and before the third of September, 1654, and other Acts\" was consented to by the Lord Protector on the 26 June 1657, the same day that the enabling bill was approved by the Second Protectorate Parliament.\n\n\nThe following list of prominent opponents of the Commonwealth were exempted from the general pardon and had their estates forfeited:\nThe following people were fined:\n"}
{"id": "40335212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40335212", "title": "Declaration recognising the Right to a Flag of States having no Sea-coast", "text": "Declaration recognising the Right to a Flag of States having no Sea-coast\n\nThe Declaration recognising the Right to a Flag of States having no Sea-coast () is a 1921 multilateral treaty which legally recognised that a land-locked state could be a maritime flag state; that is, that a land-locked state could register ships and sail them on the sea under its own flag.\n\nAs of 2013, the Declaration has been ratified by over 50 states, and international law recognises the right of any state to sail ships on the sea under its own flag. Today, land-locked states which have merchant vessel fleets include Austria, Azerbaijan, Bolivia, Ethiopia, Hungary, Laos, Luxembourg, Mongolia, Moldova, Paraguay, Slovakia and Switzerland.\n\nIn the first two decades of the 20th century, there had been uncertainty as to whether a land-locked state could register maritime ships and authorise them to sail under its flag: the Republic of France, the United Kingdom, and the Kingdom of Prussia had argued that such a right could not exist because it would place a land-locked state in the position of being unable to control the behavior of ships of bearing its flag because of the state's inability to unreservedly access ports and the sea. Prior to World War I, Switzerland had denied several requests from merchant ships to fly the Swiss flag.\n\nAfter World War I, the creation of several new landlocked states, such as Czechoslovakia, Austria, and Hungary, caused the Great Powers to reconsider the issue. The Treaty of Versailles had included provisions by which Germany agreed to allow these landlocked states to transit goods and personnel across German territory freely to seaports, which suggested that such states may also have their own merchant vessels in such ports.\n\nThe Declaration was created to reflect the new consensus and was concluded and signed on 20 April 1921 by 25 states in Barcelona, Spain, at the League of Nations Conference on Communications and Transit, as an addendum to the longer Barcelona Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navigable Waterways of International Concern, which was concluded on the same day. The Declaration entered into force on 8 October 1921.\n\nThe text of the Declaration states:\nThe undersigned, duly authorised for the purpose, declare that the States which they represent recognise the flag flown by the vessels of any State having no sea-coast which are registered at some one specified place situated in its territory; such place shall serve as the port of registry of such vessels.<br>\nBarcelona, April the 20th, 1921, done in a single copy of which the English and French texts shall be authentic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24207411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24207411", "title": "Dongan Charter", "text": "Dongan Charter\n\nThe Dongan Charter is the 1686 document incorporating Albany, New York as a city. Albany's charter was issued by Governor Thomas Dongan of the Province of New York, a few months after Governor Dongan issued a similarly worded, but less detailed charter for the city of New York. The city of Albany was created three years after Albany County. The charter is the oldest existing city charter still in force in the United States and \"arguably in all the Western Hemisphere\", according to Stefan Bielinski, former senior historian of the New York State Museum. In 1936 the United States Congress commemorated the charter's 250th anniversary by minting a half dollar coin.\n\nAfter the city of New York received a municipal charter from Governor Dongan the governor came to Albany, at which time the village sent a delegation of prominent men to request a charter of their own. The Patroon, after being encouraged by the governor, finally released all claims to Albany and forfeited a strip of land wide and long to Albany. Albany at the time consisted of about 500 residents living in around 140 houses. In July 1686 a delegation led by Pieter Schuyler and Robert Livingston traveled to New York to receive the charter for Albany; the charter was signed on July 25, 1686 and was read aloud to the citizens of Albany three days later. Due to England, and by extension Albany, using the Julian calendar at the time, the corrected date for the signing of the document under the Gregorian calendar is August 1, 1686.\n\nDuring Leisler's Rebellion Jacob Leisler demanded the charters of Albany and the city of New York be forfeited, and New York yielded but Albany's mayor, Pieter Schuyler, refused. Schuyler went on to become one of the major leaders in suppressing the rebellion. The next major threat to the charter government came during the American Revolution when the Common Council stopped meeting in 1775. The local Committee of Safety took over daily functions until 1778 when the Common Council began meeting again.\n\nA \"Dongan Charter Parade\" was held in 1936 for the 250th anniversary celebrations, and as part of the ceremonies the United States Congress authorized the minting of an Albany Charter half dollar coin. Tricentennial celebrations held in 1986 included a re-enactment of the signing and awarding of the charter by Governor Mario Cuomo playing Governor Dongan, and Mayor Thomas Whalen playing Mayor Schuyler. Other events during the tricentennial were fireworks, music, the unveiling of a tricentennial clock, a hot-air balloon lift-off from Lincoln Park, and a cake large enough to feed thousands. Mayors from other Albanys around the world were among the visiting dignitaries who were invited to the ceremonies and given a tour of the city by Mayor Whalen.\n\nThe charter turned the village of Albany into a city under the name of \"The Mayor, Aldermen, and Commonalty of the city of Albany\";. This legally separated it from Rensselaerswyck, a nearby colonial estate. The charter also established Albany's boundaries and a municipal government, as well as specifically naming the first officers. Certain special rights were put into the charter as well, such as the exclusive right to negotiate with the Native Americans. It also established Albany as the sole market town in the upper Hudson region, with the right to purchase land at Tionnderoge and Schaghticoke.\n\nThe mayor of Albany was the executive officer and selected by the Lieutenant Governor. He was also designated as the clerk of the marketplace and the coroner for both the city and Albany County. Two alderman and two assistant aldermen were chosen from each ward and sat on the Common Council along with the mayor and recorder. The mayor, recorder, and aldermen were also justices, the assistants however did not have any judicial powers.\n\nThe sole right to issue trading privileges anywhere in Albany County rested with the mayor and Common Council. Albany County encompassed all of Upstate New York north and west of Ulster County at that time, as well as the state of Vermont. All residents of New York, except those of Albany, were specifically banned from trading with any Iroquois nation, or with any other native tribe to the west, east, or north of the city of Albany, or with native tribes anywhere within Albany County.\n\nThe Dongan Charter was first amended on March 21, 1787 to remove the mayor's powers to act as the city and county's sole coroner, and to regulate trade with Indians. It continued to be used with only minor changes until March 16, 1870, when it saw major changes by the state legislature in 1870 and 1883. In the 1870 revision, the city's official name was changed from \"The Mayor, Aldermen, and Commonalty of the city of Albany\" to the \"City of Albany\". In 1998, the charter was almost completely rewritten after a municipal referendum. Legally, however, the revised charter was reckoned as an amendment to the Dongan Charter.\n\nThe United States Congress authorized on June 16, 1936 the minting of 25,000 half dollar coins celebrating the 250th anniversary of the Dongan Charter.\n\n"}
{"id": "3162381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3162381", "title": "Dropping the writ", "text": "Dropping the writ\n\nDropping the writ is the informal term for a procedure in some parliamentary government systems, where the head of government (that is the prime minister, premier or chief minister, as the case may be) goes to the head of state and formally advises him or her to dissolve parliament. By convention, the head of state grants the request and issues writs of election for new members of parliament. The usage of the word \"drop\" in this context is likely derived from the phrase \"draw up\".\n\nThe head of state usually has the right to refuse the request, in which case the prime minister is required by convention or statute to resign. For example, in the case of a minority government, the head of state can deny the request for dissolution and ask the leader of another parliamentary party to form a government. In some cases, such as with the President of Ireland, there are specific limitations on when a head of state can refuse this request. Even under these circumstances, this right is rarely exercised, as it is likely to precipitate a constitutional crisis (see, for example, the King-Byng Affair of 1926) – it is possible that this right, of a head of state to refuse a dissolution, has become a lapsed power. However, there is a more recent example in the 1985 election in Ontario. The incumbent Progressive Conservative party was reduced to minority status, and lost a confidence motion. Lieutenant Governor John Black Aird asked the opposition Liberal leader to form a government, with third-party NDP support, rather than issuing new writs of election.\n\nUsually, according to parliamentary law, the head of government must regularly call an election but, it is otherwise within their discretion when to drop the writ, up to the time when the parliament has served its full term. At that point, an election must be called by issuing the writs. An exception to this principle is if a fixed-term election law has been enacted.\n\nIn some states and territories of Australia, such as New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and the Australian Capital Territory, it is normally required by law that the parliament must run its full term before issuing the writs. Early dissolutions are allowed by the Governor (NSW, Vic, SA) or federal Minister for Territories (ACT) only if certain objective criteria are met - in particular, if the parliament is unable to agree on the annual budget. Similarly, in New Zealand, it is the norm for parliament to run full term unless the prime minister cannot govern or feels they must bring an important issue before the nation.\n\nOpposition parties can bring down the government by passing a motion of no confidence, in which the prime minister is required by convention or specific law to either drop the writ or resign; parliaments do not have the right to force the prime minister to drop the writ.\n\nThe phrase \"drop the writ\" is a debased form of the phrase \"draw up the writ\". Although it is still considered stylistically inappropriate by some, who assert that the correct phrase is, \"the writs are issued\" or \"the writs are drawn up,\" the phrase is nevertheless widely used in edited copy.\n"}
{"id": "32226682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32226682", "title": "Empire Ranch", "text": "Empire Ranch\n\nEmpire Ranch is a working cattle ranch in southeastern Pima County, Arizona, that was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1976. In its heyday, Empire Ranch was one of the largest in Arizona, with a range spanning over 180 square miles, and its owner, Walter L. Vail, was an important figure in the establishment of southern Arizona's cattle industry.\n\nEmpire Ranch is located on the eastern slope of the Santa Rita Mountains in Cienega Valley, fifty-two miles southeast of Tucson and about ten miles north of Sonoita. The property overlooks a shallow depression called Empire Gulch, through which a spring-fed rivlet bordered by cottonwoods courses eastward to Cienega Creek. The surrounding meadows are \"thickly covered\" with sacaton and salt grass. Tucson businessman Edward Nye Fish first occupied the site of the ranch in 1871, but it is uncertain whether or not he built the original four-room adobe house and corral, which may have already been there when he arrived.\n\nOn August 22, 1876, an Easterner named Walter L. Vail and his English business partner, Herbert R. Hislop, purchased Empire Ranch and its 612 head of cattle from Fish and his partner, Simon Silverberg, who had acquired the 160 acre tract only two months earlier from Fish's brother-in-law, William Wakefield, at a price of $500. Fish and Silverberg wanted $3,800 for the ranch and cattle; but to expedite the sale, they settled on a considerably lower price of $1,174. Vail and Hislop immediately began expanding their holdings in the area by acquiring new lands and improving the ranch's infrastructure. In its heyday, Empire controlled 180 square miles of rangeland between the Santa Rita, Rincon, Whetstone, and Huachuca Mountains.\n\nWhen Walter's wife, Margaret, arrived from New Jersey in the summer of 1881, Vail undertook a variety of improvements on the ranch house. Up to that time, Walter had added only a kitchen, pantry, cook's room, and business office to the original four-room structure - just enough to accommodate the cowboys who worked the ranch. Shortly after Margaret's arrival, Walter built her an eight-room addition to the earlier dwelling, including two bedrooms, a living room, a dining area and a covered porch. The imposing structure boasted twelve-foot high ceilings, three stone fireplaces for heating, and a fashionable half-hexagon bay window opening off the living room. The Empire Ranch house became a showplace ranch house in southern Arizona. The red-shingled adobe building proved so attractive that, contrary to the common practice among territorial ranch families, Margaret chose to live on the ranch instead of at a separate residence in Tucson. More rooms were added as the years went on, resulting in the current twenty-two room house that is preserved today.\n\nThe origin of the name Empire Ranch remains unclear. Walter's brother, Edward, said that Walter renamed the Fish holdings after acquiring the property in 1876, claiming \"he would make an Empire of it someday.\" However, in writing to his sister on November 25, 1876, Herbert Hislop stated: \" ...it was called the Empire Ranch before we bought it and we have not altered the name.\" Other accounts suggest that either Fish called the quarter-section spread \"the Empire\" in a promotional flurry to make it more attractive, or that William Wakefield named the ranch after the nearby Empire Mountains. The evidence weighs against Edward Vail's romanticized version.\n\nVail and Hislop hoped to increase their herd of cattle to about five thousand head. To underwrite expansion and help meet their debts, they took in a third partner in October 1876. Another Englishman, John H. Harvey, had heard about the ranch through Walter's uncle, Nathan. Nathan Vail had been a friend and one-time business partner of Harvey's uncle in England. Learning that John Harvey had money to invest, Nathan had encouraged him to visit Tucson and the Empire Ranch, which he did in the early weeks of October. The wealthy Englishman, although inexperienced at ranching, saw strong potential for the small ranching venture and joined the partnership. The firm changed its name to Vail, Hislop, and Harvey. The neighboring cattlemen called them the \"English Boys' Outfit.\" To keep pace with its new identity, the Empire changed horse brands from \"V\" to \"VH,\" but kept the familiar heart-shaped brand for the cattle.\n\nIndian raids were an ever-present threat, and nearby ranches stopped operation. The Empire, however, remained to fight for their land and their horses (which were considered the prize to the Indians). In the earliest years, hostile Apaches were an ever-present threat to the ranching operations. The Chiricahua Apaches, who had been moved to the San Carlos Indian Reservation in June 1876, became restless and fled south to their old haunts in the Whetstone and Chiricahua Mountains. Roving bands raided ranches throughout the Cienega Valley, escaping to the nearby hills with a prized booty of horses. Ranchers who sought to retrieve their stack often came back empty-handed, or failed to return at all. In the face of increasing raids, several ranchers near the Empire abandoned their holdings and moved to Tucson. Vail and Hislop, however, were willing to \"shoot the renegades on sight.\"\n\nThe ranch's isolation and its herd of workhorses made it a likely target for attack. The ranch lay a full day's ride by horseback from Tucson. The only major ranch in the vicinity was Don Sanford's Stock Valley Ranch, located five miles northeast. Vail and Hislop knew that help would not be forthcoming in the event of a raid. The horses had to be constantly guarded. During the day, the riding stock, which numbered nine saddle horses, twenty brood mares, and twelve colts, grazed in a large fenced-in pasture 600 feet from the ranch house. At night they corralled their stock in an adobe enclosure attached to the house. The possibility of a devastating loss of riding stock remained foremost in their thoughts, as Hislop reflected: \"How long we shall keep them out of Apaches' hands I do not know, as I suspect we being the only owners of any number of horses around here, that they will pay us a visit.\"\n\nThe Indian activity prompted the United States Army to take action. Writing to his brother, Edward Vail, on January 20, 1876, Walter reported that \"this last outbreak has made so much talk that the Government is going to establish a fort 25 miles south of our place, which I hope will put a stop to Indian trouble in this part of the country.\" As anticipated, the army established Camp Huachuca on March 3, 1877. However, the camp was too distant to provide protection for the Cienega Valley. Vail and his partners refused to be terrorized by the Apaches. They instructed their cowboys to ride the range well-armed and never alone. Even when renegades were reported in the vicinity the cattlemen would not curtail ranch activities. As Edward Vail related: \"... the Indians were supposed to be out, but we never stayed home on that account, as it was necessary to keep working.\"\n\nThe youthful cattlemen did not suffer greatly from the Apaches. They struck repeatedly in the vicinity but made off with only two horses of the \"VH\" brand. In a series of raids between August 1876 and February 1877, they stole several herds of livestock and killed three cowboys immediately south of the ranch, but each time skirted around the property. Yet not until Geronimo's renegades surrendered to General Nelson A. Miles on September 4, 1886, did the owners of Empire Ranch completely relax.\n\nAn opportunity to build the Empire herd came in January 1877. The three cattlemen, hoping to avoid the expense and trouble of driving herds from distant ranges, had made inquiries about other cattle in southern Arizona. In the latter part of January, they learned that S. S. \"Yankee\" Miller, foreman for John Chisum's ranch on the San Pedro River near St. David, had driven a large herd of Durhams, Herefords, and longhorns from New Mexico to the vicinity of Benson. Vail visited Miller at his Benson encampment and purchased 793 cattle at fourteen dollars per head. In the same exchange, Vail disposed of 620 sheep that he had previously bought from his neighbor, Henry M. Kemp. The flock had been a constant nuisance; and Vail gladly parted with them, even at a loss of forty cents per head.\n\nThe transaction was not without incident, though. Before Vail could remove the herd, a band of Chiricahua Apaches silently approached Miller's compound and crept away with all their horses under cover of darkness. Vail awoke before dawn to discover the loss. Several of the trail crew set out on foot to pursue the thieves south to the Whetstone Mountains but en route dropped the plan for fear the Apaches might outnumber them in their mountain stronghold. They went back by Empire Ranch and picked up enough horses to enable them to safely drive the cattle from the Chisum range to the ranch. In this incident, the Empire's closest scrape with Apaches, Vail had been fortunate; he had lost only one horse, none of the cattle, and no one had been hurt.\n\nIn the late spring of 1877, Vail, Hislop, and Harvey decided to introduce better bred beeves into their herd. In April, Walter Vail rode east with Miller and a Chisum trail outfit to John Chisum's Long Rail Ranch on the Pecos River in New Mexico. Here, Vail purchased forty Durham bulls from Chisum, but injured his knee before he could start back to Arizona. Leaving the cattle, he went to a cousin's home in Netawaka, Kansas, and spent five painful months recuperating. In the fall, Vail and several Chisum trailhands drove the blooded bulls through Apache-controlled territory to the Empire Ranch.\n\nDuring Vail's absence, Hislop and Harvey had trouble with a sheepherder settling adjacent to Empire Ranch. The neighbor refused to contain his flock on his own range and arrogantly drove them onto the ranchland to water. When the sheep crowded along Cienega Creek, cattle were forced to scatter and move away from the water. The situation infuriated Hislop, who warned the trespasser to stay clear of their land or they would stampede his sheep. The sheepman ignored Hislop's warnings, and the prospect of range warfare loomed.\n\nOn February 4, 1878, Hislop wrote the following in a letter to his sister:\n\nAlthough the dispute never erupted into conflict, it was a decisive factor in Hislop's decision to give up ranching and return to England. By March 1878, he became annoyed at Vail and Harvey's reluctance to market livestock and recoup their initial investment costs. The partners wanted to delay sales until their herds had produced several calf crops. The troublesome neighbor only reinforced Hislop's distaste for the entire ranching venture. Vail urged him to reconsider, but Hislop would not be swayed. Walter borrowed $6,850 from his Aunt Anna, Nathan's wife, and bought Hislop's interest in the ranch. Upon his departure, Hislop announced that he would never return to \"this bloody country again.\"\n\nWithin a year of Hislops departure, Vail and Harvey welcomed a new partner, Walter's older brother Edward. Edward \"Ned\" Vail had corresponded with Walter since 1876 and shared his brother's belief that the cattle trade would soon be a large and prosperous industry in Arizona. Ned had been brought up on the family farm in New Jersey and then worked seven years in a ship chandler's store in New York City. Like Walter, Ned had no experience with cattle when he arrived at Empire Ranch on May 14, 1879. Walter immediately put his brother to work on the range, thereby forcing Edward to acquire a cattleman's skill and \"carry his weight\" at the ranch.\n\nWhile Walter and his partners were readying their first cattle for market, a silver discovery was made near Empire Ranch which vitally affected its destiny. In January 1879, an itinerant prospector named John T. Dillon, located three mining claims on the boulder-strewn eastern slope of the Empire Mountains. \"The whole damned hill is a total wreck,\" Dillon remarked to co-claimants Walter L. Vail and John A. Harvey. Vail and Harvey liked the description and christened one of the three sites the \"Total Wreck.\" Legal entanglements prevented immediate exploitation of the claim; but when the court re-affirmed their title, the owners incorporated the operation as the Total Wreck Mining and Milling Company.\n\nIn 1881, Walter and Nathan Vail secured full control of the corporation, sold shares of the company in New York City, and launched a large-scale development at the Total Wreck. Two years later, its production rivaled that of the most prosperous mines in Arizona Territory. However, the depression in silver prices in 1884 crippled the operation, and the Vails closed it three years later when ore yields fell too low for profit. Although the Total Wreck prospered for only a brief period, it produced over $500,000 in revenue, which contributed significantly to the expansion and development of Empire Ranch.\n\nIn 1886, the ranch was incorporated as the Empire Land and Cattle Company, with California entrepreneur Carroll W. Gates buying half-interest in 1889. The Empire management searched out new markets in Kansas City and Los Angeles when the home market collapsed in the mid-1880s. Vail and Gates bought or leased additional grasslands in Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, and California during drought years of the early nineties. While furthering his own business, Vail argued prominently for cattlemen's interests as a legislator, county supervisor, and president of the Livestock Ranchman's Association.\n\nBy 1898, the Vails had nearly forty thousand cattle, most of which were Herefords, on their combined ranges. Vail and Gates converted the home ranch fully to \"breeder-feeder\" operations, with Arizona-bred cattle shipped outside the territory to fatten. Beginning in 1902, they siphoned corporate assets into lucrative real estate, horse raising, and resort investments on the West Coast. For a time, California endeavors profited Vail and Gates more so than the Arizona ranch. Although Walter Vail died in 1906, his heirs operated Empire Ranch by the same, successful principles Walter had used, until its final sale to the Boice, Gates and Johnston company in 1928.\n\nBy 1951, Frank Boice and his family assumed full control of the property. Around the same time, the ranch was featured in several Western films starring many of Hollywood's most famous actors, such as John Wayne, Gregory Peck and Steve McQueen. In 1969, Empire Ranch was sold to the Gulf American Corporation for a proposed real estate development and later resold to the Anamax Mining Company for mining and water potential. None of these developments materialized, and the ranch continues to work with cattle. In the 1980s, the owners began to restore the buildings to their original state and in 1988 the ranch became public land administered by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The Empire Ranch Foundation was established as a private non-profit organization in 1997 to work with the BLM to develop private support to preserve the buildings and enhance the educational and recreational opportunities it offers to the public. In 2000, Congress combined Empire Ranch and the surrounding ranchland with the Las Cienegas National Conservation Area.\n\n"}
{"id": "19476213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19476213", "title": "Enforcement Act of 1870", "text": "Enforcement Act of 1870\n\nThe Enforcement Act of 1869, also known as the Civil Rights Act of 1870 or First Ku Klux Klan Act, or Force Act was a United States federal law written to empower the President with the legal authority to enforce the first section of the Fifteenth Amendment throughout the United States. The act was the first of three Enforcement Acts passed by the United States Congress from 1870 to 1871 during the Reconstruction Era to combat attacks on the suffrage rights of African Americans from state officials or violent groups like the Ku Klux Klan.\n\nThe act would develop from separate legislative actions in the House and Senate. H.R. 1293 was introduced by House Republican John Bingham from Ohio on February 21, 1870, and discussed on May 16, 1870. S. 810 grew from several bills from several Senators. Senator George F. Edmunds from Vermont submitted the first bill, followed by Sen. Oliver P. Morton from Indiana, Sen. Charles Sumner from Massachusetts, and Sen. William Stewart from Nevada. After three months of debate in the Committee on the Judiciary, the final Senate version of the bill was introduced to the Senate on April 19, 1870. The act was passed by Congress in May 1870 and signed into law by President Ulysses S. Grant on May 31, 1870.\n\nThe Enforcement Act of 1870 prohibited discrimination by state officials in voter registration on the basis of race, color, or previous condition of servitude. It established penalties for interfering with a person's right to vote and gave federal courts the power to enforce the act. The act also authorized the President to employ the use of the army to uphold the act and the use of federal marshals to bring charges against offenders for election fraud, the bribery or intimidation of voters, and conspiracies to prevent citizens from exercising their constitutional rights.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25886753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25886753", "title": "Fiji–France Maritime Delimitation Agreement", "text": "Fiji–France Maritime Delimitation Agreement\n\nThe Fiji–France Maritime Delimitation Agreement is a 1983 treaty between France and Fiji which establishes the maritime boundary between Fiji and the French special collectivity of New Caledonia and the boundary between Fiji and the French overseas collectivity of Wallis and Futuna.\n\nThe treaty was signed in Suva on 19 January 1983. The text of the treaty is brief and states that the boundaries will be set by the principle of setting an equidistant line between the territories.\n\nThe boundary with New Caledonia is to the southwest of Fiji and consists of one maritime straight-line segment defined by two specific points. For purposes of drawing the border, the treaty assumes that France has sovereignty over Matthew and Hunter Islands, but since Vanuatu also claims sovereignty over the islands, the treaty states that the treaty is \"without prejudice to the sovereign rights of any neighbouring State\".\n\nThe boundary with Wallis and Futuna is to the northeast of Fiji and consists of four straight-line segments, defined by five individual coordinate points.\n\nThe agreement came into force on 21 August 1984, after both states had ratified it. The Fiji – Wallis and Futuna boundary was adjusted slightly by a 1990 codicil to the treaty.\n\nThe full name of the treaty is \"Agreement between the Government of the Republic of France and the Government of Fiji relating to the Delimitation of their Economic Zone\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4545618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4545618", "title": "Free High School Science Texts", "text": "Free High School Science Texts\n\nThe Free High School Science Texts (FHSST) organization is a South African non-profit project, which creates open textbooks on scientific subjects. Textbooks are edited to follow the government's syllabus, and published under a Creative Commons license (CC BY), allowing teachers and students to print them or share them digitally.\n\nFHSST was conceived in 2002 by Mark Horner, a physicist, when some rural South African children asked him to proofread notes that they had taken on a talk he gave on wave phenomena. The children intended to take the notes back to their schoolmates to use it as a textbook on the subject.\n\nFHSST has released books for grades 10-12 on physics, chemistry and mathematics. They are developing books in life sciences and computer literacy and a guide to teach students how to study.\n\n"}
{"id": "20169505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20169505", "title": "History of marriage in California", "text": "History of marriage in California\n\nThe recorded history of marriage in California is long and encompasses a period as far back as the first Spanish missions and even further back in unrecorded history of Native American Indians and their marriage rituals.\n\nCalifornia was incorporated into the United States of America in 1850.\n\nWhile the Native Americans of California did not document their culture in the same way western civilization did, we still have a great deal of knowledge from archaeological evidence as well as the earliest records of the Spanish missions.\n\nNative communities in southern California of the Chumash Indians, practiced Matrilocal residence. The husband would move to the community of the wife. The exception to this rule being the chief, whose wife would move to live with the chiefs community. The chief was also the only one of the community with the option of multiple marriage.\n\nThe founding of the California missionary system by the Spanish began in 1697 located in Baja with the founding of Nuestra Senora de Loreto. Several times during the Jesuit period, Indians revolted against church doctrine against polygamy.\n\nClemente Guillen, S. J., of Delores mission in Baja California reported in 1744 that he had destroyed the tables and paraphernalia of the Indian shaman and that same year Joseph de Torres Pereas noted the survival of marriage ceremonies indicated that shaman had been convincing adults not to accept baptism.\n\nWhile the Franciscan Missions strived to incorporate the native California Indians into their fold, they worked hard to eliminate all marriage and family customs the Spanish Catholic Church disapproved of or found repugnant.\n\nThe church was anxious to legitimize the marriages of natives through Catholic ceremonies. Northern California Missions recorded the marriage of 2300 marriages of Native Americans previously joined by native custom with five thousand new unions and ten thousand neophyte widows and widower remarried.\n\nMarriage between native Indian woman and Spanish men was encouraged by the California missions to increase the population and Spanish political power. Rape and other forms of violence was however a concern. Spanish Soldiers and settlers of a patriarchal colonial society put native woman in a vulnerable state.\n\nAuthor, Charles Francis Saunders has documented the details of a California Mission wedding ceremony from the 1890s in his book, \"Capistrano Nights – Tales of a California Mission Town\".\n\nIn 1829 a controversy erupted when the Spanish Governor was asked to intervene in the marriage between a local San Diego Spanish woman and a foreigner.\n\nMaria Antonia Natalia Elija Carrillo was born November 27, 1810. Called Josefa, after her grandmother, she was the eldest of thirteen children born to Maria Ygnacia Lopez and Joaquin Victor Carrillo. Influential and socially well connected, the family was related to several other prominent Californians of the day. At the time the youth of California were pressured to marry early.\n\nInstead of marrying another Californian, Carrillo fell in love with American merchant seaman, Henry Delano Fitch. Fitch formally requested the hand of Maria Antonia in 1827.\n\nOn April 15, 1829, the ceremony was in progress, but was stopped by order of Governor Jose Maria Echeandia. It is believed that the Governor was enraged by Carrillo's choice of a man who refused to naturalize as a citizen, as well as rumored smuggling activity.\n\nThe couple eloped in Valparaiso Chile and upon returning to California 1830, Echeandia announced the marriage as \"Illegal\" and had Fitch imprisoned and placed Carrillo in \"Deposito\", the practice of separating couples to ascertain if they married of their own accord.\n\nCarrillo was held in San Gabriel and Fitch in Monterrey. In December 1830, ecclesiastic authorities found the marriage valid but not legitimate under canon law. To end the scandal, the couple was ordered to pay penance in the order of attending special mass and reciting prayer.\n\nOn September 8, 1850, California entered the US as the 31st state of the union. At the time marriage statutes described marriage as \"a civil contract to which the consent of the parties is required\" with gender specific pronouns applied to \"husband\" and \"wife\". Later court decisions and some statutes dating from both statehood and the 1872 codification of the civil law state; \"Any unmarried male of the age of 18 years or upward and any unmarried female of the age of 15 years old or upward are capable of consenting to and consummating marriage.\" The code makes no mention of what gender may marry which.\n\nIn 1850, \"all marriages of white persons with Negroes or mulattoes [were] declared to be illegal and void\". This stricture held until 1948, at which point the California Supreme Court became the first state court in the country to strike down a law prohibiting interracial marriage, recognizing marriage as a fundamental right:\n\nMarriage is thus something more than a civil contract subject to regulation by the state; it is a fundamental right of free men. There can be no prohibition of marriage except for an important social objective and by reasonable means. No law within the broad areas of state interest may be unreasonably discriminatory or arbitrary. ... The right to marry is as fundamental as the right to send one's child to a particular school or the right to have offspring. Indeed, \"We are dealing here with legislation which involves one of the basic civil rights of man. Marriage and procreation are fundamental to the very existence and survival of the race.\" (Skinner v. Oklahoma, supra, at p. 541.) Legislation infringing such rights must be based upon more than prejudice and must be free from oppressive discrimination to comply with the constitutional requirements of due process and equal protection of the laws.\nWhile the state required records be kept on marriage certificates and contracts as early as 1851, it wasn't until 1858 that any further information was kept, such as births, divorce and death. At that time the office of the state Registrar was created.\n\nIn 1971, Gov. Ronald Reagan signed legislation making civil nuptials gender-neutral under the law as part of the Women's Liberation Movement in California.\n\nIn 1977, Asb. Bruce Nestande (R- Orange County) wrote AB 607 at the behest of the Orange County Clerks Association to exclude same sex couples from civil marriage.\n\nIn 2000, The Knight Initiative (Prop 22; CA DOMA) passes with 61.2% of the vote.\n\nIn 2001, same-sex couples (including Davina Kotulski and Molly McKay) from Marriage Equality USA began asking for marriage licenses in Los Angeles and San Francisco. The issue of same-sex marriage reemerged in 2004, when Mayor of San Francisco Gavin Newsom directed the city-county clerk to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples, citing the California Constitution's guarantee of equal protection under the law to all groups. The marriages were quickly annulled by the California Supreme Court, and the city of San Francisco issued a legal challenge that was consolidated with other challenges to California's marriage laws. Meanwhile, the California legislature twice passed, and twice received vetos from governor Arnold Schwarzenegger on, bills that would have legalized same-sex marriages in the state.\n\nOn May 15, 2008, at a time when only the Massachusetts Supreme Court had ruled favorably on same-sex marriage, the California Supreme Court ruled on the 2004 San Franciscan challenge with other cases in the watershed In re Marriage Cases. Applying strict scrutiny to the state's discrimination between heterosexual and other citizens, marriage was found to be a fundamental right that may not be denied based on sexual orientation, and the relevant laws were struck down.\n\nSocial conservatives and other dissenters capitalized on the case to renew its thrice-unsuccessful push to amend the Constitution of California to restrict marriage to being between opposite-sex couples, and with unprecedented support from the Catholic and LDS churches, succeeded by a slim margin of votes. One year later, the proposition was verified as legal by the California Supreme Court, but not held to be retroactive, so the state of California only recognizes opposite-sex marriages, except for the same-sex marriages granted before the constitutional change in 2008 (including 18,000 marriages granted by California and possibly same-sex marriages granted by other jurisdictions before that date, although a test case has not yet arisen). Prop 8 was eventually overturned by the United States District Court for the Northern District of California but a stay was placed on same sex marriages until an appeal could be heard by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Both, Governor Jerry Brown and Attorney General, Kamala Harris had declined to defend the proposition during the appeals process, so the Ninth Circuit allowed the proponents of the amendment to stand for the state government and appeal the decision. The Ninth Circuit affirmed the ruling of the district court in 2012, and the amendment's proponents appealed to the United States Supreme Court. On June 26, 2013, the Supreme Court ruled 5-4 in \"Hollingsworth v. Perry\" that the appellants had no standing to appeal. They remanded the case to the Ninth Circuit and vacated their ruling, leaving only the district court's ruling stand. Same-sex marriages resumed two days later when the Ninth Circuit lifted the stay on the district court's ruling.\n"}
{"id": "11138311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11138311", "title": "Ian Kerr (academic)", "text": "Ian Kerr (academic)\n\nIan R. Kerr is a Canadian academic who is recognized as an international expert in emerging law and technology issues. He holds a Canada Research Chair in Ethics, Law, and Technology at the University of Ottawa.\n\nKerr teaches contracts as well as an upper-year seminar offered in Puerto Rico each January. Entitled TechnoRico, the seminar deals with technology law issues of global importance. His devotion to teaching has earned six awards and citations, including the Bank of Nova Scotia Award of Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching, the University of Western Ontario’s Faculty of Graduate Studies’ Award of Teaching Excellence, and the University of Ottawa’s AEECLSS Teaching Excellence Award. He is currently teaching a seminar course on the philosophical, ethical & legal implications of robots and society entitled, \"The Robotic Laws\".\n\nKerr studied at the University of Alberta and the University of Western Ontario.\n\nIn addition to co-authoring the widely used business law text, Managing the Law (co-authored by Mitchell McInnes, Anthony VanDuzer, and Chi Carmody), he has published in the areas of ethical and legal aspects of digital copyright, automated electronic commerce, artificial intelligence, cybercrime, nanotechnology, internet regulation, ISP and intermediary liability, online defamation, pre-natal injuries and unwanted pregnancies. His current program of research includes two large projects: (i) On the Identity Trail, focusing on the impact of information and authentication technologies on our identity and our right to be anonymous; and (ii) An Examination of Digital Copyright, focusing on various aspects of the current effort to reform Canadian copyright legislation, including the implications of such reform on fundamental Canadian values including privacy and freedom of expression.\n\nProfessor Kerr is also the originator of Kerr’s Postulate, which states that in any discussion of law and technology, the longer a discussion continues the probability of including a reference to \"The Matrix\" approaches one. Kerr’s Postulate is a play on Godwin's Law stemming from academic research on the man/machine merger and artificial intelligence.\n\nPrior to joining the faculty at the University of Ottawa, he held a joint appointment in the Faculty of Law, the Faculty of Information & Media Studies and the Department of Philosophy at the University of Western Ontario.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "62450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62450", "title": "Independence", "text": "Independence\n\nIndependence is a condition of a nation, country, or state in which its residents and population, or some portion thereof, exercise self-government, and usually sovereignty, over the territory. The opposite of independence is the status of a dependent territory.\n\nWhether the attainment of independence is different from revolution has long been contested, and has often been debated over the question of violence as legitimate means to achieving sovereignty. While some revolutions seek and achieve national independence, others aim only to redistribute power with or without an element of emancipation, such as in democratization \"within\" a state, which as such may remain unaltered. The Haitian Revolution, for example, began as a colony-wide slave uprising that was originally content with the pro-abolitionist French Republic, only to turn into a war into of independence when Napoleon tried to re-install slavery. In contrast, the American Revolutionary War was intended to achieve independence from the beginning. Causes for a country or province wishing to seek independence are many, but most can be summed up as a feeling of inequality compared to the dominant power. The means can extend from peaceful demonstrations, like in the case of India(1947), to a violent war like in the case of Algeria(1954).\n\n\"Autonomy\" refers to a kind of independence which has been granted by an overseeing authority that itself still retains ultimate authority over that territory (see Devolution). A protectorate refers to an autonomous region that depends upon a larger government for its protection as an autonomous region.\n\nSometimes, a state wishing to achieve independence from a dominating power will issue a declaration of independence; the earliest surviving example is Scotland's Declaration of Arbroath in 1320, with the most recent example being Azawad's declaration of independence in 2012. Declaring independence and attaining it however, are quite different. A well-known successful example is the U.S. Declaration of Independence issued in 1776. The dates of established independence (or, less commonly, the commencement of revolution), are typically celebrated as a national holiday known as an independence day.\n\nHistorically, there have been three major periods of declaring independence:\n\n"}
{"id": "46574112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46574112", "title": "Internet Research Agency", "text": "Internet Research Agency\n\nThe Internet Research Agency (IRA; , also known as Glavset and known in Russian Internet slang as the Trolls from Olgino) is a Russian company, based in Saint Petersburg, engaged in online influence operations on behalf of Russian business and political interests.\n\nThe January 2017 report issued by the United States Intelligence Community – \"Assessing Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent US Elections\" – described the Agency as a troll farm writing, \"The likely financier of the so-called Internet Research Agency of professional trolls located in Saint Petersburg is a close Putin ally with ties to Russian intelligence,\" noted that \"they previously were devoted to supporting Russian actions in Ukraine—[and] started to advocate for President-elect Trump as early as December 2015.\"\n\nThe agency has employed fake accounts registered on major social networks, discussion boards, online newspaper sites, and video hosting services to promote the Kremlin's interests in domestic and foreign policy including Ukraine and the Middle East as well as attempting to influence the 2016 United States presidential election. More than 1,000 employees reportedly worked in a single building of the agency in 2015.\n\nThe extent to which a Russian agency has tried to influence public opinion using social media became better known after a June 2014 \"BuzzFeed\" article greatly expanded on government documents published by hackers earlier that year. The Internet Research Agency gained more attention by June 2015, when one of its offices was reported as having data from fake accounts used for biased Internet trolling. Subsequently, there were news reports of individuals receiving monetary compensation for performing these tasks.\n\nOn 16 February 2018, a United States grand jury indicted 13 Russian nationals and 3 Russian entities, including the Internet Research Agency, on charges of violating criminal laws with the intent to interfere \"with U.S. elections and political processes\", according to the Justice Department.\n\nThe company was founded in mid-2013. In 2013, \"Novaya Gazeta\" newspaper reported that Internet Research Agency Ltd's office was in Olgino, a historic district of Saint Petersburg.\n\nThe terms \"Trolls from Olgino\" and \"Olgino's trolls\" (Ru: \"Тролли из Ольгино\") have become general terms denoting trolls who spread pro-Russian propaganda, not only necessarily those based at the office in Olgino.\n\nRussian newspaper \"Vedomosti\" links the approved-by-Russian-authorities strategy of public consciousness manipulation through new media to Vyacheslav Volodin, first deputy of the Vladimir Putin Presidential Administration of Russia.\n\nJournalists have written that Alexey Soskovets, who had participated in the Russian youth political community, was directly connected to the office in Olgino, and that his company, North-Western Service Agency, won 17 or 18 (according to different sources) contracts for organizing celebrations, forums and sport competitions for authorities of Saint Petersburg and that Soskovets' company was the only participant in half of those bids. In mid-2013 the agency won a tender for providing freight services for participants of Seliger camp.\n\nIn 2014, according to Russian media, Internet Research Ltd. () was founded in March 2014, joined IRA's activity. The newspaper \"Novaya Gazeta\" reported that this company is a successor of Internet Research Agency Ltd. Internet Research Ltd. is considered to be linked to Yevgeny Prigozhin, head of the holding company Concord Management and Consulting. The \"Trolls of Olgino\" are considered to be his project. As of October 2014, the company belonged to Mikhail Bystrov, who had been the head of the police station at Moscow district of Saint Petersburg.\n\nRussian media point out that according to documents, published by hackers from Anonymous International, Concord Management is directly involved with trolling administration through the agency. Researchers cite e-mail correspondence, in which Concord Management gives instructions to trolls and receives reports on accomplished work. According to journalists, Concord Management organized banquets in the Kremlin and also cooperated with Voentorg and the Russian Ministry of Defence.\n\nDespite links to Alexei Soskovets, Nadejda Orlova, deputy head of the Committee for Youth Policy in Saint Petersburg, disputed a connection between her institution and the trolling offices.\n\nFinnish journalist Jessikka Aro, who reported extensively on the pro-Russian trolling activities in Finland, was targeted by an organized campaign of hate, disinformation and harassment.\n\nAs reported by \"Novaya Gazeta\", in the end of August 2013, the following message appeared in social networks: \"Internet operators wanted! Job at chic office in Olgino!!! (st. Staraya Derevnia), salary 25960 per month (USD$780 as of 2013). Task: posting comments at profile sites in the Internet, writing thematic posts, blogs, social networks. Reports via screenshots. Individual schedule [...] Payment every week, 1180 per shift (from 8.00 to 16.00, from 10.30 to 18.30, from 14.00 to 22.00). PAYMENTS EVERY WEEK AND FREE MEALS!!! Official job placement or according to contract (at will). Tuition possible.\"\n\nAs reported by media and former employees, the office in Olgino, Primorskiy district, St. Peterburg had existed and had been functioning since September 2013. It was situated in a white cottage, 15 minutes by an underground railway from Staraya Derevnia station, opposite Olgino railway station. Workplaces for troll-employees were placed in basement rooms.\n\nAccording to Russian online newspaper , several months before October 2014 the office moved from Olgino to a four-story building at 55 Savushkina Street, Primorskiy district, St. Peterburg. As reported by journalists, the building is officially an uncompleted construction and stayed as such as of March 2015.\n\nA \"New York Times\" investigative reporter was told that the Internet Research Agency had shortened its name to \"Internet Research,\" and as of June 2015 had been asked to leave the 55 Savushkina Street location \"a couple of months ago\" because \"it was giving the entire building a bad reputation.\" A possibly related organization, \"FAN\" or Federal News Agency, was located in the building. \"The New York Times\" article describes various experiences reported by former employees of the Internet Research Agency at the Savushkina Street location. It also describes several disruptive hoaxes in the US and Europe, such as the Columbian Chemicals Plant explosion hoax, that may be attributable to the Internet Research Agency or similar Russian-based organizations.\n\n\"Novaya Gazeta\" reported that, according to Alexey Soskovets, head of the office in Olgino, North-Western Service Agency was hiring employees for similar projects in Moscow and other cities in 2013.\n\nMore than 1,000 paid bloggers and commenters reportedly worked only in a single building at Savushkina Street in 2015. Many other employees work remotely. According to \"BuzzFeed\", more than 600 people were generally employed in the trolls' office earlier, in June 2014. Each commentator has a daily quota of 100 comments.\n\nTrolls take shifts writing mainly in blogs on LiveJournal and Vkontakte, about subjects along the propaganda lines assigned. Included among the employees are artists who draw political cartoons. They work for 12 hours every other two days. A blogger's quota is ten posts per shift, each post at least 750 characters. A commenter's norm is 126 comments and two posts per account. Each blogger is in charge of three accounts.\n\nEmployees at the Olgino office earned 25,000 Russian rubles per month; those at the Savushkina Street office earned approximately 40,000 Russian rubles. In May 2014, Fontanka.ru described schemes for plundering the federal budget, intended to go toward the trolling organization. In 2017 another whistleblower said that with bonuses and long working hours the salary can reach 80,000 rubles.\n\nAn employee interviewed by \"The Washington Post\" described the work: \n\nAccording to the testimonies of the investigative journalists and former employees of the offices, the main topics for posts included:\n\nJournalists have written that themes of trolling were consistent with those of other Russian propaganda outlets in topics and timing. Technical points used by trolls were taken mainly from Russia Today content.\n\nA 2015 BBC investigation identified the Olgino factory as the most likely producer of a September 2015 \"Saiga 410K review\" video where an actor posing as U.S. soldier shoots at a book that turns out to be a Quran, which sparked outrage. The BBC found among other irregularities that the soldier's uniform is not used by the U.S. military and is easily purchased in Russia, and that the actor filmed was most likely a barman from Saint Petersburg related to a troll factory employee.\n\nThe citizen-journalism site \"Bellingcat\" identified the team from Olgino as the real authors of a video attributed to the Azov Battalion in which masked soldiers threaten the Netherlands for organizing the referendum on the Ukraine–European Union Association Agreement.\n\nIn the beginning of April 2014 there began an organized online campaign to shift public opinion in the Western world in a way that would be useful for Russian authorities regarding the Russian military intervention in Ukraine in 2014. Hacked and leaked documents from that time contain instructions for commenters posting at the websites of Fox News, \"The Huffington Post\", \"TheBlaze\", \"Politico\", and WorldNetDaily. The requirement for the working hours for the trolls is also mentioned: 50 comments under news articles per day. Each blogger has to manage six accounts on Facebook, post at least three posts every day, and participate twice in the group discussions. Other employees have to manage 10 accounts on Twitter, publishing 50 tweets every day. Journalists concluded that Igor Osadchiy was a probable leader of the project, and the campaign itself was run by Internet Research Agency Ltd. Osadchiy denied his connection to the agency.\n\nThe company is also one of the main sponsors of an anti-Western exhibition Material Evidence.\n\nIn the beginning of 2016, Ukraine's state-owned news agency Ukrinform claimed to expose a system of bots in social networks, which called for violence against the Ukrainian government and for starting \"The Third Maidan\". They reported that the organizer of this system is the former anti-Ukrainian combatant Sergiy Zhuk from Donbass. He allegedly performed his internet activity from Vnukovo District in Moscow.\n\nIn March 2014, the Polish edition of \"Newsweek\" expressed suspicion that Russia was employing people to \"bombard\" its website with pro-Russian comments on Ukraine-related articles. Poland's governmental computer emergency response team later confirmed that pro-Russia commentary had flooded Polish internet portals at the start of the Ukrainian crisis. German-language media websites were also flooded with pro-Russia comments in the spring of 2014.\n\nIn late May 2014, the hacker group Anonymous International began publishing documents received from hacked emails of Internet Researches Agency managers.\n\nIn May–June 2014, internet trolls invaded news media sites and massively posted pro-Russian comments in broken English.\n\nIn March 2015 a service enabling censorship of sources of anti-Ukrainian propaganda in social networks inside Ukraine was launched.\n\nThe United States Justice Department announced the indictment on 16 February 2018, of the Internet Research Agency while also naming more than a dozen individual suspects who allegedly worked there as part of the special counsel's investigation into criminal interference with the 2016 election.\n\nRussian bloggers Anton Nosik, Rustem Adagamov, and Dmitriy Aleshkovskiy have said that paid Internet-trolls don't change public opinion. Their usage is just a way to steal budget money.\n\nLeonid Volkov, a politician working for Alexei Navalny's Anti-Corruption Foundation, suggests that the point of sponsoring paid Internet trolling is to make the Internet so distasteful that ordinary people are not willing to participate.\n\nThe Columbian Chemicals Plant explosion hoax in 11 September 2014, was the work of IRA.\n\nBased on the documents published by Anonymous International, Concord Management and Consulting was linked to the funding of several media outlets in Ukraine and Russia, including \"Kharkiv News Agency\", \"News of Neva\", \"Newspaper About Newspapers\", \"Business Dialog\", and \"Journalist Truth\".\n\nThe Columbian Chemicals Plant explosion hoax of 11 September 2014, which claim an explosion at a chemical plant in Centerville, St. Mary Parish, Louisiana, has been attributed in June 2015, by \"the New York Times Magazine\", as \"a highly coordinated disinformation campaign\" and that the \"virtual assault\" was the work of the Internet Research Agency.\n\nThree months later, the same accounts posted false messages on Twitter about an Ebola outbreak in Atlanta under the keyword #EbolaInAtlanta, quickly relayed and picked up by users living in the city. A video was then posted on YouTube, showing a medical team treating an alleged Ebola victim at Atlanta Airport. On the same day, a different group launched a rumor on Twitter under the keyword #shockingmurderinatlanta, reporting the death of a disarmed black woman shot by police. Again, a blurry and poorly filmed video is broadcast to support the rumor.\n\nBetween July 2014 and September 2017, the IRA used bots and trolls on Twitter to sow discord about the safety of vaccines. The campaign used sophisticated Twitter bots to amplify highly polarizing pro-vaccine and anti-vaccine messages containing the hashtag #VaccinateUS.\n\nIn September 2017 Facebook said that ads had been \"geographically targeted\". Facebook revealed that during the 2016 United States presidential election, IRA had purchased advertisements on the website for US$100,000, 25% of which were geographically targeted to the U.S. Facebook's chief security officer said that the ads \"appeared to focus on amplifying divisive social and political messages across the ideological spectrum\".\n\nAccording to an 17 October 2017 \"BuzzFeed News\" report, IRA duped American activists into taking real action via protests and self-defense training in what would seem to be a further attempt to exploit racial grievances.\n\nOn 16 February 2018, IRA, along with 13 Russian individuals and two other Russian organizations, was indicted following an investigation by Special Counsel Robert Mueller with charges stemming from \"impairing, obstructing, and defeating the lawful functions of government.\"\n\nOn 23 March 2018, \"The Daily Beast\" revealed new details about IRA gathered from leaked internal documents, which showed that IRA used Reddit and Tumblr as part of its influence campaign. On the same day, Tumblr announced that they had banned 84 accounts linked to IRA, saying that they had spread misinformation through conventional postings rather than advertisements.\n\nIn October 2018 the US Justice Department filed charges against Russian accountant Elena Khusyaynova for working with the IRA to influence not only the 2016 elections but also the upcoming 2018 midterm elections.\n\nOn 4 April 2016, a rally in Buffalo, New York protested the death of India Cummings, a black woman who had recently died in police custody. IRA's \"Blacktivist\" Facebook account actively promoted the event and reached out directly to local activists on Facebook Messenger asking them to circulate petitions and print posters. \"Blacktivist\" supplied the petitions and poster artwork.\n\nA rally on 16 April 2016, protesting the death of Freddie Gray attracted large crowds in Baltimore. IRA's \"Blacktivist\" Facebook group promoted and organized the event, including reaching out to local activists.\n\nOn 23 April 2016, a small group of white-power demonstrators held a rally they called \"Rock Stone Mountain\" at Stone Mountain Park near Stone Mountain, Georgia. They were confronted by a large group of protesters, and some violent clashes ensued. The protest was heavily promoted by IRA accounts on Tumblr, Twitter, and Facebook, and the IRA website blackmatters.com. The IRA used its Blacktivist Facebook account to reach out, to no avail, to activist and academic Barbara Williams Emerson, the daughter of Hosea Williams, to help promote the protests. Afterward, RT blamed anti-racist protesters for violence and promoted two videos shot at the event.\n\nOn 2 May 2016, a second rally was held in Buffalo, New York, protesting the death of India Cummings. Like the 4 April rally, the event was heavily promoted by IRA's \"Blacktivist\" Facebook account, including attempted outreach to local activists.\n\nOn 21 May 2016, two competing rallies were held in Houston to alternately protest against and defend the recently opened Library of Islamic Knowledge at the Islamic Da'wah Center. The \"Stop Islamization of Texas\" rally was organized by the Facebook group \"Heart of Texas\". The posting for the event encouraged participants to bring guns. A spokesman for the group conversed with the Houston Press via email but declined to give a name. The other rally, \"Save Islamic Knowledge\", was organized by another Facebook group called \"United Muslims of America\" for the same time and location. Both Facebook groups were later revealed to be IRA accounts.\n\nOn 25 May 2016, the Westboro Baptist Church held its annual protest of Lawrence High School graduation ceremonies in Lawrence, Kansas. The \"LGBT United\" Facebook group organized a counter protest to confront the Westboro Baptist Church protest, including by placing an ad on Facebook and contacting local people. About a dozen counter protesters showed up. Lawrence High School students did not participate in the counter protest because they were skeptical of the counter protest organizers. \"LGBT United\" was an IRA account that appears to have been created specifically for this event.\n\n\"LGBT United\" organized a candlelight vigil on 25 June 2016, for the Pulse nightclub shooting victims in Orlando, Florida.\n\nIRA's \"Don't Shoot\" Facebook group and affiliated \"Don't Shoot Us\" website tried to organize a protest outside St. Paul, Minnesota police headquarters on 10 July 2016, in response to the 6 July fatal police shooting of Philando Castile. Some local activists became suspicious of the motives behind the event because St. Paul police were not involved in the shooting. Castille had been shot by a St. Anthony police officer in nearby Falcon Heights. Local activists contacted \"Don't Shoot.\" After being pressed on who they were and who supported them, \"Don't Shoot\" agreed to move the protest to St. Anthony police headquarters. The concerned local activists investigated further and urged protesters not to participate after deciding \"Don't Shoot\" was a \"total troll job.\" \"Don't Shoot\" organizers eventually relinquished control of the event to local organizers, who subsequently declined to accept any money offered by \"Don't Shoot\" to cover expenses.\n\nA Black Lives Matter protest rally was held in Dallas on 10 July 2016. A \"Blue Lives Matter\" counter protest was held across the street. The \"Blue Lives Matter\" protest was organized by the \"Heart of Texas\" Facebook group controlled by IRA.\n\nThe Blacktivist Facebook group organized a rally in Chicago to honor Sandra Bland on 16 July 2016, the first anniversary of her death. The rally was held in front of the Chicago Police Department's Homan Square building. They passed around petitions calling for a Civilian Police Accountability Council ordinance.\n\n17 \"Florida Goes Trump\" rallies were held across Florida on 25 August 2016. The rallies were organized by IRA using their \"Being Patriotic\" Facebook group and \"march_for_trump\" Twitter account.\n\nThe \"SecuredBorders\" Facebook group organized the \"Citizens before refugees\" protest rally on 27 August 2016, at the City Council Chambers in Twin Falls, Idaho. Only a small number of people showed up for the three hour event, most likely because it was Saturday and the Chambers were closed. \"SecureBorders\" was an IRA account.\n\nThe \"Safe Space for Muslim Neighborhood\" rally was held outside the White House on 3 September 2016. At least 57 people attended the event organized by the IRA's \"United Muslims of America\" Facebook group.\n\n\"BlackMattersUS\", an IRA website, recruited activists to participate in protests on the days immediately following the 20 September 2016, police shooting of Keith Lamont Scott in Charlotte, North Carolina. The IRA paid for expenses such as microphones and speakers.\n\nThe \"Miners for Trump\" rallies held in Pennsylvania on 2 October 2016, were organized by IRA's \"Being Patriotic\" Facebook group.\n\nA large rally was held in Charlotte, North Carolina on 22 October 2016, protesting the police shooting of Keith Lamont Scott. BlackMattersUS recruited unwitting local activists to organize the rally. BlackMattersUS provided one activist with a bank card to pay for rally expenses.\n\nAnti-Hillary Clinton \"Texit\" rallies were held across Texas on 5 November 2016. The \"Heart of Texas\" Facebook group organized the rallies around the theme of Texas seceding from the United States if Hillary Clinton is elected. The group contacted the Texas Nationalist Movement, a secessionist organization, to help with organizing efforts, but they declined to help. Small rallies were held in Dallas, Fort Worth, Austin, and other cities. No one attended the Lubbock rally.\n\nA Trump protest called \"Trump is NOT my President\" attracted 5,000 to 10,000 protestors in Manhattan on 12 November 2016. Protesters marched from Union Square to Trump Tower. The protest was organized by BlackMattersUS.\n\nThe IRA's \"United Muslims of America\" Facebook group organized the \"Make peace, not war!\" protest on 3 June 2017, outside Trump Tower in New York City. It is unclear whether anyone attended this protest or instead attended the \"March for Truth\" affiliated protest held on the same day.\n\nIn May 2015, a trolling company employee Lyudmila Savchuk in Saint Petersburg sued her employer for labor violations, seeking to disclose its activities. Ivan Pavlov from human rights defending initiative Team 29 represented Savchuk, and the defendant \"troll-factory\" agreed to pay Savchuk her withheld salaries and to restore her job. \n\nSavchuk later described extreme psychological pressure at the work place, with jokes circulating among employees that \"one can remain sane in the factory for two months maximum\", as result of constant switching between different personalities that the workers are expected to design and maintain during work time. \n\nOn 16 February 2018, 13 individuals were indicted by the Washington, D.C. grand jury for alleged illegal interference in the 2016 presidential elections, during which they strongly supported the candidacy of Donald Trump, according to special counsel Robert Mueller's office. IRA, Concord Management and Concord Catering were also indicted. It was alleged that IRA was controlled by Yevgeny Prigozhin, a wealthy associate of Russian President Vladimir Putin.\n\nThe indicted individuals are Dzheykhun Nasimi Ogly Aslanov, Anna Vladislavovna Bogacheva, Maria Anatolyevna Bovda, Robert Sergeyevich Bovda, Mikhail Leonidovich Burchik, Mikhail Ivanovich Bystrov, Irina Viktorovna Kaverzina, Aleksandra Yuryevna Krylova, Vadim Vladimirovich Podkopaev, Sergey Pavlovich Polozov, Yevgeny Viktorovich Prigozhin, Gleb Igorevitch Vasilchenko, and Vladimir Venkov. None of the defendants is in custody.\n\nOn 15 March, President Trump imposed financial sanctions under the \"Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act\" on the 13 Russian and organizations indicted by Mueller, preventing them from entering the United States to answer the charges should they wish to.\n\nIn October 2018 Russian accountant Elena Khusyaynova was charged with interferеnce in the 2016 and 2018 US elections. She is alleged to have been working with the IRA. She was said to have managed a $16 million budget.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3458358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3458358", "title": "Leonard Law", "text": "Leonard Law\n\nThe Leonard Law is a California law passed in 1992 and amended in 2006 that applies the First Amendment of the United States Constitution to private and public colleges, high schools, and universities. The law also applies Article I, Section 2 of the California Constitution to colleges and universities. California is the only state to grant First Amendment protections to students at private postsecondary institutions. Attempts at a federal Leonard Law and for Leonard Laws in other states have not succeeded.\n\nRepublican State Senator Bill Leonard wrote the law to require private high schools, colleges and universities to protect their students' rights to freedom of speech \"and other communication\" that the government is required to protect for all of its citizens. Under the terms of the law, students may file civil lawsuits to seek injunctive and declaratory relief against their institutions; students may also recover any attorney's fees related to the case.\n\nIn 2006, California amended the law to include public institutions of higher education, which in California consist of the California Community Colleges System, the California State University system, and the University of California system. State Assembly members Leland Yee and Joe Nation authored the amendment in preemptive response to the \"Hosty v. Carter\" decision of the federal Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. The amendment came into force in 2007.\n\nOn May 2, 1994, Stanford Law School student Robert J. Corry and eight other Stanford University students filed the first lawsuit under the Leonard Law, claiming that Stanford's speech code violated the law. On February 27, 1995, Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge Peter G. Stone issued the ruling in \"Corry v. Stanford\" that struck down the speech code as a violation of the Leonard Law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3005151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3005151", "title": "Lex loci", "text": "Lex loci\n\nIn conflict of laws, the term lex loci (Latin for \"the law of the place\") is a shorthand version of the choice of law rules that determine the \"lex causae\" (the laws chosen to decide a case).\n\nThe relevant rules are:\n"}
{"id": "54178139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54178139", "title": "Ministry of Justice (imperial China)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (imperial China)\n\nThe Ministry or was one of the Six Ministries under the Department of State Affairs in imperial China.\n\nUnder the Ming, the Ministry of Justice had charge of most judicial and penal processes, but had no authority over the Censorate or the Grand Court of Revision.\n\n"}
{"id": "625059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=625059", "title": "Modular building", "text": "Modular building\n\nModular buildings and modular homes are prefabricated buildings or houses that consist of repeated sections called modules. \"Modular\" is a construction method that involves constructing sections away from the building site, then delivering them to the intended site. Installation of the prefabricated sections is completed on site. Prefabricated sections are sometimes placed using a crane. The modules can be placed side-by-side, end-to-end, or stacked, allowing a variety of configurations and styles.\n\nModular buildings, also called prefabricated homes or precision built homes, are built to equal or higher standards as on-site stick-built homes. The building method is referred to as permanent modular construction. \n\nMaterial for stick built and modular homes are the same. Modular homes are not doublewides or mobile homes. First, modular homes do not have axles or a metal frame, meaning that they are typically transported on flat-bed trucks. Modular buildings must conform to all relevant local building codes, while doublewides and mobile homes have metal under framing. Doublewides and mobile homes made in the United States are required to conform to federal codes governed by U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.\n\nModular buildings may be used for long-term, temporary or permanent facilities, such as construction camps, schools and classrooms, civilian and military housing, and industrial facilities. Modular buildings are used in remote and rural areas where conventional construction may not be reasonable or possible, for example, the Halley VI accommodation pods used for a BAS Antarctic expedition. Other uses have included churches, health care facilities, sales and retail offices, fast food restaurants and cruise ship construction. They can also be used in areas that have weather concerns, such as hurricanes.\n\nConstruction is offsite, using lean manufacturing techniques to prefabricate single or multi-story buildings in deliverable module sections. Permanent Modular Construction (PMC) buildings are manufactured in a controlled setting and can be constructed of wood, steel, or concrete. Modular components are typically constructed indoors on assembly lines. Modules' construction may take as little as ten days but more often one to three months. PMC modules can be integrated into site built projects or stand alone and can be delivered with MEP, fixtures and interior finishes.\n\nThe buildings are 60% to 90% completed offsite in a factory-controlled environment, and transported and assembled at the final building site. This can comprise the entire building or be components or subassemblies of larger structures. In many cases, modular contractors work with traditional general contractors to exploit the resources and advantages of each type of construction. Completed modules are transported to the building site and assembled by a crane. Placement of the modules may take from several hours to several days.\n\nPermanent modular buildings are built to meet or exceed the same building codes and standards as site-built structures and the same architect-specified materials used in conventionally constructed buildings are used in modular construction projects. PMC can have as many stories as building codes allow. Unlike relocatable buildings, PMC structures are intended to remain in one location for the duration of their useful life.\n\nThe entire process of modular construction places significance on the design stage. This is where practices such as Design for Manufacture and Assembly (DfMA) are used to ensure that assembly tolerances are controlled throughout manufacture and assembly on site. It is vital that there is enough allowance in the design to allow the assembly to take up any \"slack\" or misalignment of components. The use of advanced CAD systems, 3D printing and manufacturing control systems are important for modular construction to be successful. This is quite unlike on-site construction where the tradesman can often make the part to suit any particular installation.\n\nModular buildings are argued to have advantages over conventional buildings, for a variety of reasons. \n\nModular buildings can also contribute to LEED requirements in any category site-built construction can, and can even provide an advantage in the areas of Sustainable Sites, Energy and Atmosphere, Materials and Resources, and Indoor Environmental Quality.\nModular construction can also provide an advantage in similar categories in the International Green Construction Code.\n\n\nSome home buyers and some lending institutions resist consideration of modular homes as equivalent in value to site-built homes. While the homes themselves may be of equivalent quality, entrenched zoning regulations and psychological marketplace factors may create hurdles for buyers or builders of modular homes and should be considered as part of the decision-making process when exploring this type of home as a living and/or investment option. In the UK and Australia, modular homes have become accepted in some regional areas; however, they are not commonly built in major cities. Modular homes are becoming increasingly common in Japanese urban areas, due to improvements in design and quality, speed and compactness of onsite assembly, as well as due to lowering costs and ease of repair after earthquakes. Recent innovations allow modular buildings to be indistinguishable from site-built structures. Surveys have shown that individuals can rarely tell the difference between a modular home and a site-built home.\n\nDifferences include the building codes that govern the construction, types of material used and how they are appraised by banks for lending purposes. Modular homes are built to either local or state building codes as opposed to manufactured homes, which are also built in a factory but are governed by a federal building code. The codes that govern the construction of modular homes are exactly the same codes that govern the construction of site-constructed homes. In the United States, all modular homes are constructed according to the International Building Code (IBC), IRC, BOCA or the code that has been adopted by the local jurisdiction. In some states, such as California, mobile homes must still be registered yearly, like vehicles or standard trailers, with the Department of Motor Vehicles or other state agency. This is true even if the owners remove the axles and place it on a permanent foundation.\n\nA mobile home should have a small metal tag on the outside of each section. If you cannot locate a tag, you should be able to find details about the home in the electrical panel box. This tag should also reveal a manufacturing date. Modular homes do not have metal tags on the outside but will have a dataplate installed inside the home, usually under the kitchen sink or in a closet. The dataplate will provide information such as the manufacturer, third party inspection agency, appliance information, and manufacture date.\n\nThe materials used in modular homes are typically the same as site constructed homes. Wood-frame floors, walls and roof are often utilized. Some modular homes include brick or stone exteriors, granite counters and steeply pitched roofs. Modulars can be designed to sit on a perimeter foundation or basement. In contrast, mobile homes are constructed with a steel chassis that is integral to the integrity of the floor system. Modular buildings can be custom built to a client's specifications. Current designs include multi-story units, multi-family units and entire apartment complexes. The negative stereotype commonly associated with mobile homes has prompted some manufacturers to start using the term \"off-site construction.\"\n\nMobile homes often require special lenders.\n\nModular homes on the other hand are financed as site built homes with a construction loan\n\nTypically, modular dwellings are built to local, state or council code, resulting in dwellings from a given manufacturing facility having differing construction standards depending on the final destination of the modules. The most important zones that manufacturers have to take into consideration are local wind, heat, and snow load zones. For example, homes built for final assembly in a hurricane-prone, earthquake or flooding area may include additional bracing to meet local building codes. Steel and/or wood framing are common options for building a modular home.\n\nSome US courts have ruled that zoning restrictions applicable to mobile homes do not apply to modular homes since modular homes are designed to have a permanent foundation. Additionally, in the US, valuation differences between modular homes and site-built homes are often negligible in real estate appraisal practice; modular homes can, in some market areas, (depending on local appraisal practices per Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice) be evaluated the same way as site-built dwellings of similar quality. In Australia, manufactured home parks are governed by additional legislation that does not apply to permanent modular homes. Possible developments in equivalence between modular and site-built housing types for the purposes of real estate appraisals, financing and zoning may increase the sales of modular homes over time.\n\nModular homes are designed to be stronger than traditional homes by, for example, replacing nails with screws, adding glue to joints, and using 8-10% more lumber than conventional housing. This is to help the modules maintain their structural integrity as they are transported on trucks to the construction site; however, it is difficult to predict the final building strength since the modules need to endure transportation stresses that traditional homes never experience.\n\nThe insulated concrete forms are modular units that are dry-stacked (without mortar) and filled with concrete. Insulating concrete forms has an acceptable ductility if used in high seismic risk zones.\n\nWhen FEMA studied the destruction wrought by Hurricane Andrew in Dade County Florida, they concluded that modular and masonry homes fared best compared to other construction.\n\nThe CE mark is a construction norm that guarantees the user of mechanical resistance and strength of the structure. It is a label given by European community empowered authorities for end-to-end process mastering and traceability.\n\nAll manufacturing operations are being monitored and recorded:\n\nThis ID and all the details are recorded in a database, At any time, the producer has to be able to answer and provide all the information from each step of the production of a single unit, The EC certification guaranties standards in terms of durability, resistance against wind and earthquakes.\n\nModular buildings can be assembled on top of multiple foundation surfaces, such as a crawl space, stilts (for areas that are prone to flooding), full basements or standard slab at grade. They can also be built to multi-story heights. Motels and other multi-family structures have been built using modular construction techniques. The height to which a modular structure can be built depends on jurisdiction, but a number of countries, especially in Asia, allow them to be built to 24 floors or more.\n\nExterior wall surfaces can be finalized in the plant production process or in the case of brick/stone veneers, field applications may be the builders' choice. Roof systems also can be applied in the field after the basic installation is completed.\n\nWeather, population density, geographical distances, and local housing architecture play a role in the use of modular construction for home building. Because modular construction is so adaptable, it has begun to permeate every region of the U.S.\n\nThe northeast is populated with factories that can combine modular housing design with other construction methods such as panelization and SIPs. Modules are typically limited to 16' width and up to 70' lengths because of the narrow road structure and densely populated areas of the region. Other limitations are placed on transportation to locations such as Connecticut, Cape Cod, and Long Island.\n\nThe Mid-Atlantic region is similar to the northeast, in terms of building design and transport restriction to modules to a width of not more than 16'.\n\nManufacturers in the Southeast often limit their ability to customize homes and focus on very traditional single story floor plans. Much of the south is in coastal and high wind areas; modular construction may prove appealing in this area as it is already inherently stronger as it must be built for transport and craned installation, therefore offering wind resistance as good or higher than site-built construction.\n\nThe central plains states typically are made up of farming and rural communities. Ranch homes are the mainstay of the region. Prone to strong storms and tornado conditions, modular construction offers the ability to better withstand these storm patterns than its site built counterpart. The inter-module attachments that must be made when assembling a modular home on a foundation offer an inherently stronger home than site built construction can offer. Interior finishes on both the walls and ceilings are typically textured. Corners on interior walls are typically rounded and finish trim around windows is optional. Because of the wider road and lower population density, modules can be as wide as 20' and as long as 90'. The ability to provide larger modules reduces the amount of modules needed to complete a home.\n\nHome design in this area ranges from Chalet style homes to log cabin style homes. Manufacturers in the region therefore provide a number of styles of homes. Capability varies from factory to factory as well as the ability to do complete customization of floor plans. Transportation is limited mostly to 16' wide modules to travel the roads of the area.\n\nThe high cost of living in coastal areas, and especially California, may provide modular construction an edge due to its lower cost. Extreme building regulation and environmental requirements can delay the start of residential construction. Several factories specialize in environmentally responsible construction by following green construction standards and offering zero energy homes.\n\nLiving in coastal areas also mean that the modular home structure should be strong enough to withstand winds with high velocity. Modular homes, built correctly, have such kind of resistance to stand high wind velocity without any damage issues.\n\nModular building can also be open source and green.\n\n3D printing can be used to build the house.\n\nThe main standard is OpenStructures and its derivative Autarkytecture.\n\nPermanent modular buildings can be utilized in any application where stick-built construction is used. The primary markets served are K-12 education, higher education student housing, office and administrative space, retail and hospitality, healthcare, and publicly funded facilities.\n\nModular construction is the subject of continued research and development worldwide as the technology is applied to taller and taller buildings. Research and development is carried out by modular building companies and also research institutes such as the Modular Building Institute and the Steel Construction Institute. An example of a recent research project is MODCONS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "233475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233475", "title": "Multi-party system", "text": "Multi-party system\n\nA multi-party system is a system in which multiple political parties across the political spectrum run for national election, and all have the capacity to gain control of government offices, separately or in coalition. Apart from one-party-dominant and two-party systems, multi-party systems tend to be more common in parliamentary systems than presidential systems and far more common in countries that use proportional representation compared to countries that use first-past-the-post elections. \n\nFirst-past-the-post requires concentrated areas of support for large representation in the legislature whereas proportional representation better reflects the range of a population's views. Proportional systems may have multi-member districts with more than one representative elected from a given district to the same legislative body, and thus a greater number of viable parties. Duverger's law states that the number of viable political parties is one plus the number of seats in a district. \n\nArgentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Croatia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Lebanon, Maldives, Mexico, Moldova, Nepal, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Tunisia and Ukraine are examples of nations that have used a multi-party system effectively in their democracies. In these countries, usually no single party has a parliamentary majority by itself. Instead, multiple political parties are compelled to form compromised coalitions for the purpose of developing power blocks and attaining legitimate mandate.\n\nA system where only two parties have the possibility of winning an election is called two-party system. A system where only three parties have a \"realistic possibility\" of winning an election or forming a coalition is sometimes called a \"Third-party system\". But, in some cases the system is called a \"Stalled Third-Party System,\" when there are three parties and all three parties win a large number of votes, but only two have a chance of winning an election. Usually this is because the electoral system penalises the third party, e.g. as in Canadian or UK politics. In the 2010 elections, the Liberal Democrats gained 23% of the total vote but won less than 10% of the seats due to the first-past-the-post electoral system. Despite this, they still had enough seats (and enough public support) to form coalitions with one of the two major parties, or to make deals in order to gain their support. An example is the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition formed after the 2010 general election. Another is the Lib-Lab pact during Prime Minister James Callaghan's Minority Labour Government; when Labour lost its three-seat majority in 1977, the pact fell short of a full coalition. In Canada, there are three major federal political parties; the Conservative Party of Canada, the Liberal Party of Canada, and the New Democratic Party of Canada. However, the Liberals and Conservatives have been the only two parties to form government in Canada with the New Democrats as the third party, except in the 2011 Canadian election when the New Democrats were the Official Opposition.\n\nUnlike a one-party system (or a two-party system), a multi-party system encourages the general constituency to form multiple distinct, officially recognized groups, generally called political parties. Each party competes for votes from the enfranchised constituents (those allowed to vote). A multi-party system prevents the leadership of a single party from controlling a single legislative chamber without challenge.\n\nIf the government includes an elected Congress or Parliament, the parties may share power according to proportional representation or the first-past-the-post system. In proportional representation, each party wins a number of seats proportional to the number of votes it receives. In first-past-the-post, the electorate is divided into a number of districts, each of which selects one person to fill one seat by a plurality of the vote. First-past-the-post is not conducive to a proliferation of parties, and naturally gravitates toward a two-party system, in which only two parties have a real chance of electing their candidates to office. This gravitation is known as Duverger's law. Proportional representation, on the other hand, does not have this tendency, and allows multiple major parties to arise. But, recent coalition governments, such as that in the U.K., represent two-party systems rather than multi-party systems. This is regardless of the number of parties in government.\n\nA two-party system requires voters to align themselves in large blocs, sometimes so large that they cannot agree on any overarching principles. Some theories argue that this allows centrists to gain control. On the other hand, if there are multiple major parties, each with less than a majority of the vote, the parties are strongly motivated to work together to form working governments. This also promotes centrism, as well as promoting coalition-building skills while discouraging polarization.\n\n"}
{"id": "36334760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36334760", "title": "New Haven Legal Assistance Association", "text": "New Haven Legal Assistance Association\n\nNew Haven Legal Assistance Association, Inc. (LAA) is a nonprofit organization incorporated with funding from the Ford Foundation on April 7, 1964 to \"secure justice for and to protect the rights of those residents of New Haven County unable to engage legal counsel.\" LAA provides free legal services in the fields of child and family law, benefits, employment, health, elder, disabilities, consumer, housing, and civil rights to eligible individuals and families in the greater New Haven area. It maintains partnerships with Yale and Quinnipiac Law Schools.\n\nIn 1964, the year of the LAA’s founding, the American Bar Foundation estimated that some 1,400,000 indigents were tried each year without lawyers in the United States. Seeking a remedy, the government and private charitable organizations began to finance “neighborhood law offices” to accommodate the vast number of individuals requiring legal assistance.\n\nThe LAA, financed by the Ford Foundation in 1964, was one of the first legal services programs to be established. On May 1, 1964, it opened its first office. At the ceremony, Supreme Court Justice Arthur Goldberg lauded the opening as “the start of a new process – a process which will expand the rule of law to all segments of the population.” In 1965, when the federal government began funding legal services through the Office of Economic Opportunity, LAA was used as a model for more than 300 programs that were opened around the country.\n\nThroughout the 1960s, the LAA continued to expand in an effort to meet the overwhelming demand for its services. LAA added attorneys (reaching a high of 30 lawyers) and opened additional neighborhood offices (for a total of seven). However, in the early 1970s, large government funding cuts forced the LAA to reduce its staff and number of neighborhood offices. Cuts continued in the early 1980s under the Reagan administration.\n\nThe mission of New Haven Legal Assistance Association, Inc. is to provide high-quality legal services to individuals and groups unable to obtain legal services because of limited income, age, disability, discrimination and other barriers.\n\nIn 1983, the LAA moved into its current offices at Court and State Streets in New Haven.\n\n1967\n1969\n1971\n1972\n1973\n1974\n1975\n1976\n1978\n1980\n1981\n1982\n1983\n1984\n1986\n1987\n1988\n1989\n1990\n1992\n1995\n1996\n1997\n1998\n1999\n2001\n2003\n2004\n2006\n2007\n2008\n2009\n2011\n\n"}
{"id": "34641981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34641981", "title": "Oliver H. Langeland", "text": "Oliver H. Langeland\n\nOliver Hansen Langeland (30 January 1887 – 9 February 1958) was a Norwegian military officer and civil servant. He had careers in both civil service and the military, and is best known as leader of Milorg District 13 from 1942 to 1944.\n\nHe was born in Eid in Nordfjord as a son of farmers Hans Langeland (1844–1928) and Kari Hildenes (1847–1939). In 1915 he married Susanne Andrea Augusta Harwig, daughter of a Methodist priest. He graduated as a petty officer in 1908, and advanced to the rank of first lieutenant in 1912, reaching the rank of captain in 1915. In 1929 he left the army. He also took the examen artium in 1910, and graduated from the Royal Frederick University in Kristiania with the cand.oecon. degree in economics in 1913.\n\nFrom 1915 to 1918 he lived in Saltdal where he ran a private middle school. He then moved back to Kristiania and worked as an inspector and statistician in the city's tax authority. From 1929 he was a secretary in the municipal resident register and statistical officer. He returned to the tax authority in 1941 as office manager, advancing to head of department in 1945. He wrote several articles and pamphlets about statistics, housing, tax questions and the city's demography. He released the book \"Det er liv eller død det gjelder\" in 1937. He also contributed with two articles on the defence issue in the national socialist periodical \"Ragnarok\", both in 1938.\n\nDuring the occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany he was the leader of Milorg District 13 (D13), from November 1942 to July/August 1944. D13 covered Oslo, Aker, Bærum and Asker. He reached the rank of major.\n\nIn his book \"Dømmer ikke\" (\"Do Not Judge\") from 1948, he criticized the legal purge after the war. He sharply criticized the sitting cabinet in the pre-war and war years (1935 to 1945), Nygaardsvold's Cabinet, for having guilt in the German occupation that befell Norway. Langeland called for impeachment of the cabinet members. He also lambasted the conviction of the several people who had held passive membership of the now-banned political party Nasjonal Samling.\n\nFor the book \"Dømmer ikke\", the Norwegian Prosecuting Authority raised a libel case against Langeland. Langeland was acquitted of libel in 1950, but passages in the book were declared null and void and the book was confiscated.\n\nLangeland died in 1958. \"Dømmer ikke\" was re-issued in 2009. A similar book, \"Forat I ikke skal dømmes\" (\"Lest Ye Be Judged\"), was issued in 1949, subsequently confiscated and then re-issued in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "3114567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3114567", "title": "Periodic Report of the United States of America to the United Nations Committee Against Torture", "text": "Periodic Report of the United States of America to the United Nations Committee Against Torture\n\nThe Periodic Report of the United States of America to the United Nations Committee Against Torture is periodically submitted by the United States government, through the State Department, to the United Nations Committee Against Torture. In October 2005, the report focused on the detention of suspects in the War on Terror, including those held in Guantánamo Bay. This particular Periodic Report is significant as the first official response of the U.S. government to allegations that prisoners are mistreated in Guantánamo Bay and in Afghanistan. The report denies those allegations. The report does not address detainees held by the Central Intelligence Agency.\n\nThe original text for the report is available:\n\n"}
{"id": "31392139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31392139", "title": "Prisoner", "text": "Prisoner\n\nA prisoner, (also known as an inmate or detainee) is a person who is deprived of liberty against his or her will. This can be by confinement, captivity, or by forcible restraint. The term applies particularly to serving a prison sentence in a prison. This term does not apply to defendants who are pre-trial.\n\n\"Prisoner\" is a legal term for a person who is imprisoned.\n\nIn section 1 of the Prison Security Act 1992, the word \"prisoner\" means any person for the time being in a prison as a result of any requirement imposed by a court or otherwise that he be detained in legal custody.\n\n\"Prisoner\" was a legal term for a person prosecuted for felony. It was not applicable to a person prosecuted for misdemeanour. The abolition of the distinction between felony and misdemeanour by section 1 of the Criminal Law Act 1967 has rendered this distinction obsolete.\n\nGlanville Williams described as \"invidious\" the practice of using the term \"prisoner\" in reference to a person who had not been convicted.\n\nThe earliest evidence of the existence of the prisoner dates back to 8,000 BC from prehistoric graves in Lower Egypt. This evidence suggests that people from Libya enslaved a San-like tribe.\n\nAmong the most extreme adverse effects suffered by prisoners, appear to be caused by solitary confinement for long durations. When held in \"Special Housing Units\" (SHU), prisoners are subject to sensory deprivation and lack of social contact that can have a severe negative impact on their mental health.\n\nLong durations may lead to depression and changes to brain physiology. In the absence of a social context that is needed to validate perceptions of their environment, prisoners become highly malleable, abnormally sensitive, and exhibit increased vulnerability to the influence of those controlling their environment. Social connection and the support provided from social interaction are prerequisite to long-term social adjustment as a prisoner.\n\nPrisoners exhibit the paradoxical effect of social withdrawal after long periods of solitary confinement. A shift takes place from a craving for greater social contact, to a fear of it. They may grow lethargic and apathetic, and no longer be able to control their own conduct when released from solitary confinement. They can come to depend upon the prison structure to control and limit their conduct.\n\nLong-term stays in solitary confinement can cause prisoners to develop clinical depression, and long-term impulse control disorder. Those with pre-existing mental illnesses are at a higher risk for developing psychiatric symptoms. Some common behaviours are self-mutilation, suicidal tendencies, and psychosis.\n\nA psychopathological condition identified as \"SHU syndrome\" has been observed among such prisoners. Symptoms are characterized as problems with concentration and memory, distortions of perception, and hallucinations. Most convicts suffering from SHU syndrome exhibit extreme generalized anxiety and panic disorder, with some suffering amnesia.\n\nThe psychological syndrome known as Stockholm syndrome, describes a paradoxical phenomenon where, over time, hostages develop positive feelings towards their captors.\n\nThe founding of ethnographic prison sociology as a discipline, from which most of the meaningful knowledge of prison life and culture stems, is commonly credited to the publication of two key texts: Donald Clemmer's \"The Prison Community\", which was first published in 1940 and republished in 1958; and Gresham Sykes classic study \"The Society of Captives\", which was also published in 1958. Clemmer's text, based on his study of 2,400 convicts over three years at the Menard Branch of the Illinois State Penitentiary where he worked as a clinical sociologist, propagated the notion of the existence of a distinct inmate culture and society with values and norms antithetical to both the prison authority and the wider society.\nIn this world, for Clemmer, these values, formalized as the \"inmate code\", provided behavioural precepts that unified prisoners and fostered antagonism to prison officers and the prison institution as a whole. The process whereby inmates acquired this set of values and behavioural guidelines as they adapted to prison life he termed \"prisonization\", which he defined as the \"taking on, in greater or lesser degree, the folkways, mores, customs and general culture of the penitentiary'. However, while Clemmer argued that all prisoners experienced some degree of prisonization this was not a uniform process and factors such as the extent to which a prisoner involved himself in primary group relations in the prison and the degree to which he identified with the external society all had a considerable impact.\n\nPrisonization as the inculcation of a convict culture was defined by identification with primary groups in prison, the use of prison slang and argot, the adoption of specified rituals and a hostility to prison authority in contrast to inmate solidarity and was asserted by Clemmer to create individuals who were acculturated into a criminal and deviant way of life that stymied all attempts to reform their behaviour.\n\nOpposed to these theories, several European sociologists have shown that inmates were often fragmented and the links they have with society are often stronger than those forged in prison, particularly through the action of work on time perception\n\nThe convict code was theorized as a set of tacit behavioural norms which exercised a pervasive impact on the conduct of prisoners. Competency in following the routines demanded by the code partly determined the inmate’s identity as a convict. As a set of values and behavioural guidelines, the convict code referred to the behaviour of inmates in antagonising staff members and to the mutual solidarity between inmates as well as the tendency to the non-disclosure to prison authorities of prisoner activities and to resistance to rehabilitation programmes. Thus, it was seen as providing an expression and form of communal resistance and allowed for the psychological survival of the individual under extremely repressive and regimented systems of carceral control.\n\nSykes outlined some of the most salient points of this code as it applied in the post-war period in the United States:\n\nBoth federal and state laws govern the rights of prisoners. Prisoners in the United States do not have full rights under the Constitution, however, they are protected by Amendment VIII which prohibits cruel and unusual punishment.\n\nGrowing research associates education with a number of positive outcomes for prisoners, the institution, and society. Although at the time of the ban’s enactment there was limited knowledge about the relationship between education and recidivism, there is growing merit to idea that education in prison is a preventative to re-incarceration. Several studies help illustrate the point. For example, one study in 1997 that focused on 3,200 prisoners in Maryland, Minnesota, and Ohio, showed that simply attending school behind bars reduced the likelihood of re-incarceration by 29 percent. In 2000, the Texas Department of Education conducted a longitudinal study of 883 men and women who earned college degrees while incarcerated, finding recidivism rates between 27.2 percent (completion of an AA degree) and 7.8 percent (completion of a BA degree), compared to a system-wide recidivism rate between 40 and 43 percent.10 One report, sponsored by the Correctional Education Association, focused on recidivism in three states, concluding that education prevented crime. More recently, a 2013 Department of Justice funded study from the RAND Corporation found that incarcerated individuals who participated in correctional education were 43% less likely to return to prison within 3 years than prisoners who did not participate in such programs. The research implies that education has the potential to impact recidivism rates positively by lowering them.\n\n\nOther types of prisoners can include those under police arrest, house arrest, those in psychiatric institutions, internment camps, and peoples restricted to a specific area such as Jews in the Warsaw ghetto.\n\n\nLight\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39845217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39845217", "title": "Restore the Fourth", "text": "Restore the Fourth\n\nRestore the Fourth is an American 501(c)(4) nonprofit that seeks to strengthen the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution and end programs that violate it. It organized protests in 2013 and 2014, and in 2015 helped to introduce the Surveillance State Repeal Act, besides other lobbying activities.\n\nRestore the Fourth originated on the social media website reddit shortly after the information leak by Edward Snowden, which detailed the US National Security Agency's (NSA) mass surveillance programs, most notably the PRISM. A subforum (known on reddit as a \"subreddit\") dedicated to the movement was created on June 8, 2013, garnering over 15,000 subscribers in 2 weeks. From there, Restore the Fourth moved to Snoonet, an IRC network for reddit communities. Most organization prior to July 4, 2013 occurred there, where local organizers, national organizers, and users from the subreddit collaborated.\n\nThe first Restore the Fourth protest occurred on June 30, 2013, in Madison, Wisconsin. Subsequent Independence Day protests occurred on July 4 with more than 70 local rallies across all 50 U.S. states and Washington, D.C.\n\nFurther rallies were held to mark Orwell Day (August 4), to push for the passage of the USA Freedom Act (October 26), and to call for the shutting down of the growing network of fusion centers across the United States (April 10). During November 2013 - April 2014, the organization saw a period of significant turnover, before relaunching with national elections in May 2014 as a 501(c)(4) nonprofit with 25 chapters around the country, under the leadership of Alex Marthews.\n\nAccording to Restore The Fourth's legislative platform, the organization seeks to:\n\n\nRestore the Fourth has received support from the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Sen. Rand Paul, and Judge Andrew Napolitano.\n\nThe NSA addressed the July 4 protest in a statement, saying: \n\"The Fourth of July reminds us as Americans of the freedoms and rights all citizens of our country are guaranteed by our Constitution. Among those is freedom of speech, often exercised in protests of various kinds. NSA does not object to any lawful, peaceful protest.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17473693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17473693", "title": "Robertson v. National Basketball Ass'n", "text": "Robertson v. National Basketball Ass'n\n\nRobertson v. National Basketball Association, 556 F.2d 682 (2d Cir. 1977), was an antitrust lawsuit filed by American basketball player Oscar Robertson against the National Basketball Association. Filed in 1970, the lawsuit was settled in 1976 and resulted in the free agency rules now used in the NBA.\n\nRobertson sought through his lawsuit to block any merger of the NBA with the American Basketball Association, to end the option clause that bound a player to a single NBA team in perpetuity, to end the NBA's college draft binding a player to one team, and to end restrictions on free agent signings. The suit also sought damages for NBA players for past harm caused by the option clause.\n\nRobertson's lawsuit prevented the planned 1970 merger of the National Basketball Association with the American Basketball Association.\n\nThe court issued an injunction against any merger. The ABA-NBA merger was thus delayed until 1976.\n\nIn 1972, Congress came close to enacting legislation to enable a merger but the measure was not passed. As a result, the two leagues did not merge until 1976.\n\nAlthough he wasn't playing anymore, Robertson was not out of sight. As president of the NBA players union, Oscar Robertson's 1970 suit against the NBA contended the draft, option clause and other rules restricting player movement were violations of antitrust laws. The suit was settled in 1976, when the league agreed to let players become free agents in exchange for their old team's \"right of first refusal\" to match any offer they might receive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3736878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3736878", "title": "Self-defense (United States)", "text": "Self-defense (United States)\n\nIn the United States, self-defense is an affirmative defense that is used to justify the use of force by one person against another person under specific circumstances.\n\nIn the U.S., the general rule is that \"<nowiki>[a]</nowiki> person is privileged to use such force as reasonably appears necessary to defend him or herself against an apparent threat of unlawful and immediate violence from another.\" In cases involving non-deadly force, this means that the person must reasonably believe that their use of force was necessary to prevent imminent, unlawful physical harm. When the use of deadly force is involved in a self-defense claim, the person must also reasonably believe that their use of deadly force is immediately necessary to prevent the other's infliction of great bodily harm or death. Most states no longer require a person to retreat before using deadly force. In the minority of jurisdictions which do require retreat, there is no obligation to retreat when it is unsafe to do so or when one is inside one's own home.\n\nA person who was the initial aggressor cannot claim self-defense as a justification unless they abandon the combat or the other party has responded with excessive force. If the aggressor has abandoned the combat, they normally must attempt to communicate that abandonment to the other party.\n\nIn the past, one could resist an unlawful arrest and claim self-defense, however the modern trend is to move away from that rule. In most jurisdictions allowing a person to resist an unlawful arrest, the state requires that the unlawful arrest be accompanied by excessive force. The older view is represented by the U.S. Supreme Court case \"Bad Elk v. United States\" where an off-duty Sioux police officer was granted a new trial after being convicted of killing an on-duty police officer who was attempting to illegally arrest the man, because, at the initial trial, the jury was not instructed that it could convict on a lesser offense, such as manslaughter.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, there is an imperfect self-defense rule, where an individual who mistakenly believes that he was justified in using deadly force in self-defense, but is not legally justified, may have a murder conviction reduced to a manslaughter conviction instead.\n\nA majority of U.S. jurisdictions do not follow the common law rule that a person must retreat prior to using deadly force. Whether the person retreated may, however, be relevant as to the reasonableness of the use of deadly force. Under the common law rule and the rule in a minority of states, the actor must have shown that he or she retreated prior to using deadly force unless: 1) it was not safe to retreat; or 2) the incident occurred at the actor's home. In addition, the Model Penal Code requires retreat or compliance, if it can be done with complete safety.\n\n"}
{"id": "31491613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31491613", "title": "Silent witness rule", "text": "Silent witness rule\n\nThe silent witness rule is the use of \"substitutions\" when referring to sensitive information in the United States open courtroom jury trial system. The phrase was first used in US v. Zettl, in 1987. An example of a substitution method is the use of code-words on a \"key card\", to which witnesses and the jury would refer during the trial, but which the public would not have access to. The rule is an evidentiary doctrine that tries to balance the state secrets privilege with the bill of rights (especially the right of the accused to a public trial, and the right to due process). In practice the rule has been rarely used and often challenged by judges and civil rights advocates. Its use remains controversial.\n\nThe conflict between the open court and state secrets privilege goes back to at least 1802 and Marbury v. Madison. Under the privilege, the government can dismiss any charges against it by claiming that important state secrets would be revealed at trial. In 1980 the Classified Information Procedures Act (CIPA) was passed as an attempt to deal with the conflict, especially the problem of graymail. The Silent Witness Rule (SWR) is a further attempt.\n\nBy 2011 the government had only attempted to use the rule a handful of times, often unsuccessfully:\n\n\nIn United States v. Rosen, in 2007 (the AIPAC Espionage Act case), the rule was used for the first real time. The government tried to use the rule extensively at first; the court rejected the idea.\n\nRosen argued that the rule was invalid because he felt it did not match CIPA requirements, and that the government had said CIPA was the only way to deal with classified information at a trial. The judge for the trial, T. S. Ellis III, disagreed that CIPA was the only acceptable way to deal with classified information. He also felt the SWR was not really part of CIPA either.\n\nEllis created a four-part \"fairness test\" to decide whether the SWR was fair. His test was a combination of the CIPA fairness test and the Press-Enterprise Co. v. Superior Court fairness test. Ellis' theory was based on the idea that the SWR effectively \"closes a trial\" from the public by disclosing different sets of evidence to the court and to the public. The four parts of his test were as follows:\n\n\nJudge Ellis decided that the Rosen case met the fairness test, and approved use of the SWR at trial. It was used for 4 minutes 6 seconds of playback of a conversation. However, Ellis sealed (kept secret) the exact way that the SWR figured into the proceedings.\n\nLamb argues that the SWR would enable trials to go ahead that would otherwise be dismissed because of state secrets privilege. He especially points out El-Masri v. Tenet, in which a German citizen was allegedly kidnapped and raped by CIA agents but was never allowed to present his case in court, and United States v. Reynolds, in which widows of Air Force contractors sued the government; both cases were dismissed because the government claimed the trial would reveal national secrets.\n\nThe rule has received media coverage for its suggested use by the government in United States v. Drake (2010). Bishop, in the Baltimore Sun, writes that lawyers say the \"secret codes quickly become confusing and risk violating the defendant's constitutional rights to a public trial.\" Jesselyn Radack of the Government Accountability Project called it an \"oxymoron,\" and pointed out that it \"would still allow jurors to see classified information, defeating the whole purpose of classification\". Josh Gerstein at Politico wrote that it might create conflict between the prosecution and the news media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54524521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54524521", "title": "Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2017", "text": "Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2017\n\nThe Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2017 (H.R. 1616) is a bill introduced in the United States House of Representatives by U.S. Representative John Ratcliffe (R-Texas). The bill would amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to authorize the National Computer Forensics Institute, with the intent of providing local and state officials with resources to better handle cybercrime threats. Ratcliffe serves as the current chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection.\n\nThe bill was passed by the House with a roll call vote of 408-3 after forty minutes of debate. Between its introduction and approval, the bill was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Homeland Security, the Subcommittee on Transportation and Protective Security, and the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.\n\nThe bill has a total of 18 cosponsors, including 17 Republicans and one Democrat.\n\nRatcliffe introduced the bill because he believes that local and state level law enforcement entities should be better equipped to handle emerging cyber threats in order to protect communities. He expressed concern that in today's world, traditional evidence of crimes, like DNA samples, might not be enough to solve cases, because criminals are more frequently breaking the law and leaving behind traces on the internet. In March 2017, Ratcliffe said, \"Cyber elements add layers of complexity to the crimes our local law enforcement officers face every day ‒ and we've got to make sure they have access to the training they need to address this trend.\"\n\nAs of July 2017, the Senate has not yet considered the bill, although Senators Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Dianne Feinstein (D-California), Richard Shelby (R-Alabama), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-Rhode Island), and Luther Strange (R-Alabama) introduced a companion bill.\n\nSenator Grassley, current Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman, supported the role of the National Computer Forensics Institute and the purpose of Ratcliffe's bill, saying the center gives officials the capacity to \"dust for 'digital fingerprints' and utilize forensics to gather evidence and solve cases.\"\n\nAs the internet has grown increasingly dominant in communications, business, and daily life, cybercrime has become a more dangerous threat to privacy and safety of both public and private entities. Americans recognize this issue, as they identified cyberattacks as the second most concerning global threat to the nation in a May 2016 survey conducted by Pew Research.\n\nThe federal government has fallen victim to cyber attacks numerous times, especially in recent years. A 2016 report from the Government Accountability Office that included a survey of two dozen federal agencies found that cyberattacks exploded in frequency by 1,300 percent over the course of a decade, with 5,500 in 2006 to as many as 77,000 in 2015. The report listed eighteen of the agencies as operators of \"high-impact systems\", meaning that leaks could cause \"catastrophic harm\" to particular individuals, the government, or the general public.\n\nIn May 2015, hackers accessed tax returns of over 300,000 people during an attack on the Internal Revenue Service, which led to the distribution of over $50 million in fraudulent refunds. Since 2007, federal agencies have dealt with at least a dozen attacks on their systems. Social Security information, home addresses, health records, and other personal data has been stolen from millions of people, including elected officials.\n\nHackers from foreign countries have played a significant role in cyber attacks against the United States. All seventeen agencies that make up the United States intelligence community agreed that Russian hackers were behind an infiltration of the Democratic National Committee's data during the 2016 United States presidential election.\n\n\"NBC News\" obtained a document from the National Security Agency that detailed a five-year period of Chinese hacking of government information, which ended in 2014.\n\nPrivate groups and businesses have also been damaged by cybercrime. Cyberattacks cost American companies more than $15 million per year. The United States loses 500,000 jobs on an annual basis due to cyberattacks. More than 50 percent of all cyberattacks are launched against American companies, leading to a loss of $100 billion in the economy each year. A Citibank ATM server attack in 2008 lead to the loss of $2 million, and a Sony hack in 2014 lead to the loss of $15 million. In 2014 alone, 44% of all small businesses in the United States were attacked, which resulted in affected companies losing an average of $8,700 each.\n\nRatcliffe and supporters of the bill aim to better equip all levels of the government to handle the increasing cyber threats that challenge both the government and American businesses and private citizens. U.S. Representative Dan Donovan (R-NY), who voted in favor of the bill, said, \"It's critical that our law enforcement agencies have the information and training they need to respond to threats. This legislation will help increase coordination between the brave men and women who defend us on the local, state, and federal level and ensure that they have the tools needed to protect the homeland.\"\n\nThe National Computer Forensics Institute has proven vital in this effort, having already worked with over 6,250 officials coming from all 50 states and even three United States territories.\n\nRepresentative Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), House Judiciary Committee chairman, said the NCFI would benefit from a clear congressional mandate. \"Authorizing the existing National Computer Forensics Institute in federal law will cement its position as our nation's premier hi-tech cyber crime training facility.\"\n\nThe objective of the bill is to authorize the National Computer Forensics Institute so that the center can \"disseminate homeland security information related to the investigation and prevention of cyber and electronic crime and related threats, and educate, train, and equip State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers, prosecutors, and judges.\" The bill aims to achieve this through amending the Homeland Security Act of 2002.\n\nWhile the National Computer Forensics Institute, based in Hoover, Alabama, has been open since 2008, the bill would ensure proper oversight and accountability, solidifying the center's position as the optimal site for training law enforcement to mitigate cyber threats.\n\nThe bill establishes that the operations of the National Computer Forensics Institute are to:\nThe NCFI would continue to be operated by the U.S. Secret Service, within the Department of Homeland Security. The network of Electronic Crime Task Forces would include stakeholders from academic institutions and the private sector under the expansion sanctioned by the authorization of the NCFI.\n\nDuring the 114th Congress, an earlier version of the bill was passed in the U.S. House on November 30, 2015. On December 1, 2015, the bill was received in the Senate and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary. No further action was taken.\n\nOn March 17, 2017, Ratcliffe introduced the bill in the House. After introduction:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48226557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48226557", "title": "The Milan Charter", "text": "The Milan Charter\n\nThe Milan Charter is a document that sets out the principles and objectives on the subject of nutrition, environmental sustainability and human rights.\n\nIt was proposed at Expo 2015 during the Milan Universal Exposition (1 May - 31 October 2015), and on 16 October 2015 it was presented to the Secretary-General of the United Nations (UN) Ban Ki-moon.\n\nThe \"charter\" indicates who signed firm commitments regarding the right to food that is one of the fundamental human rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Lack of access to healthy food, sufficient and nutritious food, clean water and energy, is considered a violation of human dignity.\n\nThe collective action of citizens, together with civil society, businesses and local, national and international is considered one of the prerequisites to win the major challenges related to food.\n\nFight malnutrition and malnutrition, promote equitable access to natural resources, the sustainable management of production processes, represent the commitment that the underwriters of the Charter of Milan undertake to support.\n\nThe Milan Charter is divided into 5 sections:\n\n"}
{"id": "23309577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23309577", "title": "Tomson v. Ward", "text": "Tomson v. Ward\n\nTomson v. Ward 1 N.H. 9 (1816) was the first New Hampshire Supreme Court decision recorded in the official New Hampshire reports.\n\nIn the case the New Hampshire Supreme Court ruled that \"[a]n unrecorded deed of lands voluntarily given up, and cancelled by the parties to it, with intent to revest the estate in the grantor, as between them and as to all subsequent claimants under them, operates as a reconveyance, and revests the estate in the grantor.\"\n"}
{"id": "26670684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26670684", "title": "Transfers of Undertakings Directive 2001", "text": "Transfers of Undertakings Directive 2001\n\nThe Transfers of Undertakings Directive 2001/23/EC is a European Union law that protects the contracts of employment of people working in businesses that are transferred between owners. It replaced and updated the law previously known as the Acquired Rights Directive 77/187/EC.\n\nThe Directive stipulates that any employee's contract of employment will be transferred automatically on the same terms as before in the event of a transfer of the undertaking. This means that if an employer changes control of the business, the new employer cannot reduce the employees' terms and conditions, unless the Directive's exception criteria are met. This is that there must be a good economic, technical or organisational reason for the change.\n\nArticle 1\nThis says the directive applies to legal transfers and mergers of an undertaking. The point to note is that it excludes transfers of company control through a simple purchase of shares, which is the most common way to effect a change in the market for corporate control.\n\nArticle 2\nThis gives definitions of transferor, transferee and the like.\n\nArticle 3\nThis states the principle that the transferee is bound to the contractual and employment law obligations of the transferor. The transferor has to state what these are beforehand.\n\nArticle 4\nThis provides the idea that dismissals should not take place just because there is a transfer. But dismissals can be made for 'any economic, technical and organisational reason'.\n\nArticle 5\nMember states can derogate from Art. 3 and 4 where the company is insolvent.\n\nArticle 6\nThis states that employee representatives positions should not change where the undertaking retains autonomy through the transfer. It is talking mainly about unions.\n\nArticle 7\nThis provides that employers thinking of transfers must consult with the workforce beforehand, through employee representatives.\n\nArticle 8-14\nThese articles are addressed to the Member States, and talk about implementation maps, and notifications to the Commission of opinions or changes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3548548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3548548", "title": "Uniform Investment Adviser Law Exam", "text": "Uniform Investment Adviser Law Exam\n\nUniform Investment Adviser Law Examination, also called the Series 65 exam, is a test taken by individuals in the United States who seek to become licensed investment adviser representatives. The exam covers topics necessary to provide investment advice to clients.\n\nThe Uniform Investment Adviser Law Examination was developed by the North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA) and is administered by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). Each Series 65, Uniform Investment Adviser Law Examination, contains a total of 140 questions. One hundred thirty (130) of the questions count toward whether the candidate passes or fails the Series 65 exam. The other 10 questions are pretest and could appear in any position within the exam but do not count towards the final grade. To pass the Series 65 Exam, candidates must correctly answer at least 94 of the 130 scored questions. Applicants have 180 minutes to complete the exam.\n\nThe Uniform Investment Adviser Law Examinations are assembled by FINRA using a process called \"on the fly.\" Each question in the pool has two parameters that are used as part of the assembly, a difficulty parameter and a content parameter. Each exam is assembled to meet the exam specifications for content and to have the same difficulty level as all other exams in the same Series.\n\nThe Uniform Investment Adviser Law Examination consists of 130 questions plus 10 pretest questions that cover topics applicants must know to provide investment advice to clients. Applicants have 180 minutes to complete the examination, and must answer at least 94 (72%) of the questions correctly to pass the Series 65 exam.\n\nThe examination is a closed book test. On completion of the examination, the score for each section and the overall test score are immediately available to the candidate.\nPrior to January 1, 2010, a score of 68.5% was required to pass.\n\nIndividuals providing investment advice are called \"Investment Adviser Representatives\" (IAR). These IARs must generally complete The Uniform Investment Adviser Law Examination (see List of securities examinations) known as the Series 65 Exam, or by meeting the exam waiver requirement by holding one or more of the following pre-qualifying designations: Certified Financial Planner (CFP), Chartered Financial Consultant (ChFC); Personal Financial Specialist (PFS), Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA), or Chartered Investment Counselor (CIC).\n\n"}
{"id": "2011698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011698", "title": "United States v. Carroll Towing Co.", "text": "United States v. Carroll Towing Co.\n\nUnited States v. Carroll Towing Co., 159 F.2d 169 (2d. Cir. 1947), is a decision from the 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals that proposed a test to determine the standard of care for the tort of negligence. The judgment was written by Judge Learned Hand wherein he described what is now called the calculus of negligence or the Hand Test, a classic example of a balancing test.\n\nThe case was the result of the sinking of the barge \"Anna C\" that took place on January 4, 1944 in New York Harbor. The Pennsylvania Railroad Company chartered the \"Anna C\" from Conners Marine Company, which was loaded with flour owned by the United States. Before the accident, the \"Anna C\" was moored at Pier 52 on the North River along with several other barges. The barges at Pier 52 were tied together by mooring lines and one barge at Pier 52 was tied to another set of barges at the adjacent Public Pier. On the day of the accident the tug \"Carroll\" was sent to remove a barge from the Public Pier. In the process of removing the barge, the line between the barges at Pier 52 and the barges at the Public Pier was removed. , p. 735</ref> After the removal of the line, the barges at Pier 52 broke free. This resulted in the sinking of \"Anna C\". The United States, lessee of the \"Anna C\", sued Carroll Towing Co., owner of the \"Carroll\" in an indemnity action.\n\nThe author of the opinion, Judge Learned Hand, stated that there was no general rule with which to deal with liability when a barge with no one on board breaks free and causes damage. Consequently, Judge Hand proposed an algebraic formula to determine if the standard of care has been met. \n\nSimply put, the test says:\nIf (Burden < Cost of Injury × Probability of occurrence), then the accused will not have met the standard of care required.\n\nIf (Burden ≥ Cost of injury × Probability of occurrence), then the accused may have met the standard of care.\n\nOn the facts, the Court ruled that leaving a barge unattended during the daylight hours poses significant risk such that it would be fair to require a crew member to be aboard the ship. Thus, the accused was found liable for negligence for being absent from the ship without excuse.\n\nThis case is most famous for its first expression of Judge Hand's formula, C > GL (cost is greater than gravity of loss) or in the more common shorthand, BPL. This formula was first suggested, however, in The T.J. Hooper, another tugboat case.\n"}
{"id": "43738527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43738527", "title": "Van Soest v Residual Health Management Unit", "text": "Van Soest v Residual Health Management Unit\n\nVan Soest v Residual Health Management Unit [2001] 1 NZLR 179 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding nervous shock cases\n\nThis case involves relatives of patients that died during surgery under surgeon Keith Ramstead at Christchurch Hospital.\n\nThe relatives sued the Residual Health Management in tort for the nervous shock that they suffered as a result of having a relative die.\n\nThe Court of Appeal rejected the relatives claim, as they were only claiming they suffered grief, holding that they law required a higher standard for a nervous shock case to be successful.\n"}
{"id": "22618474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22618474", "title": "Virtual Cybernetic Building Testbed", "text": "Virtual Cybernetic Building Testbed\n\nThe Virtual Cybernetic Building Testbed (VCBT) is a whole building emulator located at the National Institute of Standards and Technology in Gaithersburg, Maryland. It is designed with enough flexibility to be capable of reproducibly simulating normal operation and a variety of faulty and hazardous conditions that might occur in a cybernetic building. It serves as a testbed for investigating the interactions between integrated building systems and a wide range of issues important to the development of cybernetic building technology.\n\nThe VCBT consists of a variety of simulation models that together emulate the\ncharacteristics and performance of a cybernetic building system. The simulation models are\ninterfaced to real state-of-the-art BACnet speaking control systems to provide a hybrid\nsoftware/hardware testbed that can be used to develop and evaluate control strategies and control\nproducts that use the BACnet communication protocol. The simulation models used are based on\nversions of HVACSIM+ and CFAST.\n"}
{"id": "48765617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48765617", "title": "Voivodeship marshal", "text": "Voivodeship marshal\n\nA voivodeship marshal () is the head of the provincial-level government for each of the sixteen voivodeships of Poland. Elected by councillors from the provincial assembly, the marshal is the head of the collective voivodeship executive board, which acts as the \"de facto\" cabinet for the region. The current competences and traditions of the contemporary voivodeship marshal stem from the Public Administrative Reform Act of 1998, which went into effect in January 1999.\n\nA voivodeship marshal is elected by an absolute majority from the voivodeship sejmik in the presence of at least half of all assembly members. The marshal must be elected from among the councillors of the assembly. At most, two other vice-marshals are additionally elected to sit with the marshal on the executive board by the assembly. To dismiss the marshal, three-fifths of the sejmik must agree to his or her vote of no confidence, which will also result in the collapse of the executive board. A marshal can also be dismissed by the prime minister upon request of the province's centrally-appointed voivode if he or she has infringed a governing statute or the constitution. \n\nAs the head of the executive board, the marshal is tasked to organize the affairs of the body as well as the general governance of the voivodeship, acting as the provincial government's supreme public representative. The marshal, their respective executive boards, and the provincial assembly are further assisted by a marshal's office (). The marshal's office provides technical, legal, organizational, and bureaucratic support for each of these bodies in the daily running of the voivodeship. In times of emergency or threats to life, public health, security, or material loss in the province, the marshal is reserved extraordinary executive powers normally reserved for the collective executive board as a whole to make decisions. However, such decisions are subject to retrospective approval immediately upon the next convening of the board. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "10979806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10979806", "title": "Way of Human Rights", "text": "Way of Human Rights\n\nThe Way of Human Rights () is a monumental outdoor sculpture in Nuremberg, Germany. It was opened on 24 October 1993. It is sited on the street between the new and old buildings of the Germanisches Nationalmuseum, connecting Kornmarkt street and the medieval city wall.\n\nIn 1988, a twelve-person jury from the Germanisches Nationalmuseum held a design competition to decide on the artistic design of the Kartäusergasse street in Nuremberg. The winner was a proposal by Israeli artist Dani Karavan consisting of a gate, 27 round pillars made of white concrete, two pillars buried in the ground showing only a round plate, and one columnar oak, for a total of 30 pillars. Engraved in each pillar is one article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in German and another language. The pillars are 8 metres in height, 80 cm in diameter, and spaced regularly at 5 metres along an axis. The north gate mirrors the medieval city gate located at the south end of the street.\n\nThe site of project has a layered history, including the remnants of a monastery, the medieval city wall, buildings designed by Sep Ruf in the 1950s and 1960s, and a glass-enclosed entrance designed by the firm ME DI UM in 1993.\n\nThis sculpture is part of Nuremberg's efforts to shake off its Nazi-era reputation as the \"City of the Party Rallies\" and reinvent itself as a \"City of Peace and Human Rights\". In 2001, Nuremberg was honored for this attempt at transformation with the UNESCO Prize for Human Rights Education, the \"Way of Human Rights\" being specifically cited. The monument is intended as both a repudiation of past crimes and a permanent reminder that human rights are still regularly violated. Nuremberg's prize for human rights, the Nuremberg International Human Rights Award, is awarded on the site every two years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20497215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20497215", "title": "World Trade Organization Dispute 160", "text": "World Trade Organization Dispute 160\n\nOn January 26, 1999, the European Communities (EC) and its Member States requested consultation with the United States concerning a dispute over discrepancies between the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs Agreement) and Section 110(5) of the United States Copyright Act amended by the Fairness in Music Licensing Act. The dispute was over the legality of “the playing of radio and television music in public places (such as bars, shops, restaurants etc.) without the payment of a royalty fee” (World). The disputed parties worked through the existing process of WTO Dispute Settlement. First the EC lodged a complaint against the US with the Dispute Settlement Body (DSB) and requested consultation over the dispute. Then the parties requested a panel leading to the body’s eventual formation, followed by the circulation of the panel report. The parties accepted the Panel Report without appeal and the dispute ended in arbitration over implementation of the panel’s recommendations. Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, and Switzerland acted as third parties in this dispute (World).\n\nThe European Community and its Member States considered the United States in violation of international copyright law at the cost of European artists. The European Community questioned the US Copyright Act in which Section 110(5) creates two exemptions. The first, a so-called “business exemption,” allowed food, drink, and retail establishments under certain size and equipment restrictions, to display audio or visual transmissions without paying a royalty fee provided the establishments did not charge directly for the transmission and did not display the service beyond the establishment’s boundaries. The second, a “homestyle exemption,” gave the same exemption to small establishments that used only broadcasting equipment commonly found in private homes (World). The two TRIPs articles cited by the European Community disagreed with the US exemptions; stating 1) in article 13, that exceptions to copyright law would be exclusive to cases that do not “unreasonably” run contrary to the interests of the right holder and 2) in article 9(1), that members party to the TRIPs agreement would almost entirely comply with the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works (TRIPS).\n\nThe Berne Convention is an international agreement that defines creative property rights across borders, which gives the copyright holder the exclusive right to control not only the broadcast of the work but also the public exhibition of it through the use of “ loudspeaker or analogous instrument”. The complainant specifically noted article 11(1) of the Berne Convention which places the right to control “any communication to the public of the performance of [the] works” “by any means” solely in the copyright holder (Berne).\n\nThe Panel defined three principles that the US exemptions had to uniformly meet to prove valid. The panel stated that if the exceptions “(i) [were] confined to certain special cases; (ii) [did] not conflict with a normal exploitation of the work; and (iii) [did] not unreasonably prejudice the legitimate interests of the right holder ” they would not violate the Berne Convention (Report). The Panel, noting that 45 to 73 per cent of pertinent establishments were covered by the exemption, found the “business exemption” to violate Article 13 of the TRIPs Agreement, thus inconsistent with Article 11 of the Berne Convention, and recommended that the Dispute Settlement Body require the United States to rework the law into accordance with the TRIPs Agreement. Comparatively, the “homestyle exemption,” which only affected 13-18 per cent of establishments, met the Article 13 requirements thus agreed with the Berne Convention. The DSB adopted the report on July 27, 2000 (US - Section 110(5)).\n\nThe parties calculated that the “business exemption” had nullified €1,219,900 per year. The United States proposed 15 months as a reasonable amount of time needed to implement the recommendations of the DSB and, after some arbitration, the DSB and EC accepted the time period. The US, however, failed to bring the law into the bounds of the TRIPs Agreement within the deadline, and the European Communities pressured the DSB to “suspend concessions.” As both the EC and the third party Australia bemoaned the United States’ slow progress, the US continually reported that its delegation was working with Congress to enact the settlement. In the end, the US failed to mobilize Congress to pass the issue before the next Congressional recess. The EC and the US reached a mutual temporary agreement on June 23, 2003 (World).\n\n\n"}
