{"id": "11168493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11168493", "title": "Abdelhadi Tazi", "text": "Abdelhadi Tazi\n\nAbdelhadi Tazi (June 15, 1921 – April 2, 2015) was a scholar, writer, historian and former Moroccan ambassador in various countries.\n\nTazi was born in Fes, Morocco, and attended primary and secondary studies in his hometown. Since his youth, he has contributed to the Nationalist Movement and thus experienced exile and prison.\n\nTazi died in Rabat, Morocco, aged 94.\n\n\nSince his youth (1935) he has published numerous articles and essays (more than 600) and translated many works and studies from English and French into Arabic.\n\n1963/1967: Ambassador of the Kingdom of Morocco in Iraq republic\n1967/1968: Ambassador of the Kingdom of Morocco in Libya \n1968/1972: Back to Baghdad as an ambassador, he also achieved diplomatic missions within the Persian Gulf\n1973: Director of the Institute for Scientific Research. \n1979: Ambassador in the Islamic Republic of Iran, then in charge of mission at the Royal Cabinet of the Kingdom of Morocco. \n1990: Chairman and Founder of the Moroccan Diplomatic Club. \n1992: Chairman of the sixth International Conference of Geographical Names Standardization. \n\none of his important work is the travels of Ibn battuta \nRihla ( - simply referred to as the Rihla الرحلة or \"The Journey\") is a medieval book which recounts the journey of the 14th-century Moroccan scholar and traveler Ibn Battuta.\nProfessor and lecturer in several Institutes, High Schools and Universities in Morocco and around the world about international relations, civilization and history.\nHas participated to many conferences and congress (cultural, social and political), including summit conferences.\n\nand of many other regional and international associations\n\n• Throne Wissam (Morocco 1963).\n• El Hamala Al Kobra (Libya 1968).\n• Wissam Arrafidaine (Irak 1972).\n• The Intellectual first Class Merit Medal (Morocco 1976)\n• The Gold Medal of the Academy of the Kingdom of Morocco (1992).\n\n Here there are some of the author's works:\n Moroccan-Iranian relations \n Moroccan 'Waqfs' in Jerusalem \nIran between yesterday and today \nAl Maghraoui and his pedagogic thinkings \nMoroccan diplomatic history as a comic \nTaha Hussein in Morocco \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46438715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46438715", "title": "Alexander Ruttkay", "text": "Alexander Ruttkay\n\nAlexander Ruttkay (born 4 April 1941) is a Slovak archeologist and historian. The head of the Archeological Institute of Slovak Academy of Science in Nitra in 1991-2008.\n\nRuttkay was born in Budapest, Hungary. He graduated from high school in Piešťany in 1958, then studied archeology at the Faculty of Philosophy at Comenius University in Bratislava (1958-1963). He deals with problems of the settlement structure and historical demography, early feudal settlements in the 9th-13th century, Christianisation and the oldest religious buildings. He worked in leading positions in research and academic institutions in Czechoslovakia and Slovakia. He led a successful field research in archeological sites in Koš - Klatkej kopec, Ducové \"Kostelec\", Nitrianska Blatnica \"Jurko\", Partizánske - Šimovany, Nitra - Dražovce, etc.\n\nRuttkay is a member of international scientific organisations like European Academy of Sciences and Arts, Committee of International Union for Prehistoric and Protohistoric Sciences (UNESCO), German Archaeological Institute, executive committee of international castellological association Castrum Bene (president of the society, 1998-2000) and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18372097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18372097", "title": "Andrej Grubačić", "text": "Andrej Grubačić\n\nAndrej Grubačić is a US-based anarchist theorist, Balkan federalist, and Anthropology Professor with a Yugoslavian background who has written on cooperation and mutual aid in world history, world systems theory, anarchism and the history of the Balkans. He is the grandson of Ratomir Dugonjić, Yugoslav partisan leader and communist revolutionary. An advocate of an anarchist approach to world-systems theory, Grubačić is one of the protagonists of \"new anarchism\",\nand a member of the anti-authoritarian, direct-action wing of the global justice movement. He is also a member of the International Organization for a Participatory Society. His writings and interests range from comparative world history of exilic (\"non-state\") spaces and exilic societies to the neo-marxist world-systems analysis, and from the sociology of stateless democracy to the history of mutual aid.\n\nGrubačić co-founded the Global Balkans network of the Balkan anti-capitalist diaspora,\n\nthe Yugoslav Initiative for Economic Democracy, \"Kontrapunkt (magazine)\", and \"ZBalkans\"–a Balkan edition of \"Z Magazine\". He is or has been active as an organizer in networks such as the post-Yugoslav coalition of anti-authoritarian collectives DSM!, Peoples Global Action, the World Social Forum, Freedom Fight and as a program director for the Global Commons.He is a member of Retort collective, a collective of radical intellectuals based in the Bay Area. \nAs an anarchist educator, Grubačić travels around North America giving talks, lectures and workshops. He taught about anarchist education at Z Media Institute in Boston. He is a member of Bound Together Books in San Francisco, a collectively run anarchist bookstore. He is active with the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW or the Wobblies). He is involved with the mutual aid project with five prisoners on death row from Lucasville Southern Ohio Correctional Facility. He wrote about the 1993 Lucasville rebellion, when 450 Lucasville prisoners, including an unlikely alliance of the Aryan Brotherhood and Gangster Disciples, rioted and took over the facility for 11 days.\n\nFollowing the collapse of Yugoslavia, Grubačić left for the United States. He moved to Binghamton University where he participated in research working groups at the Fernand Braudel Center on anarchist implications of world-systems analysis. In 2008 he moved to San Francisco and worked in the sociology department at the University of San Francisco and urban studies department at the San Francisco Art Institute. He is now a Professor and Department Chair of Anthropology and Social Change Anthropology at the California Institute of Integral Studies. His interest in world systems analysis and anarchist anthropology has influenced his research perspective, which includes experiences of self-organization, voluntary association, and mutual aid on the world-scale. His ongoing research on exilic spaces in the modern capitalist world system considers how spatial expressions of concentrated mutual aid are produced and reproduced on the outside/inside of capitalist civilization. Exilic spaces and practices refer to liminal and non-state areas relatively autonomous from capitalist valorization and state control. His principal research focus is on the autonomous \"cracks\" peopled by Don Cossacks, Atlantic pirates, Macedonian Roma, Jamaican Maroons and Mexican Zapatistas. This research is included in his UC Press book \"Living at the Edges of Capitalism\". Co-authored with Denis O'Hearn, the book is a winner of the 2017 American Sociological Association PEWS prize for Distinguished Scholarship. His other research interests include the history of the Balkans, militant research, and activist ethnography \n\nIn 2006, Grubacic teamed up with activist and historian Staughton Lynd to write the book \"Wobblies and Zapatistas\"\n\nHe went on to edit \"The Staughton Lynd Reader\", and offer a new programmatic proposal for the \"libertarian socialism for the 21st century,\" inspired by Lynd's work.\n\nHis most recent academic book is \"Living at the Edges of Capitalism\", co-authored with Denis O'Hearn and winner of the 2017 American Sociological Association Political Economy of the World-System (PEWS) Book Award.\n\nHis other works include books in Balkan languages, chapters and numerous articles related to the history and utopian present of the Balkans, anarchism, and radical sociology. Grubačić worked with David Graeber to develop an anarchist version of world-systems analysis.\n\nGrubacic is a Professor and Department Chair at CIIS California Institute of Integral Studies. Grubačić also works as a guest host of the KPFA radio program \"Against the Grain\".\n\n\n\nThe World Social Forum, in its near decade of existence, has popularized the slogan \"Another World Is Possible.\" Although many on the left may agree, and there is broad agreement about the nature of the world we live in and the shape of the one we wish to create, there is less agreement on how to create that new world. \"Wobblies and Zapatistas\", a conversation of sorts between longtime anarchist activist Grubacic and Staughton Lynd, who for the last 40 years has been one of the iconic figures of the U.S. left, is a contribution to resolving that argument—or at least turning it into a productive discussion.\n\nMore theoretical and frankly meandering is \"Wobblies and Zapatistas,\"... The conversation starts out with the Chiapas rebellion and the Industrial Workers of the World—\"the Zapatistas of yesteryear,\" in Lynd’s phrase—but makes brief stops with the community organizing efforts of former steelworkers in post-industrial Youngstown, the 1946 general strike in Oakland, the Vietnam-era antiwar movement, and the 1980s revolutionary upsurges of Central America. Lynd ties it all together with his concept of \"accompaniment\"—basically, throwing one’s lot in with oppressed, sharing the burdens and risks of their struggles.\n\nThis volume brings together two radical intellectuals from alternative political traditions for an extended conversation about theory, activism, and the state of radical politics today. Throughout their conversation, Staughton Lynd, the civil rights organizer, antiwar activist, lawyer, and radical historian, responds to the probing questions of Andrej Grubacic, the radical sociologist and activist from the Balkans.\n\nThis is a splendid time for the North American reader to meet the extraordinary Andrej Grubacic. After something of a letdown following the Seattle 1999 events– including what many of us perceived as an ideology-driven sectarian turn–anarchists are back in the news with the Occupations. No, not the anarchism of Bakunin or even Bookchin, but anarchism in a new key as well as a new generation, more practical and more open.\n\nWhen this writer worked in Kosovo, attempts to interview people from the small community of Serbs that remained there after the European Union took over the city almost invariably failed...Mr. Grubačić also proposes what he calls a \"balkanization from below, a pluricultural concept in which, however, rejects that of the European Union.\" In this idea, Balkan people need to \"find the strength and orientation for a new politics for another Balkans. It should be a politics of a Balkan Federation. A participatory society, built from the bottom up, through struggles for the creation of an inclusive democratic awareness, participatory social experiments, and an emancipatory practice that would win the political imagination of all people in the region.\" \n\nAndrej Grubačić is probably the most radical writer to approach the Balkans. He does so from an anarchist perspective, and his ideas are informed by both his background and his politics. Although he is from Belgrade, which is now the capital of Serbia, he continues to think of himself as Yugoslav, despite the fact that Yugoslavia no longer exists as a country. This paradox of identity illustrates the difficulties that the changing political landscape of the Balkans have caused for people from the region.\n\nDon't Mourn, Balkanize! is divided into two main sections—on balkanization from above and balkanization from below—both chronologically organized and both revolving around the same themes: the politics of exclusion, intervention, and resistance, within and beyond the Balkans, but especially in Serbia, Bosnia, and Kosovo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54748348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54748348", "title": "Arndt Verlag", "text": "Arndt Verlag\n\nArndt Verlag is a German publishing house that belongs to the publishing group of the extremist publisher . It specialises in historical revisionist literature. Arndt's authors include revisionist historians and extremist authors, such as David Irving, Wilfred von Oven, Franz Kurowski and Franz W. Seidler.\n\nArndt Verlag was founded in 1963 by Heinz von Arndt, who was a member of the neo-Nazi Deutsche Reichspartei and later of the NPD. In 1983, the publisher took over the publishing house and integrated it into his publishing company. Munier built Arndt into one of the largest and most important right-wing publishing houses in Germany.\n\nAccording to the State Office for the Protection of the Constitution of Schleswig-Holstein, Arndt Verlag is trying to \"give readers a positive picture of the national-socialist terror\". The Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution mentions the publishing house in its reports for 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. Its illustrated books \"gloss over the Nazi period\" and glorify the military techniques of the \"Third Reich\". Arndt's publications advance a German claim over the Sudetenland.\n\nArndt Verlag's authors included revisionist historians and extremist authors such as:\n\n"}
{"id": "35504154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35504154", "title": "Battle of the Nations (Medieval Tournament)", "text": "Battle of the Nations (Medieval Tournament)\n\nThe Battle of the Nations is an international historical medieval battles world championship, first held in 2009, in Kharkiv, Ukraine and held in Europe, in April, every year since.\n\nIt is a full contact competition using metal weapons and a standardized list of rules.\nNational teams compete in several standard events, with all being full contact - no stage reenactment battles are included.\n\nTeams from up to 25 countries have entered the tournaments.\n\nNational teams of different countries compete at “Battle of the Nations”. Under the rules of BN, a national team has to consist of at least 8 and a maximum of 50 fighters. Any representative of any of the HMB clubs , as well as an individual fighter, provided he has gone through a selection process conventional for a country, can become a member of a national team.\n\nQualifying tournaments are competitions, where battles are held in accordance with the unified international rules for the historical medieval battle. National teams organize qualifying tournaments to find the best HMB fighters of a country. The unified international rules, according to which battles are held, have been written especially for \"Battle of the Nations”. Before the unified rules were written, the countries had different HMB rules.\n\nThe tradition for this combat/competition has largely come from Russia, where enthusiasts have held previous events where full contact \"battles\" of large numbers of armoured combatants, are held, often in historical sites. The emphasis is put on the combatants wearing historically accurate equipment and heraldry, and the use of appropriate weapons for the combat.\n\nThe heraldry, however, reflects the modern competition teams, rather than necessarily historically correct heraldic device that may have been worn by combatants in the medieval period. The first tournament was held at the Khotyn Fortress in Ukraine in 2010. The combatants depict armoured fighters from the 12th - 15th century. A number of different forms of combat take place, including some involving individuals, 5 a side or 21 on each side. Over 200 armoured men at arms take place in the competition, and in addition to melee/hand-to-hand weapons, archery is also featured.\n\nTeam Quebec (also known at Ost du Quebec) was the first non-European team to enter the tournament in Ukraine in 2011. Their captain put a team together of 9 fighters and 3 support staff who traveled from Montreal Quebec to take part in the tournament. They also held the first friendly tournament under the HMB rules in St-Eustache in February 2012 where participants from Ontario and USA took part. Together with Scallagrims group from Toronto they founded the National Medieval Martial Arts League in Canada.\n\nUS combatants entered a team for the first time in 2012, with a number of their members coming from the Society for Creative Anachronism. The US team is a cross-group association of historic martial arts organizations.\n\n\"Battle of the Nations 2012\" gathered participants from 12 countries.\n\nBy the following year, that number increased to 22 teams which participated in the \"Battle of the Nations 2013\", which was held in Aigues-Mortes in southern France. This was the first time the event was held outside east Europe.\n\n\"Battle of the Nations 2014\" took place on 12 June in Trogir, Croatia. This was the year of the first female official nomination in the fencing \"Triathlon\". An innovation for the championship.\n\n\"Battle of the Nations 2015\" was held in Prague, Czech Republic, 7–10 May. The women's buhurt category: all vs all - was promoted to be the innovation for that year's championship.\n\nList of participants (Sorted by first-year participation):\n2010 — Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Poland\n2011 - Germany, Italy, Quebec\n2012 - Austria, United States, Israel, Denmark, The Baltic States- union of Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia\n2013 - Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Czech Republic & Slovakia, France, Japan,Luxembourg, New Zealand, Spain, United Kingdom\nFighters from Portugal also attended, and fought with the Luxembourg team.\n2014 - Chile, Netherlands, Finland, Switzerland, Mexico.\n\nAbout 25,000 attend the event annually.\n\nThe first meeting for the organization of the festival and the championship was held in Kharkiv in 2009. Its participants, captains of the first national teams, came to a consensus concerning how to hold the event. Since the rules could vary in different countries and even in different regions of one country, they also agreed of a set of unified international rules for the conduct of battles.\n\nThe first \"Battle of the Nations\" event was held in 2010 in Khotyn (Ukraine). It was attended by the national teams of four countries: Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Poland. Russia won most of the first places. The program included three categories: a duel (1 vs 1), group battles (5 vs 5) and mass battles (21 vs 21). For those who were not members of the national teams, but came to support the comrades, there were non-security buhurts.\n\nThe second event, in 2011, was also held at the Khotyn Fortress. seven national teams participated; the previous four and three novice teams: Italy, Germany, Quebec. Two more categories were added to the three classic ones, namely the “professional fight” and “all vs all”. The latter category allows participants who are not members of the national teams to fight for their countries. The first places were won by Russia. The festival was attended by about 30,000 spectators and a documentary about the life of the participants was shot.\n\nThe 2012 event was held in Warsaw, Poland, and included representatives of twelve countries. A feature of the festival were battles of mounted knights, that were included in the program of the traditionally foot world championship in HMB for the first time. The top four teams were Russia, Ukraine, Poland, and USA.\n\nThe 2013 event was held in Aigues-Mortes, France. Twenty-two teams from Europe, the Americas, and the Pacific Rim took part. With the increase of teams, there were no \"pro rules\" fights or mounted jousting in the main arena. The top four teams were Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, and USA.\n\nThe 2014 event was the fifth event, and was held in Trogir, Croatia. Around 30 countries were expected.\n\nThe 2015 event was the sixth event, and was held held in Prague.\n\nThe 2016 even was the seventh event, and was held in Prague. 35 countries were expected.\n\nThe 2017 event was the eighth event, and was held in Barcelona, Spain and was the first year that the Chinese, Brazilian and Turkish team joined Battle of the Nations. \n\nThe 2018 event was the ninth even, and was held in Rome, Italy\n\nThe 2019 even will be the 10th event, and is expected to be held in Serbia.\n\nValid battle categories of the competitions held among national teams on the HMB and a brief explanation of them:\n\nFor the 10th aniversary in 2019, the HMBIA announced the 150 vs 150 category, a unique mass-battle event where alliances of teams from the 30vs30 category fight in the largest mass battle category ever offered. \nOld categories: \nValid non-battle categories\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16816176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16816176", "title": "Boy Wonder (novel)", "text": "Boy Wonder (novel)\n\nBoy Wonder is a novel by James Robert Baker published in 1988. The novel is a mock of oral history of Los Angeles, California in which we hear the life of Hollywood avant-garde film producer Shark Trager.\n\nOrange County, California 1950: GALE 'SHARK' TRAGER is born to long-suffering WINNIE TRAGER in the backseat of her car at a drive-in. Shark's arch-conservative father MAC TRAGER (who looks uncannily like actor Glenn Ford) learns the news and ends up running someone off the road on his way to the hospital. Shark immediately is a strange kid, suffering from childhood obesity and not helped by the fact that Winnie is a hypochondriac and Mac is a racist bully. When Winnie grows catatonic, Mac brings in sexy GLADYS FRAZER to take over the wife/mother role in the family. Shark grows up, making friends with gay neighbor KENNY ROBERTS, acne-ridden misfit PUS JENKINS and intellect ELLIOT BERNSTEIN. Winnie dies after climbing into an active freezer and Gladys leaves Mac soon after as the neighbors shun her for being a homewrecker.\n\nAs Shark grows up, he falls in love with the movies—his only escape from the bleakness of his own sad childhood—and he becomes an insatiable cinemaphile. Mac's sister LORNA moves in to help Mac raise Shark, but spends her nights fending off Mac's lonely drunken advances. In high school, Shark loses his baby fat and matures into a rakishly handsome young man who strongly resembles Errol Flynn. One day while working at his father's gas station, Shark notices beautiful blonde California teen KATHY PETRO for the first time and he's instantly smitten with her. Kathy is the daughter of powerful local oil magnate JACK PETRO, but everyone at school frowns upon Shark, so Kathy doesn’t give him the time of day. Obsessed with Kathy, Shark takes a movie camera over to her house one night and films her from outside her bathroom window as she masturbates. When Shark tries to get the film developed, he's arrested and Kathy's parents soon learn what a pervert Shark is. Mac freaks out, taking away all of Shark's film equipment as punishment. Shark's relationship with his father only worsens after Shark starts dating an adorable Japanese girl named JUDY OSHIMA. When Mac orders Shark to drop his pants for a VD 'drip check,' Shark accuses the old man of being a homo; Mac is thunderstruck by this accusation—possibly because it's true? Another incident occurs when Kathy Petro makes out with a boy in the local movie theater and Shark, sitting jealously in the seat behind, accosts them. Unfortunately, Shark's girlfriend Judy dies when her moped is struck on the highway. Shark soon gains another friend, easy-going WOODY HAZZARD, a local surfer and small-time drug dealer whom Shark moves in with.\n\nOne day Kathy Petro shows up, trying to buy some acid for her boyfriend, JEFF STUBEN; she gets it, but when Jeff has a bad trip and accidentally cuts his own head off with a chainsaw, the cops storm Shark and Woody's place. Shark swallows all the acid and has a bad trip himself in jail. Shark decides to go to film school at UCLA and meets the sensitive and talented NEAL RIDGES, as well as sophisticated SIMONE GATANE. Shark moves into James Dean's old house in the valley and he and Simone start hooking up as he makes his maiden film, \"PILLOW FUCK\", a wry deconstruction of those insipid 1960s Rock Hudson/Doris Day romantic-comedies. The film is notoriously good and Shark's personal hero, famous French director JEAN-CLAUDE CITROEN, shows up for a screening. Unfortunately Citroen utterly trashes the film afterward and Shark is so devastated that he takes off and burns the only print. Soon after, Shark is living with a gung-ho nut named DRAKE BREWSTER who helps Shark lose weight again and get a security job in Santa Barbara. Shark gets a hold of a graduate student's screenplay and contacts fellow UCLA film student, SUE SCHLOCKMANN, whose father is a low-budget film distributor in Hollywood. Shark pumps up his relationship with Sue and gets her father to give him a producing deal. To everyone's surprise, \"SEX KILL A GO-GO\" is a huge success. When the draft board calls Shark in, he forces himself to ejaculate on the guy in line in front of him to get out of the draft. When Sue notices Shark's infatuation with Kathy Petro, she tries to distance herself from him, but Shark proposes and the two get married instead. Elliot Bernstein, who originally dated Sue and still loves her, is devastated.\n\nShark next does \"REDNECK SCUM\", but when he learns Kathy Petro has gone to France as a model and has started dating Jean-Claude Citroen, he decides to make the movie about them. Shark's obsession with Kathy gets the best of him and he starts dating a fifteen-year-old Lolita-esque Kathy lookalike named CINDY, whom he takes to Cannes along with his latest movie, a murderous lovers-on-the-run art film entitled \"WHITE DESERT.\" Jean-Claude uses his power to get Shark's movie banned from competition, but a late night screening wins over the hearts of the viewers and it becomes a success. Unfortunately, Jean-Claude picks up Cindy and Shark tracks him down on the beach and beats the hell out of him. Shark returns to America only to find Sue's father, angry at Shark's abuse of his daughter, has slipped in some contractual wording and Shark now owes him $6 million. Luckily for Shark, another rival studio buys the pic and Shark's production deal away. Shark makes another movie with a Kathy Petro look-alike in the lead role, an \"EXORCIST\"-esque thriller called \"THE CONDOIST.\" Kathy does her own movie, however, a small art house romantic-comedy—and winds up getting critically panned for her vapid, amateurish performance; Shark sends her an apologetic note. Soon after, Kathy starts dating BETH, a militant lesbian, and Shark makes yet another movie, this time about Kathy and Beth's relationship—a lesbian variation on \"THE SEARCHERS\" which Shark calls \"SCAR.\" Beth's father, however, is a powerful guy in Hollywood and he gets the movie pulled. Unfortunately, Beth's father dies when Beth angrily confronts him, and Shark continues unabated. It's then that Shark meets CAROL VAN DER HOF, a charming socialite with a club foot. Shark ends up partnering with Carol and the two form the perfect personal and professional relationship. Hollywood loves them, although Carol is secretly enamored with Shark. Their next flick, a mod late-60s film entitled \"MONDO JET SET,\" is a huge success. Simultaneously, Woody starts having an affair with Kathy, trying his best to keep it a secret from Shark. Kathy's in love for the first time, but everything changes when Woody starts dating a gay film exec named BRIAN STRAIGHT. Brian hates Shark and when Shark messes with Woody, Brian proposes to Kathy in order to help both their careers. Shark explodes when he learns of this, and he storms over to their house and beats the hell out of Brian.\n\nShark decides to make a movie out of a tragedy that happened in his neighborhood when childhood friend Pus Jenkins murdered a number of local teens. He spends millions on the first scene (an uninterrupted, twenty-minute long shot) and has to blackmail the studio boss with a sex film of his wife in order to keep the movie alive. In the end, Shark comes under fire for hiring Pus himself to play the father of one of the murdered teens. Even worse, Shark starts an affair with Carol, but when he spurns her, she goes on set and cuts off her own club foot. In the climactic scene where the house explodes (they’re filming at Shark's childhood home), Shark races up and dives into the freezer his mother died in just as the bombs go off. Shark survives, but afterward is stabbed by a family member of one of the films’ victims. The studio tries to shelve the film, entitled \"RED SURF,\" but Shark spends all his millions to buy it back. Unfortunately, it's unreleasable and becomes Shark's own \"HEAVEN'S GATE\", effectively destroying his career.\n\nAfterward, Shark falls into drugs and soon becomes homeless. A theater worker, TODD JARRETT, hires Shark to be his projectionist because of his film knowledge, but another incident with Kathy Petro gets him fired. Soon, Shark is a genuine bum down on Venice Beach and all those who once hailed him, now ignore him. One day, however, Woody, Elliot and Carol are having lunch and spot Shark getting beaten up by some black bums. Woody and Elliot rescue Shark and send him to a Nevada detox unit, which just happens to be run by his ex-roommate, Drake Brewster. Even worse, Kathy Petro, in a downward spiral of sleeping pills, has ended up there too. To their own surprise, the long-simmering heat between them finally explodes and the two end up making love. At the same time, Shark is having an affair with another patient, NARGES PAHLAVI-BARDAHL, an Iranian sheik's daughter. Narges promises to bankroll Shark's next film. Shark is back and producing a science-fiction film entitled \"BLUE LIGHT,\" a movie no one thinks will work. He takes all his old compadres, even his father Mac, to Beirut to film. An incident involving his father and Drake Brewster culminates in Muslim fanatics almost killing them, but Shark proves to be a brave man when he bluffs being wired with explosives and talks his way out of danger. The movie becomes the highest-grossing film of all time and Shark returns to the top of Hollywood, but his fascination with Kathy Petro has driven Narges into drug dependency.\n\nOne day, Shark gets a call from the White House: RONALD REAGAN wants to meet him. Shark goes, not knowing Kathy is there at the same time to meet NANCY REAGAN and discuss her biography. Shark and Kathy end up making love in the Roosevelt room, but an unfortunate situation develops when a famous movie star donkey comes through the White House and the animal goes wild, nearly having sex with Kathy. Shark saves her from that fate. Shark and Kathy begin dating, but to Shark's sad surprise, the reality of achieving his life's desire doesn’t live up to the fantasy. Soon Shark writes a touching love story and offers Kathy the lead role. He plays upon her real-life tragedies to get her to cry on demand and the movie, \"HOME TO THE HEART\", is an emotional masterpiece. But Shark's enemies are too many and just after the movie is nominated for all kinds of Academy Awards, rumors of Shark's transgressions, true and false, come out. Shark becomes reviled. Even worse, the White House story comes out and Kathy is made to look like she had sex with the donkey.\n\nShark is slowly losing his mind and when the Academy Awards come around, he and Kathy attend, but they get booed quite a lot. Shark runs into Jean-Claude Citroen in the bathroom and attacks him, and we learn Jean-Claude regrets trashing Shark's first film: turns out he actually considered it a masterpiece but was too frightened by its power to tell Shark the truth. Afterward, Kathy wins for Best Actress and thanks Shark in her acceptance speech, but when a weaker film wins for Best Picture, Shark freaks out and nearly sodomizes his director with the Oscar he believes is rightfully his. Shark and Kathy flee the Awards, but when she puts up a fight in his car, Shark pushes her out onto the freeway. Believing she's dead, a distraught Shark drives back to the theater where he once worked to grab a film canister. The cops are after him. Shark speeds back to the exact spot where he was born, now a movieplex, and drives his car through the wall, killing a bunch of neo-Nazi kids. Unfortunately, cops arrive and shoot Shark dead. Shark is portrayed as a child killer in the media and his legacy is destroyed. Only Woody, Simone and Elliot show up for his funeral. Afterward, Kathy is given the film canister Shark tried to retrieve... and she cries when she sees it's footage of her on the beach when she was fourteen years old, something a young, lovestruck Shark filmed from afar...\n"}
{"id": "75861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75861", "title": "Cato the Elder", "text": "Cato the Elder\n\nCato the Elder (; ; 234–149 BC), born and also known as ('), ('), and (\"\"), was a Roman senator and historian known for his conservatism and opposition to Hellenization. He was the first to write history in Latin.\n\nHe came from an ancient Plebeian family who were noted for their military service. Like his forefathers, Cato was devoted to agriculture when not serving in the army. Having attracted the attention of Lucius Valerius Flaccus, he was brought to Rome and began to follow the \"cursus honorum\": he was successively military tribune (214 BC), quaestor (204 BC), aedile (199 BC), praetor (198 BC), junior consul (195 BC) together with Flaccus, and censor (184 BC). As praetor, he expelled usurers from Sardinia. As censor, he tried to preserve Rome's ancestral customs and combat \"degenerate\" Hellenistic influences. His epithet \"Elder\" distinguishes him from his equally famous great-grandson Cato the Younger, who opposed Julius Caesar.\n\nCato the Elder was born in the municipal town of Tusculum, like some generations of his ancestors. His father had earned a reputation as a brave soldier, and his great-grandfather had received a reward from the state for having had five horses killed under him in battle. However, the Tusculan Porcii had never obtained the privileges of the Roman magistracy. Cato the Elder, their famous descendant, at the beginning of his career in Rome, was regarded as a \"novus homo\" (new man), and the feeling of his unsatisfactory position, working along with the belief of his inherent superiority, aggravated and drove his ambition. Early in life, he so far exceeded the previous deeds of his predecessors that he is frequently spoken of not only as the leader, but as the founder of the Porcia Gens.\n\nHis ancestors for three generations had been named Marcus Porcius, and it was said by Plutarch that at first he was known by the additional cognomen \"Priscus\", but was afterwards called Cato—a word indicating that special practical wisdom that is the result of natural sagacity, combined with the experience of civil and political affairs. Priscus, like \"Major\", may have been merely an epithet used to distinguish him from the later Cato of Utica. There is no precise information as to when he first received the title of Cato, which may have been given in childhood as a symbol of distinction. The qualities implied in the word Cato were acknowledged by the plainer and less outdated title of \"Sapiens\", by which he was so well known in his old age, that Cicero says, it became his virtual \"cognomen\". From the number and eloquence of his speeches, he was a styled orator, but Cato the Censor (\"Cato Censorius\"), and Cato the Elder are now his most common, as well as his most characteristic names, since he carried out the office of Censor with extraordinary standing and was the only Cato who ever held it.\n\nIn order to determine the date of Cato's birth, we consider the records as to his age at the time of his death, which is known to have happened in 149 BC. According to the coherent chronology of Cicero, Cato was born in 234 BC, in the year before the first Consulship of Quintus Fabius Maximus Verrucosus, and died at the age of 85, in the consulship of Lucius Marcius Censorinus and Manius Manilius. Pliny agrees with Cicero. Other authors exaggerate the age of Cato. According to Valerius Maximus he survived his 86th year; according to Livy and Plutarch he was 90 years old when he died. The exaggerated age, however, is inconsistent with a statement recorded by Plutarch on the asserted authority of Cato himself.\n\nCato is represented to have said that he served his first campaign in his 17th year, when Hannibal was overrunning Italy. Plutarch, who had the works of Cato before him but was careless in dates, did not observe that the estimation of Livy would take back Cato's 17th year to 222, when there was not a Carthaginian in Italy, whereas the computation of Cicero would make the truth of Cato's statement in harmony with the date of Hannibal's first invasion.\n\nWhen Cato was very young, after his father's death, he inherited a small property in the Sabine territory, at a distance from his native town. There, he spent most of his childhood hardening his body by exercise, overseeing and sharing the operations of the farm, learning business and the rural economy. Near this land was a small hut abandoned after the triumphs of its owner Manius Curius Dentatus, whose military feats and rigidly simple character were remembered and admired in the neighborhood. Cato was inspired to imitate that character, hoping to match the glory of Dentatus.\n\nSoon, an opportunity came for a military campaign in 217 BC, during the Second Punic War against Hannibal Barca. Experts express some disagreement about Cato's early military life. In 214 BC, he served at Capua, and the historian Wilhelm Drumann imagines that already, at the age of 20, he was a military tribune. Quintus Fabius Maximus Verrucosus had the command in Campania, during the year of his fourth consulship, and admitted the young soldier to the honour of intimate friendship. While Fabius communicated the valued results of military experience, he chose not to inculcate Cato with his personal and political values and preferences. At the siege of Tarentum, 209 BC, Cato was again at the side of Fabius. Two years later, Cato was one of the select group who went with the consul Claudius Nero on his northern march from Lucania to check the progress of Hasdrubal Barca. It is recorded that the services of Cato contributed to the decisive and important victory of Sena at the Battle of Metaurus, where Hasdrubal was slain. He later gave several vehement speeches which he often ended by saying \"Carthago delenda est\", or \"Carthage must be destroyed.\"\n\nIn the pauses between campaigns Cato returned to his Sabine farm, where he dressed simply, working and behaving like his laborers. Young as he was, the neighboring farmers liked his tough mode of living, enjoyed his old-fashioned and concise proverbs, and had a high regard for his abilities. His own active personality made him willing and eager to employ his powers in the service of his neighbors. He was selected to act, sometimes as an arbitrator of disputes, and sometimes as a supporter in local causes, which were probably tried in front of \"recuperatores\" (the judges for causes of great public interest). Consequently, he was enabled to strengthen by practice his oratorical abilities, to gain self-confidence, to observe the manners of men, to analyze the diversity of human nature, to apply the rules of law, and to practically investigate the principles of justice.\n\nIn the area surrounding Cato's Sabine farm were the lands of Lucius Valerius Flaccus, a young nobleman of significant influence and high patrician family. Flaccus could not help remarking on Cato's energy, his military talent, his eloquence, his frugal and simple life, and his traditional principles. Flaccus himself was a member of that purist patrician faction which displayed its adherence to the stricter virtues of the ancient Roman character. Within Roman society a transition was in progress—from Samnite rusticity to Grecian civilization and oriental voluptuousness. The chief magistracies of the state had become almost the patrimony of a few distinguished families whose wealth corresponded to their upper-class birth. Popular by acts of graceful but corrupting generosity, by charming manners, and by the appeal of hereditary honours, they collected the material power granted by a multitude of clients and followers, as well as the intellectual power provided by their monopoly on philosophical education, by their taste in the fine arts, and by their knowledge of stylish literature. Nevertheless, the reaction to them was strong. The less fortunate nobles, jealous of this exclusive oligarchy, and openly watchful of the decadence and disorder associated with luxury, placed themselves at the head of a party which showed its determination to rely on purer models and to attach much importance to the ancient ways. In their eyes, rusticity, austerity, and asceticism were the marks of Sabine robustness and religion and of the old Roman inflexible integrity and love of order. Marcus Claudius Marcellus, Scipio Africanus and his family, and Titus Quinctius Flamininus, may be taken as representative of the new civilization; Cato's friends, Fabius and Flaccus, were the leading men in the faction defending the old plainness.\n\nFlaccus was a perceptive politician, who looked for young and emergent men to support him. He had observed Cato's martial spirit and heard his eloquent tongue. He knew how much courage and persuasiveness were valued at Rome. He also knew that distinction achieved on the battlefield opened the way to achievements in the higher civil offices. Finally, Flaccus knew too that for a stranger like Cato, the only way to the magisterial honors was success in the Roman Forum. For that reason, he suggested to Cato that he shift his ambition to the fruitful field of Roman politics. The advice was keenly followed. Invited to the townhouse of Flaccus, and ratified by his support, Cato began to distinguish himself in the forum, and became a candidate for assuming a post in the magistracy.\n\nIn 205 BC, Cato was appointed Quaestor, and in the next year (204 BC) he entered upon the duties of his place of work, following Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus Major to Sicily. When Scipio, after much opposition, obtained from the senate permission to transport armed forces from Sicily to Africa, Cato and Gaius Laelius were appointed to escort the baggage ships. Yet there proved not to be the friendliness of cooperation between Cato and Scipio which ought to have existed between a quaestor and his proconsul.\n\nFabius had opposed the permission given to Scipio to carry the attack to the enemy's home, and Cato, whose appointment was intended to monitor Scipio's behavior, adopted the views of his friend. Plutarch reports that the lenient discipline of the troops under Scipio's command and the exaggerated expenses incurred by the general provoked Cato's protests, such that Scipio, immediately afterward, replied angrily, saying he would give an account of victories, not of money. Cato left his place of duty after the dispute with Scipio about the latter's alleged extravagance, and returning to Rome, condemned the uneconomical activities of his general to the senate. Plutarch went on to say that at the joint request of Cato and Fabius, a commission of tribunes was sent to Sicily to examine Scipio's activity. Upon their review of his extensive and careful arrangements for the transport of the troops, they determined he was not guilty of Cato's charges. Plutarch's version, which would seem to attribute to Cato the wrongdoing of quitting his post before his time, is barely consistent with Livy's narrative. If Livy is correct, the commission was sent because of the complaints of the inhabitants of Locri, who had been harshly oppressed by Quintus Pleminius, Scipio's legate. Livy says not a word of Cato's interference in this matter, but mentions the bitterness with which Fabius blamed Scipio for corrupting military discipline and for having illegally left his province to take the town of Locri.\n\nThe author of the abridged life of Cato, commonly considered the work of Cornelius Nepos, asserts that Cato, after his return from Africa, put in at Sardinia, and brought the poet Quintus Ennius in his own ship from the island to Italy. But because Sardinia is rather out of the line of the trip to Rome, it is more likely that the first contact between Ennius and Cato happened at a later date, when the latter was Praetor in Sardinia.\n\nIn 199 BC Cato was chosen aedile, and with his colleague Helvius, restored the Plebeian Games, and gave upon that occasion a banquet in honor of Jupiter. In 198 BC he was made praetor, and obtained Sardinia as his province, with the command of 3,000 infantry and 200 cavalry. Here he took the earliest opportunity to demonstrate his main beliefs by practicing his strict public morality. He reduced official operating costs, walked his trips with a single assistant, and, by the studied lack of ceremony, placed his own frugality in striking contrast with the oppressive opulence of provincial magistrates. The rites of religion were celebrated with reasonable thrift, justice was administered with strict impartiality; usury was controlled with deep severity, and the usurers were banished. Sardinia had been for some time completely calmed, but according to Aurelius Victor, a revolt in the island was subdued by Cato during his Praetorship.\n\nIn 195 BC, when he was only 39 years old, Cato was elected junior consul to his old friend and patron Flaccus. During his consulship, he enacted the first two of the Porcian Laws, which expanded the protections of Roman citizens against degrading or capricious punishment under the Republic's Valerian Law.\n\nIn 215 BC, at the height of the Second Punic War and at the request of the tribune of the plebs Gaius Oppius, the Oppian Law (\"Lex Oppia\"), intended to restrict the luxury and extravagance of women in order to save money for the public treasury, was passed. The law specified that no woman could own more than half an ounce of gold, nor wear a garment of several colours, nor drive a carriage with horses closer than a mile to the city, except to attend public celebrations of religious rites.\n\nAfter Hannibal was defeated and Rome was resplendent with Carthaginian wealth, Tribunes Marcus Fundanius and Lucius Valerius proposed to abolish the Oppian law, but Tribunes Marcus Junius Brutus and Titus Junius Brutus opposed doing so. This conflict spawned far more interest than the most important state affairs. Middle-aged married Roman women crowded the streets, blocked access to the forum, and intercepted their approaching husbands, demanding to restore the ancient ornaments of Roman matrons. They even begged the Praetors, Consuls and other magistrates. Even Flaccus hesitated, but his colleague Cato was inflexible, and made a characteristically impolite speech, which was later retold by Livy. Finally, the dissenting tribunes withdrew their opposition and the Oppian law was repealed by vote of all tribes. Women went in procession through the streets and the forum, dressed up with their now legitimate finery.\n\nJust after this controversy had been settled, Cato, who had maintained a severe and determined firm opposition, seems to have suffered no very real damage to his popularity. He soon set sail for his appointed province, Hispania Citerior.\n\nIn his campaign in Hispania, Cato behaved in keeping with his reputation of untiring hard work and alertness. He lived soberly, sharing the food and the labours of the common soldier. Wherever it was possible, he personally superintended the execution of his requisite orders. His movements were reported as bold and rapid, and he never was negligent in pushing the advantages of victory. The sequence of his operations and their combination in agreement with the schemes of other generals in other parts of Hispania appear to have been carefully designed. His stratagems and manoeuvres were accounted as original, talented, and successful; and the plans of his battles were arranged with expert skill. He managed to set tribe against tribe, benefited himself from native deceitfulness, and took native mercenaries into his pay.\n\nThe details of the campaign, as related by Livy, and illustrated by the incidental anecdotes of Plutarch, are full of horror and they make clear that Cato reduced Hispania Citerior to subjection with great speed and little mercy. We read of multitudes who, after they had been stripped of all their arms, put themselves to death because of the dishonour, of extensive massacres of surrendered victims, and the frequent execution of harsh plunders. The phrase bellum se ipsum alet—the war feeds itself—was coined by Cato during this period. His proceedings in Hispania were not discrepant with the received idea of the fine old Roman soldier or with his own firm and over-assertive temper. He claimed to have destroyed more towns in Hispania than he had spent days in that country.\n\nAfter he reduced the area between the River Iberus and the Pyrenees to a resentful and, as it turned out, temporary obedience, Cato turned his attention to administrative reforms, and increased the revenues of the province by improvements in the working of the iron and silver mines.\n\nFor his achievements in Hispania, the senate decreed a thanksgiving ceremony of three days. In the course of the year 194 BC, he returned to Rome and was rewarded with the honor of a Roman triumph, at which he exhibited an extraordinary quantity of captured brass, silver, and gold, both coin and ingots. Cato distributed the monetary prize to his soldiery, and was more liberal than might have been expected from his vigorous parsimony.\n\nThe return of Cato seems to have accelerated the enmity of Scipio Africanus, who was Consul in 194 BC and is said to have desired the command of the province in which Cato was harvesting notoriety. There is some disagreement between Nepos (or the pseudo-Nepos), and Plutarch, in their accounts of this topic. Nepos claims that Scipio failed to obtain the province, and, offended by the rejection, remained after his consulship in a private capacity at Rome. Plutarch claims that Scipio, who was disgusted by Cato's severity, was appointed to succeed him but could not convince the senate to censure Cato's administration, and passed his consulship in inactivity. Plutarch was probably mistaken, judging by the statement in Livy, that in 194 BC, Sextus Digitius was appointed to the province of Hispania Citerior. The notion that Scipio was appointed successor to Cato in Hispania may have arisen from a double confusion of name and place, since Publius Cornelius Scipio Nasica was chosen in 194 BC to the province of Hispania Ulterior.\n\nHowever true this account, Cato used his eloquence and produced detailed financial accounts to successfully defend against criticism of his consulship. The known fragments of the speeches (or one speech under different names) made after his return attest to the strength and boldness of his arguments.\n\nPlutarch affirms that, after his Consulship, Cato accompanied Tiberius Sempronius Longus as legatus to Thrace, but this seems incorrect because, although Scipio Africanus believed that one Consul should have Macedonia, Sempronius was soon in Cisalpine Gaul, and in 193 BC Cato was in Rome dedicating a small temple to Victoria Virgo.\n\nThe military career of Cato was not yet ended. In 191 BC, he, along with his old associate Lucius Valerius Flaccus, was appointed as a lieutenant-general under the Consul Manius Acilius Glabrio, who had been dispatched to Greece to oppose the invasion of Antiochus III the Great, King of the Seleucid Empire. In the decisive Battle of Thermopylae (191 BC), which led to the downfall of Antiochus, Cato behaved with his usual valor, and enjoyed good fortune. By a daring and difficult advance, he surprised and removed a body of the enemy's Aetolian auxiliaries, who were posted upon the Callidromus, the highest peak of the range of Mount Oeta. Then, coming to the aid of forces under Flaccus's command, he began a sudden descent from the hills above the royal camp, and the panic caused by this unexpected movement promptly turned the day in favor of the Romans, and signaled the end of the Seleucid invasion of Greece. After the action, the General hugged Cato with the greatest warmth and attributed to him the whole credit of the victory. That this is a fact rests on the authority of Cato himself, who, like Cicero, often indulged in the habit, offensive to modern taste, of sounding his own praises. After an interval spent in the pursuit of Antiochus and the pacification of Greece, Cato was sent to Rome by the Consul Glabrio to announce the successful outcome of the campaign, and he performed his journey with such celerity that he had started his report in the senate before the return of Lucius Cornelius Scipio, the later conqueror of Antiochus, who had been sent off from Greece a few days before him.\n\nDuring the campaign in Greece under Glabrio, Plutarch's account (albeit rejected by historian Wilhelm Drumann) suggests that before the Battle of Thermopylae, Cato was chosen to prevent Corinth, Patrae, and Aegium from siding with Antiochus. During this period, Cato visited Athens where, in trying to prevent the Athenians from listening to the propositions of the Seleucid king, Cato addressed them in a Latin speech, which required an interpreter to be understood by the audience. Whether this was out of necessity or merely a choice by Cato remains unclear, however, since the assertion that he might very well have already known Greek at the time can be made from anecdotal evidence. For example, Plutarch said that while at Tarentum in his youth he had developed a close friendship with Nearchus, who was himself a Greek philosopher. Similarly, Aurelius Victor stated he had received instruction in Greek from Ennius while praetor in Sardinia. Nevertheless, because his speech was an affair of state, it is probable that he complied with the Roman norms of the day in using the Latin language, which compliance was considered in diplomacy as a mark of Roman dignity.\n\nHis reputation as a soldier was now established; henceforth he preferred to serve the state at home, scrutinizing the conduct of the candidates for public honours and of generals in the field. If he was not personally engaged in the prosecution of the Scipiones (Africanus and Asiaticus) for corruption, it was his spirit that animated the attack upon them. Even Scipio Africanus—who refused to reply to the charge, saying only, \"Romans, this is the day on which I conquered Hannibal\" and was absolved by acclamation—found it necessary to retire, self-banished, to his villa at Liternum. Cato's enmity dated from the African campaign when he quarreled with Scipio for his lavish distribution of the spoil among the troops, and his general luxury and extravagance.\n\nCato was also opposed to the spread of Hellenic culture, which he believed threatened to destroy the rugged simplicity of the conventional Roman type. It was in the discharge of this censorship that his determination to oppose Hellenism was most strongly exhibited, and hence, the behavior from which was derived the title (the Censor) by which he is most generally distinguished. He revised with unsparing severity the lists of Senators and Knights, ejecting from either order the men whom he judged unworthy of membership, either on moral grounds or on the basis of their lack the prescribed means. The expulsion of L. Quinctius Flamininus for wanton cruelty was an example of his rigid justice.\n\nHis regulations against luxury were very stringent. He imposed a heavy tax upon dress and personal adornment, especially of women, and upon young slaves purchased as favourites. In 181 BC he supported the \"lex Orchia\" (according to others, he first opposed its introduction, and subsequently its repeal), which prescribed a limit to the number of guests at an entertainment, and in 169 BC the \"lex Voconia\", one of the provisions of which was intended to limit the accumulation of what Cato considered an undue proportion of wealth in the hands of women.\n\nAmong other things he repaired the aqueducts, cleansed the sewers, and prevented private persons drawing off public water for their own use. The Aqua Appia was the first aqueduct of Rome. It was constructed in 312 BC by Appius Claudius Caecus, the same Roman censor who also built the important Via Appia. Unauthorised plumbing into Rome's aqueducts had always been a problem, as Frontinus records much later. Cato also ordered the demolition of houses which encroached on the public way, and built the first basilica in the Forum near the Curia (Livy, \"History\", 39.44; Plutarch, \"Marcus Cato\", 19). He raised the amount paid by the publicani for the right to collect taxes and, at the same time, reduced the contract prices for the construction of public works.\n\nFrom the date of his Censorship (184 BC) to his death in 149 BC, Cato held no public office, but continued to distinguish himself in the senate as the persistent opponent of the new ideas. He was struck with horror, along with many other Romans of the graver stamp, at the licence of the Bacchanalian mysteries, which he attributed to the influence of Greek manners; and he vehemently urged the dismissal of the philosophers Carneades, Diogenes, and Critolaus, who had come as ambassadors from Athens, on account of what he believed was the dangerous nature of their ideas. He also uttered warnings against the mischievous influence of Chaldean astrologers who had entered Italy along with Greek culture.\n\nHe had a horror of physicians, who were chiefly Greeks. He procured the release of Polybius, the historian, and his fellow prisoners, contemptuously asking whether the Senate had nothing more important to do than discuss whether a few Greeks should die at Rome or in their own land. It was not till his eightieth year that he made his first acquaintance with Greek literature, though some think after examining his writings that he may have had a knowledge of Greek works for much of his life.\n\nIn his last years, he was known for strenuously urging his countrymen to prosecute the Third Punic War and to destroy Carthage. In 157 BC, he was one of the deputies sent to Carthage to arbitrate between the Carthaginians and Massinissa, king of Numidia. The mission was unsuccessful and the commissioners returned home, but Cato was so struck by Carthage's growing prosperity that he was convinced that the security of Rome depended on its annihilation. From that time, he began concluding his speeches—on any topic whatsoever—with the cry, \"Moreover, I advise that Carthage must be destroyed\" ('). Other times, \"Carthage must be destroyed\" was put more compactly as ' or \"\". Cicero's dialogue \"Cato the Elder on Old Age\" also depicted Cato's antipathy to Carthage.\n\nTo Cato the individual life was a continual discipline, and public life was the discipline of the many. He regarded the individual householder as the germ of the family, the family as the germ of the state. By strict economy of time he accomplished an immense amount of work; he exacted similar application from his dependents, and proved himself a hard husband, a strict father, and a severe and cruel master. There was little difference, apparently, in the esteem in which he held his wife and his slaves; his pride alone induced him to take a warmer interest in his sons, Marcus Porcius Cato Licinianus and Marcus Porcius Cato Salonianus.\n\nTo the Romans themselves little in this behavior seemed worthy of censure; it was respected rather as a traditional example of the old Roman manners. In the remarkable passage (xxxix. 40) in which Livy describes the character of Cato, there is no word of blame for the rigid discipline of his household.\n\nPlutarch wrote that Cato's appearance was characterized by reddish hair and keen grey eyes.\n\nCato is famous not only as statesman or soldier, but also as author. He was a historian, the first Latin prose writer of any importance, and the first author of a history of Italy in Latin. Some have argued that if it were not for the impact of Cato's writing, Latin might have been supplanted by Greek as the literary language of Rome. He was also one of the very few early Latin authors who could claim Latin as a native language.\n\n\n\nThe two surviving collections of proverbs known as \"Distichs of Cato\" and \"Monosticha Catonis\", in hexameter verse, probably belong to the 4th century AD and are not works of Cato the Elder\n\nThe wrinkle ridge system Dorsa Cato on the Moon is named after Cato.\n\nThe comune of Monte Porzio Catone, one of the Castelli Romani and close to the ruins of Tusculum, is named in honor of the Porcius Cato family.\n\nCato is portrayed by Vittorio Gassman in \"Scipione detto anche l'Africano\", a 1971 Italian film starring Marcello Mastroianni as Scipio Africanus.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57645104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57645104", "title": "Dubravko Lovrenović", "text": "Dubravko Lovrenović\n\nDubravko Lovrenović, (Jajce, 30 August 1956. – Sarajevo, 17 January 2017.), was Bosnian and Herzegovinian medievalist.\n\nLovrenović graduated at the University of Sarajevo, the Department of History from the Faculty of Philosophy in 1979.\n\nHe entered his postgraduate studies at the University of Belgrade and completed it in 1985 with the master's work \"Balkanske zemlje\nprema mletačko-ugarskim ratovima početkom XV stoljeća\" \"()\".\nAt the same school Lovrenović successfully defended his doctoral dissertation \"Ugarska i Bosna 1387-1463\" on December 18, 1999.\n\nAt the Department of History of the Faculty of Philosophy in Sarajevo he passed through all the university's posts, including tenure as full-time professor of medieval Bosnia and Herzegovina history. He spent the Winter Semester 2001/2002 as a visiting professor at the University of Yale in the United States. In 2005, he was a stipendiary at the Central European University in Budapest. He was President of the Department of History and Vice Dean for the teaching of the Faculty of Philosophy in Sarajevo.\n\nHe has published a number of books and works on the subject of his academic interest (stećci, Bosnian Middle Ages, contemporary interpretation, usage and revision, mythomania and influence of ethno-nationalsm in re-interpretation of history) in domestic and foreign professional journals, as well as dozens of essys, publicist texts. As a member of several editorial offices, Lovrenović is editor of numerous book releases, reviewed numerous editions, promoted many publications. He was organizer of scientific conferences, leader and participant in numberof scientific projects and researches.\n\nHe was an inaugurated at Academy of Sciences and Arts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where he also served as a Secretary of the Committee of historical sciences.\n\nHis main research interests were Medieval Bosnian and European History, with special reference to the region of Central-Eastern Europe; region's cultural history and material culture, stećci in particular; Hungarian-Bosnian relations in the Middle Ages; reception and interpretation of Bosnian medieval times and its modern age usage, revision and re-interpretation in form of historical myths by domestic and especially neighboring ethno-nationalist portion of political and academic elite.\n\nAs a member of the Commission to preserve national monuments of Bosnia and Herzegovina, institution which in many cases act in close cooperation with UNESCO, Lovrenović lead a project to include stećak tombstones onto World List. Since 2012 he was a member of the Society for study of medieval Bosnian history, among number of other associations and societies.\n\nLovrenović served as Deputy Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport in a Government of Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovinafrom 2001 to 2003.\nHe was active in helping and organizing support for vulnerable population and people in need around post-war Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2609358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2609358", "title": "Economism", "text": "Economism\n\nEconomism is a term in Marxist discourse. It was used by Lenin in his attacks on Karl Kautsky and the Social Democratic Party of late 19th and early 20th century Germany.\n\nThe charge of economism is frequently brought against revisionists by anti-revisionists, when economics, instead of politics, is placed in command of society; when primacy of the development of the productive forces is held over concerns for the nature and relations surrounding those productive forces. This debate was most notable upon Deng Xiaoping assuming leadership of the Communist Part of China, criticising the Maoist line as ultra-leftist and accusing them of building socialism before the economy was ready. Maoists in turn criticised Deng Xiaoping for abandoning socialism in favour of opening up the Chinese economy to capitalist reforms in a needless pursuit of expertise and recognition from capitalist nations to fuel growth.\n\nFor bourgeois capitalist economists, \"economism\" is reduction of all social facts to economic dimensions. The term is often used to criticize economics as an ideology, in which supply and demand are the only important factors in decisions, and outstrip or permit ignoring all other factors. It is believed to be a side effect of neoclassical economics and blind faith in an \"invisible hand\" or \"laissez-faire\" means of making decisions, extended far beyond controlled and regulated markets, and used to make political and military decisions. Conventional ethics would play no role in decisions under pure economism, except insofar as supply would be withheld, demand curtailed, by moral choices of individuals. Thus, critics of economism insist on political and other cultural dimensions in society. \n\nOld Right social critic Albert Jay Nock used the term more broadly, denoting a moral and social philosophy \"which interprets the whole sum of human life in terms of the production, acquisition, and distribution of wealth\". He went on to say \"I have sometimes thought that here may be the rock on which Western civilization will finally shatter itself. Economism can build a society which is rich, prosperous, powerful, even one which has a reasonably wide diffusion of material well-being. It can not build one which is lovely, one which has savor and depth, and which exercises the irresistible power of attraction that loveliness wields. Perhaps by the time economism has run its course the society it has built may be tired of itself, bored of its own hideousness, and may despairingly consent to annihilation, aware that it is too ugly to be let live any longer.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17589149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17589149", "title": "Genaro Estrada", "text": "Genaro Estrada\n\nGenaro Estrada (June 2, 1887 – September 29, 1937) was a Mexican statesman, academic, and writer. He was Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Mexico between 1930 and 1932 and the architect of the Estrada Doctrine, which stated that the Mexican government would acknowledge any foreign government, no matter how it came into power. This doctrine would influence Mexican politics all throughout the 20th century.\n\nEstrada was born in Mazatlán, Sinaloa. He served as a journalist in Mazatlán early in life and moved to Mexico City in 1912, where he was professor at the Escuela Nacional Preparatoria and entered the capital's cultural and political life. He became involved in government after the Mexican Revolution. By the end of the 1920s he served as ambassador to Spain and minister to Portugal and Turkey. He later became professor at the National Autonomous University of Mexico, where he founded the Academia Mexicana de la Historia. He also published a novel, \"Pero Galín\" (1926), and four books of satirical and political poetry. He died in Mexico City in 1937.\n\n"}
{"id": "51808970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51808970", "title": "Ghaza thesis", "text": "Ghaza thesis\n\nThe Ghaza or Ghazi thesis (from , \"ġazā\", \"holy war,\" or simply \"raid\") is a historical paradigm first formulated by Paul Wittek which has been used to interpret the nature of the Ottoman Empire during the earliest period of its history, the fourteenth century, and its subsequent history. The thesis addresses the question of how the Ottomans were able to expand from a small principality on the frontier of the Byzantine Empire into a centralized, intercontinental empire. According to the Ghaza thesis, the Ottomans accomplished this by attracting recruits to fight for them in the name of Islamic holy war against the non-believers. Such a warrior was known in Turkish as a \"ghazi\", and thus this thesis sees the early Ottoman state as a \"Ghazi State,\" defined by an ideology of holy war. The Ghaza Thesis dominated early Ottoman historiography throughout much of the twentieth century before coming under increasing criticism beginning in the 1980s. Historians now generally reject the Ghaza Thesis, and consequently the idea that Ottoman expansion was primarily fueled by holy war, but are conflicted with regard to what to replace it with.\n\nThe Ghaza thesis was first formulated in the 1930s by Turkish historian Fuat Köprülü and Austrian historian Paul Wittek. Partly in response to contemporary Orientalist historians, who tried to marginalize the role of the Turks in Ottoman state formation, Köprülü formulated what was to become the Turkish nationalist view of early Ottoman history. According to Köprülü, the Ottoman polity was formed by Turkish tribes fleeing the advance of the Mongol Empire, built upon Turkish tribal manpower, and administered by men from the Anatolian hinterland experienced in the Turco-Muslim political tradition of the Seljuks. Paul Wittek, responding to Köprülü's claims, accepted the Turco-Muslim basis of the early Ottoman state, agreeing that it grew out of the already highly developed civilization of Seljuk Anatolia and was fundamentally shaped by the unique conditions of the Byzantine frontier. Yet rather than Turkish ethnicity and tribal connections, he placed his primary emphasis upon the role of Islam. For Wittek, the Ottomans were first and foremost Islamic holy warriors. His primary evidence for this included the titles adopted by early Ottoman rulers, including an inscription erected in Bursa in 1337 describing Orhan, the second Ottoman ruler, as \"ghazi, son of ghazi.\" Wittek also relied upon the work of the early fifteenth-century Ottoman poet Ahmedi, who likewise described the early Ottoman rulers as ghazis. Thus in this formulation, the early Ottoman polity was built upon an \"ideology of Holy War,\" and was able to grow powerful by attracting warriors to join in conquering the Christians of Anatolia and the Balkans. The early Ottomans harnessed the religious and martial energies of the frontier (\"uc\") between the crumbling Byzantine and Seljuk states in order to conquer an empire. It was Wittek's formulation which became generally (though not unanimously) accepted among Western historians of the Ottoman Empire for much of the twentieth century.\n\nThe fundamental problem with the study of the fourteenth-century Ottomans is the lack of surviving documentation from that time period. Not a single Ottoman authentic written document has been found from the time of Osman I, the first Ottoman ruler. Historians are thus forced to rely upon sources produced long after the events they purport to describe. Ottoman studies have thus benefited from the techniques of literary criticism, allowing historians to properly analyze Ottoman literary works from later periods.\n\nThe Ghaza thesis came under attack from numerous scholars beginning in the 1980s. Critics drew attention to the fact that the early Ottomans acted in ways contrary to what one would expect from zealous religious warriors. They were not strictly orthodox Muslims, but rather tolerated many heterodox and syncretic beliefs and practices. They also willingly recruited Byzantines into their ranks and fought wars against other Muslims. Thus rather than describing reality, later Ottoman writers who characterized their ancestors as ghazis were \"adorning [them] with higher ideals,\" when in fact their original motivations had been much more mundane. For Ottomans writing in the fifteenth century, presenting the earlier Ottoman rulers as ghazis served their political objectives. In emphasizing the mythical and legendary quality of the stories presented by Ottoman writers, the historian Colin Imber has even gone so far as to declare the entire period a \"black hole,\" the truth about which can never truly be known.\n\nWhile many scholars criticized the Ghaza thesis, few sought an alternative to replace it. Rudi Paul Lindner was the first to try in his 1983 publication \"Nomads and Ottomans in Medieval Anatolia\", in which he argued that the peculiarities of early Ottoman activity could best be explained through tribalism. Lindner saw tribalism through the lens of anthropology, which views tribes as organizations based not on shared bloodlines, but on shared political interests. Early Ottoman raids against the Byzantines were motivated not by religious zeal, but by the nomadic tribe's need to engage in predation against settled society. The Ottomans were able to incorporate Byzantines and fight against Muslims because their organization was fundamentally tribal, which allowed them to assimilate individuals and groups of diverse backgrounds. Citing various instances of their heterodoxy, Lindner even suggested that the early Ottomans may have been more Pagan than Muslim. In Lindner's view, this tribal inclusiveness began to break down during the reign of Osman's son Orhan (r. 1323/4-1362), as the Ottomans began to shift from being nomadic pastoralists into settled agricultural society. Orhan subsequently attracted Islamic scholars to his realm, who brought with them ideas about \"ghaza\", and it was from them that he adopted the \"ghaza\" ideology in time for it to appear in his 1337 inscription in Bursa.\n\nIn his 1995 book \"Between Two Worlds: The Construction of the Ottoman State\", Turkish scholar Cemal Kafadar addressed criticism of the Ghaza thesis by arguing that previous scholars had drawn too great a distinction between \"orthodox\" and \"heterodox\" Islam – one could consider oneself a legitimate Muslim without conforming exactly to a scholarly orthodoxy. Furthermore, Kafadar argued that the early Ottomans' very idea of \"ghaza\" may have differed from that of \"orthodox\" Islam. Citing contemporary Anatolian legends, he noted that the same figure could be portrayed as a \"ghazi\" while still cooperating with Christians. In Kafadar's view, \"ghaza\" was a real ideology which gave shape to frontier warriors as a social class, not simply an import from Muslim scholars. However, the terms \"ghaza\" and \"ghazi\" had a range of different meanings which shifted over time, sometimes referring to religiously motivated warriors and sometimes not. It was nevertheless ever present, and served as simply one out of many motivating forces behind Ottoman expansion.\n\nFollowing Kafadar, the next major reformulation of the theory of Ottoman origins was carried out by Heath Lowry in 2003. Lowry attacked Wittek's sources, arguing that Ahmedi's literary work cannot be interpreted as factual history, but rather was a fictionalized idealization of the past. According to Lowry, the terms \"ghaza\" and \"ghazi\" when used in the fourteenth and fifteenth-century Ottoman context had entirely non-religious meanings, as \"ghaza\" was interchangeable with the term \"akın\", simply referring to a military raid. Many \"akıncıs\" (raiders) were also Christians, and would thus be very out of place in an army devoted to Islamic holy war. Ottoman warriors were thus motivated by the desire to win plunder and slaves, not to fight in the name of Islam. It was only certain writers, educated in the Islamic tradition, who tried to draw a connection between the secular \"ghaza\" of the frontier warriors and the religious \"ghaza\" as understood by Muslim intellectuals.\n\nWhile they differ in many particulars, these new perspectives on early Ottoman history share in the belief that early Ottoman expansion was not primarily fueled by an ideology of Islamic holy war. Historians now generally regard \"ghaza\" as having been \"a much more fluid undertaking, sometimes referring to actions that were nothing more than raids, sometimes meaning a deliberate holy war, but most often combining a mixture of these elements.\" This view also appears in Caroline Finkel's 2005 scholarly survey of Ottoman history, \"Osman's Dream\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2808613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2808613", "title": "Giovanni Aurispa", "text": "Giovanni Aurispa\n\nGiovanni Aurispa Piciunerio (or Piciuneri) (June/July 1376–c. 25 May 1459) was an Italian historian and savant of the 15th century. He is remembered in particular as a promoter of the revival of the study of Greek in Italy. It is to Aurispa that the world is indebted for preserving the greater part of our knowledge of the Greek classics.\n\nAurispa was born at Noto in Sicily in 1376. A scholarship from the King of Sicily enabled him to study at Bologna from 1404-1410. Soon after, in 1413-4, he went out to Greece as a private tutor for the sons of a Genoese merchant, Racanelli, and settled on the island of Chios. Here he learned Greek, and began to collect books, including a Sophocles and a Euripides. He also obtained a number of Greek texts, including a work by Thucydides which he later sold to Niccolo Niccoli in 1417. He returned to Italy in 1414, setting in Savona, where he supported himself by teaching Greek and by selling the works he had collected in Greece.\n\nIn 1418, Aurispa visited Constantinople, where he remained for some years, perfecting his knowledge of Greek and searching for manuscripts. He worked so hard at this that he later wrote that he had been denounced to the Byzantine emperor for buying all the sacred books in the city. Upon his return from that trip he went to Florence where he entered the service of the papal court, which was then in residence in that city. He moved to Rome the following year when the court transferred there. It was there that he taught one of his most famous students, Lorenzo Valla, later himself a noted classical scholar.\n\nIn 1421 Aurispa was sent by Pope Martin V to act as the translator for the Marquis Gianfrancesco Gonzaga on a diplomatic mission to the Byzantine emperor, Manuel Paleologos. After their arrival, he gained the favor of the emperor's son and successor, John VIII Palaiologos, who took him on as his own secretary. Two years later, he accompanied his Byzantine employer on a mission to the courts of Europe. He traveled with this mission as far as Venice, where he left the imperial service.\n\nOn 15 December 1423 Aurispa arrived in Venice, with the largest and finest collection of Greek texts to reach the west prior to those brought by Bessarion. In reply to a letter from the Camaldolese prior and scholar, St. Ambrose Traversari, he says that he brought back 238 manuscripts. These contained all of Plato, all of Plotinus, all of Proclus, much of Iamblichus, many of the Greek poets, including Pindar, and a great deal of Greek history, including volumes of Procopius and Xenophon which had been given to him by the emperor. Also the poems of Callimachus and Oppian, and the Orphic verses; the historical works of Dio Cassius, Diodorus Siculus, and Arrian. Most of the works were hitherto unknown in the West.\n\nFurther items included the oldest manuscript of Athenaeus; a 10th-century codex containing 7 plays by Sophocles, 6 by Aeschylus—the only manuscript in the world of these, plus the \"Argonautica\" of Apollonius of Rhodes; the \"Iliad\", works by Demosthenes, and many more. A work by Herodotus was also among the collection; also the \"Geography\" of Strabo. The texts are all listed in the letter to Traversari.\n\nThe only patristic text Aurispa had brought from Greece was a volume containing about 200 letters of St. Gregory Nazianzen. In a letter to Traversari, he explained:\n\nBack in Venice, Aurispa is said to have been obliged to pawn his treasures for 50 gold florins to provide for the shipping costs. Traversari wrote to Lorenzo de' Medici on his behalf, who made a loan to Aurispa to redeem the manuscripts. Traversari also arranged to exchange Niccolo's transcriptions of newly discovered texts by Cicero for Aurispa's transcriptions of Aristotle's \"Rhetoric\" and \"Eudemian ethics\".\n\nIn 1424 Aurispa went to Bologna, where he became professor of Greek at the university. But this was not a success. At the urging of Traversari, from 1425 to 1427 he held the prestigious Chair of Greek studies in Florence. This ensured that his collection was copied widely among the humanists.\n\nQuarrels at Florence led Aurispa to leave Florence in late 1427 or early 1428 and to move to Ferrara, where, on the recommendation of his friend, the scholar Guarino of Verona, he was appointed tutor to , the illegitimate son of Niccolò III d'Este, Marquis of Ferrara. He taught the classics there, took Holy Orders and obtained preferment in the Church. King Alfonso of Naples, asked him through his friend Panormita to move there, but he declined.\n\nBy 1430 Aurispa had managed to recover a bundle of his manuscripts from Sicily. These included a volume of lives of the saints, including one of St. Gregory Nazianzen, as well as one of the sermons of St. John Chrysostom, a Psalter, a volume of the Gospels, and the comedies of Aristophanes. The remainder of his manuscripts seem to have never been returned to him. In 1433 he accompanied his student Meliaduse to the Council of Basel, taking a lengthy journey along the Rhine, visiting Mainz, Cologne and Aachen, in the course of which he discovered new Latin codices.\n\nIn 1438, when the Council was transferred to Ferrara, Aurispa attracted the attention of Pope Eugene IV, who appointed him an Apostolic Secretary, and so he moved to Rome. He held a similar position under Pope Nicholas V, who bestowed two lucrative commendatory abbacies on him.\n\nAurispa returned to Ferrara in 1450 and died there in 1459, at the age of 83.\n\nConsidering his long life and reputation, Aurispa produced little: Latin translations of the commentary of Hierocles on the golden verses of Pythagoras (1474) and of \"Philisci Consolatoria ad Ciceronem\" from Dio Cassius (not published till 1510) ; and, according to Gesner, a translation of the works of Archimedes.\n\nAurispa's reputation rests upon the extensive collection of manuscripts copied and distributed by him, and his persistent efforts to revive and promote the study of ancient literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "1862953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1862953", "title": "Hard-paste porcelain", "text": "Hard-paste porcelain\n\nHard-paste porcelain is a ceramic material that was originally made from a compound of the feldspathic rock petuntse and kaolin fired at very high temperature, usually around 1400 °C. It was first made in China around the 7th or 8th century, and has remained the most common type of Chinese porcelain. \n\nFrom the Middle Ages onwards it was very widely exported and admired by other cultures, and fetched huge prices on foreign markets. Eventually Korean porcelain developed in the 14th century and Japanese porcelain in the 17th, but other cultures were unable to learn or reproduce the secret of its formula in terms of materials and firing temperature until it was worked out in Europe in the early 18th century, and suitable mineral deposits of kaolin, feldspar and quartz discovered. This soon led to a large production in factories across Europe by the end of the 18th century. \n\nDespite the huge influence of Chinese porcelain decoration on Islamic pottery, historic production was all in earthenware or fritware, the latter having some of the properties of hard-paste porcelain. Europeans also developed soft-paste porcelain, fired at lower temperatures (around 1200 °C), while trying to copy the Chinese, and later bone china which in modern times has somewhat replaced hard-paste across the world.\n\nChinese porcelain began to be exported to Europe by the Portuguese and later by the Dutch from the middle of the 16th century, creating vast demand for the material. The discovery in Europe of the secret of its manufacture has conventionally been credited to Johann Friedrich Böttger of Meissen, Germany in 1708, but it has also been claimed that English manufacturers or Ehrenfried Walther von Tschirnhaus produced porcelain first. Certainly, the Meissen porcelain factory, established 1710, was the first to produce porcelain in Europe in large quantities and since the recipe was kept a trade secret by Böttger for his company, experiments continued elsewhere throughout Europe.\n\nIn 1712, the French Jesuit François Xavier d'Entrecolles described the Chinese process of manufacturing porcelain in his letters to Europe. In 1771, the comte de Milly published \"L'art de la porcelaine\", a detailed account of the processes of creating hard-paste porcelain, ending its prestige as a rare and valuable material.\n\nHard-paste now chiefly refers to formulations prepared from mixtures of kaolin, feldspar and quartz. Other raw materials can also be used and these include pottery stones, which historically were known as petunse although this name has long fallen out of use.\n\nHard-paste porcelain is now differentiated from soft-paste porcelain mainly by the firing temperature, with the former being higher, to around 1400°C, and the latter to around 1200°C. Depending on the raw materials and firing methods used, hard-paste porcelain can also resemble stoneware or earthenware. Hard-paste porcelain can also be used for unglazed biscuit porcelain. It is a translucent and bright, white ceramic. Hard-paste has the advantage over soft-paste that it is less likely to crack when exposed to hot liquids, but the higher firing temperature of hard-paste may necessitate a second \"glost\" firing for the decoration.\n\n"}
{"id": "54477622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54477622", "title": "Horvat Maon", "text": "Horvat Maon\n\nHorvat Maʿon (also Khirbet Maʿin, Tell Maʿin) is an archaeological site near Nirim in the Negev, the arid southern portion of Israel. \n\nIt is usually considered the site of the Maon of Joshua (15:55), as well as Beth-baal-meon (Joshua 13:17) and Beth-meon (Jeremiah 48:23). The Bible identifies Maon as a place in the territory of the Tribe of Judah (Joshua 15:55), and describes Nabal as living in Maon (1 Samuel 25:2-3).\n\nHorvat Maʿon, under the name Menois, was the capital of Saltus Constantinianus, also known as Saltus Constantiniaces, an administrative district formed by either Constantine the Great or Constantius II. \n\nExcavations there have uncovered the Maon Synagogue, known for its mosaics adorned with various animals and likely built around 600 CE.\n"}
{"id": "8553019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8553019", "title": "Influence of Arabic on other languages", "text": "Influence of Arabic on other languages\n\nArabic has had a great influence on other languages, especially in vocabulary. The influence of Arabic has been most profound in those countries dominated by Islam or Islamic power. Arabic is a major source of vocabulary for languages as diverse as Amharic, Baluchi, Bengali, Berber, Bosnian, Chaldean, Chechen, Croatian, Dagestani, English, German, Gujarati, Hausa,\nHebrew, \nHindi,\nKazakh, Kurdish, Kutchi, Kyrgyz, Malay (Malaysian and Indonesian), Pashto, Persian, Punjabi, Rohingya, Romance languages (French, Catalan, Italian, Portuguese, Sicilian, Spanish, etc.) Saraiki, Sindhi, Somali, Sylheti, Swahili, Tagalog, Tigrinya, Turkish, Turkmen, Urdu, Uyghur, Uzbek, Visayan and Wolof as well as other languages in countries where these languages are spoken. For example, the Arabic word for \"book\" (كتاب \"kitāb\") is used in most of the languages listed. Other languages such as Maltese and Nubi derive from Arabic, rather than merely borrowing vocabulary. Spanish has the largest Arabic influenced vocabulary outside the Islamic world due to Muslim rule in the Iberian Peninsula from 711 until 1492 known as Al-Andalus, although Spain's re-christianization and resulting loss of contact with Quranic Arabic has led to a significant shift in both meaning and pronunciation of Spanish words of Arabic etymology.\n\nThe terms borrowed range from religious terminology (like Berber \"taẓallit\" \"prayer\" < salat), academic terms (like Uyghur \"mentiq\" \"logic\"), to everyday conjunctions (like Urdu/Hindi/Punjabi \"lekin\" \"but\".) Most Berber varieties (such as Kabyle), along with Swahili, borrow some numbers from Arabic. Most religious terms used by Muslims around the world are direct borrowings from Arabic, such as \"ṣalāt\" 'prayer' and \"imām\" 'prayer leader'. In languages not directly in contact with the Arab world, Arabic loanwords are often mediated by other languages rather than being transferred directly from Arabic; for example many older Arabic loanwords in Hausa were borrowed from Kanuri.\n\nOutside the Islamic world, there are more limited borrowings from Arabic, usually to denote vegetables and other articles in commerce, such as \"aubergine\", \"alcohol\" and also some other terms like \"admiral\". Among European languages, these mostly were transmitted through Turkish and Spanish.\n\nLike other European languages, English contains many words derived from Arabic, often through other European languages, especially Spanish. Among them is every-day vocabulary like \"sugar\" (\"sukkar\"), \"cotton\" (\"quṭn\") or \"magazine\" (\"\"). More recognizable are words like \"algebra\" (\"al-jabr\"), \"alcohol\" (\"al-kuhūl\"), \"alchemy\" (\"al-kimiya\"), \"alkali\", \"cypher\" and \"zenith\" (see list of English words of Arabic origin).\n\nA more indirect form of influence is the use of certain Latinate words in an unclassical sense, derived from their use in Latin translations of medieval Arabic philosophical works (e.g. those of Averroes), which entered the scholastic vocabulary and later came into normal use in modern languages. Examples are \"information\" to mean the imparting or acquisition of knowledge (Arabic \"taṣawwur\", mental impression or representation, from a root meaning \"form\") and \"intention\" (Arabic \"manā\", meaning). These words may almost be regarded as calques.\n\nFrench is widely spoken as a second language in France's former colonies in the Maghreb. Therefore, the list of words that are used or incorporated into the French spoken in this region (as a result of code-switching, convenience or lack of an equivalent term in standard French) is potentially endless. Such arabisms, are accepted within the local context but would not normally be known by non-maghrebi French speakers.\n\nArabic-derived words have entered standard or metropolitan French from two main sources. As is the case for many other European languages, one principal source was Spanish. The other was directly from Maghrebi Arabic as a result of the occupation and colonisation of the Maghreb, particularly Algeria, in the 19th and 20th centuries. Examples of the latter include 'bled', a slang term for place of origin, following this word's usage in the Maghreb, as opposed to the Standard Arabic \"balad\", 'country', along with the Maghrebi term 'kif kif' and 'tabeeb', a slang term for 'doctor'. A small number of Arabic terms have entered mainstream French as a result of immigration from North Africa which began after the independence of Algeria. Other slang terms such as \"niquer\" (to have sex) were taken from Oriental Arabic during Napoleon's occupation of Egypt.\n\nDozens of Arabic words occur in Interlingua, frequently because their co-occurrence in such languages as English, French, Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese can be used to verify their internationality. Many of these words entered Interlingua's vocabulary through Spanish. Arabic words in Interlingua include \"algebra\", \"alcohol\", \"cifra\" (cypher), \"magazin\", \"sucro\" (sugar), \"zenit\", and \"zero\".\n\nIn Indonesian, the loanwords from Arabic are mainly concerned with religion, in particular with Islam, but to a lesser extent Christianity. Words of Arabic origin include \"dunia\" (from Arabic: دنيا dunya = the present world), \"Sabtu\" (from Arabic: السبت as-sabt = Saturday), \"kabar\" (خبر ḵabar = news), \"selamat\"/\"salam\" (سلام salām = a greeting), \"Jum'at\" (الجمعة al-jumʿa = Friday), \"ijazah\" (إجازة ijāza = vacation), \"kitab\" (كتاب kitāb = book), \"tertib\" (ترتيب tartīb = orderly) and \"kamus\" (قاموس qāmūs = dictionary).\n\nAllah (Arabic: الله), as it is mostly the case for Arabic speakers, is the word for God even in Christian Bible translations.\n\nMany early Bible translators, when they came across some unusual Hebrew words or proper names, used the Arabic cognates. In the newer translations this practice is discontinued. They now turn to Greek names or use the original Hebrew Word. For example, the name Jesus was initially translated as 'Isa (Arabic: عيسى), but is now spelt as Yesus. Several ecclesiastical terms derived from Arabic still exist in Indonesian language.\n\nThe Indonesian word for bishop is \"uskup\" (from Arabic: اسقف usquf = bishop, ultimately from Ancient Greek \"episkopos\"). This in turn makes the Indonesian term for archbishop \"uskup agung\" (literally great bishop), which is combining the Arabic word with an Old Javanese word. The term imam (from Arabic: امام imām = leader, prayer leader) is used to translate a Catholic priest, beside its more common association with an Islamic prayer leader. Some Protestant denominations refer to their congregation as \"jemaat\" (from Arabic: جماعة jamā'a = group, community). Even the name of the Bible in Indonesian translation is \"Alkitab\" (from Arabic: كتاب kitāb = book), which literally means \"the Book\".\n\nThere are far fewer Arabic loanwords in Javanese than Sanskrit loanwords, and they are usually concerned with Islamic religion. Nevertheless, some words have entered the basic vocabulary, such as \"pikir\" (\"to think\", from the Arabic fikr), \"badan\" (\"body\"), \"mripat\" (\"eye\", thought to be derived from the Arabic \"ma'rifah\", meaning \"knowledge\" or \"vision\"). However, these Arabic words typically have native Austronesian or Sanskrit alternatives: \"pikir\" = \"galih\", \"idhĕp\" (Austronesian) and \"manah\", \"cipta\", or \"cita\" (from Sanskrit); \"badan\" = \"awak\" (Austronesian) and \"slira\", \"sarira\", or \"angga\" (from Sanskrit); and \"mripat\" = \"mata\" (Austronesian) and \"soca\" or \"netra\" (from Sanskrit).\n\nBetween the 9th century and up to 1249 when the Arabs were expelled from the Algarve, Portuguese acquired hundreds of words (between 400 and 600 estimate) from Arabic by influence of Moorish Iberia. Although the native population spoke the Lusitanian-Mozarabic, they kept some Mozarabic-derived words. These are often recognizable by the initial Arabic article \"a\"(\"l\")\"-\", and include common words such as \"aldeia\" \"village\" from \"aḍ-ḍīah\", \"alface\" \"lettuce\" from \"al-khass\", \"armazém\" \"warehouse\" from \"al-makhzan\", and \"azeite\" \"olive oil\" from \"az-zayt\". From Arabic came also the grammatically peculiar word \"oxalá\" \"God willing\". The frequency of Arabic toponyms increases as one travels south in the country.\n\nIn AD 535, Emperor Justinian I made Sicily a Byzantine province, and for the second time in Sicilian history, the Greek language became a familiar sound across the island (Hull, 1989). As the power of the Byzantine Empire waned, Sicily was progressively conquered by Muslims from North Africa, from the mid 9th to mid 10th centuries. The Arabic language influence is noticeable in around 800 Sicilian words, many of which relate to agriculture and related activities (Hull and Ruffino). \n\nSicilian words of Arabic origin include \"azzizzari\" (to embellish, from \"azīz\"; precious, beautiful), \"cafisu\" (measure for liquids, from \"qafiz\"), \"gèbbia\" (artificial pond, from \"gabiya\"), \"giuggiulena\" (sesame seed, from \"giulgiulan\", \"ràisi\" (leader, from \"ra'īs\"), \"saia\" (canal, from \"saqiya\"), and \"zibbibbu\" (a type of grape, from \"zabib\"). (Giarrizzo)\n\nThe Spanish language has been influenced by Arabic as a result of the long Islamic presence within the Iberian Peninsula, beginning with the Islamic conquest in 711-718 AD until the conquest of the last Islamic Kingdom in 1492 AD. Modern day Spanish, also called Castilian, gradually evolved from Vulgar Latin centuries after the Muslim conquest and was thus influenced by Arabic from its inception. Arabic influence increased when the expanding Kingdom of Castile spread southward, conquering territory from Muslim kingdoms during the Christian Reconquista. The Mozarabs, that had lived under Muslim rulers and had spoken their own varieties of Arabic-influenced romance (known today by scholars as the Mozarabic languages), probably had a formative influence on the language and indirectly contributed Arabic vocabulary. \nThe presence of Mozarabic refugees can explain the presence of Arabic toponyms in areas of Northern Spain where Islamic rule was shorter.\nThe only Iberian Muslim kingdom in which Arabic was the sole language at all levels of society was the Kingdom of Granada in the time of the Nasrid dynasty.\n\nIn many cases, both Arabic and Latin derived words are used interchangeably by Spanish speakers. For example, \"aceituna\" and \"oliva\" (olive), \"alacrán\" and \"escorpión\" (scorpion), \"jaqueca\" and \"migraña\" (headache) or \"alcancía\" and \"hucha\" (piggy bank). The influence of Arabic, whether directly or through Mozarabic, is more noticeable in the Spanish dialects of southern Spain, where the Arabic influence was heavier and of a much longer duration. The same difference also exists between Catalan and Valencian and in some cases, between Galician and Portuguese.\n\nThe Arabic influence can be seen in hundreds of toponyms but with a few minor exceptions, its influence on Spanish is primarily lexical. It is estimated that there are over two thousand Arabic loanwords and three thousand derivatives in the Spanish dictionary, making it 8% of the Spanish language. In the Middle Ages, Spanish was the main route by which Arabic words entered other West European languages. The majority of these words are nouns, with a more limited number of verbs, adjectives, adverbs and one preposition. Everyday Arabic loanwords include \"rincón\" (corner, from \"rukkan\"), \"aceite\" (oil, from \"az-zayt\"), and \"alcalde\" (mayor, from \"al-qādī\"), \"ahorrar\" (to save, from \"hurr\"), tarea (task, from \"tariha\") and \"hasta\" (until, from \"hatta\").\n\nFollowing the adoption of Islam c. 950 by the Kara-Khanid Khanate and the Seljuq Turks, regarded as the cultural ancestors of the Ottomans, the administrative and literary languages of these states acquired a large collection of loanwords from Arabic (usually by way of Persian), as well as non-Arabic Persian words: a leading example of a Perso-Arabic influenced Turkic language was Chagatai, which remained the literary language of Central Asia until Soviet times. During the course of over six hundred years of the Ottoman Empire (c. 1299–1922), the literary and official language of the empire was a mixture of Turkish, Persian and Arabic, which differed considerably from the everyday spoken Turkish of the time, and is termed Ottoman Turkish.\n\nAfter the foundation of the Republic of Turkey, and following the script reform, the Turkish Language Association (TDK) was established under the patronage of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk in 1932, with the aim of conducting research on Turkish. One of the tasks of the newly established association was to initiate a language reform to replace loanwords of Arabic and Persian origin with Turkish equivalents. By banning the usage of replaced loanwords in the press, the association succeeded in removing several hundred foreign words from the language, thus diminishing but by no means erasing the Arabic influence on Turkish.\n\nArabic has notably influenced the Valencian variety of the Catalan language spoken in Spain south of Catalonia, more than Catalonia itself although it also left influences in Catalan. Due to more than 8 centuries of Arabic dominion in the Iberian Peninsula (Al-Andalus), hundreds of words from many fields (including Arabic inventions) have been adapted into Catalan; among many are \"séquia\" (\"irrigation ditch\"), \"nòria\" (\"whaterwheel, noria\"), \"algorfa\" (\"loft\"), \"magatzem\" (\"warehouse\"), \"alfàbia\" (\"earthenware jar\"), \"barnús\" (\"bathrobe\"), \"aladroc\" (\"anchovy\"), \"dacsa\" (\"corn\"), \"safanòria\" (\"carrot\"), \"carxofa\" (\"artichoke\"), \"albergínia\" (\"aubergine\"), \"xirivia\" (\"parsnip\"), \"alfals\" (\"alfalfa\"), \"albercoc\" (\"apricot\"), \"tramús\" (\"lupin\"), \"corfa\" (\"bark, peel\"), \"xara\" (\"thicket\"), \"matalaf/matalàs\" (\"mattress\"), \"alacrà\" (\"scorpion\"), \"fardatxo\" (\"lizard\") \"alfàb(r)ega\" (\"basil\"), etc. and expressions such as \"a la babalà\" (\"randomly, to God's will\") and \"a betzef\" (\"abundance, plenty\").\n\nMost places of the Land of Valencia have retained their name in Arabic, such as Alicante/Alacant, Alzira, Almassora, etc. Also, a great number of places have the Arabic roots \"Beni\", \"Bena\" and \"Bene\", which mean \"son of\" or \"sons of\":\n\n"}
{"id": "28870062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28870062", "title": "James D. Boys", "text": "James D. Boys\n\nJames D. Boys (born 7 December 1970 in Royal Leamington Spa, England) is a British academic and media consultant who focuses on aspects of American history and political life in the late twentieth century. Born in Warwickshire, he read American Studies, History and Politics for his Honours Degree at the University of Northampton. He holds a master's degree from the University of London’s Institute of United States Studies gained under the guidance of Robert McGeehan. He completed his PhD in the Evolution and Execution of US Foreign Policy in the 1990s at the University of Birmingham under the tutelage of Scott Lucas, author of \"Freedom’s War\". He is an associate professor of international political studies and at Richmond, The American International University in London, where he also serves as director of the International Relations Postgraduate Degree Program. He is a senior research fellow at the Global Policy Institute in London.\n\n\nBoys is working on a variety of projects, including an examination of the foreign policy of the Clinton Administration (1997–2001). He is developing material on the life of Robert S. McNamara and on the struggle against political violence throughout the twentieth century. His work on the subject of rendition appeared in the May 2011 edition of The International Journal of Human Rights.\n\nFollowing his 1995 meeting with President Bill Clinton, James D. Boys researched the first term of Clinton’s administration in an effort to explain the evolution and execution of American foreign policy during that period. His research brought him into contact with leading members of the administration, including Robert Reich (US Labour Secretary), Sidney Blumenthal (Assistant to the President), Al Gore (Vice President), Tony Lake (National Security Advisor), Nancy Soderberg (Ambassador to the UN) and Morton Halperin (Director of the Policy Planning Staff).\n\nIn 2010, Boys was invited by Gregory S. Gordon to be a visiting fellow of the Centre for Human Rights and Genocide Studies of the University of North Dakota. Boys visited the university in May 2010, and initiated research into a series of papers for delivery in October 2010. These focused on the execution of foreign policy under the Clinton Administration in relation to Rwanda and Terrorism, and on the broader question of the role of human rights in the international arena.\n\nBoys has written on a variety of subjects and has been published repeatedly on the Nth Position and the 49th Parallel. Boys is openly supportive of the Special Relationship between Great Britain and the United States, and is eager to put an end to concepts of Anti-Americanism, which he sees as an expression of Anti-Administrationism.\n\nBoys has made over one hundred media appearances since December 2007, working with Sky News, the BBC and Al Jazeera English.\n\n"}
{"id": "30728989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30728989", "title": "Jean Barman", "text": "Jean Barman\n\nJean Barman is a historian of British Columbia. Born in Stephen, Minnesota, United States, Barman arrived in British Columbia in 1971. Her work \"The West Beyond the West: A History of British Columbia\" has been described as the \"standard text on the subject [of British Columbia history].\" She has received the Lieutenant Governor's Medal for historical writing, and the 2006 City of Vancouver Book Award (for \"Stanley Park's Secret\"). She is a professor emerita at the University of British Columbia, as is her husband, the historian of Brazil Roderick Barman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26156366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26156366", "title": "Jesús Sanoja Hernández", "text": "Jesús Sanoja Hernández\n\nJesús Sanoja Hernández (Tumeremo, Bolívar state 27 June 1930 - Caracas, 9 June 2007), was a Venezuelan journalist, historian and writer, who authored \"Entre golpes y revoluciones\" (2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "33241995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33241995", "title": "Johann Kaspar Mörikofer", "text": "Johann Kaspar Mörikofer\n\nJohann Kaspar Mörikofer (11 October 1799, in Frauenfeld – 17 October 1877, in Riesbach) was a Swiss literary and ecclesiastical historian.\n\nHe studied theology at the Carolinum in Zürich, and from 1822 to 1851 was provisor and rector of city schools in Frauenfeld. From 1851 to 1869 he served as a pastor in Gottlieben. He obtained honorary doctorates at the universities of Zürich (PhD, 1872) and Basel (theology, 1876).\n\nHis historical works have scientific value and literary charm; they include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1573420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1573420", "title": "Josefov", "text": "Josefov\n\nJosefov (also Jewish Quarter; ) is a town quarter and the smallest cadastral area of Prague, Czech Republic, formerly the Jewish ghetto of the town. It is completely surrounded by the Old Town. The quarter is often represented by the flag of Prague's Jewish community, a yellow Magen David (Star of David) on a red field.\n\nJews are believed to have settled in Prague as early as the 10th century. The first pogrom was in 1096 (the first crusade) and eventually they were concentrated within a walled Ghetto. In 1262, Přemysl Otakar II issued a \"Statuta Judaeorum\" which granted the community a degree of self-administration. In 1389, one of the worst pogroms saw some 1,500 massacred at Easter Sunday. The ghetto was most prosperous towards the end of the 16th century when the Jewish Mayor, Mordecai Maisel, became the Minister of Finance and a very wealthy man. His money helped develop the ghetto. \n\nIn 1850, the quarter was renamed \"Josefstadt\" (Joseph's City) after Joseph II, Holy Roman Emperor who emancipated Jews with the Toleration Edict in 1781. Two years before Jews were allowed to settle outside of the city, so the share of the Jewish population in Josefov decreased, while only orthodox and poor Jews remained living there.\n\nMost of the quarter was demolished between 1893 and 1913 as part of an initiative to model the city on Paris. What was left were only six synagogues, the old cemetery, and the Old Jewish Town Hall (now all part of the Jewish Museum in Prague and described below).\n\nCurrently Josefov is overbuilt with buildings from the beginning of the 20th century, so it is difficult to appreciate exactly what the old quarter was like when it was reputed to have over 18,000 inhabitants. Medieval Josefov is depicted in the 1920 film \"\", composed of cramped, angular, squinted buildings, but this impression is used purely to convey the expressionist nature of the film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16982993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16982993", "title": "Joseph S. Fruton", "text": "Joseph S. Fruton\n\nJoseph Stewart Fruton (May 14, 1912 – July 29, 2007), born Joseph Fruchtgarten, was a Jewish Polish-American biochemist and historian of science. His most significant scientific work involved synthetic peptides and their interactions with proteases; with his wife Sofia Simmonds he also published an influential textbook, \"General Biochemistry\" (1953; 1958). From 1970 until his death, Fruton worked extensively on the history of science, particularly the history of biochemistry and molecular biology.\n\nJoseph Fruchtgarten was born in Częstochowa, Poland; his father Shama Nuta (Charles) Fruchtgarten was a grain merchant, and his mother Ella (Aisenstadt) Fruchtgarten was a French teacher. Like many other Polish Jews, the Fruchtgartens immigrated to the United States shortly before the outbreak of World War I. They lived in New York City from 1913 to 1917, and in April 1917 they moved to Minsk (then occupied by the Red Army in the midst of the Russian Civil War). Between 1917 and 1923, Fruchtgarten attended school intermittently, moving from Minsk to Siedlce to Warsaw to Berlin, and learning French, German and Latin (in addition to Polish and English). In 1923, the Fruchtgartens returned to New York and changed their name to \"Fruton\" to avoid being targets of anti-Semitism. Joseph Fruton followed his father in rejecting religion, but learned early on \"not to advertise either [his] Jewishness or [his] atheism.\"\n\nAfter a few months at De Witt Clinton High School, Fruton joined the first class of students at James Madison High School. He graduated \"summa cum laude\" in 1927, excelling particularly in chemistry. He applied to Columbia University, and after an initial rejection—possibly because he was only 15 at the time, possibly because the school had already admitted the quota of New York Jews—his mother convinced an admissions official to reverse the decision. Inspired by the character Max Gottlieb from the Sinclair Lewis novel Arrowsmith, Fruton planned his Columbia education around becoming a scientist. The lectures and lab-work of organic chemist John M. Nelson turned Fruton on to biochemistry. He received his degree in chemistry in 1931, and entered graduate school in the Department of Biological Chemistry in the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons, working under Hans Thacher Clarke. Fruton's PhD work focused on \"the lability of cystine in alkali\", although he developed a broad interest in the range of biochemistry-related research being pursued at the College of Physicians and Surgeons.\n\nDuring graduate school Fruton also became active politically, opposing fascism, militarism and anti-Semitism. In 1933 he met Sophia \"Topsy\" Simmonds, whom he married in 1936. Upon completing his PhD in May 1934, Fruton became a research assistant to Max Bergmann at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research.\n\nFruton was a researcher at the Rockefeller Institute from 1934 to 1945, part of Max Bergmann's long-term and very successful research program in protein chemistry. In his earliest work there, Fruton tested the stereochemical specificity of dipeptidase. Under the tutelage of fellow Bergmann lab researcher Leonidas Zervas, a pioneer in peptide synthesis, Fruton synthesized stereospecific dipeptides and other small peptides as enzyme substrates. Fruton and his colleagues found significant instances of specificity in a range of proteases—observations that were relevant to the ongoing theoretical discussions of protein structure. His most significant discovery at the Rockefeller Institute was a synthetic peptide substrate for pepsin, contrary to the common idea that pepsin would not act on short synthetic peptides. As a side project, he also worked on applications of Bergmann and Zervas's carbobenzoxy method of peptide synthesis and some of the associated side reactions.\n\nBetween December 1941 and the end of World War II, research in Bergmann's lab shifted from basic protein chemistry to war-related research under the National Defense Research Committee, part of the Office of Scientific Research and Development. Fruton studied the chemistry of nitrogen mustards. In 1943, Fruton won the American Chemical Society's Eli Lilly Award.\n\nIn 1945, after Max Bergmann's death, Fruton joined the Yale University Department of Physiological Chemistry (part of the medical school) —headed then by C. N. Hugh Long—where he taught biological chemistry to medical students. Fruton joined a growing science faculty, which included the editor of the \"Journal of Biological Chemistry\", Rudolph Anderson; biochemist Edward Tatum also came to Yale at the same time. In addition to research and teaching at Yale, in 1948 Fruton visited the laboratories of several eminent biochemists: Kaj Linderstrøm-Lang's chemistry department at the Carlsberg Laboratory; Hugo Theorell's lab in Stockholm; and Alexander Todd's lab at Cambridge University. At the end of his five-year appointment as assistant professor, Fruton was promoted to full professor received a joint appointment in the Chemistry department—at the time, the only Jewish full professor in the medical school. By 1952, he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences, and that year he also became chairman of the Department of Physiological Chemistry (which was renamed Biochemistry, reflecting the shift in research focus from medical to general biological problems).\n\nMost of Fruton's early research at Yale was funded by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation; Warren Weaver was making enzymology one of the Foundation's research focuses. Fruton headed a growing lab that included doctoral students, postdoctoral researchers, and technical assistants. The two main areas of research were the action of proteolytic enzymes and the chemical (as opposed to biological) synthesis of peptides (the substrates used to explore the enzymatic reactions). Members of Fruton's lab studied cathepsin C and several other peptidases, as well as proteinases that catalyzed transpeptidation, which was thought (and ultimately confirmed) to be part of the biosynthesis of proteins. Rather than leading a team effort focused on a small number of high-priority problems, Fruton allowed members of his laboratory to choose their own problems (usually within the broad bounds of protein synthesis and proteinases). Ph.D. students and postdoctoral researchers who worked in Fruton's lab include: Mary Ellen Jones, Melvin Fried, Hannelore Würz, Peter Heinrich, Karen Nilsson, Bob Metrione, Yoshihiro Okuda, George Taborsky, Christine Zioudrou, Maxine Singer, Louis Cohen, Frederick Newth, John Thanassi, Charles Drey, Derek George Smyth, Atsuo Nagamatsu, and Milton Winitz. A number of prominent biochemists from outside Yale also spent time in Fruton's biochemistry department during his tenure as chair, including: Harry Kroll, Rosabelle McManus, John Clark Lewis, Herbert Gutfreund, Max Gruber, Frank Hird, Vernon Ingram, Hans Kornberg, Dimitrios Theodoropoulos, and Hans Tuppy.\n\nIn 1953, Fruton and Simmonds completed the textbook \"General Biochemistry\", which became one of the most influential textbooks for a generation of biochemistry students. They produced a second edition in 1958.\n\nIn 1959, after offering advice to Yale president A. Whitney Griswold on strengthening the sciences at Yale, Fruton became Director of the Division of Science, a position he held until 1962. His work led to the creation of the short-lived Department of Molecular Biology and Biophysics (MBB), although his initial proposal to create a similar department that combined the existing biophysics and biochemistry departments was rejected. Fruton became burnt out on Yale politics after an extended conflict with provost Kingman Brewster, in which Brewster attempted to bypass Fruton's science advisory committee and create a molecular biology department independent of biochemistry department; the MBB department was created only after Brewster had failed to attract a prominent scientist from outside Yale to head a molecular biology department, and the Department of Biochemistry remained separate as part of the medical school until the creation of the Department of Molecular Biophysics & Biochemistry (MB&B) in 1969 (which was itself created after a lengthy and unsuccessful attempt to find a suitably eminent replacement for Fruton to head the Department of Biochemistry).\n\nFruton and Sophia Simmonds traveled abroad during the 1962–1963 academic year, returning just as the MBB department was being created and the Department of Biochemistry was entering a \"crisis\" because of the loss of experienced faculty (in particular, Fred Richards, the new head of MBB, and Ernie Pollard, who had left to head a biophysics department at Penn State).\n\nFruton died two days after his wife in New Haven on 29 July 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "526014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=526014", "title": "Joseph d'Haussonville", "text": "Joseph d'Haussonville\n\nJoseph Othenin Bernard de Cléron, comte d'Haussonville (27 May 1809 – 28 May 1884), was a French politician and historian.\n\nHe was born in Paris. His grandfather had been \"grand louvetier\" of France; his father was Charles Louis Bernard de Cléron, comte d'Haussonville Comte Joseph had filled a series of diplomatic appointments at Brussels, Turin and Naples before he entered the chamber of deputies in 1842 for Provins. Under the Second Empire, he published a liberal anti-imperial paper at Brussels, \"Le Bulletin français\", and in 1863 he actively supported the candidature of Prévost Paradol.\nHe was elected to the Académie française in 1869, in recognition of his historical writings, \"Histoire de la politique extérieure du gouvernement français de 1830 à 1848\" (2 vols., 1850), \"Histoire de la réunion de la Lorraine à la France\" (5 vols., 1854-1859), \"L'église romaine et le premier empire\" 1800-1814 (5 vols., 1864-1879). In 1870 he published a pamphlet directed against the Prussian treatment of France, \"La France et la Prusse devant l'Europe\", the sale of which was prohibited in Belgium at the request of King Wilhelm of Prussia.\n\nHe was the president of an association formed to provide new homes in Algeria for the inhabitants of Alsace-Lorraine who elected to retain their French nationality. In 1878 he was made a life-senator, in which capacity he allied himself with the Right Centre in defence of the religious associations against the anti-clericals. He died in Paris on 28 May 1884.\n\nHis wife Louise (1818-1882), a daughter of Duc Victor de Broglie, published in 1858 a novel \"Robert Emuret\", followed by \"Marguerite de Valois reine de Navarre\" (1870), \"La Jeunesse de Lord Byron\" (1872), and \"Les Dernières Années de Lord Byron\" (1874). His son, Gabriel-Paul-Othenin, was also a politician and historian.\n"}
{"id": "3037170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3037170", "title": "Koh Se-kai", "text": "Koh Se-kai\n\nKoh Se-kai (; born 1934 in Changhua County) is a Taiwanese historian, politician, and diplomat. He is an important leader of the Taiwan independence movement. In 2004, Koh was appointed to be the Republic of China’s top representative to Japan. By June 2008, Koh had retired.\n"}
{"id": "56061584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56061584", "title": "List of Googie architecture structures (Canada)", "text": "List of Googie architecture structures (Canada)\n\nThis is a list of Googie architecture structures in Canada which includes a photographic gallery with a brief description of some of the structures which still remain. Googie was an original architectural style which began in Southern California during the late 1940s. Influenced by the coming of the Space age, the Googie-themed architecture popularity was most notable during the mid-1960s, among motels, coffee houses and gas stations. The term \"Googie\" comes from a now defunct coffee shop and cafe built in West Hollywood designed by John Lautner.\n\nThe following are images of some of the Googie architecture structures remaining in Canada.\nGoogie architecture structures in Canada\n\n"}
{"id": "35756538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35756538", "title": "List of extraterrestrial memorials", "text": "List of extraterrestrial memorials\n\nList of extraterrestrial memorials is a list of different types of memorials that are not on Earth.\n\nSeveral landing sites have been named, either the spacecraft itself or the landing site:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46440283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46440283", "title": "Ljubomir Jovanović", "text": "Ljubomir Jovanović\n\nLjubomir Jovanović (, 14 February 1865 – 2 October 1928) was a Serbian politician and historian. He was a professor at the University of Belgrade since its establishment in 1905, a member of the SKU, Minister of Education, Minister of Internal Affairs and member of the State Council.\n\nJovanović was born in Kotor, Austria-Hungary (present-day Montenegro). He finished primary and secondary school in Kotor. He was educated at the Belgrade Higher School, during which he left to participate in the uprising in the Bay of Kotor. He graduated in History at the Faculty of Philosophy. From 1887 to 1901 he was a teacher at secondary schools.\nHe was a librarian and Director of the National Library, then professor at the Belgrade Higher School and University.\n"}
{"id": "40127489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40127489", "title": "Llanymynech Heritage Area", "text": "Llanymynech Heritage Area\n\nLlanymynech Heritage Area is an historic former lime kiln, quarry and industrial site near the village of Llanymynech, Shropshire in the Welsh Marches. The site is adjacent to the A483 road and close to the Montgomery Canal. It is about south of Oswestry on the English side of the border, and about north of the Powys town of Welshpool.\n\nThis is a nationally significant industrial heritage area, containing one of only three remaining Hoffmann kilns in the country.\nIt provides key insights into industrial archaeology, as it was a major centre of the lime industry until the early 20th century. It is not known when the lime industry started here, but it may date back to medieval times or possibly earlier. The first reference to the site is on a map from 1753. Evidence of early settlement locally includes a prehistoric hill fort on Llanmynech HIll, while Offa's Dyke runs close to the site on the western perimeter. The area also has a long history of industrial activity, including copper and lead mining dating back to at least the Roman period.\n\nPrior to the opening of the Montgomery Canal (then known as the Ellesmere Canal) in 1796, limestone quarrying was undertaken on the site on a relatively small scale, although lime kilns for lime burning appear to have been within the quarry from at least 1753. In 1806 a tramway and incline was constructed to transport limestone from the quarry to a new wharf on the canal. A second tramway was constructed to the east of the site sometime between 1807–1837 and this became the main transport route, remaining in use until the closure of the quarry in 1914.\n\nThe 1863 opening of the Llanfyllin branch line, part of Cambrian Railways, had a major impact on the quarry, enabling much faster transportation of limestone and opening up new potential markets. Additional track and sidings were built along with two draw kilns – located to the west of the Hoffman kiln. Designed for continuous operation and built after 1874, these two kilns were abandoned by 1900.\n\nThe Hoffman kiln was the last major development on the site and is believed to have been built around 1900, along with additional tramways and rail track. The kiln, which is exceptionally well preserved, measures around and has two tunnel vaults entered through 14 round-headed arches. The chimney, a local landmark, stands on a plinth and is around high.\n\nA restoration project ran from 2006–2009, with funding from both the Heritage Lottery Fund and English Heritage. Additional financial support also came from the Aggregates Levy Sustainability Fund and project partners, with the aim to conserve the site for visitors and educational purposes.\n\nAs part of the project, an archaeological investigation was carried out. Its main aim was to gather information about key features of the site – particularly the location of former tramways, ground surfaces and turntable track-beds.\n\nA local community project also received funding from the Heritage Lottery Fund, highlighting the importance of the area through initiatives including:\n\nSome artefacts discovered at the site in recent years are on display at Oswestry Town Museum. These range from tools and a quarryman's boot to a tramway sleeper, couplings and a pulley wheel.\n\nThis area contains a variety of short or long walks with routes leading passed lime kilns, woodland, canals, old railways, and grazed pastures. Along these routes are various information panels and sculptures to inform you about the area, some of these pathways are rough and so suitable footwear is recommended.\n\n"}
{"id": "3270711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3270711", "title": "Marcellinus Comes", "text": "Marcellinus Comes\n\nMarcellinus Comes (died c. 534) was a Latin chronicler of the Eastern Roman Empire. An Illyrian by birth, he spent most of his life at the court of Constantinople, which is the focus of his surviving work.\n\nOnly one work of his survives, a chronicle (\"Annales\"), which was a continuation of Eusebius's \"Ecclesiastical History\". It covers the period from 379 to 534, although an unknown writer added a continuation down to 566. Although his work is in Latin, it primarily describes the affairs of the East; indeed the writer says that he has \"followed only the Eastern Empire.\" Some information about Western Europe, drawn from Orosius's \"Historia adversus paganos\" and Gennadius' \"De viris illustribus\", is introduced insofar as it relates to Constantinople. The chronicle is filled with details and anecdotes about the city and the court. Marcellinus was uncompromisingly Orthodox and has little good to say about heretics in his work.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7177314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7177314", "title": "Miguel Venegas", "text": "Miguel Venegas\n\nMiguel Venegas (1680–1764) was a Jesuit administrator and historian. He is most known for his book \"Noticia de la California\", a standard geographical, historical, and ethnographic description of Baja California, Mexico—a region he never personally visited.\n\nMiguel Venegas was born in Puebla, New Spain. He received an academic degree prior to joining the Jesuit order, which he did in 1700 in Tepotzotlán. Five years later he was an ordained member and he taught philosophy and moral theology at the Colegio S. Pedro y S. Pablo de México. He suffered from health problems and bodily swellings, which obliged him to retire to the Jesuit ranch of Chicomocelo, where he devoted himself to writing and botany until his death in 1764.\n\nAs a historian, he was cautious in his investigations, critical in his selection of sources and concerned with discovering the truth. In his major work on California, he cited Georg Marcgraf and Willem Piso's \"Historia Naturalis Brasiliae\" (1648), an important compendium on flora and fauna in Brazil, which circulated widely in northern Europe and beyond.\n\nIn the mid-1730s, he was assigned the task of writing an account of Baja California. This seems to have been, at least in part, to counter the setback to the missionaries' efforts and reputation caused by the Pericú revolt on the southernmost part of the peninsula in 1734. The historian was given access to the missionaries' correspondence and reports, and he was able to exchange letters with them to acquire further information, which he did through the use of questionnaires.\n\nVenegas' 600-page manuscript, \"Empresas Apostólicas,\" was completed in 1739. It was sent to Spain, but it languished there rather than seeing publication because it was too detailed with regard to military matters. Another Jesuit historian, Andrés Marcos Burriel, extensively revised Venegas' manuscript in the 1750s, and it was finally published in 1757 as \"Noticia de la California\" in three volumes at Madrid. This work by Venegas and Burriel was subsequently translated into English (1759), Dutch (1761–1762), French (1766–1767), and German (1769–1770), and it became the standard source for information about the early Californias. The original manuscript version was published in a facsimile edition in 1979.\n\nVenegas was a prolific writer, also authoring biographical and theological treatises. Among his other works are a manual on how to administer the sacraments, which remained the official ritual for the Mexican branch of the Catholic church (1731), a biography of Juan María de Salvatierra (1754a, 1929) and another biography detailing the life of Juan Bautista Zappa (1754b). Many of these were edited extensively before publication due to Venegas' writing style, which was too lengthy for his fellow Jesuits.\n\n\nTranslations of \"Noticia de la California\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53552374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53552374", "title": "On Weights and Measures", "text": "On Weights and Measures\n\nOn Weights and Measures is a historical, lexical, metrological, and geographical treatise compiled in 392 CE in Constantia by Epiphanius of Salamis (c. 315–403). The greater part of the work is devoted to a discussion on ancient Greek and Roman weights and measures.\n\nThe composition was written at the request of a Persian priest, sent to Epiphanius by letter from the Roman emperor in Constantinople. Although five fragments of an early Greek version are known to exist, with one entitled περὶ μέτρων καὶ στάθμων (\"On Weights & Measures\"), added by a later hand, this Syriac version is the only complete copy that has survived. Partial translations in Armenian and Georgian are also known to exist. Its modern title belies its content, as the work also contains important historical anecdotes about people and places not written about elsewhere.\n\nTwo manuscripts of \"On Weights and Measures\", written in Syriac on parchment, are preserved at the British Museum in London. The older was found in Egypt and, according to the colophon, was written in the Seleucid era, in \"nine-hundred and sixty-[...]\" (with the last digit effaced, meaning, that it was written between the years 649 CE–659 CE). The younger manuscript is designated \"Or. Add. 14620\".\n\nThe first to attempt a modern publication of Epiphanius' work was Paul de Lagarde in 1880, who reconstructed the original Syriac text by exchanging it with Hebrew characters, and who had earlier published excerpts from several of the Greek fragments treating on weights and measures in his \"Symmicta\". In 1973, a critical edition of the Greek text was published by E.D. Moutsoulas in \"Theologia\". \n\nIn folios [54b–55c], Hadrian's journey and arrival in the East is dated \"47 years after the destruction of Jerusalem.\"\nIn folios [47a–49a]; [51d–52a]; [56d–57b] Epiphanius names four major translations of the Hebrew Bible, made in the Greek tongue: the LXX made by the seventy-two translators, another by Aquila of Pontus, one by Theodotion, and yet another by Symmachus. A fifth Greek translation was discovered in wine jars in Jericho, and a sixth in Nicopolis near Actium. Afterwards, Origen arranged six columns of the extant Greek translations and two of the Hebrew side by side, naming it the Hexapla. Epiphanius expands his description of the translation of the seventy-two translators (known as the Septuagint) and how they were assigned thirty-six cells, two to each cell, on the Pharian island. Two translators translated the Book of Genesis, another two the Book of Exodus, another two the Book of Leviticus, and so forth, until the entire 22 canonical books of the Hebrew Bible had all been translated into the Greek tongue. The seventy-two translators were drawn from the twelve tribes of Israel, six men to each tribe who were skilled in the Greek language.\nIn folios [49a–50a] Epiphanius gives a description of the canonical books of the Hebrew Bible and translations made of the same. In his day, he notes that the Scroll of Ruth and the Book of Judges were joined together, and considered as one book. So, too, the Books of Ezra and Nehemiah were joined, and considered as one book, as were First and Second Chronicles (\"Paraleipomena\") considered as one book, as were the First and Second Samuel (\"Book of First and Second Kingdoms\") considered as one book, and the First and Second Kings (\"Book of Third and Fourth Kingdoms\") considered as one book.\nIn spite of Epiphanius' interest in Jewish themes, his narrative often takes on a distorted and stereotypical view of Judaism, based on the dogmas of his persuasion. Still, he is an invaluable source on the lives of people and places that figure highly in Jewish lore. In folios [54a–55c]; [55c–55d] Epiphanius treats on the lives of two prominent persons who became proselytes to the Jewish religion; the one Aquila (known also as Onkelos) who was a relation of Hadrian, and whom he made the overseer of Jerusalem's rebuilding around 115 CE. The other person of interest who is described by him is Symmachus, also known as \"Sūmkos\" () in rabbinic literature. Symmachus is mentioned as belonging originally to the Samaritan nation, and is said to have converted to Judaism during the reign of Verus. He subsequently underwent a second circumcision and became a disciple of Rabbi Meir. Symmachus belonged to the fifth generation (165–200 CE) of Rabbinical teachers referred to in the text of the Mishnah. The Emperor Hadrian is said to have passed through Palestine while \"en route\" to Egypt, some 47 years after the destruction of Jerusalem.\nFolios [61d–73b] contain a treatise on the known weights and measures used in his day among the Hebrews, the Greeks and the Romans. He states the equivalent weights for the \"kab\" (\"cab\"), \"kor\", the \"lethekh\" (Lethek), \"homer\", \"bath\", \"modius\" (Hebrew: \"seah\" = lit. \"measure\"), and \"mina\" (Hebrew: \"maneh\"), among others. In folios [62b–62c] Epiphanius distinguishes between \"a handful\" () in I Kings 17:12 and \"a handful\" () in Exodus 9:8 and Leviticus 16:12; in the former case it refers to only one handful, but in latter cases it refers to \"a measure of two handfuls.\"\nIn folios [73b–75a] Epiphanius gives the names of several cities and places of renown, both in his time and in ancient times, such as: Mount Ararat (§ 61), Aṭaṭ (§ 62), or what is known as the \"threshing floor of the thorn bush\" (), and whose description echoes that of Rashi's commentary on Genesis 50:10, Abarim (§ 63); Aviʿazar (§ 68), or what is \"Eḇen haʿezer\" of I Samuel 4:1, said to be \"fourteen [Roman] miles distant east and north of Eleutheropolis, in a valley\"; Carmel(§ 77); Carmel of the sea (§ 78); Akko (§ 76); Anathoth (§ 66); Azekah (§ 64) - a city in whose time was called Ḥwarta; Bethel (§ 73); Ophrah (§ 67); Carthage (§ 79) - where the Canaanites had migrated from Phoenicia and who were called in his day \"Bizakanoi\" (scattered people); Rekem (§ 71), Jaffa (§ 75), Jerusalem(§ 74), \"et al.\"\n\n\n\nThe regnal years of the Caesars as stated by Epiphanius differ slightly in some places from the extant Greek versions. With respect to events in Rome after the reign of Pertinax, both Epiphanius and Jerome do not mention the ascension of Didius Julianus after the assassination of Pertinax, but write only that Severus succeeded him. This may have been because they did not consider his 9-week reign, which he obtained through usurpation, to be legitimate. Similarly, Epiphanius does not mention the ascension of Aemilian. It can be adduced from Jerome's \"Chronicon\" that Aemilian, who \"caused a revolt in Moesia,\" was never officially confirmed by the Senate in Rome. Epiphanius' method of recording the regnal years from Augustus to Hadrian, with his pinpoint recollection of the number of months and days to each reign, can be said to be accurate, based on Josephus' own testimony about himself, saying that he was aged 56 in the 13th year of the reign of Caesar Domitian, and that he (Josephus) was born in the 1st year of Caesar Gaius. Using Epiphanius' chronology, the years are indeed collected as 56. By comparison, the span of years in Suetonius' \"De vita Caesarum\" (Lives of the Caesars), which gives 14 years for Claudius and 15 years for Nero, the same time frame would span a period of some 58 years!\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17688775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17688775", "title": "Paolo Buzzi", "text": "Paolo Buzzi\n\nPaolo Buzzi (15 February 1874, Milan – 18 February 1956) was an Italian futurist playwright and poet.\n\nBuzzi studied law in Pavia, and at the same time attended lectures in literature. In 1891, he won the milanese \"Concorso di Poesia\" award. In 1898 with \"Rapsodie leopardiane\" his poetry career begun in ernest. In 1905 he won the title of \"Best Italian Language Poet\" in a competition in the literary magazine \"Poesia\", founded by Marinetti and Sem Benelli. He started thus to write for \"Poesia\", and became a noted futurist, experimenting with poetical and theatrical form. He also tried filming. In later years he left the futurist work ethos and worked with traditional forms of poetry.\n\n"}
{"id": "55480343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55480343", "title": "Pataphysical calendar", "text": "Pataphysical calendar\n\nThe pataphysical calendar is a calendar that is inspired by Alfred Jarry, the creator of the 'pataphysics and the author of Ubu Roi.\n\nThe first version of the calendar was published in \"L'Almanach du Père Ubu\" in 1889. The second version was released in 1901 in the \"L'Almanach illustré du Père Ubu\". The calendar started to get used in the Collège de 'Pataphysique in 1948, after the death of Jarry.\n\nThe calendar has 13 months with each 29 days. The 29th day however, is not used, except for \"29 Gidouille\" (as an exception) and \"29 Gueule\" in a leap year. The months always start on a Sunday, so that every month has a Friday the 13th. The names of the days are equal to the general calendar (the French names are mostly used), except for the 29th (the imaginary day), which name is \"Hunyadi\". 29 Gueule is called \"Hunyadi gras\" (fat hunyadi).\n\nTo make it not that hard for the reader, one places the vulgar (standard) date after the date.\n\nThe year has the following months:\n\nThe names are inspired by the exceptional terminology and neologisms in the work of Jarry. In his play, he wrote \"merdre \"instead of \"merde\", which literally means poop - \"oneille\" instead of \"oreille\", which means ear.\n\nThe calendar era starts on 1 Absolu 1 EP (= Ère 'Pataphysique), the birth day of Alfred Jarry (September 8, 1873).\n\nThe calendar has its own saints, like \"the holy Guillotine, medic\" (13 Décervelage = January 10), \"the holy \"Hieronymus Bosch (17 Clinamen = April 8) and \"the Childbirth of the holy \"Johanna Pausin (1 Merdre = May 18)\n\n"}
{"id": "13859989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13859989", "title": "Peter Davies (economic historian)", "text": "Peter Davies (economic historian)\n\nPeter N. Davies (born 14 July 1927) is a British economic historian with interests in the port of Liverpool, sea-based trade with West Africa, the Canary Islands and Japan, the international fruit trade and the military history of the River Kwai campaign in World War II. He is now an Emeritus Professor in the School of History at the University of Liverpool, England.\n\nDavies is the author of several books including, \"The Trade Makers, Elder Dempster in West Africa\" (Allen and Unwin, 1973), \"Trading in West Africa\" (Croom Helm, 1976), \"Sir Alfred Jones: Shipping Entrepreneur par Excellence\" (Europa, 1978), \"Fyffes and the Banana, Musa Sapientum\" (Athlone Press, 1990), \"Japanese Shipping and Shipbuilding Industries: A History of Their Modern Growth\" (with T. Chida, Athlone Press, 1990), \"The Man Behind the Bridge: Colonel Toosey and the River Kwai\" (Athlone Press, 1991), and \"From Orchard to Market\" (with D.Hope-Mason, Lockwood Press, 2005).\n\nDuring a long career at the University of Liverpool, Davies has continued the tradition of commitment to Maritime History which had been initiated by Francis Hyde and maintained by John Harris (subsequently Professor of Economic History at the University of Birmingham) and Sheila Marriner. Taken together, Hyde, Harris, Marriner and Davies have become known as the \"Liverpool School of Maritime Historians\".\n\n\"The Business, Life and Letters of Frederick Cornes : Aspects of the Evolution of Commerce in Modern Japan, 1861-1912\" (Global Oriental: ) was published in September 2008. In this book Davies examines the surprisingly well-preserved papers of Frederick Cornes, a merchant from Cheshire, England who spent much of his life trading in Japan's port city of Yokohama during and after the Meiji Restoration, including the entire correspondence of \"Cornes and Company\" extending over a forty-year period in the early years of Anglo-Japanese trade.\n\nDavies's latest book, \"Across the Three Pagodas Pass: The Story of the Thai-Burma Railway\" (Renaissance Books: ), was published in August 2013. Davies acted as editor to Ewart Escritt's translation of the personal records of Japanese Railway Engineer Yoshihiko Futamatsu. Davies had come to know Futamatsu through his research for the 1991 biography of Philip Toosey \"The Man Behind the Bridge\" and secured his agreement that his memoirs could be published in English after his death. The book is therefore a rare account from the Japanese viewpoint of the construction of the Thai-Burma Railway (and the River Kwai Bridge) during World War II.\n"}
{"id": "570747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=570747", "title": "Pherecydes of Leros", "text": "Pherecydes of Leros\n\nPherecydes of Leros (; ; 450s BC) was a Greek mythographer and logographer. He came from the island of Leros. Pherecydes spent the greater part of his working life in Athens, and so he was also called Pherecydes of Athens (): the encyclopedic Byzantine \"Suda\" considers Pherecydes of Athens and of Leros separately.\n\nPherecydes of Leros should not be confused with Pherecydes of Syros, the mid-6th-century philosopher, who was sometimes mentioned as one of the Seven Sages of Greece and was reputed to have been the teacher of Pythagoras.\n\nPherecydes's great treatises—a history of his native isle, Leros (Περὶ Λέρου); an essay, \"On Iphigeneia\" (Περὶ Ἰφιγενείας); and \"On the Festivals of Dionysus\" (Περὶ τῶν Διονύσου ἑορτῶν)—are all lost. However, numerous fragments of his ten-book genealogies of the gods and heroes, which was written in the Ionian dialect to glorify the ancestors in the heroic age of his 5th-century patrons, have been preserved. Pherecydes modified the legends, not in order to rationalize them, but rather to adjust them to popular beliefs. Therefore, Pherecydes cannot be classed with the earlier mythographer Hecataeus of Miletus, whose \"Genealogiai\" (\"Genealogies\") were more skeptical and critical.\n\nPherecydes was the main source for the mythological encyclopedia, the \"Bibliotheke\" mistakenly connected with the name of Apollodorus of Athens.\n"}
{"id": "22479302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22479302", "title": "Robert Arns", "text": "Robert Arns\n\nRobert George Arns is an American physicist and historian of electrical history.\n\nArns was a professor at the University of Vermont. He has a Ph.D. from the University of Michigan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22474511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22474511", "title": "Ruda (deity)", "text": "Ruda (deity)\n\nRuda is a deity that was of paramount importance in the Arab pantheon of gods worshipped by the North Arabian tribes of pre-Islamic Arabia. The etymology of his name gives the meaning \"well disposed\" an indication of his function as a protective deity. The oldest reference to Ruda is found in the annals of Esarhaddon who ruled over the Assyrian empire from 681 to 669 BC. The name is transliterated into Latin script from the original Akkadian as \"Ru-ul-da-a-a-ú\" and he is mentioned among the gods of the Arabs. Known as Arsu among the Palmyrans, in a later Aramaic inscription, Arsu/Ruda is paired with the Syrian god Resheph, a protective deity for his worshippers from the 3rd millennium BC.\n\nDierk Lange writes that Ruda formed part of a trinity of gods worshipped by the Assyrian-attested Yumu´il confederation of northern Arabian tribes, which he identifies with the Ishmaelites. According to Lange, Ruda was the moon deity, Nuha the sun deity, and Atarsamain the main deity was associated with Venus. \n\nInscriptions in a North Arabian dialect found in the region of Najd refer to Ruda and other gods of the Arab pantheon, providing evidence of how all things good and bad were attributed to the agency of gods. Examples of such inscriptions referring to Ruda include, \"by Ruda are we\" and \"by Ruda is weeping\".\n\nA trinity of gods representing the sun, moon and Venus is also found among the peoples of the South Arabian kingdoms of Awsan, Ma'in, Qataban and Hadramawt between the 9th and 4th centuries BC. There, the deity associated with Venus was Astarte, the sun deity was Yam, and moon deity was variously called Wadd, Amm and Sin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17386257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17386257", "title": "Sigebert IV", "text": "Sigebert IV\n\nSigebert IV (c. 671 - c. 679) was the son of Dagobert II and a Saxon duchess called Mathildis (also called Mechthilde), and the grandson of Sigebert III of the Merovingian dynasty. He is believed to have died either just before or after his father and other members of the royal family, who were killed on the orders of Ebroin, the Frankish Mayor of the Palace of Neustria.\n\nIn the 10th-century biography of Saint Arbogast, \"Vita Sancti Argobasti\", Sigebert is mentioned but not named as having died during a hunting accident and later miraculously raised from the dead by Arbogast, Bishop of Strasbourg and close friend of Dagobert II.\n\nAccording to the pseudohistorical \"Dossiers Secrets d'Henri Lobineau\" and related documents, Sigebert IV, on the assassination of his father Dagobert II, was rescued by his sister and smuggled to the domain of his mother the (otherwise unknown) Visigoth princess, Giselle de Razès in Rennes-le-Château. He is said to have arrived in the Languedoc in 681 and, at some point, adopted or inherited his uncle's titles, duke of Razès and count of Rhedae. He is also said to have adopted the surname, or nickname, of “Plant-Ard” (subsequently Plantard) from the French appellation ‘\"rejeton ardent\"’ ‘ardently flowering shoot’ of the Merovingian vine. Under this name, and under the titles acquired from his uncle, he is said to have perpetuated his lineage.\n\nJournalists and scholars who have debunked the Priory of Sion hoax argue that Pierre Plantard created the \"Dossiers Secrets d'Henri Lobineau\" and the fictitious biography of Sigebert IV to support his false claim that he was a descendant of the extinct Merovingian dynasty through this figure. In 1990, Plantard revised himself by claiming he was only descended from a cadet branch of the line of Dagobert II, while arguing that the direct descendant was really Otto von Habsburg, who, according to Plantard, was descended from Sigebert I (the son of Bera II and the grandson of Wamba), who married Magdala, the granddaughter of Dagobert II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32037005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32037005", "title": "Song of the hoe", "text": "Song of the hoe\n\nThe Song of the hoe or the Creation of the pickax is a Sumerian creation myth, written on clay tablets from the last century of the 3rd millennium BCE.\n\nSeven debate topics are known from the Sumerian literature, falling in the category of disputations; some examples are: The Debate between sheep and grain; The Debate between bird and fish; the Debate between Winter and Summer; and \"The Dispute between Silver and Copper\", etc. These topics came some centuries after writing was established in Sumerian Mesopotamia. The debates are philosophical and address humanity's place in the world. Some of the debates may be from 2100 BC. The song of the hoe stands alone in its own sub-category as a one-sided debate poem.\n\nThree tablets of the myth are held by the British Museum, numbers 80170, 132243 (unpublished) and 139993. Two tablets of the myth are held by the Louvre in Paris, number AO 7087 & AO 8898. One is held in the Vorderasiatisches Museum Berlin, number 17378 and three at the Yale Babylonian collection, numbers 5487, 7070 and 11941. Lines of the myth were discovered on the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, catalogue of the Babylonian section (CBS), from their excavations at the temple library at Nippur. Tablets from this collection, numbers 8111, 13122, 13382 and 13864 were documented by Edward Chiera in \"Sumerian Epics and Myths\". Samuel Noah Kramer included CBS tablets 8531, 10310, 10335, 29.16.23, 29.16.436. He also included translations from tablets in the Nippur collection of the Museum of the Ancient Orient in Istanbul, catalogue numbers 1117, 2337, 2473, 2742. Other tablets were added from the \"Ur excavations texts\" in 1928 along with several others to bring it to its present form, which is virtually complete. The latest composite text and translation was produced in 1996 by H. Behrens, B. Jagersma and Joachim Krecher.\n\nThe poem is composed of the frequent use of the word \"al\", which means hoe. The verb-forms and nouns also frequently start with, or contain the syllable \"al\" (or \"ar\"), suggesting the writer intended it for humour as a satirical school text or as a tongue-twister. The song starts with a creation myth where Enlil separates heaven and earth in Duranki, the cosmic Nippur or 'Garden of the Gods'.\n\nThe myth continues with a description of Enlil creating daylight with his hoe; he goes on to praise its construction and creation. Enlil's mighty hoe is said to be made of gold, with the blade made of lapis lazuli and fastened by cord. It is inlaid with lapis lazuli and adorned with silver and gold. Enlil makes civilized man, from a brick mould with his hoe – and the Annanuki start to praise him. Nisaba, Ninmena, and Nunamnir start organizing things. Enki praises the hoe; they start reproducing and Enlil makes numerous shining hoes, for everyone to begin work. Enlil then founds the Ekur with his hoe whilst a \"god-man\" called Lord Nudimmud builds the Abzu in Eridug. Various gods are then described establishing construction projects in other cities, such as Ninhursag in Kesh, and Inanna and Utu in Zabalam; Nisaba and E-ana also set about building. The useful construction and agricultural uses of the hoe are summarized, along with its capabilities for use as a weapon and for burying the dead. Allusions are made to the scenes of Enkidu's ghost, and Urshanabi's ferry over the Hubur, in the Epic of Gilgamesh:\n\nNinmena is suggested to create both the priestess and king. The hymn ends with extensive praisings of the hoe, Enlil, and Nisaba:\n\nModern society may have trouble comprehending the virtue of extolling a tool such as the lowly hoe, for the Sumerians the implement had brought agriculture, irrigation, drainage and the ability to build roads, canals and eventually the first proto-cities. One of the tablets from the Yale Babylonian Collection was published by J.J. Van Dijk which spoke of three cosmic realms; heaven, earth and kur in a time when darkness covered an arid land, when heaven and earth were joined and the Enlil's universal laws, the me did not function. Two of the major traditions of the Sumerian concept of the creation of man are discussed in the myth. The first is the creation of mankind from brick moulds or clay. This has notable similarities to the creation of man from the dust of the earth in the Book of Genesis in the Bible (). This activity has also been associated with creating clay figurines. The second Sumerian tradition which compares men to plants, made to \"break through the ground\", an allusion to imagery of the fertility or mother goddess and giving an image of man being \"planted\" in the ground. Wayne Horowitz notes that five Sumerian myths recount a creation scene with the separation of heaven and earth. He further notes the figurative imagery relaying the relationship between the creation of agricultural implements making a function for mankind and thereby its creation from the \"seed of the land\". The myth was called the \"Creation of the Pickax\" by Samuel Noah Kramer, a name by which it is referred in older sorurces. In Sumerian literature, the hoe or pickaxe is used not only in creation of the Ekur but also described as the tool of its destruction in lament hymns such as the Lament for Ur, where it is torn apart with a storm and then pickaxes.\n\nThe cosmological position of the hoe does not fit into Charles Long's categorization of cosmogenic myths. Creation has been suggested to have been the responsibility of different gods via different processes. Creation via a cosmological agricultural implement seems to occupy a unique place in the creation myth genre. The song was meant to be sung aloud with the repetition of the word hoe or \"al\" a total of forty five times in the text with common use of the two syllables together \"al\"/\"ar\". A cosmological link is suggested between the hoe's \"being\" and its \"doing\"; making everything prosper and flourish within a community. Gary Martin discusses the sociological benefits of singing songs to a hoe, to remind people that they wield the implement of Enlil and of creation. That they can participate in creativity and work well to preserve and improve society. He suggests that \"perhaps by praising the simple tool of an extremely important group of laborers, and imbuing it with cosmological significance, those wielders of the hoe are themselves brought into a grand cosmological drama.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29857942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29857942", "title": "Sulev Oll", "text": "Sulev Oll\n\nSulev Oll (born March 17, 1964) is an Estonian journalist, sports historian and poet. He has worked for \"Postimees\", a major Estonian newspaper. and is mentioned in the Estonian national biography. As a journalist and writer he is noted for his expertise in Estonian athletic history.\n\nOll was born in the small borough of Aseri in Lääne-Viru County. He graduated from Aseri high school in 1982. He excelled in chemistry, mathematics and history and sports. \nBetween 1982-1987 he studied history at Tartu State University, graduating in history and social studies with a thesis on the \"Athletes of the Republic of Estonia, the country challenge in the years 1920-1940\". He studied journalism at the University of Tartu in 1989-1993 with a thesis on \"Development of Thought and the farm reflected in the Estonian agricultural journalism from 1987-1993.\"\n\nOll has worked as a reporter and senior editor for \"Postimees\". He has published books and made contributions to books about Estonian athletics on the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens and the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin. In the late 2000s he has developed as a poet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1251237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1251237", "title": "Synoecism", "text": "Synoecism\n\nSynoecism or synecism ( ; , \"sunoikismos\", ), also spelled synoikism ( ), was originally the amalgamation of villages in Ancient Greece into \"poleis\", or city-states. Etymologically the word means \"dwelling together (\"syn\") in the same house (\"oikos\").\" Subsequently, any act of civic union between polities of any size was described by the word \"synoikismos\". The closest analogy today is the incorporation of a city; in fact, \"incorporation\" is often used to translate synoikismos, in addition to the Latinized synoecism. Synoecism is opposed to Greek dioecism (διοικισμóς, \"dioikismos\"), the creation of independent communities within the territory of a polis.\n\nSynoecism is the result of a few major factors, mainly an increase in population density of adjacent settlements, with an incorporation proposed for economic, political or ideological advantages, such as the synoecism of the communities of Attica into Athens, or by imposition of a ruling power, such as the synoecism of Messenia into the newly built city of Messene. \n\nA dioecism is essentially the inverse of a synoecism, the releasing of cities, towns or villages from their association with a polis. This process might manifest itself in several ways, such as the settling of new but independent communities within former territory of Constantinople on land abandoned due to a contraction of population, or the contraction of Thessaloniki out of its former neighborhoods outside the city walls due to the occupation of the countryside by the Turks. A conqueror might break up a polis for various reasons. As part of the settlement of the Third Sacred War in 346 BC, the Amphictyonic League was commissioned to destroy 21 or 22 cities of Phocis, many of which had already been burned. They chose the method of dioecism, returning the \"poleis\" to their constituent \"kōmai\", or villages. The city fortifications were then dismantled. This relatively mild destruction was reversed by Athens and Thebes several years later. They were sympathetic to Phocis but their hands had been legally tied. The cities were re-synoecized. The larger states assisted Phocis to rebuild the fortifications.\n\nAlthough there were differences between synoecism in ancient Greece and ancient Rome, the same general concept is deduced from the history of both civilizations. Before political union, the future (combined) population of the polity constituted smaller settlements that were not obligated to each other, or at least not by the contract that was later to institute their political union. A settlement or group of settlements might be constituents of another polity from which they would be annexed or transferred.\n\nIn ancient Greece, society was divided into the \"demos\" (δῆμοι, κῶμαι; \"country people\" or \"country villages\") and the \"asty\" (ἄστυ) or \"polis\" (πόλις). The polis was the situs of the princely nobility, gentry, and aristocracy and the sacerdotal and martial families. The distinction between the \"demos\" and the \"polis\" was politically very important in these ancient states. There was much antagonism between the two bodies of the country and city. Where commerce and trade came to dominate culture and ideology, they encouraged men to live together in larger towns and develop democracies. In the city states of classical Greece, synoecism occurred when the \"demos\" combined with and subordinated, usually by force, the \"politiea\" in one polity.\n\nIn the \"poleis\", the \"synoikistes\" was the person who according to tradition executed the synoecism, either by charisma or outright conquest; he was subsequently worshiped as a demi-god. The most famous \"synoikistes\" was the mythic and legendary Theseus, who liberated Attica from Cretan hegemony and restored the independence of Greece under the leadership of Athens.\n\nIn ancient Athens, the villages of Attica combined with the polis of Athens; consequently the \"demos\" and \"polis\" became identical in Athens and the former word assumed preference to denote the whole polity. Popular government was first established in the wealthy and populous Greek cities in Ionia. From this history the word and concept of \"democracy\" is derived. This synoecism was one of the primary causes of the Kyklos in ancient Hellas.\n\nSynoecism also occurred in the history of Mantineia. In the fifth century, after its synoecism, it became a democracy; in the fourth century, it was again divided (\"dioikismos\") and an oligarchy formed. Later, more political upheaval caused another synoecism, thus instituting another democracy. This further occurred in the other Arcadian towns of Tegea and Heraia.\n\nAncient Greek states not democratically governed used the word \"polis\" in their public documents to signify sovereign power. The Doric states of Crete and Sparta preserved the polis separate from the demos. As late as the second century AD, Cretan towns continued to denote themselves with \"polis\". Sparta, however, deviating from this use of the word, denominated itself \"damos\" (δᾶμoς) in ancient laws, because it never thought of itself as a body opposed to the Perioeci.\n\nMüller states: \"In oligarchical states, as in Elis, the people in later times remained almost constantly in the country; and it frequently happened that grandfathers and grandchildren had never seen the town: there were also country courts of justice, and other regulations intended to make up for the advantages of a city life. Where the courts of justice were at a distance, and there was no inducement to mechanical industry and internal commerce (see the term banausos), the ancient habits of life continued much longer in existence.\"\n\nIn ancient Rome, some of the kinds of settlement that were incorporated by synoecism into greater municipal polities were the prefecture (\"praefectura\"), a non-autonomous village administered by a prefect; the \"oppidum\", a fortified, autonomous town; the \"castellum\", a small fortified place under or previously under martial jurisdiction; the \"forum\", being a marketplace; the \"conciliabulum\", being a meeting place; the \"vicus\", being a small, private settlement without government; the \"canabae\", being a settlement of dependents in the vicinity of a base; the \"pagus\", being a rural village; the \"gens\", being a tribal canton; the \"saltus\", being a settlement of \"coloni\" (farmers) on a large estate, part of which they leased from the \"conductor\" (manager); and the \"colonia\", being a settlement of colonists from Rome.\n\n\"Synoecism\" also denominates an ancient Cretan archaeological site on the western fringes of Troullos. Artifacts discovered at the site include a terracotta bull figurine, a bronze statuette, and Late Minoan I pottery.\n\n"}
{"id": "11813683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11813683", "title": "T. C. W. Blanning", "text": "T. C. W. Blanning\n\nTimothy Charles William Blanning, FBA (born 21 April 1942) is a historian and retired academic. Between 1992 and 2009, he was Professor of Modern European History at the University of Cambridge.\n\nTimothy Charles William Blanning was born on 21 April 1942. After attending the King's School in Bruton, he went up to Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge, graduating with a Bachelor of Arts degree and then continuing to complete his doctorate there; his PhD was awarded in 1967. In 1965, he was elected to a research fellowship at Sidney Sussex, and in 1968 was elected to a fellowship there. In the meantime, he was appointed to an assistant lectureship at the University of Cambridge in 1972, being promoted to lecturer four years later. He was promoted again to be Reader in Modern European History in 1987, and was appointed Professor of Modern European History in 1992. He retired in 2009, but remains at Cambridge as an emeritus professor.\n\nBlanning's first book, \"Reform and Revolution in Mainz, 1743–1803\" (1974), offered a case study which could examine the German Problem, the idea that modern Germany began moving apart from Western Europe in political and cultural terms; Blanning sought to demonstrate that this process began in the eighteenth century, whereas earlier historians had emphasised the nineteenth century as a more important period. His second book, \"The French Revolution in Germany: Occupation and Resistance in the Rhineland, 1792–1802\", was published in 1983, and the French Revolution was also the subject of Blanning's \"The Origins of the French Revolutionary Wars\" (1986), \"The French Revolution: Aristocrats versus Bourgeois?\" (1987; a second edition was published in 1998 as \"The French Revolution: Class War or Culture Clash?\") and \"The French Revolutionary Wars\" (1996). In the meantime, he turned to the Habsburg monarchy and produced a biography of the Holy Roman Emperor Joseph II in 1994; he has also published biographies of George I (2017) and Frederick the Great of Prussia (2015), the latter of which won the British Academy Medal in 2016. \n\nSince the early 2000s, Blanning's work has also focused on cultural histories of Europe, beginning in 2002 with his book \"The Culture of Power and the Power of Culture\"; this was followed by \"The Pursuit of Glory: Europe 1648–1815\" (2006), \"The Triumph of Music: Composers, Musicians and Audiences, 1700 to the Present\" (2008) and \"The Romantic Revolution\" (2011).\n\nIn 1990, Blanning was elected a Fellow of the British Academy (FBA). In September 2016, he was awarded the British Academy Medal for his book \"\" (2015). Blanning was awarded a Doctor of Letters degree by the University of Cambridge in 1998.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22053240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22053240", "title": "The State Museum of the State Cultural Center of Turkmenistan", "text": "The State Museum of the State Cultural Center of Turkmenistan\n\nThe State Museum of Turkmenistan (Turkmen: Türkmenistanyň Döwlet Muzeýi), also known as the Saparmurat Turkmenbashi Museum, is a museum in Turkmenistan.\n\nThe museum was opened on 12 November 1998.\n. The museum has seven permanent galleries incorporating history, present day culture, and ethnography.\n\nAs of 2013, the museum was split into three sections: natural history, science, and the President of Turkmenistan. Photography is forbidden in any part of the museum, and all visitors are followed by a museum employee during their stay. Many artifacts and photographs are clear fakes or digitally edited.\n\nThe museum contains a large collection of ancient artifacts. However many are overly intricate, in pristine condition, and many thousand years old leading to questions about their authenticity.\n\nThe museum has one third of its floor space dedicated to the current President of Turkmenistan. In this section are images of the president doing a wide variety of things, including harvesting crops with his citizens, racing autos, reading with children, playing sports, and meeting world leaders.\nThe section of the museum dedicated to science has no English captions, even though the rest of the museum does.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45038676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45038676", "title": "Thomas Ammer", "text": "Thomas Ammer\n\nThomas Ammer (born 19 July 1937 in Eisenberg) is a German historian who as a young man studied to become a physician.\n\nAnti-government political activism in East Germany led to his arrest and imprisonment in 1958, and he never qualified as a medical doctor. His 15-year prison sentence was cut short in August 1964 when his release by the West German government, and at the age of 27 he relocated to the German Federal Republic.\n\nThomas Ammer was born in a small town in Thuringia in what was then central southern Germany. His parents owned a craft-based business devoted to the production of historical key-board instruments. Ammer's father became associated with Communist opposition groups in 1943, and after 1945 when the ban on it was lifted, joined the German Communist Party; but he died in January 1946 when Thomas was not yet nine years old.\n\n</div></div>\n\nIn 1953 Thomas Ammer and his school fellows including Reinhard Spalke, Günter Schwarz, Ludwig and Wilhelm Ziehr along with Johann Frömel formed a political group which later came to be known in the western media as the . The background was the violent military suppression in June 1953 of the strikes and street protests convulsing the German Democratic Republic. The group made it their business to highlight examples of politically arbitrary or despotic actions by the authorities. They prepared leaflets and decorated walls and trucks with slogans, anti-government messages and \"modified\" versions of the logo used by the country's ruling SED (party). Ammer was part of the leadership of the group.\n\nIn 1955 Ammer passed the exams that marked the end of his schooling and went on to study Medicine at the Friedrich Schiller University (FSU) in Jena. This greatly extended his network of contacts and the so-called (in retrospect) expanded beyond its base of Eisenberg school students to become a significant opposition movement, albeit not one that ever boasted any sort of structured national organisation.\n\nAfter 1945 the German Democratic Republic hosted several hundred thousand , but the country made do without any army of its own until the establishment, formally in March 1956, of the National People's Army (four months after the establishment of the Federal Army / \"Bundeswehr\" in West Germany). This prompted Ammer and other members of the Eisenberger group, on 26 January 1956, to signal opposition to German rearmament by setting fire to a shooting stand belonging to the Party Battle group's \"Sports and Technology Association\". Ammer was the man who got hold of the kindling wood and petrol/gasoline needed for the exploit. For 1957 the Eisenberger Circle planned an appeal to academics to resist the growing centralisation of control over the universities. To outsiders, group members kept their heads down and conformed, Jammer himself serving as FDJ secretary for his student year group. They had nevertheless been noticed by the Ministry for State Security (MfS / Stasi) who during 1957 succeeded in infiltrating their own spy, a Theology student called Juergen Keller, into the group.\n\n</div></div>\nStarting with information obtained from the theology student, the Stasi launched a lengthy investigation process, apparently in May 1957. On 13 February 1958 they arrested Thomas Ammer and placed him inside the \"MfS Investigation Prison\" in Gera. By April 1958 almost 40 from the group had been taken into custody and another five, anticipating arrest, had fled to the safety of West Berlin. The Gera district court then handed out prison sentences totaling 116 years to the detainees. Thomas Ammer himself, seen as the \"head\" of the group, was sentenced on 27 September 1958, receiving the longest individual sentence, at 15 years, for \"Treason against the state\" (\"Staatsverrat\"). He was taken to the at Waldheim, later being transferred to the Brandenburg-Görden Prison. His final few weeks in detention would be spent inside the Stasi investigation prison at Berlin-Lichtenberg.\n\n</div></div>\nOn 14 August 1964, after six years in prison, Ammer was among the first of the 33,755 political prisoners to have their freedom purchased under the terms of a (not uncontroversial) concluded between East and West Germany in 1962. He was summarily delivered to the German Federal Republic where he was now able to embark on a period of study that covered Political sciences, Law and History, which took him to the universities of Tübingen, Bonn and Erlangen (by Nuremberg). He then took a job editing a magazine based in Switzerland, at the same time becoming an historian at the Social Sciences Academy in Erlangen. His work included publishing papers and articles that dealt with the German Democratic Republic and he was therefore still subject to surveillance from the East German State Security Ministry despite now living and working in West Germany. In 1968 he became a member of the West German Social Democratic Party (SPD), retaining his membership till 1982. In 1975 he obtained a research post at the in Bonn. He stayed with The Institute till its mandate was overtaken by the march of history and it was dissolved in 1991: he has lived in nearby Euskirchen, in a small house filled with his books, ever since. In 1992 he became an \"expert member\" on the Secretariat of the Commission set up by the German Bundestag to try and resolve some of the issues left over from the single-party dictatorship that had, till 1990, been the German Democratic Republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "159380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159380", "title": "Timaeus (historian)", "text": "Timaeus (historian)\n\nTimaeus (; c. 345 BC – c. 250 BC) was an ancient Greek historian.\n\nHe was born at Tauromenium (modern Taormina) in Sicily. Driven out of Sicily by Agathocles, he migrated to Athens, where he studied rhetoric under a pupil of Isocrates and lived for fifty years. During the reign of Hiero II he returned to Sicily (probably to Syracuse), where he died.\n\nWhile at Athens he completed his great historical work, the \"Histories\", probably some 40 books. This work was divided into unequal sections, containing the history of Greece from its earliest days till the first Punic war. The \"Histories\" treated the history of Italy and Sicily in early times, of Sicily alone, and of Sicily and Greece together.\n\nTimaeus devoted much attention to chronology, and introduced the system of reckoning by Olympiads. In order to plot chronologies, he employed the years of Archons of Athens, of Ephors of Sparta, and of priestesses of Argos. This system, although not adopted in everyday life, was afterwards generally used by the Greek historians.\n\nTimaeus can claim to be the first to recognize in his work the importance of Rome, which was gaining power.\n\nVery few parts of the elaborate work of this historian were preserved after Antiquity:\n\nTimaeus' work was however well spread in antiquity, as many ancient historians and other writers refer to it, and/or based their work on his writings.\n\nTimaeus was highly criticized by other historians, especially by Polybius, and indeed his unfairness towards his predecessors, which gained him the nickname of Epitimaeus (Επιτίμαιος, fault-finder), laid him open to retaliation. Polybius was well-versed in military matters and a statesman, Timaeus a bookworm without military experience or personal knowledge of the places he described. The most serious charge against Timaeus is that he willfully distorted the truth, when influenced by personal considerations: thus, he was less than fair to Dionysius I of Syracuse and Agathocles, while loud in praise of his favourite Timoleon.\n\nOn the other hand, as even Polybius admits, Timaeus consulted all available authorities and records. His attitude towards the myths, which he claims to have preserved in their simple form (hence probably his nickname γραοσυλλεκτρία, \"graosyllektria\"; Old Ragwoman, or \"collector of old wives' tales\", an allusion to his fondness for trivial details), is preferable to the rationalistic interpretation under which it had become the fashion to disguise them.\n\nBoth Dionysius of Halicarnassus and the Pseudo-Longinus characterized him as a model of \"frigidity\", although the latter admits that in other respects he is a competent writer.\n\nCicero, who was a diligent reader of Timaeus, expresses a far more favourable opinion, specially commending his copiousness of matter and variety of expression. Timaeus was one of the chief authorities used by Gnaeus Pompeius Trogus, Diodorus Siculus, and Plutarch (in his \"life of Timoleon\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25886872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25886872", "title": "Timeline of sovereign states in Europe", "text": "Timeline of sovereign states in Europe\n\nThis timeline lists sovereign states in Europe, both current and defunct, since the 11th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "32766895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32766895", "title": "Timeline of the 2011 England riots", "text": "Timeline of the 2011 England riots\n\nIn early August 2011, England was struck by riots, the worst in the country in decades. The timeline of the events of the riots spanned from 6–10 August.\n\nOn 6 August, an initially peaceful protest was held, beginning at Broadwater Farm and finishing at Tottenham police station. The protest was organised by friends and relatives of Mark Duggan (who was killed by police on 4 August 2011), to assert a perceived unmet need for justice for the family. The rioting occurred shortly after about 120 people marched from Broadwater Farm to Tottenham Police Station via the High Road. The group demanded that a senior local police officer speak to them. They stayed in front of the police station hours longer than originally planned because they were not satisfied with the seniority of the officers available at the time. A younger and more aggressive crowd arrived around dusk, some of whom were armed. Violence broke out following a rumour that police had attacked a 16-year-old girl.\n\nA series of disturbances by people in Tottenham followed the protest march on 6 August. The rioting occurred shortly after about 120 people marched from Broadwater to Tottenham Police Station via the High Road. Tottenham is in the London borough of Haringey, which has the fourth highest level of child poverty in London and 8.8% unemployment.\n\nAt 22:15, a gang of youths burned down Tottenham's post office. From around 22:30, attacks were carried out on police cars, a double-decker bus and local businesses and homes. Police vans and officers from the Territorial Support Group attended the disorder on Tottenham High Road. Shops windows were smashed and the shops looted by rioters. Fireworks, petrol bombs and other missiles were thrown at police. Twenty-six officers were injured, including one who sustained head injuries. Firefighters experienced difficulty reaching a burning building because of the disorder.\n\nA BBC News correspondent said his news crew and vehicle came under attack from youths throwing missiles. Some news crews left the scene due to the threat of violence. A \"Mail on Sunday\" photographer was beaten and mugged. The police set up a cordon around Tottenham police station and a nearby group of BBC and Sky journalists. Some of the police were on horseback.\n\nThe violent clashes were followed by the looting of Tottenham Hale retail park, which continued until dawn without police intervention.\n\nLondon Ambulance Service confirmed that ten people had been treated for injuries and that nine were in hospital.\n\nOn Sunday evening, 7 August, violent disturbances erupted in Enfield, to the north of Tottenham, among a heavy presence of riot police.\n\nEnfield Town centre, Enfield Town Park and alleyways between there and the Palace Garden shopping centre were guarded by police. A heavy police presence was seen outside Enfield Town railway station where people arriving were being searched for security reasons.\n\nRiot police arrived in Enfield Town the afternoon of 7 August as several small groups of hooded youngsters arrived in cars, buses and trains. Around 100 people were waiting in small groups in the vicinity of Enfield Town station in Southbury Road.\n\nDisorder ensued around 5:30 when a police car in Church Street was pelted with bricks. Shops were attacked, including HMV's branch in Church Street. A police helicopter hovered over the area.\n\nAt around 19:00, police pushed a group of around thirty youths back onto Southbury Road towards the junction with Great Cambridge Road. Police dogs were deployed at the scene. Similar action drove back approximately 50 people along Southbury Road via Queens Street, after a preceding clash with rioters outside a supermarket.\n\nAt 19:30, both Metropolitan Police officers and reinforcements from Kent Police cordoned off Enfield, making a \"sterile area\" to deal with local disturbances, including robberies at Enfield Retail Park.\n\nThe scenes of Enfield were \"reminiscent of Tottenham, though smaller.\"\n\nLooting spread to Brixton that evening. Six fire engines fought a blaze at a Foot Locker shoe shop in Brixton. Riot police and youths clashed near a local Currys store that was broken into during the disturbances. Speaking to \"The Daily Telegraph\", a local resident described \"hundreds\" of men and women entering the electrical shop and emerging with TVs and other electrical goods. When police arrived, the looters attacked, throwing rocks and the contents of rubbish bins at officers. A branch of Halfords was targeted and looted by youths.\n\nOne Brixton resident said: \"People were coming to Brixton from outside the area. I was getting out of Brixton Tube last night about 22:30 and going up the escalator when about 10 teenagers ran up the escalator and pushed me to one side.\" By 11:57, both Tesco and Foot Locker were targeted by looters. Lambeth Council's leader, Councillor Steve Reed said of the mobs in Streatham, \"They were looters not rioters.\"\n\nDisorder broke out in Wood Green, two miles (3 km) from Tottenham, during the early hours of 7 August. Widespread looting involved around 100 youths who targeted high-street game shops, electrical shops and clothing chains. Others ransacked local shops on Wood Green High Road. A family-run jeweller was hit.\n\nBy 20:00, major rioting had spread to Wood Green, with riot police on hand. Again, the police did not intervene to stop the looting. The mostly Turkish and Kurdish shop owners along Wood Green, Turnpike Lane and Green Lanes, Harringay, formed local 'protection units' around their shops.\n\n\n\nOn 7 August, riots led to the cancellation of the Hackney One Carnival and Parks for Life Festival in Clissold Park, Stoke Newington.\n\nOperation Withern was launched to investigate the cause of Mark Duggan's fatal shooting and the subsequent riots. According to a statement by the Metropolitan Police Service, Operation Withern was being led by Detective Superintendent John Sweeney of the Metropolitan Police Service, and is made up of detectives from the Homicide and Serious Crime Command, specialist investigators from the Public Order Branch and police support staff.\n\nThe MP for Brent North, Barry Gardiner, said that community involvement there had so far prevented riots.\n\nThe Mayor Of London, Boris Johnson, revealed that he had provided an extra £42,000,000 to the Metropolitan Police during the previous year to increase police numbers in London.\n\nOfficers from North Yorkshire Police responded to the request to assist their colleagues in London.\n\nBy 07:59, the Metropolitan Police Commander Christine Jones said: \"This is a challenging situation with small pockets of violence, looting and disorder breaking out on a number of boroughs.\" Jewellery shops across Tottenham, Enfield and Wood Green suffered break-ins. The Victoria line was closed between Stockwell and Brixton \"due to civil unrest\", according to London Underground. Angel, Islington, Stoke Newington and Wood Green were in police lockdown. All 32 boroughs of London were placed on riot alert.\n\nPolice closed the entire area around West Croydon station on the evening of 8 August. Bricks, bottles, stones and fireworks were thrown at police. Looted shops included branches of Argos, Iceland, House of Fraser, Orange, Maplin Electronics and Tesco. Purley Way stores Best Buy, PC World and Comet were heavily looted for electronics. Many other small businesses were also affected.\n\nA large furniture shop, House of Reeves, which had been in Croydon since 1867, was burned to the ground. Arsonists struck later that night and destroyed another building in the Reeves Corner district of Croydon. A Sky News satellite van came under attack and many shops, cars and buses were set alight in West Croydon. At 19:45, Croydon Advertiser reporter Gareth Davies was mugged while reporting in Surrey Street and Church Street.\n\nA 26-year-old man from Brixton, Trevor Ellis, was shot and killed in South Croydon on Warrington Road. Police believe he was shot after a car chase following an argument over stolen goods, but as of August 2012 had not charged any suspects.\n\nIn February 2012, the Croydon Advertiser reported an investigation was underway following reports that only 3% of the police attended to the riots in Croydon whilst others were deployed elsewhere.\n\nSome Ealing businesses were asked by police to close at 5 pm. On Ealing Broadway a group of 200 people attacked police cars and vandalised and looted shops.\n\nAround Haven Green, close to Ealing Broadway tube station, cars and a bus were set alight and many other cars vandalised, shops had their windows smashed, a supermarket was looted and nearby residential properties were burgled. Near Ealing Green more shops were looted, several cars torched and a supermarket set alight with petrol bombs. Rioters attempting to vandalise two pubs in this area were dissuaded by the customers and staff. Hundreds of young people looted shops in West Ealing. There was minor trouble in Ealing Green. A 68-year-old man was assaulted and robbed when he tried to remonstrate with rioters. He was taken to hospital with life-threatening injuries, and died three days later.\n\nOn the morning of 8 August several shops in Enfield Town and in the nearby A10 retail park were vandalised and looted, and two vehicles set ablaze. A large crowd of youths moved westwards, toward nearby Ponders End and wrecked a local Tesco. Hundreds of riot police and canine units arrived with vans and charged at groups of teenagers until they dispersed, smashing cars and shop windows on the way. A large Sony distribution centre was set alight and the fire destroyed the building. Three Watford fire engines were called to the Sony warehouse in Enfield at about 03.30 the next day.\n\n\n\n\n\nOfficers from North Yorkshire Police responded to requests to assist their colleagues in London. A statement by North Yorkshire Police's Temporary Deputy Chief Constable, Tim Madgwick, said:\n\nNorth Yorkshire Police continue to monitor the aftermath of the disorder affecting other parts of the country, and we can confirm that to date, there are no reports of any similar incidents in North Yorkshire. \n\nThe Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire Civil Contingencies and Public Order Planning Unit sent a Police Support Unit (PSU) to London. Custody space in Bedfordshire cells and call taking support was also offered.\n\nBowes was a 68-year-old British retired accountant who died as a result of being attacked in the street in Ealing. He was the fifth fatality related to events associated with the riots.\n\nHe was attacked by a mob on 8 August 2011, while attempting to extinguish an arson fire in industrial bins on Spring Bridge Road. The attack left him in a coma. The assault was caught on CCTV and filmed on mobile phones by associates of the man who hit him.\n\nPolice officers arrived at 10:45pm in response to reports of looting at the Arcadia shopping centre. They were not wearing protective gear and were outnumbered by approximately 120 rioters. The attack on Bowes was witnessed by several police officers, but they were unable to respond in time. They requested assistance as they were showered with bottles and bricks. Riot squad officers who responded had to push back rioters while being attacked to reach Bowes. A line of officers then held back the rioters as paramedics arrived.\n\nBowes was found without a wallet or phone as they had been stolen, and police initially faced difficulty in identifying him. He died of his injuries in St Mary's Hospital on 11 August 2011 after being removed from life support.\n\nA 22-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of murder, rioting and committing three burglaries; he was released on bail. A 16-year-old boy was arrested for Bowes' murder and for burglary.\n\nBowes had moved to Ealing in 1994. He lived alone in a flat in Haven Green. He was described as quiet and shy and a loner. He is reported to have previously challenged anti-social behaviour in the area. On one occasion, ten years earlier, he was fined for confronting youths who were urinating outside his home.\n\nRevulsion at Bowes's death was widespread. His local council is considering naming the alleyway where he was attacked after him. Ealing Council flew the Union Flag at half-mast over its town hall as a mark of respect. It also announced that it was launching the \"Richard Mannington Bowes Relief Fund\" in his memory.\n\nBowes was hailed as a hero for his actions by the media and politicians. Mayor Johnson was particularly vocal: \"I feel desperately sorry and sad for him, and what a hero he is. He walked straight up in front of the looters and tried to stop what was happening. He is an example to everybody.\"\n\nTime Magazine wrote \"Not since the blitz during World War II have so many fires raged in London so intensely at one time\".\n\nLooters burned a Sony-owned warehouse in Solar Way, Enfield which acted as the primary distribution hub for the independent music distributor PIAS Entertainment Group.\n\nIn the morning, youths formed groups of 10 to 12 in areas across Havering, including Romford, Hornchurch, Collier Row, Rainham, Harold Hill and Upminster, a police spokesman said, but officers dispersed groups or issued street warnings and spot deterrents.\n\nArrests took place for low-level crimes like spitting at an officer and ABH, since officers were highly visible. Around 50 special police volunteers responded, helping to man potentially volatile situations.\n\nFire crews reported a quiet night. Three Watford fire engines were called to the continuing Sony warehouse fire in Enfield at about 03.30 that day.\n\nLooting continued throughout the early hours within the Tandem Centre and Priory retail estates in Merton. Police withdrew after coming under attack from a group of over 100 people. Mothercare, JD Sports and PC World were targeted, with Mothercare and Harveys the victims of arson. Police retook the retail parks approximately 3 hour after their withdrawal. Sporadic looting was reported, with convenience stores in Phipps Bridge and a Betting shop in Mitcham was looted.\n\n\n\n\nLondon\n\nRest of England\n\nThe fire crews from Richmond and Twickenham helped put out fires in neighbouring boroughs as rioting spread across London. Richmond's red watch was called to Merton where they tackled a blaze at Priory retail estate in Colliers Wood.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPrime Minister David Cameron returned early from his Italian holiday and chaired an emergency meeting of COBR, following the third night of violence. In a statement at 11:00, Cameron announced that 16,000 police officers would be deployed in London, with all police leave cancelled. He announced that Parliament would be recalled on 11 August to debate the situation. Over 525 people had been arrested since the start of the disruption, and the Metropolitan Police have announced their intention to use baton rounds against rioters if necessary. East Ham's Labour MP Stephen Timms and Newham's Mayor Robin Wales praised police for their efforts that day.\n\nOfficers from the Thames Valley, Essex, Kent, City of London, Norfolk, North Yorkshire, Hertfordshire, Bedfordshire, Surrey and Sussex police constabularies sent officers to help tackle the London riots.\n\nBy 9 August 2011 563 arrests had been made in London since the start of the disruption, and 100 arrests made in Birmingham.\n\nA 16-year-old boy was charged with breach of the peace in connection with a message inciting rioting in Scotland on a social networking site. The boy was detained on the south side of Glasgow about 12.40 over the Facebook page entitled \"Let's Start a Riot in Glasgow\", which was related to a similar site called \"Glasgow Riot FRIDAY 12TH\". Both the sites were shuttered.\n\n\nDavid Cameron chaired another emergency meeting of COBRA, mid-morning. In a statement at 11:05, Cameron announced that plastic bullets were available to the police for use in response to the riots if necessary, and put contingency plans in place to make water cannons available at 24 hours notice.\nThe leader of Hounslow Council, Councillor Jagdish Sharma, urged local residents to \"continue to refrain\" from taking part in the London riots that had so far not hit the London Borough of Hounslow.\n\nThe Acting Scotland Yard Commissioner Tim Godwin condemned the \"gratuitous\" violence by the rioters.\n\nThe assistant chief constable of Norfolk police, Charlie Hall, slammed people who used Twitter and Facebook to post \"fictitious and malicious rumours\" that the riots had moved to many to safe, including Norwich. Looters had never struck either in Anglia Square or at PC World.\n\nThe family of Mark Duggan said they \"are not condoning\" the riots and looting that rocked north London, that left 26 police officers injured.\n\nLocal Christians gathered in Derby's Market Place yesterday to hold a prayer meeting to ask for God's help and love towards all those involved in the riots.\n\nPersistent heavy rain reduced the numbers of rioters or wandering groups on the streets.\n\nBy 08:05, police had made more than 1,100 arrests, including 768 in London, 35 in Liverpool, 5 in Milton Keynes, 90 in Nottingham, 13 in Leicester and 19 in Bristol. By 15:00, the police had made 113 arrests in Greater Manchester.\n\n\nParliament was recalled from its summer recess. This day's debate included the longest question time ever.\n\nCameron told lawmakers there would be no \"culture of fear\" on Britain's streets, and that the government would consider taking gang-fighting tips from American cities such as Boston. He mentioned former Los Angeles and New York Police Chief Bill Bratton as someone who could offer advice. He said he also wanted to build on the success of programmes to tackle gang culture, such as the task force used by Strathclyde Police. Both Theresa May and Cameron accused the Metropolitan Police service and the West Midlands Police force of being \"too few, too slow, too timid\" during the rioting in London and the West Midlands county. He said the police on the streets of London were too few and used poor and incorrect tactics when dealing with the rioters.\n\nCameron said that the government, police and intelligence services were looking at whether there should be limits on the use of social media sites such as Twitter and Facebook or services such as BlackBerry Messenger to spread organised disorder, and whether to turn off social networks or stop texting during times of social unrest.\n\nThe number of arrestees in London rose to 922 and 401 suspects had been charged.\nThe police said they had arrested 330 people over the past four nights. One of the arrested people was an 11-year-old girl from Nottingham.\n\nThe Prime Minister promised to use the Riot Damages Act, to cover uninsured facilities and buildings and set up a £20,000,000 fund for High Street businesses to use relief following riots.\n\nOf more than one thousand people arrested during the three days of troubles in London, about six hundred had been charged by 12 August.\n\nThe IPCC watchdog admitted that it inadvertently led media to believe shots were exchanged and that Mark Duggan was carrying a gun that was never used.\n\nPolice forces around England, and especially those in London, Birmingham, Manchester and Nottingham increased their numbers on the streets. Bill Bratton was announced as Cameron's new crime adviser.\n\nAn estimated 2,000 people joined a vigil in Summerfield Park and laid flowers in memory of officers men who died protecting shops from looters in Winson Green, Birmingham. They were victims of a hit and run attack.\n\nScotland Yard stated that 2,140 people had been arrested, of whom about 1,000 had been charged.\n\nThe Deputy PM Nick Clegg said that the government would set up an independent \"community and victims panel\" to look into the riots. He pledged that when an offender who leaves prison from March 2012 they will be met by providers on the Work Programme at the prison gate.\n\nA 16-year-old from Hounslow was to be tried for the murder of Richard Mannington Bowes as well as violent disorder and four counts of burglary relating to the looting at a William Hill bookmakers, a Tesco Express, a Blockbuster video shop and a Fatboys restaurant.\n\nMartin McRobb, the Crown Advocate for CPS Mersey-Cheshire, read out in Chester court that \"Jordan Blackshaw and Perry Sutcliffe independently and from the safety of their homes may have thought that it would be acceptable to set up a Facebook page to incite others to take part in disorders in Cheshire.\" Cheshire Constabulary had discovered that they used a Facebook group that Blackshaw created to promote the rioting. Blackshaw was from Northwich and Sutcliffe was from Warrington.\n\nThe Liberal Democrat MP for Bradford East, David Ward, described government plans to withdraw benefits from convicted rioters as \"nuts\". Cameron defended the scheme.\n\nPrince Charles and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall visited areas of London, including the Tottenham Green Leisure Centre, which was transformed into an aid centre in the aftermath of the rioting.\n\nWest Midlands Police released pictures of gunmen shooting at police officers in both Birmingham and Wolverhampton. A police helicopter was shot at in the Newton part of Birmingham.\nJae-Kiel Van Eda, 28, was arrested after participating in an act in which 2 constables were hit by a green Citroen while they were dealing with reports of a group looting a clothes shop in Waltham Forest, north-east London on 8 August. One officer suffered knee and leg injuries and the other shoulder injuries.\n\nAs of 31 August, a total 2,987 were arrested and an estimated £100m of damage recorded in 93 shops and other premises.\n"}
{"id": "1149735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1149735", "title": "William Duncan Strong", "text": "William Duncan Strong\n\nWilliam Duncan Strong (1899–1962) was an American archaeologist and anthropologist noted for his application of the direct historical approach to the study of indigenous peoples of North and South America. \n\nStrong was born in Portland, Oregon. \n\nHe initially studied zoology, but he changed his focus to anthropology at the University of California, Berkeley, under the influence of Alfred L. Kroeber, who became his \"principal teacher, mentor, and friend\". Strong completed his doctorate in 1926.\n\nStrong's doctoral dissertation, \"An Analysis of Southwestern Society\", was published in \"American Anthropologist\". A related study of his, \"Aboriginal Society in Southern California\", presenting his detailed fieldwork among the Serrano, Luiseño, Cupeño, and Cahuilla peoples, has been characterized as \"one of the earliest and one of the best efforts by a United States anthropologist to combine structural-functional analysis with historical data and interpretation\". Strong also conducted ethnographic field research among the Naskapi of Labrador. \n\nMost of Strong's anthropological contributions were specifically in archaeology. His 1935 study, \"An Introduction to Nebraska Archaeology\", is credited with providing a major impetus for the direct historical approach in archaeology. \n\nIn the 1930s, Strong, Waldo Rudolph Wedel and A. T. Hill found archaeological evidence in Nebraska different from the prehistoric Central Plains and Woodland traditions. The evidence was attributed to a new culture called the Dismal River culture, or Dismal River aspect, for its location on the Dismal River basin of Nebraska, dated between 1650-1750. \n\nStrong performed pioneering fieldwork in California's San Joaquin Valley, the Pacific Northwest, the American Great Plains, Labrador, and Honduras. In Peru, he developed statistical methods to seriate pottery styles and is credited with the discovery of the tomb of the war god Ai apaec in 1946. \n\nStrong held academic positions at the University of Nebraska and Columbia University. Among his notable students were the archaeologists Waldo Wedel and Gordon Willey.\n\n"}
{"id": "34155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34155", "title": "Xenophon", "text": "Xenophon\n\nXenophon of Athens (; , , \"Xenophōn\"; – 354 BC) was an ancient Greek philosopher, historian, soldier, mercenary, and student of Socrates. As a soldier, Xenophon became commander of the Ten Thousand at about 29, with noted military historian Theodore Ayrault Dodge saying of him, “the centuries since have devised nothing to surpass the \ngenius of this warrior.” He established the precedent for many logistical operations and was among the first to use flanking maneuvers, feints and attacks in depth. He was among the greatest commanders of antiquity.\nAs a historian, Xenophon is known for recording the history of his time, the late-5th and early-4th centuries BC, in such works as the \"Hellenica\", which covered the final seven years and the aftermath of the Peloponnesian War (431–404 BC), thus representing a thematic continuation of Thucydides' \"History of the Peloponnesian War\". \n\nAs one of the Ten Thousand (Greek mercenaries), Xenophon participated in Cyrus the Younger's failed campaign to claim the Persian throne from his brother Artaxerxes II of Persia and recounted the events in \"Anabasis\", his most notable history. Like Plato (427–347 BC), Xenophon is an authority on Socrates, about whom he wrote several books of dialogues (the \"Memorabilia\") and an \"Apology of Socrates to the Jury\", which recounts the philosopher's trial in 399 BC.\n\nDespite being born an Athenian citizen, Xenophon was also associated with Sparta, the traditional enemy of Athens. His pro-oligarchic politics, military service under Spartan generals, in the Persian campaign and elsewhere, and his friendship with King Agesilaus II endeared Xenophon to the Spartans. Some of his works have a pro–Spartan bias, especially the royal biography \"Agesilaus\" and the \"Constitution of the Spartans\".\n\nXenophon's works span several genres and are written in plain-language Attic Greek, for which reason they serve as translation exercises for contemporary students of the Ancient Greek language. In the \"Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers\", Diogenes Laërtius observed that, as a writer, Xenophon of Athens was known as the “Attic Muse”, for the sweetness of his diction (2.6).\n\nXenophon was born around 430 BC, near the city of Athens, to Gryllus, of the deme Erchia of Athens. His father's family were a wealthy equestrian family. The history of his youth is little attested before 401 BC, when he was convinced by his Boeotian friend Proxenus (\"Anabasis\" 3.1.9) to participate in the military expedition led by Cyrus the Younger against his elder brother, King Artaxerxes II of Persia.\n\nWritten years after these events, Xenophon's book \"Anabasis\" (Greek: ἀνάβασις, literally \"going up\") is his record of the entire expedition of Cyrus against the Persians and the Greek mercenaries’ journey home. Xenophon writes that he had asked the veteran Socrates for advice on whether to go with Cyrus, and that Socrates referred him to the divinely inspired Pythia. Xenophon's query to the oracle, however, was not whether or not to accept Cyrus' invitation, but \"to which of the gods he must pray and do sacrifice, so that he might best accomplish his intended journey and return in safety, with good fortune\". The oracle answered his question and told him to which gods to pray and sacrifice. When Xenophon returned to Athens and told Socrates of the oracle's advice, Socrates chastised him for asking so disingenuous a question (\"Anabasis\" 3.1.5–7).\n\nUnder the pretext of fighting Tissaphernes, the Persian satrap of Ionia, Cyrus assembled a massive army composed of native Persian soldiers, but also a large number of Greeks. Prior to waging war against Artaxerxes, Cyrus proposed that the enemy was the Pisidians, and so the Greeks were unaware that they were to battle against the larger army of King Artaxerxes II (\"Anabasis\" 1.1.8–11). At Tarsus the soldiers became aware of Cyrus's plans to depose the king, and as a result, refused to continue (\"Anabasis\" 1.3.1). However, Clearchus, a Spartan general, convinced the Greeks to continue with the expedition. The army of Cyrus met the army of Artaxerxes II in the Battle of Cunaxa. Despite effective fighting by the Greeks, Cyrus was killed in the battle (\"Anabasis\" 1.8.27–1.9.1). Shortly thereafter, Clearchus was invited to a peace conference, where, alongside four other generals and many captains, he was betrayed and executed (\"Anabasis\" 2.5.31–32).\n\nThe mercenaries, known as the Ten Thousand, found themselves without leadership far from the sea, deep in hostile territory near the heart of Mesopotamia, with a hostile population and armies to deal with. They elected new leaders, including Xenophon himself. \n\nDodge says of Xenophon's generalship, \"Xenophon is the father of the system of retreat, the originator of all that appertains to the science of rear-guard fighting. He reduced its management to a perfect method. More originality in tactics has come from the Anabasis than from any dozen other books. Every system of war looks to this as to the fountain-head when it comes to rearward movements, as it looks to Alexander for a pattern of resistless and intelligent advance. Necessity to Xenophon was truly the mother of invention, but the centuries since have devised nothing to surpass the genius of this warrior. No general ever possessed a grander moral ascendant over his men. None ever worked for the safety of his soldiers with greater ardor or to better effect.\" \nXenophon and his men initially had to deal with volleys by a minor force of harassing Persian missile cavalry. Every day, these cavalry, finding no opposition from the Ten Thousand, moved cautiously closer and closer. One night, Xenophon formed a body of archers and light cavalry. When the Persian cavalry arrived the next day, now firing within several yards, Xenophon suddenly unleashed his new cavalry in a shock charge, smashing into the stunned and confused enemy, killing many and routing the rest. Tissaphernes pursued Xenophon with a vast force, and when the Greeks reached the wide and deep Great Zab River, it seemed they were surrounded. However, Xenophon quickly devised a plan: all goats, cows, sheeps and donkeys were slaughtered and their bodies stuffed with hay, laid across the river and sewed up and covered with dirt so as not to be slippery. This created a bridge across which Xenophon led his men before the Persians could get to them. That Xenophon was able to acquire the means of feeding his force in the heart of a vast empire with a hostile population was astonishing. Dodge notes, \"On this retreat also was first shown the necessary, if cruel, means of arresting a pursuing enemy by the systematic devastation of the country traversed and the destruction of its villages to deprive him of food and shelter. And Xenophon is moreover the first who established in rear of the phalanx a reserve from which he could at will feed weak parts of his line. This was a superb first conception.\" \n\nThe Ten Thousand eventually made their way into the land of the Carduchians, a wild tribe inhabiting the mountains of modern southeastern Turkey. The Carduchians were \"a fierce, war-loving race, who had never been conquered. Once the Great King had sent into their country an army of 120,000 men, to subdue them, but of all that great host not one had ever seen his home again.\" The Ten Thousand made their way in and were fired at by stones and arrows for several days before they reached a defile where the main Carduchian host sat. In the Battle of the Carduchian Defile, Xenophon had 8,000 men feint at this host and marched the other 2,000 to a pass revealed by a prisoner under the cover of a rainstorm, and \"having made their way to the rear of the main pass, at daylight, under cover of the morning mist, they boldly pushed in upon the astonished Carducians. The blare of their many trumpets gave notice of their successful detour to Xenophon, as well as added to the confusion of the enemy. The main army at once joined in the attack from the valley side, and the Carducians were driven from their stronghold.\" After heavy mountain fighting in which Xenophon showed the calm and patience needed for the situation, the Greeks made their way to the northern foothills of the mountains at the Centrites River, only to find a major Persian force blocking the route north. With the Carduchians surging toward the Greek rear, Xenophon again faced the threat of total destruction in battle. Xenophon's scouts quickly found another ford, but the Persians moved and blocked this as well. Xenophon, in a cunning tactic reminiscent of that of Robert E. Lee before the Seven Days Battle, sent a small force back toward the other ford, causing the anxious Persians to detach a major part of their force parallel. Xenophon stormed and completely overwhelmed the force at his ford, while the Greek detachment made a forced march to this bridgehead. This was among the first attacks in depth ever made, 23 years after Delium and 30 years before Epaminondas’ more famous use of it at Leuctra.\nWinter by now arrived as the Greeks marched through Armenia \"absolutely unprovided with clothing suitable for such weather\" , inflicting more casualties than they suffered during a skillful ambush of a local satrap's force and the flanking of another force in this period (although the lack of winter clothes cannot really be blamed on soldiers prepared for conquering sunny Babylon). At a period when the Greeks were in desperate need of food, they decided upon attacking a wooden castle known to have had storage. The castle, however, was stationed on a hill surrounded by forest. Xenophon ordered small parties of his men to appear on the hill road, and when the defenders fired, one soldier would leap into the trees, and he \"did this so often that at last there was quite a heap of stones lying in front of him, but he himself was untouched.\" Then, \"the other men followed his example, and made it a sort of game, enjoying the sensation, pleasant alike to old and young, of courting danger for a moment, and then quickly escaping it. When the stones were almost exhausted, the soldiers raced one another over the exposed part of the road\", storming the fortress, which, with most of the garrison now neutralized, barely put up a fight. \n\nSoon after, Xenophon's men reached Trapezus on the coast of the Black Sea (\"Anabasis\" 4.8.22). Before their departure, the Greeks made an alliance with the locals and fought one last battle against the Colchians, vassals of the Persians, in mountainous country. Xenophon ordered his men to deploy the line extremely thin so as to overlap the enemy, keeping a strong reserve. The Colchians, seeing they were being outflanked, divided their army to check the Greek deployment, opening a gap in their lie through which Xenophon rushed in his reserves, scoring a brilliant Greek victory. \n\nThey then made their way westward back to Greece via Chrysopolis (\"Anabasis\" 6.3.16). Once there, they helped Seuthes II make himself king of Thrace, before being recruited into the army of the Spartan general Thibron. The Spartans were at war with Tissaphernes and Pharnabazus II, Persian satraps in Anatolia, probably on account of the aforementioned treacherous slaughter of their general Clearchus. Xenophon’s military activity with these Spartans marks the final episodes of the \"Anabasis\" (Books 6–7).\n\nFilled with a plethora of originality and tactical genius, Xenophon's conduct of the retreat caused Dodge to name the Athenian knight the greatest general that preceded Alexander the Great. \n\nXenophon has long been associated with the opposition of democracy. Although Xenophon seems to prefer oligarchy, or at least the aristocracy, especially in light of his associations with Sparta, none of his works explicitly attack democracy, unless his account of democratic proceedings in the Anabasis be interpreted as anti-democracy when deliberations are intimidated by cries of \"pelt\" if a speaker says something others disagree with. Some scholars go so far as to say his views aligned with those of the democracy in his time. However, certain works of Xenophon, in particular the \"Cyropaedia\", seem to show his oligarchic politics. This historical-fiction serves as a forum for Xenophon to subtly display his political inclinations.\n\nXenophon wrote the \"Cyropaedia\" to outline his political and moral philosophy. He did this by endowing a fictional version of the boyhood of Cyrus the Great, founder of the first Persian Empire, with the qualities of what Xenophon considered the ideal ruler. Historians have asked whether Xenophon's portrait of Cyrus was accurate or if Xenophon imbued Cyrus with events from Xenophon's own life. The consensus is that Cyrus’s career is best outlined in the \"Histories\" of Herodotus. But Steven Hirsch writes, \"Yet there are occasions when it can be confirmed from Oriental evidence that Xenophon is correct where Herodotus is wrong or lacks information. A case in point involves the ancestry of Cyrus.\" Herodotus contradicts Xenophon at several other points, most notably in the matter of Cyrus’s relationship with the Median Kingdom. Herodotus says that Cyrus led a rebellion against his maternal grandfather, Astyages king of Media, and defeated him, thereafter (improbably) keeping Astyages in his court for the remainder of his life (\"Histories\" 1.130). The Medes were thus \"reduced to subjection\" (1.130) and became \"slaves\" (1.129) to the Persians 20 years before the capture of Babylon in 539 BC.\n\nThe \"Cyropaedia\" relates instead that Astyages died and was succeeded by his son Cyaxares II, the maternal uncle of Cyrus (1.5.2). In the initial campaign against the Lydians, Babylonians and their allies, the Medians were led by Cyaxares and the Persians by Cyrus, who was crown prince of the Persians, since his father was still alive (4.5.17). Xenophon relates that at this time the Medes were the strongest of the kingdoms that opposed the Babylonians (1.5.2). There is an echo of this statement, verifying Xenophon and contradicting Herodotus, in the Harran Stele, a document from the court of Nabonidus. In the entry for year 14 or 15 of his reign (542-540 BC), Nabonidus speaks of his enemies as the kings of Egypt, the Medes, and the Arabs. There is no mention of the Persians,\nalthough according to Herodotus and the current consensus the Medians had been made \"slaves\" of the Persians several years previously. It does not seem that Nabonidus would be completely misled about who his enemies were, or who was really in control over the Medes and Persians just one to three years before his kingdom fell to their armies.\nOther archaeological evidence supporting Xenophon’s picture of a confederation of Medes and Persians, rather than a subjugation of the Medes by the Persians, comes from the bas-reliefs in the stairway at Persepolis. These show no distinction in official rank or status between the Persian and Median nobility. Although Olmstead followed the consensus view that Cyrus subjugated the Medes, he nevertheless wrote, \"Medes were honored equally with Persians; they were employed in high office and were chosen to lead Persian armies.\" A more extensive list of considerations related to the credibility of the \"Cyropaedia’s\" picture of the relationship between the Medes and Persians is found on the \"Cyropaedia\" page.\n\nBoth Herodotus (1.123,214) and Xenophon (1.5.1,2,4, 8.5.20) present Cyrus as about 40 years old when his forces captured Babylon. In the Nabonidus Chronicle, there is mention of the death of the wife of the king (name not given) within a month after the capture of Babylon. It has been conjectured that this was Cyrus’s first wife, which lends credibility to the \"Cyropaedia\"’s statement (8.5.19) that Cyaxares II gave his daughter in marriage to Cyrus soon (but not immediately) after the fall of the city, with the kingdom of Media as her dowry. When Cyaxares died about two years later the Median kingdom passed peaceably to Cyrus, so that this would be the true beginning of the Medo-Persian Empire under just one monarch.\n\nThe \"Cyropaedia\" as a whole lavishes a great deal of praise on the first Persian emperor, Cyrus the Great, on account of his virtue and leadership quality, and it was through his greatness that the Persian Empire held together. Thus this book is normally read as a positive treatise about Cyrus. However, following the lead of Leo Strauss, David Johnson suggests that there is a subtle but strong layer to the book in which Xenophon conveys criticism of not only the Persians but the Spartans and Athenians as well.\n\nIn section 4.3 of the \"Cyropaedia\" Cyrus makes clear his desire to institute cavalry. He even goes so far to say that he desires that no Persian \"kalokagathos\" (\"noble and good man\" literally, or simply \"noble\") ever be seen on foot but always on a horse, so much so that the Persians may actually seem to be centaurs (4.3.22–23). Centaurs were often thought of as creatures of ill repute, which makes even Cyrus’ own advisors wary of the label. His minister Chrysantas admires the centaurs for their dual nature, but also warns that the dual nature does not allow centaurs to fully enjoy or act as either one of their aspects in full (4.3.19–20).\n\nIn labelling Persians as centaurs through the mouth of Cyrus, Xenophon plays upon the popular post-Persian-war propagandistic paradigm of using mythological imagery to represent the Greco-Persian conflict. Examples of this include the wedding of the Lapiths, giantomachy, Trojan War, and Amazonomachy on the Parthenon frieze. Johnson reads even more deeply into the centaur label. He believes that the unstable dichotomy of man and horse found in a centaur is indicative of the unstable and unnatural alliance of Persian and Mede formulated by Cyrus. The Persian hardiness and austerity is combined with the luxuriousness of the Medes, two qualities that cannot coexist. He cites the regression of the Persians directly after the death of Cyrus as a result of this instability, a union made possible only through the impeccable character of Cyrus. In a further analysis of the centaur model, Cyrus is likened to a centaur such as Chiron, a noble example from an ignoble race. Thus this entire paradigm seems to be a jab at the Persians and an indication of Xenophon’s general distaste for the Persians.\n\nThe strength of Cyrus in holding the empire together is praiseworthy according to Xenophon. However, the empire began to decline upon the death of Cyrus. By this example Xenophon sought to show that empires lacked stability and could only be maintained by a person of remarkable prowess, such as Cyrus. Cyrus is idealized greatly in the narrative. Xenophon displays Cyrus as a lofty, temperate man. This is not to say that he was not a good ruler, but he is depicted as surreal and not subject to the foibles of other men. By showing that only someone who is almost beyond human could conduct such an enterprise as empire, Xenophon indirectly censures imperial design. Thus he also reflects on the state of his own reality in an even more indirect fashion, using the example of the Persians to decry the attempts at empire made by Athens and Sparta. Although partially graced with hindsight, having written the \"Cyropaedia\" after the downfall of Athens in the Peloponnesian War, this work criticizes the Greek attempts at empire and \"monarchy\", dooming them to failure.\n\nAnother passage that Johnson cites as criticism of monarchy and empire concerns the devaluation of the \"homotīmoi\". The manner in which this occurs seems also to be a subtle jab at democracy. \"Homotīmoi\" were highly and thoroughly educated and thus became the core of the soldiery as heavy infantry. As the name \"homotīmoi\" (\"equal\", or \"same honours\" i.e. \"peers\") suggests, their small band (1000 when Cyrus fought the Assyrians) shared equally in the spoils of war. However, in the face of overwhelming numbers in a campaign against the Assyrians, Cyrus armed the commoners with similar arms instead of their normal light ranged armament (\"Cyropaedia\" 2.1.9). Argument ensued as to how the spoils would now be split, and Cyrus enforced a meritocracy. Many \"homotīmoi\" found this unfair because their military training was no better than the commoners, only their education, and hand-to-hand combat was less a matter of skill than strength and bravery. As Johnson asserts, this passage decries imperial meritocracy and corruption, for the \"homotīmoi\" now had to sychophantize to the emperor for positions and honours; from this point they were referred to as \"entīmoi\", no longer of the \"same honours\" but having to be \"in\" to get the honour. On the other hand, the passage seems to be critical of democracy, or at least sympathetic to aristocrats within democracy, for the \"homotīmoi\" (aristocracy/oligarchs) are devalued upon the empowerment of the commoners (\"demos\"). Although empire emerges in this case, this is also a sequence of events associated with democracy. Through his dual critique of empire and democracy, Xenophon subtly relates his support of oligarchy.\n\nThe Spartans wrote nothing about themselves, or if they did it is lost. Therefore, what we know about them comes exclusively from outsiders like Xenophon. Xenophon’s affinity for the Spartans is clear in the Constitution of the Spartans, as well as his penchant for oligarchy. The opening line reads:\n\nXenophon goes on to describe in detail the main aspects of Laconia, handing to us the most comprehensive extant analysis of the institutions of Sparta.\n\nA short treatise on the \"Constitution of the Athenians\" exists that was once thought to be by Xenophon, but which was probably written when Xenophon was about five years old. The author, often called in English the \"Old Oligarch\" or Pseudo-Xenophon, detests the democracy of Athens and the poorer classes, but he argues that the Periclean institutions are well designed for their deplorable purposes. Although the real Xenophon seems to prefer oligarchy over democracy, none of his works so ardently decry democracy as does the Constitution of the Athenians. However, this treatise makes evident that anti-democratic sentiments were extant in Athens in the late 5th century BC and were only increased after its shortcomings were exploited and made apparent during the Peloponnesian War.\n\nXenophon’s works includes a selection of Socratic dialogues; these writings are completely preserved. Except for the dialogues of Plato, they are the only surviving representatives of the genre of Socratic dialogue. These works include Xenophon's \"Apology, Memorabilia, Symposium,\" and \"Oeconomicus\". The \"Symposium\" outlines the character of Socrates as he and his companions discuss what attribute they take pride in. In \"Oeconomicus\", Socrates explains how to manage a household. Both the \"Apology\" and \"Memorabilia\" defend Socrates’ character and teachings. The former is set during the trial of Socrates, essentially defending Socrates’ loss and death, while the latter is a defence of Socrates, explaining his moral principles and that he was not a corrupter of the youth.\n\nXenophon was a student of Socrates, and their personal relationship is evident through a conversation between the two in Xenophon’s \"Anabasis\". In his \"Lives of Eminent Philosophers\", the Greek biographer Diogenes Laertius reports how Xenophon met Socrates. \"They say that Socrates met [Xenophon] in a narrow lane, and put his stick across it and prevented him from passing by, asking him where all kinds of necessary things were sold. And when he had answered him, he asked him again where men were made good and virtuous. And as he did not know, he said, ‘Follow me, then, and learn.’ And from this time forth, Xenophon became a follower of Socrates.\" Diogenes Laertius also relates an incident \"when in the battle of Delium Xenophon had fallen from his horse\" and Socrates reputedly \"stepped in and saved his life.\"\n\nXenophon's admiration for his teacher is clear in writings such as \"Symposium\", \"Apology\", and \"Memorabilia\". Xenophon was away on his Persian campaign during the trial and death of Socrates. Nevertheless, much of Xenophon's Socratic writing, especially \"Apology\", concerns that very trial and the defence Socrates put forward.\n\nBoth Plato and Xenophon wrote an \"Apology\" concerning the death of Socrates. The two writers seem more concerned about answering questions that arose after the trial than about the actual charges. In particular, Xenophon and Plato are concerned with the failures of Socrates to defend himself. The Socrates that Xenophon portrayed was different from Plato’s in multiple respects. Xenophon asserts that Socrates dealt with his prosecution in an exceedingly arrogant manner, or at least was perceived to have spoken arrogantly. Conversely, while not omitting it completely, Plato worked to temper that arrogance in his own \"Apology\". Xenophon framed Socrates’ defense, which both men admit was not prepared at all, not as failure to effectively argue his side, but as striving for death even in the light of unconvincing charges. As Danzig interprets it, convincing the jury to condemn him even on unconvincing charges would be a rhetorical challenge worthy of the great persuader. Xenophon uses this interpretation as justification for Socrates’ arrogant stance and conventional failure. By contrast, Plato does not go so far as to claim that Socrates actually desired death, but seems to argue that Socrates was attempting to demonstrate a higher moral standard and teach a lesson, although his defence failed by conventional standards. This places Socrates in a higher moral position than his prosecutors, a typical Platonic example of absolving \"Socrates from blame in every conceivable way.\"\n\nAlthough Xenophon claims to have been present at the \"Symposium\", this is impossible as he was only a young boy at the date which he proposes it occurred. And again, Xenophon was not present at the trial of Socrates, having been on campaign in Anatolia and Mesopotamia. Thus he puts into the latter’s mouth what he would have thought him to say. It seems that Xenophon wrote his \"Apology\" and \"Memorabilia\" as defences of his former teacher, not to explain Socrates' relationship to the actual charges incurred.\n\nXenophon's standing as a political philosopher has been defended in recent times by Leo Strauss, who devoted a considerable part of his philosophic analysis to the works of Xenophon, returning to the high judgment of Xenophon as a thinker expressed by Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 3rd Earl of Shaftesbury, Michel de Montaigne, Montesquieu, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Johann Joachim Winckelmann, Niccolò Machiavelli, Francis Bacon, John Milton, Jonathan Swift, Benjamin Franklin, and John Adams.\n\nXenophon’s lessons on leadership have been reconsidered for their modern-day value. Jennifer O’Flannery holds that \"discussions of leadership and civic virtue should include the work of Xenophon ... on public education for public service.\" The \"Cyropaedia\", in outlining Cyrus as an ideal leader having mastered the qualities of \"education, equality, consensus, justice and service to state,\" is the work that she suggests be used as a guide or example for those striving to be leaders (see mirrors for princes). The linking of moral code and education is an especially pertinent quality subscribed to Cyrus that O’Flannery believes is in line with modern perceptions of leadership.\n\nXenophon’s entire classical corpus is extant. The following list of his works exhibits the extensive breadth of genres in which Xenophon wrote.\n\n\n\n\n\nThese works were probably written by Xenophon when he was living in Scillus. His days were likely spent in relative leisure here, and he wrote these treatises about the sorts of activities he spent time on.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "287876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=287876", "title": "Zionist entity", "text": "Zionist entity\n\nZionist entity (, ) is a phrase used by some Arabs and Muslims as a pejorative for Israel, via its relationship to Zionism. Some commentators, including Getzel M. Cohen, have noted that many Arab and Palestinian spokespeople have stopped calling the State of Israel by its name and have reverted to the expression 'the Zionist entity'. The expression \"Zionist regime\" is also seen.\n\nThe term is described as a means of expressing hostility towards Israel, refusing to acknowledge its existence, and denying its legitimacy or right to exist. Virginia Q. Tilley argues that the term implies condemnation of the idea of a Jewish state, but not necessarily of a Jewish presence. Matthew Gray writes that the term denies Israel the status of a \"state\", and emphasizes Israel's Zionist philosophy. Its use by Arab state media and leaders, even though other terms are equally \"politically useful\", \"reinforces the state's anti-Israel posture and the perception of Israel as a sinister threat\". Describing it as \"derogatory, indirect language\", Darrell Jodock states its intent is to \"deny Israel any place in the family of nations\". Referring to it as a \"common epithet\", Eric Sundquist indicates that it \"echoed the Arab view, repeated in the core doctrine of the PLO, that Israel was no state at all but an illegal colonialist excrescence\".\n\nBefore 1967, \"Zionist entity\" was the standard term used by Arabs and the Arab media to refer to Israel, and was particularly popular in official broadcasts of Egypt, Syria, and Jordan during the 1960s and '70s. The use of this term has persisted since then in Egyptian newspapers, the state-controlled press of Syria, Lebanon's \"Al-Manar\", and the Jordanian media. It is also the only term for Israel used on Radio Méditerranée, a French radio station with a daily audience of around 600,000 \"mainly French people of Arab descent\".\n\nThe phrase \"Zionist entity\" is used by some Arab states, and by \"politicians and intellectuals throughout the Arab world\". Lutz Edzard describes it as \"the traditional Arabic political term for Israel\", stating it is used in Arabic (particularly Iraqi) international documents. Describing its use in Jordan, Joseph Nevo includes it as part of \"Arab rhetoric and its traditional reluctance to use the term 'Israel'\". Middle East journalist Barbara Victor writes that when she went to Tripoli in 1986 to interview Muammar Gaddafi, it was illegal to use any term except \"Zionist entity\" to refer to Israel. It has been used regularly at the United Nations, by (among others) Libya, Syria, Iraq, Yemen, and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation. It is also used by Iran, and by groups such as Hezbollah, al-Quds Brigades, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority, and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). Use by the latter became \"less prominent\" in the late 1980s after the Camp David Accords and PLO recognition of Israel, but has since become common again.\n\nIn his book \"After the Last Sky: Palestinian Lives\", Edward Said writes that the one of the differentiators between Arab citizens of Israel and other Palestinians was that the former referred to Israel \"as a real country, rather than 'the Zionist entity'\". In a later essay he described the phrase's use by Arabs as \"a foolish and wasteful policy\".\n\n"}
