{"id": "55026453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55026453", "title": "2017 Northern India riots", "text": "2017 Northern India riots\n\nOn 25 August 2017, widespread rioting in northern India broke out after Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, the religious leader of Dera Sacha Sauda, was convicted of rape. The riots began in Panchkula and later spread to other parts of the northern Indian states of Haryana,Punjab,Uttar Pradesh and the capital, New Delhi. At least 41 people were killed, the majority of them in Panchkula, where 32 people were allegedly killed by police gunfire. More than 300 others were injured.\n\nSince 23 August 2017, parts of Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh had been under a security lockdown as 200,000 supporters of Ram Rahim amassed in Panchkula ahead of the verdict. A heavy contingent of security was deployed for the verdict including 97 CRPF companies; 16 Rapid Action Force; 37 Sashastra Seema Bal; 12 Indo-Tibetan Border Police and 21 Border Security Force companies. Another 10 companies were kept on standby.\n\nThe authorities had suspended internet services for 48 hours and Section 144 of the Indian Penal Code (prohibiting an assembly of more than four people) was imposed in Sri Ganganagar, Rajasthan (Ram Rahim's birth-village) in light of the expected verdict. Electricity was cut in a few residential areas in Panchkula as a precautionary measure.\n\nOn 25 August 2017, around 15:00 (IST), a special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Panchkula, Haryana, delivered its verdict in a 2002 sexual assault case of two sadhvis (female followers) of Dera Sacha Sauda (DSS). The court found the DSS chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh — known as \"the guru of bling\"  — guilty of rape. The sentence was scheduled to be pronounced on 28 August 2017. He faced a minimum of seven years' imprisonment. Before the verdict, Ram Rahim appealed to his followers to remain calm, after having made the 250 km (156 mi) journey from the sect's headquarters in Sirsa to Panchkula in a 100-vehicle convoy.\n\nSoon afterwards, Ram Rahim's 'Z+ security cover' was withdrawn. He was one of only 36 people in India under that level of government-provided security cover. Ram Rahim was later taken into judicial custody and was reportedly moved to the Western Command Headquarters in Chandimandir Cantonment. Later, he was flown by helicopter to a jail in the nearby town of Rohtak. After the verdict, Ram Rahim supporters were evicted from Panchkula and Chandigarh. Police and paramilitary forces used tear gas shelling in Sector 3, Panchkula, to control Dera supporters which led to clashes.\n\nFollowing the conviction his supporters went on a rampage setting fire to vehicles, government buildings, petrol stations, media vans and railway stations. Ram Rahim's followers took to streets brandishing sticks and throwing rocks upon hearing news of his conviction.\n\nAccording to an Indian Railways spokesman, two railway stations were burnt in (Malout and Balluanna) Punjab and two empty train coaches of Rewa Express were set on fire in Delhi's Anand Vihar station. The arsonists also attempted to set fire to Dagru railway station. PTC News reporters were attacked and a video journalist has gone missing since the assault. The rioters attacked the NDTV channel's OB Van and injured an engineer. An India Today TV crew was attacked and its cameraman injured in Sirsa. Its OB van was also attacked by rioters in Panchkula. An Income Tax Department's building and two police vehicles were set on fire in Mansa, Punjab. Twenty-eight vehicles were burnt in Panchkula, including some belonging to the government. A telephone exchange was torched by the protesters in Chananwal in Punjab's Barnala district. A \"sewa kendra\" was set ablaze near Faridkot. A Vita milk plant and a power substation were damaged in Sirsa.\n\nAccording to Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, 7 people from Punjab died in the clashes. He further stated that in Punjab, 52 minor incidents took place barring the incident when a railway station was burnt. At least 32 people were killed in Panchkula and six others were killed in Sirsa in India's northern Haryana state. More than 300 people were injured in the violence after police and paramilitary forces fired on charged mobs. Police fired tear gas, water cannons and live ammunition while trying to disperse the mobs in Panchkula and near DSS ashram in Sirsa.\n\nBy 7:00 pm (local time), the violence subsided in Panchkula. According to Haryana's Director General of Police, some 10,000 followers of Ram Rahim remained holed up in the DSS headquarters, where security forces were kept on \"standby\".\n\nCurfews were imposed in several areas of Chandigarh city and across the state of Punjab. A number of towns were placed under curfew including; Panchkula, Sirsa, Kaithal, Faridpur and Malout. The border between the states of Haryana and Punjab was sealed. By around 9:55 pm (local time), curfew had been imposed in 8 districts of Punjab namely — Mansa, Bathinda, Firozpur, Faridkot, Fazilka, Patiala, Barnala and Sangrur.\n\nThe Indian army was called in and about 600 soldiers were deployed in the city of Panchkula to help restore order. According to the Indian army sources, six columns of army personnel were deployed in Panchkula and two columns in Sirsa in Haryana. While, one column of army personnel was deployed in Punjab’s Mansa and another column in Mukhtsar.\n\nSection 144 was imposed in parts of Delhi, and in towns of Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Noida and Ghaziabad. By around 8:00 pm (local time), Section 144 was also imposed in Sri Ganganagar and Hanumangarh districts of northern Rajasthan. Until 10:00 pm (local time), Section 144 had been imposed in 9 districts of Uttar Pradesh — Meerut, Saharanpur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Ghaziabad, Noida, Bulandshahar, Bagpat and Hapur. It was also imposed in eleven districts of Delhi including in New Delhi till 8 September 2017 and in Uttarakhand's Nainital.\n\nFollowing the violence in Panchkula, almost 250 trains to Rohtak Junction were cancelled. Mobile internet and data services remained suspended in Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh for the next 72 hours. The deputy commissioner in Panchkula requested the district Red Cross Society to send in their trained volunteers. All Delhi Metro stations were kept on alert. The Delhi Petrol Pump Association announced closure of at least 12 fuel stations near the Haryana border in Delhi as a preemptive measure. Delhi Transport Corporation suspended its bus services to the National Capital Region due to incidents of arson. The Delhi–Lahore Bus service was suspended as well. Bagpat district Magistrate directed all schools in the region to remain closed on 26 August.\n\nOn 26 August 2017, police sealed the nine congregation centres of the Dera Sacha Sauda in the Kurukshetra district and recovered 2,500 wooden sticks, some sharp-edged weapons and 2.5 litres (0.55 imp gal; 0.66 US gal) of kerosene during the search operation.\n\nThree people were arrested in connection with arson in Delhi. According to the Advocate General of Punjab 19 rioters had been arrested including Gurdev Singh, a state-level office bearer of Dera Sacha Sauda. According to a Haryana administrator, more than 500 people had been arrested. According to a Haryana police official, more than 1,000 of the guru's supporters had been detained in Panchkula on charges of arson and destruction of public property. After the rioting spread, a court ordered the seizure of the DSS ashram and other properties in compensation for the widespread destruction of public and private property.\n\nAccording to Haryana's Chief Secretary, D. S. Dhesi, Haryana Police registered two sedition cases when \"one AK 47, one mouser, five pistols and two rifles\" were recovered from two vehicles that were part of the convoy accompanying Ram Rahim. According to the Haryana Advocate General, twenty-four vehicles were seized and ten petrol bombs were also recovered. A special hearing was held in the Punjab and Haryana High Court for monitoring the law and order situation in the region and other related issues following the riots.\n\nAccording to Secretary Dhesi, all the 36 people killed on 25 August were Dera Sacha Sauda followers, who were killed by police gunfire and stampedes. Some lawyers objected to use of lethal bullets by police and filed a petition to request use of pellets to disperse the protesting mobs. But the High Court bench rejected the plea because mobs armed with petrol bombs and other weapons had created a war-like situation.\n\nThe President of India, Ram Nath Kovind tweeted, \"Violence and damage to public property after court verdict is highly condemnable; appeal to all citizens to maintain peace\". Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi condemned the violence and urged \"everyone to maintain peace\". While reviewing the situation with the National Security Advisor and the Home Secretary, he asked officials to \"work round the clock to restore normalcy and provide all possible assistance that is required\".\n\nChief Minister of Haryana, Manohar Lal Khattar (BJP) admitted that there were lapses but asserted appropriate action was being taken. According to Chief Minister of Punjab Amarinder Singh, the fault in this mayhem lay with allowing people to gather, adding that \"this sort of reaction was anticipated\".\n"}
{"id": "16939733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16939733", "title": "Adymus", "text": "Adymus\n\nAdymus or Adymos may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "8116910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8116910", "title": "Arnold Dashefsky", "text": "Arnold Dashefsky\n\nArnold Dashefsky, born in 1942, is a professor at the University of Connecticut who has written several books on the topics relating to Jewish ethnicity, culture, ideologies, among others.\n\nDashefsky is currently director of the North American Jewish Data Bank.\n\nOne of Dashefsky's key theses is that Jewish identity is taken for granted in populations, such as Israel where Jews make up a majority of the population. Furthermore, he has asserted that the number of Jews in the United States is roughly the same as the number of Jews in Israel. Hence, he feels that Jewish identity should be no less strong in either nation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34267361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34267361", "title": "Aum Shinrikyo", "text": "Aum Shinrikyo\n\n, formerly , is a Japanese doomsday cult founded by Shoko Asahara in 1984. It carried out the deadly Tokyo subway sarin attack in 1995 and was found to have been responsible for another smaller sarin attack the previous year.\n\nThe group never confessed. They claim that those who carried out attacks did so secretly, without being known to other executives and ordinary believers. Asahara broadcast his singing, insisting on his innocence through a radio broadcast on a signal they purchased in Russia and directed toward Japan. \n\nOn 6 July 2018, after exhausting all appeals, Asahara and six other followers were executed by Japan, as punishment for the 1995 attacks and other crimes. On 26 July 2018, the remaining 6 followers on death row were executed by Japan.\n\nAum Shinrikyo, which split into Aleph and Hikari no Wa in 2007, has been formally designated a terrorist organization by several countries, including the European Union, Russia, Canada, Kazakhstan, and the United States. \n\nJapan's Public Security Investigative Agency considers Aleph and Hikari no Wa to be branches of a \"dangerous religion\" and it announced in January 2015 that they would remain under surveillance for three more years. The Japanese government ended surveillance of Hikari no Wa in 2017, but continued to keep Aleph under watch. Shoko Asahara and several of his followers were hanged in 2018 for their involvement in the 1995 attacks.\n\nAum Shinrikyo/Aleph is a syncretic belief system that draws upon Asahara's idiosyncratic interpretations of elements of early Indian Buddhism and Tibetan Buddhism, as well as Hinduism, taking Shiva as the main image of worship and incorporating millennialist ideas from the Christian Book of Revelation, Yoga, and the writings of Nostradamus. Its founder, Chizuo Matsumoto, claimed that he sought to restore \"original Buddhism\".\nIn 1992, Matsumoto, who had changed his name to Shoko Asahara, published a foundational book, declaring himself to be \"Christ\", Japan's only fully enlightened master, as well as identifying himself as the \"Lamb of God\".\n\nAsahara's purported mission was to take upon himself the sins of the world, and he claimed he could transfer spiritual power to his followers and ultimately take away their sins and bad deeds. While many discount Aum Shinrikyo's claims of Buddhist characteristics and his affiliations with Buddhism, scholars often refer to it as an offshoot of Japanese Buddhism, and this was how the movement generally defined and saw itself.\n\nAsahara outlined a doomsday prophecy, which included a third world war instigated by the United States. \n\nAccording to Robert Jay Lifton, an American psychiatrist and author:[Asahara] described a final conflict culminating in a nuclear 'Armageddon', borrowing the term from the Book of Revelation \" \n\nHumanity would end, except for the elite few who joined Aum. Aum's mission was not only to spread the word of \"salvation\", but also to survive these \"End Times\". Asahara predicted that Armageddon would occur in 1997. Kaplan notes that in his lectures, Shoko Asahara referred to the United States as \"The Beast\" from the Book of Revelation, predicting it would eventually attack Japan. \n\nArthur Goldwag, author of a book on conspiracies and secret societies, characterizes Asahara as one who \"saw dark conspiracies everywhere promulgated by Jews, Freemasons, the Dutch, the British royal family, and rival Japanese religions\".\n\nIn the opinion of Daniel A. Metraux, Aum Shinrikyo justified its violence through its own unique interpretation of Buddhist ideas and doctrines, such as the Buddhist concepts of \"Mappō\" and \"Shōhō\". Aum claimed that by bringing about the end of the world, they would restore \"Shōhō\". Furthermore, Lifton believes, Asahara \"interpreted the Tibetan Buddhist concept of \"powa\" in order to claim that by killing someone contrary to the group's aims, they were preventing them from accumulating bad karma and thus saving them\".\n\nThe name , usually rendered in English as \"Aum Supreme Truth\", derives from the Sanskrit syllable \"Aum\", used to represent the universe, followed by the Japanese \"Shinrikyo\" (meaning, roughly, \"Teaching of Truth\") written in kanji. (In Japanese, kanji are used to write both words that are originally Japanese as well as Sino-xenic words, but they are not usually used to transcribe those which are borrowed directly from exotic foreign languages.) \n\nIn 2000, the organization changed its name to \"Aleph\" (a reference to the first letter of the Phoenician, Hebrew, and Arabic alphabets), and it also replaced its logo.\n\nThe movement was founded by Shoko Asahara in his one-bedroom apartment in Tokyo's Shibuya ward in 1984, starting off as a yoga and meditation class known as and steadily grew in the following years. It gained the official status as a religious organization in 1989 and attracted a considerable number of graduates from Japan's elite universities, thus being dubbed a \"religion for the elite\".\n\nAlthough Aum was considered controversial in Japan, it had yet to be associated with serious crimes. It was during this period that Asahara became obsessed with Biblical prophecies. Aum's public relations activities included publishing comics and animated cartoons that attempted to tie its religious ideas to popular anime and manga themes, including space missions, powerful weapons, world conspiracies, and quest for ultimate truth. Aum published several magazines including \"Vajrayana Sacca\" and \"Enjoy Happiness\", adopting a somewhat missionary attitude.\n\nIsaac Asimov's science fiction \"Foundation Trilogy\" was referenced \"depicting as it does an elite group of spiritually evolved scientists forced to go underground during an age of barbarism so as to prepare themselves for the moment...when they will emerge to rebuild civilization\". Lifton posited that Aum's publications used Christian and Buddhist ideas to impress what he considered to be the more shrewd and educated Japanese who were not attracted to boring, purely traditional sermons.\n\nIn private, both Asahara and his top disciples reportedly continued their humble lifestyles, the only exception being the armored Mercedes-Benz gifted by a wealthy follower. In rather rare footage, Asahara is seen on the street in front of a large clown doll resembling himself, smiling happily.\n\nAdvertising and recruitment activities, dubbed the \"Aum Salvation plan\", included claims of curing physical illnesses with health improvement techniques, realizing life goals by improving intelligence and positive thinking, and concentrating on what was important at the expense of leisure. This was to be accomplished by practising ancient teachings, accurately translated from original Pali sutras (these three were referred to as \"threefold salvation\"). These efforts resulted in Aum becoming one of the fastest-growing religious groups in Japan's history.\n\nDavid E. Kaplan and Andrew Marshall, in their 1996 book, \"The Cult at the End of the World: The Terrifying Story of the Aum Doomsday Cult, from the Subways of Tokyo to the Nuclear Arsenals of Russia\", claim that its practices remained secret. Initiation rituals, assert the authors of the book, often involved the use of hallucinogens, such as LSD. Religious practices often involved extremely ascetic practices claimed to be \"yoga\". These included everything from renunciants being hung upside down to being given shock therapy.\n\nThe cult started attracting controversy in the late 1980s with accusations of deception of recruits, and of holding cult members against their will and forcing members to donate money; it murdered a cult member who tried to leave in February 1989. \n\nIn October 1989, the group's negotiations with Tsutsumi Sakamoto, an anti-cult lawyer threatening a lawsuit against them which could potentially bankrupt the group, failed. In the same month, Sakamoto recorded an interview for a talk show on the Japanese TV station TBS. The network then had the interview secretly shown to the group without notifying Sakamoto, intentionally breaking protection of sources. The group then pressured TBS to cancel the broadcast. The following month Sakamoto, his wife and his child went missing from their home in Yokohama. \n\nThe police were unable to resolve the case at the time, although some of his colleagues publicly voiced their suspicions of the group. It was not until after the 1995 Tokyo attack that they were found to have been murdered and their bodies dumped by cult members.\n\nKaplan and Marshall allege in their book that Aum was also connected with such activities as extortion. The group, authors report, \"commonly took patients into its hospitals and then forced them to pay exorbitant medical bills\".\n\nThe cult is known to have considered assassinations of several individuals critical of the cult, such as the heads of Buddhist sects Soka Gakkai and The Institute for Research in Human Happiness. After cartoonist Yoshinori Kobayashi began satirizing the cult, he was included on Aum's assassination list. An assassination attempt was made on Kobayashi in 1993.\n\nIn July 1993, cult members sprayed large amounts of liquid containing \"Bacillus anthracis\" spores from a cooling tower on the roof of Aum Shinrikyo´s Tokyo headquarters. However, their plan to cause an anthrax epidemic failed. The attack resulted in a large number of complaints about bad odors but no infections.\n\nAt the end of 1993, the cult started secretly manufacturing the nerve agent sarin and later VX gas. They also attempted to manufacture 1,000 automatic rifles but only managed to make one. Aum tested its sarin on sheep at Banjawarn Station, a remote pastoral property in Western Australia, killing 29 sheep. Both sarin and VX were then used in several assassinations (and attempts) over 1994–95.\n\nOn the night of 27 June 1994, the cult carried out a chemical weapons attack against civilians when they released sarin in the central Japanese city of Matsumoto, Nagano. With the help of a converted refrigerator truck, members of the cult released a cloud of sarin which floated near the homes of judges who were overseeing a lawsuit concerning a real-estate dispute which was predicted to go against the cult. This Matsumoto incident killed eight and harmed 500 more. Police investigations focused only on an innocent local resident, Yoshiyuki Kouno, and failed to implicate the cult at the time. It was only after the Tokyo subway attack that Aum Shinrikyo was discovered to be behind the Matsumoto sarin attack.\n\nIn December 1994 and January 1995, Masami Tsuchiya of Aum Shinrikyo synthesized 100 to 200 grams of VX which was used to attack three persons. Two persons were injured and a 28-year-old man was killed. He is believed to be the first fully documented victim of VX. \n\nThe VX victim, whom Shoko Asahara had suspected was a spy, was attacked at 7:00 a.m. on 12 December 1994, on the street in Osaka by Tomomitsu Niimi and another Aum member, who sprinkled the nerve agent on his neck. He chased them for about before collapsing, dying 10 days later without coming out of a deep coma. Doctors in the hospital suspected at the time he had been poisoned with an organophosphate pesticide. But the cause of death was pinned down only after cult members arrested for the subway attack in Tokyo in March 1995 confessed to the killing. Ethyl methylphosphonate, methylphosphonic acid, and diisopropyl-2-(methylthio) ethylamine were later found in the body of the victim. Unlike the cases for sarin (Matsumoto incident and Sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway), VX was not used for mass murder.\n\nIn February 1995, several cult members kidnapped Kiyoshi Kariya, a 69-year-old brother of a member who had escaped, from a Tokyo street and took him to a compound in Kamikuishiki near Mount Fuji, where he was killed. His corpse was destroyed in a microwave-powered incinerator and the remnants disposed of in Lake Kawaguchi. Before Kariya was abducted, he had been receiving threatening phone calls demanding to know the whereabouts of his sister, and he had left a note saying, \"If I disappear, I was abducted by Aum Shinrikyo\".\n\nPolice made plans to simultaneously raid cult facilities across Japan in March 1995. Prosecutors alleged Asahara was tipped off about this and that he ordered the Tokyo subway attack to divert police.\n\nOn the morning of 20 March 1995, Aum members released a binary chemical weapon, most closely chemically similar to sarin, in a coordinated attack on five trains in the Tokyo subway system, killing 13 commuters, seriously injuring 54 and affecting 980 more. Some estimates claim as many as 6,000 people were injured by the sarin. It is difficult to obtain exact numbers since many victims are reluctant to come forward. \n\nProsecutors allege that Asahara was tipped off by an insider about planned police raids on cult facilities and ordered an attack in central Tokyo to divert police attention away from the group. The attack evidently backfired, and police conducted huge simultaneous raids on cult compounds across the country.\n\nOver the next week, the full scale of Aum's activities was revealed for the first time. At the cult's headquarters in Kamikuishiki on the foot of Mount Fuji, police found explosives, chemical weapons, and a Russian Mil Mi-17 military helicopter. While the finding of biological warfare agents such as anthrax and Ebola cultures was reported, those claims now appear to have been widely exaggerated. There were stockpiles of chemicals that could be used for producing enough sarin to kill four million people.\n\nPolice also found laboratories to manufacture drugs such as LSD, methamphetamine, and a crude form of truth serum, a safe containing millions of U.S. dollars in cash and gold, and cells, many still containing prisoners. During the raids, Aum issued statements claiming that the chemicals were for fertilizers. Over the next six weeks, over 150 cult members were arrested for a variety of offenses. The media was stationed outside Aum's Tokyo headquarters on Komazawa Dori in Aoyama for months after the attack and arrests waiting for action and to get images of the cult's other members. On March 30, 1995, Takaji Kunimatsu, chief of the National Police Agency, was shot four times near his house in Tokyo and was seriously wounded. While many suspected Aum involvement in the shooting, the \"Sankei Shimbun\" reported that Hiroshi Nakamura is suspected of the crime, but nobody has been charged.\n\nOn 23 April 1995, Hideo Murai, the head of Aum's Ministry of Science, was stabbed to death outside the cult's Tokyo headquarters amidst a crowd of about 100 reporters, in front of cameras. The man responsible, a Korean member of Yamaguchi-gumi, was arrested and eventually convicted of the murder. His motive remains unknown. On the evening of 5 May, a burning paper bag was discovered in a toilet in Tokyo's busy Shinjuku station. Upon examination it was revealed that it was a hydrogen cyanide device which, had it not been extinguished in time, would have released enough gas into the ventilation system to potentially kill 10,000 commuters. On July 4, several undetonated cyanide devices were found at other locations in the Tokyo subway.\n\nDuring this time, numerous cult members were arrested for various offenses, but arrests of the most senior members on the charge of the subway gassing had not yet taken place. In June, an individual unrelated to Aum had launched a copycat attack by hijacking All Nippon Airways Flight 857, a Boeing 747 bound for Hakodate from Tokyo. The hijacker claimed to be an Aum member in possession of sarin and plastic explosives, but these claims were ultimately found to be false.\n\nAsahara was finally found hiding within a wall of a cult building known as \"The 6th Satian\" in the Kamikuishiki complex on 16 May and was arrested. On the same day, the cult mailed a parcel bomb to the office of Yukio Aoshima, the governor of Tokyo, blowing off the fingers of his secretary's hand. Asahara was initially charged with 23 counts of murder and 16 other offenses. The trial, dubbed \"the trial of the century\" by the press, ruled Asahara guilty of masterminding the attack and sentenced him to death. The indictment was appealed unsuccessfully. A number of senior members accused of participation, such as Masami Tsuchiya, also received death sentences.\n\nThe reasons why a small circle of mostly senior Aum members committed atrocities and the extent of personal involvement by Asahara remain unclear, although several theories have attempted to explain these events. In response to the prosecution's charge that Asahara ordered the subway attacks to distract authorities, the defense maintained that Asahara was not aware of events, pointing to his deteriorating health. Shortly after his arrest, Asahara abandoned his post as the organization's leader, and since then has maintained silence, refusing to communicate even with lawyers and family members.\n\nOn 21 June 1995, Asahara acknowledged that in January 1994 he ordered the killing of a sect member, Kotaro Ochida, a pharmacist at an Aum hospital. Ochida, who tried to escape from a sect compound, was held down and strangled by another Aum member who was allegedly told that he too would be killed if he did not strangle Ochida. On 10 October 1995, Aum Shinrikyo was ordered stripped of its official status as a \"religious legal entity\" and was declared bankrupt in early 1996. However, the group continues to operate under the constitutional guarantee of freedom of religion, funded by a successful computer business and donations, and under strict surveillance. Attempts to ban the group altogether under the 1952 Subversive Activities Prevention Law were rejected by the Public Security Examination Commission in January 1997.\n\nThe group underwent a number of transformations in the aftermath of Asahara's arrest and trial. For a brief time, Asahara's two preteen sons officially replaced him as guru. It re-grouped under the new name \"Aleph\" in February 2000. It announced a change in doctrine: religious texts related to controversial Vajrayana Buddhist doctrines and Bible were removed. The group apologized to the victims of the sarin gas attack and established a special compensation fund. Provocative publications and activities that alarmed society are no longer published.\n\nFumihiro Joyu, one of the few senior leaders of the group under Asahara who did not face serious charges, became official head of the organization in 1999. Kōki Ishii, a legislator who formed an anti-Aum committee in the National Diet in 1999, was murdered in 2002. In August 2003, a woman believed to be an ex-Aum Shinrikyo member took refuge in North Korea via China.\n\nFor over 15 years, only three fugitives were being actively sought. At 11:50 p.m. on 31 December 2011, Makoto Hirata surrendered himself to the police and was arrested on suspicion of being involved in the 1995 abduction of Kiyoshi Kariya, a non-member who had died during an Aum kidnapping and interrogation. On 3 June 2012, police captured Naoko Kikuchi, the second fugitive, acting on a tip from local residents. \n\nActing on information from the capture of Kikuchi, including recent photographs showing a modified appearance, the last remaining fugitive, Katsuya Takahashi, was captured on June 15, 2012. He is said to have been the driver in the Tokyo gas attack and was caught in Tokyo, having been on the run for 17 years.\n\nOn July 6, 2018, Asahara and six other Aum Shinrikyo members were executed by hanging. Japan's Justice Minister Yōko Kamikawa stated that the crimes \"plunged people, not only in Japan but in other countries as well, into deadly fear and shook society to its core.\" Amnesty International criticized use of the death penalty in the case. While executions are rare in Japan, they have public support according to surveys. There were 13 members on death row at the time:\n\nAum Shinrikyo members executed on 6 July 2018:\n\nThe six remaining Aum Shinrikyo members were executed on 26 July 2018.\n\nShoko Asahara's ashes will be collected by his youngest daughter according to his will. She urged her relatives and cult members to \"put an end to the Aum and stop hating society\". The ashes will be kept at the detention center for the time being for fears of reprisals from other elements of the cult.\n\nAccording to a June 2005 report by the National Police Agency, Aleph had approximately 1,650 members, of whom 650 lived communally in compounds. The group operated 26 facilities in 17 prefectures, and about 120 residential facilities. An article in the \"Mainichi Shimbun\" newspaper on 11 September 2002 showed that the Japanese public still mistrusts Aleph, and compounds are usually surrounded by protest banners from local residents.\n\nIn January 2000, the group was placed under surveillance for a period of three years under an anti-Aum law, in which the group is required to submit a list of members and details of assets to the authorities. \n\nIn January 2003, Japan's Public Security Intelligence Agency received permission to extend the surveillance for another three years, as they found evidence which suggested that the group still revered Asahara. According to the Religious News Blog report issued in April 2004, the authorities still considered the group \"a threat to society\".\n\nIn January 2006, the Public Security Intelligence Agency (PSIA) was able to extend the surveillance for another three years. Despite the doctrinal changes and banning of Vajrayana texts, the PSIA advocates increased surveillance; it periodically expresses concerns that the Vajrayana texts remain in use and that danger remains while Asahara remains leader. Aleph leaders carefully insert passages rejecting the Vajrayana texts into almost everything they say or write, including karaoke songs, to publicly distance Aleph from Vajrayana.\n\nOn 15 September 2006, Shoko Asahara lost his final appeal against the death penalty. The following day Japanese police raided the offices of Aleph in order to \"prevent any illegal activities by cult members in response to the confirmation of Asahara's death sentence\". Thirteen cult members were eventually sentenced to death.\n\nOn 8 March 2007, Fumihiro Joyu, former Aum Shinrikyo spokesman and head of Aum's Moscow operation, formally announced a long-expected split. Joyu's group, called \"Hikari no Wa\" (\"The Circle of Light\"), claims to be committed to uniting science and religion and creating \"the new science of the human mind\", having previously aimed to move the group away from its criminal history and toward its spiritual roots.\n\nIn April 2011, the Public Security Intelligence Agency stated that Aum had about 1,500 members. In July 2011 the cult reported its membership as 1,030. The group was reportedly active in trying to recruit new members via social media and proselytizing on college campuses.\n\nJapan's Public Security Examination Commission announced in January 2015 that Aum Shinrikyo's two spinoffs would remain under surveillance for three more years starting 1 February 2015.\n\nIn 2014, \"The Japan Times\" alleged that \"good looks and commitment to a cause\", demonstrated by Aleph, \"inspire a new generation of admirers\". Dissatisfaction with society and low degrees of success in life make them \"identify with the cult\" and \"adore the cultists as if they were pop idols\".\n\nOn 5 April 2016, the Investigative Committee of Russia announced it opened a criminal case against Aum Shinrikyo followers and that its investigators, along with Federal Security Service (FSB) forces, were conducting raids in Moscow and Saint Petersburg to find them and confiscate literature, religious items and electronic information. On 20 September 2016, the Russian government banned Aum Shinrikyo in the country, declaring it a terrorist organization.\n\nIn November 2017, Japanese police raided five offices of Aleph in an investigation into the group's recruiting practices after a woman paid tens of thousands of yen for study sessions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18087980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18087980", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Uganda", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Uganda\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916–1917; these letters were compiled together in the book \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". The eighth and twelfth of the tablets mentioned Africa and were written on April 19, 1916, and February 15, 1917, respectively. Publication however was delayed in the United States until 1919—after the end of the First World War and the Spanish flu. The tablets were translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in \"Star of the West\" magazine on December 12, 1919. `Abdu'l-Bahá mentions Bahá'ís traveling \"…especially from America to Europe, Africa, Asia and Australia, and travel through Japan and China. Likewise, from Germany teachers and believers may travel to the continents of America, Africa, Japan and China; in brief, they may travel through all the continents and islands of the globe\" and \" …the anthem of the oneness of the world of humanity may confer a new life upon all the children of men, and the tabernacle of universal peace be pitched on the apex of America; thus Europe and Africa may become vivified with the breaths of the Holy Spirit, this world may become another world, the body politic may attain to a new exhilaration….\"\n\nAn early instance of contact between Uganda and the Bahá'í Faith came in September 1946 when Ugandan Dr. Ernest Kalibala, one of Uganda's first PhDs then associated with the UN, gave a talk at the New York Bahá'í Center. Particular plans to bring the religion to Uganda began in 1950 involving the cooperation of American, British, Egyptian, and Persian Bahá'í communities and reached a level of coordination and detail that materials were translated into languages widely used in Africa before pioneers reached Africa. On August 3, 1951 Mr. and Mrs. Músá Banání, Mrs. Violette and Mr. Ali Nakhjavani, of Iran, with their baby daughter Bahiyyih, and Mr. Philip Hainsworth arrived in Kampala. Banání was an adult convert to the religion during World War I from a Jewish background. After receiving the news that Hand of the Cause Louis George Gregory — Hands of the Cause are a select group of Bahá'ís who achieved a distinguished rank in service to the religion — had died previously on July 31, a commemorative meeting for Gregory was held in Kampala at which the five pioneers and Marguerite Preston (from Kenya) were joined by twelve Africans. In October an observance of the birth of the Báb was the first to be held in the home of a Bugandan citizen of Uganda, with prayers said in Luganda. In December, the first two native Ugandans had converted to the Bahá'í Faith — Fred Bigabwa (Mutoro tribe) and Chrispin Kajubi (Buganda tribe). While Banání was on pilgrimage War War II veteran Enoch Olinga (of Iteso tribe) who had been attending classes taught by Nakhjavani in Kampala was the third Ugandan to become a Bahá'í and swore off alcohol though his alcoholism had already cost him his government job.\n\nThe first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly in the country was elected in April 1952 in Kampala. The members of the assembly were Fred Bigabwa, Chrispin Kajubi, Peter Musoke, Enoch Olinga, Mr and Mrs Músá Banání, Mr and Mrs Ali Nakhjavani and Philip Hainsworth. These were soon joined by American pioneers, Mary and Reginald (Rex) Collison, in about May. In early 1952, Músá Banání was also appointed as a Hand of the Cause. In the summer of 1952 the Bahá'ís bought the first center for hosting meetings. By October 1952 there were 55 members of the religion including Olinga's father, living in 12 different localities and representing 9 different tribes: Ganda, Gishu, Gwero, Kabarasi, Kakamega, Luo, Sega, Teso, Toro. Six of them were women. Eighteen were in Kampala and 26 in Teso country. Like Olinga other Bahá'ís effected a change in character when converting to the religion and giving up alcoholism. These joined the religion by conversion from Roman Catholic, Protestant and pagan backgrounds and the rural areas were organized into committees until Assemblies could be organized. In February 1953 the first inter-continental conference of four designated by the head of the religion was taking place in Kampala. On the program were Hands of the Cause (already appointed or not yet) Dorothy Beecher Baker, `Alí-Akbar Furútan, Ugo Giachery, Hermann Grossman, `Alí-Muhammad Varqá, George Townshend, and Dhikru'llah Khadem giving a wide variety of talks and classes across 7 days opened with a message from Shoghi Effendi read by Hand of the Cause Leroy Ioas. By April nine more assemblies were elected among a community of over two hundred ninety members of the religion, residing in twenty-five localities, and representative of twenty tribes. In June 1953 the American pioneers Mr. and Mrs. Rex Collison moved to Ruanda-Urundi from Kampala. In October 1953 Olinga went on to Cameroon and was honoured with the title Knight of Bahá'u'lláh.\n\nWide-scale growth in the religion across Sub-Saharan Africa was observed to begin in the 1950s and extend in the 1960s. After the conference in February 1953 Bill and Marguerite Sears arrived in September 1953 visiting from Johannesburg for an extended stay into October giving many classes and traveling to many villages. It was also during this time the first pioneer from Uganda went to Mwanza, Tanganyika. In 1954 Uganda had 500 Bahá'ís in 80 localities, including 13 Local Spiritual Assemblies, representing 30 tribes, and had dispatched 9 pioneers to other African locations. In 1955 there were over 800 Bahá'ís having just added seventeen assemblies. In 1956 Olinga was elected as Chairman of the North West regional Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly and the Ugandan Bahá'í community came under the newly formed regional National Spiritual Assembly of Central & Eastern Africa, of which Nakhjavani was the Chairman and the Ugandan community alone topped 1000 members. The other members of the regional assembly over Uganda were Philip Hainsworth, Hassan Sabri, Oloro Epyeruj, Aziz Yazdi, Jalal Nakhjavani, Tito Wanantsusit, Sylvester Okurut, and Max Kenyerezi. In early 1957 Olinga attended the laying of the foundation stone of the first Bahá'í House of Worship of Africa (which was in Uganda) and in the fall he was appointed a Hand of the Cause and Knight of Bahá'u'lláh Clare Gung, formerly of Germany, moved from Tanganyika to Uganda where she founded a multi-racial kindergarten nursery. Systems were initiated to deal with the rate of growth of the religion - weekend Bahá'í schools were set up for any Bahá'í who could attend and individuals who were judged to have a substantial understanding of the religion and were able to travel were selected for training as presenters who would then travel locally in their area to make presentations on many of the same themes. By the summer of 1957 13 weekend schools had been held. It was believed these schools lent impetus to the continued growth of the religion in the area by empowering local members of the religion and the schools were repeated in 1958. And the same year regional and local assemblies were registered with the civil government. In 1957 a lone Bahá'í, a member of the Tesa, Yokolamu Okello, reached the relatively remote and pagan region of Moroto in Karamoja and in 1958 the first spiritual assembly was formed there. Conversions to the Bahá'í Faith in Uganda even reached into the prisons where Shoghi Effendi, then head of the religion, responded to letters by encouraging the inmates to use their \"stumbled\" history not to become \"embittered or defeated\" but \"determined to make it a means of purifying your natures, improving your characters, and enabling you to become better citizens in the future.\" The quick growth of the religion in Uganda was attributed by Bahá'ís to the sincerity of their purpose and to the demonstrated lack of racial prejudice.\n\nIn 1958 the land for the temple had to be bought in the name of three African Ugandan Bahá'ís rather than an institution directly foreign or domestic. These Bahá'ís were Joseph Mbogo, Erisha Kiwanuka and Max Kanyerezi who held the land in trust. The Bahá'í House of Worship in Uganda, named as the Mother Temple of Africa, is situated on Kikaya Hill on the outskirts of Kampala. At the ceremony of the laying of the foundation stone in 1958 Hands of the Cause Ruhiyyih Khanum and Músá Banání presented material gifts for the building - some soil from the inner-most Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh and the fortress of Maku where the Báb was imprisoned. The building was designed by Mason Remey and the green dome is made of fixed mosaic tiles from Italy, the lower roof tiles are from Belgium, and the colored glass in the wall panels was brought from Germany. Nine massive columns, each two feet in diameter, support the great dome, itself forty-four feet in diameter at its base; while the two roofs are supported by two sets of twenty seven slightly smaller columns. The overall height is 127 ft., the internal diameter of the building is eighty four feet and the seating capacity is over 600. The inside of the dome is painted a pale blue; the rotunda, into which are set nine enormous windows and fifty-four small windows, all filled with green, amber and pale blue glass, is painted a brilliant white, while the columns and the lower walls are painted a very pale green. All this lends itself to an effect of lightness and airiness which is intensified by the large green and amber glass-filled grilles which stand on either side of the huge mvule doors.\n\nThe fifty-acre property includes the House of Worship, extensive gardens, a guest house, and an administrative center. In 1960 the Ugandan government built an access road out to the site of the temple and a Bugandan council of ministers came to see the building. Observances of Bahá'í Holy days are held and regular services are normally held about 4 pm on Sunday afternoons. By the end of 1965 an estimated 50,000 visitors had come to the temple. Both Hands of the Cause Enoch Olinga and Músá Banání are buried near the Temple.\n\nFestivities associated with the opening of the temple were wide-ranging through early 1961. The Ugandan government publication \"Uganda Argus\" covered the history and description of the temple in the January 1961 issue and interviews and stories ran on the Ugandan Broadcasting service on radio. Events on site began on the 13th with a unity feast with Hands of the Cause Musa Banani, John Robarts, Rahmatu'lláh Muhájir and Chairman of the regional assembly Ali Nakhkajvani and vice-chairman O]oro Epyeru giving talks. The temple was dedicated on 14th led by Hand of the Cause Ruhiyyih Khanum where there was a viewing of portraits of the Báb and Bahá'u'lláh. And the public inaugural service was held on the 15th. Over 1500 people attended. Among the Bahá'ís were some 225 African Bahá'ís from Uganda, Kenya, Tanganyika, Ruanda Urundi, Ethiopia, Northern Rhodesia, Swaziland, and South Africa; some 90 Persian Baha'is, sixty-two of whom flew from Tehran; the British national assembly, the mother assembly to that of Central and East Africa, sent one believer from each of its regions - England, Scotland and Wales, as well as one from Ireland; the American national assembly sent one of its members, Amos Gibson, himself a pioneer among the American Indian peoples. Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga was unable to attend due to political turmoil in Cameroon Olinga was attempting to help them with. A choir, especially selected from among Kampala's singers and directed by Peter Wingard of Makerere College sang music and readings offered were from the Old and New Testaments and the Qur'an, plus a number of prayers and readings from the Bahá'í writings in Arabic, Persian, Ateso, Swahili, Acholi, Luganda and English. Following the public meeting a reception was held for representatives of the Governor and the Kabaka of Buganda, together with the Mayor of Kampala at which Ruhiyyih Khanum shared a story that Shoghi Effendi had traveled through the region in the early 1920s. Following the dedication Ruhiyyih Khanum and chairman Nakhkajvani embarked on 15 days of visiting Bahá'ís through Uganda and Kenya including staying in their homes, dedicating two schools, ate native food, and were honored with traditional songs and dances. Khanum suggested repeatedly that the Ugandan's own folklore, their traditions and their native songs and music should not be discarded, but that in a society of unity in diversity they were to preserve and develop these as their contribution in enriching the spiritual and material life of human society as well as noting the equality of the sexes and that women should take equal part in administration of the religion.\n\nIn January 1958, soon after the death of Shoghi Effendi in November, another intercontinental conference was held in Kampala and attended by his widow Ruhiyyih Khanum. Though sorrowful at his death, there was a call to service in honor of his service. The conference had been initially planned for less than 400 attendees and was overwhelmed as news of over 300 Persians alone were coming. Ultimately some 950 Bahá'ís, six Hands of the Cause, a member of the International Bahá'í Council, sixteen Auxiliary Board members, and representatives from eleven national spiritual assemblies (including those from the four African regional assemblies, those from the other national assemblies which had participated in campaign to bring the religion to sub-Saharan Africa - Britain, India, Iraq, Persia, and the United States - and those from Arabia and Japan), 450 African members, over 300 from Persia, two Knights of Bahá'u'lláh (one from the Pacific and one from the Arctic), and others from rest of the world were present at the formal convening of the conference as well as telegrams received from many other Hands of the Cause and 34 national assemblies arrived. Reportedly every hotel room was booked. Ruhiyyih Khanum anointed most attendees with Attar of rose before being admitted into a viewing of relics of Bahá'u'lláh as well as a reproduction of a painting of him on the first day of the conference. Viewings were also held of a large map by Shoghi Effendi showing the progress of the religion, films of Shrines and gardens from the Bahá'í World Center, as it existed then, as well as the Monument on the grave of Shoghi Effendi. Some $280,000 was raised at the conference from a segment of the attendees for donation to the progress of the religion. The foundation stone for the Mother Temple of Africa was laid and relics in silk bags made by Bahiyyih Khánum were set in place (planned to be under the wall on that side of the Temple facing out across a grassy valley towards the Bahá'í Qiblih.) Ruhiyyih Khanum then spent a day among the Tseo people - speaking to school groups, receiving guests, and visiting homes. She donated money for the reconstruction of a center that had been lost.\n\nSix conferences held in October 1967 around the world presented a viewing of a copy of the photograph of Bahá'u'lláh on the highly significant occasion commemorating the centennial of Bahá'u'lláh's writing of the \"Suriy-i-Mulúk\" (Tablet to the Kings), which Shoghi Effendi describes as \"the most momentous Tablet revealed by Bahá'u'lláh\". After a meeting in Edirne (Adrianople), Turkey, the Hands of the Cause travelled to the conferences, with each carrying a copy of the photograph of Bahá'ú'lláh. Hand of the Cause `Alí-Akbar Furútan conveyed this photograph to the Conference for Africa at Uganda. Ebony magazine covered the event. Ugandan radio, television and print media covered the events related to the conference as well. Some 400 Bahá'ís from twenty-four African countries gathered. Kolonerio Oule, chairman of the National Assembly for Uganda and Central Africa, opened the conference on the first day and Hands of the Cause `Alí-Akbar Furútan and Enoch Olinga began presentations and discussions about the history of the tablets and the range of who they were made for. The next day the new national center building on the same property as the temple was dedicated - it is a circular building having a round central auditorium surrounded by a group of offices, a library, archives, publishing, guest roams and kitchen. The third day William Masehla and speaker Helen Elsie Austin focused attention on the role of the individual in the progress of the religion. That evening a public meeting of some 500 people was held followed by a reception for 250 people; efforts had focused invitations to government personnel, clergy, educational institutions and professional communities. Roger White was a representative of the Canadian national Assembly which made a gift to the Bahá'ís of Uganda in the form of an illuminated tablet of the writings of the religion.\n\nIt was in 1958 that the Bahá'ís of Kampala contracted to reserve a segment of a cemetery for use by Bahá'ís. Weekend schools begun in 1958 continued through 1960 though classes now used chapters from \"Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era\" by John Esslemont. In September 1961, a number of permanent Bahá'í schools were set up—two Louis Gregory Bahá'í Schools, one in Tilling, the home town of Olinga, and the other in Dusai. Courses emphasized homecraft and child rearing mixed with presentations on the religion and men supported women taking the courses. News of the openings was covered in \"Jet Magazine\". The extraordinary number of enrollments in Uganda and Kenya had reached the point in late 1959 that the institution of the Hands of the Cause were noting there were not enough Bahá'ís to keep up with the work of checking the enrollments. 1961 also saw the development of a Ugandan Bahá'í publishing trust. Olinga was able to re-visit Uganda in June, and again in August–September 1962 when he toured widely in Uganda speaking to many groups amounting to thousands of people about the religion before moving on to Kenya and Tanganyika and the Congo. As the monthly rate of growth reached into the hundreds, a goal of the Uganda Teaching Committee was of stimulating the individual assemblies and believers to assume increasing responsibility for weekend schools in their own villages so that traveling teachers could focus in other areas. In September 1962 Milton Obote, then Prime Minister of Uganda, visited the Shrine of the Bab. In 1963 Nakhjavani was elected to the Universal House of Justice, the governing body of the worldwide Bahá'í community, while Olinga chaired the first Bahá'í World Congress which announced the election to the world. By the end of 1963 there were 554 Local Spiritual Assemblies in various localities, 389 smaller Bahá'í groups, and some 200 isolated individual Bahá'ís spread across Uganda. In 1964 the regional Assemblies were reassigned and Uganda joined with the Central African Republic. The July 1964 issue of Uganda Argus profiled the religion as well as a broad article about the 4 Bahá'í Houses of Worship then in existence. One hundred thirty-two delegates and visitors assembled in Kampala, Uganda, for the 1966 convention to elect the regional national assembly of Uganda and Central Africa. Olinga was able to visit Uganda again from October to December 1967 for an extended tour of the country. Rapid expansion of the religion in the late 1960s was most particularly true in Uganda, Vietnam and Indonesia. The 1968 membership of the regional national assembly of Uganda and Central Africa was: Hassan Sabri, Tito Wanantsrusri, Kolonerio Oule, Elizabeth Olinga, George William Ebetu, Moses Senoga, Sospateri Isimai, Alinote Colleque, and Albert Ocnamodek. During the period of Ayyám-i-Há 1969 the Bahá'ís had a public exhibit on the religion at the Kamapala national theatre. The mayor of Kampala spoke at the opening preceding the showing of the film, \"And His Name Shall Be One\". The exhibit consisted of books, charts, artifacts, photographs, movies, slides, and recordings. Original Tablets, books, and excerpts written by the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh, and `Abdu'l-Bahá were displayed along with secondary works. Bahá'í history was illustrated in a chart depicting events from the birth of Bahá'u'lláh to the founding of the Universal House of Justice, plus displays of The Dawn-Breakers in three languages. The arts were shown in oil paintings, photographs, silverwork, and handwoven carpets and the diversity of nationalities and religious backgrounds was illustrated with photographs and slides taken during conventions, Temple dedications, and intercontinental conferences. Later that summer Ruhiyyih Khanum visited Uganda on a ten-day tour. In Kampala she was able to attend several events before driving into the countryside to visit Bahá'ís. In town events included: a reception given in her honor and that of two visiting members of the Universal House of Justice, Hushmand Fatheazam and 'Ali Nahkjavani; to deliver a public lecture in the hall of the national theater; to be interviewed for a full half hour on Radio Uganda on the \"Guest of the Week\" program; and attend a wedding at the temple along with fellow Hands of the Cause Enoch Olinga and Músá Bánaní before going on to Ethiopia and other countries on a four-month tour. She returned at the end of the tour for a few days of low key meetings with Bahá'ís before her final departure.\n\nIn 1970 Mary Collison died - together Mary and Reginald Collison had spent their last years as caretakers of the temple. That summer Ugandan Bahá'ís held their first national youth conference and elected a national assembly just for Uganda - the first members were: Enos Epyeru, Javan Gutosi, S. M. lsimai, Moses Senoga, Julias Nambafu, Augustin Massati, Augustin Naku, and Albert Ocamodek. On the Presidency of Idi Amin in August, the Bahá'ís were among those invited to a meeting with the President. At the meeting the Bahá'ís offered a statement outlining the basic principle of the religion of obedience to government. At a follow-up meeting, Enoch Olinga represented the community at the close of a number of sessions of Religious Conferences that took place across Uganda. Soon afterwards, Músá Banání died in September after suffering a long illness and was buried on grounds of the temple in a new Bahá'í cemetery. The funeral gathered together three Hands of the Cause: Enoch Olinga, A. Q. Faizi, Ruhiyyih Khanum; a member of The Universal House of Justice, Ali Nakbjavani, Violette Nakhjavani and their daughter, Bahiyyih, whose wedding took place two years ago in Kampala to Paul Adams many other Bahá'í leaders from across Africa as well as six members of the National Spiritual Assembly of Uganda; and many other Baha'is from all over Uganda and other parts of Africa. Pioneers like Zylpha Mapp served development interests in Uganda in 1971-2 while working as a director of guidance at the Tororo Girls' School. She was on a leave of absence from the public school system from her work in the States, and was cooperating with the Uganda Ministry of Education in developing a guidance program in other schools of the nation while also began editing the Ugandan National Baha'i Newsletter. Later in 1971 then President Amin attended the celebration of the birth of Bahá'u'lláh and made complimentary remarks about the religion. These and others worked with university researchers on mental health issues as well. Efforts inside the community included noting the importance of Bahá'í elections as part of a worldwide initiative called for by the Universal House of Justice. Other projects in 1971-2 for Uganda included beautification of the cemetery, spreading the religion, and multiple youth gatherings. In 1972 Bahá'í Dwight W. Allen won an Award of Merit for helping in the establishment of the Tororo Girls' School which was transitioned to administration by the Ugandan government. Enoch Olinga's daughter Florence began attending the Tororo school in 1972 while other youth began making trips to various communities in support of Bahá'í activities. In 1973 Enoch Olinga and his wife both spoke at the Tororo School while the school also had visits from other leaders of the religion. In 1975-6 the Olingas toured parts of Uganda as well as having talks with government officials on the teachings of the religion with some of their travels covered by announcements by radio. Meanwhile, a public exhibit on the religion was held at the national museum which was covered by the now renamed Voice of Uganda national newsletter as well as examine Bahá'í teachings. 1975 was the silver anniversary of the religion in Uganda and a celebration, commemorating it was concluded with a program in observance of United Nations Day and a reception of high-ranking official guests from other Ghana and the UN, and members of the religion who had come from some villages. In 1976 Zylpha Mapp-Robinson, the daughter of the first African-American woman Bahá'í, who had pioneered in many places and who lived in Uganda nine years, was elected to the national spiritual assembly of Uganda in 1976. In June 1977 a small conference of leaders of the religion including the Olingas was held to discuss the progress of the growth of the religion. It was unusual in that even though just 52, 13 of whom were youth, were at the meeting, they received a message from the Universal House of Justice. Enoch Olinga reminded the group that Shoghi Effendi had called the Ugandan community the spiritual heart of Africa. In September the administrative institutions of the religion had been disbanded by the government along with over two dozen other groups. Soon the Uganda-Tanzania War broke out in 1978 and President Amin was overthrown by early 1979.\n\nAs part of a sweep across several Sub-Saharan countries, the Bahá'í Faith was banned in the 1970s in several countries: Burundi, 1974; Mali 1976; Uganda 1977; Congo, 1978; Niger, 1978. Uganda had had the largest Bahá'í community in Africa at the time and Olinga had returned and sought the protection of the community during this difficult time when Idi Amin's regime ruled Uganda. See also Uganda under Idi Amin.\n\n\"This was principally the result of a campaign by a number of Arab countries. Since these countries were also by this time providers of development aid, this overt attack on the Baha'is was supported by covert moves such as linking the aid money to a particular country to the action that it took against the Baha'is. This was partially successful and a number of countries did ban the Baha'is for a time. However, the Baha'is were able to demonstrate to these governments that they were not agents of Zionism nor anti-Islamic and succeeded in having the ban reversed in all of these countries except Niger.\"\n\nIt was a period of violence from 1978. In March 1979 the Olinga home was robbed though the temple was undisturbed and there was a suspicious accident where Olinga's car was rammed and forced down a hill by a troop transport vehicle, where he was robbed and left for dead, and Olinga's son George was disappeared for a week by soldiers of Amin. Death threats perhaps simply because of his prominence came to Olinga from his home town. Meanwhile, after President Amin fled in April the religion began to re-organize - there was the re-opening of the Bahá'í House of Worship again, and the beginning of reforming the national assembly in August. Neighbors and a garden servant boy bore witness mostly by hearing events of the execution of the Olinga family. On the evening of Sunday, September 16, 1979, the birthday of one of Olinga's daughters and planned as a day of a family reunion of which a few could not arrive in time, after 8pm local time five soldiers entered Olinga's home while one stood guard at the household gate and killed Olinga, his wife, and three of their five children. Trails of blood went from the kitchen to the back of the house and one of the children had been hurt and roughly bandaged before the family was executed. Enoch himself was killed out in the yard where he had been heard weeping after perhaps witnessing his dead family in the very same house he had joined the religion in. The news was conveyed initially by the garden servant to a member of the national committee that had been appointed and then to a 79-year-old pioneer, Claire Gung, who called internationally. Ultimately news reached the Universal House of Justice while it sat in session on the 17th. All the dead were buried in the Bahá'í cemetery on the temple grounds on the 25th while civil war and terrorism continued. The funeral included hundreds of Bahá'ís who could make the trip and several members of the government of Uganda.\n\nAfter the Uganda-Tanzania War and when the ban on the religion was rescinded, Ugandan Bahá'ís re-formed their National Spiritual Assembly in 1981, though the Ugandan Bush War dragged on. In 1982 the two primary schools the Bahá'ís had founded in 1961 were again under Bahá'í administration by February 1982. More than 200 Bahá'ís and non-Bahá'ís gathered in 1983 to celebrate children and a kindergarten multi-racial nursery school established by Claire Gung and Rex Collison died in June 1983. Instances of hundreds of people joining the religion recurred in 1984. In about February 1985 George Olinga and Benson Kariuki gave a talk at one the primary schools about the religion about the institutions of the religion and Claire Gung died while the nursery she established was assumed by the national assembly and funds were allotted for the renovation of the primary schools. In 1986-7 Dwight W. Allen returned to Uganda and was the project coordinator for the Donors' Conference for the rehabilitation of Makerere University. In 1988 the community held a children's conference and was visible in a number of public events including a preferential trade exhibition at which various governmental leaders visited.\n\nThe Ugandan Bahá'í community has been involved in a wide range of projects many of which benefit the nation while also advancing awareness of the religion. In 1989 a Bahá'í expert and businessman in using appropriate technology from Swaziland traveled through six southern and eastern African countries including Uganda training local people in the manufacture of several kinds of fence-making machines and other technologies in building, agriculture and water programs. The 10-day training courses were organized by the National Spiritual Assemblies in each of the six countries. In 1989 a Bahá'í Club was organized for Makerere University composed of Bahá'ís and non-Bahá'ís while the national assembly invited members of the Department of Religious Studies at Makerere University to the Bahá'í House of Worship to familiarize staff with the religion, its institutions and how they function to contextualize the interaction between the agencies of the religion and the university while it implemented two new courses designed and taught by a Bahá'í, Dr. Tim Rost, on \"Peace and Justice\" and another on \"Religion and Development.\" At the same time Bahá'í women of Mbale took part in events organized by the National Council on Women by a multicultural children's program emphasizing good neighborliness and handicrafts of women - government administrators observed that Bahá'ís had several programs advancing diverse issues in Uganda. In 1990 the Bahá'í Office of Social and Economic Development in Uganda established a project to train healthcare field workers for work in Uganda. In 1993 the national assembly added a project to develop a middle-level management training program for community level primary health care workers. The focus was on prevention of childhood diseases, maternal-infant health care, and community building. Later, the Uganda Bahá'í Institute for Development set up a project introducing use of the latrine, immunization, and nets to fight off malaria-bearing mosquitoes, and people learned the importance of clean water in a Ugandan village. In 2000, the Bahá'ís of Uganda shared their activities in the areas of education, family health, moral training for children, publishing, and collaboration with other non-governmental organizations at a national United Nations Day celebration held at the Muguluka Primary School near Jinja. After receiving her Ph.D. at age 78, Zylpha Mapp-Robinson returned to Uganda at age 86 in the year 2000 to create the Ugandan Institution for the advancement of Women. In 2002 a National Conference in Guyana on \"Spiritual Approach to the Challenge of HIV/AIDS\" sponsored by the Varqa Foundation, UNICEF, & Bahá'í International Community highlighted experiences in Uganda dealing with the AIDS epidemic by including the role of the spiritual training of children on virtues like humility, reverence, kindliness, respect and courtesy, and unity in diversity so that they would lead moral lives and overcome not only AIDS but alcohol and drug abuse, violence, crime, prejudice, hatred, intolerance and poverty. In 2004 the Bahá'í-based Uganda Program of Literacy for Transformation helped participants acquire the skills, knowledge, and incentive for a “lifelong self-improvement plan” — coupled with an emphasis on moral education and inter-religious harmony.\n\nThe Ugandan Bahá'í community has also encouraged the practice of the arts. Eighteen youth from Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia, and Tanzania joined together to form Youth in Motion, a Bahá'í Workshop (see Oscar DeGruy) aimed at expressing the message brought by Bahá'u'lláh. The group traveled for four months, performing before a total of more than 50,000 people in three countries. In 1998 Bahá'í Margaret Nagawa held a showing at the Ugandan National Museum, and award-winning Bahá'í Edel'Akongu Ekodelele Eyperu died in 2002.\n\nIn 2001 a week-long celebration featuring a statement by Ugandan President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, some 2000 of the Ugandan Baha'i community commemorated the 50th anniversary of its founding.\n\nThe Bahá'ís of Uganda have continued to be involved in social issues; in 2007 a movie on development issues in Uganda was produced by the Bahá'ís named \"Opening a Space - The Discourse on Science, Religion and Development in Uganda\" and on 25 November 2007 the Bahá'í House of Worship was a rallying point on for the \"Speak out! Stand out!\" campaign on preventing violence against women. Bahá'í delegates from Uganda and 14 other countries convened in New York from February 23 – March 7 for the 52nd session of the UN Commission on the Status of Women in 2008.\n\nUgandan Bahá'ís have also participated in recent international Bahá'í events. Ugandan youth were among the 149 assembled at the National Bahá’í Center in Burundi in August 2006. In 2007 Bahá'ís in Entebbe helped organize World Religion Day commemorations. In 2008 one of the delegates from Uganda was one of the 19 tellers who counted the secret ballots for the election of the Universal House of Justice.\n\nDuring 2000–2002 estimates of the Ugandan Bahá'í community ranged widely; while the official census counted almost 19,000 Bahá'í, other sources range from 66,000 to 105,000 Bahá'ís in the country. By 2005 US Dept. State statistics estimated Hinduism, the Bahá'í Faith, and Judaism together formed 2% of the national population. About 300 Bahá'í believers were in Kampala.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26258813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26258813", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Uzbekistan", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Uzbekistan\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Uzbekistan began in the lifetime of Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the religion. Circa 1918 there were an estimated 1900 Bahá'ís in Tashkent. By the period of the policy of oppression of religion in the former Soviet Union the communities shrank away - by 1963 in the entire USSR there were about 200 Bahá'ís. Little is known until the 1980s when the Bahá'í Faith started to grow across the Soviet Union again. In 1991 a Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly of the Soviet Union was elected but was quickly split among its former members. In 1992, a regional National Spiritual Assembly for the whole of Central Asia was formed with its seat in Ashgabat. In 1994 the National Spiritual Assembly of Uzbekistan was elected. In 2008 eight Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies or smaller groups had registered with the government though more recently there were also raids and expulsions.\n\nThe earliest relationship between the Bahá'í Faith and Uzbekistan comes under the sphere of the country's history with Russia. During that time, when the region was variously called Asiatic Russia or Russian Turkestan as part of the Russian Empire, the history stretches back to 1847 when the Russian ambassador to Tehran, Prince Dimitri Ivanovich Dolgorukov, requested that the Báb, the herald to the Bahá'í Faith who was imprisoned at Maku, be moved elsewhere; he also condemned the massacres of Iranian religionists, and asked for the release of Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith.\nWithin the lifetime of Bahá'u'lláh the religion was established in Samarkand to which Mirzá Abu'l-Fadl later traveled. While in Samarkand in 1892 Mirza Abu'l-Fadl wrote a book, \"Fassl-ul-Khitab\" (Conclusive Proof), in response to the questions of Mirza Haydar-Ali of Tabriz. It was in Samarkand, too, that he debated a Protestant preacher. In 1910 the Samarkand Bahá'í community elected its first assembly in addition to having a school, and built a center which held four meetings a week.\n\nOne tablet of `Abdu'l-Bahá says to the assembly of Samarkand: Do ye know in what cycle ye are created and in what age ye exist? This is the age of the Blessed Perfection and this is the time of the Greatest Name!… If we are not happy and joyous at this season, for what other season shall we wait and for what other time shall we look? This is the time for growing; the season for joyous gathering! …\n\nIn Tashkand, a community of Bahá'ís had expanded to about 1900 members, supporting a library, Persian and Russian language schools, and large meetings were being advertised with the permission of government authorities. Bahá'í literature published in Tashkand included several works of `Abdu'l-Bahá. By 1938, after numerous arrests and a policy of oppression of religion, Bahá'ís across the Soviet Union were being sent to prisons and camps or sent abroad. Bahá'í communities in 38 cities across Soviet territories ceased to exist. In Tashkent Bahá'ís were interrogated and imprisoned. Aqa Habibullah Baqiroff of Tashkent was sentenced to ten years imprisonment \"in the neighbourhood of the North Sea and the polar forests.\"\n\nFollowing the ban on religion, the Bahá'ís, strictly adhering to their principle of obedience to legal government, abandoned its administration and its properties were nationalized. By 1946 in all Turkestan only Ashgabat, Samarkand and Tashkand communities continued. Bahá'ís had managed to re-enter various countries of the Eastern Bloc through the 1950s, following a plan of the head of the religion at the time, Shoghi Effendi. By 1956 there was only a vague mention of an operating community of Bahá'ís in Uzbekistan.\n\nA pair of small communities were listed in 1963 - Tashkand and an isolated Bahá'í in Fergana. The Universal House of Justice, the head of the religion since 1963, then recognized small Bahá'í communities in much of the USSR: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Turkistan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan. At this time in the USSR there were 200 Bahá'ís.\n\nThere is evidence that the Bahá'í Faith started to grow across the Soviet Union in the 1980s. In 1990 Local Spiritual Assemblies were listed in Samarkand and Tashkent. In 1991 a Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly of the Soviet Union was elected but was quickly split among its former members. In 1992, a regional National Spiritual Assembly for the whole of Central Asia (Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Kirgizia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan) was formed with its seat in Ashgabat. In 1994 the National Spiritual Assembly of Uzbekistan was elected.\n\nIn 2006 the US State Department ambassador-at-large for international religious freedom singled out Uzbekistan for criticism for its recent crackdown on religious minorities, saying the government of President Islam Karimov had stepped up restrictions. However Uzbek Bahá'ís were able to attend a regional conference on the progress of the religion in Almaty in southeastern Kazakhstan in 2008. Two of the communities in Uzbekistan showed higher scale coordination on the efforts of the community. Three members of the National Spiritual Assembly were delegates in Haifa for international Bahá'í convention in 2008, and Uzbeks had joined the religion elsewhere. But in 2009-2010 registered groups had meetings that were broken up, and parents who had signed permission for their children to attend these meetings were fined. Propaganda about religious activities including those of Bahá'ís and Muslims had been forced through Uzbek cable television operators.\n\nStatistics from the state Religious Affairs Committee indicate that one Baha'i community lost registration between October 2002 and February 2007. As of 2005 there were 6 communities registered with the government while in 2008 there were eight. These communities included Tashkent, Samarkand, Jizzakh, Bukhara and Navoi. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 770 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1310810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1310810", "title": "Bishopric of Dorpat", "text": "Bishopric of Dorpat\n\nThe Bishopric of Dorpat (; ; ) was a medieval prince-bishopric, i;e; both a diocese of the Roman Catholic Church and a temporal principality ruled by the bishop of the diocese. It existed from 1224 to 1558, generally encompassing what are now Tartu County, Põlva County, Võru County, and Jõgeva County in Estonia. The prince-bishopric was a sovereign member of the Holy Roman Empire (formally from 6 Nov 1225) and part of the Livonian Confederation.\n\nThe first Bishop of Dorpat (the current Tartu) was Hermann von Buxhövden, the brother of Albert von Buxhövden, Bishop of Riga and leader of the Livonian Crusade. The Estonian Diocese was established by the Bishop of Riga in 1211 and its first nominal seat was Leal (Lihula) in western Estonia. In 1224, Bishop Hermann took possession of parts of what is today southeastern Estonia and chose Dorpat as his new seat. On 6 November 1225 he was enfeoffed with his principality by Henry VII of Germany, King of the Romans, and on 1 December Dorpat was created a March of the Holy Roman Empire. The principality was founded mainly on territories of the Ugaunian tribe of ancient Estonians. In 1242, Bishop Hermann with his Ugaunian subjects was defeated by Novgorod's prince Alexander Nevsky in the famous Battle on Lake Peipus. \n\nDuring 1268, Fredrik, the then Bishop of Dorpat, is known to have called himself also as the \"Bishop of Karelia\", the background of the short-lived title remaining open.\n\nThe Bishopric of Dorpat was an important Hanseatic trade center. \n\nAt the end of the 14th century, former Dietrich Damerow became the Bishop of Dorpat. He was the archenemy of the Livonian Order and made a coalition against it with Lithuania, Mecklenburg, and the Victual Brothers (notorious pirates of the Baltic Sea). He even asked King Richard II of England to take Dorpat under his protection. The Order invaded the bishopric in 1379 with no success. After settling the conflict the Livonian Order lost its right to demand that vassals of bishoprics take part in military campaigns.\n\nDuring its last years, the Bishopric of Dorpat had a dispute with Russia which became later the main pretext of the Livonian War. Tsar Ivan the Terrible demanded that the bishopric pay a huge tribute of 40,000 talers. Ivan insisted that the Dorpat was the ancient Russian fortress of \"Yuryev\" (referring to short-term Ruthenian rule of the area after conquest by prince Yaroslav I the Wise, 1030–61(?)). The rulers of Dorpat tried to negotiate a smaller amount in the interest of extending the truce, but Ivan dismissed the diplomats and started the war. In 1558 Tartu was conquered by Russian troops and the Bishopric of Dorpat ceased to exist.\n\nBeside Dorpat (Tartu) there were five more stone castles in the Bishopric:\n\nThere was also an outstanding Cistercian monastery, Kärkna Abbey (also Valkena or Falkenau) near Dorpat.\n\nThe center of the bishopric was the Tartu (Dorpat) castle (). The castle was damaged during the Northern War and was dismantled during the 18th century. Later (at the beginning of 19th century) an observatory was built on the site. The seat of the bishopric, Dorpat Cathedral, was damaged during the Protestant Reformation and has been in ruins since the 17th century.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "752576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=752576", "title": "Captain Moroni", "text": "Captain Moroni\n\nAccording to the Book of Mormon, Captain Moroni was an important Nephite military commander and patriot who lived during the 1st century BC. He is perhaps best known for raising a \"title of liberty\" as a call to arms for his people to defend their country, family, freedom, peace, and religion. He is first mentioned in the Book of Alma as \"the chief captain over the Nephites.\"\n\nCaptain Moroni is presented as a righteous and skilled military commander. Among his accomplishments were his extensive preparations for battle and his fierce defense of the right of the Nephites to govern themselves and worship as they saw fit.\n\nCaptain Moroni shares a name with the prophet Moroni; the former is indexed in the LDS edition of the Book of Mormon as Moroni.\nAccording to the Book of Mormon, Moroni was \"only twenty and five years old when he was appointed chief captain\" of the Nephites. The appointment came in response to a looming war with Lamanites and Zoramites, a force which was led by Zerahemnah and included many Nephite dissenters. The Lamanite army attacked the Nephites in the land of Jershon and the battle ended on the banks of the river Sidon. In this war, Moroni set to work readying the Nephite people with body armor for the first time. He sent spies to investigate the Lamanites' weaknesses, and then he led his troops with the plan to surround those of the Lamanites. Moroni's overriding objective was to defend his people and their right to worship their God as they pleased. Ultimately, Moroni met that objective, which resulted in keeping many of the Lamanites from ever coming to combat against the Nephites again.\n\nMoroni introduced to the Nephites revolutionary strategies in military tactics, safety, and precaution. He kept the people physically safe while he prayed, guiding and leading his armies by divine intervention. He was also known by his people for his firm ideology and integrity and his constant willingness to support the causes of personal freedom gaining the people's trust.\n\nMoroni is associated with the \"title of liberty,\" a standard that he raised to rally the Nephites to defend their liberties from a group of dissenters who wanted to establish their leader as a king. Moroni was so angry with Amalickiah's dissention and wicked influence that he tore his coat and wrote upon it, \"In memory of our God, our religion, and freedom, and our peace, our wives, and our children.\" With those words, he rallied his people to defend their families and their freedom and drove out the armies of Amalickiah. Moroni put to death any dissenters who did not flee and would not support the cause of freedom, and his \" title of liberty\" was raised over every Nephite tower.\n\nAccording to the Book of Mormon, Moroni sought to strengthen the Nephites spiritually to be better prepared against the Lamanites, leading Mormon to comment on Moroni's righteousness. \n\nYears later, Moroni encountered problems with a group of men called \"king-men,\" who were so called because they wanted to replace the chief judge and democracy with a king, an aim seen as destroying the liberty of the people. Moroni had written to Pahoran for help in the war, and the Lamanites attacked before the help could arrive. Moroni wrote again, chastising Pahoran in the process for failing to respond, even threatening to \"stir up insurrections\" against what he perceived to be the non-responsive government authorities. Pahoran wrote back, saying that the king-men had driven him from the judgment seat, and he had been unable to respond to Moroni's requests for assistance. Moroni left command of his armies in the hands of his deputies and led an insurrection of the people against the king-men. The leader of the king-men, Pachus, was killed and his followers were taken prisoner. Moroni and Pahoran regained control of the city of Nephihah, which they had lost, restoring the previous form of government by judges.\n\nAfter fortifying the Nephites' lands, Moroni transferred command of his armies to his son Moronihah and permanently retired to his own home. Four years later, in the 36th year of the reign of the judges (or approximately 56 BC), Moroni died. According to the chronology of years, listing the time from when Moroni took command of the armies at 25, he would have been approximately 45 when he died.\n\nThe narrative of Captain Moroni plays a significant role in how members of the LDS Church understand and justify the political realities of war and violence. In this context, important aspects of Moroni’s narrative include that he \"did not delight in the shedding of blood,\" his warfare was strictly defensive, he sought the guidance of prophets before battle, and he did not seek for power. When the U.S.-led War in Afghanistan commenced during the LDS Church's October 2001 General Conference, Gordon B. Hinckley announced commencement and referenced the story of Captain Moroni saying, \"There are times when we must stand up for right and decency, for freedom and civilization, just as Moroni rallied his people in his day to the defense of their wives, their children, and the cause of liberty.\"\n\nSome Mormon authors, such as Nicholeen Peck, have drawn comparisons between the lives of Captain Moroni and General George Washington. Peck writes, \"Many many years before George Washington, Captain Moroni did the same thing George Washington did. He wrote the Title of Liberty, and put on his military uniform, to show he would fight for his liberties if it was necessary.\" Mormon writer Heather Hemingway makes similar observations by noting, \"Captain Moroni’s humility and valor is similar to that of George Washington during the winter of 1777-1778.\"\n\nIn the Book of Mormon, Moroni is a military leader who takes command of an oppressed people and battles a corrupt king for their freedom. Moroni was a righteous general who among many notable accomplishments became angry with his government over its \"indifference concerning the freedom of [its] country.\" Cliven Bundy, an anti-government activist and a Mormon, has frequently made references to the Book of Mormon in his conflicts with the US government. According to Oregon Public Broadcasting, during the Bundy family’s 2014 occupation of federally-owned lands in Nevada, Bundy used banners quoting Moroni: \"In memory of our God, our religion, and freedom, and our peace, our wives, and our children.\"\n\nIn 2016, Ammon Bundy, a son of Cliven, used much of the same language as his father, \"mixing Mormon religious symbolism with a disgust of the federal government,\" during an occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge. One member of Bundy's anti-government extremist group refused to give any other name to the press than \"Captain Moroni, from Utah.\" The man calling himself \"Captain Moroni\" was later identified in media reports and a criminal complaint as 34-year-old Dylan Anderson.\n\nOn January 4, 2016, the LDS Church released a statement, distancing itself from the standoff at the wildlife refuge.\n\n"}
{"id": "35650533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35650533", "title": "Chryse (mythology)", "text": "Chryse (mythology)\n\nIn Greek mythology, the name Chryse ( or \"golden\") may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "24804136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24804136", "title": "Cleansing ten lepers", "text": "Cleansing ten lepers\n\nJesus' cleansing of ten lepers is one of the miracles of Jesus reported in the Gospels (Gospel of Luke 17:11-19).\n\nAccording to Luke's account, on his way to Jerusalem, Jesus encountered ten lepers. He healed them, but only one returned to thank Jesus afterward.\n\nAccording to Berard Marthaler and Herbert Lockyer, this miracle emphasizes the importance of faith, for Jesus did not say: \"My power has saved you\" but attributed the healing to the faith of the beneficiaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "29528340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29528340", "title": "Dhunachi", "text": "Dhunachi\n\nDhunachi (धुनाची,धुनाची)(ধুনুচি) is an Indian incense burner (commonly used in conjunction with Indian Frankincense or \"Dhuno\" (\"धूना\")(\"ধুনো\") for traditional ceremonies) used for one of the stages during aarti, or ritualized dance worship. It is often used following the arati with the pradip (a lamp with an odd number of wicks). \n\nThe dhunachi has a flared shape and is held by a stem with a large cavity at the top, and is traditionally made of earthenware. When made of brass or silver, it needs a longer handle because of the heat. It is lit by placing burning coal at the bottom, which ignites a layer of slow-burning coconut husk, on which incense (usually resin like Indian Frankincense or \"Dhuno\" (\"धूना\")(\"ধুনো\")) is sprinkled. \n\nDuring the Durga puja in eastern India, it is common to have \"dhunuchi nritya\", or a frenzied dance with the censer, to the accompaniment of feverish dhak rolls. Many puja traditions also organize contests for the best dance, where some performers may go with as many as three dhunuchis - the third one held between the teeth. Dhunachi arati also known as \"dhoop arati\".\n\n"}
{"id": "16272418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16272418", "title": "Faith in Buddhism", "text": "Faith in Buddhism\n\nIn Buddhism, faith (, ) refers to a serene commitment to the practice of the Buddha's teaching and trust in enlightened or highly developed beings, such as Buddhas or \"bodhisattvas\" (those aiming to become a Buddha). Buddhists usually recognize multiple objects of faith, but many are especially devoted to one in particular, such as one particular Buddha. Faith may not only be devotion to a person, but exists in relation to Buddhist concepts like the efficacy of karma and the possibility of enlightenment.\n\nFaith in early Buddhism focused on the Triple Gem, that is, the Buddha; his teaching (the dharma); and finally, the community of spiritually developed followers or the monastic community seeking enlightenment (the saṅgha). A faithful devotee was called an \"upāsaka\" or \"upāsika\", a status for which no formal initiation was required. Early Buddhism valued personal verification of spiritual truth highest in attaining such truth, and considered sacred scriptures, reason or faith in a teacher less valuable sources of authority. As important as faith was, it was merely a first step on the path to wisdom and enlightenment, and was made obsolete or redefined at the final stage of that path. Early Buddhism did not morally condemn peaceful offerings to deities. Throughout the history of Buddhism, the worship of deities, often from pre-Buddhist and animist origins, was appropriated or transformed into Buddhist practices and beliefs. As part of this process, such deities were explained as subordinate to the Triple Gem, which still kept a central role.\n\nIn the later stratum of Buddhist history, especially in Mahāyāna Buddhism, faith was given a much more important role. Mahāyāna developed the concept of the Buddha Nature, as devotion to Buddhas and \"bodhisattvas\" residing in Pure Lands became commonplace. With the rise of the cult of the Lotus Sūtra, faith gained a central role in Buddhist practice, and the development of devotion to the Amitābha Buddha in Pure Land Buddhism further amplified this trend. The Japanese form of Pure Land Buddhism, under the teachers Hōnen and Shinran, believed that only entrusting faith toward the Amitābha Buddha was a fruitful form of practice, as it dismissed celibacy, meditation and other Buddhist practices as no longer effective, or as contradicting the virtue of faith. Pure Land Buddhists defined faith as a state similar to enlightenment, with a sense of self-negation and humility. The impact of faith in Buddhist religiosity became pivotal in millenarian movements in several Buddhist countries, which sometimes resulted in the destruction of royal dynasties and other important political changes.\n\nThus, the role of faith increased throughout Buddhist history. However, from the nineteenth century onward, in countries like Sri Lanka and Japan, and also in the West, Buddhist modernism has downplayed and criticized the role of faith in Buddhism. Faith in Buddhism still has a role in modern Asia and the West, but is understood and defined differently from traditional interpretations, with modern values and eclecticism becoming more important. The \"Dalit\" Buddhist community, specifically the Navayāna movement, has interpreted Buddhist concepts in the light of the political situation of the \"Dalits\", in which there is tension between modernist rationalism and local devotion.\n\nFaith is defined as serene trust that the practice of the Buddha's teaching will bring fruit. It is trust and surrender to enlightened or highly developed beings, such as Buddhas or \"bodhisattvas\", or even certain highly respected monks or lamas sometimes seen as living Buddhas. Buddhists usually recognize multiple objects of faith, but many are especially devoted to one particular object of faith, such as one particular Buddha. Buddhism has, however, never been organized around one central authority, neither as a person or a scripture. Scriptures have usually acted as guidance, and consensus about practices has come about through debate and discussion.\n\nSeveral terms are used in Buddhism for faith, which have both cognitive and affective aspects:\n\nFaith is usually related to the Triple Gem, that is the Buddha, the dharma (his teaching) and the saṅgha (the community). Thus, faith may often have certain individuals as its object, but is different from devotion in other Indian religions (\"bhakti\") in that it is connected with impersonal objects such as the working of karma and the efficacy of merit transfer. It is seen to focus on or lead to a right view or understanding of the main aspects of the Buddha's teaching, such as the working of karma, merit and rebirth. Regarding the Triple Gem, faith focuses on and rejoices in the characteristics of the Buddha, the dharma and the saṅgha. With regard to the working of karma, faith refers to a conviction that deeds have effects, good deeds having positive effects, and wrong deeds negative. Thus, faith gives guidance in leading a life of charity, morality and religious qualities. Faith also covers ideas such as the nature of existence, its impermanence and conditioned nature, and finally, the Buddha's enlightenment or Nirvana and the path of practice leading up to Nirvana. Faith entails a belief that there are people who have attained Nirvana and are able to teach it.\n\nHajime Nakamura distinguishes two currents in Buddhism, which he describes as the devotional approach and the approach of \"inner knowledge\". Anthropologist Melford Spiro discusses \"bhakti\" (devotion) on the one hand and \"magga\" (the path to deliverance) on the other hand. In Buddhism, in the development of the understanding of faith, two historical layers can be distinguished: early Buddhism and the later Mahāyāna Buddhism. Some early twentieth-century scholars, such as Louis de La Vallée-Poussin, Arthur Berriedale Keith and Caroline Rhys Davids, have been criticized by Sri Lankan scholars for not distinguishing the two sufficiently.\n\nIn early Buddhist texts, such as Pāli texts, \"saddhā\" is usually translated as \"faith\", but with a different connotation than the English word. It is sometimes also translated as \"confidence\", as in confidence in doctrine. Faith in early Buddhism, in the words of scholar John Bishop, is essentially \"religious without being theistic\". It does not focus on a God as the centre of the religion. As opposed to Vedic Brahmanism, which preceded Buddhism, early Buddhist ideas of faith are more connected with the teachings that are learnt and practised, rather than focused on an outward deity. This does not mean that Buddhism's approach of reality had not been influenced by other traditions: at the time when Buddhism arose, several Indian religious communities taught a critical approach in understanding the truth.\n\nFaith is not just a mental commitment to a set of principles, but also has an affective quality. Scholars in early Buddhism distinguish between faith as joy and serenity, raising the mind to a higher level; and\nfaith as an energy producing self-confidence, required for dealing with temptations and for self-mastery. Because faith helps remove perplexity, it inspires and gives energy to the devotee.\n\nA Buddhist thus aspires to faith in the Triple Gem, that is, the Buddha, the dharma and the saṅgha, as well as the value of discipline. In early Buddhist texts, however, faith does not mean a hostile response or lack of recognition of other deities. Although the Buddha refutes the bloody sacrifice of animals, he does not in itself condemn peaceful offerings to deities, but considers those far less useful than alms offerings to the monastic saṅgha. Thus, everything is given its place in a hierarchy of usefulness, in which moral behavior is much more highly regarded than rites and rituals.\n\nFaith is the consequence of impermanence and a wise perception of suffering (\"dukkha\"). Reflection on suffering and impermanence leads the devotees to a sense of fear and agitation (), which motivates them to take refugee in the Triple Gem and cultivate faith as a result. Faith then leads to many other important mental qualities on the path to \"Nirvana\", such as joy, concentration and insight. Faith in itself, however, is never regarded as sufficient for the attainment of \"Nirvana\".\nA faithful Buddhist layman or laywoman is called an \"upāsaka or upāsika\", respectively. To become a layperson, no formal ritual is required. Some Pāli Canon passages, as well as later commentators such as Buddhaghosa, state that a Buddhist layman can go to heaven only by the strength of his faith in and love for the Buddha, yet in other passages faith is listed together with other virtues, such as morality, as qualities that lead the devotee to heaven. Regardless, faith is an important part of the ideal of Buddhist laypeople, as they are described to be in the habit of seeing the saṅgha, listening to their teachings, and most importantly, providing charity for the saṅgha. \"Saddhā\" in the lay life is strongly connected with \"dāna\" (generosity): the faithful gift is the most spiritually important gift.\n\nFaith is included in lists of virtues for laypeople, and is therefore described as a progressive quality for devotees, as a devotee who is new to the Buddhist religion is characterized as \"young in devotion\". Thus, there are various lists of virtues in which faith is included, and other early traditions have also given faith a prominent role, such as the Sarvāstivāda tradition. Moreover, early Buddhism describes faith as an important quality in stream-enterers, a state preceding enlightenment. In standard descriptions of people going forth (taking ordination as a monk), faith is mentioned as an important motivation. Despite this role, some Indologists such as André Bareau and Lily De Silva believed early Buddhism did not assign the same value to faith as in some other religions, such as Christianity. Bareau argued that \"Buddhism has no comparable [idea of] pure faith as in Christianity, ... The idea of blind faith, an absolute faith in a master's word, goes completely against the spirit of early Buddhism.\" Translator Caroline Rhys Davids disagreed with such statements, however, stating that \"faith is no less important than it is for all religions worthy of the name\". Indologist Richard Gombrich argues that Buddhism does not prescribe believing in someone or something to the extent of going against reason. Also, Gombrich believes the Buddha did not aim to create a religion that focuses on devotion to his person, though he recognizes that such devotion already started when the Buddha was still alive. Gombrich notes that there is a lot of material in the early scriptures emphasizing how important faith is, but argues that \"the growth of Buddhist rites and liturgies was surely a wholly unintended consequence of the Buddha's preaching\".\n\nSince early Buddhism, devotees expressed their faith through the act of taking refuge, which is threefold. In this, it centres on the authority of a Buddha as a supremely awakened being, by assenting to a role for a Buddha as a teacher of both humans and \"devās\" (heavenly beings). This often includes other Buddhas from the past, and Buddhas who have not yet arisen. Secondly, the taking of refuge honours the truth and efficacy of the Buddha's spiritual doctrine, which includes the characteristics of phenomenon () such as their impermanence (), and the path to liberation. The taking of refuge ends with the acceptance of worthiness of the community of spiritually developed followers (the saṅgha), which is mostly defined as the monastic community, but may also include lay people and even \"devās\" provided they are nearly or completely enlightened. Early Buddhism did not include \"bodhisattvas\" in the Three Refuges, because they were considered to still be on the path to enlightenment.\n\nEarly texts describe the saṅgha as a \"field of merit\", because early Buddhists regard offerings to them as particularly karmically fruitful. Lay devotees support and revere the saṅgha, of which they believe it will render them merit and bring them closer to enlightenment. At the same time, the Buddhist monk is given a significant role in promoting and upholding faith among laypeople. Although many examples in the canon are mentioned of well-behaved monks, there are also cases of monks misbehaving. In such cases, the texts describe that the Buddha responds with great sensitivity to the perceptions of the lay community. When the Buddha sets out new rules in the monastic code to deal with the wrongdoings of his monastics, he usually states that such behavior should be curbed, because it would not \"persuade non-believers\" and \"believers will turn away\". He expects monks, nuns and novices to not only to lead the spiritual life for their own benefit, but also to uphold the faith of the people. On the other hand, they are not to take the task of inspiring faith to the extent of hypocrisy or inappropriateness, for example, by taking on other professions apart from being a monastic, or by courting favours by giving items to the laypeople.\n\nThus, taking refuge is a form of aspiration to lead a life with the Triple Gem at its core. Taking refuge is done by a short formula in which one names the Buddha, the dharma and the saṅgha as refuges. In early Buddhist scriptures, taking refuge is an expression of determination to follow the Buddha's path, but not a relinquishing of responsibility.\n\nFaith can lead practitioners to take refuge in the Triple Gem, which opens them up to new spiritual experiences previously unknown to them. This is the devotional or mystical aspect of faith. But there is also a rational aspect, in that the value of taking refuge is rooted in personal verification. In the discourse (\"sutta\") called the \"Kalāma Sutta\", the Buddha argues against following sacred authority, tradition, a doctrine of logic, or respecting teachers for the mere fact that they are one's teachers. Knowledge coming from such sources is based on greed, hatred and delusion and Buddhist devotees should consider such knowledge impartially and not blindly. However, it should not all be refuted either. They should find out whether a teaching is true by personal verification of spiritual truth instead, distinguishing what leads to happiness and benefit, and what does not. Giving an example of such an approach, the Buddha states that the practice of abandoning greed, hatred and delusion will benefit the practitioner, regardless of whether there is such a thing as karmic retribution and rebirth. Thus, personal experience and judgement are emphasized in accepting the Buddha and Buddhism. A person should, however, also heed the counsel of the wise.\n\nIn the discourse called the \"Canki Sutta\", the Buddha points out that people's beliefs may turn out in two different ways: they might either be genuine, factual and not mistaken; or vain, empty and false. Thus, when a person holds a certain belief, they should not derive the conclusion \"Only this is true, anything else is false,\" but instead \"preserve the truth\" with the awareness \"This is my belief\". Thus, the discourse criticizes, among others, divine revelation, tradition and report, as leading to \"groundless faith\" and as an incomplete means of acquiring spiritual knowledge or truth. But in the \"Sandaka Sutta\", the Buddha also criticizes mere reasoning or logic as a means of attaining to truth. Instead, personal and direct intuitive knowledge are required to attain the truth, when such knowledge is not affected by bias. Thus, belief and faith are not considered sufficient for arriving at truth, even in spiritual matters where other religious traditions would refer to faith. The Buddha does not agree with traditions that demand blind faith in scriptures or teachers. In one discourse, when asked on which authority the Buddha bases his teachings on, he answers that he does not base them on tradition, faith, or reason, bur rather on personal experience as a source of authority.\n\nIn conclusion, the Buddhist devotee should verify moral judgment and truth by personal experience. This then leads to a provisional acceptance, called \"preserving the truth\". Faith goes hand-in-hand with an open attitude of willing to learn and try out, familiarizing oneself with the teaching. Through personal verification a person's faith deepens, ultimately changing from \"preserving\" to \"discovering\" the truth. This verification process involves ordinary experience, but also the yogic experience of cultivation of the mind. Furthermore, the Buddha applies these criteria to his own teaching: he is qualified to teach his dharma because he has verified it for himself, not learnt it from someone else or reasoned it out. The Buddha states in several discourses, including the \"Vimaṁsaka Sutta\", that his disciples should investigate even him as to whether he really is enlightened and pure in conduct, by observing him for a long time. Several people are described in the Pāli Canon observing the Buddha in such way, and arriving at grounded faith. This does not mean, however, that the Buddha does not accept any acts of reverence to his person: he teaches that devotional acts can help to uplift the lay practitioners' minds, and help them on the path to a better rebirth and enlightenment. Devotion is therefore a subject that requires the serious practitioner's interest.\n\nFaith is an initial trust in the Buddha as a spiritual teacher and an initial acceptance of the Buddha's teachings. Faith is considered of great benefit to a beginning practitioner of the Buddhist teaching. In the \"Cula-hatthipadopama Sutta\", the Buddha describes the path of enlightenment as starting with faith in him, but continuing with the practise of virtue, meditation and wisdom, culminating in the achievement of enlightenment. Thus, the initial faith provides the confidence to continue the path up unto the final aim, and for this reason, in early Buddhist teachings faith is usually listed as the first quality in progressive lists of virtues.\n\nBesides \"saddhā\", another word, \"pasāda\", and its related synonyms \"pasanna\" and \"pasidati\", are sometimes also translated as 'faith', but are given a higher value than \"saddhā\". \"Saddhā\" deepens when someone progresses along the spiritual path, and early texts sometimes describe this as \"pasāda\", and sometimes as \"bhakti\". \"Pasāda\" is faith and attraction towards a teacher, but is accompanied by clarity of mind, placidity and understanding. The practicing disciple develops and stabilizes his faith, basing it on spiritual insight. This leads his faith to become \"unshakeable\".\n\nThus, faith is by itself not enough to attain deliverance, but is a first step on the path leading to wisdom and enlightenment. Many teachings in early Buddhism mention faith as the first step, whereas wisdom is mentioned as the last. On the last stage of the Buddhist path, the attainment of \"arahant\", the practitioner has completely replaced faith by wisdom. At that point, the \"arahant\" no longer relies on faith at all, although at this stage sometimes a form of realized faith is described. Therefore, the Buddha praises most of his disciples for their wisdom, rather than their faith. The exception to that, the monk Vakkali, praised by the Buddha as \"the highest of those who had faith\", is also taught by the Buddha to concentrate on the teaching, rather than the Buddha's person. The Buddha is seen admonishing his disciple Ānanda in a similar way.\n\nIn the Pāli Canon, different approaches of faith are described. Developing faith in someone's person, even the Buddha himself, is of little use when it is too much connected with superficial features—such as physical appearance—and too little with the Buddha's teaching. Such an approach to faith is said to lead to affection and anger and has other disadvantages. It is an impediment to walking in the steps of the Buddha and attaining enlightenment, such as in the case of Vakkali. Faith and devotion must always go hand-in-hand with a sense of equanimity.\n\nDuring the period of emperor Ashoka (third to second century BCE), Buddhists placed more emphasis on faith, as Ashoka helped develop Buddhism as a popular religion to unify his empire. This new trend led to an increased worship of \"stūpas\" and an increase of Avadāna faith-based literature. In the second century CE, it became more common to depict the Buddha through images, and there was a shift in emphasis in Indian religion towards emotional devotionalism. This led to new perspectives in Buddhism, summarized by Buddhist studies scholar Peter Harvey as \"compassion, faith and wisdom\". These perspectives paved the way to the arising of Mahāyāna Buddhism.\n\nIn general, the role of faith in Mahāyāna Buddhism is similar to that of Theravāda—in both, faith is an unavoidable part of practice. Even in present-day Theravāda Buddhism, originating from Pāli Budhism, faith is still important in traditional Buddhist societies. Theravādins see faith in the Triple Gem as a protective force in daily life, especially when combined with a moral life. However, with the rising of Mahāyāna Buddhism, the depth and range of teachings on faith intensified. A great number of \"bodhisattvas\" became focus of devotion and faith, giving Mahāyāna Buddhism a \"theistic\" side. In early Buddhism, there were already some passages that suggested the Buddha and other enlightened beings had a world-transcending nature. Later Theravādins believed that Maitreya, the future Buddha, was waiting for them in heaven and they honoured him gradually more. Nevertheless, Mahāyānists took this idea much further. After the Buddha's death, there was a sense of regret among Buddhist communities about the absence of the Buddha in the world, and a desire to \"see\" the Buddha () and receive his power. Mahāyānists extended the meaning of the Triple Gem to include Buddhas that reside in heavens, and later called these \"sambhogakāya\" Buddhas ('embodiment of the enjoyment of the Dharma'). The increased emphasis on these celestial Buddhas, manifest all the time and everywhere, started to overshadow the role of Gautama Buddha in the Buddhist faith. Pure Land Buddhism mostly focused its faith to these celestial Buddhas, especially the Buddha Amitābha.\n\nStarting from this devotion to celestial Buddhas, advanced \"bodhisattva\" beings, representing Mahāyāna ideals, gradually became focus of an extensive worship and cult. By the sixth century, depiction of \"bodhisattvas\" in Buddhist iconography had become common, such as the \"bodhisattva\" Avalokiteśvara representing compassion, and Manjusri wisdom. Accounts about the \"bodhisattvas\" and their good deeds often included actions with great stakes, and it is likely that writers meant these accounts as devotional more than exemplary.\n\nThus, in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries the emphasis in Japanese Buddhism shifted from personal enlightenment to connecting with the universal Buddha nature and the realms in which the Buddhas live. With the development of the Mādhyamaka system of thought, the Buddha was no longer regarded as only a historical person, and the idea of essential unity in all living beings became an intrinsic part of Buddhist theory and practice. This development led to the devotion movement of Pure Land Buddhism, whereas in Zen Buddhism it led to the emphasis of seeking the Buddha Nature within oneself.\n\nTerms for faith that are primarily used in Mahāyāna Buddhism are \"Xin\" (Chinese) and \"shin\" (Japanese): these terms can refer to trust, but also an unquestioned acceptance of the object of one's devotion. They are also used, as it is in Chan and Zen Buddhism, with regard to a confidence that the Buddha nature (\"tathāgatagarbha\") is hidden within one's mind, and can be found as one suspends the habits of the mind. As such, Chan and Zen Buddhists consider faith as one of the \"Three Essentials\" in meditation practice, together with resolve and doubt. Pure Land Buddhists, on the other hand, make a distinction between the aspect of the mind which is faithful, and which is awakened by practising devotion and humility to the Buddha Amitābha, known as \"xinji\" (Chinese) or \"shinjin\" (Japanese); and the joy and confidence of being able to meet the Buddha Amitābha, known as \"xinfa\" (Chinese) or \"shingyō\" (Japanese). Pure Land traditions describe the awakening of faith as a transcendental experience beyond time, similar to a state preceding enlightenment. In the teachings of the Japanese Pure Land teacher Shinran, such experience of faith, which he called \"the Light\" (\"Japanese: kōmyō\") involved devotees not only feeling completely assured about the Buddha Amitābha as to his determination and wisdom to save them, but also feeling fully reliant on Amitābha because of their personal incapacity.\n\nDespite the important developments that took place in the arising of Mahayana Buddhism, it would be simplistic to state that no devotional movement existed before Mahāyāna. Devotionalism had become common in texts and practices in the same period that the Abhidhamma texts were compiled, even before Mahāyāna developed. Furthermore, later Theravāda Buddhism started emphasizing hagiographical accounts of the Buddha and \"bodhisattva\" more, and in many accounts the Buddha played a major role in other people's enlightenment.\n\nThe Lotus Sūtra, one of the most worshiped texts () in Southeast Asia , embraces the ideal of faith.\nIn medieval China and Japan, many miraculous legends were related to the Lotus Sūtra, contributing to its popularity. Scholars have suggested that the \"sūtra's\" emphasis on the Buddha as a father has helped make the \"sūtra\" popular.\n\nThe Lotus Sūtra was composed in the first two centuries of the Common Era. Part of the \"Cult of the Book\", Mahāyānists honoured and worshiped the Lotus Sūtra just like many other Mahāyāna sutras, similar to the worship of \"stūpas\" before the arising of Mahāyāna Buddhism. They worshiped the Lotus Sūtra more than most \"sūtras\". The \"sūtra\" itself describes different types of devotion to it—receiving and keeping, reading, reciting, teaching and transcribing it—and was actually worshiped in a large variety of ways. In some copies, scribes depicted every letter similar to a Buddha, enshrined in a \"stūpa\".\n\nAlthough the theoretical implications of the Lotus Sūtra influenced traditional scholars, the devotional practices surrounding the \"sūtra\" affected Buddhism even more. The Chinese Tiantai school (6th century) and its later Japanese form, Tendai, further promoted worship of the Lotus Sūtra, combined with devotion toward Amitābha Buddha. These schools believed the \"sūtra\" to be supreme among all of the Buddha's teachings, and leading to enlightenment in the present lifetime. Some schools of the Kamakura period (twelfth–fourteenth century), took reverence towards the Lotus Sūtra to the extent that they saw it as the single one vehicle or path of the dharma, and they believed only this practice led society to an ideal Buddha land.\n\nFor example, the Japanese teacher Nichiren (1222–82) promoted faith in and worship of the \"sūtra\" for this reason, criticizing other schools and types of worship sharply. Seeing the \"sutra\" as a prophecy of the mission of his own movement, Nichiren believed that through devotion to the \"sutra\" a Pure Land on earth could be realized, a land which is a depiction of the ideal of enlightenment in Māhayāna Buddhism. He taught that worship of the \"sūtra\" led the practitioner to unite with the primordial Buddha, of whom he believed all Buddhas are manifestations. Nichiren promoted the invocation of the sutra title based \"on faith alone\". Despite this great devotion to the Lotus Sūtra, Nichiren de-emphasized the study of the sutra, believing that chanting the title of the sutra, was the most effective practice for people living in the \"Age of Dharma Decline\". \n\nIn the present day, more than forty organizations continue upon the Nichiren tradition, some of which are lay organizations.\n\nIt is perhaps in the \"Pure Land\" \"sūtras\" that faith and devotion reach a pinnacle of soteriological importance. When devotion to celestial Buddhas developed in Mahāyāna Buddhism, the idea arose that these Buddhas were able to create 'Buddha-fields' ), or Pure Lands (). In Pure Land Buddhism, it is one's faith in the salvific compassion of the Buddha Amitābha, coupled with the earnest wish to enter his Pure Land that is said to bring deliverance there. This Pure Land prepares the devotee for entry into awakening and Nirvana. Pure Land Buddhism differed in many ways from most forms of Buddhism at the time, which were based on personal effort and techniques of self-mastery.\n\nMahāyānist Buddhists considered Amitābha (Sanskrit, 'limitless light') as one of the celestial Buddhas. The Longer Sukhāvatīvyūha Sūtra describes the Buddha Amitābha as a monk who, practicing under a Buddha in a previous age, vowed to create a land through his spiritual powers. Through this ideal land he would easily be able to guide many living beings to final enlightenment. He therefore vowed that once he had attained Buddhahood, just calling his name would be enough for living beings to be born in this Pure Land. Widespread in Japan, Korea, China and Tibet, devotion to the Buddha Amitābha arose in India around the beginning of the Common Era. Central to Pure Land Buddhism is the idea that the current age humans live in is the Age of Dharma Decline (\"Chinese: mofa\", \"Japanese: mappō\"), the final stage of the current Buddha's dispensation. Pure Land Buddhists believe that in this period people are severely limited in their own capability for attaining salvation. They must therefore rely on external power (the Buddha Amitābha) to find salvation, and delay their attainment of Nirvana to another life (during their rebirth in the Pure Land). This shared sentiment may have been due to the violent civil conflicts, famines, fires and decay of monastic institutions. But the idea of reliance on an external power might also have been a consequence of the Mahāyāna teachings on the nature of the Buddha, which made the distance between the unenlightened and Buddhahood much greater.\nPure Land Buddhism was established as an institution by the teacher Huiyuan (334–416 CE) on Mount Lu with the founding of the White Lotus Society. Shandao (613–681) started emphasizing reciting mantras in honour of Amitābha Buddha (\"Chinese\": \"nianfo\"; \"Japanese\": \"nembutsu\"), combined with several other practices. There seems to have been a paradox in Pure Land faith from the start, in that two ideals were advocated simultaneously: on the one hand, Pure Land teachers taught that the \"bodhisattvas\" who created their Pure Lands were exemplary in their own efforts to make merits as an energy to create the Pure Land from, inspiring the devotee to follow this example. On the other hand, it was taught that practitioners should solely rely on their devotion to the Buddhas in the Pure Land, in particular Amitābha, who would come to their rescue. In Japanese Pure Land Buddhism, the latter ideal became prevalent. But even in Japan, there was much debate as to what emphasis to give to the efforts of the devotee on the one hand, and the reliance on Amitābha Buddha and his vow on the other hand.\n\nPure Land Buddhism is currently still one of the most popular forms of religion in East Asia, and is practised by most East Asian monks. As of the 1990s, the older generation of Chinese people still used the Amitābha mantra in common everyday greetings.\n\nThe Tendai scholar Genshin (942–1017), Tendai priest Hōnen (1133–1212) and his student Shinran (1173–1262) applied Shandao's teachings in Japan, creating Pure Land Buddhism there as a separate school for the first time. They believed and taught that mindfully reciting the \"nembutsu\" would be enough to secure the faithful person's entrance into the Western Paradise. Although Hōnen had initially stated that repeating the mantra would make salvation more certain, Shinran later said that utterance would be enough for salvation (\"Japanese: ichinengi\"). Subsequent repetitions would be mere expressions of gratitude to the Buddha Amitābha, which also held for other religious routines and practices. Deep understanding of the Buddha's teachings, moral practice and meditation were not necessary, Shinran concluded, even considering some practices such as meditation as detrimental to reliance on Amitābha Buddha.\n\nThe concept of faith that Shinran adopted originated with Shandao: firstly, a sincere belief in the person of Amitābha Buddha; secondly, a deep trust in the vow that Amitābha Buddha had taken, and a conviction one's own low nature, and finally, a desire to dedicate the merits accrued from doing good deeds to be born in the Pure Land where Amitābha Buddha was believed to live. These three were together known as 'singleness of heart' (\"Japanese: isshin\"). Shinran further taught that such full faith would make people equal to Maitreya, the coming Buddha, because their full enlightenment would be irreversibly assured.\n\nShinran took Hōnen's teaching to the extreme: since he was convinced that he was destined to fall in hell without the help of the Buddha Amitābha, devotion to the Buddha Amitābha and trust in his vow was the single way to salvation. Whereas Hōnen had emphasized mostly devotion to the Buddha Amitābha, he did not do so exclusively: Shinran, on the other hand, taught a path of devotion to only the Buddha Amitābha. Thus, Shinran's Pure Land Buddhism focused on a limited set of practices, in contrast to the many practices of Tendai Buddhism. Characteristic of this period in Japanese Buddhism was the selective nature of faith: Japanese Pure Land teachers such as Shinran taught that Pure Land was the form of Buddhism that was the right path; other forms of Buddhism were criticized as ineffective for the Age of Dharma Decline. (This development of 'selective Buddhism', Japanese:\"senchaku bukkyō\", would also affect Nichiren Buddhism.) Thirdly, although early Buddhism already emphasized letting-go of self-conceit by practicing the dharma, in the later Pure Land tradition this was drawn further by stating that people should give up all \"self-power\" and let the healing power of Amitābha do the work of attaining salvation for them. This power was even believed to transcend the law of karma. Moreover, whereas Honen had taught faith could be built up by the \"nembutsu\" practice, Shinran stated that faith needed to practice, and could not be built up through it. A fourth characteristic of the movement was its democratic nature: in some passages Shinran stated that \"wicked\" people have just as much chance of attaining to the Pure Land as \"good\" people, an idea similar to the Christian concept of \"salvation of sinners\".\n\nThe old Buddhist orders highly condemned the movement, for starting a new school, distorting Buddhist teachings, and reviling Gautama Buddha. When the emperor felt that some of Honen's monastics acted inappropriately, Hōnen was banished to a remote province for four years. When Shinran started to teach against the custom of celibacy, stating it indicated a lack of trust in Amitābha Buddha, he was banished as well. Apart from Shinran, other priests that emphasized faith in their interpretations were also banished, as their teachings were often embraced by a following which did not accept the authority of the aristocrats in power.\n\nIn the fifteenth century, Rennyo (1415–99), a disciple of Shinran considered the second founder of Shinran's Jōdo Shinshu school, tried to reform the school. He opposed Shinran's idea that morality was not required to enter the Pure Land and meet Amitābha Buddha. He believed that morality should go hand-in-hand with faith, and was a way to express gratitude to Amitābha. Jōdo Shinshu is still the most popular and largest Buddhist sect in Japan today, surviving as the Nishi Hongwanji and the Higashi Hongwanji traditions.\n\nJust like in Jōdo Shinshu, some forms of Zen Buddhism arose as a reaction to Tendai Buddhism. Just like Pure Land Buddhism, faith also played a role here, that is, in Sōtō Zen. This form of Zen, also known as \"farmer's Zen\" because of its popularity in agrarian society, was developed by Dōgen (1200–53). Apart from the focus on meditation practice which was common in Zen Buddhism, Dōgen led a revival of interest in the study of the \"sūtras\", which he taught would inspire to a faith based on understanding. Inspired by Chinese Chan Buddhism, Dōgen was attracted to a return of the simple life as exemplified by the Buddha in the \"sūtras\". He further believed that sitting meditation was not only the path to enlightenment, but also a way to the Buddha nature within. The practitioner should have the faith that the Buddha nature is already within, Dōgen taught, although Dōgen did not believe this was in the form of a permanent self. Dōgen believed enlightenment was possible in this life—even the secular life—and he did not believe in the idea of the Age of Dharma Decline.\n\nIn East Asian Buddhism, there has been a strong focus on worship of the \"bodhisattva\" Avalokiteśvara. His cult originated in the northern borders of India, but he has been honoured for his compassion in many countries, such as China, Tibet, Japan, Sri Lanka and other parts of Southeast Asia, and among diverse levels of society.\n\nThe text called the \"Avalokiteśvara Sūtra\" states that Avalokiteśvara will help anyone who speaks his name with faith, fulfilling many kinds of wishes, and awakening people to their compassionate Buddha nature. Avalokiteśvara is strongly connected to the Buddha Amitābha, as it has been believed he lives in the same Pure Land, and will come to the rescue of those who invoke the name of the Buddha Amitābha. Focusing on both mundane benefits and salvation, devotion to Avalokiteśvara was promoted through the spread of the Lotus Sūtra, which includes a chapter about him, as well as through the Perfection of Wisdom \"sūtras\". Avalokiteśvara's devotees often depict him as a female, and in this female form she is known as Guanyin in China, originating from an association with the female Buddhist deity Tārā. Presently, Avalokiteśvara and his female form Guanyin are among the most depicted figures in Buddhism, and Guanyin is also worshiped by Daoists.\n\nIn Buddhism, Buddhas and other enlightened beings are the main focus of honour, comparable to that of gods in other religions. Although Buddhism does recognize the existence of deities, Buddhas and other enlightened beings are considered to be different, in that they are seen as outside of the cycle of existence. This does not mean that worship of deities did not exist in Buddhism. However, worship of deities has often been considered a form of superstition or a form of skillful means to guide the unenlightened to a better life, and not much more than that.\n\nIn the history of the diffusion of Buddhism, the relation between Buddhism and local deities was an important aspect of success, but Buddhists have often denied this because of local movements for orthodoxy. Furthermore, scholars have paid little interest to the role of local deities, since it is not covered by any of the standard academic disciplines studying Buddhism, such as Buddhist studies or anthropology. Nevertheless, deities had a role in Buddhist cosmology from early onward. Buddhist traditions saw them, however, as subordinate to the Buddha, and related many stories of them embracing the Buddhist teaching and even becoming protectors of it. When Buddhist teachers adopted existing cosmologies, but placed the Buddha on top of these systems, a Buddhist cosmology arose. Part of this process was depicting these deities as violent and disorganized, as opposed to Buddhism and its practitioners—this was not far from the truth, as Buddhist missionaries often came from more ordered and less violent cultures. In this way snake-like deities (\"nāga\"), bird-like deities and violent spirits which previously were the focus of pre-Buddhist cults became guardians of the Buddhist teaching. This process of adopting deities as part of Buddhism often occurred when Buddhist devotees or monks did not fully renounce their former devotions when embracing Buddhism. In the early Pāli scriptures, as well as in some customs in traditional Buddhist societies, traces can still be found of the period that Buddhism competed with \"nāga\" worship and assimilated some of its features.\n\nIn some Buddhist countries like Japan, a perspective arose of the human world as a microcosm of the macrocosmic realms of the Buddhas. This allowed for an increased tolerance of local traditions and folk religion, which were seen as connected with this macrocosmos, and thus part of Buddhism. All of these developments led Buddhism to include many deities into its system of faith, but each deity was given his place and role, subordinate to the Buddha. Even the exclusive Jōdo Shinshu taught not to denigrate the worship of Shinto deities called \"kami\", though the school did not allow the worship either. Furthermore, in many Buddhist countries ritual specialists of pre-Buddhist traditions were given a duty besides Buddhist monks. These specialists were usually laypeople, who performed these functions besides their normal lay life.\n\nBuddhism did not only appropriate deities into the religion, but also adapted its own teachings. According to religious studies scholar Donald Swearer, \"bodhisattvas\", relic worship and hagiographies of Buddhist masters were ways for Buddhism to adapt to pre-Buddhist deities and animistic beliefs, by fitting these into the Buddhist thought system. East Asian Buddhist movements like the Chinese White Lotus were transformations of such animistic beliefs. Such transformation of pre-Buddhist beliefs also explains the popularity of movements like Japanese Pure Land Buddhism under Hōnen and Shinran, even though in their teachings they opposed animism.\n\nBuddhism is the strongest form of non-western millenarianism. In many Buddhist traditions, there is a concept of a time when the world will end. The concept of a millenarian figure arising in the world at an apocalyptic age exists in many Buddhist traditions. In Buddhism, the growth and decline of the world is believed to come in cycles, and the declining period is believed to end with the arising of the \"cakravartin\" and finally, the coming of the future Buddha who will start a new prosperous period. Devotion to such a messianic Buddha figure has been part of almost every Buddhist tradition. Millenarian movements are typically a form of cultural defiance of the dominant culture, resisting \"the attempt to put reason and logic over faith\", according to political scientist William Miles.\n\nEast Asian traditions especially associated the end of the world with the coming of the future Buddha, that is Maitreya. The early Pāli texts only briefly mention him, but he features prominently in later Sanskrit traditions such as the Mahāsāṃghika. China, Burma and Thailand, came to honour him as part of millenarian movements, and they believed that Maitreya Buddha would arise during times of suffering and crisis, to usher in a new era of happiness. From the fourteenth century onward, White Lotus sectarianism arose in China, which encompassed beliefs in the coming of Maitreya during an apocalyptic age. Devotees of White Lotus societies believed that their faith in the correct teachings would save them when the new world era would come. White Lotus millenarianist beliefs would prove persistent, and survived all the way into the nineteenth century, when the Chinese associated the coming of Maitreya's age with political revolution. But the nineteenth century had not been the first century in which millenarian beliefs sparked political changes: during most of China's history, faith in and worship of Maitreya Buddha often inspired rebellions to change society for the better, to await Maitreya. Some of these rebellions led to powerful revolutions and the destruction of royal dynasties. Nevertheless, faith in the coming of a new era of Maitreya was not just political propaganda to incite rebellion, but was, in the words of Chinese Studies scholar Daniel Overmyer, \"rooted in continuously existing cultic life.\"\n\nIn Japan, millenarian trends can be observed in the idea of the Age of Dharma Decline, which was most prominent in Nichiren Buddhism. However, more full-fledged forms of millenarianism developed from the nineteenth century onward, with the arising of new religions.\n\nAlthough in pre-modern times some schools of Buddhism de-emphasized faith in Buddhist practice, the role of faith really was only criticized widely in modern times. During the eighteenth century Enlightenment, western intellectuals came to see religion as culturally relative, as opposed to the single truth of reason. By the end of the nineteenth century, this view on religion had informed how the West responded to Buddhism. Western writers such as Edwin Arnold began to present Buddhism as the answer to the contradiction between science and religion, as a rational religion devoid of culture. As western science and rationalism spread to Asia, intellectuals in Asian countries such as in Sri Lanka developed similar ideas. Because of the threat of colonial powers and Christianity, and the rise of an urban middle class, at the end of the nineteenth century Sri Lankan Buddhism started to change. Described by present-day scholars as \"Buddhist modernism\" or \"protestant Buddhism\", westerners and British-educated Sri Lankans advocated Buddhism as a rational philosophy, free from blind faith and idolatry, congruent with science and modern ideas. They saw traditional practices such as relic worship and other devotional routines as corruptions of an ideal, rational form of Buddhism, while assimilating Victorian and other modern values and designating them as traditional Buddhist, often without awareness of their roots.\nIn Japan, from the Meiji period onward, the Japanese heavily attacked Buddhism as a foreign and superstitious belief system. In response to this, Buddhist schools such as Zen developed a movement called \"New Buddhism\" (\"Japanese: shin bukkyo\"), emphasizing rationalism, modernism and warrior ideals. Still in Japanese Buddhism, in the twentieth century, a critical response to traditional Buddhism arose, led by the two academics Hakamaya Noriaki and Matsumoto Shirō, called Critical Buddhism. Noriaki and Shirō's school of thought has criticized Chinese and Japanese Buddhist ideas for undermining critical thinking, promoting blind faith and laxity to improve society. East Asian Studies scholar Peter Gregory comments, however, that the attempt of Critical Buddhists at finding a pure, unadulterated Buddhism, ironically, reeks with the very same essentialism it criticizes. Other scholars have made similar arguments. Critical Buddhism criticizes blind faith and a belief in the Buddha Nature, but it does reserve a place for faith: Buddhist faith, states Noriaki, is the uncompromising critical capacity to distinguish between true and false Buddhism, and to commit to what is true Buddhism. Noriaki contrasts such true faith with the Japanese ideal of harmony (\"wa\"), which he believes goes hand-in-hand with uncritical acceptance of non-Buddhist ideals, including violence.\n\nDespite these widespread modernist trends in Asia, scholars have also observed decline of rationalism and resurfacing of pre-modern religious teachings and practices: From the 1980s onward, they observed that in Sri Lankan Buddhism devotional religiosity, magical practices, honouring deities as well as moral ambiguity had become more widespread, as the effects of Protestant Buddhism were becoming weaker. Richard Gombrich and anthropologist Gananath Obeyesekere have therefore spoken of \"\" to describe this trend.\n\nWith the spread of Buddhism to the West in the twentieth century, devotional practices still played an important role among Asian ethnic communities, though much less so in Western \"convert\" communities. The influence of Buddhist modernism could also be felt in the West, where lay-led organizations often offered meditation courses without much emphasis on devotion. Writers like D. T. Suzuki described meditation as a trans-cultural and non-religious practise, which greatly appealed to westerners. Thus, in Western, secular Buddhism, meditation was more emphasized than in traditional Buddhist communities, and faith or devotion less. Just like in modern Asia, the rational and intellectual aspects of Buddhism were mostly emphasized in the West, as Buddhism was often favourably compared with Christianity. The author and Buddhist teacher Stephen Batchelor has endeavoured to advocate a form of Buddhism which he believes to be original, ancient Buddhism, as it was before it became \"institutionalized as a religion\".\n\nIn contrast to these typical modernist trends, it has also been observed that some western Buddhist communities show great commitment to their practice and belief, and for that reason are more traditional religious than most forms of New Age spirituality. Furthermore, several Buddhist teachers have spoken out against interpretations of Buddhism that do away with all faith and devotion, including translator and monastic Bhikkhu Bodhi. Bhikkhu Bodhi argues that many Westerners have misunderstood the \"Kalāma Sutta\" , as Buddhism teaches that faith and personal verification should go hand-in-hand, and faith should not be discarded.\n\nThe latter part of the twentieth century has seen a unique situation arising with regard to Buddhism in the West: for the first time since Buddhism left India many Buddhist traditions are able to communicate in the same language. This has led to an increased eclecticism between the different traditions. Furthermore, with the increase of scientific research in meditation methods, prominent Buddhist authors are pointing to scientific evidence to verify whether Buddhist practice is really effective or not, rather than referring to scriptural or monastic authority.\n\nIn 1956, the Indian \"dalit\" (untouchable) and icon Ambedkar (1891–1956) led a mass conversion to Buddhism, starting a new Buddhist movement (\"Navayāna\"). This new movement led to a pattern of mass conversions, some of them reaching up to 500,000 people, simultaneously converting. \"Dalits\" that were dissatisfied with the Indian caste system took refuge in Buddhism as a way out. In the 2010s, violent incidents affecting \"dalits\" led to a revival of mass conversions in Gujarat and other states. Some converts admit that the conversion is a political choice to reorganize themselves, as conversion could help them to no longer be classified by the Hindu caste system.\n\nScholars have described Ambedkar's perspective on Buddhism as secular and modernist rather than religious, as he emphasized the atheist aspects of Buddhism and rationality, and rejected Hindu soteriology and hierarchy. Other scholars have interpreted Ambedkarism as a form of critical traditionalism, in which Ambedkar reinterprets traditional Hindu concepts rather than rejecting them altogether. Specifically, scholar states that Ambedkar's \"Dalit\" conversions give belief a more central, worldly role than it had before. Cross-cultural researcher Ganguly Debjani, however, points at religious elements in Ambedkar's description of the Buddha's life and teaching, and states that Ambedkar deifies the Buddha as the \"fount of Rationality\". Several scholars have argued that the Buddha and Ambedkar are honoured by his followers through traditional devotional practices (), such as story-telling, songs and poetry, festivals, and images, despite Ambedkar's rejection of such practices.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53296278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53296278", "title": "Faith vs. Fact: Why Science and Religion are Incompatible", "text": "Faith vs. Fact: Why Science and Religion are Incompatible\n\nFaith Versus Fact: Why Science and Religion are Incompatible is a 2015 book by biologist Jerry Coyne concerning the relationship between science and religion. Coyne argues that religion and science are incompatible, by surveying the history of science and stating that both religion and science make claims about the universe, yet only science is open to the fact that it may be wrong.\n\nCoyne was astonished that after having published his book, \"Why Evolution is True\", the proportion of creationists in America still remained between 40-46%. He felt that faith was the reason that kept them from accepting the facts and evidence for evolution.\n\nCoyne defines science as \"a collection of methods\" which yield knowledge which may be rejected or confirmed via testing. With this definition in hand, he went on to argue that religion and science were inherently incompatible \"because they have different methods of getting knowledge about reality, different ways of assessing the reliability of that knowledge, and, in the end, arrive at conflicting conclusions about the universe.\" He believes that theistic religions make claims which conflict with science in three ways: methodology, outcomes, and philosophy.\nA substantial portion of his book criticizes theistic evolution, arguing that if God were to use evolution as a method of creation the evolutionary process should show signs of directionality.\n\nKirkus Reviews lauded the book as \"important...[it] deserves an open-minded readership.\" They add, \"although he makes a clear and cogent argument, he may find that, once again, he is preaching to his own choir.\"\n\nRau Olson of \"Booklist Online\" wrote, \"none of [the New atheists] makes the case for the final divorce of religion and science, with permanent restraining orders against harassment and stalking of science by religion, better than Coyne\".\n\nSome reviewers felt the book did not make a very strong case for why religion and science could not co-exist. Biologist Austin L. Hughes wrote for conservative magazine \"The New Atlantis\": \"what Coyne is attempting in Faith Versus Fact falls under the general heading of philosophy. But his philosophical training seems inadequate to the task, since he fails to develop a consistent terminology and to construct arguments with any degree of rigor.\" He feels that Coyne's arguments attempting to show that doubt is necessary, or endemic, to science eventually fall on themselves, writing, \"but if we push our doubt far enough, won't we eventually end up doubting even science?\"\n\nScience writer John Horgan wrote a highly critical review of the book in Scientific American stating that, \"Mr. Coyne repeatedly reminds us that science, unlike religion, promotes self-criticism, but he is remarkably lacking in this virtue himself. He rejects complaints that some modern scientists are guilty of 'scientism,' which I would define as excessive trust—faith!—in science. Actually, \"Faith vs. Fact\" serves as a splendid specimen of scientism. Mr. Coyne disparages not only religion but also other human ways of engaging with reality. The arts, he argues, 'cannot ascertain truth or knowledge,' and the humanities do so only to the extent that they emulate the sciences. This sort of arrogance and certitude is the essence of scientism.\"\n"}
{"id": "16144347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16144347", "title": "Freedom of religion in Myanmar", "text": "Freedom of religion in Myanmar\n\nMyanmar has been under the rule of repressive authoritarian military regimes since 1962. After the 1974 Socialist constitution was suspended in 1988, constitutional protection of religious freedom has not existed, after the bloody suppression of the 8888 Uprising. The authorities generally permitted most adherents of registered religious groups to worship as they choose; however, the government imposed restrictions on certain religious activities and is accused of abusing the right to freedom of religion.\n\nMyanmar has a population of 54 million (2009 est.), of which 90% profess Theravada Buddhism (roughly 48 million), 4% Christianity (1.65 million Baptists and 550,000 Roman Catholics), 4% Islam (2.2 million), 1% Hinduism (550,000), and the remaining 1% consists of Mahayana Buddhism, Vajrayana Buddhism and Animism.\n\nThe government is accused of actively promoting Theravada Buddhism (practiced by 90% of the population) over other religions, particularly among members of ethnic minorities. Christian and Islamic groups continued to have trouble obtaining permission to repair existing places of worship or build new ones. Anti-Muslim violence continued, as did the close monitoring of Muslim activities. Although there were no new reports of forced conversions of non-Buddhists, the government applied pressure on students and poor youth to convert to Buddhism. Adherence or conversion to Buddhism is generally a prerequisite for promotion to senior government and military ranks.\n\nEvangelism is banned, although Sunday schools and church activities are not affected.\n\nThe popular form of Buddhism in Myanmar is Theravada Buddhism with a mixture of astrology, numerology, fortune telling, and veneration of indigenous pre-Buddhist era deities called \"nats\". Buddhist monks, including novices, number more than 400,000 and depend on the laity for their material needs, including clothing and daily donations of food. A small population of Buddhist nuns also exist. The principal minority religious groups include Christian groups (mostly Baptists (~70%) and Roman Catholics (~25%), and a small number of Anglicans, and an array of other Protestant denominations), Muslims (mostly Sunni), Hindus, and practitioners of traditional Chinese and indigenous religions. According to official statistics, almost 90 percent of the population practice Buddhism, 6 percent practice Christianity, and 4 percent practice Islam. The US government claims that the numbers might be distorted in favour of Buddhists, however, this cannot be verified. There is also a tiny Jewish community in Yangon, of about 25 adherents and a synagogue, but there is no resident rabbi to conduct services.\n\nThe country is ethnically diverse, with some correlation between ethnicity and religion. Theravada Buddhism is the dominant religion among the majority Burman ethnic group and among the Shan, Arakanese, and Mon ethnic minorities of the eastern, western, and southern regions. Christianity is the dominant religion among the Chin ethnic group of the Western region and has some adherents amongst the Kachin and Naga ethnic groups, whom continue to practice traditional indigenous religions. Christianity is also practised widely among the Karen and Karenni ethnic groups of the southern and eastern regions, although many Karen and Karenni are Buddhist. In addition, some ethnic Indians are Christian. Hinduism is practised chiefly by Burmese of Indian origin, who are concentrated in major cities and in the south central region. Islam is practised widely in Rakhine State, where it is the dominant religion of the Rohingya minority, and in Rangoon, Ayeyarwady, Magway, and Mandalay Divisions. Some Burmans, Indians, and ethnic Bengalis also practice Islam. Chinese ethnic minorities generally practice traditional Chinese religions. Traditional indigenous beliefs are practised widely among smaller ethnic groups in the highland regions. Practices drawn from those indigenous beliefs persist widely in popular Buddhist rituals, especially in rural areas.\n\nHighly authoritarian military regimes have ruled the country since 1962. The current military government, the State Peace and Development Council (SPDC), has governed without a constitution or legislature since 1988. Most adherents of religious groups that register with the authorities generally are allowed to worship as they choose; however, the Government imposes restrictions on certain religious activities and frequently abuses the right to religious freedom.\n\nAlthough about 90% of the populace adhere to Theravada Buddhism and another 1% to Mahayana Buddhism, there is no official state religion. However, since independence, successive governments, both civilian and military, have supported and associated themselves conspicuously with Buddhism.\nMost famous of all would be the first prime minister of independent Myanmar, U Nu. In 1961 the Government's push to make Buddhism the state religion failed due to protests by religious minorities. The Ministry of Religious Affairs includes a Department for the Promotion and Propagation of Sasana (Buddhist teaching).\n\nState-controlled news media frequently depict or describe government officials paying homage to Buddhist monks, making donations at pagodas throughout the country, officiating at ceremonies to open, improve, restore, or maintain pagodas, and organising ostensibly voluntary \"people's donations\" of money, food, and uncompensated labour to build or refurbish Buddhist religious shrines throughout the country. State-owned newspapers routinely feature front-page banner slogans quoting from Buddhist scriptures. The Government has published books of Buddhist religious instruction.\n\nThe Department for the Perpetuation and Propagation of the Sasana handles the Government's relations with Buddhist monks and Buddhist schools. The Government continues to fund two state Sangha universities in Yangon and Mandalay to train Buddhist monks under the control of the state-sponsored State Monk Coordination Committee (\"Sangha Maha Nayaka Committee\" or SMNC). The state-sponsored International Theravada Buddhist Missionary University (ITBMU) in Yangon, was opened in 1998 to \"share the country's knowledge of Buddhism with the people of the world.\" The main language of instruction is English. The University also teaches non-citizens about Theravada Buddhism.\n\nSince the 1960s Christian and Islamic groups have had difficulty importing religious literature into the country. All publications, religious and secular, remain subjected to control and censorship. It is illegal to import translations of the Bible in indigenous languages. Officials have occasionally allowed local printing or photocopying of limited copies of religious materials, including the Qur'an (with the notation that they were for internal use only) in indigenous languages without prior approval by government censors.\n\nVirtually all organisations, religious or otherwise, must register with the Government. A government directive exempts \"genuine\" religious organisations from official registration; however, in practice only registered organisations can buy or sell property or open bank accounts. These requirements lead most religious organisations to seek registration. Religious organisations register with the Ministry of Home Affairs with the endorsement of the Ministry for Religious Affairs. Leaders of registered religious groups have more freedom to travel than leaders of unrecognised organizations and members of their congregations.\n\nReligious affiliation is indicated on government-issued identification cards that citizens have. Citizens are also required to indicate their religion on official application forms, such as passports.\n\nMuslims in Rakhine State, on the western coast, and particularly those of the Rohingya minority group, continued to experience the severest forms of legal, economic, educational, and social discrimination. The Government denies citizenship status to Rohingyas because their ancestors allegedly did not reside in the country at the start of British colonial rule, as required by the country's citizenship law. The Muslims assert that their presence in the area predates the British arrival by several centuries. On 2 April 2007, five U.N. Special Rapporteurs and an Independent Expert called on the Government to repeal or amend its 1982 Citizenship Law to insure compliance with international human rights obligations. Without citizenship status, Rohingyas do not have access to secondary education in state-run schools because the Government reserves secondary education for citizens only,\n\nOfficial public holidays include numerous Buddhist holy days in accordance to the Buddhist majority, as well as some Christian, Hindu, and Islamic holy days.\n\nThe Government made some efforts to promote mutual understanding among practitioners of different religious groups.\n\nIn October 2006 Minister of Religious Affairs Brigadier General Thura Myint Maung, invited leaders from the four main religious groups (Buddhist, Muslim, Christian and Hindu) to a meeting in which the Minister denounced the 2006 Annual Report on International Religious Freedom. He told the religious leaders they knew there was freedom of religion in the country and claimed the Government always granted permits for religious gatherings and permitted renovations of mosques and churches. The Muslim leaders reportedly asked the Minister to unseal mosques in the central region that the Government closed following communal riots in earlier years and for permission to complete madrassahs that were under construction. The leaders reportedly were required to sign statements that they enjoyed religious freedom and were requested to write a letter stating that their religious communities were allowed to practice their faith freely in the country, which the ministry would display on its official website. During a discussion that followed, the representatives of the Islamic Religious Affairs Council (IRAC) stated that while there had been progress on some religious matters, there was room for further improvement. The Minister reportedly stopped further discussion and adjourned the meeting abruptly.\n\nThe Government continued to show preference for Theravada Buddhism while controlling the organisation and restricting the activities and expression of the Buddhist clergy (Sangha), although some monks have resisted such control. Based on the 1990 Sangha Organization Law, the Government banned any organisation of Buddhist monks other than the nine state-recognized monastic orders. These nine orders submit to the authority of the SMNC, the members of which are indirectly elected by monks. Violations of this ban are punishable by immediate public defrocking, and often by criminal penalties.\n\nAccording to state-owned media reports, the Union Solidarity and Development Association (USDA), a government-sponsored mass organisation in which participation often is compulsory, organised courses in Buddhist culture attended by millions of persons. It was not possible to verify this claim independently.\n\nThere are reports that the ITBMU, while in principle open to the public, accepted only candidates who were approved by government authorities or recommended by a senior, progovernment Buddhist abbot.\n\nThe Government infiltrated or monitored the meetings and activities of virtually all organisations, including religious organisations. The meetings and activities of religious groups were also subject to broad government restrictions on freedom of expression and association. The Government subjected all media, including religious publications, and on occasion sermons, to control and censorship.\n\nDuring the reporting period, the Government harassed a group of Buddhist worshippers who visited the Shwedagon Pagoda in Rangoon every Tuesday, the day of the week that Aung San Suu Kyi was born, to pray at the Tuesday pillar for her release and the release of all political prisoners in the country. Authorities sometimes used the pro-regime USDA to block the group from entering the pagoda grounds and make them pray outside the entrance or to shout and clap loudly to drown out their prayers. After Naw Ohn Hla, the spokesperson for the worshippers, protested to the pagoda authorities and wrote letters to regime leaders, local authorities again allowed the group access to the pagoda to pray; however, authorities ordered the pagoda janitors to throw buckets of water on the platform around the Tuesday pillar so that the worshippers would have to kneel in water. They also played music through loudspeakers at full volume to drown out the sound of the group's prayers. Despite official harassment, including physical and verbal abuse by the pro-regime USDA and the People's Militia (Myanmar), the worshippers continued to pray every Tuesday during the reporting period. In May 2007 many more groups began praying at different pagodas on Tuesdays for Aung San Suu Kyi's release upon expiration of her detention order on 27 May.\n\nAuthorities frequently refused to approve requests for gatherings to celebrate traditional Christian and Islamic holidays and restricted the number of Muslims that could gather in one place. For instance, in satellite towns surrounding Rangoon, Muslims are only allowed to gather for worship and religious training during the major Muslim holidays. In late 2006 a prominent Muslim religious organisation planned to hold a golden jubilee in Mawlamyine, Mon State, to celebrate the founding of their organisation. After they requested permission to hold the event, the local Division Commander, Brigadier General Thet Naing Win, called representatives of all non-Buddhist religious organisations in the area to a meeting. He informed them that permission would not be granted to hold any religious functions or ceremonies due to security reasons. The Muslim organisation then altered its plans and held a low-profile ceremony to honour pilgrims who had been granted official permission by the Ministry of Religious Affairs to attend the Hajj.\n\nOn 22 March 2007, authorities detained Htin Kyaw, when he publicly protested the denial of his religious freedom to become a monk. Htin Kyaw had participated in earlier demonstrations against deteriorating economic and social conditions. Rangoon authorities then enforced a 1995 prohibition against any opposition political party member from being ordained as a monk or religious leader and forbade the abbot of a monastery in North Okkalapa in Rangoon to ordain Htin Kyaw.\n\nOn 23 January 2007, Christian Solidarity Worldwide (CSW) released a report that documented the Government's restrictions, discrimination, and persecution against Christians in the country for more than a decade. Subsequently, the Ministry of Religious Affairs pressured religious organisations in the country to publish statements in government-controlled media denying they had any connection with CSW or to condemn the report, and to reject the idea that religious discrimination existed in the country.\n\nThe Government continued to discriminate against members of minority religious groups, restricting their educational, proselytising, and church-building activities.\n\nGovernment authorities continued to prohibit Christian clergy from proselytising in some areas. Christian groups reported that several times during the period covered by this report, local authorities denied applications for residency permits of known Christian ministers attempting to move into a new township. The groups indicated this was not a widespread practice, but depended on the individual community and local council. In some instances, local authorities reportedly confiscated National Identity Cards of new converts to Christianity. Despite this, Christian groups reported that church membership grew, even in predominantly Buddhist regions of the country.\n\nDuring the reporting period, authorities in the Rangoon area closed several house churches because they did not have proper authorisation to hold religious meetings. Other Rangoon home churches remained operational only after paying bribes to local officials. At the same time, the authorities made it difficult, although not impossible, to obtain approval for the construction of \"authorized\" churches.\n\nOn 1 October 2006, the Agape Zomi Baptist Church, with more than 1,000 members, had to stop its weekly services at Asia Plaza Hotel in Rangoon after the hotel management refused to continue renting them a conference room. The hotel management claimed the township authorities had ordered them to stop renting its facility to the group, which had worshipped at the hotel for approximately one year.\n\nIn August 2006 NaSaKa, the Government's border security force, ordered eight Rohingya Muslim communities in Rathedaung Township, Rakhine State to close their religious centres, including 5 mosques, 4 madrassahs, 18 moqtobs (premadrassahs), and 3 hafez khanas (Qur'an reciting centres). Later, local authorities allowed two madrassahs to reopen. NaSaKa ordered the closures because it stated that the institutions were not officially registered. According to Muslim sources, government officials have not allowed any madrassahs to register officially. Muslim religious organisations are appealing the closures.\n\nOn 19 August 2006, government officials prohibited a Baptist church in Rangoon from conducting a literacy workshop for its youth. The authorities stated that the church must seek advance permission to hold such programs, although the church had held similar programs for the past four years without needing permission. Authorities also reportedly censored the same Baptist church's weekly order of service.\n\nIn February 2006 Insein Township authorities also ordered a Chin evangelist to stop holding worship services in his house church in Aung San ward. In November 2005 authorities in Insein Township, Rangoon, pressured evangelical Christians of the 20-year-old Phawkkan Evangelical Church to sign \"no worship\" agreements. Some signed the agreements out of fear, but others refused. In February 2006 the authorities issued an order banning worship at the church.\n\nThe Religious Affairs Ministry has stipulated in the past that permission to construct new religious buildings \"depends upon the population of the location;\" however, there appeared to be no correlation between the construction of pagodas and the demand for additional places of Buddhist worship. In most regions of the country, Christian and Islamic groups that sought to build small places of worship on side streets or other inconspicuous locations were able to do so only with informal approval from local authorities; however, informal approval from local authorities created a tenuous legal situation. When local authorities or conditions have changed, informal approvals for construction have been rescinded abruptly and construction halted. In some cases, authorities demolished existing church buildings.\n\nChristian groups continued to have trouble obtaining permission to buy land or build new churches in most regions. Sometimes the authorities refused because they claimed the churches did not possess proper property deeds, but access to official land titles was extremely difficult due to the country's complex land laws and government title to most land. In some areas, permission to repair existing places of worship was easier to acquire. Muslims reported that the authorities banned them from constructing new mosques anywhere in the country, and they had great difficulty obtaining permission to repair or expand their existing structures. Historical mosques in Mawlamyine, Mon State, Sittwe, Rakhine State, and other areas of the country continued to deteriorate because authorities would not allow routine maintenance. Some authorities reportedly destroyed informal houses of worship or unauthorised religious construction they discovered. In early 2007, Muslims in Northern Rakhine State, repaired a mosque that had been severely damaged in a storm. When the authorities discovered this, they destroyed the repairs that had been made to the mosque. Buddhist groups have not experienced similar difficulties in obtaining permission to build new pagodas, monasteries, or community religious halls.\n\nDuring the reporting period, the Catholic Church established new dioceses in Kachin and Shan states. The bishop of the new diocese in Pekon, Shan State, decided to build his residence on a plot of land long owned by the church. Brigadier General Myo Lwin, commander of Military Operation Command Seven at Pekon, ordered the partially built structure demolished, confiscated the land, and extended his own compound fence to enclose the church property. Despite appeals to higher authorities, the Church has not recovered its property.\n\nThe Myanmar Institute of Theology (MIT) in Insein Township, Rangoon is the premier seminary for Baptists throughout the country. To accommodate a rapidly increasing enrolment, MIT raised funds to build a new classroom building and purchase building supplies. At the last minute, government officials refused to grant a building permit. Four years later, piles of construction materials still litter the campus where they gather mildew and rust. In contrast, the Government openly supports Buddhist seminaries and permits them to build large campuses.\n\nSome Christians in Chin State claimed that the authorities have not authorised the construction of any new churches since 1997. However, newly built churches are evident in several parts of the state. A Christian leader in Chin State stated that to obtain permission to repair or build a church he first had to obtain permission from the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the Ministry of Progress of Border Areas and National Races and Development Affairs (NaTaLa), the Immigration Department and the Township Peace and Development Committee. In Rangoon, Mandalay, and elsewhere, authorities allowed construction of new community centres by various Christian groups only if they agreed not to hold services there or erect Christian signs.\n\nIt remained extremely difficult for Muslims to get permission to repair existing mosques, although internal renovations were allowed in some cases. In some parts of Rakhine State, authorities cordoned off mosques and forbade Muslims to worship in them.\n\nState censorship authorities continued to enforce special restrictions on local publication of the Bible, the Qur'an, and Christian and Islamic publications in general. The most onerous restriction was a list of more than 100 prohibited words that the censors would not allow in Christian or Islamic literature because they are \"indigenous terms\" or derived from the Pali language long used in Buddhist literature. Many of these words have been used and accepted by some of the country's Christian and Islamic groups since the colonial period. Organizations that translate and publish non-Buddhist religious texts were appealing these restrictions. In addition, censors have sometimes objected to passages of the Old Testament and the Qur'an that they believe approve the use of violence against nonbelievers. There have been no reports of arrests or prosecutions for possession of any traditional religious literature in recent years.\n\nAuthorities also restricted the quantity of bibles and Qur'ans brought into the country. During the reporting period, however, individuals continued to carry Bibles and Qur'ans into the country in small quantities for personal use. There were no reports that authorities intercepted or confiscated Qur'ans at border entry points, but religious leaders complained that postal workers steal them to sell on the black market.\n\nIn general, the Government has not allowed permanent foreign religious missions to operate in the country since the mid-1960s, when it expelled nearly all foreign missionaries and nationalised all private schools and hospitals, which were extensive and affiliated mostly with Christian religious organisations. The Government is not known to have paid any compensation in connection with these extensive confiscations. Christian groups, including Catholics and Protestants, have brought in foreign clergy and religious workers for visits as tourists, but they have been careful to ensure that the Government did not perceive their activities as proselytising. Some Christian theological seminaries also continued to operate, as did several Bible schools and madrassahs. The Government has allowed some members of foreign religious groups, such as The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), to enter the country to provide humanitarian assistance or English language training to government officials. Some of these groups did not register with the Myanmar Council of Churches, but were able to conduct religious services without government interference.\n\nThe Government allowed members of all religious groups to establish and maintain links with coreligionists in other countries and to travel abroad for religious purposes, subject to the country's restrictive passport and visa issuance practices, foreign exchange controls, and government monitoring, which extended to all international activities by all citizens regardless of religion. The Government sometimes expedited its burdensome passport issuance procedures for Muslims making the Hajj or Buddhists going on pilgrimage to Bodhgaya, India, although it limited the number of pilgrims. In 2006 government officials allowed approximately 3,000 Muslims to participate in the Hajj. The procedure reportedly became more cumbersome in 2006 due to the relocation of most government offices from Rangoon to Nay Pyi Taw. Observers speculate that had this not been the case, more Muslims would have gone. During the period covered by this report, immigration and passport officials continued to use the occasion of the Hajj to extort bribes from would-be travellers. Government and private travel agencies processed approximately 2,500 Buddhist pilgrims to travel to Bodhgaya in India.\n\nNon-Buddhists continued to experience employment discrimination at upper levels of the public sector. Few have ever been promoted to the level of Director General or higher. There were no non-Buddhists who held flag rank in the armed forces, although a few Christians reportedly achieved the rank of lieutenant colonel. The Central Executive Committee of the largest opposition group—the National League for Democracy—also included no non-Buddhists, although individual members from most religious groups in the country supported the party. The Government discouraged Muslims from enlisting in the military, and Christian or Muslim military officers who aspired for promotion beyond the rank of major were encouraged by their superiors to convert to Buddhism. Some Muslims who wished to join the military reportedly had to list \"Buddhist\" as their religion on their application, though they were not required to convert.\n\nRohingya Muslims, although essentially treated as illegal foreigners, were not issued Foreigner Registration Cards. Instead, the Government gave some of them \"Temporary Registration Cards\" (TRC). UNHCR estimated that only 650,000 of the approximately 800,000 Rohingyas possessed TRCs. Authorities have insisted that Muslim men applying for TRCs submit photos without beards. The authorities did not allow government employees of the Islamic faith, including village headmen, to grow beards, and dismissed some who already had beards. The authorities also did not consider many non-Rohingya Muslims to be citizens. In order for these Muslims to receive National Registration Cards and passports, they must pay large bribes. Ethnic Burman Muslims pay less than Muslims from ethnic minority groups (primary those of Indian or Bengali descent).\n\nIn 2006 a prominent Muslim religious organisation asked the Rakhine State Peace and Development Council Chairman, the Regional Military Commander, and the Ministry of Religious Affairs to lift marriage restrictions for Rohingya Muslims in Rakhine State. At the end of the reporting period, they had yet to receive a response.\n\nIn Rangoon, Muslims can usually obtain birth certificates for newborns, but local authorities refused to allow them to place the names of the babies on their household registers.\n\nAuthorities generally did not grant permission to Rohingya or Muslim Arakanese to travel from their hometowns for any purpose; however, permission was sometimes obtainable through bribery. Non-Arakanese Muslims were given more freedom to travel; however, they were also required to seek permission, which was usually granted after a bribe is paid. Muslims residing in Rangoon could visit beach resort areas in Thandwe, Rakhine State, but could not return to Rangoon without the signature of the Regional Military Commander. Those with money were able to bribe local officials to return. Muslims residing outside of Rakhine State often were barred from return travel to their homes if they visit other parts of Rakhine State.\n\nRohingyas did not have access to state-run schools beyond primary education and were unable to obtain employment in any civil service positions. Muslim students from Rakhine State who completed high school were not granted permits to travel outside the state to attend college or university. In lieu of a diploma, Rohingya high school graduates received a sheet of paper that stated they would receive a diploma upon presentation of a citizenship card; however, Rohingyas can never obtain such a card.\n\nMany of the approximately 25,000 Rohingya Muslims remaining in refugee camps in Bangladesh refused to return because they feared human rights abuses, including religious persecution.\n\nAung San Suu Kyi, leader of the opposition National League for Democracy (NLD), has been in prison or house arrest since 2003, when forces allied with the Government attacked her and her convoy, which included several NLD-allied monks, while travelling in Sagaing Division in the northwestern region of the country. The Government reportedly used criminals dressed in monks' robes in the ambush. On 15 May, authorities detained more than 30 worshippers in Rangoon when they approached separate pagodas to pray for Aung San Suu Kyi and other political prisoners. At the end of the reporting period, the worshippers were still detained. The next day USDA members, claiming to represent \"the people,\" detained another 15 worshippers after they prayed at a pagoda in Mingladon Township, but the authorities let them go the same day. On 25 May 2007, the Government extended Aung San Suu Kyi's house arrest for an additional year.\n\nIn February 2007 the Burmese Army arrested a monk who was allegedly trading Buddha images to Buddhists in Bangladesh illegally. The army forced the monk to disrobe in contravention to Buddhist precepts that require a monk to have his robes removed at a ceremony in a monastery. Laypersons, regardless of status, may not demote a monk to become a layperson.\n\nOn 2 July 2006, authorities from Thandwe, Rakhine State arrested Abbot Wila Tha and his assistant Than Kakesa from the Buddhist monastery of U Shwe Maw village, Taungup Township, closed the monastery, and forced 59 monks and novices to leave. Local sources claimed that the reason for the arrest was that the abbot refused to accept donations from or conduct religious ceremonies for the authorities. The authorities also claimed the abbot was endangering local stability by talking to the monks and novices about democracy, that he was a supporter of the NLD (National League for Democracy), and that he had supported the visit of Aung San Suu Kyi (pro-democracy activist and leader of the NLD) when she visited the area several years earlier. The exile-based Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) estimated there were 86 Buddhist monks in prison for various charges. It was not possible to verify the AAPP estimate. The number of non-Buddhists in prison for their religious beliefs was unknown. Authorities usually defrocked monks when they arrested them and treated them like ordinary prisoners, including using torture. The prison authorities disrespectfully addressed the monks by their given names, not their religious titles.\n\nLocal civilian and military authorities continued to take actions against Christian groups: arresting clergy, closing home churches, and prohibiting religious services.\n\nIn February 2006, police at Hpa-an, Karen State, arrested Yeh Zaw, a member of the Phawkkan Evangelical Church. Yeh Zaw had earlier written a letter to the regime leader urging him to end the persecution of his church that Rangoon authorities closed earlier in 2006, banning members from worshipping there. Police charged him with travelling without an identity card.\n\nIn 2005 local authorities in the Chin State capital of Hakha notified Baptist leaders that they would be forced to relocate an active, historic cemetery from church property to a remote location outside of town. Religious leaders reported that authorities continued to forcefully relocate cemeteries in many parts of the country.\n\nIn the past, pagodas or government buildings often have been built on confiscated Muslim land.\n\nIn Kachin State, authorities have constructed Buddhist shrines in Christian communities where few or no Buddhists reside and have tried to coerce Christians into forced labour to carry bricks and other supplies for the shrine's construction. In September 2006 government officials inaugurated a pagoda near the Kachin Independence Organization's headquarters at Laiza, Kachin State. Kachin sources reported there were no Buddhists living in the community. In northern Rakhine State, authorities frequently forced Rohingyas to help construct Buddhist shrines, even though Buddhists there account for approximately 2 percent of the population.\n\nIn January 2006 Muslim Rohingyas from at least ten surrounding villages claimed the military forced them to carry building supplies for three model villages at Padauk Myin, Mala Myin and Thaza Myin in Rathedaung Township. Certain townships in the Rakhine State, such as Thandwe, Gwa, and Taungup, were declared \"Muslim-free zones\" by government decree in 1983.\n\nAuthorities have attempted to prevent Chin Christians from practising their religion. In 2005 the military commander in Matupi Township, Chin State, ordered the destruction of a 30-foot cross erected on a hillside with government permission in 1999. A more senior military official subsequently told local church authorities that they could get permission to reconstruct the cross; however, the local pastors have thus far refused to ask for such authorisation. In the past, these crosses often have been replaced with pagodas, sometimes built with forced labour.\n\nSPDC authorities continued to \"dilute\" ethnic minority populations by encouraging, or even forcing, Buddhist Burmans to relocate to ethnic areas. In predominantly Muslim northern Rakhine State, authorities established \"model villages\" to relocate released ethnic Burman criminals from other parts of the country.\n\nThere continued to be credible reports from diverse regions of the country that government officials compelled persons, Buddhists and non-Buddhists alike, especially in rural areas, to contribute money, food, or materials to state-sponsored projects to build, renovate, or maintain Buddhist religious shrines or monuments. The Government denied that it used coercion and called these contributions \"voluntary donations\" consistent with Buddhist ideas of making merit. In April 2006 authorities in Lashio reportedly tried to coerce merchants to contribute large sums to construct a Buddhist shrine. Christian merchants refused to participate and the funds raised were well below the authorities' target.\n\nMuslim and Christian community leaders reported that during the period covered by this report, authorities had moved away from a campaign of forced conversion to Buddhism and instead focused on enticing non-Buddhists to convert to Buddhism by offering charity or bribery. Conversion of non-Buddhists, coerced or otherwise, is part of a longstanding government campaign to \"Burmanize\" ethnic minority regions. This campaign has coincided with increased military presence and pressure. In 2005 there was a single, unverified report of forced conversion at gunpoint in Chin State; however, Christian groups reported that such violent cases were less frequent than in earlier years. In September 2006 Chin sources reported that 15 students withdrew from a government-operated hostel for girls in Matupi, Chin State, after formerly voluntary Buddhist evening prayers became compulsory for all the hostel residents. Although the girls received free school fees, food, and accommodation, they complained they felt pressured to become Buddhist. Also in many state schools of Burma, students are to pray in Buddhist every morning. In Kanpetlet, Chin State, NaTaLa operated a school exclusively for Buddhist students and guaranteed them government jobs after graduation. Christian children had to agree to convert to Buddhism if they wanted to attend this school.\n\nThere were no reports of forced religious conversion of minor US citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to return to the United States.\n\nPreferential treatment for Buddhists and widespread prejudice against ethnic Indians, particularly ethnic Rohingya Muslims, were key sources of social tensions between the Buddhist majority and Christian and Muslim minorities.\n\nIn February 2006, violent clashes broke out between Muslims and Buddhists in Magway Division in response to rumours that Muslim men had raped a Burman woman. Ethnic Burmans attacked and torched Muslim and ethnic Indian homes, shops, and mosques. Rioting and looting spread to surrounding towns, including Chauk and Salin. Local security forces did not intervene at first, but as violence spread authorities imposed a strict curfew in several towns. Reliable sources stated that the authorities arrested 17 people in Sinbyukyun and another 55 persons in Chauk, mostly Muslims. Unofficial sources claimed that 3 people died and another 10 were injured in the riots. Three mosques in Yenangyaung, Chauk, and Saku were reportedly destroyed in the violence. At the end of the reporting period, the mosques remained sealed and authorities would not permit Muslims to rebuild them, nor did authorities conduct inquiries into the attacks. Christians reported that an entire Muslim village fled to the monastery of a trusted Buddhist abbot near Shwe Settaw to seek refuge during the riots.\n\nThese attacks follow earlier communal violence in Kyauk Pyu, Rakhine State, in 2005. During several days of violence, two Muslims were killed and one Buddhist monk was severely injured. Some Islamic groups blamed the Government for trying to increase tensions between Buddhists and Muslims as part of a \"divide and rule\" strategy.\n\nSince 1994, when Buddhist members split away from the KNU (Karen National Union) to organise the pro-government Democratic Karen Buddhist Army (DKBA), there have been armed conflicts between the DKBA and the predominantly Christian antigovernment KNU. Although the DKBA reportedly includes some Christians and there are some Buddhists in the KNU, the armed conflict between the two Karen groups has had strong religious overtones. There were also unverified reports that DKBA authorities continued to expel villagers who converted to Christianity.\n\nDuring the reporting period, a Burmese language document surfaced titled, \"Program to Eliminate Christianity.\" The document suggested 17 points for countering Christianity in the country; however, the source of the document was unknown and several grammatical errors raised questions about its authenticity. There was no definite evidence to link the document to the Government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8943586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8943586", "title": "Gajapati Kingdom", "text": "Gajapati Kingdom\n\nThe Gajapatis were a medieval Hindu dynasty from the Indian subcontinent, which originated in the region of Odradesh(historical region ruled by samrat Odra) (most of present-day Odisha and Northern coastal Andhra) from 1434 to 1541 CE. Under Kapilendra Deva, Gajapatis became an empire stretching from the lower Ganga in the north to the Kaveri in the south.\n\nThe Gajapati dynasty was established by Emperor Kapilendra Deva (1434–66 CE) in 1434. During the reign of Kapilendra Deva, the borders of the empire were expanded immensely; from large parts of Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal, and the eastern and central parts of Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand. The king took the title of \"Sri Sri ... (108 times) Gajapati Gaudesvara Nava Koti Karnata Kalvargesvara\". This title is still used by the kings of Puri during the Ratha Yatra. The significant rulers of this dynasty were Purushottama Deva (1466–1497) and Prataparudra Deva (1497–1540). The last ruler Kakharua Deva was killed by Govinda Vidyadhara in 1541, who founded the Bhoi dynasty.\n\nIn Odia, \"Gaja\" means elephant and \"Pati\" means \"master\" or \"husband\". As such, Gajapati etymologically means \"a king with an army of elephants\".\n\nThe region known as Kalinga (present-day Odisha) was controlled by the Odia rulers Eastern Gangas of the Vasistha gotra. The early Eastern Gangas ruled from Kalinga-nagara (Mukhalingam near Srikakulam, Andhra Pradesh). They shifted their capital to Puri in the 12th century. Religious leader Ramanujacharya had a great influence on the Raja Choda Ganga Deva, who renovated the temple at Puri. Narasimha Deva built the Sun Temple at Konark. The Gangas were succeeded by the Gajapati rulers. Two copper plates of the early Pallava dynasty have been found in the Kolleru Lake, traced to Gajapati Langula Narasimha Deva, an Oriya ruler(Odiya Raju). According to legend, the Gajapati fort was located at Kolleti Kota on one of the eastern islands of the lake, which protected the Odia forces. The enemy general encamped at Chiguru Kota located on the shores and tried to excavate a channel in the modern-day Upputeru, so that the water of the lake would empty into the sea and allow an attack on the Gajapathi fort.\n\nThe Suryavansi Gajapatis of Odisha, at the height of their power in the 15th century, ruled over an empire extending from the Ganges in the north near Hoogly to the Cauvery in the south under Gajapati Kapilendra Deva. But by the early 16th century, the Gajapatis lost great portions of their southern dominion to Vijayanagar and Golconda. This period was marked by the influence of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu and by the expansion of Jaganatha temple across the length and breadth of the empire. One of the causes of the reduction in militarism of the population has been attested to the Bhakti movement initiated by Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, who arrived in the empire at the time of Emperor Prataparudra and stayed for 18 long years at Puri. Emperor Prataparudra was highly influenced by the works of Chaitanya and gave up the military tradition of the Odia emperors. He retired himself into the life of an ascetic leaving the future of the empire uncertain. The traitor Govinda Vidyadhara took the opportunity to murder the sons of the emperor and usurped the throne himself and carved out the destruction of the once mighty empire.\n\nTheir rule in eastern India is associated with a high point in the growth of regional culture and architecture. Sarala Mahabharata by Sarala Dasa, a transcreation of the original Sanskrit one was written during this period. Similarly transcreation of the Ramayana and Bhagvata Purana were written. They constitute the best examples of ancient Odia literature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "555912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=555912", "title": "Ganden Tripa", "text": "Ganden Tripa\n\nThe Ganden Tripa or Gaden Tripa ( \"Holder of the Ganden Throne\") is the title of the spiritual leader of the Gelug school of Tibetan Buddhism, the school that controlled central Tibet from the mid-17th century until the 1950s. The 103rd Ganden Tripa, Jetsun Lobsang Tenzin died in office on 21 April 2017. Jangtse Choejey Kyabje Jetsun Lobsang Tenzin Palsangpo is the current Ganden Tripa. \n\nThe head of the Gelugpa order is the Ganden Tripa and not, as is often misunderstood, the Dalai Lama. It is also often misunderstood that the Ganden Tripa is the same person as the abbot of Ganden monastery. Ganden has two abbots, the abbot of Ganden Shartse and the abbot of Ganden Jangtse, and neither of them can be the Ganden Tripa unless they have also served as abbot of Gyumay or Gyuto tantric colleges. See 'Mode of Appointment' below.\n\nThe Ganden Tripa is an appointed office, not a reincarnation lineage. It is awarded on the basis of merit which is the basis of his hierarchical progression. Since the position is held for only a 7-year term, there have been many more Ganden Tripas than Dalai Lamas to date (102 as against 14).\n\nJe Tsongkhapa (1357–1419), who founded the Gelug is the first Ganden Tripa. After Tsongkhapa's passing, his teachings were held and kept by Gyaltsab Je and Khedrub Je who were the next abbots of Ganden monastery. The lineage has been held by the Ganden Tripas.\n\nIn January 2003, the Central Tibetan Administration announced the nomination of the 101st Ganden Tripa. An excerpt from that press release gives his background:\n\nThe 100th Ganden Tripa, Lobsang Nyima Rinpoche, retired and lived at Drepung Loselling Monastery with his labrang (office staff) until his death in 2008.\n\nThe Ganden Tripa is nominated or appointed on the basis of a hierarchical progression based on merit, and the appointee does not necessarily have to have any direct connection with Ganden Monastery, although if he started as a Ganden monk he could have obtained his higher Geshe degree there and risen to be its abbot.\n\nThere is a traditional Tibetan saying: “If a beggar’s child has the ability, there is no stopping him becoming the Throne Holder of Ganden.” It means the post is obtained on merit alone, rather than by recognition as the incarnation of a teacher, or other means.\n\nThis, and the hierarchy through which any Gelugpa monk can rise up through the ranks on merit to become the Ganden Tripa is briefly described in the November 2011 edition of Me-Long, a journal published by the Norbulingka Institute, which is dedicated to the preservation of the Tibetan culture, and in full detail on \"Study Buddhism\". The progression can be summarised as follows: first of all, a monk of any Gelugpa monastery, who, after usually 15 to 20 years of study, achieves a \"Tsorampa\" or \"Lharampa\" (higher) Geshe degree, is obliged to enter either the Gyuto Tantric College or the Gyume Tantric College, depending on his place of origin in Tibet, to continue his studies. If, after one or two years further study he then qualifies as \"Ngagrampa\" Geshe, he can rise on merit to become a \"Geko\" or disciplinarian, then to become vice-abbot (tenure 3 years); then he can be chosen and appointed by the Dalai Lama as abbot of his respective college, with a tenure of a further 3 years.\n\nOn retirement as Abbot of Gyume or Gyuto, he becomes eligible to become, eventually, for former Gyume abbots the \"Jangtsey Chojey\" (\"Dharma Master of the Northern Peak of Ganden Hill\"), or for former Gyuto abbots the \"Sharpa Chojey\" (\"Dharma Master of the Eastern Peak of Ganden Hill\"). These are more elevated positions, above abbots and retired abbots, which are automatically accorded only to the senior-most surviving retired abbot, one from each respective college, with a tenure of 7 years.\n\nThe Ganden Tripa is an automatic appointment occurring once every 7 years, from one or the other of these two \"Chojeys\" or Dharma Masters, on an alternating basis. The incumbent Ganden Tripa stands down, and one of the two \"Chojeys\" is elevated. If the retiring Ganden Tripa is a former abbot of Gyume Tantric College, and thus a former \"Jangtsey Chojey\", his replacement will be a former abbot of Gyuto Tantric College and thus the current \"Sharpa Chojey\" (and vice versa).\n\nThis appointment is automatic but is apparently confirmed by the Dalai Lama who, being the pre-eminent spiritual leader, publicly announces the appointment or nomination at the time of changeover. The 102nd Ganden Tripa is Rizong Sre Rinpoche and has previously served as the abbot of both Gyume Tantric College and Drepung Loseling Monastery, currently he serves as the patron of the Lam Rim Centres http://www.lamrim.org.uk/group/en/1/patrons.html and is a touring Lama of The FPMT http://fpmt.org/teachers/touring/\n\n"}
{"id": "16297627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16297627", "title": "Harold Bussell", "text": "Harold Bussell\n\nHarold L. Busséll is a pastor and author. He has a B.A. from Bethany College in Biblical Studies, M.A. in Psychology from Santa Clara University and a Doctorate of Divinity from Andover Newton Theological Seminary. Between 1968 and 1970 he served with Teen Challenge Paris, a Christian outrach program that works with drug addicts in Paris, France. His book \"Unholy Devotion - Why Cults Lure Christians\", (later renamed, \"By Hook or by Crook : How Cults Lure Christians\") talks about his experiences while in Europe. Bussell has written, \"my wife and I were involved with an Evangelical youth mission based in Switzerland. We were with the group only six weeks, but it was almost seven years before I had overcome the psychological damage caused by their cult-like control and spiritualization...Questioning a leader was considered an act of rebellion against God and His chain of command.\" Bussell went on to become a pastor in Saratoga, California. He also served as one of the Deans at Gordon College. Serving as Senior Pastor from 1984 to 1996 at the First Congregational Church in Hamilton, Massachusetts, a mainline church affiliated with the United Church of Christ. The New York Times recognizes Bussell as an author who has written books about mind control and religious groups. Christianity Today noted Bussell as a pastor who has \"experienced spiritual warfare.\" Paul R. Martin has noted Bussell's opinion on recovery from what they refer to as cults, that \"a clear understanding of the gospel is the single most important issue in a cultist's recovery and future immunity from further cultic involvement.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10899216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10899216", "title": "History of Wicca", "text": "History of Wicca\n\nThe history of Wicca documents the rise of the Neopagan religion of Wicca and related witchcraft-based Neopagan religions. Wicca originated in the early twentieth century, when it developed amongst secretive covens in England who were basing their religious beliefs and practices upon what they read of the historical Witch-Cult in the works of such writers as Margaret Murray. It was subsequently popularised in the 1950s by a number of figures, in particular Gerald Gardner, who claimed to have been initiated into the Craft – as Wicca is often known – by the New Forest coven in 1939. Gardner's form of Wicca, the Gardnerian tradition, was spread by both him and his followers like the High Priestesses Doreen Valiente, Patricia Crowther and Eleanor Bone into other parts of the British Isles, and also into other, predominantly English-speaking, countries across the world. In the 1960s, new figures arose in Britain who popularised their own forms of the religion, including Robert Cochrane, Sybil Leek and Alex Sanders, and organisations began to be formed to propagate it, such as the Witchcraft Research Association. It was during this decade that the faith was transported to the United States, where it was further adapted into new traditions such as Feri, 1734 and Dianic Wicca in the ensuing decades, and where organisations such as the Covenant of the Goddess were formed.\n\nFrom the 1970s onward, books began to be published by such figures as Paul Huson, Scott Cunningham, and Stewart and Janet Farrar which encouraged self-initiation into the Craft, leading to a boost in the number of adherents and the development of traditions. With the rising popularity of Wicca, it was used as a partial basis for witchcraft-based American films and television shows, further increasing its profile, particularly amongst younger people, in the 1990s.\n\nSince the early 1990s, historians have published studies and research into the history of Wicca, including the American Aidan Kelly and the Britons Ronald Hutton and Philip Heselton.\n\nIn the 16th and 17th centuries, something known as the witch hunt took place across Europe and the American colonies, during which somewhere between 40,000 and 100,000 people were killed. These people had been accused of being witches, who, according to their persecutors, worshipped the Devil, and committed acts of diabolism that included the cannibalism of children and desecration of the Eucharist. Most scholars since have agreed that these were the victims of isolated incidents of hysteria in remote, peasant communities, and that there was no religion being practised by these witches.\n\nHowever this was not the only view; one, which originated with Karl Ernst Jarcke in 1828, and which was expanded upon (most notably) by Jules Michelet in the 1860s and Margaret Murray in the early 20th century, known as the Witch-cult hypothesis, claimed that the witches had been members of a pan-European pagan religion which had pre-dated Christianity and had been persecuted by the Christian Church as a rival religion.\n\nMany Wiccans, particularly those of the early decades, believed that their religion was a continuation of this pagan Witch-Cult. It was only in the 1980s and 1990s that some Wiccans began to see the idea of the Witch-Cult as a creation myth rather than as historical fact. For instance, the Wiccan Jenny Gibbons stated that:\n\nIn 1954, Gerald Gardner, a retired English civil servant who had spent most of his life in the far east, published \"Witchcraft Today\" in which he made the claim to have encountered members of the Witch-Cult. At the same time he propagated his religion to new adherents, largely through the Bricket Wood coven (which is described further below). Gardner claimed that he had been initiated into a practising coven of the cult in September 1939, a group that has become known as the New Forest coven.\n\nGardner claimed that this group had met in the New Forest in southern England, and that he had met some of their members initially through the occultic Rosicrucian Order Crotona Fellowship. He mentioned two of their members, a local worthy called \"Old Dorothy\", in whose house he claimed to have been initiated, and \"Dafo\", who became a friend of his and would remain so for many years.\n\nThe idea of primitive matriarchal religions, which derived from the work of the Swiss lawyer Johann Jakob Bachofen, was popular in Gardner's day, both among academics (e.g., Erich Neumann, Margaret Murray) and amateurs (e.g. Robert Graves). Later scholars (e.g. Carl Jung and Marija Gimbutas) continued research in this area, and later still Joseph Campbell, Ashley Montagu and others became admirers of Gimbutas' theories of matriarchies in ancient Europe. Matriarchal interpretations of the archaeological record and the criticism of such work continue to be matters of academic debate. Some academics carry on research in this area (such as the 2003 World Congress on Matriarchal Studies). Critics argue that such matriarchal societies never actually existed and are an invention of researchers such as Margaret Murray. This is disputed by documentaries such as \"Blossoms of Fire\" (about contemporary Zapotec society).\n\nThe idea of a supreme Mother Goddess was common in Victorian and Edwardian literature: the concept of a Horned God – especially related to the gods Pan or Faunus – was less common, but still significant. Both of these ideas were widely accepted in academic literature and the popular press at the time.\n\nDoreen Valiente undertook research into the identity of \"Old Dorothy\", whose surname was Clutterbuck. She refuted the claims of those who had suggested that Dorothy had been the product of Gardner's imagination. More recently, it has been doubted (notably by Ronald Hutton) whether the historical Dorothy Clutterbuck, who was outwardly an observant Christian and a pillar of the local community, really was involved in occultic activities. In this view, Gardner used her name as a joke and/or as a subterfuge to conceal the identity of Dafo or some other individual. Such doubts have been vigorously contested by other researchers (notably Philip Heselton).\n\nValiente assumed that Clutterbuck was the same individual as Dafo. More recently, it has become clear that they were different people. Dafo seems to have been a teacher of music and elocution named Edith Woodford-Grimes, and there have been persistent suggestions that she and Gardner were lovers.\n\nThe work of Philip Heselton has gone a considerable way towards illuminating the composition and activities of the New Forest Coven, and several candidates for its membership aside from Dorothy and Dafo emerge from his work.\n\nThe ritual format of Wicca shows the influence of late Victorian era occultism (even co-founder Doreen Valiente admitted seeing influence from Aleister Crowley), and there is very little in the ritual that cannot be shown to have come from earlier extant sources. The religion's spiritual content, however, is inspired by older Pagan faiths (for example, in the veneration of historical pagan deities), with Buddhist and Hindu influences (e.g. in the Wiccan doctrine of reincarnation).\n\nIt has been posited by authors such as Aidan Kelly and Francis X. King that Gardner himself created the religion that he claimed to have discovered, rewriting the rituals of an older witchcraft tradition according to his own whim, and incorporating elements from the thesis of Dr. Margaret Murray, sources such as \"Aradia, or the Gospel of the Witches\" by Charles Godfrey Leland and the practices of ceremonial magic.\n\nThe original material in the rituals brought to light by Gardner is not cohesive, and mostly takes the form of substitutions or expansions within unoriginal material. Roger Dearnaley, in \"An Annotated Chronology and Bibliography of the Early Gardnerian Craft\", describes it as a \"patchwork\". One element that is apparently distinctive is the use of ritual scourging and binding as a method of attaining an ecstatic trance for magical working. Hutton argues strongly that this practice in Wicca does not reflect sado-masochistic sexuality (he refers in this connection to Gardner's own collection of very mild, quasi-pornographic material, which showed no traces of such interests), but is simply a practical method of work alternative to drugs or other more strenuous methods.\n\nHeselton, writing in \"Wiccan Roots\" and later in \"Gerald Gardner and the Cauldron of Inspiration\", argues that Gardner was not the author of the Wiccan rituals but received them in good faith from an unknown source. (Doreen Valiente makes this claim regarding the \"basic skeleton of the rituals,\" as Margot Adler puts it in \"Drawing Down the Moon\".) He notes that all the Crowley material that is found in the Wiccan rituals can be found in a single book, \"The Equinox vol 3 no. 1\" or \"Blue Equinox\" (1919). Gardner is not known to have owned or had access to a copy of this book, although he met with Crowley towards the end of the latter's life. Gardner admitted that \"the rituals he received from Old Dorothy's coven were very fragmentary, and in order to make them workable, he had to supplement them with other material.\"\n\nSome, such as Isaac Bonewits, have argued that Valiente and Heselton's evidence points to an early 20th-century revival predating Gardner (by the New Forest Coven, perhaps), rather than an intact old Pagan religion. The argument points to historical claims of Gardner's that agree with scholarship of a certain time period and contradict later scholarship. Bonewits writes, \"Somewhere between 1920 and 1925 in England some folklorists appear to have gotten together with some Golden Dawn Rosicrucians and a few supposed Fam-Trads to produce the first modern covens in England; grabbing eclectically from any source they could find in order to try and reconstruct the shards of their Pagan past.\"\n\nIt has been proposed, originally in the Druidic journal \"Aisling\" that Gardner's New Forest coven was the pagan section of the Order of Woodcraft Chivalry; this order performed rituals in the New Forest in the early 1920s and its pagan section honoured a moon goddess and a horned god, and believed in ritual nakedness. One of Ronald Hutton's informants reports that Gardner was familiar with this order at least by the 1950s. A major difficulty with identifying this group with the New Forest coven is that it does not appear to have met in the New Forest between 1934 and 1945. Gardner records a working by the coven in the New Forest in 1940 against the projected Nazi invasion.\n\nA theory advanced by Bill Liddell is that the New Forest coven derived from a set of covens created by the nineteenth century cunning man George Pickingill, who lived in the Essex village of Canewdon. This claim is not widely accepted, although it does focus attention on the well documented and widespread \"cunning folk\" and their contribution to the history of British witchcraft.\n\nGardner, claiming to be fearful that the Witch-Cult religion would die out, began to propagate it through forming the Bricket Wood coven in Hertfordshire in circa 1946. He acted as the High Priest for the coven, and Dafo, who had also been a member of the New Forest coven, acted as High Priestess. However, she became concerned that Gardner's attempts to gain publicity would lead to a public backlash against her, and so she left his coven in 1952, albeit remaining his friend.\n\nIn 1953 Gardner initiated a young woman, Doreen Valiente, into the craft, and she soon went on to become the High Priestess of his Bricket Wood coven. Around the same time, Gardner invented the Book of Shadows, a workbook of rituals, although he claimed it was of ancient origins. Valiente helped Gardner rewrite the Book, cutting out what she saw as \"Crowleyanity\", and writing sections such as the Charge of the Goddess in poetic verse. Valiente and Gardner later fell out, however, when she got fed up with his constant attempts to gain publicity and when he tried to impose the Wiccan Laws upon the coven, something which he claimed were used by the Witch-Cult, but which Valiente believed he had simply made up. She, and several other members of the coven, left, and founded their own. However, the Bricket Wood coven continued, with members that included Jack Bracelin, Dayonis, Frederic Lamond and Lois Bourne.\n\nGardner also propagated his witchcraft tradition, which had begun to be referred to as \"Gardnerian\", outside of his Bricket Wood coven; he initiated Patricia Crowther, Eleanor Rae Bone and Monique Wilson, all of whom went on to propagate Gardnerian Witchcraft through their own covens. Various other initiates began to spread the craft around Britain, for instance Charles Clark took the religion to England's northern neighbour, Scotland.\n\nGardner referred to members of his craft as \"the Wica\", although he called the religion itself \"Witchcraft\", and never used the term \"Wicca\" in the sense as it is now known.\n\nMeanwhile, Gardner tried to get more publicity for his religion; he gave interviews to several newspapers, some of which were positive, although others turned very negative, one even declaring \"Witches Devil-Worship in London!\". He also published a second non-fiction book on the subject, \"The Meaning of Witchcraft\", in 1959, as well as running the Museum of Magic and Witchcraft on the Isle of Man up until his death in 1964.\n\nGardner was not the only person claiming to be a member of a surviving remnant of the witch-cult; several others also emerged in the 1950s making this claim. They included Sybil Leek, Charles Cardell, Raymond Howard, Rolla Nordic and Robert Cochrane. They claimed to have been initiated into the cult by their ancestors, and described themselves as following \"Hereditary\" or \"Traditional\" forms of Witchcraft, whereas Gardner, some said, was propagating a modern, and invalid form. Their beliefs and practices however, were similar to those of Gardner, and some of their modern followers describe their faith as being a form of Wicca, whereas others insist it is different and call it \"Traditional Witchcraft\".\n\nThe terms \"Wicca\" and \"Wiccen\" were first used by Charles Cardell, not to refer purely to Gardnerians, but to refer to all followers of the Witch-Cult religion. In his notebooks he used the term \"Wicca\" to refer to the religion, and he called it the \"Craft of the Wiccens\" in a 1958 article in \"Light\" magazine.\n\nInitially there was an attempt to reconcile and unite all of these traditions claiming to be Witch-Cult remnants, for instance the Witchcraft Research Association, which was founded in 1964 by Sybil Leek. After Leek emigrated to the United States, Doreen Valiente took over presidency, and began publication of a magazine, \"Pentagram\". However both the magazine and the organisation collapsed amongst infighting by the various traditions, with Cochrane consistently insulting, and even calling for a \"Night of the Long Knives\", against Gardnerians.\n\nWithin a few years of Gardner's propagation of the craft, Wicca had spread from England into neighbouring Scotland and Ireland. However, in the 1960s, it also began to spread much further abroad, most notably in the English-speaking nations of Australia and the United States.\n\nIn Australia, Wicca \"found a receptive social environment because of the long-standing presence and familiarity of Aboriginal culture with its 'pagan' (i.e. 'non-Christian') beliefs and practices\".\n\nGardnerian Wicca came to the United States through an Englishman who had recently emigrated to the USA, named Raymond Buckland, and his wife, Rosemary. Raymond, working for British Airways, regularly returned to England, and he began to correspond with Gardner. In 1963, both Bucklands were initiated into the Gardnerian craft by Monique Wilson in a ceremony in Britain. The couple returned to America where they founded the Long Island coven in New York state, basing their practice upon the Gardnerian Book of Shadows. The coven was later taken over by a couple known only as Theos and Phoenix, who enlarged the Book of Shadows, adding further degrees of initiation which were required before members could found their own covens. Interest outstripped the ability of the mostly British-based covens to train and propagate members; the beliefs of the religion spread faster by the printed word or word of mouth than the initiatory system was prepared to handle.\n\nAlso in the 1960s, non-Gardnerian forms of Witchcraft (which are sometimes viewed as Wicca, or sometimes as \"Traditional Witchcraft\") made their way to the USA. The American Joseph Bearwalker Wilson corresponded with the English Robert Cochrane prior to Cochrane's ritual suicide in 1966, and from this he founded the 1734 Tradition. Sybil Leek too, an English witch from the New Forest, emigrated to California, where she continued to practice her craft, and teach others. In 1968 Gavin and Yvonne Frost established the Church and School of Wicca; which in 1972 became the first Federally recognised Wiccan church.\n\nIt would be in the 2000s that Wicca would begin to gain a foothold in other nations; for instance, Ipsita Roy Chakraverti began to publicise it in India, and it also has a number of adherents in South Africa.\n\nIn the 1960s, an Englishman called Alex Sanders emerged, appearing in various newspapers. He claimed to be a hereditary witch, having been initiated into the craft by his grandmother. Later researchers, such as Ronald Hutton, have shown that he actually had been initiated into a Gardnerian coven, although Hutton notes that Sanders' grandmother was in fact \"skilled in cunning craft\". Sanders had previously practised as a spiritualist healer.\n\nHis reputation in the tabloids increased when he married the much younger Maxine Sanders in a handfasting ceremony, and subsequently the duo began to refer to themselves as the \"King and Queen of the Witches\", at one point claiming to have the allegiance of 1,623 witches, and 127 northern covens. His tradition, which was later coined as \"Alexandrian\" by Stewart Farrar, an initiate of Sanders, incorporated aspects from ceremonial magic and the Qabalah, as well as Judeo-Christian iconography. Sanders justified this by claiming that his version of Wicca and Christianity were both forces for good, battling against the forces of darkness which were practised by Satanists and black magicians.\n\nSeveral Gardnerians, including Patricia Crowther and Ray Bone, tried to denounce Sanders as a charlatan, but he simply responded by accusing them of being the charlatans, and as being practitioners of black magic who abused their initiates.\n\nIn 1973, Alex and Maxine separated, but both continued to practice the craft. One of the key reasons for their separation was that neither would compromise on Alex's bisexuality. After the divorce, Alex focused on formulating Wicca so that it could be followed by homosexual men, who had been partially prevented from involvement previously because of the religions' focus on gender polarity. He also initiated a number of people from continental Europe, who then spread the faith there. In 1979, Sanders issued an apology for his \"past hurts\" and \"many public stupidities\" and tried to encorouge co-operation between Gardnerians and Alexandrians. He died in 1988.\n\nIn the United States, several forms of Wicca formed in the 1970s, based upon the Gardnerian and Alexandrian traditions, but with certain differences. These traditions were actually formed by those who had previously been initiated into Gardnerian or Alexandrian crafts, and so can still be traced to Gardner, and thereby are often considered to be forms of British Traditional Wicca.\n\nThe first of these was Algard Wicca, founded in 1972 by Mary Nesnick, who had been initiated into both of the aforementioned traditions. Algard attempted to fuse the two together, thereby trying to prevent the arguments that were going on between the two.\n\nThe following year, in 1973, Raymond Buckland, who had brought the Gardnerian craft to the USA originally, ceased to practice it, and formed a new tradition, known as Seax-Wica. Seax used the structure of traditional Gardnerian covens, but used the iconography of Anglo-Saxon paganism, so the God and the Goddess were represented not as the traditional Horned God and Mother Goddess, but as Woden and Freya. Seax was virtually unique amongst Wicca at the time as it did not work on an initiatory basis of covens; Buckland deliberately published all its rites and rituals in a book, \"The Tree\", so that anyone could practice them.\n\nIn 1971, a Hungarian-American named Zsuzsanna Budapest, who had no connection to any Gardnerian or Alexandrian covens, mixed Wiccan practices with feminist politics, forming Dianic Witchcraft (although now it is better known as \"Dianic Wicca\"). She began this with a coven in Los Angeles, that she named the Susan B. Anthony Coven Number One.\n\nDianic Wicca focused almost exclusively upon the Goddess, and largely, and in some covens completely, ignoring the Horned God. Most covens were women-only, and some were designed specifically for lesbians. Like Seax-Wica, which developed around the same time, the rituals of Dianic Wicca were published by its creator so that any woman could practice it, without having the need of a specific initiation into a lineage. Indeed, Budapest believed that it was every woman's right to be able to practice the religion, and she referred to it as being \"women's spirituality\".\n\nDianic Wicca was criticised by many Gardnerians at the time for having an almost monotheistic view of theology, in contrast with Wicca's traditional duotheism. One Gardnerian even declared \"spare us Jahweh in drag!\" in response to the focus on the one Goddess.\n\nOne Gardnerian, who went under the craft name of Starhawk, started practising Dianic Wicca, and tried to reconcile the two, writing the 1979 book \"The Spiral Dance\" on the subject. The tradition she founded became known as Reclaiming, and mixed Wicca with other forms of Neopaganism such as Feri, along with strong principles of environmental protection.\n\nIn traditional Gardnerian and Alexandrian craft, initiates took an oath of secrecy never to reveal the rituals of it to outsiders. Despite this, both Gardner and Sanders sought publicity, and allowed reporters to witness their practices. Initiates such as Valiente and Buckland had been annoyed at this, the first commenting that \"by speaking to the press, Gardner was compromising the security of the group and the sincerity of his own teachings\". However, the key rituals of the Gardnerians (which were the basis for most of the Alexandrian ones) were made public in the 1960s when Charles Cardell, in an act of spite against the recently deceased Gardner, published the Gardnerian Book of Shadows.\n\nIn 1970, Paul Huson published \"Mastering Witchcraft\" a book purportedly based upon non-Wiccan traditional British witchcraft, and the first do-it-yourself manual for the would-be witch, which became one of the basic instruction books for a large number of covens.\n\nIn 1971 Lady Sheba (Jessie Wicker Bell, 1920–2002), the Kentucky-born self-styled \"Queen of the American Witches\", published what she claimed was her family's centuries-old grimoire, but which in fact contained material substantially plagiarised from the Gardnerian \"Book of Shadows\", and also included poetry by Doreen Valiente that was, and is, still under copyright.\n\nDoreen Valiente also published information on the subject of pagan Witchcraft, such as the 1973 book \"An ABC of Witchcraft\", which contained a self-initiation ritual for solitary practitioners.\n\nFollowing this, other Wiccans decided that it would be better to simply reveal the Wiccan mysteries to the public in their true form. These included Stewart and Janet Farrar, two Alexandrian initiates. Stewart, prior to his marriage, had already published information on Wiccan rituals (with Sanders' blessing), in his 1971 book \"What Witches Do\". Together they published further works on the subjects, such \"Eight Sabbats for Witches\" (1981) and \"The Witches' Way\" (1984).\n\nFrom these published writings, many other practitioners began to follow the Witchcraft religion, working either as solitary Witches or in non-lineaged covens. Valiente herself considered all of these such people to be \"Witches\", and she reserved the term \"Wiccan\" to refer solely to Gardnerians. Despite this, most of the newer followers used the term \"Wiccan\" to describe themselves, and in the United States, it became the norm to refer to any Neopagan witchcraft as \"Wicca\", and so Gardnerians, Alexandrians and Algards, wishing to emphasise their lineage that stretched back to Gardner, began referring to themselves as followers of \"British Traditional Wicca\".\n\nIn the 1990s and 2000s, Wicca began to become ingrained in popular culture. Aspects of Wicca were incorporated into the New Age movement, and many Wiccans took on New Age beliefs and practices. Wicca was also taken up by popular entertainment; in 1996, the American film \"The Craft\" was released about four witches who are corrupted by their power. The same year the television series \"Sabrina the Teenage Witch\" appeared, which was followed the following year by \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\", and in 1998 by the series \"Charmed\" and the film \"Practical Magic\". Whilst these were heavily criticised by many Wiccans (Margot Adler called \"The Craft\" \"the worst movie ever made!\"), they did encourage many teenagers and young adults to investigate more about the religion. Most covens and Neopagan groups refused to allow under 18s into their ranks, and so many teenagers turned to books to find out more. In turn, several books were published to cater for them, including Silver RavenWolf's \"Teen Witch: Wicca for a New Generation\" and Scott Cunningham's \"Wicca: A Guide for the Solitary Practitioner\". This helped to bring about the \"Teen Wicca\" movement, and it has been suggested that the reason why so many young adults are attracted to the faith can \"be attributed to the fact that it tackles issues that teenagers are interested in – in a way that other religions do not.\"\n\nHowever the rise of this teenage-focused, New Age, pop-culture Wicca has been highly criticised by traditionalists, many of whom refuse to accept it as Wicca, instead using terms like \"wicca-lite\". The historians Brooks Alexander and Jeffrey Russell commented that \"pop-culture witchcraft is sufficiently vague in structure and content to qualify more as a 'lifestyle' than a 'religion'.\"\n\nThe rise of the internet also had an effect on Wicca. Previously, solitary Wiccans around the world had little way of communicating amongst one another, however, the internet allowed them to do so. Websites such as Witchvox.com were set up. Historian Brooks Alexander commented that this was a form of \"minority empowerment\".\n\nFor a long time, Wicca was seen as being simply a minor sect, or cult. However, with the rise of solitary practitioners describing themselves as Wiccans, the faith went from becoming simply a mystery cult to becoming a public religion.\n\nGroups were formed to represent the Wiccan community, such as the Covenant of the Goddess, which was founded in 1975. Wiccans began to appear on various British television documentaries, including \"The Heaven & Earth Show\" and \"Desperately Seeking Something\".\n\nIn the USA, the court case of Dettmer v. Landon in 1986 established that Wicca was a religion, and therefore should be treated as such under the eyes of the law.\n\nThe first Wiccan wedding to be legally recognised in the UK (by the Registrars of Scotland) was performed in 2004.\n\nNotes\nFootnotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "28059976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28059976", "title": "Irreligion in the Maldives", "text": "Irreligion in the Maldives\n\nIrreligion in the Maldives is a social taboo, and irreligious people are systematically socially and legally discriminated against.\n\nThe Constitution of the Maldives designates Islam as the official state religion, and the government and many citizens at all levels interpret this provision to impose a requirement that all citizens must be Muslims. The Constitution states the president must be a Sunni Muslim. There is no freedom of religion or belief. This situation leads to institutionally sanctioned religious oppression against non-Muslims and ex-Muslims who currently reside in the country.\n\nOn 27 April 2014, the Maldives ratified a new regulation that revived the death penalty (abolished in 1953, when the last execution took place) for a number of \"hudud\" offences, including apostasy for persons from the age of 7 and older. The new regulation was strongly criticised by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the EU's High Representative, pointing out that they violated the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which the Maldives have ratified, that ban the execution of anyone for offences committed before the age of 18.\n\nDuring a question-and-answer session at one of Indian Muslim orator Zakir Naik's lectures May 29, 2010 on the Maldives, a 37-year-old Maldivian citizen named Mohamed Nazim stood up and announced that he was struggling to believe in any religion and did not consider himself to be a Muslim, Nazim further asked what his verdict would be under Islam and in the Maldives. Zakir responded that he considers the punishment for apostasy not necessarily to mean death since Muhammed was reported in the Hadith scriptures to on some occasion to have shown clemency towards apostates, but added that if a Muslim apostate speaks and propagates against Islam under Islamic Shari’a rule then the apostate should be put to death.\n\nMohamed Nazim was reported to have been arrested and put in protective custody by the Maldivian Police. He later publicly reverted to Islam in custody after receiving two days of counseling by two Islamic scholars, but was held awaiting possible charges.\n\nOn July 14, 2010, Maldivian news site Minivan News reported that 25-year-old air traffic controller Ismail Mohamed Didi had sent two e-mails, dated June 25, to international human rights organisations declaring that he was an atheist ex-Muslim and that he desired help with his asylum application (directed to the United Kingdom) due to increased repression from family and colleague shunning and anonymous death threats via phone. The same day that the report was posted, Didi was found hanged in the aircraft control tower at Malé International Airport in an apparent suicide.\n"}
{"id": "47131232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47131232", "title": "Irreligion in the United Arab Emirates", "text": "Irreligion in the United Arab Emirates\n\nIrreligion in the United Arab Emirates is rare, with only up to 4% of people reporting irreligious beliefs according to a Gallup poll. It is illegal for Muslims, with apostates from Islam facing a maximum sentence of the death penalty under the country's anti-blasphemy law. As such, there have been questions regarding freedom of religion in the United Arab Emirates.\n\nAtheism in the region is mainly present among foreign expatriates and a very small number of local youth. According to Sultan Sooud Al-Qassemi, due to Islam being founded in the Arabian Peninsula over 1,400 years ago, the Persian Gulf region enjoys a long Islamic history and tradition, and it is strongly associated with national identity; thus, any distancing or criticism of religion \"equates to distancing oneself from national identity\". Al-Qassemi notes that the use of social media via the internet remains the strongest medium of expression for Gulf atheists, while providing anonymity; a pioneering Gulf blogger is the Emirati atheist Ahmed Ben Kerishan, who is known in the Arabic blogosphere for advocating atheist and secular views.\n\n"}
{"id": "5249838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5249838", "title": "Islam in Angola", "text": "Islam in Angola\n\nIslam in Angola is a minority religion. Most sources estimate the population at 90,000, although some give a higher figure. Most Muslims in Angola are Sunni. They are generally foreign migrants from West Africa and the Middle East, although a few are local converts. There exist several Islamic organizations that run mosques, schools and community centers. The Association of the Development of Islam in Angola is the primary proselytizing organization. Muslim Angolans are represented by the Supreme Council of Angolan Muslims of Luanda. As of late 2013, the Angolan government does not legally recognize any Muslim organizations; as a result, mosques in the country have faced restrictions and many have been shut down by the government.\n\nThe 2010 Angolan Constitution guarantees freedom of religion to all of its citizens. In late 2016, however, messages spread that the Angolan government had banned Islam and closed down all mosques in the country. stating that it clashed with the state's Christian values. The US State Department's 2013 report into global religious freedom counted 194 different religious groups that were denied legal recognition, the large majority of which were Christian organisations, and this included Islam. The US report does say a mosque was destroyed - including one in Luanda's Zango neighbourhood - though, while it says two mosques were shut down, 52 churches were closed in the same year.\n\nThe government requires religious groups to petition for legal status. Upon recognition, these groups are allowed to build schools and places of worship. In order to be recognized, a group must have more than 100,000 and be present in 12 out of 18 provinces. The population of Muslims, however, is estimated at only 90,000. While the government has given legal status to 83 religious groups (all of them Christian), it has not given legal status to any Muslim groups. The president of the Islamic Community of Angola has criticized Angola's threshold for recognition by stating, \"You need 100,000 to be recognised as a religion or officially you cannot pray\".\n\nThe US State Department reports that the government often permits non-registered groups to exist and function, but notes of instances of Angolan authorities shutting down mosques (see section below).\n\nIn November 2013, Angolan foreign minister Georges Chikoti said that there were eight Islamic denominations in Angola, but none met the legal requirements for registration, and \"so they can't practice their faith until concluding the process\". Chikoti states that some Muslim groups had not registered their mosques officially, but did not specify which legal requirements they had not met.\n\nHistorically, Angola did not have a significant Muslim population. During the 21st century, Angola's Muslim community has grown. Most Muslims in Angola are businessmen and migrants from West Africa and the Middle East, especially Lebanon. Very few Angolans have converted to Islam as a result of Muslim missionary activity in Angola. Most of these conversions occurred during the Angolan Civil War, when many Angolans fled to countries with a significant Muslim presence and came into contact with Islam there.\n\nAdebayo Oyebade estimates that Muslims make up 1 to 2.5 percent of Angola's population. The US State Department states that the estimated Muslim population is 80,000-90,000, but notes that some sources put the population size closer to 500,000., which appears to be highly unrealistic. Around 1% of the Muslim population of Angola adheres to Shia Islam.\n\nThe International Religious Freedom Report stated that the Angolan government selectively shut down mosques, schools and community centres. Angolan officials denied that a government had a policy to close mosques, there were reports of local authorities closing mosques or preventing their construction on several occasions.\n\nIn July 2010, unidentified arsonists set fire to a mosque in Huambo, causing extensive damage. A Muslim leader later said the mosque was burned \"a day after authorities had warned us that we should not have built the mosque where we had and that it had to be built somewhere else.\"\n\nOn September 4, 2010, authorities closed a mosque in Cazenga without prior notice or justification. The mosque reopened a month later.\n\nIn November 2011, Angolan authorities tore down a structure being used as a mosque in Cacuaco without notice and without a written order of violation. In December 2011, a Muslim group in the Malanje Province purchased some land, and applied to obtain permission to build a mosque. The Muslim group repeatedly asked the authorities to either grant or deny the application, but received no response. After waiting several months, when the Muslim group began construction, Angolan authorities arrived and destroyed the mosque foundation. The authorities did not provide either a denial of the application, or a citation for offense.\n\nIn January 2012, the Angolan government prevented Muslims from building a mosque in Dundo, Lunda Norte Province, even though the Muslim group had a license to do so. In May 2012, the police chained the doors of a building used by Muslims as a mosque and told them to cease praying there. Muslim leaders wrote letters in response, but received no response.\n\nAccording to the Islamic Community of Angola, a total of 60 mosques, mostly outside of Luanda, have been shut down in 2013. Voice of America reported seeing a video that showed the demolition of a mosque in Saurimo. Muslims are currently de facto are denied the permit to pray in or build mosques.\n\nAngolan Minister of Culture said \"The legalisation of Islam has not been approved...their mosques will be closed until further notice.\" The Angolan Embassy in the United States said it was not aware of this remark. A spokesperson for the Angolan police said that he was unaware of any government order to shut down mosques. However, Voice of America found a government document telling an official to demolish the \"Zango 1\" mosque in Viana Luanda province.\n\nIn November 2013, some media sources reported that Islam and other belief systems deemed to be contrary to the country's culture had been outlawed in Angola. The \"International Business Times\" said that Angola was seeking to shut down all mosques.\n\nHowever, the reports were later denied by the government The Ministry of Culture stated, \"There is no war in Angola against Islam or any other religion.\"\n\nAt the time, Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu, Secretary-General of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), said that his organisation would send a fact-finding team to Angola.\n\nIn 2004 Constantino Vitiaka, the head of information of Angola's national intelligence services, claimed in a radio interview that the extremist terror network al-Qaeda had tried to enter the country through Muslim Non-Governmental Organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1277197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1277197", "title": "Islam in Saudi Arabia", "text": "Islam in Saudi Arabia\n\nIslam is the state religion of Saudi Arabia. The connection between Islam and Saudi Arabia (or at least the western Hejaz region of the country) is uniquely strong. The kingdom, which sometimes is called the \"home of Islam\", is the location of the cities of Mecca and Medina, where Muhammad, the messenger of the Islamic faith, lived and died, and attracts millions of Muslim Hajj pilgrims annually, and thousands of clerics and students who come from across the Muslim world to study. The official title of the King of Saudi Arabia is \"Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques\"—the two being Al-Masjid al-Haram in Mecca and Al-Masjid al-Nabawi in Medina—which are considered the holiest in Islam.\n\nIn the 18th century, a pact between Islamic preacher Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab and a regional emir, Muhammad bin Saud, brought a fiercely puritanical strain of Sunni Islam first to the Najd region and then to the Arabian Peninsula. Referred to by supporters as \"Salafism\" and by others as \"Wahhabism\", this interpretation of Islam became the state religion and interpretation of Islam espoused by Muhammad bin Saud and his successors (the Al Saud family), who eventually created the modern kingdom of Saudi Arabia in 1932. The Saudi government has spent tens of billions of dollars of its petroleum export revenue throughout the Islamic world and elsewhere on building mosques, publishing books, giving scholarships and fellowships, hosting international Islamic organisations, and promoting its form of Islam, sometimes referred to as \"petro-Islam\".\n\nWhether Salafis/Wahhabis are a majority in Saudi Arabia is disputed, with one estimate putting their number at only 22.9% of the native population (concentrated in Najd). The Wahhabi mission has been dominant in Najd for two hundred years, but in most other parts of the country—Hejaz, the Eastern Province, Najran—it has dominated only since 1913-1925. Most of the 15 to 20 million Saudi citizens are Sunni Muslims, while the eastern regions are populated mostly by Twelver Shia, and there are Zaydi Shia in the southern regions. According to a number of sources, only a minority of Saudis consider themselves Wahhabis, although according to other sources, the Wahhabi affiliation is up to 40%, making it a very dominant minority, at the very least using a native population of 17 million based on \"2008-9 estimates\". In addition, the next largest affiliation is with Salafism, which encompasses all of the central principles of Wahhabism, with a number of minor additional accepted principles differentiating the two.\n\nProselytizing by non-Muslims in Saudi Arabia, including the distribution of non-Muslim religious materials (such as the Bible), is illegal.\n\nThe Islamic prophet, Muhammad, was born in Mecca in about 571. From the early 7th century, Muhammad united the various tribes of the peninsula and created a single Islamic religious polity. Following his death in 632, his followers rapidly expanded the territory under Muslim rule beyond Arabia, conquering huge swathes of territory. Although Arabia soon became a politically peripheral region as the focus shifted to the more developed conquered lands, Mecca and Medina remained the spiritually most important places in the Muslim world. The Qur'an requires every able-bodied Muslim who can afford it, as one of the five pillars of Islam, to make a pilgrimage, or Hajj, to Mecca during the Islamic month of Dhu al-Hijjah at least once in his or her lifetime.\n\nFrom the 9th century, a number of Shia sects developed particularly in the eastern part of Arabia. These included the Qarmatians, a millenarian Ismaili sect led by Abū-Tāhir Al-Jannābī who attacked and sacked Mecca in 930.\n\nIn 1744, in the desert region of Nejd, Muhammad bin Saud, founder of the Al Saud dynasty, joined forces with the religious leader Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab. Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab was the founder of the Wahhabi movement, a strict puritanical form of Sunni Islam. This alliance formed in the 18th century provided the ideological impetus to Saudi expansion and remains the basis of Saudi Arabian dynastic rule today. The first \"Saudi state\" established in 1744 in the area around Riyadh, rapidly expanded and briefly controlled most of the present-day territory of Saudi Arabia, but was destroyed by 1818 by the Ottoman viceroy of Egypt, Mohammed Ali Pasha. In 1824, a much smaller second \"Saudi state\", located mainly in Nejd, was established in 1824, but by 1891 its Al Saud rulers were driven into exile in Kuwait.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, a third attempt was made to conquer this territory by another Al-Saud, Abdulaziz Ibn Saud. He gained the support of the Ikhwan, a tribal army inspired by Wahhabism and led by Sultan ibn Bijad and Faisal Al-Dawish, which had grown quickly after its foundation in 1912. With the aid of the Ikhwan, Ibn Saud captured Hasa from the Ottoman Empire in 1913.\n\nIbn Saud defeated a rival ruling family and took the title Sultan of Nejd in 1921.\nBy this time the Ottomans had been defeated in World War I, and Ottoman suzerainty and control in Arabia was no more. With the help of the Ikhwan, the Hejaz was conquered in 1924–25. Following this victory however the Ikhwan clashed with Ibn Saud. He opposed their raiding the British protectorates of Transjordan, Iraq and Kuwait, to expand of the Wahhabist realm, and they opposed his policies of allowing some modernization and some non-Muslim foreigners in the country. The Ikhwan were defeated and their leaders executed in 1930 after a two-year struggle. In 1932 the two kingdoms of the Hejaz and Nejd were united as the \"Kingdom of Saudi Arabia\".\n\nOil was discovered in the Persian Gulf region of Saudi Arabia in 1938, and oil wells eventually revealing the largest source of crude oil in the world. For the king, oil revenues became a crucial source of wealth since he no longer had to rely on receipts from pilgrimages to Mecca. This discovery would alter Middle Eastern political relations forever.\n\nDuring the 1960s and '70s, religious authorities allowed some practices that had previously been forbidden (haram). At the urging of the government and after vigorous debate, religious authorities allowed the use of paper money in 1951, abolished slavery in 1962, permitted the education of females in 1964, and use of television in 1965.\n\nBy the 1970s, as a result of oil wealth and government modernization policies, economic and social development progressed at an extremely rapid rate, transforming the infrastructure and educational system of the country; in foreign policy, close ties with the US were developed.\nBy 1976 Saudi Arabia had become the largest oil producer in the world. The power of the ulema was in decline.\n\nHowever, in the 1980s and 1990s, this trend was reversed. In 1979, the modernizing monarch of Iran, despite his oil revenues and apparently formidable security apparatus, was overthrown by an Islamic revolution. The new revolutionary Islamic Republic was across the Persian Gulf from Saudi oil fields and across from where most of Saudi Arabia's minority Shiites—co-religionists of Iran who also often worked in the oil industry—lived. There were several anti-government uprisings in the region in 1979 and 1980.\n\nAlso alarming to the government was the seizure of the Grand Mosque in Mecca by Islamist extremists. The militants involved were in part angered by what they considered to be the corruption and un-Islamic nature of the Saudi government, proclaimed the return of the Mahdi.\nThe takeover and siege of the mosque lasted for nearly two weeks, during which the mosque was severely damaged and several hundred militants, soldiers, and hostages were killed.\n\nIn response the royal family enforced much stricter observances of traditional religious and social norms in the country and gave the Ulema a greater role in government. First photographs of women in newspapers were banned, then women on television. Cinemas and music shops were shut down. School curriculum was changed to provide many more hours of religious studies, eliminating classes on subjects like non-Islamic history. Gender segregation was extended \"to the humblest coffee shop\". The religious police became more assertive.\n\nGreater emphasis was put on religion in the media (increased religious programming on television and radio, and an increase in articles about religion in newspapers), in individual behavior, in government policies, in mosque sermons. In 1986 King Fahd replaced his title \"His Majesty\" with \"Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques\". The ulema's powers and financial support were strengthened in particular, they were given greater control over the education system and allowed to enforce stricter observance of Wahhabi rules of moral and social behaviour. These policies did not succeed in dampening the growth and strength of religious conservatives dissatisfied with the royal family.\n\nSaudi Islamism gained momentum following 1991 Gulf War. The presence of U.S. troops on Saudi soil from 1991 onwards was deeply unpopular with conservative Saudis and one of the major issues that has led to an increase in Islamist terrorism by Saudis inside and out of Saudi Arabia, (the 9/11 attacks in New York being the most prominent example).\n\nIslamist terrorist activity increased dramatically in 2003, with the Riyadh compound bombings and other attacks, which prompted the government to take much more stringent action against terrorism. The king (Abdullah) has also taken steps to rein back the powers of the ulema, for instance transferring their control over girls' education to the Ministry of Education.\nSome have complained that the king's dominance over the ulema has weakened the traditional Islamic legitimacy of Saudi throne.\n\nIslam plays a central role in Saudi society. It has been said that Islam is more than a religion, it is a way of life in Saudi Arabia, and, as a result, the influence of the ulema, the religious establishment, is all-pervasive. Article one of the 1992 Saudi \"Basic Law of Governance\" states,\n\"The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is a sovereign Arab Islamic State. Its religion is Islam. Its constitution is Almighty God's Book, The Holy Qur'an, and the Sunna (Traditions) of the Prophet (PBUH). Arabic is the language of the Kingdom.\" \n\nUnlike most Muslim countries, Saudi Arabia gives the ulema direct involvement in government, and fields a specifically \"religious\" police force, called the \"Haia\". (Iran gives the ulema much more influence and also has a religious police.) According to Robert Baer, this power is only over certain sectors of governance. The founder of Saudi Arabia, Ibn Saud, established a division of power (according to Baer) with the Wahhabi religious establishment in 1932. In \"return for allowing it control of the mosques, culture, and education\", the ulema or religious establishment \"would never go near core political issues, such as royal succession, foreign policy, and the armed forces.\" This agreement has \"been more or less respected\" since 1932. Historians note that in his alliance with the House of Saud, Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab called for the state to have an \"imam\" (religious leader, himself) and an \"emir\" (military leader, Ibn Saud). However, the third head of the House of Saud used the title \"Imam\", and Saudi kings have served in this role since.\n\nA Council of Senior Scholars, appointed and paid by the government advises the king on religious matters. The ulema have also been a key influence in major government decisions, have a significant role in the judicial and education systems and a monopoly of authority in the sphere of religious and social morals. Not only is the succession to the throne subject to the approval of the ulema, but so are all new laws (royal decrees).\n\nThe religious police or Committee for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice numbers 3,500-4,000. Members patrol the streets enforcing dress codes, strict separation of men and women, salat prayer by Muslims during prayer times, investigating reports of witchcraft, and other behavior it believes to be commanded or forbidden by Islam.\n\nDaily life in Saudi Arabia is dominated by Islamic observance. Five times each day, Muslims are called to prayer from the minarets of mosques scattered throughout the country. Because Friday is the holiest day for Muslims, the weekend begins on Thursday. In accordance with Salafi doctrine, only two religious holidays are publicly recognized, \"Eid al-Fitr\" and \"Eid al-Adha\". Celebration of other Islamic holidays, such as the Prophet’s birthday and Day of Ashura are tolerated only when celebrated locally and on a small scale. Public observance of non-Islamic religious holidays is prohibited, with the exception of 23 September, which commemorates the unification of the kingdom. Conformity of behavior is highly valued as part of religion, apparent in sameness of dress. Almost all women wear a loose-fitting black abaya cloak covering all but their eyes and hands, almost all men wear a white thawb with a red and white checkered headdress.\n\nSharia, or Islamic law, is the basis of the legal system in Saudi Arabia. It is unique not only compared to Western systems, but also compared to other Muslim countries, as (according to its supporters) the Saudi model is closest to the form of law originally developed when Islam became established in the Arabian peninsula in the 7th century.\n\nThe Saudi courts impose a number of severe physical punishments. The death penalty can be imposed for a wide range of offences including murder, rape, armed robbery, repeated drug use, apostasy, adultery, witchcraft and sorcery and can be carried out by beheading with a sword, stoning or firing squad, followed by crucifixion.\n\nMany of the strict and unique practices in Saudi Arabia mentioned above come from Wahhabism, the official and dominant form of Sunni Islam in Saudi Arabia, named after the preacher and scholar Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab. Proponents consider the name derogatory, preferring the term Salafiyya, after the early Muslims known as the Salaf. This interpretation is often described as 'puritanical', 'intolerant' or 'ultra-conservative', however proponents believe its teachings seek to purify the practise of Islam of any innovations or practices that deviate from the seventh-century teachings of the Islamic prophet Muhammad and his companions. According to one anti-Wahhabi source (Stephen Schwartz), \"no more than\" 40% of Saudi nationals consider themselves Wahhabis.\n\nThe message of the school was the essential oneness of God (\"tawhid\"). The movement is therefore known by its adherents as \"ad dawa lil tawhid\" (the call to unity), and those who follow the call are known as \"ahl at tawhid\" (the people of unity) or \"muwahhidun\" (unitarians). The school puts an emphasis on following of the Athari school of thought. Ibn Abd-al-Wahhab, was influenced by the writings of Ibn Taymiyya and questioned the philosophical interpretations of Islam within the Ash'ari and Maturidi schools, claiming to rely on the Qur'an and the Hadith without speculative philosophy so as to not transgress beyond the limits of the early Muslims known as the Salaf. Ibn Abd-al-Wahhab attacked a \"perceived moral decline and political weakness\" in the Arabian Peninsula and condemned what he perceived as idolatry, the popular cult of saints, and shrine and tomb visitation.\n\nIn the 1990s, Saudi leadership did not emphasize its identity as inheritor of the Wahhabi legacy as such, nor did the descendants of Muhammad ibn Abd al Wahhab, the Al ash Shaykh, continue to hold the highest posts in the religious bureaucracy. Wahhabi influence in Saudi Arabia, however, remained tangible in the physical conformity in dress, in public deportment, and in public prayer. Most significantly, the Wahhabi legacy was manifest in the social ethos that presumed government responsibility for the collective moral ordering of society, from the behavior of individuals, to institutions, to businesses, to the government itself.\n\nThe Wahhabi mission has been dominant in most of the central region of Najd—its \"heartland\"—for two hundred years, but in most other parts of the country it has dominated only since 1913-1925. The eastern region has many Twelver Shias, the southern regions of Saudi Arabia has many Zaydi Shias. The hijaz region has long had a more pluralistic tradition. The southwest region of Asir is known for its followers of a local leader, Idris, revered by many as a Sufi saint, a concept which Wahhbism opposes. According to one estimate by Michael Mehrdad Izady, \"using cultural and not confessional criteria\", there are 4.3 million (25%) Shia, 4 million (23%) Wahhabi, 9 million (52%) non-Wahhabi Sunnis in Saudi Arabia Two critics of Wahhabism (Ali Al-Ahmed and Stephen Schwartz), also give a relatively high estimate of the non-Wahhabi population of Saudi Arabia—over 60%.\n\nAlthough Wahabism is a strand of Sunni Islam, the promotion of non-Salafi-Sunnism is restricted.\n\nAn estimated 15% of citizens in Saudi Arabia are Shia Muslims, most of whom are adherents to Twelver Shia Islam. Twelvers are predominantly represented by the Baharna community living in the Eastern Province, with the largest concentrations in Qatif, Al-Hasa, and Dammam. In addition there is a small Twelver Shia minority in Medina (called the Nakhawila). Sizable Zaydi and Isma'ili communities also live in Najran along the border with Yemen.\n\nShia, human rights groups and other observers have complained of \"systematic discrimination\" of Shia in Saudi Arabia \"in religion, education, justice, and employment\". Unlike other countries with sizable Shia populations (such as Iraq and Lebanon), Saudi Arabia has no Shia cabinet ministers, mayors or police chiefs. Shia are kept out of \"critical jobs\" in the armed forces and the security services, and not one of the three hundred Shia girls’ schools in the Eastern Province has a Shia principal. In the Eastern provinces of Saudi Arabia there are Shia courts who deal with cases such as marriage, divorce and inheritance. Shia demonstrations in Qatif have sometimes led to conflict with Sunni Saudi religious authorities who disapprove of Shia commemorations marking the martyrdom of Hussein ibn Ali by the Sunni Caliph Yazid I. There also Shias living in Southern Saudi Arabia, who are mostly from the Zaydi branch.\n\nAhmadiyya is a small persecuted Islamic cult in Saudi Arabia. There are \"no accurate figures\" for the number of Ahmadi in Saudi Arabia. Ahmadis are officially banned from entering the country and are barred from performing the pilgrimage to Mecca. This has led to criticisms from multiple human rights organizations. They are primarily foreign workers from India and Pakistan and some from other countries. An increasing number of Saudi citizens identify as Ahmadis. Since the Ahmadiyya faith is banned in the country, there are no Ahmadi mosques. Ahmadis generally gather together in private properties for their daily prayers, thereby limiting exposure to the local authorities.\n\nFrom the very early history of the Ahmadiyya Movement in the 19th century, Ahmadis have had contact with the region in what were then a number of Ottoman provinces in the Arabian peninsula, primarily due to their spiritual connection to the two holy cities of Mecca and Medina.\n\nSaudi Arabia, and specifically Mecca and Medina, in Hejaz are the cradle of Islam, and the pilgrimage destinations for large numbers of Muslims from across the Islamic world. One of the King's titles is Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, the two mosques being Al-Masjid al-Haram in Mecca, which contains Islam's most sacred place (the Kaaba) and Al-Masjid an-Nabawi in Medina which contains Muhammad's tomb.\n\nThe Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca, occurs annually between the first and tenth days of the last month of the Muslim year, Dhul Hajj. The Hajj represents the culmination of the Muslim's spiritual life. For many, it is a lifelong ambition. From the time of embarking on the journey to make the Hajj, pilgrims often experience a spirit of exaltation and excitement; the meeting of so many Muslims of all races, cultures, and stations in life in harmony and equality moves many people deeply. Certain rites of pilgrimage may be performed any time, and although meritorious, these constitute a lesser pilgrimage, known as umrah.\nThe Ministry of Pilgrimage Affairs and Religious Trusts handles the immense logistical and administrative problems generated by such a huge international gathering. The government issues special pilgrimage visas that permit the pilgrim to visit Mecca and to make the customary excursion to Medina to visit the Prophet's tomb. Care is taken to assure that pilgrims do not remain in the kingdom after the Hajj to search for work.\n\nAn elaborate guild of specialists assists the Hajjis. Guides (mutawwifs) who speak the pilgrim's language make the necessary arrangements in Mecca and instruct the pilgrim in the proper performance of rituals; assistants (wakils) provide subsidiary services. Separate groups of specialists take care of pilgrims in Medina and Jiddah. Water drawers (zamzamis) provide water drawn from the sacred well.\n\nSince the late 1980s, the Saudis have been particularly energetic in catering to the needs of pilgrims. In 1988, a US$l5 billion traffic improvement scheme for the holy sites was launched. The improvement initiative resulted partly from Iranian charges that the Saudi government was incompetent to guard the holy sites after a 1987 clash between demonstrating Iranian pilgrims and Saudi police left 400 people dead. A further disaster occurred in 1990, when 1,426 pilgrims suffocated or were crushed to death in one of the new air-conditioned pedestrian tunnels built to shield pilgrims from the heat. The incident resulted from the panic that erupted in the overcrowded and inadequately ventilated tunnel, and further fueled Iranian claims that the Saudis did not deserve to be in sole charge of the holy places. In 1992, however, 114,000 Iranian pilgrims, close to the usual level, participated in the Hajj.\n\nThe religious establishment in Saudi Arabia, led by the Al ash-Sheikh, which influences almost every aspect of social life, is deeply involved in politics. It has long been fractured into at least two distinct groups, with the senior ulema closely tied to the political agenda of the House of Saud. A younger generation of ulema, who are less firmly established and more radical in tone, have openly criticized the senior ulema and the government in the past. Fractures between the government and this younger generation deepened in May 2003, when Riyadh fired or suspended thousands of them. Many were to be \"re-educated,\" while others were simply ousted from the religious establishment. The move did little to endear the government to an already frustrated and religiously radical cadre of clerics.The Islamic Legitimacy of the modern Saudi state has been questioned by many groups and individuals including Al-Qaeda.\n\nSaudi Arabia's grand mufti, Sheikh Abdul-Aziz ibn Abdullah Al ash-Sheikh, has defended the religious establishment's legitimacy in a public forum, while responding to mounting criticism of the religious leadership's close political alliance with the ruling House of Saud. During a question-and-answer session with members of the public and the media, Al Al-Sheikh denied that the government influenced fatwas (religious rulings) and said accusations to the contrary within the media were false:\n\nBoth the criticism and the public response to it indicate a deepening level of dissent, not only within the kingdom's religious establishment, but also among the public. It is significant that the question was asked and answered in a public forum, and then reprinted in the media -- including the Arabic and English language newspapers. Similar questions of legitimacy will arise in coming months, with the kingdom's religious, political and perhaps military leaderships becoming the focal points for increasingly intense criticism.\n\nThat Al Al-Sheikh answered the question about government influence over fatwas so openly is a clear indicator that the public has growing concerns about the legitimacy of religious leaders. Also, that the statements were reprinted in the press signals that the Saudi government -- which wields enormous influence over the local press -- is moving to respond to the charges of undue influence and corruption and illegitimacy.\n\n\n[[Category:Islam in Saudi Arabia| ]]\n[[Category:Religion in Saudi Arabia]]\n[[Category:Islam by country|Saudi Arabia]]"}
{"id": "27028037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27028037", "title": "Jesús Mateo Calderón Barrueto", "text": "Jesús Mateo Calderón Barrueto\n\nJesús Mateo Calderón Barrueto (21 September 1920 in Cajabamba – 28 October 2010 in Puno) was a Peruvian prelate of the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nCalderón was ordained a priest on December 27, 1947 from the Roman Catholic religious order of the Order of Friars Preachers. Calderón was appointed auxiliary bishop of the Diocese of Ica, as well as titular bishop of Mevania, on March 13, 1969 and was ordained bishop on April 27, 1969. Calderón was appointed bishop of the Diocese of Puno on November 3, 1972, where he served until his retirement on February 14, 1998. \n"}
{"id": "20583069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20583069", "title": "Juma and the Magic Jinn", "text": "Juma and the Magic Jinn\n\nJuma and the Magic Jinn is a children's picture book written by Joy Anderson and illustrated by Charles Mikolaycak. First published in 1986, this folktale with an African setting tells the story of a fictional, daydreaming boy named Juma who is living on the real Lamu Island just off the East coast of Kenya. Desiring to be some place where he won't have to study or behave, Juma seeks the help of a magical jinn (in English, a genie), a decision which leads Juma on misadventures. In the same year the book was published, \"Juma and the Magic Jinn\" won a 1986 Golden Kite Award for Mikolaycak's illustrations. These illustrations additionally played a role in Mikolaycak receiving the 1987 Kerland Award \"in recognition of singular attainments in the creation of children's literature.\"\n\n\"Juma and the Magic Jinn\" is an African folklore inspired children's book written Joy Anderson and illustrated by Charles Mikolaycak (26 January 1937 – 23 June 1993). The book illustrations use double-page spreads to capture a sequential picture style containing an attention to details, colours, and African setting patterns. Targeted for children ages 6–9, the folktale takes place on Lamu, a real island just off the East coast of Kenya that was established as early as the fourteenth century by Arab traders and is populated with Moslems. It was Anderson's visit to the island that inspired the University of Central Florida adjunct professor to write about a present-day boy who had a fairy-tale adventure.\n\nOn the seafaring Lamu Island, families traditionally keep a jinn jar at home. The jinn jar is a container that holds a supernatural being in Islam and Arabian mythology called a jinn (in English, a genie). The jinn jar is kept sealed because the owners do not know if their magic jinn is good or evil, which makes people of Lamu Island generally afraid of the jinns.\n\nThe story opens with a young student named Juma daydreaming in a school instead of doing his mathematics. Since the young Juma concentrates more on his own directions of thought rather than the lessons being taught, the teacher sends Juma home. On the way home, he comes across his mother buying fish at the shore. His mother admonishes his daydreaming in school and suggests that Juma may be better off working with his father to cut mangrove poles. She instruction Juma to go home, but instructs Juma to not touch the jinn jar.\n\nAt home, Juma disobeys his mother's prior instructions and removes the cork sealing the jinn jar and calls the jinn. Juma is sceptical about his efforts and does not believe in magic. However, the magic jinn appears, in this instance as a \"young woman with black and smiling catlike eyes,\" whose dark hair is tied with amber beads. The jinn offers to grant Juma wishes. Desiring to be some place where he won't have to study or behave, Juma formulates his wishes to overcome his need for schooling, particularly math and writing (\"sums and script\"). The magic jinn grants some of Juma's wishes and is sent away from his home on what turns out to be misadventures. Eventually, Juma is able to get home again but arrives with new appreciation of his home and family and realisation that learning can be exciting and fun.\n\n\"Juma and the Magic Jinn\" was published in 1986. In that same year, \"Juma and the Magic Jinn\" was awarded Honor Book in the picture book illustration category of Golden Kite Award. In February 1987, the dark, rich color illustrations in the African folklore book were singled out as strong and handsome elements that emphasise the mystery of the tale. These and other illustrations lead to Mikolaycak receiving the 1987 Kerland Award \"in recognition of singular attainments in the creation of children's literature.\" From 12 September 1993 to 1 May 1994, the McKissick Museum at the University of South Carolina exhibited \"Juma and the Magic Jinn\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8131476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8131476", "title": "Keren Cytter", "text": "Keren Cytter\n\nKeren Cytter (born 22 August 1977) is an Israeli visual artist and writer.\n\nCytter, born 22 August 1977, spent her childhood in Israel and went on to study visual arts at the Avni Institute of Art and Design, Tel Aviv. After finding success in various galleries in her home country, she moved to Amsterdam on a scholarship from De Ateliers where she studied with Willem de Rooij and Marlene Dumas. Her scope of work includes film, video installations, performance, drawings and photography. She is also a writer of novels, theatre plays and poetry.\n\nCytter is best known for her textually based video art. Her narratives, although extremely fragmented, have a tendency to embody the post-modern self-awareness of the characters in her films. Through the development and execution of Cytter's unique style, she has found herself a niche in the art world which has brought her more and more critical attention and made her one of the most renowned artists of her generation.\n\nAfter graduating from De ateliers in Amsterdam, Cytter made several works which went on to be shown internationally including \"The Date Series\" (2004, a series of short narratives written, filmed and produced in the period of one year), \"The Victim\" (2006), \"Repulsion\" (2005, based on Polanski's Repulsion), and \"The Milk Man\" (2003). Among her most famous work is \"Der Spiegel\" from 2007. In just one long shot she stages a Shakespearean drama in a stripped contemporary Berlin apartment in which a middle-aged woman is forced to confront the realities of her fading sexual attractiveness by a sadistic pair of younger women. \"Four Seasons\" (2009) is another example of essential Cytter: the absurdist low-fi mixture of a variety of film genres, from Film noir to Melodrama, culminates in the iconic shot of a burning Christmas tree set to the dramatic music of Ferrante & Teicher.\n\nIn 2008 Cytter formed a dance company called D.I.E NOW (Dance International Europe Now) consisting of 5 non-professional dancers. Their first production \"History in the Making - The True Story of John Webber\", which was based on a wide range of influences including Pina Bausch, Samuel Beckett, Disney on Ice, Michael Jackson, Yvonne Rainer and the 1980s dance-floor filler Lambada, went on an international tour and was presented in Tate Modern's Turbine Hall in London, The Kitchen in New York City, Tramway in Glasgow and Hebbel am Ufer in Berlin.\n\nThe same year the British magazine Art Review ran a cover story on her entitled \"I just wanted to attract attention\".\n\nShe initiated her foundation APE - \"art projects era\" together with Dutch curator Maaike Gouwenberg in 2010. The aim of the organization is to develop projects (performances, exhibitions, printed matter, meetings) that cannot necessarily be realized within traditional institutional formats or frameworks.\n\nLater that year she wrote and directed the play \"Show Real Drama\", produced by APE and partly based on the lives of its two actors, Susanne Meyer and Fabian Stumm. In the piece, which uses videos and repetitive dialogue and movements creating a fractured yet empathetic storyline, they are struggling with the demanding entertainment business while their relationship is slowly falling apart. The production met with great success, the Houston Chronicle calling it \"intriguing (...) something deconstructionist architect Frank Gehry might conjure if he were a playwright; a story pulled apart at the seams then re-configured with cool wit and 21st-century angst.\" As of 2014, the play has been performed all around the world from London, New York City and Houston to Shanghai, Beijing and Seoul.\n\nIn the spring of 2010 her work was featured on the cover of the American Art Magazine Artforum, which ran an extensive story on her body of work.\n\nHer next play \"Anke is Gone\" or \"I Eat Pickles At Your Funeral\" opened in Berlin at Hebbel am Ufer in 2011 and was invited to the Images Festival Toronto in 2012.\n\nIn 2013 Cytter collaborated with musicians Keira Fox, Charlie Feinstein and David Aird on \"Vociferous\", a fluid combination of musical concert, video work and performance which was presented at the ICA Institute of Contemporary Art, London. Adrian Searle wrote in his The Guardian review: \"As a mix of live performance and video, the recent collaboration between Adam Curtis and Massive Attack at the Manchester International Festival set a standard. Vociferous is both more intimate, more alienating, and more of a mash-up (...) After a bit I gave up trying to follow anything like a story, if there was one, or to chase the projected imagery, which came and went intermittently, first on one screen, then another. I felt a bit of a berk, running through the crowd with a notebook, trying to keep up, like an undercover cop blowing my own cover. Towards the end, Fox and Feinstein take up the electronic drums, and Fox starts singing from a ragged sheet of lyrics, the music hitting such a pitch that my nostril-hairs start to vibrate in sympathy.\"\n\nAfter six years in Berlin, Cytter relocated to New York City in 2012 where she initiated a quarterly publication focusing on art and poetry. Published by APE, it has so far featured Nora Schultz, John Kelsey and writings of Josef Strau, Matthew Dickman, Roman Baembaev, Roger van Voorhees and Sylvia Mae Gorelick.\n\nHer 2013 solo exhibition at Pilar Corrias Gallery in London presented an ambitious new body of work called MOP (\"Museum of Photography\") - a large archive of Polaroid photographs documenting her life as she travelled from Berlin and London, to the United States and Israel from 2012 to 2013. Taken with her 1200i and One step 600 Polaroid camera, the photographs are carefully categorised by geography and chronology and then arranged into sub-sections, titled A, B, C and D and so on, via their aesthetic. Images of friends, colleagues, curators she encountered, museums she worked in, landscapes she passed through, and her own performances are all featured. The collection consists of more than 800 polaroids.\n\nIn addition to her video and performance work, Cytter is also a critically acclaimed writer. Next to her three novels \"The Man Who Climbed the Stairs of Life and Found Out They Were Cinema Seats\" (2005), \"The Seven Most Exciting Hours of Mr. Trier’s Life in Twenty-Four Chapters\" (2008) and \"The Amazing True Story of Moshe Klinberg – A Media Star\" (2009), she has published poems as well as excerpts of her diary called \"White Diaries\" in 2010. She also wrote the libretto for the chamber opera \"Le Voisin\" by Thomas Myrmel.\n\n\"I studied art because I wanted to go to New York and wash dishes.\" (2010)\n\n\"Artists are like bees. Hard to catch, they have the tendency to die after doing something meaningful.\" (2012)\n\n\"Not for epileptic people.\" (On her performance \"Vociferous\", 2013)\n\nIn 2006 Cytter won the Bâloise Prize at Art Basel, Switzerland. She also received the Ars Viva Prize 2008 in Berlin and was one of the four nominees for the 2008 Preis der Nationalgalerie für Junge Kunst, Berlin. In 2009 Cytter became the first recipient of the Absolut Art Award in Stockholm and was shortlisted for the Future Generation Art Prize in 2010.\n\n\n\nShe is represented by the galleries Pilar Corrias, London, Nagel Draxler, Berlin, Raffaella Cortese, Milan and Zach Feuer, New York City.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1262756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1262756", "title": "List of Hindu organisations", "text": "List of Hindu organisations\n\nHinduism is practiced and preached by many Hindu organisations, each of which follows the variants and perspectives of all or particular philosophy propagated and transferred through generations by saints. Hinduism may be more of a custom or tradition of that part of the world which the great epics of Hinduism are supposed to depict. Hinduism is based on the Vedas, some of which are humanity's oldest inscriptions on life and spirituality. They differ on how to achieve life's ultimate goal – \"Atma Jnana\" or self-realisation. Devotees can choose any path depending on their individual natures.\n\nThis is a list of notable organisations related to Hinduism.\n\nrashtriya hindu shakti sangathan\n\n[[Category:Lists of religious organizations|Hindu] Vishwa Hindu Maha samiti"}
{"id": "161235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161235", "title": "Liturgical colours", "text": "Liturgical colours\n\nLiturgical colours are those specific colours used for vestments and hangings within the context of Christian liturgy. The symbolism of violet, white, green, red, gold, black, rose and other colours may serve to underline moods appropriate to a season of the liturgical year or may highlight a special occasion.\n\nThere is a distinction between the colour of the vestments worn by the clergy and their choir dress, which with a few exceptions does not change with the liturgical seasons.\n\nIn the Roman Rite, as reformed by Pope Paul VI, the following colours are used.\n\nOn more solemn days, i.e. festive, more precious, sacred vestments may be used, even if not of the colour of the day. Such vestments may, for instance, be made from cloth of gold or cloth of silver. Moreover, the Conference of Bishops may determine and propose to the Apostolic See adaptations suited to the needs and culture of peoples.\n\nRitual Masses are celebrated in their proper colour, in white, or in a festive colour. Masses for Various Needs, on the other hand, are celebrated in the colour proper to the day or the season or in violet if they bear a penitential character. Votive Masses are celebrated in the colour suited to the Mass itself or even in the colour proper to the day or the season.\n\nSome particular variations:\n\nThe Roman Missal, as revised by Pope John XXIII in 1962, was authorised for use as an extraordinary form of the Roman Rite by Pope Benedict XVI by the 2007 \"motu proprio\" entitled \"Summorum Pontificum\". Pope John XXIII's revision of the Missal incorporated changes that he had made with his \"motu proprio\" \"Rubricarum instructum\" of 29 July 1960; these changes went into effect on January 1, 1961. The following are the differences between its rules for liturgical colours and the later rules:\n\nPope Pius X raised the rank of Sundays of ordinary time, so that on those that fell within octaves green was used instead of the colour of the octave, as had previously been the rule.\n\nThe rules on liturgical colours before the time of Pope Pius X were essentially those indicated in the edition of the Roman Missal that Pope Pius V promulgated in 1570, except for the addition of feasts not included in his Missal. The scheme of colours in his Missal reflected usage that had become fixed in Rome by the twelfth century.\n\nThe Byzantine Rite, which is used by all the member churches of the Eastern Orthodox Church, the Byzantine Lutheran Churches and the Eastern Catholic Churches of Byzantine Rite, does not have a universal system of colours, with the service-books of the Byzantine tradition only specifying \"light\" or \"dark\" vestments in the service books. In the Greek tradition, maroon or burgundy are common for solemn feast days, and a wide variety of colours are used at other times, the most common of which are gold and white.\n\nSlavic-use churches and others influenced by Western traditions have adopted a cycle of liturgical colours. The particulars may change from place to place, but generally:\n\nThe colours would be changed before Vespers on the eve of the day being commemorated. During Great Feasts, the colour is changed before the vespers service that begins the first day of a forefeast, and remains until the apodosis (final day of the afterfeast).\n\nUnder Western influence, black is often used in the Slavic churches for funerals, weekdays of Great Lent, and Holy Week as a sign of penance and mourning, but in the second half of the 20th century, the ancient white became more common, as a sign of the hope of the Resurrection.\n\nAccording to the Russian Orthodox Church's \"Nastol'naya Kniga Sviashchenno-sluzhitelia\", up to eight different liturgical colours may be used throughout the year. Exact usage of these colours varies, but the following are the most common uses.\n\nThe Coptic tradition, followed by the Coptic Orthodox Church and the Coptic Catholic Church, only uses white vestments, with gold and silver being considered variations of white. The only exception is during Passion Week when black is used. Nonetheless, trimmings of red, gold or blue may be found on some vestments.\n\nThe liturgical tradition of Ethiopia, followed by the Ethiopian Orthodox Church and the Ethiopian Catholic Church, embraces a wide variety of liturgical colours. In Eritrea, similar traditions are followed.\n\nThe Evangelical Lutheran Church in America (ELCA), uses the same colour scheme as that of the Anglicans and their Scandinavian Lutheran counterparts, but with the use of gold only for the Easter Vigil and Easter Sunday services, with Holy Week using scarlet in place of crimson.\n\nBoth the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod (LCMS) and the Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod (WELS) use a similar system, but with purple being the primary colour for both Advent and Lent (with blue being the alternate colour for Advent only), and the use of gold in place of white for both Christmas and Easter (in similar practice to the Catholic Church). In the WELS, the use of red is also done during the \"Period of End Times\", a period of the Church regarding the teachings of the Book of Revelation, culminating in the creation of the New Jerusalem (corresponding to Christ the King in the ELCA). In all three churches, including the ELCA, red is also worn on the last Sunday of October, in celebration of the Reformation on October 31, when Martin Luther nailed the 95 Theses onto the door of Wittenberg Castle Church.\n\nMost Anglican churches use the colours appointed in the Roman Rite, usually in its post-1969 form, with the exception of Sarum Blue replacing violet for Advent, but some use the earlier form, with, for instance, black in place of red on Good Friday. Some churches use black at Masses for the dead, but more commonly white or purple is used. For historical reasons much of the worldwide Anglican Communion takes a noticeable lead from the practice of the Church of England. Since the 1980 Alternative Service Book, liturgical colours have been recommended for seasons, with more detailed advice offered as part of the Common Worship series of liturgies, including colours for all Sundays and festivals printed in the 'core volume' next to collects.\n\nThe Church's published Lectionary now makes detailed suggestions for liturgical colour throughout the year, which corresponds almost exactly with the above table of Roman Rite (post-1969 usage) usage with five minor exceptions, and one more significant one:\n\nThe colour scheme suggested by the Church of England also indicates where gold vestments should be used in those churches that possess gold and white as distinct colours. The use of rose-pink vestments, as in the Roman Rite table above, was mentioned as an option in early editions of Common Worship, and is a listed option in the annual published lectionary; however, later Common Worship publications have begun to refer to this practice as \"traditional\" reflecting its resurgence.\n\nThe Sarum Rite was a medieval liturgical rite used in England before the Reformation which had a distinct set of liturgical colours. After the Anglo-Catholic Revival of the 19th century, certain Church of England churches began adopting Sarum liturgical colours as an attempt to produce something that was an English expression of Catholicism rather than a Roman expression. One of the chief advocates behind this was Percy Dearmer. The exact colours used by the mediaeval Sarum rite are a matter of dispute, but colours adopted by contemporary churches claiming to use the Sarum scheme include in particular deep blue for Advent, which may be popularly referred to as \"Sarum blue\", and unbleached linen for Lent. The Sarum rite has never received official approval in the Church of England or in The Episcopal Church, but has influenced a number of cathedrals and parish churches.\n\nMethodists use a colour scheme similar to those used by Lutherans and Catholics, although the practice is not universally followed. The United Methodist Church, prior to the early-1990s, used red solely for Pentecost, even including the Sundays after Pentecost Sunday, with the use of green being reserved for the season of Kingdomtide, which usually lasted from late August/early September until Christ the King (the last Sunday in Kingdomtide). Since the publication of the 1992 Book of Worship, the UMC has followed the ELCA practice of wearing red only for Pentecost and Reformation Sunday and green for the rest of the Pentecost season.\n\nThe Presbyterian Church (USA) has sanctioned the use of liturgical colours and promoted their use in the 1993 Book of Common Worship (although their use was also promoted in the church's annual Planning Calendars beginning in the 1980s). Advent and Lent are periods of preparation and repentance and are represented by the colour purple. The feasts of Christmas Day and Christmastide, Epiphany Sunday, Baptism of the Lord Sunday, Transfiguration Sunday, Easter Season, Trinity Sunday, and Christ the King Sunday are represented by white. Green is the colour for periods of Ordinary Time. Red is for Pentecost Sunday, but may also be used for ordinations, church anniversaries, and memorial services for ordained clergy. Red or purple are appropriate for Palm Sunday. During Holy Week, the church may use purple or remain bare (although a few churches will use black for Good Friday).\n\nSimilarly, the United Church of Christ includes indications of which liturgical colour to use for each Sunday in its annual calendar. The general Western pattern is followed, with either purple or blue recommended for Advent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6132260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6132260", "title": "Loren Bommelyn", "text": "Loren Bommelyn\n\nLoren Me’-lash-ne Bommelyn (born 1956) is a tradition bearer for the Tolowa tribe. He has dedicated himself to preserving the traditional songs, language, and basketry. He is the foremost ceremonial leader of the tribe, and its most prolific basketweaver. Bommelyn is an enrolled member of the federally recognized Tolowa Dee-ni' Nation and was elected as their tribal Chairperson.\n\nLoren Bommelyn is Tolowa, Karuk, and Wintu. His mother, Eunice Bommelyn, was a prominent tribal genealogist, Tolowa language proponent and cultural advocate. He is a fluent speaker of the Tolowa language and taught for many years at Del Norte High School in Crescent City, California. He earned his master's degree in Linguistics from the University of Oregon. After years of studying with Tolowa elders, Bommelyn has published educational material about the Tolowa language. He played a role in convincing the University of California system accept Native American languages as part of its entrance requirements for world language. He has advocated the use of the Tolowa language in modern technology, including Facebook and texting.\n\nBommelyn before retirement helped establish taughtT at Taa-'at-dvn Indian Magnet Charter School in Crescent City, with his wife, Lena Bommelyn who has retired from now. Of his work at Taa-'at-dvn, Loren says, \"It's important for students to know they can move about freely in American society and that they can be open and successful. We try to provide them opportunities for expansion and exploration.\n\nAs of 2012, Bommelyn's son, Pyuwa Bommelyn, is studying linguistics at the University of Oregon to continue Tolowa language preservation efforts.\n\nWhile women make most baskets among Northern California tribes, men traditionally weave open-work baskets with entire plant shoots. This requires both extreme physical strength and dexterity. Bommelyn specializes in these open-work, utilitarian baskets, especially those made with hazel shoots. He wove his first basket at the age of 12. Today he is known particularly for his work baskets and baby cradles.\n\n\"There's a fancy part of the basket and a realistic part. You want to strive for perfection, but at the same time you want to make it for a function... I want my baskets to be used. The old Indians say that things like to be used, that when they aren't used they get lonesome.\"\n\nBommelyn is a recipient of a 2002 National Heritage Fellowship awarded by the National Endowment for the Arts, which is the United States' highest honor in the folk and traditional arts. He was recognized for his work in preserving, practicing and promoting of Tolowa cultural traditions \"including its language, native regalia, ceremonial dances and songs, and basketmaking... He is today the single most knowledgeable individual of the indigenous language.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4904185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4904185", "title": "Malachi ben Jacob HaKohen", "text": "Malachi ben Jacob HaKohen\n\nMalachi ben Jacob ha-Kohen (also known as the Yad Malachi) (1695/1700? – 1772) was a renowned Talmudist, methodologist, and one of the greatest Kaballists of the 18th century. He was a student of the famous kabbalist Rabbi Joseph Ergas, author of the original kabbalistic text known as \"Shomer Emunim\". Born in Livorno sometime between 1695 and 1700, he passed on in the year 1772 and is considered the last of the great rabbinical authorities of Italy. Praised effusively by his contemporaries and quoted frequently by major halakhic authorities of the 18th and 19th centuries, he served as Rabbi of Livorno, Italy, and apparently lived to an old age. A decision by him, dated Nisan, 1732, and referring to a civil case at Rome, is included in the responsa of Rabbi Isaiah Bassani of Reggio (\"Todat Shelamim\", No. 11, 1741). During the controversy between Jonathan Eybeschutz and Jacob Emden he sided with the former (letter of the rabbinate of Leghorn in \"Luḥot 'Edut,\" p. 22). \n\nHe is most famous for his \"Yad Mal'aki\" (1766-7), a methodological work and compilation in three parts: part one contains an alphabetical list of all the rules and technical terms found in the Talmud, with explanations; part two deals with rules regarding the codifiers; part three deals with the rules relating to legal decisions, explaining certain general principles of legal responsa. Malachi wrote also a liturgical work, \"Shibḥe Todah\" (1744), containing prayers for the 22d of Shebaṭ, a fast-day instituted by the community of Leghorn. In addition to these, Malachi also wrote a \"Sefer Torah\" in his own hand which then became an authoritative reference for many details regarding the correct formation of various Hebrew letters.\n\nHis major work, the 'Yad Malachi', first printed in Livorno (1766), and later Berlin (1857), was praised by his contemporaries as well as halakhic authorities of later generations. Rabbi Yitzchak Shmelkes wrote that:\n\"Every reader of this book will be amazed by the way this living lion, the high priest...dives in the mighty waters, the sea of the Talmud. No secret is hidden from him\", while Rabbi Chaim Joseph David Azulai (the 'Chida') wrote:\n\"And after much time, the sun shone upon the land... with the precious book 'Yad Malachi', and as the eyes of servants to the hand of their masters, I have raised my eyes and seen...\" The 'Yad Malachi' was printed again in the late 20th century, and a new edition with greatly improved fonts, format, and biographical detail was printed in Israel in 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "6742252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6742252", "title": "Multiverse (religion)", "text": "Multiverse (religion)\n\nA multiverse is the concept of a plurality of universes. Some religious cosmologies propose that our universe is not the only one that exists.\n\nThe concept of infinite worlds is mentioned in the Apannaka Jataka:\n\"\"Disciples,\" the Buddha said \"nowhere between the lowest of hells below and the highest heaven above, nowhere in all the infinite worlds that stretch right and left, is there the equal, much less the superior, of a Buddha. Incalculable is the excellence which springs from obeying the Precepts and from other virtuous conduct.\"\" - Apannaka Jataka \n\nThe concept of multiverses is mentioned many times in Hindu Puranic literature, such as in the Bhagavata Purana:\n\"Every universe is covered by seven layers — earth, water, fire, air, sky, the total energy and false ego — each ten times greater than the previous one. There are innumerable universes besides this one, and although they are unlimitedly large, they move about like atoms in You. Therefore You are called unlimited\" (Bhagavata Purana 6.16.37)\nAnalogies to describe multiple universes also exist in the Puranic literature:\n\"Because You are unlimited, neither the lords of heaven nor even You Yourself can ever reach the end of Your glories. The countless universes, each enveloped in its shell, are compelled by the wheel of time to wander within You, like particles of dust blowing about in the sky. The śrutis, following their method of eliminating everything separate from the Supreme, become successful by revealing You as their final conclusion\" (Bhagavata Purana 10.87.41) \n\"The layers or elements covering the universes are each ten times thicker than the one before, and all the universes clustered together appear like atoms in a huge combination\" (Bhagavata Purana 3.11.41)\n\"And who will search through the wide infinities of space to count the universes side by side, each containing its Brahma, its Vishnu, its Shiva? Who can count the Indras in them all--those Indras side by side, who reign at once in all the innumerable worlds; those others who passed away before them; or even the Indras who succeed each other in any given line, ascending to godly kingship, one by one, and, one by one, passing away\" (Brahma Vaivarta Purana)\n\nThere are seven verses in the Quran describing seven heavens. One verse says that each heaven or sky has its own order, possibly meaning laws of nature. After mentioning the seven heavens, another verse says, \"and similar earths\". Examples include verse (67:3) \"He (God) who created the seven tournaments (heavens) one imposed over the other...\" The Quranic verse 65:12 also states, \"It is Allah who has created seven heavens and of the earth, the like of them.\" \nFakhr al-Din al-Razi (1149–1209), in dealing with his conception of physics and the physical world in his \"Matalib\", \"explores the notion of the existence of a multiverse in the context of his commentary\" on the Qur'anic verse, \"All praise belongs to God, Lord of the Worlds.\" He raises the question of whether the term \"worlds\" in this verse refers to \"multiple worlds within this single universe or cosmos, or to many other universes or a multiverse beyond this known universe.\" In volume 4 of the \"Matalib\", Al-Razi states:\nAl-Razi rejected the Aristotelian and Avicennian view of the impossibility of multiple universes. He pointed out what he saw as weaknesses of the main Aristotelian arguments against the existence of multiple universes. His rejection arose from his affirmation of the atomism advocated by the Ash'ari school of Islamic theology. This version of atomism has specific views about the vacant space, or void, in which the atoms move, combine and separate. He spoke of the \"void\" in greater detail in volume 5 of the \"Matalib\". He argued that God can fill the vacuum with an infinite number of universes.\n\nIbn Arabi (1165-1240) held that, since God is endless, consequently there can be no end of created universes.\n\nThe concept of parallel worlds is also mentioned in Kabbalah:\n\"There are five worlds between the Creator and our world. Each of them consists of five Partzufim and each Partzuf of five Sefirot. In total there are 125 levels between us and the Creator. Malchut, moving through all these levels, reaches the last one, and in this way, Behina Dalet, the only creation, merges with the four previous phases.\"\n\nBecause Mormonism teaches that Jesus created the universe, yet his father, God the Father, once dwelt upon an earth as a mortal, it may be interpreted that Mormonism teaches the existence of a multiverse, and it is not clear if the other inhabited worlds mentioned in LDS scripture and teachings refers to planets within this universe or not.\n\nThe idea of multiple universes has been entertained by Mormon leaders since its beginnings. Brigham Young taught there is no such thing as \"empty space\", lending to the idea that any space beyond this universe is occupied. Apostle Orson Pratt said, \"We can come to no other conclusion, but that worlds, and systems of worlds, and universes of worlds existed in the boundless heights and depths of immensity…\". Pratt also taught, \"Can we get away from it? No; for it fills all the intermediate spaces between world and world, between one system and another, and between universe and universe ... and there is no space in which there is no kingdom, and there is no kingdom in which there is no space\" (Mar 14, 1875) (Journal of Discourses Volume 1 the Adam-God Revelation, chapters 12:6; 25:24; 126:7).\n\nThe philosopher and forerunner of the New Age movement P. D. Ouspensky stated in 1934: \n\nMany religions include an afterlife existence in realms, such as heavens and hells, which may be very different from the observable universe.\n\nEschatological scenarios may include a new different world after the end time of the current one. For example, Hindu cosmology includes the idea of an infinite cycle of births and deaths and an infinite number of universes with each cycle lasting 8.64 billion years.\n"}
{"id": "28303409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28303409", "title": "Narinder Singh Kapoor", "text": "Narinder Singh Kapoor\n\nNarinder Singh Kapoor (born 6 March 1944) is an award-winning writer from Punjab, India. His writings are about social, cultural and psychological issues. He lives in Patiala, Punjab.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nhttp://hook2book.com/index.php?rt=product/search&keyword=Narinder%20Singh%20Kapoor\n\n"}
{"id": "5660580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5660580", "title": "Noam Gottesman", "text": "Noam Gottesman\n\nNoam Gottesman (born May 1961) is a New York City-based, British-American businessman, former hedge fund manager, and co-founder of GLG Partners. He later entered the restaurant industry, investing in establishments including Eleven Madison Park in New York City, voted the world's number one restaurant by \"The World's 50 Best Restaurants\" in 2017. He is also the CEO of TOMS Capital. Gottesman has dual citizenship in the US and UK, and was listed on the April 2017 \"Forbes 400\" list of richest people in America, with a net worth of $2.4 billion.\n\nGottesman was born in May 1961, to a Jewish family, the son of Israel Museum president Dov Gottesman. He received a BA from Columbia University.\n\nGottesman worked at the Goldman Sachs London office and became its executive director while managing global equity portfolios for their private client group. He left Goldman Sachs in 1995 with Pierre Lagrange and Jonathan Green to co-found GLG Partners. The company went on to manage $24.6 billion and become a publicly traded entity on the New York Stock Exchange (November 2007) and had up to $24.6 billion in assets under management. Gottesman and his partners sold the company to the Man Group in October 2010 for $1.6 billion. Gottesman continued to serve as GLG's co-CEO until January 2012 when he became the non-executive Chairman for GLG's business in the US.\n\nGottesman is the CEO of the investment company TOMS Capital. Other activities include ownership of the restaurant Eleven Madison Park trustee at his alma mater Columbia University and board member at the Tate Gallery Foundation. Gottesman is on the Chairman's Council of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the International Council of the Museum of Modern Art. He is also on the boards of Columbia University Medical Center, and NY Presbyterian Hospital. Other activities include ownership of the restaurants Eleven Madison Park, which has been voted the number 1 restaurant in the world by \"The World's 50 Best Restaurants\" magazine publication, and Shuko, which \"New York Magazine\" voted the \"Best Sushi in New York\". He also owns Nomad, and the eponymous investment vehicle also named \"Nomad\" that he cofounded, which purchased Iglo Group, purveyor of Birds Eye Frozen Products.\n\nGottesman married Geraldine Gottesman and had four children. They later divorced.\n\nGottesman comes from a family of art collectors, and is among the 200 most notable collectors according to ARTnews. He owns pieces by Francis Bacon and Lucian Freud and Andy Warhol. In 2008, Gottesman sold his 14,700-square-foot mansion in London's Kensington neighborhood to billionaire steel tycoon Lakshmi Mittal.\n\nIn 2014 he was dating the actress Lucy Liu. In 2015, Gottesman married Bianca Dueñas, director of sales for fashion designer Reed Krakoff.\n"}
{"id": "23130977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23130977", "title": "Our Lady of Soufanieh", "text": "Our Lady of Soufanieh\n\nOur Lady of Soufanieh refers to Marian apparitions reported to have occurred in Soufanieh, a suburb of Damascus in Syria.\n\nThe apparitions reportedly occurred in December 1982, and January, February and March 1983. A flow of oil from an image of the Virgin Mary (described as miraculous), as well as oozing of oil from the face and hands of Myrna Nazzour, is said by observers to have accompanied the apparitions.\n\nReporter Brigid Keenan wrote that the oil ostensibly produced by Nazzour has been analyzed as \"100 per cent olive oil\", and that hundreds of people, including some doctors and psychiatrists, have witnessed Nazzour's secretions and failed to find evidence of trickery. According to her reports, Nazzour developed stigmata wounds in the \"forehead, hands, feet and side\", and the Virgin appeared to her outside her own home. Nazzour said the Virgin told her that \"Christians should pray for peace, love one another and pray for the unity of the Christian churches.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35764601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35764601", "title": "Prophetiae Merlini", "text": "Prophetiae Merlini\n\nThe Prophetiæ Merlini is a Latin work of Geoffrey of Monmouth circulated, perhaps as a \"libellus\" or short work, from about 1130, and by 1135. Another name is Libellus Merlini.\n\nThe work contains a number of prophecies attributed to Merlin, the wizard of legend, whose mythical life is often regarded as created by Geoffrey himself although Geoffrey himself claims to have based on older Brittonic traditions some of which may have been oral but now lost. The \"Prophetiae\" preceded Geoffrey's larger \"Historia Regum Britanniæ\" of c. 1136, and was mostly incorporated in it, in Book VII; the prophecies, however, were influential and widely circulated in their own right. According to Geoffrey, he was prompted by Alexander of Lincoln to produce this section of his larger work separately.\n\nThe \"Prophetiæ\" is in some ways dependent on the \"De Excidio et Conquestu Britanniæ\" of Gildas. From Gildas and Nennius Geoffrey took the figure of Ambrosius Aurelianus, who figures in the preface to the prophecies (under a variant name): there is then a confusion made between Ambrosius and Merlin, deliberately done.\n\nWhen Geoffrey's \"Historia\" was largely translated by Wace into the \"Roman de Brut\", he omitted the material on Merlin's prophecies, though he does profess knowledge of them. It was still read in Latin, but was displaced for readers in French, and then English, by other political prophecy.\n\nThis work not only launched Merlin as a character of Arthurian legend: it also created a genre of prophecy. A distinctively English style of political prophecy, which has been called \"Galfridian\", was created, in which animals represent particular political figures. Political prophecy in this style remained popular for at least 400 years. It was subversive, and the figure of the prophetic Merlin was strongly identified with it.\n\nThe \"Prophetiae\" is the work that introduced the character of Merlin (Merlinus), as he later appears in Arthurian legend. He mixes pagan and Christian elements. In this work Geoffrey drew from the established bardic tradition of prophetic writing attributed to the sage Myrddin, though his knowledge of Myrddin's story at this stage in his career appears to have been slight.\n\nIn the preface Vortigern asks Ambrosius (Merlin) to interpret the meaning of a vision. In it two dragons fought, one red and one white. Merlin replies that the Red Dragon meant the British race, the White Dragon the Saxons. The Saxons would be victorious. A long prophetic sequence forms the body of the work, relating mainly to the wars.\n\nMany of its prophecies referring to historical and political events up to Geoffrey's lifetime can be identified – for example, the sinking of the White Ship in 1120, when William Adelin, son of Henry I, died.\n\nGeoffrey apparently introduced the spelling \"Merlin\", derived from the Welsh \"\". The Welsh scholar Rachel Bromwich observed that this \"change from medial \"dd\" > \"l\" is curious. It was explained by Gaston Paris as caused by the undesirable associations of the French word \"merde\"\".. Alternatively this may preserve the Breton or Cornish original to which he may have been referring; John of Cornwall's (1141-55) version is notable for its localisation in the southwestern region known to Gildas & Nennius as Dumnonia.\n\nThe first work about the prophet Myrddin in a language other than Welsh, the \"Prophetiae\" was widely read — and believed — much as the prophecies of Nostradamus were centuries later; John Jay Parry and Robert Caldwell note that the \"Prophetiae Merlini\" \"were taken most seriously, even by the learned and worldly wise, in many nations\", and list examples of this credulity as late as 1445.\n\nOrdericus Vitalis quoted from the \"Prophetiae\" around 1134–5. At much the same time, and in the same area, Abbot Suger copied some of the prophecies almost exactly in his \"Life\" of Louis the Fat, for the purpose of praising Henry I of England. In the 1140s or early 1150s John of Cornwall produced another work collecting prophecies, that drew on the \"Prophetiae\". It contained elements from other sources, however, which predominate. This work was also named \"Prophetiae Merlini\". Gunnlaugr Leifsson made an Icelandic translation of the prophecies, \"Merlinús spá\". There is a 15th-century English manuscript commentary on Geoffrey's work.\n\nIn the 16th century the founding legends of British history came under strong criticism, in particular from Polydore Vergil. On the other hand, they had their defenders, and there was a revival of Arthurian lore with a Protestant slant, used in particular by John Dee to develop the concept of the British Empire in the New World. By the 17th century Geoffrey's history in general, and Merlin's prophecies in particular, had become largely discredited as fabrications, for example as attacked by William Perkins. But the politics of the Union of the Crowns of 1603 gave the prophecies a short new lease of life (see Jacobean debate on the Union). \"The Whole Prophesie of Scotland\" of that year treated Merlin's prophecies as authoritative. James Maxwell, a student of prophecy who put it to political use in the reign of James VI and I, distinguished between the Welsh and \"Caledonian\" Merlins.\n"}
{"id": "21791741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21791741", "title": "Ramagrama stupa", "text": "Ramagrama stupa\n\nRamagrama stupa (, also Ramgram, Rāmgrām, Rāmagrāma) is a stupa located in Ramgram Municipality, in the Nawalparasi District of Nepal. This Buddhist pilgrimage site, which was constructed some 2500 years ago, contains relics of Gautama Buddha.\n\nGautama Buddha's parents were from two different mahājanapadās (kingdoms) of the Solar dynasty — his father (Śuddhodana) belonged to the Shakya kingdom, while his mother (Maya) was from the Koliya kingdom. According to Buddhist texts, after Buddha's Mahaparinirvana, his cremated remains were divided and distributed among the princes of eight of the sixteen mahājanapadās. Each of the princes constructed a stupa at or near his capital city, within which the respective portion of the ashes was enshrined. These eight stupas were located at:\n\nSome 300 years later, Emperor Ashoka opened seven of these stupas and removed the Buddha relics (his goal was to redistribute the relics into 84,000 stupas which he planned to construct throughout the Maurya Empire). According to legend, the serpent king was guarding the Ramagrama stupa, and prevented Ashoka from unearthing the relic.\n\nTo this day, Ramagrama stupa remains the only intact and original stupa containing relics of Lord Buddha. The stupa has been an object of great reverence and pilgrimage site since its original construction. The stupa is now buried under a mound of earth and is awaiting further research.\n\nThis site was added to the World Heritage Tentative List by UNESCO on May 23, 1996 in the Cultural category.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29965907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29965907", "title": "Religion in pre-colonial Philippines", "text": "Religion in pre-colonial Philippines\n\nThe nature of religion in the pre-colonial Philippines is often unclear. Religions present include animism, indigenous religious beliefs and mythologies such as Anito and influences from Hinduism and Buddhism. The earliest pieces of evidence that exist are archaeological finds including Hindu–Buddhist gold statues. The earliest written evidence comes from the Laguna Copperplate Inscription, dated to around 900 CE, which uses the Buddhist–Hindu lunar calendar. With the arrival of Islam in the 14th century, the older religions gradually disappeared, and after the arrival of Ferdinand Magellan in 1521 Christianity, specifically Roman Catholicism, became the dominant religion. However, some of the indigenous peoples of the Philippines continue to practice animism today, and many of the traditions in Anito have survived in the form of Folk Catholicism.\n\nAnimism was widely practiced in the pre-colonial Philippines. Today, only a handful of the indigenous tribes continue to practice the old traditions. The term animism encompasses a collection of beliefs and cultural mores anchored more or less in the idea that the world is inhabited by spirits and supernatural entities, both good and bad, and that respect must be accorded to them through worship. These nature spirits are known as \"diwatas\", related to Hindu Devatas.\n\nSome worship specific deities, such as the Tagalog supreme deity, Bathala, and his children Adlaw, Mayari, and Tala, or the Visayan deity Kan-Laon. Others practice ancestor worship. Animistic practices vary between different ethnic groups. Magic, chants and prayers are often key features. Its practitioners were highly respected (and sometimes feared) in the community, as they were healers, midwives (\"hilot\"), shamans, witches and warlocks (\"mangkukulam\"), priests/priestesses (\"babaylan/katalonan\"), tribal historians and wizened elders that provided the spiritual and traditional life of the community. In the Visayan regions, shamanistic and animistic beliefs in witchcraft (\"barang\") and mythical creatures like \"aswang\" (vampires), \"duwende\" (dwarves), and \"bakonawa\" (a gigantic sea serpent) Similarly to Naga, may exist in some indigenous peoples alongside more mainstream Christian and Islamic faiths.\n\nAnito is a collective name for the pre-Hispanic belief system in the Philippines. It is also used to refer to spirits, including the household deities, deceased ancestors, nature-spirits, nymphs and \"diwatas\" (dryads). Ancient Filipinos kept statues to represent these spirits, ask guidance and protection. Elders, ancestors and the environment were all highly respected. Although Anito survives to the present day, it has for the most part been Christianized and incorporated into Folk Catholicism.\n\nDuring the pre-Hispanic period, \"babaylan\" were shamans and spiritual leaders and \"mananambal\" were medicine men. At the onset of the colonial era, the suppression of the \"babaylans\" and the native Filipino religion gave rise to the \"albularyo\". By exchanging the native prayers and spells with Catholic \"oraciones\" and Christian prayers, the albularyo was able to syncretize the ancient mode of healing with the new religion.\n\nAlthough no written record exists about early Buddhism in the Philippines, recent archaeological discoveries and a few scant references in the other nations's historical records can testify that Buddhism was present from the 9th century. These records mention the independent states that comprised the Philippine archipelago, rather one united country as the Philippines are organized today.\n\nEarly Philippine states became tributary states of the powerful Buddhist Srivijaya empire that controlled trade in Maritime Southeast Asia from the 6th to the 13th centuries. The states' trade contacts with the empire either before or during the 9th century served as a conduit to introduce Vajrayana Buddhism to the Philippines.\n\nIn 1225, China's Zhao Rugua, a superintendent of maritime trade in Fukien province wrote the book entitled \"Zhu Fan Zhi\" () in which he described trade with a country called Ma-i on the island of Mindoro in Luzon. In it he said:\n\nIn the 12th century, Malay immigrants arrived in Palawan, where most settlements came to be ruled by Malay chieftains. They were followed by the Indonesians of the Majapahit Empire in the 13th century, and they brought with them Buddhism.\n\nSurviving Buddhist images and sculptures are primarily found in and at Tabon Cave.\nRecent research conducted by Philip Maise has included the discovery of giant sculptures, has also discovered what he believes to be cave paintings within the burial chambers in the caves depicting the Journey to the West.\n\nThe Chinese annal \"Song Shih\" recorded the first appearance of a tributary mission from Butuan (Li Yui-han 李竾罕 and Jiaminan) at the Chinese Imperial Court on March 17, 1001 AD. It described Butuan as a small maritime Hindu country with a Buddhist monarchy that had regular contact with Champa and intermittent contact with China under the Rajah named Kiling.\n\nThe Ancient Batangueños were influenced by India as shown in the origin of most languages from Sanskrit and certain ancient potteries. A Buddhist image was reproduced in mould on a clay medallion in bas-relief from the municipality of Calatagan. According to experts, the image in the pot strongly resembles the iconographic portrayal of Buddha in Siam, India, and Nepal. The pot shows Buddha Amithaba in the tribhanga pose inside an oval nimbus. Scholars also noted that there is a strong Mahayanic orientation in the image, since the Boddhisattva Avalokitesvara was also depicted.\n\n\nThe archipelagoes of Southeast Asia were under the influence of Hindu Tamil, Gujarati and Indonesian traders through the ports of Malay-Indonesian islands. Indian religions, possibly an syncretic version of Hindu-Buddhism, arrived in the Philippine archipelago in the 1st millennium AD, through the Indonesian kingdom of Srivijaya followed by Majapahit. Archeological evidence suggesting exchange of ancient spiritual ideas from India to the Philippines includes the 1.79 kilogram, 21 carat gold Hindu goddess of Agusan (sometimes referred to as Golden Tara), found in Mindanao in 1917 after a storm and flood exposed its location. The statue now sits in the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, and is dated from the period 13th to early 14th centuries.\n\nJuan Francisco suggests that the golden Agusan statue may be a representation of goddess Sakti of the Siva-Buddha (Bhairava) tradition found in Java, in which the religious aspect of Shiva is integrated with those found in Buddhism of Java and Sumatra.\n\nMost fables and stories in Philippine culture are linked to Indian arts, such as the story of monkey and the turtle, the race between the deer and the snail (similar to the Western story of The Tortoise and the Hare), and the hawk and the hen. Similarly, the major epics and folk literature of the Philippines show common themes, plots, climax and ideas expressed in the Mahabharata and the Ramayana.\n\nAccording to Indologists Juan R. Francisco and Josephine Acosta Pasricha, Hindu influences and folklore was firmly established in Philippines when the surviving inscriptions of about 9th to 10th century AD were discovered. The Maranao version is the \"Maharadia Lawana\" (King Rāvaṇa of Hindu Epic Ramayana). \"Lam-Ang\" is the Ilocano version and Sarimanok (akin to the Indian Garuda) is the legendary bird of the Maranao people. In addition, many verses from the \"Hud-Hud\" of the Ifugao are derived from the Indian Hindu epics Ramayana and the Mahabharata.\n\nThe Darangen or \"Singkil\" epic of the Maranao people hearten back to this era as the most compete local version of the Ramayana. Maguindanao at this time was also strongly Hindu, evidenced by the Ladya Lawana (Rajah Ravana) epic saga that survives to the modern day, as albeit highly Islamized from the 17th century onwards,\n\nThe Tigmamanukan was a blue and black bird (believed to be the Philippine Fairy Bluebird) which served as a messenger of Bathalang Maykapal, in which it was also an omen. If one encountered a Tigmamanukan while traveling, they should take note of the direction of its flight. If the bird flew to the right, the traveler would not encounter any danger during their journey. If it flew to the left, the traveler would never find their way and would be lost forever.\n\nIt traces the image of the Tikbalang back 4000 years, finding its roots in Hinduism and explains how that influence evolved into the mysterious half horse creature we know today.\n\nNatives of the ancient concept of monotheism to reduce the uncertainty of the future. This ancient belief is considered animism. They had knowledge and they thought that the world has its own consciousness. They believed that stones, trees, mountains, water, animals, sun, moon and has a hidden power quickened the spirit or 'idol'. Could be good or harm the spirit, but it is believed to control some aspects of life. \nin 1589, when the earliest days of the Spanish occupation, documented by Father Juan de Plasencia with long-term tikbalang awareness of indigenous peoples .\n\nHinduism began in 3000 BC in India and spread to Southeast Asia in 200 CE. Had developed several routes of trade and cultural influence spread throughout the region. Soon, there was some kind of Buddhism in Asia but remained Hindu influences. This happened before Islam and Christianity in the region, this might have to do with Tikbalang Hayagriva was the avatar of the Hindu god Vishnu. The worship of Hayagriva was recorded in 2000 BCE.\n\nThe images for giant flying birds, the Tikbalang, and Sirena are straight out of Hindu imagery. Influence on religion was also prevalent with the concept of a multi-layered world – Heaven and Hell. According to the Hindu Puranas, there are fourteen worlds in the universe – the seven upper and the seven lower. The seven upper worlds are Bhuh, Bhavah, Swah, Mahah, Janah. Tapah, and Satyam; and the seven nether worlds are Atala, Vitala, Sutala, Rasatala, Talatala, Mahatala, and Patala. The region known as Bhuh is the earth where we dwell.\n\nBegan its association with Tikbalang 1860 discovery of a statue to Cambodia since the 10th century. It described the demons that Vadavamuka, the more radical version of the avatar of Vishnu. Eventually, Buddhism changed the image of Hayagriva a small horse's head floated to crown fire. In China, provided the old image of Hayagriva face with horses – one of the demons keeper into the inferno. Probably has the same happened in Tikbalang adapt it to the Filipinos in their beliefs after exacting culture through trade. Nine hundred years before the Spaniards arrived, went to the Chinese merchants in the Philippines and while there they use horses. But there's just started the evolution of Tikbalang.\n\nThe Muslim Bruneian Empire, under the rule of Sultan Bolkiah (who is an ancestor of the current Sultan of Brunei, Hassanal Bolkiah), subjugated the Kingdom of Tondo in 1500. Afterwards, an alliance was formed between the newly established Kingdom of Maynila (Selurong) and the Sultanate of Brunei and the Muslim Rajah Sulaiman was installed in power. Furthermore, Sultan Bolkiah's victory over Sulu and Seludong (modern day Manila), as well as his marriages to Laila Mecanai, the daughter of Sulu Sultan Amir Ul-Ombra (an uncle of Sharifa Mahandun married to Nakhoda Angging or Maharaja Anddin of Sulu), and to the daughter of Datu Kemin, widened Brunei's influence in the Philippines.\n\nRajah Suleyman and Rajah Matanda in the south (now the Intramuros district) were installed as Muslim kings and the Buddhist-Hindu settlement was under Raja Lakandula in northern Tundun (now Tondo.) Islamization of Luzon began in the sixteenth century when traders from Brunei settled in the Manila area and married locals while maintaining kinship and trade links with Brunei and thus other Muslim centres in Southeast Asia. There is no evidence that Islam had become a major political or religious force in the region, with Father Diego de Herrera recording that inhabitants in some villages were Muslim in name only.\n\nMost records concerning pre-colonial Philippine religion can be traced back through various written accounts from Chinese, Indian and Spanish sources. \n\nThe Laguna Copperplate Inscription (LCI) is the most significant archaeological discovery in the Philippines because it serves as the first written record of the Philippine nation. The LCI mentions a debt pardon for a person, Namwaran, and his descendants by the Rajah of Tundun (now Tondo, Manila) on the fourth day after Vaisakha, in the Saka year 822, which has been estimated to correspond to April 21, 900 CE. The LCI uses the old Buddhist-Hindu lunar calendar.\n\nAntoon Postma, an anthropologist and an expert in ancient Javanese literature, has deciphered the LCI and he says it records a combination of old Kavi, Old Tagalog, and Sanskrit.\n\nThe Philippines's archaeological finds include many ancient gold artifacts. Most of them have been dated to belong to the 9th century.\n\nThe artifacts reflect the iconography of the Vajrayana Buddhism and its influences on the Philippines's early states.\n\nSome of the iconography and artifacts are exampled\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21354014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21354014", "title": "Sangat Singh Saini", "text": "Sangat Singh Saini\n\nSangat Singh Saini was a general in the army of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in the Sikh Empire. He oversaw the operations in the Gurdaspur District. His headquarters were in Batala. Sangat Singh was rewarded estate from Maharaja Ranjit Singh for bravery in battle when Sangat Singh conquered a post in the Afghan region and brought back the Golden Sword of the Afghan ruler to Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The estate is now known as Sangatpur in Batala, Gurdaspur District, India.\n"}
{"id": "39253778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39253778", "title": "Secular paganism", "text": "Secular paganism\n\nSecular paganism or humanistic paganism is a form of paganism in which deities are not accepted as real divine beings, but pagan virtues and principles are upheld.\n\nAs Europe was Christianized, the Church Fathers regularly secularized pagan deities and myths through Euhemerism, which is a practice where the deities are interpreted as historical figures who at some point had become worshipped as gods. Clement of Alexandria summarized the approach in \"Cohortatio ad gentes\", addressing the pagans: \"Those to whom you bow were once men like yourselves.\"\n\nSome adherents of modern Paganism have developed secular or humanistic approaches, where important aspects of a pagan worldview are embraced, but the gods are not accepted as real beings. These approaches take on a variety of different forms.\n\nSome pagan revivalists are inspired by Carl Jung's theories about archetypes and the collective unconscious. Jung handled esoteric and mythological subjects in a secular and scientific, yet not dismissive manner.\n\nThe biologist Andreas Weber promotes what he calls \"poetic ecology\" and \"poetic materialism\". This has been a source of inspiration for people such as Henrik Hallgren of the Swedish Forn Sed Assembly.\n\nVarg Vikernes, a musician and pagan revivalist known for his far-right views, explained his approach to paganism in a 2011 interview. Vikernes denounced theism, and instead embraced a \"modern scientific worldview resting on a foundation made up of the Pagan values and ideals: loyalty, wisdom, courage, love, discipline, honesty, intelligence, beauty, responsibility, health and strength\".\n\n\"Godless Paganism: Voices of Non-Theistic Pagans\", an American anthology edited by John Halstead, was published in 2016 and contains a number of essays on secular approaches to paganism.\n\n"}
{"id": "42036433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42036433", "title": "Shahriyar IV", "text": "Shahriyar IV\n\nShahriyar IV (), also known as Husam al-Dawla (), was the king of the Bavand dynasty of Mazandaran, ruling from 1074 to 1114.\n\nAfter having succeeded his father Qarin II in 1074, Shahriyar IV immediately moved the capital to Sari, which it would remain till 1210. A few decades later, he briefly waged a war against his overlords, the Seljuk Empire. Peace was made, and Shahriyar IV's son Qarin III married a daughter of the Seljuk Sultan Muhammad I.\n\nShahriyar IV's rule was shortly usurped by Qarin III, who, however, eventually restored him as king. Shahriyar, old and ill, spent the rest of his reign as a figurehead, whilst Qarin III was the \"de facto\" ruler of the kingdom, and finally ascended the throne after Shahriyar IV's death in 1114.\n\nShahriyar was born in 1039, and in 1074, he ascended the Bavandid throne, taking the traditional title of \"ispahbadh\" of Mazandaran. He also moved the Bavand capital to Sari. Like his father, Shahriyar IV was a vassal of the Seljuk Empire.\n\nIn 1106, the Seljuk Sultan Muhammad I conquered the Ismaili fortress of Shahdiz, and ordered Shahriyar to participate in the campaign against Ismailis. Shahriyar, greatly angered and feeling offended by the message Muhammad sent him, refused to aid him against the Ismailis. Shortly after the sultan sent an army headed by Amir Chavli into Mazandaran. Shahriyar shortly called upon the aid of his vassals, which included the Qarinvand ruler Amir Mahdi. Shahriyar was also joined by his son Qarin III. He shortly defeated the army of Amir Chavli. Muhammad then sent a letter, which requested Shahriyar to send one of his sons child to the Seljuk court in Isfahan. He sent his son Ali I, who impressed Muhammad so much that he offered him his daughter in marriage, but Ali refused and told him to grant the honor to his brother and heir of the Bavand dynasty, Qarin III. Qarin III then went to Isfahan court and married her. After his return to Sari, however, he began claiming the Bavand throne for himself, and started abusing his father Shahriyar and his servants. Shahriyar then moved to Amol and later Rudsar, where he built a Khanqah, and devoted himself to religion. However, when he got sick, Qarin III apologized and restored him as the ruler of the Bavand dynasty.\n\nQarin III's refusal to submit to the Seljuk atabeg of Ray, made the atabeg offer Ali an opportunity to conquer Mazandaran, to which he agreed. Shahriyar quickly sided with Qarin III and convinced Ali to withdraw. Nevertheless, the strife continued among the two brothers. Ali later went to Marw and joined the Seljuk prince Ahmad Sanjar, the ruler of Khorasan. Ahmad Sanjar was preparing for an expedition to the west in order to take control of Gorgan, but an attack made by Muhammad Khan on the Seljuk borders, forced Ahmad Sanjar to move east in order to repel Muhammad Khan. This allowed Qarin III to capture Gorgan while Shahriyar stayed in Tamisha. Shahriyar later fell ill and died in 1114 at Tamisha and was officially succeeded by his son Qarin III, who already held power over the Bavand kingdom, while Shahriyar was a figurehead.\n\nShahriyar IV had a least five sons;\n\n"}
{"id": "17572720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17572720", "title": "Suaire de Saint-Josse", "text": "Suaire de Saint-Josse\n\nThe Suaire de Saint-Josse, the \"Shroud of Saint Josse\" that is now conserved in the Musée du Louvre, is a rich silk samite saddle cloth that was woven in northeastern Iran, some time before 961, when Abu Mansur Bakhtegin, the \"camel-prince\" for whom it was woven, was beheaded. It was brought back from the First Crusade by Étienne de Blois and dedicated as a votive gift at the Abbey of Saint-Josse, near Caen, Normandy. It has been described as \"the major landmark in early Islamic silk weaving\".\n\nThis fragmentary textile with elephants woven into the design is the only known surviving example of a silk textile produced in Eastern Iran, in the royal workshops of the Samanid dynasty, probably at either Merv or Nishapur. The \"prince\" referred to in the woven Kufic inscription, though decipherable in more than one way, is most likely to refer to the general and emir Bukhtegin, active in the service of 'Abd al-Malik I, the Samanid sultan of Khorasan, 954-61.\n\nThe cloth is now in two fragments, which are regarded as comprising about half of the original piece. They are 52 x 94 cm and 24.5 x 62 cm respectively, the first measurement being the length. The design was somewhat like a carpet (not that any from this date survive), with a central field containing two pairs of confronted elephants, one above the other, of which one pair survive. There is then a thin border with geometric patterns, outside which the sides have friezes of repeated camels and at least the bottom (which survives) an inscription in Kufic script. In all there are five zones of border between the elephants and the edge of the cloth.\n\nLike many trophies of foreign adventure, both in the Middle Ages and in more modern times, in its new context, the rare textile was given new meaning, for it was used to wrap the bones of Saint Josse when he was reinterred in 1134.\n\nWhen the Abbey of Saint-Josse was secularised just before the French Revolution, the abbey church became the parish church of the French commune of Saint-Josse; the \"suaire\" was kept there until it was transferred to the Louvre.\n\n"}
{"id": "48731907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48731907", "title": "Teyolía", "text": "Teyolía\n\nTeyolía was an animic entity of the human being resided physically located in the heart according to the cosmovision of the ancient Aztecs and in the beliefs of some modern indigenous groups from Mexico and Central America.\n\nTogether with the \"tonalli\" and the \"ihíyotl\" was one of the three strengths that brings life and health to the humans. It was the part of the human being considered as the one that trascended to afterlife to different realms according ones way of death. After the Spanish conquest the term was assumed by Spaniard translators as equal to the word «ánima» and «alma» (soul), which have some reminiscences in current expressions among modern indigenous.\n\nThe nahuatl word \"teyolía\" incorporates the prefix «te-» and the substantive «yolía». The particle «te-» is an indefinite pronominal prefix that indicates possession, so when it is placed before a noun it can be translated as «of somebody, of another, of the people, of some». The noun «yolía» contains the root «\"yol\"» meaning «life», consequently it can be translated as «\"that what makes to live\"». All together the word teyolía might be translated as «what makes to live the people». It is related etymologically with the word «yollotl», used to describe the heart.\n\nAccording to the Aztec thought the \"teyolía\" was an animic entity that gives life to the human beings located in the heart and, therefore, inside every person's chest. Related with the half part of the cosmos. In addition to the vitality it was attributed it to be the source of knowledge, tendency, affections, passions, memory and will.\n\nThe Aztecs believed that after dead the teyolía was the part of the man that separated from the body remained immortal. The teyolía remained some days on the surface of earth be carried afterwards to one of any different destinations in which the Aztecs believed. The final destination of the teyolía was determined by every person's way of dead. The teyolía of the warriors, for example, was carried to the sun realm (\"nepantla tonatiuh\") where they turned into beautiful birds.\n\nAmong the modern indigenous peoples the term is used in some deformed ways as «yolía», «yolo», «teyolotl», «I:l», «yuhlu», «I:ll(or)»; or, by means of Spanish terms «alma», «ánima» or «espíritu».\n\n"}
{"id": "21818617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21818617", "title": "Tharpa Publications", "text": "Tharpa Publications\n\nTharpa Publications (Sanskrit for \"liberation\" and pronounced \"Tar-pa\") is \"a major international and multilingual publisher of Buddhist books\" by the Buddhist author and scholar Geshe Kelsang Gyatso. They are based in New York. These include basic Buddhist meditation books such as \"The New Meditation Handbook\", books on the Buddhist way of life such as \"Universal Compassion\", books on Buddhist philosophy and psychology such as \"Heart of Wisdom\", and books on Buddhist Tantra. Tharpa Publications is a non-profit corporation that has operated for 25 years and claims to have sold over a million books. Waterhouse adds that the books \"are distributed widely and may be seen on the shelves of popular booksellers as well as in university libraries.\"\n\nTo date, Tharpa has published 22 of his books, covering the entire range of Buddha Shakyamuni's Sutra and Tantra teachings. These are in the process of being translated into German, Spanish, French, Portuguese, Japanese, Chinese, Dutch and Croatian. According to its website, \"Tharpa publishes the works of Geshe Kelsang Gyatso, a contemporary Buddhist master who presents the essential practices of Buddhism in a way that is easy to understand and practise in modern everyday life.\" Biography Research Guide describes Kelsang Gyatso's books:\n\nA number of Kelsang Gyatso's textbooks have received favourable reviews. Bluck writes that \"The three most popular works—\"Introduction to Buddhism\", \"The New Meditation Handbook\" and \"Transform Your Life\"—have sold 165,000 copies between them, showing their appeal far beyond the movement itself.\" Batchelor says that Kelsang Gyatso's books are written with \"considerable clarity.\" Braizer echoes this sentiment, saying that Kelsang writes \"excellent\" books that are \"an important contribution to Western understanding of Buddhism and its traditions. They can stand on their own merit.\" \"Guide to Dakini Land\" and \"Essence of Vajrayana\" have been described as \"the most detailed and revealing commentary on specific tantric practices yet to be published in a Western language.\" In his book review of \"Guide to Dakini Land\", Richard Guard said:\n\nThe books are also highly thought of within the Tibetan establishment. Three of his published works contained forewords by previous Ganden Tripas and the Dalai Lama. The Dalai Lama contributed a foreword to \"Buddhism in the Tibetan Tradition\", while Trijang Rinpoche and Ling Rinpoche (who each held the position of Ganden Tripa) also provided forewords for his books \"Meaningful to Behold\" (which was dedicated to the long life of the Dalai Lama) and \"Clear Light of Bliss\" (which was dedicated to the late Trijang Rinpoche), respectively. Kyabje Ling Rinpoche refers to Kelsang Gyatso as \"this most precious Spiritual Guide,\" while Kyabje Trijang Rinpoche refers to him as \"The excellent expounder, the great Spiritual Master Kelsang Gyatso.\" Tsem Tulku praised Kelsang Gyatso and his publications: \"The great master, the Kadampa Geshe, Kelsang Gyatso, you can see very clearly his works, his centers, his books, his pure vows, and how many thousands of people he affects.\"\n\nTharpa Publications is part of the New Kadampa Tradition - International Kadampa Buddhist Union, which is an international Buddhist charity set up for building Buddhist temples for world peace in every major city of the world. It was established in 1985 in Ulverston, UK and now has affiliates in countries throughout the world.\n\nTharpa Publications is devoted to the preservation of the tradition of Je Tsongkhapa:\n\nFor example, \"Joyful Path of Good Fortune\" is based on Je Tsongkhapa's \"Lamrim Chenmo\" (\"Great Exposition of the Stages of the Path to Enlightenment\"). Other examples include:\n\n\nThe teachings in Tharpa's books are also in the Gelugpa lineage of Pabongka Rinpoche and Trijang Rinpoche's teachings. For example, \"Joyful Path of Good Fortune\" is a modern equivalent of \"Liberation in the Palm of Your Hand\", written by Je Phabongkhapa and edited by Trijang Rinpoche; and \"The New Meditation Handbook\" is a concise rendition of these teachings. In the preface of \"Joyful Path\" the author writes: \n\nWaterhouse notes that \"All pictorial material produced by the NKT is carefully controlled to maintain the accuracy in the smallest detail\":\n\nFourteen of Tharpa Publications classic textbooks are used as the basis of the New Kadampa Tradition's Foundation Program and Teacher Training Program, which have tens of thousands of Buddhist students worldwide. The Foundation Program is described by Steven Heine in \"Buddhism in the Modern World: Adaptations of an Ancient Tradition\":\n\nThe New Kadampa Tradition's Teacher Training Program is a rigorous \"multilayered educational\" study program of Buddha's teachings of Sutra and Tantra presented in accordance with the tradition of the Tibetan master Je Tsongkhapa (AD 1357-1419), designed for those training as Buddhist teachers.\n\nLosing money each year from 1985 onwards, Tharpa Publications \"broke even\" for the first time in 1996. Tharpa Publications claims that, since that time, the author has donated all royalties from Tharpa's books to non-profit organizations that promote Buddhism. Firstly he gave these to Manjushri Institute:\n\nNow Tharpa says that the author donates all royalties to the International Temples' Fund. Each book also contains the information: \"Profits received by Tharpa Publications from the sale of this book will be donated to the NKT-International Temples Project\" which is \"a Buddhist Charity, Building for World Peace.\"\n\nThe books by Kelsang Gyatso in the order they were published:\n\n\nTharpa Publications was originally a general Buddhist publishing house, also releasing the following works by other authors:\n\n\nIn addition to publishing books, Tharpa also supplies audio books, Buddhist art, and sadhanas for prayer and meditation.\n\nThe 'half-drop' repeat patterns used in some NKT-IKBU artwork as well as sadhana covers, such as the peony-style flower and emblem of Manjushri (a sword and book upon a lotus) were designed by Robert Beer.\n\nTharpa Publications also has affiliates (which are independent companies) in Brazil, the USA, Spain, Mexico, France, Canada, Australia, Hong Kong and South Africa.\n\nTharpa books have been translated into a number of European and Asian languages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57024485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57024485", "title": "The Holocaust Museum in Odessa", "text": "The Holocaust Museum in Odessa\n\nMuseum of the Holocaust – victims of fascism, Odessa (Музей \"Холокоста – жертв фашизма\", Одесса) – the first Museum in Ukraine, which is based on the events of the genocide of the Jewish population in Transnistria Governorate (the territories which were from 1941 to 1943 under jurisdiction of Romania and occupied Odessa, Nikolaev and part of Vinnytsia areas).\n\nIn 1995, the idea arose to create a museum of the Holocaust in Odessa. It was proposed by two former prisoners of the ghetto and concentration camps: President of the Association «Ukraine-Israel\", former prisoner of the concentration camp in Domanyovka Dmitry Gutakhov and former prisoner of fascism, Nilva Efim.\n\n14 years later, by the decision of the Council of Odessa regional Association of Jews—former prisoners of ghettos and nazi concentration camps (Chairman of the Association – Shvartsman Roman Markovich), 22 June 2009 the official opening of the Holocaust Museum in Odessa.\n\nOn the opening day of the Museum the head of the society \"Ukraine – Israel\" Dmitry Gutakhov, in his speech noted:\n\nThe opening date of the Museum is symbolic. Precisely in this day, 22 June 1941 Nazi Germany attacked Soviet Union.Blitzkrieg on the eastern front was not only about instant military victory, it was also (if not mostly) about genocide and war crimes. Nazi Germany wanted to kill or enslave all of the Soviet Union's population, just like they were (trying) to do in Poland since 1st September 1939. Terrible war crimes were committed by both the SS groups just like the Wehrmacht. All Slavic,Roma, Jewish (hated the most by Nazis) and other people were considered by brainwashed Germans as subhumans, hence they didn't deserve no rights and dignity. Those who couldn't work for their \"masters\" from \"master Aryan race\" (Germans) and become their slaves were supposed to be exterminated. \n\nBy decision of the Council of the Odessa Regional Association of Jews-former prisoners of the ghetto and nazi concentration camps, Sabulis Victor Franzevich was appointed the first director of the museum.\n\nOn the eve of the opening of the museum Roman Markovich Shvartsman said:\n\nInitially in two halls of the museum about one and a half thousand exhibits were exposed: photos, documents, tablets and exhibits – witnesses of that time, a kind part from which is taken from private collections of the Odessa Jews brought by former prisoners.\n\nA significant part of the exposition was transferred to the museum from Chicago (USA), now the late native of Odessa, former prisoner of the ghetto Lev Dumer.\n\nAll exhibits are genuine, dedicated to Odessa citizens – former prisoners of concentration camps and ghettos, 400 of whom were lucky enough to survive the nightmares of the Holocaust and live to this day. These are graphic images, photographs, and relics, and photo documents about the horrors experienced during the Second World War by Jewish residents of Odessa and the region. Particularly painful impression the rope with which the nazis were hanged young girl. It was given to the museum by a man who, at that time, a boy, was in love with that girl…\n\nToday, the Holocaust Museum is a two-storey complex, which houses a research library, a training center and a memorial space.\n\nInitially, the exhibition gives an overview of the Holocaust, and then focuses on the fate of the Jews of Odessa and Pridnestrovie. In addition to the permanent exhibition, the museum offers audio and video interviews, a library and a memorial room.\n\nThe permanent exhibition covers five halls of the Museum.\n\n\nThe Museum also presents traveling exhibitions, where you can see Romanian, Roma, Bulgarian Jews, former prisoners of ghettos and concentration camps.\n\nBy the 75th anniversary of the occupation of Odessa during the second world war, the Holocaust museum presented the exhibition \"Documents of the Romanian occupation of Odessa 1941–1944 from the state archives of Odessa region\".\n\nIn January 2012, the international day of commemoration in memory of the victims of the Holocaust saw the opening of an exhibition of photographs entitled \"Holocaust in granite\". The photographs presented unfailingly reveal the tragedy of the Holocaust. The exhibition is devoted to the tragic fate of the Jews of Odessa, Bessarabia and Bukovina, destroyed by the Romanian occupiers in 1941–1944 on the territory between the Southern Bug and the Dniester. Photos, which formed the basis of the exhibition, were taken from expeditions carried out in the period from 2011 to 2012. The expeditions are part of a major long-term project launched by the Odessa Holocaust Museum.\n\nIn 2017 mini-diorama \"Ghetto in Transnistria\"appeared in the museum's collection. Diorama depicts a Jewish ghetto in the Odessa settlement, which was established by the occupiers in 1942. In it almost 90 figures, the size of which is 35 times less than human growth. The author of this project was the Odessa master-modeler Evgeniy Kapuka.\n\nIn 2018 the museum presented the exhibition \"Priests and Holocaust\", dedicated to those who opposed totalitarian regimes and mass crimes in the 20th and 21st centuries.\n\nThe organizers of the museum set the main goal in the work of the museum: to collect, preserve and communicate to future generations the story of this unprecedented tragedy; to preserve the memory of those who suffered, to educate a new generation of young people who will be able to resist and prevent the emergence of fascism in the 21st century.\n\nIn his speech, Eduard Dolinsky, Director General of the Jewish Committee of Ukraine, noted:\n\nChairman of the Association of former prisoners of concentration camps and ghettos Roman Shvartsman said:\n\nToday, the Museum presents a fairly large collection of exhibits.\n\nOver the years, since its opening, the Museum has been visited by more than 20 thousand people from around the world: ambassadors, diplomats, heads of cities and regions, students and schoolchildren, and just people who remember or want to learn about the terrible tragedy that is called the Holocaust.\n\nThe author of the project of the information and historical reference book \"Geography of the Holocaust\", candidate of Philosophy, director of the Odessa Holocaust museum Pavel Efimovich Kozlenko marked:\n\nToday, the Museum has a new concept, the most convenient and understandable for visitors, created by Pavel Kozlenko, with the help of the Odessa regional Association of Jews—former prisoners of the ghetto and nazi concentration camps.\n\nThe Museum also collaborates with the Institute for the study of the Holocaust. Elie Wiesel (Romania).\n"}
{"id": "4854513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4854513", "title": "The Very Reverend", "text": "The Very Reverend\n\nThe Very Reverend is a style given to certain religious figures.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, the style is given, by custom, to priests who hold positions of particular note: e.g. vicars general, episcopal vicars, judicial vicars, ecclesiastical judges, vicars forane (deans or archpriests), provincials of religious orders, rectors or presidents of cathedrals, seminaries or colleges/universities, priors of monasteries, canons, for instance. Monsignors of the grade of Chaplain of His Holiness were formerly styled as \"The Very Reverend Monsignor\", while Honorary Prelate and Protonotary Apostolic were styled \"The Right Reverend Monsignor\". An extant example is the Very Reverend John Talamo, Jr. Fr. Talamo is both the pastor of his parish and holds an exalted position in the Archdiocese of New Orleans. Now, apart from legitimate custom or acquired right, most monsignors are simply styled \"The Reverend Monsignor\". The title is also accorded in the Dominican Order to holders of the title of Master of Sacred Theology.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox churches, the style is used for archpriests and unmarried parish priests, while married priests are typically styled \"The Reverend\".\n\nIn the Anglican Communion, the style is used with certain senior priests in a diocese. The senior priest of a cathedral, whether a dean or a provost, is usually styled as \"The Very Reverend\" regardless of whether the priest is also the rector of the cathedral parish, or whether the cathedral is a parish church. In the Episcopal Church USA, the dean of a seminary or divinity school is also styled in this form, as is the priest who is either appointed by the local bishop or elected by fellow priests as the leader of a deanery, which is a geographic subdivision of a diocese. In some Episcopal dioceses convocation is used in lieu of deanery. The deans of dioceses in the Scottish Episcopal Church (who do not head a cathedral chapter) and the Anglican Church of Canada (who do) are also styled as \"The Very Reverend\".\n\nIn some churches with a Presbyterian heritage, the style is used for former Moderators of the General Assembly, such as:\n\nBy custom, the Dean of the Chapel Royal, the Dean of the Thistle and (if a Church of Scotland minister) the Principal of St Mary's College, St Andrews, are also styled \"The Very Reverend\".\n"}
{"id": "44804719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44804719", "title": "Theosophical Society Building, Brisbane", "text": "Theosophical Society Building, Brisbane\n\nTheosophical Society Building is a heritage-listed duplex at 355 Wickham Terrace, Spring Hill, City of Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. It was built from 1863 to 1864. It is also known as Callender House. It was added to the Queensland Heritage Register on 21 October 1992.\n\nThis pair of semi-detached houses was built in late 1863 to early 1864. The building was probably erected by the first landowner Patrick Mayne (1856), or possibly for the second owner John McNab. The houses were advertised for rent on 30 January 1864, two days after registration in McNab's name, when they were described as \"newly erected ... containing five rooms and kitchen\".\n\nSubsequent owners included Joseph Buckle (1885-1910), a Primitive Methodist minister, who resided there for a period. From at least 1883 the building was known as Callender House.\n\nThe property was purchased in 1910 by Dr Espie Dods, who moved there from 97 Wickham Terrace. His architect brother Robin Dods renovated and extended the property for its use as a private house and consulting rooms. This reflected the medico-residential character of Wickham Terrace at the time.\n\nIn 1925 the property, which included adjacent land now occupied by the Liberal Catholic Church, was purchased by the Brisbane Theosophical Society. Minor alterations were carried out in 1925 by architects Hall & Prentice. Major conservation work was undertaken in 1986-87.\n\nThe building comprises a pair of 1860s two-storeyed semi-detached brick houses with a 1912 timber extension to the side and rear.\n\nThe original houses are small in scale without halls or corridors, and include attic and basement. Construction is of brick, with brick-on-edge construction on walls protected by verandahs. The main roof is gabled and clad in corrugated galvanised iron, concealing earlier shingles. The main facade has a two-storeyed timber verandah, reconstructed in 1986-87 to a 1910 photograph.\n\nThe timber extension designed by Dods added new large rooms on two levels at the rear, and a single-storeyed kitchen wing. A new porch and hall gave entrance to both consulting rooms and house. The extension is clad with weatherboards, lined with timber and roofed with corrugated galvanised iron. There is no visible evidence of earlier kitchen wings. The fence in front of the extension is by Dods. Dods' enclosure of the front verandahs does not survive.\n\nIn its present form the building clearly reveals the two major stages in its development.\n\nTheosophical Society Building was listed on the Queensland Heritage Register on 21 October 1992 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the evolution or pattern of Queensland's history.\n\nThe building is evidence of the former residential and medico-residential character of Wickham Terrace.\n\nThe place demonstrates rare, uncommon or endangered aspects of Queensland's cultural heritage.\n\nThe former Callender House is one of the few remaining 1860s buildings in Brisbane and is a rare example of semi-detached housing which was relatively common in the 1860s.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a particular class of cultural places.\n\nAs an important example of the work of the architect Robin Dods, which demonstrates his skill in adapting an older building, the former Callender House is significant.\n\nThe place has a special association with the life or work of a particular person, group or organisation of importance in Queensland's history.\n\nAs an important example of the work of the architect RS Dods, which demonstrates his skill in adapting an older building, the former Callender House is significant.\n"}
{"id": "24332421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24332421", "title": "Victor Tungilik", "text": "Victor Tungilik\n\nVictor Tungilik was an Inuit religious figure who was both a Christian and a traditional \"angakkuq\" (spiritual healer) of Anglican parents. Tungilik later eschewed his \"angakkuq\" practices and moved to Naujaat.\n"}
{"id": "39094353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39094353", "title": "Virgin of the Thirty-Three", "text": "Virgin of the Thirty-Three\n\nOur Lady of the Thirty-Three (), also known as the Liberator of Uruguay, is a title of the Virgin Mary and the Patroness of Uruguay.\n\nThis image dates from the 18th century and is of Guarani origin. It was venerated by the Thirty-Three Orientals in 1825. In 1857, one of them, General Manuel Oribe, presented a golden crown as a gift to the Virgin.\n\nIn 1962, the image was solemnly crowned by bishop . Soon afterwards, Pope John XXIII declared her patron saint of Uruguay.\n\nOn 8 September 1930, Pope Pius XI formally declared Our Lady of Lujan as the Patroness of Uruguay. The Papal document was signed by Cardinal Eugenio Pacelli, the future Pope Pius XII. \n\nThe image was consecrated by Pope John Paul II in his visit to Uruguay in 1988.\n\nThe Cathedral of Florida is the shrine where this image is venerated. Ever since the country's independence, there have been pilgrimages to it, for instance, in times of pests. The first National Pilgrimage was in 1908. A very important pilgrimage was carried out by bishop Miguel Paternain in 1945, covering almost one half of the whole country.\n\nA yearly pilgrimage is held every second Sunday of November.\n\nThe Virgin of the Thirty-Three has many churches dedicated to her:\nAnd there are also several chapels devoted to Her in all the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "37943914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37943914", "title": "Vishwa Jain Sangathan", "text": "Vishwa Jain Sangathan\n\nVishwa Jain Sangathan (VJS) is a religious and social service organization of Jains in India. Amongst other things, it was involved in the Jain minority campaign.\n\nThe organization was founded in 2005 in Delhi. It organizes various conferences that revolve around Jain community issues.\n\nThe organization has been involved in securing the status of an independent and minority religion for Jainism in India. It submitted a petition to the Delhi Government which played a part in Jains getting declared as a minority in Delhi. The organization has also presented memorandums to the Punjab Government for providing the status of a religious minority to Jains in Punjab.\n\nThe organization also stages protests and rallies to highlight their cause.\n\nVJS also actively protested the desecration of Mahavira's idol in Lucknow.\n\nThe organization has also campaigned on a number of other issues, including the \"Arihant Exports\" name issue, Qutub Minar Jain museum, January 2013 attack on Muni Prabalsagar at Girnar etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "13327188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13327188", "title": "Yasaka Kōshin-dō", "text": "Yasaka Kōshin-dō\n\n, or in its full name is a small temple located in Higashiyama, Kyoto, Japan. The temple can be found in the vicinity of Kiyomizu-dera.\n\nThe temple is dedicated to a nickname of its main worship object , a blue, guardian warrior and to the \"three wise monkeys\". They represent the Kōshin faith. \n\nIn Kōshin belief, Kōshin-san is thought to help all those who strive in their livings, with all their efforts to be good persons. He is also thought to punish the bad.\n\n\"Kukurizaru\" is the round, ball shaped talisman made of cloth, representing the good faith monkeys.\n\nIn many places at the temple hang color balls representing Kukurizaru, a monkey with bound feet and hands. In Kōshin belief, it represents the control of the playful and desire-driven creature everyone has inside his body.\n\nThe folk faith says that to have a wish granted, you must sacrifice one desire. If you put your desire inside one of the color balls that represent the monkey Kukurizaru, Kōshin will help you to make that desire vanish and because desires are what keep wishes from coming true, your wish will be granted and you will also become a better person.\n\nIt is also said that when you feel a desire coming you must put your hands together and recite the Buddhist sutra: \"On deiba yakisya banta banta kakakaka sowaka\". Kukurizaru and Kōshin-san will hear and will come to help you.\n\nThere are old traditions and beliefs regarding monkeys in Japan. Monkeys are considered kind spirits protecting us and our homes from evil spirits and harmful intentions. The three monkeys in the attitude of \"not hearing, not seeing, not talking\" are a part of the Kōshin faith.\n\n\n"}
