{"id": "28745179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28745179", "title": "AI Challenge", "text": "AI Challenge\n\nThe AI Challenge was an international artificial intelligence programming contest started by the University of Waterloo Computer Science Club.\n\nInitially the contest was for University of Waterloo students only. In 2010, the contest gained sponsorship from Google and allowed it to extend to international students and the general public.\n\nEach participant wrote a self-contained computer program to play a game versus an opponent, and then uploaded the source code to a server. The contest engine used the Trueskill ranking algorithm for matchmaking and to generate the rankings.\n\nAfter a match, spectators could watch the match using a browser.\n\nThe contest was open source. Contestants were welcomed to improve the contest back-end.\n\n"}
{"id": "12832387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12832387", "title": "Aaron McCollough", "text": "Aaron McCollough\n\nAaron McCollough is an American poet.\n\nAaron McCollough was born in 1971 in Columbus, Ohio and raised in Tennessee. He has a BA from the University of the South (1994), an MA in English Literature from North Carolina State University (1998), an MFA in Creative Writing from the Iowa Writers' Workshop (2001), as well as an MA and PhD in English Language and Literature from the University of Michigan (2002 & 2007 respectively). Having worked at the University of Michigan Library and University of Michigan Press for a number of years, he began as Scholarly Communications & Publishing Librarian at the University of Illinois in August 2015.\n\nIn 2001, McCollough started the online poetry magazine GutGult. The magazine published eight issues between 2001 and 2010. Along with Karla Kelsey, he now edits a small press called SplitLevel Texts.\n\n\n\nMcCollough has published poems in 1913, 6 x 6, Boston Review, jubilat, A Public Space, Denver Quarterly, Colorado Review, Fence, Quarterly West, The Canary, VOLT, American Letters & Commentary, Conduit, LIT, Slope, Carolina Quarterly, Jacket, Court Green, and numerous other journals.\n\nMcCollough's books have been reviewed in print journals including Denver Quarterly, Colorado Review, and Publisher's Weekly as well as in online journals such as Free Verse, Coldfront, NewPages and Eclectica.\n\n\nMcCollough has taught at North Carolina State University, The University of Iowa, and The University of Michigan. He was a visiting poet at Hendrix College.\n\n"}
{"id": "5831758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5831758", "title": "American Council of Teachers of Russian", "text": "American Council of Teachers of Russian\n\nAmerican Council of Teachers of Russian (ACTR) is a professional organization that advances research, training, and materials development in the fields of Russian and English language; strengthens communication within and between communities of scholars and educators in language, literature, and area studies in the United States and the countries of eastern Europe, Russia and Eurasia; and furthers educational reform through training, institution building, and technical assistance. It was founded in 1974.\n\nThe current president of ACTR is Thomas Garza.\n\nIn the mid-1980s with the gradual opening of Soviet society, the ACTR board established The American Council for Collaboration in Education and Language Study (ACCELS). ACCELS undertook the administration of U.S. government-funded exchanges for a variety of audiences, including high school and undergraduate students, teachers, professionals, and academics.\n\nIn 1998, ACTR and ACCELS united to one organization. Now ACTR and ACCELS continue as divisions of American Councils for International Education. ACTR is the professional association and the focus of educational, training, and research programs for U.S. citizens; ACCELS administers exchange, training, and technical assistance programs with the countries of eastern Europe, Russia, and Eurasia.\n\nACTR is also a member organization of the International Association of Teachers of Russian Language and Literature (MAPRYAL).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25984919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25984919", "title": "American Society of Tax Problem Solvers", "text": "American Society of Tax Problem Solvers\n\nThe American Society of Tax Problem Solvers (ASTPS) is a non-profit organization located in Williamsville, New York with a membership of tax professionals in the United States. The organization offers training and accreditation to tax and legal professionals. Any tax professional can join ASTPS. Full membership, however, is open only for persons licensed as Certified Public Accountants (CPAs), lawyers, or enrolled agents (EAs). \n\nASTPS directs the Certified Tax Resolution Specialist (CTRS) examination and certification.\n\nASTPS educates lawyers, CPAs, EAs, and other tax preparers on solving tax problems. Seminars and lessons plans are offered, online and live. Non-members may also use these resources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24558228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24558228", "title": "Azerbaijan State Marine Academy", "text": "Azerbaijan State Marine Academy\n\nAzerbaijan State Marine Academy (ASMA) () is a public university located in Baku, Azerbaijan.\n\nThe marine education in Azerbaijan ordinates since November, 1881.\nIn documentary materials of the central Government historical archives of the Azerbaijan Republic there is a report of the Head Department of the Caucasus Region about the opening of the Marine class in Baku on the 21 st (8) of November, 1881.\nThe basic quota of the Baku Marine classes consist of the adult seamen – probationers. The academic year lasted from November 1 till April 1 (period of closing of navigation to Astrakhan, when the basic steam fleet and part of sailing fleet stood on wintering in the Baku port). Every year 25-30 navigators\n15-18 skippers graduated from Marine Classes.\nIn 1896 at marine classes the courses of the steamship mechanics (subsequently – school of marine engineers ) were open.\nMany of seamen- probationers have received marine education in marine classes.\nThe Baku marine classes since July 1, 1902 were reformed into the Baku school of seagoing navigation of the 3 year education. Simultaneously at a school the preparatory marine school was organized.\nSince October 1, 1921 at the Baku technical school of water transport the evening classes was organized and the workers’ technical school of water transport being discontinued was opened.\nAccording to the order of the Central Department of Marine Transport of People’s Committee of Communication since October 1, 1924 the Baku technical school the Azerbaijan sector was opened for the first time.\nIn March, 1930 the government accepted the decision on reorganization of all industrial technical schools by a branch principle and since September 1, 1930 the Baku Technical School of Waterways Communication was reorganized in Baku Marine Technical School, and in March, 1994 in the Baku Marine College.\nOn the basis of the Baku Marine College by the task of Great Leader Haydar Aliyev, by the decision of Cabinet of Ministers of the Azerbaijan Republic № 91, dated July 15, 1996 the Azerbaijan State Marine Academy (ASMA) was created.\nHaving been the new direction of education it became the only higher school which trains the qualified seamen to work on merchant ships.\n\nAt present there are 12 departments at the Academy:\n\n\n86 professor-teacher staff work in these departments, including 1 academician, 9 doctors of sciences, professors, 20 candidates of science, senior lecturers, 29 senior teachers and 21 assistants.\n\nThe specialists are trained on the following specialties at the “Marine Engineering and Shipping” faculty on bachelor and head of master's degrees:\n\nAs a continuation of the great Leader H. Aliyev’s policy to recognize Azerbaijan all over the world, Azerbaijan State Marine Academy was admitted into the International Marine Organization in July, 1995 and adopted all the conventions of this organization. After joining the convention, Azerbaijan State Marine Academy established its training according to requirements of IMO STSW-78 Convention. For this purpose base educational programmes, training plans, state educational standards were drawn up on all the specialties and were adopted by IMO.\n\nAzerbaijan State Marine Academy was included into the catalogue of the IMO Marine Educational Establishments, under No.012.\nAt present the diplomas and certificates of the Academy are recognized by international level.\n\nAnother direction of academy’s activity is in the branch of trade improvement of personnel.\nFor this purpose the “Training and Certifying Centre of Seafarers” was created by the resolution of Cabinet of Ministers, dated May 8, 2000. In this centre the various courses act.\n“Training of Crew”, “Fire-fighting”, “First Medical Aid”, “Fight with Flooding” and so on laboratories and specialized lecture-rooms are created.\n“Training Department for the Raitings” acts at the Academy. The personnel is trained here according to requirements ofmarine establishments. At the academy the training process for all the specialties in all stages is established. In October, 2002 Academy was awarded a certificate according to International Standards ISO 9001:2000 on quality management system in the field of training of seafarers and since February 1, 2010 quality management system ISO 9001:2008 is used at the Academy.\n\nAcademy collaborates with the higher Marine establishments of countries of UNC and other foreign countries. Academy is the member of educational-methodical council of the higher Marine establishments of UN countries which acts at the St. Petersburg Higher Marine Academy after A. Makarov. Education system develops in our country day by day by the attention and care of the President Ilham Aliyev who have said: “Education is one of the first directions of the continuous development strategy of Azerbaijan”\nNew built schools, improvement of material-technical resources of higher educational establishments, made reforms causing the quality changes in the education open the unprecedented space for development of science and education.\nHaving been the only educational establishment in the region according to its profile Azerbaijan State Marine Academy also feels this care and attention. During the activity of the academy, it obtained much success either in training or scientific researches. Caspian shipping fleet having been replenished with new and modern ships the training process of the academy is supplied with new simulators and laboratory net broadened.\n\nTo train the skilled seamen for operating the ships having the modern automated operational system, the new speciality “ Ship’s Automation and Electro-Power Systems” is opened on the basis of final scientific achievements of the Academy. “Training –industrial laboratory of ship’s automation” was created for this specialty. To meet the world’s standard requirements the modern equipment and simulators are continuously equipped in the Academy.The last three years “Engine-room simulator ERS-4000” ; “NT-4000” ; “TQS” and “NS-3000” simulators, meeting the requirements of International Convention, section B-1/12, were get and put into use. At the same time “Radar”, “Navigation”, “Electron chart plotting”, “GMDSS simulators” and afloat landing, stage training centre, 3000ton tonnage “Rasul Rza” training vessel used by the students of the Academy gives important opportunity to train seamen staff meeting the requirements of the higher world’s standards.\nThe process of training improvement, the process of its contact with science and industry is always at the centre of attention.There are 4 scientific-research laboratories at the Academy.\nAt present 700 students study at the Academy side by side with the training they take part in the work of departments’ scientific-research laboratories.\nStudent’s Scientific Society, Student-Youth Society, Trade-Union Organization, Women’s Society work at the Academy and they continue their work at the up-to-date requirements’ level.\nScientific-technical and scientific-methodical conferences devoted to the discussion of carried-out scientific –research works at the Academy are held each year. Republic significance scientific technical conferences devoted to the “Problems of Water Transportations” were held at the Academy in 2005-2006.\n\nScientific-research works on 9 themes, and 2 themes on scientific-methodical works are taken into consideration to carry out at the Academy in 2008-2012 and these works are carried out successfully. At present 52 employees carry out scientific-research and scientific-methodical works.\nThe last 2 years more than 125 scientific articles and thesises, 15 books including 2 monographs, 7 text-books, 6 manuals, 12 methodical manuals and programmes on 20 subjects of the Academy were printed.\nSince 2003 collection of “Scientific Works of the Azerbaijan State Marine Academy” is issued. Since 2007 this collection is included into consulted collection list of Higher Attestation Commission of the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan for printing of scientific works.\n11 candidates for a degree continue their research on their scientific themes. These years 3 employees of the academy having defend their dissertation have got the degree of Doctor of Sciences; at present 4 Doctors of Philosophy 3 candidates for a degree have finished their work on dissertation and are ready to defend a thesis.\n2 employees of the Academy have completed the advanced courses in England, 5 employees in Russian Federation, 3 in Cyprus and received corresponding certificates. The senior-lecturer, chief of the “Ship’s Electrical Equipment and Automation” department Hamlet Mehdiyev was awarded with “Honorary Teacher” title by the decree of the Dear President Ilham Aliyev in 2008.\nFor the effective activity of the professor-teacher and student staff a very good condition is created at the Academy. There are computer centre, polyclinics, mess-room, comfortable students’ hostel in the centre of the city at their disposal. There is a scientific-technical library which gathered nearly 80.000 text-books and manuals on marine specialty, scientific and belleslettres at the Academy. This literature has a great importance in the formation of students’ world outlook and education in the spirit of patriotism.\n\nThe students take part in matches on sailing boat, football, wrestling, chess. Great result have been get in the sailing boat matches.\n"}
{"id": "3746004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3746004", "title": "Bettina Arndt", "text": "Bettina Arndt\n\nBettina Arndt (born 1 August 1949) is an Australian sex therapist, journalist, author and clinical psychologist.\n\nArndt was born in Penrith, England, to the economist Heinz Arndt (1915 – 6 May 2002) and Ruth (\"née\" Strohsahl) (20 March 1915 – 20 March 2001), the youngest of three children (brothers Christopher and Nicholas).\n\nIn 1971, after completing a Bachelor of Science degree at Australian National University, Arndt moved to Sydney where she trained as a clinical psychologist specialising in sexual therapy. In 1973, she completed her Master of Psychology degree at the University of New South Wales, where her thesis was on orgasm problems.\n\nArndt came to prominence in the 1970s by editing \"Forum\", an Australian adult sex education magazine, which led to frequent radio and television appearances. She was appointed editor in 1974 and remained in the position until July 1982. Her work in sex education also involved post-graduate courses, seminars and lectures for groups including doctors and other professionals. Following the death of her husband and business partner, Dennis Minogue, in 1981, \"Forum\" magazine closed. Arndt moved on to writing about broader social issues for newspapers including \"The Australian\", \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" and \"The Age\". During this period Arndt also had her own radio program on 2GB and regular radio segments in major cities all over Australia.\n\nIn 1986, Arndt married the American lawyer Warren Scott and moved to New York City. She lived in Manhattan for five years, and while living in the United States wrote a weekly newspaper column syndicated through \"The Age\" in Melbourne (and published in Canberra, Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane). She had two books published featuring collections of her writings, \"Private Lives\" (1985) and \"All About Us\" (1989). In August 1991, Arndt returned with her family to live in Australia.\n\nIn 2007, the Australian television programme \"Media Watch\" broadcast allegations of plagiarism by Arndt, allegations that were not disputed.\n\n\"The Sex Diaries\", based on the diaries of 98 couples talking about how they negotiate sex and deal with mismatched desire, was published in 2009, followed by \"What Men Want\", another diary project published in September 2010.\n\nArndt has served on a number of committees advising the Australian government on policy matters, including the Family Law Pathways Advisory Group, the National Advisory Committee on Ageing, the Assisted Reproductive Technologies Review Team and the Child Support Review Reference Group.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55026734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55026734", "title": "Bhabon Dutt Gono High School", "text": "Bhabon Dutt Gono High School\n\nBhabon Dutt Gono High School is a school in Ghatail Upazila of Tangail district, Bangladesh.\n\nThe school was founded in 1969, the foundation stone laid by the M.P. Mahodaya Mr. M. Shamsur Rahman Khan.\n"}
{"id": "15098799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15098799", "title": "Build Bright University", "text": "Build Bright University\n\nBuild Bright University may refer to some seven different universities and nine campuses in Cambodia:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28752682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28752682", "title": "ChloroFilms", "text": "ChloroFilms\n\nStarted in 2008, ChloroFilms was organized as an international competition to promote the creation and use of attention-getting videos about the life and inner workings of plants and their unique abilities. The short videos are hosted on YouTube and assessed by a panel of judges from around the world. With funding and support from three plant biology organizations, ChloroFilms awarded over $13,000 in cash prizes in 2009 and 2010. The grand prize winner in 2009 was a 6-min video entitled \"Fertile Eyes\" which graphically and humorously compares human and plant sexuality in a captivating way. A first prize went to Kris Holmes for her flower-power animation \"LaBloomba\". Grand prize winners in 2010 include \"Arabidopsis flower in 3D\", which takes the viewer inside a plant and a flower bud using thin (microscopic) sections combined with video processing software, and \"Kenaf Callus Hoedown\", which uses lively fiddle music and stop motion film techniques to show the steps used in plant tissue culture. Other award-winning videos include a humorous animation of vesicle trafficking inside cells, the ecology of forests, a song about the Golgi apparatus, and more than 40 additional videos from around the world, illustrating aspects of plant life. A fourth contest is scheduled for fall 2010.\n\nSponsors of ChloroFilms include the Education Foundation of the American Society of Plant Biologists, the Botanical Society of America, the Canadian Botanical Association, and Penn State University Institutes for Energy and the Environment.\n"}
{"id": "43742863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43742863", "title": "Cornelia De Bey", "text": "Cornelia De Bey\n\nDr. Cornelia De Bey (May 26, 1865 - April 3, 1948) was a Progressive Era reformer, homeopathic doctor, Chicago public school administrator, labor advocate, and leader in the women's suffrage movement. She worked with the famous Hull House community of social reformers, including Jane Addams, Julia Lathrop, Alice De Wolf Kellogg, and Ellen Gates Starr. She advocated for major school administration reform, exposing corruption, advocating for more democratic decision-making, and defending the unionization of teachers.\n"}
{"id": "191228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191228", "title": "Decision Earth", "text": "Decision Earth\n\nDecision Earth, also referred to as Decision: Earth, was an environmental education teachers resource for junior high school students issued by Procter & Gamble in 1997. It has been controversial.\n\nIts asserted aim was assisting students to make informed consumer product choices, and to educate then in the environmental impact of their choices:\n\nThe unit focuses on the concept of consumer product life cycle analysis, an approach to assessing the environmental impacts of a product at each stage in its life from raw materials extraction through disposal. Using this approach, a product is evaluated in terms of energy consumed, atmospheric and waterborne emissions generated and solid waste created for disposal.\n\nProcter & Gamble have claimed the package builds critical thinking skills\n\nIt has been asserted that \"Decision Earth\" included a series of controversial claims about waste disposal, mining and forestry issues which was distributed by the Procter & Gamble corporation to roughly 75,000 schools in the United States.\nProcter and Gamble argued in its package that disposable diapers are no worse for the environment than cloth diapers, a claim based on scientific studies funded by the company, which is the world's largest manufacturer of disposable diapers. The package described garbage-fueled incineration processes where energy is recovered as \"thermal recycling\" without mentioning the toxic ash or emissions that result.\n\nThe materials given to teachers and studends include overhead transparency masters, student worksheets, and a teacher's guide.\n\n"}
{"id": "19050247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19050247", "title": "Democracy and Education", "text": "Democracy and Education\n\nDemocracy and Education: An Introduction to the Philosophy of Education is a 1916 book by John Dewey.\n\nFor Dewey, this distinction was largely a false one; like George Herbert Mead and Lev Vygotsky, he viewed the mind and its formation as a communal process. Thus the individual is a meaningful concept only when regarded as an inextricable part of his or her society, and the society has no meaning apart from its realization in the lives of its individual members. As evidenced in his later \"Experience and Nature\" (1925), this practical element, learning by doing, arose from his subscription to the philosophical school of Pragmatism.\n\nIn \"Democracy and Education\", Dewey argues that the primary ineluctable facts of the birth and death of each one of the constituent members in a social group determine the necessity of education. On one hand, there is the contrast between the immaturity of the new-born members of the group (its future sole representatives) and the maturity of the adult members who possess the knowledge and customs of the group. On the other hand, there is the necessity that these immature members be not merely physically preserved in adequate numbers, but that they be initiated into the interests, purposes, information, skill, and practices of the mature members: otherwise the group will cease its characteristic life.\n\nDewey observes that even in a \"savage\" tribe, the achievements of adults are far beyond what the immature members would be capable of if left to themselves. With the growth of civilization, the gap between the original capacities of the immature and the standards and customs of the elders increases. Mere physical growing up and mastery of the bare necessities of subsistence will not suffice to reproduce the life of the group. Deliberate effort and the taking of thoughtful pains are required. Beings who are born not only unaware of, but quite indifferent to, the aims and habits of the social group have to be rendered cognizant of them and actively interested. According to Dewey, education, and education alone, spans the gap.\n\nDewey's ideas were never broadly and deeply integrated into the practices of American public schools, though some of his values and terms were widespread. Progressive education (both as espoused by Dewey, and in the more popular and inept forms of which Dewey was critical) was essentially scrapped during the Cold War, when the dominant concern in education was creating and sustaining a scientific and technological elite for military purposes. In the post-Cold War period, however, progressive education had reemerged in many school reform and education theory circles as a thriving field of inquiry learning and inquiry-based science.\n\nSome find it cumbersome that Dewey's philosophical anthropology, unlike Egan, Vico, Ernst Cassirer, Claude Lévi-Strauss, and Nietzsche, does not account for the origin of thought of the modern mind in the aesthetic, more precisely the myth, but instead in the original occupations and industries of ancient people, and eventually in the history of science. A criticism of this approach is that it does not account for the origin of\ncultural institutions, which can be accounted for by the aesthetic. Language and its development, in Dewey's philosophical anthropology, have not a central role but are instead a consequence of the cognitive capacity.\n\nWhile Dewey's educational theories have enjoyed a broad popularity during his lifetime and after, they have a troubled history of implementation. Dewey's writings can also be difficult to read, and his tendency to reuse commonplace words and phrases to express extremely complex reinterpretations of them makes him susceptible to misunderstanding. So while he held the role of a leading public intellectual, he was often misinterpreted, even by fellow academics. Many enthusiastically embraced what they mistook for Dewey's philosophy, but which in fact bore little or a distorted resemblance to it.\n\nSimultaneously, other progressive educational theories, often influenced by Dewey but not directly derived from him, were also becoming popular, such as Educational perennialism which is teacher-centered as opposed to student-centered. The term 'progressive education' grew to encompass numerous contradictory theories and practices, as documented by historians like Herbert Kliebard.\n\nSeveral versions of progressive education succeeded in transforming the educational landscape: the utter ubiquity of guidance counseling, to name but one example, springs from the progressive period. Radical variations of educational progressivism were troubled and short-lived, a fact that supports some understandings of the notion of failure. But they were perhaps too rare and ill-funded to constitute a thorough test.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51575067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51575067", "title": "District Level Examination", "text": "District Level Examination\n\nThe District Level Examination (DLE) (), also known as the Basic Level Final Exam(BLE), is taken in grade 8 in Nepal. The examination is coordinated by the coutry's district education offices.\n\nCompulsory subjects are:\n\nOptional subjects are: \n\n"}
{"id": "18092256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18092256", "title": "Education in the Bahamas", "text": "Education in the Bahamas\n\nEducation in the Bahamas is compulsory between the ages of 5 and 16. As of 2003, the school attendance rate was 92% and the literacy rate was 95.5%. The government fully operates 158 of the 210 primary and secondary schools in The Bahamas. The other 52 schools are privately operated. Enrollment for state primary and secondary schools is 50,332, with more than 16,000 students attending private schools. Some public schools lack basic educational materials and are overcrowded. The Bahamas Union of Teachers (BUT) were the ones who acted to create some reform for their weakening education systems. The island has an Education Act that was revised in 1996 and is under control of the Prime Minister. As of 1996, the Education Act states that education is free for children between the ages of 5 and 16. The College of the Bahamas, established in Nassau in 1974, provides programs leading to bachelors and associate degrees. Several non-Bahamian colleges also offer higher education programs in The Bahamas. Generally, the academic year in The Bahamas goes from late August or early September to late May or early June for primary and secondary schools and late April/early May for college.\n\nThe Bahamas education includes primary education, secondary education, tertiary education, with a more recent addition of preschool institutions before those three stages. All education that is given to the students in the Bahamas along with their policies are made by the Ministry of Education, Sports and Culture.\n\nThe Ministry of Education is led by the Minister of Education and a few other council members that are in charge of various tasks for the education system as a whole. The Minister of Education strictly handles policies and guidelines that have to do with private and public schools. The Permanent Secretary is assistant to the Minister of Education in organization and administering the tasks of The Ministry of Education. The individual who is in charge of the Department of Education is the Director of Education and also education officer of the Minister of Education. The actual Department of Education deals with tasks being given out to schools and the guidelines their systems need to follow.\n\nAs of today, it is required that all children from the ages 5 to 16 years old are to be signed up for some sort of educational facility. Despite private education, public education is free to all people who wish to enroll. There are no racial, gender, or economic background limitations when it comes to who receives education as well. In 2007, about 66,000 students were in enrolled in some kind of institution that is public. Over half of that number are already in their primary education stage.\n\nCenters for children who fell in the early childhood category didn't have access to the education they do now. The government of the Bahamas assisted in implementing preschool centers for children under the age of 5. They also took action to make daycare centers and private preschools for the significant number of children who were in need of it. The importance of the expansion of preschools was based on the fact that children needed to be more equipped when entering first grade. Most of them don't have the fundamental skills but some of them do that would allow them to comprehend what is going on in that next level.\n\nIn order to guarantee success in the preschools, it was necessary for the government to establish the Preschool and Daycare Centre Council. They oversee all systems and functions that take place in the daycares and private preschools across the country. 64 preschools that are stand alone or a preschool unit, an addition to a primary school, reside all across the Bahamas today.\n\nEvery couple of years the Council re-evaluates the curriculum of these preschools to stay updated with the changing world around them. Their curriculum is the standard reading, writing, and numeracy, but the Council continues to strive to bring technology in the mix. Technology makes up most of the workforce that they will eventually enter into, so it is crucial for them to be ready for when they use it in their primary and secondary schools.\n\nWith the number of children living in urban areas of the Bahamas rising, it was about time for primary schools to make an appearance. Primary Education begins at age 5 and lasts for six years. Most students speak English by this point in their studies, but there are occasions where a child is still coming to understand English as their second language. The primary schools heavily reinforce English as their second language so from that point on, there is a commonality among all the students. As a result, primary school teachers are taught the mechanisms used to teach the students English in addition to their regular everyday studies. Those include: math, science, language arts, reading, etc.\n\nAt this stage, educators are guiding the students to become problem-solvers and make connections from the curriculum to real life.\n\nSecondary Education is a total of three years, but is divided into two equal parts of the time they spend there. The first half, considered junior high, accommodates students from ages eleven to fourteen. The second half of those three years, considered senior high, accommodates ages fourteen to seventeen. The reason for this split is merely because the schools don't want any bullying taking place on the younger students and, in turn, affecting their focus on their schoolwork.\n\nThe secondary education curriculum was designed to expose the students to cultural subjects as well as vocational and technical subjects. The hope is the students will be presented opportunities that integrate them socially and culturally to fully comprehend life out of the institution.\n\nBy the end of grade nine, students are administered a Bahamas Junior Certificate examination that they must pass this exam in order to move onto their next level. The Bahamas General Certificate of Secondary Education is given to students as an exit exam at the end of grade 12. It is expected that students make it all the way to grade 12 once they enrol in the first grade. Most students complete secondary school with no problem, but it is up to them if they wish to pursue a post-secondary school institution.\n\nThere are a number of small-scale community colleges across the country that are open to any student looking to further their post-secondary education. As expected, there is an application process that students must complete before being accepted.\n\nIn 1974, one of the larger colleges within the Bahamas opened its doors with offerings of associate degrees, certificates, and diplomas. The College of the Bahamas was an equivalent of a state school in terms of how prestigious it was. As time went on, the Bahamas realized that in order for them to keep up with the competitive edge of universities, they would have to expand their programs. Various bachelor's degrees were added in fields of Nursing, Business, and Education around the early 1990s which accelerated their program developments.\n\nThe College Council continued to grow their institution by adding various buildings to provide educational environments for the different career fields. All of the expanding they were doing was what set off the idea of creating an upgraded College of the Bahamas: University of the Bahamas. A committee was created to handle all of the planning that would go into the future University and by August 2006 a plan was finalized. The transition was one that took time, but by August 2016 the President of the University's academic committee, Jerome Fitzgerald, announced that the College of the Bahamas was officially the University of the Bahamas.\n\nThe University expresses that its mission is to promote a higher education for their students that will benefit them in all aspects of their careers. University of the Bahamas strives to build the commonwealth of their country, so it is more than worth it to them to have built something as large-scale as the new institution.\n\nTo increase rehabilitation rates in the Bahamas, there was an education program introduced to help the imprisoned become better prepared for release and integration into society. The World Declaration on Education for All organization works to reduce illiteracy among adults and has been an active advocator for bettering the education system in prisons in the Caribbean. The goal pf the World Declaration on Education for All was to educate all people through growth and development of any and all education programs in place at different correctional facilities. The organization focused on the skills inmates had and worked to further develop them and introduce new skills that would be necessary to education and release. They worked with other countries and organizations to educate many people across the world. It was in the 1990s, the Minister of Education of the Bahamas reviewed the EFA guidelines and initiated a 5-year program to better the education system in the prisons in the Bahamas. There were 6 formal programs directly linked to education and 3 informal programs indirectly linked to providing a better education to inmates. Providing inmates with education, enables them to find job opportunities and increases the chances of successfully becoming a part of society. Reintegration is an important part of being released from prison. It is when officers try to aid inmates with necessary information and tools to successfully rejoin society and return to the life you may have had before imprisoned. The program focused on individuals between the ages of 16 and 24.\n\nThe Bahama's education system does all it can to make sure that all of their students receive some form of access to education whenever possible. They have a Special Services Division who recognizes the needs of the disabled students and creates an environment where they can thrive in. Special Education schools, located on New Providence and Grand Bahamas, provide this type of environment as they are strictly for children with mental and physical limitations.\n\nOn the other hand, not all handicapped students are recommended to go to these schools. Students who are autistic or even hearing impaired are encouraged to attend the public schools because educators want a blended environment with no child being left out. Additionally, the students will receive realistic scenarios because they weren't sheltered from other people. Teachers are well-equipped with various counseling, guidance, and psychology tools to refine the learning material in the classrooms.\n\nThe Bahamas have come a long way since the 1950s with their education systems. Although students were still able to learn, they had difficulty thriving in the classroom due to the lack of updated materials provided by the schools. They used what resembles a white board to take all their notes on instead of a journal or workbook for each of their classes. This system proved to not be efficient because students were struggling when it came time to learning handfuls of material without proper storage for their notes.\n\nOne educator at a technical college in the Bahamas discusses how although the teachers have access to technology such as smart boards or computers, the students do not. Education is becoming more technology-based and younger teachers that are coming into the education workforce are equipped to teach with such technology, but with students having a lack of knowledge about the advances, the teachers can't do this.\n\nAnother instructor at a local college argues that the government will see a positive outcome if their students were able to take advantage of online learning. Most students spend a majority of their time online outside of class, so it is likely that they would be more inclined to participate in class projects. The future is projected to be very dependent on technology and the students will gather the tools they need once they are more exposed to how it works.\n\nThere have been attempts to try to fix this issue with the education system, but there have been many bumps in the road. Institutions have come across a lack of funding when trying to teach the instructors the process of actually demonstrating to the students how to use the online programs. Not to mention, teachers weren't expecting all the overtime hours they would have to put in when learning the online programs in addition to teaching their regular classroom hours. Many of them opted out of learning the programs which leaves a huge disconnect if all the teachers aren't interested in participating.\n\nMost recently, the Bahamas government has discussed the importance of technology, especially when students enter the workforce. For example, if a student enters the medical field, it is possible they will need to be educated on how to use certain equipment or technology that their job may require. The government recognizes this concern, but has yet to make any big moves about requiring technology in the classrooms. Some families have computers in their homes while others can't afford the luxury. The goal of the future Bahamas is to make technology accessible to all through whatever means it takes to get them there.\n\nLyds dudda (2017). Education in Lyds World. \"Education\". Doi: 463488538248re\n"}
{"id": "30243180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30243180", "title": "Eleni Lambiri", "text": "Eleni Lambiri\n\nEleni Lambiri (9 February 1889 – 30 March 1960) was a Greek conductor and composer.\n\nEleni Lambiri was born in Athens, daughter of the composer Georgios Lambiris and granddaudhter of the poet Andreas Laskaratos. She studied composition with Edoardo Sacredote at the Athens Conservatory (from 1907 to 1908). In fact she was the first woman who studied composition at the Athens Conservatory, for this reason she gained the title of the first Greek woman composer. Subsequently, she studied composition with Max Reger and conducting with Hans Scheidt in the Royal Conservatory of Leipzig (from 1 October 1908 to 27 July 1911). She graduated from the Royal Conservatory of Leipzig in 1911. In 1913 the operetta «To apokriatiko oneiro» (A dream in carnival), with text of Gregorios Xenopoulos and composition of Eleni Lambiri, was performed at the Panellinion Τheatre.\n\nAfter completing her studies, she worked in Milan as a conductor. On 15 January 1915 she registered the author's rights of the opereta «Isolma», at the Milan regional registry (number of registry 64794). «Isolma» was an operetta in three acts fully composed and written by Eleni Lambiri. This opereta has been recorded in 1958, by Totis Karalivanos as conductor and Spiros Kapsaskis as choir director. In about 1925 she returned to Patras, Greece, where she worked as director of the Patras Conservatory until 1953. At the same time she wrote the music criticism for the local newspaper of Patras «Neologos Patron». She died at the Municipal Hospital of Athens.\n\nSelected works include:\n"}
{"id": "14935815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14935815", "title": "George Ensor", "text": "George Ensor\n\nGeorge Ensor J.P. (17 December 1769 – 3 December 1843) was an eminent Irish author and lawyer.\n\nEnsor was born in Ardress, County Armagh and lived in Ardress house, Ireland and educated at the Royal School, Armagh followed by Trinity College Dublin. He was called to the Irish Bar in 1792. He married Esther Weld (sister of famous Irish explorer, author and painter Isaac Weld) on 7 January 1804. His father, George Ensor, and uncle, John Ensor, were architects who designed much of Merrion Square, Parnell Square, the Rotunda of the Rotunda Hospital, now the Ambassador Theatre (Dublin), the Hotel Saint George and the Castle Hotel - all in Dublin. They originated from Coventry and Wilnecote, England. George (Senior) was the first of the 'Irish' Ensors and John the first of the Rollesby Hall/New Zealand Ensors.\n\nHe was a well-known political writer and patriot, author of at least twenty books of educational and Irish interest, and the father-in-law of J. P. Prendergast the historian. He was a friend of Daniel O'Connell, Jeremy Bentham and James Mill. He accompanied John Stuart Mill (aged 14) to France in 1820. Was a grand juror and High Sheriff (1806) of County Armagh and died on 3 December 1843 at the family home, Ardress House, now property of the National Trust.\n\n\nOxford Biography Index entry\nGeorge Ensor\n\nEnsor, George (1769-1843), political writer \nOxford Biography Index Number 101008822\n\n"}
{"id": "4385743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4385743", "title": "Group cognition", "text": "Group cognition\n\nGroup cognition is a social, largely linguistic phenomenon whereby a group of people produce a sequence of utterances that performs a cognitive act. That is, if a similar sequence was uttered or thought by an individual it would be considered an act of cognition or thinking. The group can be a small group, such as 3-5 people talking together or working together online. The group can also be a larger collective, such as a classroom of students or a global community contributing asynchronously to an extended discourse on a problem or topic or to a knowledge repository like Wikipedia. The theory of group cognition is a postcognitivism philosophy, which considers a larger unit of analysis than an individual mind as a producer of cognitive activities such as creative problem solving.\n\nGroup cognition refers to an analytic viewpoint that looks beyond individual cognition to include the interaction of individuals with other people, with artifacts and with cultural resources as producing cognitive products through their interaction. Accordingly, cognition or thinking can be analyzed in a number of ways:\n\n• An individual thinks and speaks. The thought takes place in the individual’s mind (inside the head) and can be expressed in the (external) world through speech, gesture, writing, artifacts. This has been a traditional cognition view since Descartes.\n\n• A small group of people collaborates, usually through spoken or written communication, and produces utterances or other products that cannot be attributed to any one of the group members by themselves. The individuals may build on each other’s ideas (transaction). Also, there may be group processes or features of the group interaction, which themselves contribute to the small-group cognition.\n\n• One or more people may interact with various kinds of artifacts, such as software applications or software agents, resulting in extended cognition.\n\n• One or more people may interact within a social setting, such as a culture or a socio-technical system, resulting in social cognition or situated learning.\n\n• Larger groups of people, artifacts and cultural settings (activity systems) may interact, resulting in collective intelligence or distributed cognition.\n\nSmall groups of people can engage in activities such as mathematical problem solving and can accomplish intellectual achievements. These accomplishments often proceed by means of interactions in which ideas emerge from the discourse between multiple perspectives and cannot be credited to any one person. An utterance by one person is elicited by and responds to the previous discussion and group context in ways that would otherwise not have arisen, and the utterance is structured so as to elicit specific kinds of responses from other participants. Through a sequence of complexly and subtly interwoven interactions, cognitive results are achieved. The meaning of what was said is determined at the group level of the interactions, and is not in general attributable primarily to the expression of pre-existing mental representations of the individual participants.\n\nOf course, small-group cognition relies on the ability of the participating individuals to interpret and understand the group meaning. But even this individual understanding is fundamentally situated in, and emerges from, the interactions of the group, which are structured so as to coordinate these understandings. The philosophy of group cognition does not deny individual cognition, but calls for a re-thinking of the ontology, epistemology and methodology for exploring mind.\n\nSocial psychologists, sociologists and organizational theorist have occasionally referred to group cognition. However, these disciplines have generally rejected the notion for fear of conjuring up images of trans-personal \"metaphysical\" phenomena. Sociologists emphasized the negative possibilities of \"group think\" or \"mass psychology\", whereby members of a group are persuaded by peer pressure to forsake their own individual rationality. Psychology is focused on the individual as the unit of analysis. Twentieth century psychology reacts against popularized readings of earlier idealist philosophy and tends to reduce social phenomena to individual psychology or rational calculations of self-interest of individuals.\n\nOnline interactions, if carefully planned for, can provide ideal data for research on group cognition. If the interaction takes place through text and persistent drawings, logs can preserve an excellent detailed record of virtually everything that took place across the network. Thus, one can analyze everything that was available to the participants and shared by them. In contrast to video analysis, there is no need to worry about camera angles, lighting, transcriptions, interview protocols, coding reliability, etc. to produce an accurate and useful record.\n\nThe data can be analyzed for evidence of the accomplishment of problem solving and other tasks (group cognition) through collaborative interaction within the online group. This can be achieved through close analysis of how groups of participants co-construct shared meanings and sustain joint activities through the sequentiality and relatedness of their situated contributions and their social participation. Of course, there are many questions that cannot be addressed this way, such as what goes on in individual heads and what is remembered by specific participants years later. But these issues are beyond the scope of a group-cognition research agenda. The group accomplishments have been largely ignored in previous educational research, but may constitute what is unique to computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) and most promising for the future of computer support for building collaborative knowledge.\n\nThe Virtual Math Teams (VMT) research project was directed by Gerry Stahl from 2003-2014. It is continuing at the Math Forum as part of NCTM. The VMT project is a prototypical example of Computer-supported collaborative learning research.\n\nThe VMT research group at Drexel University and the Math Forum has developed a methodology for chat analysis that is tuned to the exploration of small-group cognition in a chat environment. This approach is inspired by ethnomethodologically-informed conversation analysis, but the domain differs in multiple significant ways from that of most conversation analysis: Chat is online so neither the participants nor their production of utterances is visible; interactions are text-based so they lack intonation, personality, accent; the topics are math problem solving, rather than socializing; the participants are primarily teenage students engaged in learning, not adult domain experts; the groups are usually 3 to 5 instead of dyads; the participants generally do not know each other or know much about each other; etc.\n\nThe VMT Project's analysis looks closely, line-by-line, at how chat postings build upon each other sequentially; how they respond to previous postings and elicit future ones; how they establish the social order of the group interaction; how they repair problems of co-construction of shared group meanings; how they construct, reference, remember and name resources that they use in their meaning-making. Analysis considers the context within which interactions occur, building up understanding of types of interaction through which targeted hypotheses can be explored in quasi-experimental investigations, ethnographic observation or structured interviews.\n\nThe aim of the VMT Project is to understand students interactions, for example: How students approach a given problem and make use of the affordances of their technology? How do different technical details change or mediate the interactions and the methods that students develop? Such understanding can guide the design of CSCL systems to support effective networked learning.\n\nSmall-group cognition focuses on the small group as the unit of analysis. In this, it contrasts with theories that are oriented to larger units like communities of practice as well as to the individual person. In this sense, the theory of small-group cognition complements theories like distributed cognition and cultural-historical activity theory as well as individual cultural psychology. Small-group cognition theory proposes that small groups are the \"engines of knowledge building.\" The knowing that groups build up in manifold forms is what becomes internalized by their members as individual learning and externalized in their communities as certifiable knowledge. In this sense, the small-group phenomena underlie much of what takes place at the larger scale.\n\nThe Russian psychologist Lev Vygotsky argued that higher-level human cognition is not a biological given aptitude. Rather, individual cognition is developed gradually through social interaction. Various adult intellectual abilities are results of internalization processes through which interpersonal interactions are transformed. For instance, speech begins with talk among people in small groups and dyads. Gradually, young children around the age of four transform speech with others into self-talk, and later into silent speech. The flow of silent speech evolves into the thought of the individual. Such a view reverses the perspective of reductionist psychology and argues for a developmental priority of group cognition. In this sense, the small-group phenomena underlie much of what takes place at the individual scale.\n\n• Stahl discusses the potential of computer and network technology to promote group cognition. It reflects on the methodology for analyzing group cognition and provides some analyzed examples of small group cognitive interaction. The author coined the term \"group cognition\" while writing this book. The term had rarely been used before. The motivation for the VMT research project emerges from the previous CSCW and CSCL studies reported in this book.\n\n• Stahl presents 28 chapters analyzing various aspects of the study of group cognition as conducted by the Virtual Math Teams Project. Chapters are written by the editor, Gerry Stahl, and other members of the VMT research team, visiting researchers who worked on the project and international colleagues. The VMT project was designed specifically to study group cognition in small teams of students discussing mathematics online. A scientific methodology for designing experiments, collecting data, analyzing logs and developing theory is discussed in the book. A number of case studies of excerpts from logs are included. Several chapters discuss larger implications and philosophic issues.\n\n• Stahl discusses the potential of computer and network technology to promote group cognition. It reflects on the design-based research methodology for analyzing group cognition and provides some analyzed examples of small group cognitive interaction. It includes philosophic, technical, historical, mathematical and pedagogical considerations—providing a multi-faceted view of the VMT research project.\n\n• Stahl is a monograph analyzing the work of a group of three students as they become introduced to dynamic mathematics during eight hour-long online sessions using VMT with GeoGebra. The monograph documents the team's development of mathematical group cognition. Introductory chapters motivate the study and discuss its case-study method. Concluding chapters reflect on the group-cognitive development and its implications for re-design of the math curriculum.\n\n• Stahl presents a philosophical argument for the concept of small-group cognition.\n\n• Joint Problem Space\n\n• Intersubjectivity\n\n• Group Agency\n\n• Group Memory\n\n• Computer-Supported Collaborative Learning (CSCL)\n\n• Cultural-Historical Activity Theory (CHAT)\n\n• Distributed Cognition\n\n• Situated cognition\n\n• Collective intelligence\n\n• Actor-network theory\n\n• Macrocognition\n\n• Gerry Stahl\n\n"}
{"id": "7429144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7429144", "title": "Hauora", "text": "Hauora\n\nThe Hauora is a Māori philosophy of health and well-being unique to New Zealand.\n\nThere are four dimensions of Hauora; Taha Tinana (Physical Wellbeing - health), Taha Hinengaro (Mental & Emotional wellbeing - self-confidence), Taha Whanau (Social Wellbeing - self-esteem) and Taha Wairua (Spiritual wellbeing - personal beliefs) There is physical, emotional/mental, social and spiritual caring.\n\nThe Whare Tapa Wha model represents aspects of Hauora as the four walls of a whare, each wall representing a different dimension. All four dimensions are necessary for strength and stability.\n\nOther models of Hauora have been designed. For example, in 1997, Moeau suggested that a fifth dimension, whenua (connection with the land), be added to the original model. In 2001, Hokowhitu also tried to have whenua added to the Tapawha model but again it was not added.\n\nThe Hauora has been integrated into primary and secondary schools in New Zealand to allow students to learn and understand the traditional Māori aspects of well-being.\n\n"}
{"id": "9652745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9652745", "title": "Helen Codere", "text": "Helen Codere\n\nHelen Frances Codere (September 10, 1917 – June 5, 2009) was an American cultural anthropologist who received her BA from the University of Minnesota in 1939 and her PhD in anthropology from Columbia University where she studied with Ruth Benedict. She is best known for her work with the Kwakwaka'wakw people of coastal British Columbia, Canada, known formerly as the \"Kwakiutl.\"\n\nHer academic years spanned over fifty years and included professorships at Vassar College, the University of British Columbia, Northwestern University, Bennington College, and the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nHelen Codere was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, but soon after moved to Minnesota. She never married and stated that \"single women lack some of the freedom and mobility of single men; they are objects of even greater curiosity and scrutiny in a world in which going two by two is projected\", although she did have a longtime companion, Marion Tait.\n\nHer vacation place in Vermont closely resembles her childhood interest of living like the author Henry David Thoreau had once done – it had no running water, but a system of barrels with gutters along the two cabins. Codere favored khaki-type trousers and casual shirts. She is known for being a \"renaissance woman,\" by her friends. \"She was extremely accurate with words, had a great sense of humor, a compelling laugh, and was fiercely independent. She was adamant about reading the paper every day, and always looked ready to go on a hike\".\n\nCodere held positions in the American Ethnological Society and various faculty appointments, notably Brandeis (1964–82), where she also served as dean of the graduate school (1974 – 77). Her academic appointments spanned five decades and included positions at Vassar College, the University of British Columbia, Northwestern University, Bennington College, and the University of Pennsylvania. Her many awards and fellowships include the Social Science Research Council and the Guggenheim Foundation.\n\n\"Codere entered anthropology at a time when the members of the American Anthropology Association would have fitted into one ballroom\". Codere was also one of the first women anthropologists to hold a senior faculty position in a university. Among her achievements, was the 1966 editing of Franz Boas' book \"Kwakiutl Ethnography\"; after he died she continued the work of the Kwakiutl peoples. In 1951, and 1954–55, Codere went on trips to study the Kwakiutl people, where she lived with a family.\n\nAfter retiring, Codere lived on Concord where she continued to volunteer at the library, and spend time with her companion, Marion Tait. When Tait died, Codere never fully recovered. She died on June 5, 2009. She had donated all of her land to the Vermont Land Trust and most of her books to the library at the University of Vermont’s anthropology department.\n\nCodere's first major work was \"Fighting with Property: Study of Kwakiutl Potlatching and Warfare, 1792–1930\", which was also her dissertation for Columbia. In this book, Codere tries to emphasize \"the more amiable features [of the potlatch] such as the capacity for sociability and cooperativeness, rather than the aggressive and competitiveness\", which was the dominant view of the time, and it was also seen as a wasteful and unproductive to civilized values. In \"Fighting with Property\", she carries out an historical examination of materials on the Kwakiutl people from 1792–1930, however, Boas' work formed the basis of her work. She documented that there was a \"major shift that took place was the distribution of property and vigor of potlatches for social prestige and the co-existent decrease and final extinction of warfare and physical violence\" which the Kwakiutl define as \"fighting with property\" rather than with weapons. She says that this change can have profound implications not only for an understanding of the Kwakiutl people but also \"for knowledge of human potentialities for change away from destructiveness, at a point in the history of the world when such a change is necessary\".\n\nHer work on the Kwakiutl was not only important for understanding that culture but also because \"first, it was one of the pioneering efforts of what later came to be known as historical anthropology. Second, while the majority of anthropologists of the time were doing synchronic studies of societies, Codere's work focused on culture change\".\n\nAfter her work with the Kwakiutl, she expanded her work to the Tutsi and Hutu of Rwanda in 1959, during a time of revolution. \"The general purpose of the Rwanda field research,\" she wrote, \"was to study change.\" While in Rwanda, she was challenged to communicate in two languages – Kinyarwanda and French. She collected forty-eight autobiographies of Rwandan men and women: Tutsi, Hutu, and Twa of different ages, education levels, economic statuses and occupations, and along with other research that had been done, she studied the social change, focusing more on the problems and social tensions, rather than the functional theory of society. She viewed society has a \"complex adaptive system\" which was essentially a \"bundle of relations\". The autobiographies that she took showed the complexities of the caste system and also showed details of intercaste relationships, and the ways these were changing. Her studies about Rwandan social structure were carried out when that very social structure entered a period of rapid transformation.\n\n"}
{"id": "40632046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40632046", "title": "Hip-hop based education", "text": "Hip-hop based education\n\nHip-hop based education (HHBE) refers to the use of hip-hop, especially rap songs and lyrics, as curricular resources.\n\nIntegrating hip-hop into academic curriculum gives youth more interest in education and promotes literacy. HHBE advocates believe that hip-hop can be used in classrooms to inspire youth to be agents of social and political. Bringing hip-hop in to educational environment to connect with today's youth is becoming a popular approach that some teachers are deciding to take.\n\nThe implementation of hip-hop into curriculum promotes cultural relevance to youth of color, affirmation of urban identities, and deeper learning through connection with something relevant to youth.\n\nMarcella Runell and Martha Diaz created the \"Hip-Hop Education Guidebook: Volume 1\", a comprehensive collection of lesson plans and resources that educators can use to integrate hip-hop into their classroom curriculum. The book concept was inspired by Diaz, who founded and curated the Hip-Hop Education Summit with Patricia Wang. The lessons include subjects such as mathematics, science, social justice, literacy, and language arts. The education guide introduces teachers to the many ways that hip-hop education can be used in the classroom and it also validated teachers who had previously implemented hip-hop into their curriculum. Hip-Hop Association published the work and Runell stated that the response has been \"tremendous.\"\n\nAsheru, born Gabriel Benn, director of Arts in Education at a D.C. based special education school with the help of Rick Henning launched the H.E.L.P program. It's a monthly periodical and reading supplement designed by teachers and curriculum writers to combine hip-hop music with literacy instruction. Songs for the periodical are chosen based on three criteria, the first being \"the song must be socially redeeming or otherwise significant themes addressed in the songs lyrical content, followed by rich vocabulary use, and lastly the song must be performed by a popular artist.\n\nIn 2007 Tony Muhammad started a popular Myspace blog titled \"Trials of a Hip-hop Educator\". Teachers who were implementing hip-hop into their classrooms could go to this blog and share their struggles with each other.\n\nHip-hop artist Common, with the help of his mother, Dr. Mahalia Hines, developed a self-help hip-hop series of three books—all written by Common—that were released under the company name Hip Hop Schoolhouse. Dr. Hines, with the help of her education colleagues has also created lesson plans and units on how to teach the series to youth. Each book also includes a hip-hip vocabulary dictionary in the back for teachers who are not familiar with hip-hop language.\n\nHip-hop educator and artist Professor A.L.I. currently teaches a University of California approved Hip-Hop History course entitled \"Beats, Rhymes and Life: Hip Hop History 101\" as part of the Blend-Ed Consortium of schools (The Athenian School, College Preparatory School, Lick-Wilmerding, Urban School, and Marin Academy) in which his \"XFactor' Album is an integrated part of the curriculum, using, as he states, \"Hip-Hop to teach Hip-Hop\".\n\nArtist & educator Chad Harper founded Hip Hop Saves Lives as an extra-curricular workshop for youths in schools across New York City. The students write and record a song about a humanitarian \"hero\" of their choosing; they then film a music video and send it to their hero. One such \"hero\" was Desmond Tutu.\n\nChemnitz Germany hosted the first international \"Hip-hop Meets Academia\" conference in August 2006.\n\nHBCU, Howard University hosted a panel in 2006 to discuss the option of creating a hip-hop studies minor within the upcoming years. Intellectuals discuss creating a hip-hop minor\n\nIn 2012, University of Arizona announced the United States' first degree designation around the hip-hop genre. They offer a hip-hop culture minor under the Africana Studies’ department. The program is already underway and will offer an in-depth look at how hip-hop has influenced the American culture in different aspects ranging from hairstyles, graffiti, advertising, and sexuality. University of Arizona hip-hop minor\n\nIn 2012, Cornell University announced the appointment of DJ Afrika Bambaataa as a visiting scholar for a three-year term. This is the first ever faculty appointment for a hip hop pioneer and legend at a major university. He will meet with classes, talk to student and community groups, and perform for several days throughout the year.\n\nCornell University Library is the home of the largest national archive on hip hop culture, documenting its birth and growth by preserving thousands of recordings, flyers, photographs, and other artifacts. Cornell University Hip-hop Library\n\nUW-Madison offers First Wave Program, which is the first university program in the country centered on urban arts, spoken word and hip-hop culture. The programs offers full-tuition to its members.\n"}
{"id": "9952791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9952791", "title": "Humanities College", "text": "Humanities College\n\nHumanities Colleges were introduced in 2004 as part of the Specialist Schools Programme in the United Kingdom. The system enables secondary schools to specialise in certain fields, in this case, humanities. Schools that successfully apply to the Specialist Schools Trust and become Humanities Colleges will receive extra funding from this joint private sector and government scheme. Humanities Colleges also act as a local point of reference for other schools and businesses in the area, with an emphasis on promoting humanities within the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "57563051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57563051", "title": "Institute of Forestry and Environmental Sciences", "text": "Institute of Forestry and Environmental Sciences\n\nInstitute of Forestry and Environmental Sciences, CU (IFESCU) was established in 1976 as Institute of Forestry with the help of Ministry of Environment and Forest, and Bangladesh Forest Department, under University of Chittagong, Bangladesh. It's the pioneer institute for forestry education in Bangladesh. Later, it was renamed as Institute of Forestry and Environmental Sciences in 1996. The Institute started providing in-service training (Master of Forestry) to newly recruited ACF (Assistant Conservator of Forests) in 1977-78, regular 4-year B.Sc. (Hons.) in Forestry in 1978-79, M.Sc. in Forestry in 1996, B.Sc. (Hons.) in Environmental Science in 2000-2001 and M.Sc. in Environmental Science in 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7395641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7395641", "title": "Israel Arts and Science Academy", "text": "Israel Arts and Science Academy\n\nThe Israel Arts and Science Academy (IASA) is a national, residential high school for Israeli students. It opened its doors in September 1990, and was founded by Mary Jane and Robert H. Asher and the late Raphi Amram. IASA was the first high school in the west which combined studies in science, music, humanities and art. \n\nThe school's students are immigrants and native-born religious and secular Jews and Israeli Arabs (Muslim, Christian and Druze. They come from over 100 communities across Israel. The student body numbers approximately 300, including day students from Jerusalem, in addition to residential students. \n\nIASA students are accepted without regard for their financial ability; 70% receive scholarship assistance. Admission is based solely on merit. Tuition is discussed only after the student is accepted. Scholarship assistance, if required, is then arranged. \n\nIASA's goals are excellence, leadership and community service. Pluralism and mutual respect are natural outcomes of living in the IASA community.\n\n95 percent of graduates go on to perform military service. Of the more than 1,000 graduates who have had enough time since graduating to do so, approximately 25% have earned PhDs.\n\nTalpiot is the most exclusive program of the Israel Defense Force (IDF). Annually, Talpiot accepts only 50 of approximately 100,000 high school graduates. They must serve for nine years. Talpiot has been responsible for most of the innovations Israel has developed for use by the IDF. Despite the small size of IASA, more Talpiot members are graduates of the Academy than any other school.\n\nSh’nat Sherut is a voluntary year of public service which graduates of Israeli high schools may undertake in addition to their army service. Nationally, 2.8% of high school graduates volunteer for this program. This past year, with permission granted by appropriate army offices, 42% of IASA graduates volunteered for Sh’nat Sherut. This is a result of IASA's unique Crown Community Service Program. Every student provides community service every Tuesday afternoon during the three years at IASA. \n\nStudents may major in either natural sciences, music, visual arts, or humanities, though they study most subjects (those which are not related to their area of interest) in mixed classes. The science students choose one main subject, such as physics, chemistry, or biology, and they must also learn computer science and/or another subject.\n\nIASA's Music Department was shaped by the visions of three educators: Israeli composer and ethnomusicologist Andre Hajdu (student of Zoltán Kodály, Olivier Messiaen and Darius Milhaud), composer and educator Michael Wolpe, and teacher of ear-training Bat Sheva Rubinstein. The Music Department has produced a generation of young Israeli musicians.\n\nThe studies in the Art Department consist of painting, sculpting, photography, and video art classes. Students also study the history of modern art and classic art. In their second year, students write their own academic paper about any art topic they choose. In their third year, students work on their final practical exhibit.\n\nThe Humanities Department was opened in the 2007–2008 school year. It was opened in a partial experimental format in 2006-2007. The students learn by the \"Great books\" curriculum, which emphasizes reading primary sources, group discussions, commentary, analysis and academic writing. The department's \"Unique Program\" includes several courses arranged in a chrono-historical order, from Ancient Greece to the Modern Era. Each course has a different dominant discipline, but the program is interdisciplinary in its nature. The students submit during every course several academic papers. Besides this program, the students must fulfill three other requirements:\n\n\nThe students often go on school trips, usually to locations which are relevant to the \"Unique Program\" studies (e.g. Judaean Desert, Jerusalem's Old City). \n\nSince the 2012–2013 school year, students and teachers of the department hold a Book Club in which they read a literary work and conduct a meeting where they discuss and analyze the piece.\n\nNotable alumni include the Israeli Arab journalist Sayed Kashua; composers Aviya Kopelman and Matti Kovler; and Eran Shir, the founder of Dapper. Inc.\n\nSaying that following Israel's actions in Gaza, \"courageous civic activism\" had become necessary, dozens of IASA graduates published a letter in December 2014 calling on Israelis to refuse serving in the IDF, become conscientious objectors and stop what they view as oppression of Palestinians. Deputy Education Minister Avi Wortzman protested the letter, saying, \"The signers of the letter are using the name of the school to gain media attention, and this is a terrible act\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7454915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7454915", "title": "JORDY", "text": "JORDY\n\nJORDY or Joint Optical Reflective Display is an optical viewing device developed based on NASA technology. It is used to help the visually impaired see and read.\n\nThe name is inspired by the Star Trek character, Geordi La Forge.\n\n"}
{"id": "44251433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44251433", "title": "Jessie H. Bancroft", "text": "Jessie H. Bancroft\n\nJessie Hubbell Bancroft (1867-1952) was an American educator, a pioneer of physical education and a founder and a president of the American Posture League.\n\nShe was born in Winona, Minnesota and was exposed to the Delsarte System of Physical Culture while studying at Winona Normal School.\n\nDuring 1893-1903 she was Director of Physical Training of the Brooklyn Schools and from 1904 until retirement in 1928 she was Assistant Director of Physical Education of the schools of Greater New York City.\n\nShe was an author of many professional publications on posture, including her insightful 1913 book, \"The Posture of School Children\", as well as other literature on physical education.\n\nIn addition to founding of the APL, she was a founder of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education and the only woman to serve as its secretary (1902-1903).\n\nShe was the first living person to receive the Luther Halsey Guliek Award for advances in physical education (1924). She was made a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science \n\n\n"}
{"id": "849964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=849964", "title": "Kendriya Vidyalaya", "text": "Kendriya Vidyalaya\n\nThe Kendriya Vidyalayas Sangathan ( \"central schools\") are a system of central government schools in India that are instituted under the aegis of the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). It comprises over 1,193 schools in India () and three abroad. It is one of world's largest chains of schools.\n\nThe system came into being in 1963 under the name 'Central Schools'. Later, the name was changed to Kendriya Vidyalaya. All the schools are affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). Its objective is to educate children of the Indian Defence Services personnel who are often posted to remote locations. With the army starting its own Army Public Schools, the service was extended (but not restricted) to all central government employees.\n\nA uniform curriculum is followed by these schools all over India. By providing a common syllabus and system of education, the Kendriya Vidyalayas are intended to ensure that the children of government employees do not face education disadvantages when their parents are transferred from one location to another. The schools have been operational for more than 50 years.\n\nThe Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, which literally translates to 'Central School Organisation', oversees the functioning of the schools with its headquarters in New Delhi.\n\nThe administration of this body is based on levels. The chairman of Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan is always the Minister in Charge of Human Resource Development of the Government of India; the deputy chairman is Minister of State of MHRD. The real working power lies with the Commissioner of KVS; there are additional commissioners to accompany Commissioner in the administration of KVS in different fields. The head of a KVS region is Deputy Commissioner accompanied by an Assistant Commissioner. There are individual principals of every KV administrating the schools along with a Vice-Principal, Head Master/ Mistress.\n\nThe Vidyalaya also has several committees for the holistic development of the students and well maintenance of the school compound and system.\n\nThe most important one is the VMC (Vidyalaya Management Committee), which is the head of all committees.\n\n, there were 1,183 schools named Kendriya Vidyalayas. Kendriya Vidyalaya is one of the longest school chain in world with 1,137 schools in India and three operated abroad.\n\nA total of students () and 56,445 employees were on the rolls (). These were divided among 25 regions, each headed by a deputy commissioner.\n\nThe three Kendriya Vidyalayas outside India are in Kathmandu, Moscow, and Tehran. They are intended for children of Indian embassy staff and other expatriate employees of the government of India.\n\nOne school in Tshimalakha, Bhutan, was transferred to the Bhutanese government, thus ceasing to be a Kendriya Vidyalaya (then known as Indo-Bhutan Central School (IBCS)) in 1989, after one of the major Indo-Bhutan projects (the Chukhha Hydal power project) was near completion. Indian government employees were gradually transferred back to their own country.\n\nAll the schools share a common syllabus and offer bilingual instruction, in English and Hindi. They are co-educational.\n\nSanskrit is taught as a compulsory subject from classes VI to VIII and as an optional subject until class XII. Students in classes VI to VIII could study the German language until November 2014, when the scheme was discontinued. But was again re continued and is available in some schools until class 10. In Moscow, students are given an opportunity to choose French or Russian as their third or second language.\n\nTuition fees are charged for boys from class IX onward, and students have to pay the school development fund (\"Vidyalaya Vikas Nidhi\"), with the proceeds spent on the development of that particular school. Students from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and children of KVS employees are exempt from tuition fees. Girls who are their parents' only child from class VI onward are exempt from tuition and school development fund payments.\n\nAll members of parliament could recommend up to six students from their constituency for admission to a Kendriya Vidyalaya. From the academic session 2016-17, the quota has been increased to 10 students.\n\nThe Quality Council of India (QCI) has accredited two of KV schools, KV RK Puram and KV IIT Powai.\n\n"}
{"id": "1718589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1718589", "title": "Kenneth Chenault", "text": "Kenneth Chenault\n\nKenneth Irvine Chenault (born June 2, 1951) is an American business executive. He was the CEO and Chairman of American Express from 2001 until 2018. He is the third black CEO of a Fortune 500 company.\n\nChenault was born in Mineola, New York, Nassau County, the son of a dentist and dental hygienist. His father, Hortenius Chenault, was a graduate of Morehouse College and Howard University Dental School. The elder Chenault passed the New York State dental exam with the highest score ever recorded as of January 2014. Kenneth Chenault attended the Waldorf School of Garden City, where he served as senior class president. He then received a B.A. in history from Bowdoin College in 1973, and a J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1976. \n\nChenault began his career as an associate at the law firm Rogers & Wells (1977–1979) in New York City, and as a consultant for Bain & Company (1979–1981).\n\nChenault joined American Express in 1981, working in the Strategic Planning Group. He became president and chief operating officer in 1997. He became CEO of American Express in 2001.\n\nChenault is the co-chair of the Business Roundtable, a board member at IBM, and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. He is a member of the Executive Committee of The Business Council for 2011 and 2012.\n\nIn 1995, \"Ebony\" listed him as one of 50 \"living pioneers\" in the African-American community. Chenault was inducted into the Junior Achievement U.S. Business Hall of Fame in 2002. In 2008, he gave the commencement address at Howard University.\n\nIn May 2010, he gave the commencement speech at Wake Forest University and Northeastern University.\n\nAs CEO of American Express in 2007 and 2008, Chenault earned a total compensation of $50,126,585 and $42,752,461 respectively. In 2009, he earned a total compensation of $16,617,639, which included a base salary of $1,201,923, a cash bonus of $10,450,000, an option grant of $3,985,637, and other compensation worth $980,079. In 2016, Chenault earned a total compensation of $22 million.\n\nOn October 18, 2017, he announced that he would retire as its chairman and chief executive on February 1, 2018. He was succeeded by Stephen J. Squeri.\n\nIn January 2018, Chenault announced he would become chairman and managing director of General Catalyst Partners and joined the board of directors of Airbnb.\n\nChenault has served on the board of directors of Facebook since February 2018.\n\nOn November 15, 2010, Old North Foundation recognized Chenault with its Third Lantern Award for individual commitment and dedication to public service. The Foundation honored Chenault and American Express for their significant contributions to the preservation efforts of many significant monuments and landmark structures, including the steeple of the Old North Church.\nChenault and wife, Kathryn, are founding donors to the Art for Justice Fund, which aims to reduce prison populations and strengthen employment opportunities for those leaving.\n\nOn February 10, 2014, it was announced that he had been elected to fill a vacated seat of the Harvard Corporation; the Corporation is the chief fiduciary authority of the University and is the smaller of the two governing boards, the other being the Harvard Board of Overseers).\n\nChenault resides in New Rochelle, New York, with his wife and children. Chenault is a member of Westchester Country Club.\n"}
{"id": "19270753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19270753", "title": "Kenya School of Law", "text": "Kenya School of Law\n\nThe Kenya School of Law (KSL) is the only bar school in Kenya. After their completion of an Undergraduate Degrees in Law from a recognized university, students attend the Kenya School of Law to be prepared for admission to the Kenyan Bar.\n\nThe Kenya School of Law was established as a law vocational training school for the training of barristers in 1963. It was created by Gerald Davis, a barrister under the auspices of Lord Justice Denning. Many of the lecturers appointed by Gerald Davis went on to become Judges in the UK. The standard of teaching was very high. However, the establishment of Faculties of Law in East African universities led to a need to change the training offered at the Kenya School of Law. The Kenya School of Law was re-established as in 1995 to provide the Advocates Training Program which focused on the preparation of young lawyers for entry into the legal profession.\n\nIn 2005, a ministerial task force on the Development of a Policy and Legal Framework for Legal Education in Kenya expanded the mandate of the Kenya School of Law to include the following:\n\nThe Council of Legal Education Act is the basis of legal training in Kenya.\n\nThe Kenya School of Law sponsors Kenya School of Law Thola Glass Football Club, commonly known as KSL Thola Glass or simply Thola Glass or Thola, which competes in FKF Division One, the second tier in the Kenyan football league system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38664742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38664742", "title": "Kigali Independent University", "text": "Kigali Independent University\n\nKigali Independent University (, ULK), in Rwanda, is a private Institution of Higher Learning founded on 15 March 1996 and governed by the Law No. 27/2013 of 24/5/2013 governing the organization and functioning of Higher Education in Rwanda, the Law No. 13/2009 regulating Labor in Rwanda, the Presidential Order No. 51/01 of 13/7/2010 establishing quality standards in higher learning institutions.\n\nKigali Independent University ULK was created in 1996, after the genocide in Rwanda which took place in 1994. Prof. Dr Rwigamba Balinda is the founder and owner of the University. ULK started its activities from the St Paul buildings. After the St. Paul buildings, ULK built its first campus at Kacyiru currently these buildings holds the secondary school \"Glory Secondary School\". In 2007, All Administrative and teaching activities of ULK Kigali campus moved to the new headquarters at Gisozi sector.\n\nFrom January 2007 all the ULK Kigali campus faculties and administration operate in the new Campus premises at Gisozi.\n\nA large stadium with almost 14,000 places holding capacity. For the academic year 2012-2013, ULK acquired 3,520 new books. Total books in the physical library counts 66,200 titles and a digital library with 500 new computers which has access to different publishers of e-books and e-journals, with a total of 1,170 computers for all the ULK computer laboratories, as well as six generators, including four of 200 KVA; 22 vehicles; etc.\n\nDepartments:\nAccounting\nFinance\nEconomics\nRural Development (Gisenyi campus only)\n\nDepartments:\nDevelopment Studies\nInternational Relations\nPopulation Studies\n\nDepartment of Computer Science\n\nDepartment of Law\n\nCurrently ULK Kigali campus has 4 buildings:\n\nAlthough ULK has only these four buildings in the Kigali Campus, it has a Master plan which will include many buildings, a hospital and a big stadium.\n\n"}
{"id": "6061753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6061753", "title": "Lawrence LeShan", "text": "Lawrence LeShan\n\nLawrence LeShan (born September 6, 1920) is an American psychologist, educator and the author of the best-selling \"How to Meditate\" (1974) a practical guide to meditation. He has authored or co-authored approximately 75 articles in the professional literature and thirteen books on a diverse range of topics including psychotherapy, war, cancer treatment, and mysticism. He has also written science fiction under the pseudonym Edward Grendon.\n\nLeShan holds a Ph.D. in Human Development from the University of Chicago and has taught at Pace College, Roosevelt University, and the New School for Social Research. He worked as a clinical and research psychologist for more than 50 years, including six years as a psychologist in the U.S. Army.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, LeShan conducted extensive research in the field of parapsychology. In his book \"The Medium, the Mystic, and the Physicist: Toward a General Theory of the Paranormal\", he investigated paranormal topics, mystical thought and quantum mechanics. In the book LeShan claimed to have tested his hypothesis of \"clairvoyant reality\". He said the results were a success and he could heal with mental power and train others to do the same. However, Tim Healey wrote the results were not convincing as nine of his students had eight attempts at using a clairvoyant training technique and all scored four to fives misses.\n\nIn \"World of the Paranormal: The Next Frontier\", LeShan advanced his paranormal ideas further, claiming that psychic abilities such as clairvoyance, precognition and telepathy can be explained using quantum theory.\n\nIn the 1980s, LeShan's focus shifted to the psychotherapy of cancer support, a field in which he is considered a pioneer. LeShan lives in New York City. LeShan was married to the late Eda LeShan, who was also a writer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35868771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35868771", "title": "List of libraries in Germany", "text": "List of libraries in Germany\n\nThis is a list of libraries in the Federal Republic of Germany. There is a much more extensive list available on the . There are about 6,313 public libraries in Germany.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14302231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14302231", "title": "Mark Guzdial", "text": "Mark Guzdial\n\nMark Joseph Guzdial (born September 7, 1962) is a Professor in the College of Engineering at the University of Michigan. He was formerly a professor in the School of Interactive Computing at the Georgia Institute of Technology affiliated with the College of Computing and the GVU Center. He is best known for his research in the fields of computer science education and the learning sciences and internationally in the field of Information Technology. From 2001-2003, he was selected to be an ACM Distinguished Lecturer, and in 2007 he was appointed Vice-Chair of the ACM Education Board Council. He was the original developer of the CoWeb (or Swiki), one of the earliest wiki engines, which was implemented in Squeak and has been in use at institutions of higher education since 1998. He is the inventor of the Media Computation approach to learning introductory computing, which uses contextualized computing education to attract and retain students.\n\nMark Guzdial was born in Michigan and attended Wayne State University for his undergraduate studies, earning a Bachelor of Science degree in computer science in 1984. He received a master's degree in 1986 in Computer Science and Engineering at Wayne State University. Guzdial went on to receive a Ph.D. at the University of Michigan in 1993 in Computer Science and Education where he was advised by Elliot Soloway. His thesis created an environment for high school science learners to program multimedia demonstrations and physics simulations. After graduating from the University of Michigan, Guzdial accepted a position as an assistant professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology College of Computing. In 2018, he became a full professor in the College of Engineering at the University of Michigan.\n\nGuzdial currently directs the Contextualized Support for Learning Lab (CSL), a team of faculty, graduate, and undergraduate students who design and implement innovative technology for the goal of improving learning. Guzdial’s research projects include Media Computation, an approach that emphasizes context in computer science education, using programming languages, lectures examples, and programming assignments from those contexts that students recognize as being authentic and relevant for computing.\n\nHis Media Computation course has been taught at Georgia Tech since 2003 and has shown increases in computing across underrepresented groups, including women and minorities. Guzdial’s Media Computation curriculum is being used at universities across the country. He received a grant from the National Science Foundation in 2006 to pursue his “Using Media Computation to Attract and Retain Students in Computing” curriculum.\n\nGuzdial is currently serving as Program Co-Chair of the ACM Special Interest Group on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE) 2008 Annual Symposium, the largest computing education conference in the world. Guzdial was Director of Undergraduate Programs (including the BS in Computer Science, BS in Computational Media, and Minor in Computer Science) until 2007. He is Lead Principal Investigator on Georgia Computes, a National Science Foundation Broadening Participation in Computing alliance focused on increasing the number and diversity of computing students in the state of Georgia. He has published dozens of scholarly articles in peer-reviewed journals and has given invited presentations at academic conferences such as SIGCSE and ICER. He is a member of numerous academic journals and professional societies, including IEEE, ACM, and AERA.\n\nIn 2010, Guzdial was awarded the Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award \"for [his] contributions to computing education, through the Media Computation (MediaComp) approach that they have created, supported, and disseminated, and its impact on broadening participation in computing.\" In 2012, he received the IEEE Computer Science and Engineering Undergraduate Teaching Award \"for outstanding and sustained excellence in computing education through innovative teaching, mentoring, inventive course development, and knowledge dissemination.\" In 2014, Guzdial was elected a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery \"for contributions to computing education, and broadening participation.\"\n\n\nGuzdial was married to Barb Ericson in July 1985. They have three children, Matthew, Katherine, and Jennifer.\n"}
{"id": "21029331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21029331", "title": "Mexican Youth Athenaeum", "text": "Mexican Youth Athenaeum\n\nThe Mexican Youth Athenaeum, later known as the \"Athenaeum of Mexico\", was a Mexican civil association founded on October 28, 1909 with the purpose of working in favor of culture and art, by means of organization public meetings and debates. Born as a response of a generation of young intellectuals who in the decline of the rule of President Porfirio Díaz set a series of criticisms to determinism and mechanism set by the Comtian and Spencerian positivism as the development model of Porfirio Díaz's administration and the group of the \"científicos. Through a series of conferences and different cultural efforts they activated a reflexive awareness on education.\n\nThe members of the Athenaeum gave to Mexican education system a wider vision which rejected racist biological determinism and which found a solution for the cost of social adjustment problem generated by the processes which change society as industrialization or urbanization.\n\nAgainst the official position of Justo Sierra, porfirian minister of Instruction, and the \"científicos\" (pejoratively nicknamed in the Mexican slang), José Vasconcelos and the Athenaeum generation promoted criticism of the philosophical sole vision (positivism and determinism). The Athenaeum generation proposed academic freedom, freedom of thought, and overall the cultural, ethic and aesthetic values in which Latin America emerged as a political and social reality. Here is important to emphasize that one of the most important characteristics of the Porfiriato years, was its disdain for everything national, Mexican; its fascination for European, French, German or if nothing of these were possible American things and ideas, as the only way for achieving progress.\n\nAntonio Caso, Alfonso Reyes, Pedro Henríquez Ureña, Ricardo Gomez Rebelo and José Vasconcelos along with the other members of the Youth Athenaeum set up the basis to an ambitious rescue of what is Mexican, and to set what is Latin American as an identity that besides being real, might be possible in the future and mainly non-dependent on the destruction of national, local, Latin-American, as the way to progress, as it happened under the Porfiriato and other experiments such as the Coronelismo in Brazil.\n\nÁlvaro Matute, El Ateneo de México \n"}
{"id": "14431722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14431722", "title": "Moses Clark White", "text": "Moses Clark White\n\nMoses Clark White (; Pinyin: \"Huáidé\"; Foochow Romanized: \"Huài-dáik\"; July 24, 1819 – October 24, 1900) was both an American Methodist pioneer missionary in China and a physician.\n\nMoses Clark White was born in Paris, Oneida County, New York on July 24, 1819. White matriculated at Wesleyan University in 1842 and graduated in 1845. After graduation from Wesleyan, he spent two years in Yale studying medicine and theology, and sometimes preached in the nearby town of Milford, Connecticut. On March 13, 1847, White married Jane Isabel Atwater of Homer, who came from Cortland County, New York and was then a teacher in the Sabbath School in Rochester, N.Y.\nIn September 1847 Moses White and Jane, along with Judson Dwight Collins, arrived in Foochow, beginning their missionary work there. Jane, however, fell sick shortly afterwards and finally died of consumption on May 25, 1848, at the age of 26. In 1851, White was married a second time to Mary Seely, who came from Onondaga, New York and also went to Foochow as a missionary.\n\nDuring his seven years in Foochow, Moses White conducted a school for the secular and religious instruction of the Foochow people, and after mastering the local Fuzhou dialect, he translated the Gospel of Matthew, which was the first Christian document ever published in that vernacular. At the same time, White also served as a doctor, studying and treating the toxic effects of opium.\n\nDue to his poor health, Moses White was forced to leave Foochow in 1853 for New Haven (his wife Mary also left one year earlier) where he resumed medical studies at Yale and began a medical practice which he continued until the end of his life. He received an M.D. degree from Yale in 1854. In July 1856, he published in \"Methodist Quarterly Review\" his summarizing treatise on Fuzhou dialect .\n\nWhite died on October 24, 1900.\n\n"}
{"id": "35646459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35646459", "title": "National Campaign Against Fees and Cuts", "text": "National Campaign Against Fees and Cuts\n\nThe National Campaign Against Fees and Cuts or NCAFC is a membership-based organisation of activist students and education workers campaigning against tuition fees, education cuts and privatisation in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe organisation was founded at a convention at University College London in February 2010 on a platform of campaigning for \"free, fair and funded public education for all\", paid for through the taxation of the rich and big business.\n\nThe organisation played a role in the 2010 UK student protests, calling several days of action following the National Union of Students organised demonstration on 10 November. It was estimated that up to 130,000 students took part in the 24 November 2010 day of action across the UK.\n\nIn 2011 NCAFC organised a march through central London, supported by the National Union of Students and the University and College Union, in opposition to the government's Higher Education White Paper. As many as 15,000 students took part, with the Metropolitan Police pre-authorising the use of plastic bullets in the light of the violence after the previous year's protest against student fees. BBC reporter Mike Sergeant described the policing on the day as \"quite extraordinary... It's the most tightly controlled march through London that I have ever seen\". The government later withdrew the HE Bill.\n\nIn 2014, NCAFC organised another major national demonstration for free education, this time in collaboration with the Student Assembly Against Austerity and the Young Greens. Organisers claimed that the demonstration saw 10,000 students march and that the event was the largest mobilisation of students in Britain since 2010. Following the demonstration, NCAFC organised two separate nationwide days of action for free education, on December 3, 2014 and January 31st 2015. The first gained wide publicity after accusations of police violence at a student occupation at the University of Warwick and the second saw students marching in Brighton, Sheffield and Norwich among other cities.\n\nThese marches were followed by a demonstration co-ordinated by NCAFC at the Labour Party Conference in Birmingham in protest at the party's stance on Higher Education funding.\n\nDespite significant gains for left wing candidates at the 2015 National Union of Students conference, candidates standing on the National Campaign Against Fees Cuts slate saw limited success. NCAFC's candidates for President, Beth Redmond, and Vice President Higher Education, Hattie Craig, widely regarded as presenting a 'hard left' face inside NUS in comparison to many of the other left-wing candidates, were not elected into full-time roles. However, NCAFC's candidate for Vice President (Welfare), Shelly Asquith, was elected, and Beth Redmond and Hannah Webb were elected to the NUS Block of 15, meaning the NCAFC have maintained a presence on the NUS National Executive Council as well as maintaining a strong presence in student unions and in autonomous areas of NUS.\n\nIn November 2015 the NCAFC organised another national student demonstration in London under the slogan: \"No Borders, No Barriers, No Business\". The demonstration aimed to connect the fight against cuts to maintenance grants affecting the million poorest students and issues of migration and the refugee crisis. Organisers claimed 10,000 students from across the country joined the protest.\n\nThe demonstration was marked by a clash between police and protesters outside the Department for Business Innovation and Skills when protesters attempted to storm the building. This was followed by what organisers claimed was a use of the controversial kettling containment tactic on Victoria Street, before thousands of students broke police lines and began an unscheduled demonstration through the Victoria area that continued into the evening. 12 demonstrators were arrested over the course of the day.\n\nNCAFC also has semi-autonomous campaigns in Scotland and Wales.\n\nThe organisation also undertakes research into education funding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57094768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57094768", "title": "Offprint", "text": "Offprint\n\nAn offprint is a separate printing of a work that originally appeared as part of a larger publication, usually one of composite authorship such as an academic journal, magazine, or edited book. \n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of Library and Information Science\" states that, according to James Murray's \"New English Dictionary on Historical Principles\", the word was derived from the German \"separatabdruck\" or the Dutch \"afdruk\".\n\nOffprints are used by authors to promote their work and ensure a wider dissemination and longer life than might have been achieved through the original publication alone. They may be valued by collectors as akin to the first separate edition of a work and, as they are often given away, may bear an inscription from the author. Historically, the exchange of offprints has been a method of correspondence between scholars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "128027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=128027", "title": "Operant conditioning", "text": "Operant conditioning\n\nOperant conditioning (also called instrumental conditioning) is a learning process through which the strength of a behavior is modified by reinforcement or punishment. It is also a procedure that is used to bring about such learning.\n\nAlthough operant and classical conditioning both involve behaviors controlled by environmental stimuli, they differ in nature. In operant conditioning, stimuli present when a behavior is rewarded or punished come to control that behavior. For example, a child may learn to open a box to get the candy inside, or learn to avoid touching a hot stove; in operant terms, the box and the stove are \"discriminative stimuli\". Operant behavior is said to be \"voluntary\": for example, the child may face a choice between opening the box and petting a puppy.\n\nIn contrast, classical conditioning involves involuntary behavior based on the pairing of stimuli with biologically significant events. For example, sight of candy may cause a child to salivate, or the sound of a door slam may signal an angry parent, causing a child to tremble. Salivation and trembling are not operants; they are not reinforced by their consequences, and they are not voluntarily \"chosen\".\n\nThe study of animal learning in the 20th century was dominated by the analysis of these two sorts of learning, and they are still at the core of behavior analysis.\n\nOperant conditioning, sometimes called \"instrumental learning\", was first extensively studied by Edward L. Thorndike (1874–1949), who observed the behavior of cats trying to escape from home-made puzzle boxes. A cat could escape from the box by a simple response such as pulling a cord or pushing a pole, but when first constrained, the cats took a long time to get out. With repeated trials ineffective responses occurred less frequently and successful responses occurred more frequently, so the cats escaped more and more quickly. Thorndike generalized this finding in his law of effect, which states that behaviors followed by satisfying consequences tend to be repeated and those that produce unpleasant consequences are less likely to be repeated. In short, some consequences \"strengthen\" behavior and some consequences \"weaken\" behavior. By plotting escape time against trial number Thorndike produced the first known animal learning curves through this procedure.\n\nHumans appear to learn many simple behaviors through the sort of process studied by Thorndike, now called operant conditioning. That is, responses are retained when they lead to a successful outcome and discarded when they do not, or when they produce aversive effects. This usually happens without being planned by any \"teacher\", but operant conditioning has been used by parents in teaching their children for thousands of years.\n\nB.F. Skinner (1904–1990) is referred to as the father of operant conditioning, and his work is frequently cited in connection with this topic. His 1938 book \"The Behavior of Organisms: An Experimental Analysis\", initiated his lifelong study of operant conditioning and its application to human and animal behavior. Following the ideas of Ernst Mach, Skinner rejected Thorndike's reference to unobservable mental states such as satisfaction, building his analysis on observable behavior and its equally observable consequences.\n\nSkinner believed that classical conditioning was too simplistic to be used to describe something as complex as human behavior. Operant conditioning, in his opinion, better described human behavior as it examined causes and effects of intentional behavior.\n\nTo implement his empirical approach, Skinner invented the operant conditioning chamber, or \"Skinner Box\", in which subjects such as pigeons and rats were isolated and could be exposed to carefully controlled stimuli. Unlike Thorndike's puzzle box, this arrangement allowed the subject to make one or two simple, repeatable responses, and the rate of such responses became Skinner's primary behavioral measure. Another invention, the cumulative recorder, produced a graphical record from which these response rates could be estimated. These records were the primary data that Skinner and his colleagues used to explore the effects on response rate of various reinforcement schedules. A reinforcement schedule may be defined as \"any procedure that delivers reinforcement to an organism according to some well-defined rule\". The effects of schedules became, in turn, the basic findings from which Skinner developed his account of operant conditioning. He also drew on many less formal observations of human and animal behavior.\n\nMany of Skinner's writings are devoted to the application of operant conditioning to human behavior. In 1948 he published \"Walden Two\", a fictional account of a peaceful, happy, productive community organized around his conditioning principles. In 1957, Skinner published \"Verbal Behavior\", which extended the principles of operant conditioning to language, a form of human behavior that had previously been analyzed quite differently by linguists and others. Skinner defined new functional relationships such as \"mands\" and \"tacts\" to capture some essentials of language, but he introduced no new principles, treating verbal behavior like any other behavior controlled by its consequences, which included the reactions of the speaker's audience.\n\nOperant behavior is said to be \"emitted\"; that is, initially it is not elicited by any particular stimulus. Thus one may ask why it happens in the first place. The answer to this question is like Darwin's answer to the question of the origin of a \"new\" bodily structure, namely, variation and selection. Similarly, the behavior of an individual varies from moment to moment, in such aspects as the specific motions involved, the amount of force applied, or the timing of the response. Variations that lead to reinforcement are strengthened, and if reinforcement is consistent, the behavior tends to remain stable. However, behavioral variability can itself be altered through the manipulation of certain variables.\n\nReinforcement and punishment are the core tools through which operant behavior is modified. These terms are defined by their effect on behavior. Either may be positive or negative. \nAnother procedure is called \"extinction\".\nThere are a total of five consequences. \n\nIt is important to note that actors (e.g. a rat) are not spoken of as being reinforced, punished, or extinguished; it is the \"actions\" that are reinforced, punished, or extinguished. Reinforcement, punishment, and extinction are not terms whose use is restricted to the laboratory. Naturally-occurring consequences can also reinforce, punish, or extinguish behavior and are not always planned or delivered on purpose.\n\nSchedules of reinforcement are rules that control the delivery of reinforcement. The rules specify either the time that reinforcement is to be made available, or the number of responses to be made, or both. Many rules are possible, but the following are the most basic and commonly used\n\n\nThe effectiveness of reinforcement and punishment can be changed. \n\nShaping is a conditioning method much used in animal training and in teaching nonverbal humans. It depends on operant variability and reinforcement, as described above. The trainer starts by identifying the desired final (or \"target\") behavior. Next, the trainer chooses a behavior that the animal or person already emits with some probability. The form of this behavior is then gradually changed across successive trials by reinforcing behaviors that approximate the target behavior more and more closely. When the target behavior is finally emitted, it may be strengthened and maintained by the use of a schedule of reinforcement.\n\nNoncontingent reinforcement is the delivery of reinforcing stimuli regardless of the organism's behavior. Noncontingent reinforcement may be used in an attempt to reduce an undesired target behavior by reinforcing multiple alternative responses while extinguishing the target response. As no measured behavior is identified as being strengthened, there is controversy surrounding the use of the term noncontingent \"reinforcement\".\n\nThough initially operant behavior is emitted without an identified reference to a particular stimulus, during operant conditioning operants come under the control of stimuli that are present when behavior is reinforced. Such stimuli are called \"discriminative stimuli.\" A so-called \"three-term contingency\" is the result. That is, discriminative stimuli set the occasion for responses that produce reward or punishment. Example: a rat may be trained to press a lever only when a light comes on; a dog rushes to the kitchen when it hears the rattle of his/her food bag; a child reaches for candy when s/he sees it on a table.\n\nMost behavior is under stimulus control. Several aspects of this may be distinguished: \n\nMost behavior cannot easily be described in terms of individual responses reinforced one by one. The scope of operant analysis is expanded through the idea of behavioral chains, which are sequences of responses bound together by the three-term contingencies defined above. Chaining is based on the fact, experimentally demonstrated, that a discriminative stimulus not only sets the occasion for subsequent behavior, but it can also reinforce a behavior that precedes it. That is, a discriminative stimulus is also a \"conditioned reinforcer\". For example, the light that sets the occasion for lever pressing may be used to reinforce \"turning around\" in the presence of a noise. This results in the sequence \"noise – turn-around – light – press lever – food\". Much longer chains can be built by adding more stimuli and responses.\n\nIn escape learning, a behavior terminates an (aversive) stimulus. For example, shielding one's eyes from sunlight terminates the (aversive) stimulation of bright light in one's eyes. (This is an example of negative reinforcement, defined above.) Behavior that is maintained by preventing a stimulus is called \"avoidance,\" as, for example, putting on sun glasses before going outdoors. Avoidance behavior raises the so-called \"avoidance paradox\", for, it may be asked, how can the non-occurrence of a stimulus serve as a reinforcer? This question is addressed by several theories of avoidance (see below).\n\nTwo kinds of experimental settings are commonly used: discriminated and free-operant avoidance learning.\n\nA discriminated avoidance experiment involves a series of trials in which a neutral stimulus such as a light is followed by an aversive stimulus such as a shock. After the neutral stimulus appears an operant response such as a lever press prevents or terminate the aversive stimulus. In early trials, the subject does not make the response until the aversive stimulus has come on, so these early trials are called \"escape\" trials. As learning progresses, the subject begins to respond during the neutral stimulus and thus prevents the aversive stimulus from occurring. Such trials are called \"avoidance trials.\" This experiment is said to involve classical conditioning because a neutral CS is paired with the aversive US; this idea underlies the two-factor theory of avoidance learning described below.\n\nIn free-operant avoidance a subject periodically receives an aversive stimulus (often an electric shock) unless an operant response is made; the response delays the onset of the shock. In this situation, unlike discriminated avoidance, no prior stimulus signals the shock. Two crucial time intervals determine the rate of avoidance learning. This first is the S-S (shock-shock) interval. This is time between successive shocks in the absence of a response. The second interval is the R-S (response-shock) interval. This specifies the time by which an operant response delays the onset of the next shock. Note that each time the subject performs the operant response, the R-S interval without shock begins anew.\n\nThis theory was originally proposed in order to explain discriminated avoidance learning, in which an organism learns to avoid an aversive stimulus by escaping from a signal for that stimulus. Two processes are involved: classical conditioning of the signal followed by operant conditioning of the escape response:\n\na) \"Classical conditioning of fear.\" Initially the organism experiences the pairing of a CS (conditioned stimulus) with an aversive US (unconditioned stimulus). The theory assumes that this pairing creates an association between the CS and the US through classical conditioning and, because of the aversive nature of the US, the CS comes to elicit a conditioned emotional reaction (CER) – \"fear.\" b) \"Reinforcement of the operant response by fear-reduction.\" As a result of the first process, the CS now signals fear; this unpleasant emotional reaction serves to motivate operant responses, and responses that terminate the CS are reinforced by fear termination. Note that the theory does not say that the organism \"avoids\" the US in the sense of anticipating it, but rather that the organism \"escapes\" an aversive internal state that is caused by the CS.\nSeveral experimental findings seem to run counter to two-factor theory. For example, avoidance behavior often extinguishes very slowly even when the initial CS-US pairing never occurs again, so the fear response might be expected to extinguish (see Classical conditioning). Further, animals that have learned to avoid often show little evidence of fear, suggesting that escape from fear is not necessary to maintain avoidance behavior.\n\nSome theorists suggest that avoidance behavior may simply be a special case of operant behavior maintained by its consequences. In this view the idea of \"consequences\" is expanded to include sensitivity to a pattern of events. Thus, in avoidance, the consequence of a response is a reduction in the rate of aversive stimulation. Indeed, experimental evidence suggests that a \"missed shock\" is detected as a stimulus, and can act as a reinforcer. Cognitive theories of avoidance take this idea a step farther. For example, a rat comes to \"expect\" shock if it fails to press a lever and to \"expect no shock\" if it presses it, and avoidance behavior is strengthened if these expectancies are confirmed.\n\nOperant hoarding refers to the observation that rats reinforced in a certain way may allow food pellets to accumulate in a food tray instead of retrieving those pellets. In this procedure, retrieval of the pellets always instituted a one-minute period of extinction during which no additional food pellets were available but those that had been accumulated earlier could be consumed. This finding appears to contradict the usual finding that rats behave impulsively in situations in which there is a choice between a smaller food object right away and a larger food object after some delay. See schedules of reinforcement.\n\nThe first scientific studies identifying neurons that responded in ways that suggested they encode for conditioned stimuli came from work by Mahlon deLong and by R.T. Richardson. They showed that nucleus basalis neurons, which release acetylcholine broadly throughout the cerebral cortex, are activated shortly after a conditioned stimulus, or after a primary reward if no conditioned stimulus exists. These neurons are equally active for positive and negative reinforcers, and have been shown to be related to neuroplasticity in many cortical regions. Evidence also exists that dopamine is activated at similar times. There is considerable evidence that dopamine participates in both reinforcement and aversive learning. Dopamine pathways project much more densely onto frontal cortex regions. Cholinergic projections, in contrast, are dense even in the posterior cortical regions like the primary visual cortex. A study of patients with Parkinson's disease, a condition attributed to the insufficient action of dopamine, further illustrates the role of dopamine in positive reinforcement. It showed that while off their medication, patients learned more readily with aversive consequences than with positive reinforcement. Patients who were on their medication showed the opposite to be the case, positive reinforcement proving to be the more effective form of learning when dopamine activity is high.\n\nA neurochemical process involving dopamine has been suggested to underlie reinforcement. When an organism experiences a reinforcing stimulus, dopamine pathways in the brain are activated. This network of pathways \"releases a short pulse of dopamine onto many dendrites, thus broadcasting a global reinforcement signal to postsynaptic neurons.\" This allows recently activated synapses to increase their sensitivity to efferent (conducting outward) signals, thus increasing the probability of occurrence for the recent responses that preceded the reinforcement. These responses are, statistically, the most likely to have been the behavior responsible for successfully achieving reinforcement. But when the application of reinforcement is either less immediate or less contingent (less consistent), the ability of dopamine to act upon the appropriate synapses is reduced.\n\nA number of observations seem to show that operant behavior can be established without reinforcement in the sense defined above. Most cited is the phenomenon of autoshaping (sometimes called \"sign tracking\"), in which a stimulus is repeatedly followed by reinforcement, and in consequence the animal begins to respond to the stimulus. For example, a response key is lighted and then food is presented. When this is repeated a few times a pigeon subject begins to peck the key even though food comes whether the bird pecks or not. Similarly, rats begin to handle small objects, such as a lever, when food is presented nearby. Strikingly, pigeons and rats persist in this behavior even when pecking the key or pressing the lever leads to less food (omission training). Another apparent operant behavior that appears without reinforcement is contrafreeloading.\n\nThese observations and others appear to contradict the law of effect, and they have prompted some researchers to propose new conceptualizations of operant reinforcement (e.g.) A more general view is that autoshaping is an instance of classical conditioning; the autoshaping procedure has, in fact, become one of the most common ways to measure classical conditioning. In this view, many behaviors can be influenced by both classical contingencies (stimulus-response) and operant contingencies (response-reinforcement), and the experimenter's task is to work out how these interact.\n\nThe example of someone having a positive experience with a drug is easy to see how drug dependence and the law of effect works. The tolerance for a drug goes down as one continues to use it after having a positive experience with a certain amount the first time. It will take more and more to get that same feeling. This is when the controlled substance in an experiment would have to be modified and the experiment would really begin. The law of work for psychologist B. F. Skinner almost half a century later on the principles of operant conditioning, \"a learning process by which the effect, or consequence, of a response influences the future rate of production of that response.\n\nReinforcement and punishment are ubiquitous in human social interactions, and a great many applications of operant principles have been suggested and implemented. Following are a few examples.\n\nApplied behavior analysis is the discipline initiated by B. F. Skinner that applies the principles of conditioning to the modification of socially significant human behavior. It uses the basic concepts of conditioning theory, including conditioned stimulus (S), discriminative stimulus (S), response (R), and reinforcing stimulus (S or S for reinforcers, sometimes S for aversive stimuli). A conditioned stimulus controls behaviors developed through respondent (classical) conditioning, such as emotional reactions. The other three terms combine to form Skinner's \"three-term contingency\": a discriminative stimulus sets the occasion for responses that lead to reinforcement. Researchers have found the following protocol to be effective when they use the tools of operant conditioning to modify human behavior:\n\nPractitioners of applied behavior analysis (ABA) bring these procedures, and many variations and developments of them, to bear on a variety of socially significant behaviors and issues. In many cases, practitioners use operant techniques to develop constructive, socially acceptable behaviors to replace aberrant behaviors. The techniques of ABA have been effectively applied in to such things as early intensive behavioral interventions for children with an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) research on the principles influencing criminal behavior, HIV prevention, conservation of natural resources, education, gerontology, health and exercise, industrial safety, language acquisition, littering, medical procedures, parenting, psychotherapy, seatbelt use, severe mental disorders, sports, substance abuse, phobias, pediatric feeding disorders, and zoo management and care of animals. Some of these applications are among those described below.\n\nPositive and negative reinforcement play central roles in the development and maintenance of addiction and drug dependence. An addictive drug is intrinsically rewarding; that is, it functions as a primary positive reinforcer of drug use. The brain's reward system assigns it incentive salience (i.e., it is \"wanted\" or \"desired\"), so as an addiction develops, deprivation of the drug leads to craving. In addition, stimuli associated with drug use – e.g., the sight of a syringe, and the location of use – become associated with the intense reinforcement induced by the drug. These previously neutral stimuli acquire several properties: their appearance can induce craving, and they can become conditioned positive reinforcers of continued use. Thus, if an addicted individual encounters one of these drug cues, a craving for the associated drug may reappear. For example, anti-drug agencies previously used posters with images of drug paraphernalia as an attempt to show the dangers of drug use. However, such posters are no longer used because of the effects of incentive salience in causing relapse upon sight of the stimuli illustrated in the posters.\n\nIn drug dependent individuals, negative reinforcement occurs when a drug is self-administered in order to alleviate or \"escape\" the symptoms of physical dependence (e.g., tremors and sweating) and/or psychological dependence (e.g., anhedonia, restlessness, irritability, and anxiety) that arise during the state of drug withdrawal.\n\nAnimal trainers and pet owners were applying the principles and practices of operant conditioning long before these ideas were named and studied, and animal training still provides one of the clearest and most convincing examples of operant control. Of the concepts and procedures described in this article, a few of the most salient are the following: \n(a) availability of primary reinforcement (e.g. a bag of dog yummies); \n(b) the use of secondary reinforcement, (e.g. sounding a clicker immediately after a desired response, then giving yummy); \n(c) contingency, assuring that reinforcement (e.g. the clicker) follows the desired behavior and not something else; \n(d) shaping, as in gradually getting a dog to jump higher and higher; \n(e) intermittent reinforcement, as in gradually reducing the frequency of reinforcement to induce persistent behavior without satiation; \n(f) chaining, where a complex behavior is gradually constructed from smaller units.\n\nExample of animal training from Seaworld related on Operant conditioning \nAnimal training has effects on positive reinforcement and negative reinforcement. Schedules of reinforcements may play a big role on the animal training case.\n\nProviding positive reinforcement for appropriate child behaviors is a major focus of parent management training. Typically, parents learn to reward appropriate behavior through social rewards (such as praise, smiles, and hugs) as well as concrete rewards (such as stickers or points towards a larger reward as part of an incentive system created collaboratively with the child). In addition, parents learn to select simple behaviors as an initial focus and reward each of the small steps that their child achieves towards reaching a larger goal (this concept is called \"successive approximations\").\n\nBoth psychologists and economists have become interested in applying operant concepts and findings to the behavior of humans in the marketplace. An example \nis the analysis of consumer demand, as indexed by the amount of a commodity that is purchased. In economics, the degree to which price influences consumption is called \"the price elasticity of demand.\" Certain commodities are more elastic than others; for example, a change in price of certain foods may have a large effect on the amount bought, while gasoline and other essentials may be less affected by price changes. In terms of operant analysis, such effects may be interpreted in terms of motivations of consumers and the relative value of the commodities as reinforcers.\n\nAs stated earlier in this article, a variable ratio schedule yields reinforcement after the emission of an unpredictable number of responses. This schedule typically generates rapid, persistent responding. Slot machines pay off on a variable ratio schedule, and they produce just this sort of persistent lever-pulling behavior in gamblers. The variable ratio payoff from slot machines and other forms of gambling has often been cited as a factor underlying gambling addiction.\n\nNudge theory (or nudge) is a concept in behavioural science, political theory and economics which argues that indirect suggestions to try to achieve non-forced compliance can influence the motives, incentives and decision making of groups and individuals, at least as effectively – if not more effectively – than direct instruction, legislation, or enforcement.\n\nThe concept of praise as a means of behavioral reinforcement is rooted in B.F. Skinner's model of operant conditioning. Through this lens, praise has been viewed as a means of positive reinforcement, wherein an observed behavior is made more likely to occur by contingently praising said behavior. Hundreds of studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of praise in promoting positive behaviors, notably in the study of teacher and parent use of praise on child in promoting improved behavior and academic performance, but also in the study of work performance. Praise has also been demonstrated to reinforce positive behaviors in non-praised adjacent individuals (such as a classmate of the praise recipient) through vicarious reinforcement. Praise may be more or less effective in changing behavior depending on its form, content and delivery. In order for praise to effect positive behavior change, it must be contingent on the positive behavior (i.e., only administered after the targeted behavior is enacted), must specify the particulars of the behavior that is to be reinforced, and must be delivered sincerely and credibly.\n\nAcknowledging the effect of praise as a positive reinforcement strategy, numerous behavioral and cognitive behavioral interventions have incorporated the use of praise in their protocols. The strategic use of praise is recognized as an evidence-based practice in both classroom management and parenting training interventions, though praise is often subsumed in intervention research into a larger category of positive reinforcement, which includes strategies such as strategic attention and behavioral rewards.\n\nSeveral studies have been done on the effect cognitive-behavioral therapy and operant-behavioral therapy have on different medical conditions. When patients developed cognitive and behavioral techniques that changed their behaviors, attitudes, and emotions; their pain severity decreased. The results of these studies showed an influence of cognitions on pain perception and impact presented explained the general efficacy of Cognitive-Behavioral therapy (CBT) and Operant-Behavioral therapy (OBT).\n\nBraiker identified the following ways that manipulators control their victims:\n\nTraumatic bonding occurs as the result of ongoing cycles of abuse in which the intermittent reinforcement of reward and punishment creates powerful emotional bonds that are resistant to change.\n\nThe other source indicated that \n\n'The necessary conditions for traumatic bonding are that one person must dominate the other and that the level of abuse chronically spikes and then subsides. The relationship is characterized by periods of permissive, compassionate, and even affectionate behavior from the dominant person, punctuated by intermittent episodes of intense abuse. To maintain the upper hand, the victimizer manipulates the behavior of the victim and limits the victim's options so as to perpetuate the power imbalance. Any threat to the balance of dominance and submission may be met with an escalating cycle of punishment ranging from seething intimidation to intensely violent outbursts. The victimizer also isolates the victim from other sources of support, which reduces the likelihood of detection and intervention, impairs the victim's ability to receive countervailing self-referent feedback, and strengthens the sense of unilateral dependency...The traumatic effects of these abusive relationships may include the impairment of the victim's capacity for accurate self-appraisal, leading to a sense of personal inadequacy and a subordinate sense of dependence upon the dominating person. Victims also may encounter a variety of unpleasant social and legal consequences of their emotional and behavioral affiliation with someone who perpetrated aggressive acts, even if they themselves were the recipients of the aggression. '.\n\nHuman beings have an innate resistance to killing and are reluctant to act in a direct, aggressive way towards members of their own species, even to save life.  This resistance to killing has caused infantry to be remarkably inefficient throughout the history of military warfare.\n\nThis phenomenon was not understood until S.L.A. Marshall (Brigadier General and military historian) undertook interview studies of WWII infantry immediately following combat engagement. Marshall's well-known and controversial book, Men Against Fire, revealed that only 15% of soldiers fired their rifles with the purpose of killing in combat. Following acceptance of Marshall's research by the US Army in 1946, the Human Resources Research Office of the US Army began implementing new training protocols which resemble operant conditioning methods.  Subsequent applications of such methods increased the percentage of soldiers able to kill to around 50% in Korea and over 90% in Vietnam. Revolutions in training included replacing traditional pop-up firing ranges with three-dimensional, man-shaped, pop-up targets which collapsed when hit.  This provided immediate feedback and acted as positive reinforcement for a soldier's behavior. Other improvements to military training methods have included the timed firing course; more realistic training; high repetitions; praise from superiors; marksmanship rewards; and group recognition. Negative reinforcement includes peer accountability or the requirement to retake courses.  Modern military training conditions mid-brain response to combat pressure by closely simulating actual combat, using mainly Pavlovian Classical Conditioning and Skinnerian operant Conditioning (both forms of Behaviorism).Modern marksmanship training is such an excellent example of behaviorism that it has been used for years in the introductory psychology course taught to all cadets at the US Military Academy at West Point as a classic example of operant conditioning. In the 1980s, during a visit to West Point, B.F. Skinner identified modern military marksmanship training as a near-perfect application of operant conditioning.Lt. Col. Dave Grossman states about operant conditioning and US Military training that:It is entirely possible that no one intentionally sat down to use operant conditioning or behavior modification techniques to train soldiers in this area…But from the standpoint of a psychologist who is also a historian and a career soldier, it has become increasingly obvious to me that this is exactly what has been achieved.In his book, On Killing: The Psychological Cost of Learning to Kill in War and Society, Grossman overviews the main factors influencing individual acts of aggression as:\n\n\nPsychological distancing includes physical distance, dehumanizing the enemy (including through propaganda), and the impersonal use of technology such as night vision, drones, and airstrikes.  Modern conditioning techniques have had parallel effects on law enforcement firing rates.\n\nThe majority of video games are designed around a compulsion loop, adding a type of positive reinforcement through a variable rate schedule to keep the player playing. This can lead to the pathology of video game addiction.\nAs part of a trend in the monetization of video games during the 2010s, some games offered loot boxes as rewards or as items purchasable by real world funds. Boxes contains a random selection of in-game items. The practice has been tied to the same methods that slot machines and other gambling devices dole out rewards, as it follows a variable rate schedule. While the general perception that loot boxes are a form of gambling, the practice is only classified as such in a few countries. However, methods to use those items as virtual currency for online gambling or trading for real world money has created a skin gambling market that is under legal evaluation.\n\nAshforth discussed potentially destructive sides of leadership and identified what he referred to as petty tyrants: leaders who exercise a tyrannical style of management, resulting in a climate of fear in the workplace. Partial or intermittent negative reinforcement can create an effective climate of fear and doubt. When employees get the sense that bullies are tolerated, a climate of fear may be the result.\n\nIndividual differences in sensitivity to reward, punishment, and motivation have been studied under the premises of reinforcement sensitivity theory and have also been applied to workplace performance.\n\nOne of the many reasons proposed for the dramatic costs associated with healthcare is the practice of defensive medicine. Prabhu reviews the article by Cole and discusses how the responses of two groups of neurosurgeons are classic operant behavior. One group practice in a state with restrictions on medical lawsuits and the other group with no restrictions. The group of neurosurgeons were queried anonymously on their practice patterns. The physicians changed their practice in response to a negative feedback (fear from lawsuit) in the group that practiced in a state with no restrictions on medical lawsuits.\n\n"}
{"id": "8345451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8345451", "title": "Poor Arnold's Almanac", "text": "Poor Arnold's Almanac\n\nPoor Arnold's Alamanac was a newspaper comic strip by Arnold Roth. Each installment covered a single subject, with Roth devising gags on such topics as baseball, dogs, commuting, elephants, ice cream, smoking and the telephone. \n\nRoth wrote and drew \"Poor Arnold's Almanac\" from 1959 to 1961 and again from 1989 to 1990. Roth initially created a color Sunday comic strip for the New York Herald Tribune Syndicate, and nearly three decades later, it was revived for the Creators Syndicate as both a daily and a Sunday feature. Roth recalled:\nJohn Updike did the introduction when Fantagraphics Books published a book of Roth's strip in 1998. Updike later reprinted that essay in his collection \"Due Considerations\" (2007). “All cartoonists are geniuses, but Arnold Roth is especially so,” wrote Updike in his introduction.\n"}
{"id": "5470216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5470216", "title": "Richard Powers (dance historian)", "text": "Richard Powers (dance historian)\n\nRichard Powers is an expert in American social dance, noted for his choreographies for dozens of stage productions and films, and his workshops in Paris, Rome, Prague, London, Venice, Geneva, St. Petersburg and Tokyo as well as across the U.S. and Canada. He has been researching and reconstructing historic social dances for twenty-five years and is currently a full-time instructor at Stanford University Dance Division. He teaches a variety of social dance history and practicum classes for the dance division of the Stanford University Drama Department. He joined the Dance Faculty in 1992 and serves as a faculty liaison to the Friends of Dance at Stanford organization.\n\nRichard co-founded the Flying Cloud Academy of Vintage Dance (1981) to produce large-scale monthly recreations of Victorian and Ragtime Balls. Formed the Flying Cloud Troupe, a 30-member performing company (1982) and co-founded the supporting Fleeting Moments Waltz & Quickstep Orchestra.\n\nRichard started and directed the Stanford Vintage Dance Ensemble (1992) and serves as an advisor and choreographer for the Swingtime Dance Troupe.\n\nPowers was selected by the Centennial Issue of \"Stanford Magazine\" as one of Stanford University's most notable graduates of its first century and was awarded the Lloyd W. Dinkelspiel Award for distinctive and exceptional contributions to education at Stanford University (1999).\n\nRecipient of the Post-Corbett Award, Cincinnati's foremost arts recognition (1992).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26656068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26656068", "title": "Ronald Brunskill", "text": "Ronald Brunskill\n\nRonald William Brunskill OBE (3 January 1929 – 9 October 2015) was an English academic who was Reader in Architecture at the University of Manchester. He was an authority on the history of architecture and particularly on British vernacular architecture. \n\nHe was born in Lowton and attended Bury High School, before studying architecture under Reginald Cordingley at the University of Manchester. After a two-year stint with the British Army, Brunskill was appointed to a London County Council commission of architects. He left that position to teach at his alma mater, then spent a year at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as a Commonwealth Fund fellow. He joined Williams Deacon's Bank in 1957, and oversaw the maintenance of 250 branch offices, designing twenty new buildings. Brunskill returned to Manchester as reader in 1960.\n\nBrunskill contributed significantly to assessing the date, extent and impact of the Great Rebuilding of England. Brunskill accepted that for much of England W. G. Hoskins's thesis that the Great Rebuilding spanned the period from 1570 to 1640. But Brunskill contended that the period varied both by region and by social class: starting in South East England and among the higher-income social classes, and then spreading both geographically west and north and socially to lower-income classes.\n\nIn 1990 Brunskill was awarded an OBE for services to conservation. He was married to Miriam Allsopp, with whom he had two daughters, from 1960 until his death in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "48664943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48664943", "title": "S. P. Nimbalkar", "text": "S. P. Nimbalkar\n\nSadashiv Prahlad Nimbalkar is an Indian academic, author, Yoga guru and the founder of \"Yoga Vidya Niketan\" (YVN), a Mumbai-based Yoga institute, promoting the practice of Yoga. A former physical education instructor and a vice principal of a junior college, Nimbalkar practiced Yoga under renowned teacher, Swami Kuvalayananda, one of the pioneers of Yoga research and the founder of \"Kaivalyadhama\" Yoga Institute. Yoga Vidya Niketan, the institute Nimbalkar founded, offers various courses such as Diploma in Yogic Science, Teachers Training Courses, Diploma in Yoga Therapy and Diploma in Natural Living and Naturopathy, for students and teachers.\n\nNimbalkar has written several articles and three books, \"Aarogyasathi Yoga\", \"Pranayama\" and \"Swasthya Ke Liye Yoga\" He is a member of the Advisory Board of the \"Brihan Maharashtra Yoga Parishad\" and has delivered several practice sessions in India and the US. The Government of India awarded him the fourth highest civilian honour of the Padma Shri, in 2004, for his contributions towards popularizing Yoga.\n"}
{"id": "15800540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15800540", "title": "SABIS", "text": "SABIS\n\nSABIS is an education management organization that operates schools and licenses a proprietary education program. It is associated as licensor or operator with schools in 20 countries, including one in Europe.\n\nIn 2015, SABIS managed charter schools in the United States enrolling 6,332 students on a \"vendor operated school\" basis.\n\nIn 1886 Reverend Tanios Saad and Louisa Proctor founded the International School of Choueifat in Choueifat, a village near Beirut, Lebanon. The school was initially for girls but later became co-educational.\n\nThe International School of Choueifat embarked upon an expansion program outside Lebanon in the mid-1970s that has since grown to include schools in 20 countries on five continents. The company is structured in three corporations headquartered in the U.S., Lebanon, and the U.A.E.\n\nSABIS Educational Systems, Inc. of Eden Prairie, Minnesota was established in 1985 and licenses the SABIS Educational System in North America, South America, and Europe. In 1995 SABIS was contracted to operate the SABIS International Charter School (SICS) in Springfield, Massachusetts, a public charter school. In 2014, the International Academy of Trenton was founded as a SABIS charter school. As of 2016 SABIS operates 15 schools in the United States, comprising twelve charter schools, two licensed schools and one private school, The International School of Minnesota. It also has several branches in the Middle East with 12 in the United Arab Emirates alone (and counting) and other schools in Qatar, Oman, Egypt and so on. It also has several sister schools in Europe including a boarding school in Bath, England as well as a school in Romania and another in Germany, it has even extended itself further to India and Pakistan and proves to be one of the more difficult educational systems in those respective countries. Although the SABIS system is slightly different in each region depending on the management. The toughest proves to be the education system in the GCC where high school students can be subjected to a peak of 16 exams per week.\n\nIn 1998, SABIS established the SABIS Foxborough Regional School. The company was released from its management contract in 2007 for curricula non-compliant with Massachusetts charter law.\n\nIn January 2018, SABIS' charter for the International Academy of Trenton Charter School was revoked by the state of New Jersey for failure to meet minimum standards.\n\nA student led society called the Student Life Organization is used in SABIS schools. SLO is usually led by a Student Life Coordinator. There are student discipline prefects during the SLO period. They are led by a Head Prefect.\n\nThe Student Life Organization, SLO, or Student Life is a SABIS educational approach used for students. It provides development of student's academic, managerial, organizational, and leadership skills. Some academic-based activities include student tutoring, planning school events, organizing community service projects, and being involved in the school newspaper and yearbook. SLO points are also awarded to students who volunteer to help in the SLO and these points help the students get stronger recommendations for students.\n"}
{"id": "3122399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3122399", "title": "SWCHA", "text": "SWCHA\n\nSWCHA is a homeschool sports organization in Southeast Wisconsin; hence the name: Southeast Wisconsin Christian Homeschool Athletics.\n\n"}
{"id": "8832358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8832358", "title": "Sip-and-puff", "text": "Sip-and-puff\n\nSip-and-puff or sip 'n' puff (SNP) is assistive technology used to send signals to a device using air pressure by \"sipping\" (inhaling) or \"puffing\" (exhaling) on a straw, tube or \"wand.\" It is primarily used by people who do not have the use of their hands. It is commonly used to control a motorized wheelchair by quadriplegics with very high injury to their spinal cord or people with ALS.\n\nDevices that use SNP technology require specific amounts of air pressure to be \"sipped\" or \"puffed\" by the user. These amounts of pressure are typically denoted as a hard sip/hard puff or soft sip/soft puff, however other terminologies might exist. Note that the words \"hard\" and \"soft\" are relative to the user and depend on their breathing abilities. Typically, air pressure levels pertaining to hard sips/puffs and soft sips/puffs are set through an initial calibration of the pressure sensor completed before the user starts to use their SNP device. With the assistance of an aid or technician, the user will program the SNP device to recognize their body's ability to produce hard sips/puffs and soft sips/puffs. Once this calibration process is complete, the SNP device will only recognize the user specific sips and puffs that have been saved into the SNP device.\n\nTypical applications of Sip-and-Puff devices are for control of a motorized wheelchair. Control typically consists of four different inputs from the user. An initial hard puff will enable the wheelchair to move forward, while a hard sip will stop the wheelchair. Conversely, an initial hard sip will enable the wheelchair to move backward, while a hard puff will stop the wheelchair. A continuous soft sip or soft puff will enable the wheelchair to move left or right respectively depending on how long the user blows into the tube, straw or \"wand\".\n\nThe mouth-controlled input provide users a simple and effective way to control mouse movement. Movement and operation of this joystick is similar to that of a mouth stick. Mouse button clicking is accomplished with the help of sips or puffs function of the joystick.\n\nA sip-and-puff input device combined with computer accessibility software means many keyboard-accessible programs can be used with this device.\n\n"}
{"id": "5704308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5704308", "title": "Sociology of education", "text": "Sociology of education\n\nThe sociology of education is the study of how public institutions and individual experiences affect education and its outcomes. It is mostly concerned with the public schooling systems of modern industrial societies, including the expansion of higher, further, adult, and continuing education.\n\nEducation is seen as a fundamentally optimistic human endeavour characterised by aspirations for progress and betterment. It is understood by many to be a means of overcoming handicaps, achieving greater equality, and acquiring wealth and social status. Education is perceived as a place where children can develop according to their unique needs and potential. It is also perceived as one of the best means of achieving greater social equality. Many would say that the purpose of education should be to develop every individual to their full potential, and give them a chance to achieve as much in life as their natural abilities allow (meritocracy). Few would argue that any education system accomplishes this goal perfectly. Some take a particularly critical view, arguing that the education system is designed with the intention of causing the social reproduction of inequality.\n\nSystematic sociology of education began with the work of Émile Durkheim (1858–1917) on moral education as a basis for organic solidarity, and with studies by Max Weber (1864–1920) on the Chinese literati as an instrument of political control. After World War II, however, the subject received renewed interest around the world: from technological functionalism in the US, egalitarian reform of opportunity in Europe, and human-capital theory in economics. These all implied that, with industrialization, the need for a technologically skilled labour force undermines class distinctions and other ascriptive systems of stratification, and that education promotes social mobility. However, statistical and field research across numerous societies showed a persistent link between an individual's social class and achievement, and suggested that education could only achieve limited social mobility. Sociological studies showed how schooling patterns reflected, rather than challenged, class stratification and racial and sexual discrimination. After the general collapse of functionalism from the late 1960s onwards, the idea of education as an unmitigated good was even more profoundly challenged. Neo-Marxists argued that school education simply produced a docile labour force essential to late-capitalist class relations.\n\nThe sociology of education contains a number of theories. Some of the main theories are presented below.\n\nThe Political Arithmetic tradition within the sociology of education began with Hogben (1938) and denotes a tradition of politically critical quantitative research dealing with social inequalities, especially those generated by social stratification (Heath 2000). Important works in this tradition have been (Glass 1954), (Floud, et al. 1956) and (Halsey, et al. 1980). All of these works were concerned with the way in which school structures were implicated in social class inequalities in Britain. More recent work in this tradition has broadened its focus to include gender, ethnic differentials and international differences. While researchers in this tradition have engaged with sociological theories such as Rational Choice Theory and Cultural Reproduction Theory, the political arithmetic tradition has tended to remain rather sceptical of 'grand theory' and very much concerned with empirical evidence and social policy. The political arithmetic tradition was attacked by the 'New Sociology of Education' of the 1970s which rejected quantitative research methods. This heralded a period of methodological division within the sociology of education. However, the political arithmetic tradition, while rooted in quantitative methods, has increasingly engaged with mixed methods approaches.\n\nStructural functionalists believe that society leans towards social equilibrium and social order. They see society like a human body, in which institutions such as education are like important organs that keep the society/body healthy and well.\n\nSocial health means the same as social order, and is guaranteed when nearly everyone accepts the general moral values of their society. Hence structural functionalists believe the aim of key institutions, such as education, is to socialize children and teenagers. Socialization is the process by which the new generation learns the knowledge, attitudes and values that they will need as productive citizens. Although this aim is stated in the formal curriculum, it is mainly achieved through the hidden curriculum, a subtler, but nonetheless powerful, indoctrination of the norms and values of the wider society. Students learn these values because their behavior at school is regulated (Durkheim in ) until they gradually internalize and accept them.\n\nEducation must also perform another function: As various jobs become vacant, they must be filled with the appropriate people. Therefore, the other purpose of education is to sort and rank individuals for placement in the labor market [Munro, 1997]. Those with high achievement will be trained for the most important jobs and in reward, be given the highest incomes. Those who achieve the least, will be given the least demanding (intellectually at any rate, if not physically) jobs, and hence the least income.\n\nAccording to Sennet and Cobb however, \"to believe that ability alone decides who is rewarded is to be deceived\". Meighan agrees, stating that large numbers of capable students from working-class backgrounds fail to achieve satisfactory standards in school and therefore fail to obtain the status they deserve. Jacob believes this is because the middle class cultural experiences that are provided at school may be contrary to the experiences working-class children receive at home. In other words, working class children are not adequately prepared to cope at school. They are therefore \"cooled out\" from school with the least qualifications, hence they get the least desirable jobs, and so remain working class. Sargent confirms this cycle, arguing that schooling supports continuity, which in turn supports social order. Talcott Parsons believed that this process, whereby some students were identified and labelled educational failures, \"was a necessary activity which one part of the social system, education, performed for the whole\". Yet the structural functionalist perspective maintains that this social order, this continuity, is what most people desire.\n\nThe perspective of conflict theory, contrary to the structural functionalist perspective, believes that society is full of vying social groups with different aspirations, different access to life chances and gain different social rewards. Relations in society, in this view, are mainly based on exploitation, oppression, domination and subordination. Many teachers assume that students will have particular middle class experiences at home, and for some children this assumption isn't necessarily true. Some children are expected to help their parents after school and carry considerable domestic responsibilities in their often single-parent home. The demands of this domestic labour often make it difficult for them to find time to do all their homework and thus affects their academic performance.\n\nWhere teachers have softened the formality of regular study and integrated student's preferred working methods into the curriculum, they noted that particular students displayed strengths they had not been aware of before. However few teachers deviate from the traditional curriculum, and the curriculum conveys what constitutes knowledge as determined by the state - and those in power [Young in ]. This knowledge isn't very meaningful to many of the students, who see it as pointless. Wilson & Wyn state that the students realise there is little or no direct link between the subjects they are doing and their perceived future in the labour market. Anti-school values displayed by these children are often derived from their consciousness of their real interests. Sargent believes that for working-class students, striving to succeed and absorbing the school's middle class values, are accepting their inferior social position as much as if they were determined to fail. Fitzgerald states that \"irrespective of their academic ability or desire to learn, students from poor families have relatively little chance of securing success\". On the other hand, for middle and especially upper-class children, maintaining their superior position in society requires little effort. The federal government subsidises 'independent' private schools enabling the rich to obtain 'good education' by paying for it. With this 'good education', rich children perform better, achieve higher and obtain greater rewards. In this way, the continuation of privilege and wealth for the elite is made possible \"in continuum\".\n\nConflict theorists believe this social reproduction continues to occur because the whole education system is overlain with ideology provided by the dominant group. In effect, they perpetuate the myth that education is available to all to provide a means of achieving wealth and status. Anyone who fails to achieve this goal, according to the myth, has only themselves to blame. Wright agrees, stating that \"the effect of the myth is to…stop them from seeing that their personal troubles are part of major social issues\". The duplicity is so successful that many parents endure appalling jobs for many years, believing that this sacrifice will enable their children to have opportunities in life that they did not have themselves. These people who are poor and disadvantaged are victims of a societal confidence trick. They have been encouraged to believe that a major goal of schooling is to strengthen equality while, in reality, schools reflect society's intention to maintain the previous unequal distribution of status and power [Fitzgerald, cited in ].\n\nThis perspective has been criticised as deterministic and pessimistic, while there is some evidence for social mobility among disadvantaged students.\n\nIt should be recognised however that it is a model, an aspect of reality which is an important part of the picture.\n\nThis theory of social reproduction has been significantly theorised by Pierre Bourdieu. However Bourdieu as a social theorist has always been concerned with the dichotomy between the objective and subjective, or to put it another way, between structure and agency. Bourdieu has therefore built his theoretical framework around the important concepts of habitus, field and cultural capital. These concepts are based on the idea that objective structures determine individuals' chances, through the mechanism of the habitus, where individuals internalise these structures. However, the habitus is also formed by, for example, an individual's position in various fields, their family and their everyday experiences. Therefore, one's class position does not determine one's life chances, although it does play an important part, alongside other factors.\n\nBourdieu used the idea of cultural capital to explore the differences in outcomes for students from different classes in the French educational system. He explored the tension between the conservative reproduction and the innovative production of knowledge and experience. He found that this tension is intensified by considerations of which particular cultural past and present is to be conserved and reproduced in schools. Bourdieu argues that it is the culture of the dominant groups, and therefore their cultural capital, which is embodied in schools, and that this leads to social reproduction.\n\nThe cultural capital of the dominant group, in the form of practices and relation to culture, is assumed by the school to be the natural and only proper type of cultural capital and is therefore legitimated. It demands \"uniformly of all its students that they should have what it does not give\" [Bourdieu ]. This legitimate cultural capital allows students who possess it to gain educational capital in the form of qualifications. Those lower-class students are therefore disadvantaged. To gain qualifications they must acquire legitimate cultural capital, by exchanging their own (usually working-class) cultural capital. This exchange is not a straightforward one, due to the class ethos of the lower-class students. Class ethos is described as the particular dispositions towards, and subjective expectations of, school and culture. It is in part determined by the objective chances of that class. This means that not only do children find success harder in school due to the fact that they must learn a new way of 'being', or relating to the world, and especially, a new way of relating to and using language, but they must also act against their instincts and expectations. The subjective expectations influenced by the objective structures found in the school, perpetuate social reproduction by encouraging less-privileged students to eliminate themselves from the system, so that fewer and fewer are to be found as one journeys through the levels of the system. The process of social reproduction is neither perfect nor complete, but still, only a small number of less-privileged students achieve success. For the majority of these students who do succeed at school, they have had to internalise the values of the dominant classes and use them as their own, to the detriment of their original habitus and cultural values.\n\nTherefore, Bourdieu's perspective reveals how objective structures play an important role in determining individual achievement in school, but allows for the exercise of an individual's agency to overcome these barriers, although this choice is not without its penalties.\n\nIdentity\n\nDrawing on Bourdieu's ideas, Fuller (2009) adds to the theoretical understanding of structure and agency by considering how young people shape their educational identity and how this identity is often the result of messages reflected at them, for example, through grades, setting and gendered expectations. Social location is considered important but its role is complex. Her work considered the importance of understanding the ways that individuals identify within an academic discourse, a discourse that typically situates young people dichotomously; as those who will achieve and those that will not. Understanding the importance of areas such as self-efficacy, confidence and resilience in shaping educational identity at the level of agent and subsequently, educational attainment and aspirations, has been central to her most recent work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1696554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1696554", "title": "Sunbeams School", "text": "Sunbeams School\n\nSunbeams School is a private school located in Dhaka, Bangladesh. It was one of the first schools to establish English as the medium of instruction in Bangladesh. It was founded by Shakirin Ehsan in 1978 and was purchased by the business magnate Niloufer Manzur in 1989. Until 1994 the school provided education through Grade 5, but Sunbeams is now running 'A' (Advanced) Level exams as well. The school's mascot is the Rising Sun.\n\nSunbeams school has two campuses, one is located in the residential area of Dhanmondi and conducts classes from Playgroup to Class 4. The other campus is located in Uttara and has classes from Playgroup to 'A' Levels.\n\nSunbeams has two branches:\n\nThe Uttara campus is the main campus, containing the Senior Section and administrative buildings. It is the larger of the two campuses, built in 2008, and consists of one building and one football field and both an indoor and outdoor basketball court. The Uttara campus has a canteen, an auditorium, a science laboratory and many other things which the junior (Dhanmondi) campus does not.\n\nSunbeams has two joint soccer fields which are ideal for tournament matches. There is one cricket pitch and an outdoor plus an indoor basketball court. There are also two tables for playing table tennis.There is also one indoor multipurpose court.\n\nThe senior section has three laboratories: one for chemistry, one for physics and the other for computer science.\n\nAlong with studies, the students can do many other things. There is a range of different curriculum such as arts and crafts, sports, chess, scrabble, vocal music, guitar, quiz, cooking, karate, drama, literature etc.\n"}
{"id": "40908757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40908757", "title": "Ticasuk Brown", "text": "Ticasuk Brown\n\nTicasuk Brown (1904–1982) was an Iñupiaq educator, poet and writer. She was the recipient of a Presidential Commission and was the first Native American to have a school named after her in Fairbanks, Alaska. In 2009, she was placed in the Alaska Women's Hall of Fame.\n\nEmily Ticasuk Ivanoff Brown was born in 1904 in Unalakleet, Alaska. Her name, Ticasuk, means \"where the four winds gather their treasures from all parts of the world...the greatest which is knowledge.\" Her grandfather was Russian, named Sergei Ivanoff, and her grandmother was Yupik, named Chikuk. Brown's parents were Stephen Ivanoff and Malquay. She attended elementary school in Shaktoolik, Alaska, which was a village co-founded by her father. After high school, she became a certified teacher in Oregon. She started teaching in Kotzebue, Alaska. She moved to Washington to study nursing and got married.\n\nThe couple moved back to Alaska where Brown started teaching, but her husband died two years into their marriage. She went back to college in 1959, obtaining two Bachelor of Arts at the University of Alaska in Fairbanks. She earned her masters in 1974 with a thesis titled \"Grandfather of Unalakleet\". Her thesis was republished as \"The Roots of Ticasuk: An Eskimo Woman's Family Story\", in 1981. Brown created a curriculum around the Inupiaq language.\n\nShe was given a Presidential Commission by Richard Nixon. She worked at the University of Alaska Fairbanks, where she worked on an Iñupiaq language encyclopedia until she died in 1982 in Fairbanks, Alaska. Just before her death, she was set to receive an honorary doctorate from the University of Alaska Fairbanks.\n\nThe learning center at the Northwest Community College in Nome, Alaska is dedicated to her. There is an Emily Ivanoff Ticasuk Brown Award for Human Rights award named after her and which is awarded by the National Education Association of Alaska. Ticasuk Brown Elementary School was the first school in Fairbanks, Alaska to be named after a Native American person. The school opened in September 1987. The name was chosen out of 43 submissions in a quest to name the school. She was placed in the Alaska Women's Hall of Fame in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "173719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173719", "title": "Tracy Kidder", "text": "Tracy Kidder\n\nJohn Tracy Kidder (born November 12, 1945) is an American writer of nonfiction books. He received the Pulitzer Prize for his \"The Soul of a New Machine\" (1981), about the creation of a new computer at Data General Corporation. He has received praise and awards for other works, including his biography of Paul Farmer, a doctor and anthropologist, titled \"Mountains Beyond Mountains\" (2003).\n\nKidder is considered a literary journalist because of the strong story line and personal voice in his writing. He has cited as his writing influences John McPhee, A. J. Liebling, and George Orwell. In a 1984 interview he said, \"McPhee has been my model. He's the most elegant of all the journalists writing today, I think.\"\n\nKidder wrote in a 1994 essay, \"In fiction, believability may have nothing to do with reality or even plausibility. It has everything to do with those things in nonfiction. I think that the nonfiction writer's fundamental job is to make what is true believable.\"\n\nJohn Tracy Kidder was born November 12, 1945, in New York City.\nHe graduated from Phillips Academy in 1963.\nHe attended Harvard College, originally majoring in political science, but switching to English after taking a course in creative writing from Robert Fitzgerald. He received an AB degree from Harvard in 1967.\n\nKidder served in the United States Army as a first lieutenant, Military Intelligence, Vietnam, from 1967 to 1969. After returning from Vietnam, he wrote for some time and was admitted to the Iowa Writers' Workshop. He received an MFA degree from the University of Iowa in 1974.\n\nKidder wrote his first book, \"The Road to Yuba City: a Journey into the Juan Corona Murders\", while at the University of Iowa. \"The Atlantic Monthly\" commissioned the work, and he continued writing as a freelancer for the magazine during the 1970s. \"The Road to Yuba City\" was a critical failure, and Kidder said in a 1995 interview that\n\nI can't say anything intelligent about that book, except that I learned never to write about a murder case. The whole experience was disgusting, so disgusting, in fact, that in 1981 I went to Doubleday and bought back the rights to the book. I don't want \"The Road to Yuba City\" to see the light of day again.\n\nKidder has said that, unlike many other writers, he was not much influenced by his Vietnam experience: \"Of course, whenever you're in an experience like Vietnam, it is bound to influence your work; it's inevitable, but I really don't think it greatly shaped me as a writer.\" His works for \"Atlantic Monthly\" include several essays and short stories about the Vietnam War, including \"The Death of Major Great\" (1974), \"Soldiers of Misfortune\" (1978), and \"In Quarantine\" (1980). Writing in 1997, David Bennett rated these three pieces \"among the finest reporting to come out of Vietnam.\"\n\nKidder's second book, \"The Soul of a New Machine\" (1981), was much more successful than his first. His account of the complex community and environment of programming and computer development won the Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction in 1982. He has continued to write nonfiction books and articles, and these have been well received by the critics. Kidder's 2009 book, \"Strength in What Remains,\" is a portrait of a man who survived the genocide in Burundi.\n\nHe has explored a wide range of topics through his books, \"House\" (1985), a \"biography\" of a couple having their first house built, and the people involved in the project; \"Among Schoolchildren\" (1989), set in an elementary-school classroom in Holyoke, Massachusetts and reflecting on US education through the lives of these 20 children and their teacher (these two books were both bestsellers); and \"Old Friends\" (1993), which explored the daily lives and personal growth of a pair of elderly men in a nursing home. His books have made \"Notable\" annual lists of \"The New York Times\" and received positive praise from critics, in addition to awards.\n\nIn fall 2010 Kidder was selected as the first A.M. Rosenthal Writer-in-Residence at the Harvard Kennedy School's Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy. At the center, he worked with his onetime editor at The Atlantic, Richard Todd, on a book about writing, titled \"Good Prose: The Art of Nonfiction.\" He lectured to students and did research to identify his next narrative subject.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18471869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18471869", "title": "Training ground (association football)", "text": "Training ground (association football)\n\nA training ground is an area where professional association football teams prepare for matches, with activities primarily concentrating on skills and fitness. They also sometimes form part of a club's youth system, as clubs consider it important to have good facilities to aid the development of young players.\n\nTraining grounds are usually separate from a team's stadium, as clubs use the facilities to avoid overusing the stadium's pitch. However, teams usually train inside the opposing team's stadium on the day before a European away game, both for the benefit of the media and to become familiar with the surface.\n\nThere have been several high-profile incidents, at training grounds, where players have been injured in disputes between teammates. Joey Barton was given a suspended prison sentence, on 1 July 2008, for an assault on teammate Ousmane Dabo on Manchester City's training ground and Andy Carroll broke teammate Steven Taylor's jaw in a fight.\n\n"}
{"id": "26308051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26308051", "title": "Umeå School of Architecture", "text": "Umeå School of Architecture\n\nUmeå School of Architecture (abbreviated UMA) was founded in 2009 as the fourth academic school in Sweden to provide a professional degree in architecture. It is part of Umeå University. Unlike the other Architectural Schools in Sweden, UMA has a spoken policy of sustainable development and integrated design, and aims to grow into \"an international laboratory of experimental architectural development.\" The Danish architect Peter Kjaer is appointed rector for the school.\n\nThe five-year architectural programme started in fall 2009 at provisionary premises in central Umeå, but could before fall 2010 move to a new building by Danish architect firm Henning Larsen Architects, close to the Umeå Institute of Design and the Umeå Academy of Fine Arts at the Umeå Arts Campus. Master's degree programs will start in fall 2010.\n\nThe School offers a five-year architecture programme leading to a Bachelor's degree (300 credits) – in Swedish\n\nThere are two Master's programmes in Sustainable Architecture Production and Immediate Architectural Intervention, leading to a Master's degree (120 credits) - in English\n\nOther Swedish architecture schools are hosted by The Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) in Stockholm, Chalmers in Gothenburg and Lund Institute of Technology.\n\n\n"}
