{"id": "54791341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54791341", "title": "Abdul Malik Afegbua", "text": "Abdul Malik Afegbua\n\nAlhaji Abdulmalik Asekomhe Afegbua (OBE) was a Nigerian King and the first Paramount Otaru of Okpella kingdom.\n"}
{"id": "43681495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43681495", "title": "Alesis Artificial Intelligence", "text": "Alesis Artificial Intelligence\n\nAlesis is an artificially intelligent computer system capable of answering questions posed in natural language, developed by Venture Coding; a small tech start-up based in Telford, Alesis's specific function is to assist users on their computers or out and about.\n\n"}
{"id": "58659043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58659043", "title": "Alessandra Codazzi", "text": "Alessandra Codazzi\n\nAlessandra Codazzi, called Sandra (11 November 1921 – 5 May 2010), was an Italian politician, trade union and partisan, Senator between 1976 and 1987.\n\nFirstborn of seven brothers and daughter of Colonel Alberto Codazzi, who was a descendant of Agostino Codazzi, geographer and national hero in Venezuela and Colombia. During the Second World War she was partisan, making the messenger for the partisan brigade of Catholic inspiration Brigate Fiamme Verdi hidden in the Reggio Apennines, taking the name of \"Rosario\" to avoid being captured by the Nazi-Fascists. Graduated in literature and philosophy at the Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, a pupil of Giuseppe Dossetti, she first entered the Azione Cattolica and shortly afterwards in the CISL of Giulio Pastore, where she attended the \"Long Course\" at the CISL Study Center in Florence with Professor Mario Romani. In the CISL she took care of women and workers' rights until she became national secretary of the textile category. In 1976 she was elected senator for the Christian Democrats until 1987.\n\nShe worked and had close relations with her colleagues Anna Gabriella Ceccatelli, Tina Anselmi and Nilde Iotti. She died in Rome on 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1660757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1660757", "title": "Animat", "text": "Animat\n\nAnimat (\"third-person indicative present of the Latin verb animō\"), meaning to \"animate, give or bring life\".\n\nAnimats are artificial animals, a contraction of animal-materials. The term includes physical robots and virtual simulations. Animat research, a subset of Artificial Life studies, has become rather popular since Rodney Brooks' seminal paper \"Intelligence without representation\". The word was coined by S.W. Wilson in 1985,\nin \"Knowledge growth in an artificial animal\", published in the first \"Proceedings\" \n\"of an International Conference on Genetic Algorithms and Their Applications\".\n\nAn example using the Animat model as proposed by Wilson is discussed at some length in chapter 9 of Stan Franklin's book, Artificial Minds. In this implementation, the animat is capable of independent learning about its environment through application and evolution of pattern-matching rules called \"taxons\".\n\nIn 2001 Thomas DeMarse performed studies on 'neurally controlled animat'. Every two years, the Society of Adaptive Behaviour meets and produces a proceedings on this topic. They also have a journal, \"Adaptive Behavior\".\n\nAlan H Goldstein has proposed that, because nanobiotechnology is in the process of creating real animal-materials, speculative use of this term should be discouraged and its application become purely phenomenological. Based on the Animat Test (contained in the reference \"I, Nanobot.\") any nonbiological material or entity that exhibits the minimum set of behaviors that define a life form is, de facto, an Animat. Goldstein's basic premise is that in the age of nanobiotechnology it is necessary to follow the chemistry and molecular engineering rather than watching for the emergence of some pre-conceived minimum level of 'intelligence' such as an artificial neural network capable of adaptive phenomena. Goldstein has cautioned that there is a serious disconnect between the fields of nanobiotechnology and A-life based on profound differences in scientific training, experimental systems, and the different sets of terminology (jargon) these two fields have produced. Nanobiotechnologists (really molecular engineers who work with both biological and nonbiological molecules) are generally not concerned with complex systems per se; even when they are building molecular interconnects between such systems, e.g. neuroelectronic splices. A-Life researchers mainly take a systems-level approach. The enormous transformative power of novel molecular engineering has the potential to create Animats, true nonbiological life forms, whose relatively simple behavior would not fit into most standard A-Life paradigms. As a result, Goldstein argues, the first Animats may come into being completely unrecognized by either scientific community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49358831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49358831", "title": "Catherine Beaulieu Bouvier Lamoureux", "text": "Catherine Beaulieu Bouvier Lamoureux\n\nCatherine Beaulieu Bouvier Lamoureux ( – 1918) was a Métis women living in the Northwest Territories. She was a founder and leader of the local Métis community.\n\nThe daughter of François Beaulieu II and Louise (or Catherine) St. Germain, she was born in the Salt River region near Fort Smith. In 1845, she was baptized into the Roman Catholic Church and attended the Grey Nuns school in St. Boniface. The Grey Nuns founded a hospital and school in Fort Providence in 1867 and she encouraged First Nations women to use their health care services. \n\nBeaulieu spoke several languages Chipewyan, Cree, Michif and Slavey. She is believed to be the source of the Chipewyan oral history recorded by Fathers Émile Petitot and Grouard. She also helped to preserve oral tradition for her own people.\n\nShe was married twice: first to Joseph Bouvier in 1852 - he died in 1877 - and then, in 1879, to Jean-Baptiste Lamoureux. She died at Fort Providence in 1918 after the death of her second husband earlier that year.\n\nDuring the winter, she often travelled the 150 miles between Fort Providence and Fort Rae; she also carried mail between the two communities.\n\nIn 2012, she was declared a Person of National Historic Significance by the Canadian government, the first woman in the Northwest Territories to receive that designation.\n"}
{"id": "56460749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56460749", "title": "Death horoscopes in Tibetan Buddhism", "text": "Death horoscopes in Tibetan Buddhism\n\nThe use of death horoscopes in Tibetan Buddhism is an old practice that still sees application today. There are several types of horoscopes used in this religion, including a birth horoscope, a life forecast, an annual horoscope, a marriage horoscope, and a death horoscope. When casting the death horoscope, Tibetan Buddhists place great importance on the corpse, especially within the first three days following its death. There are several purposes for a death horoscope, and carrying out this practice must be done carefully. Additionally, a death horoscope is intended as a loving act for the dead, and a precautionary measure for the family of the deceased. Many Tibetans believe that when a death occurs within the family, other family members’ lives are jeopardized, so this practice may be considered essential to both the living and dead. Tibetan Buddhists also believe that their deceased loved ones may spend a short period in hell to pay for sins in their past life.\n\nDeath horoscopes serve several purposes, including, determining the right time for disposing of the deceased’s body, understanding the presumed rebirth destination, and revealing how the deceased’s family can improve their rebirth. Additionally, the horoscope may reveal the past life of the dead and whether or not the death was well-timed. The horoscope also serves as a precautionary tool to reveal specific types of threats from demons and future attacks targeted at living family members. In fact, the lama conducts a preventative ceremony before the astrologer casts the death horoscope to prevent any of the eight classes of demonic spirits from harming the deceased. According to some, the chanting of mantras may combat the demons and ward off evil spirits, as well as help interpret the death chart. The death chart indicates who can have contact with the body, and whether certain household items must be removed. Lastly, the astrologer may be able to reveal who will facilitate the corpse’s disposal, including carrying, preparing, and cremating it.\n\nThe initial step in casting the death horoscope includes immediately informing all family and close friends of the death . The corpse is not to be touched or shifted from its position at the moment of death, and the family must wait for the lama or astrologer to arrive. The mourning families may offer a present or fee to the astrologer for the horoscope, to ensure a favorable outcome for the soul. The corpse remains inside the house until the astrologer concludes his calculation. Once the lama arrives, he may perform a religious ritual, known as a phowa (from Sanskrit), which is then followed by the astrologer casting the death horoscope. The lama removes all mourning family members from the death chamber, and closes all windows and doors. He then covers the corpse’s face with a white cloth, and sits down next to its head.\n\nHe is said to draw the remaining consciousness from the corpse through the top of the head. Then, he extracts some hairs from the corpse’s head to allow the soul to exit the body through the roots. He, or the astrologer, indicates whether there is any life remaining in the corpse. According to some, the corpse’s consciousness may linger from one life to another for 49 days. So, the lama reads the Tibetan book of the dead, Bardo Thodol, out loud to guide the corpse in its new life. It is important that the body remains undisturbed while the lama guides the spirit because any disruption could cause the soul to drift in an unnatural direction and be seized by a demon.\n\nOther monks may arrive as well, to provide blessings in preparation for the death horoscope. Offering-rites, at this time, are performed as a precautionary measure to ward off demons. The astrologer may then create a grid on the floor or on a sheet of paper, using only rice flour and black pebbles. He constructs the grid and the placement of the materials based on the instruction given in his astrological text. He then reads some of the texts from the astrological manual or a calendar. To calculate the death horoscope, the astrologer considers the time, date, year, and month of the death, and the constellation and phase of the moon. The birth year of the deceased, however, is typically considered the most important factor, because it indicates the deceased’s birth animal and trigram. Additionally, the body’s position at the final moment of death is essential for the direction the body should be removed and disposed of. The horoscope may also reveal the deceased’s last thoughts, and if the thoughts were negative or positive. In the event that they were negative, the family may be given the chance to create and transfer good karma to the deceased’s future life. Additionally, the horoscope specifies which actions by the family, will help the deceased in their rebirthed life.\n"}
{"id": "22328666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22328666", "title": "Death of Ian Tomlinson", "text": "Death of Ian Tomlinson\n\nIan Tomlinson (7 February 1962 – 1 April 2009) was a newspaper vendor who collapsed and died in the City of London after being struck by a police officer during the 2009 G-20 summit protests. After an inquest jury returned a verdict of unlawful killing, the officer, Simon Harwood, was prosecuted for manslaughter. He was found not guilty but was dismissed from the police service for gross misconduct.\n\nThe first post-mortem concluded that Tomlinson had suffered a heart attack, but a week later \"The Guardian\" published video of Harwood, a constable with London's Metropolitan Police Service, striking Tomlinson on the leg with a baton, then pushing him to the ground. Tomlinson was not a protester, and at the time he was struck was trying to make his way home through the police cordons. He walked away after the incident, but collapsed and died minutes later.\n\nAfter the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) began a criminal inquiry, further autopsies indicated that Tomlinson had died from internal bleeding caused by blunt force trauma to the abdomen, in association with cirrhosis of the liver. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) decided not to charge Harwood, because the disagreement between the first and later pathologists meant they could not show a causal link between the death and alleged assault. That position changed in 2011; after the verdict of unlawful killing, the CPS charged Harwood with manslaughter. He was acquitted in 2012 and dismissed from the service a few months later.\n\nTomlinson's death sparked a debate in the UK about the relationship between the police, media and public, and the independence of the IPCC. In response to the concerns, the Chief Inspector of Constabulary, Denis O'Connor, published a 150-page report in November 2009 that aimed to restore Britain's consent-based model of policing.\n\nTomlinson was born to Jim and Ann Tomlinson in Matlock, Derbyshire. He moved to London when he was 17 to work as a scaffolder. At the time of his death, at the age of 47, he was working casually as a vendor for the \"Evening Standard\", London's evening newspaper. Married twice with nine children, including stepchildren, Tomlinson had a history of alcoholism, as a result of which he had been living apart from his second wife, Julia, for 13 years, and had experienced long periods of homelessness. He had been staying since 2008 in the Lindsey Hotel, a shelter for the homeless on Lindsey Street, Smithfield, EC1. At the time of his death, he was walking across London's financial district in an effort to reach the Lindsey Hotel, his way hampered at several points by police lines. The route he took was his usual way home from a newspaper stand on Fish Street Hill outside Monument tube station, where he worked with a friend, Barry Smith.\n\nWith over 31,000 officers, the Metropolitan Police Service (the Met) is the largest police force in the United Kingdom, responsible for policing Greater London, except for the financial district, the City of London. The latter has its own force, the City of London Police. The Met's commissioner at the time was Sir Paul Stephenson; the City of London Police commissioner was Mike Bowron. Responsibility for supervising the Met falls to the Metropolitan Police Authority, chaired by the Mayor of London, at the time Boris Johnson.\n\nThe officer seen pushing Tomlinson was a constable with the Met's Territorial Support Group (TSG), identified by the \"U\" on their shoulder numbers. The TSG specializes in public-order policing, wearing military-style helmets, flame-retardant overalls, stab vests and balaclavas. Their operational commander at the time was Chief Superintendent Mick Johnson.\n\nThe Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) began to operate in 2004; its chair when Tomlinson died was Nick Hardwick. Created by the Police Reform Act 2002, the commission replaced the Police Complaints Authority (PCA) following public dissatisfaction with the latter's relationship with the police. Unlike the PCA, the IPCC operates independently of the Home Office, which regulates the police.\n\nThe G20 security operation, codenamed \"Operation Glencoe\", was a \"Benbow operation\", which meant the Met, City of London Police and the British Transport Police worked under one Gold commander, in this case Bob Broadhurst of the Met.\n\nThere were six protests on 1 April 2009: a security operation at ExCeL London, a Stop the War march, a Free Tibet protest outside the Chinese Embassy, a People & Planet protest, a Climate Camp protest, and a protest outside the Bank of England. Over 4,000 protesters were at the Climate Camp and the same number at the Bank of England. On 1 April over 5,500 police officers were deployed and the following day 2,800, at a cost of £7.2 million. Officers worked 14-hour shifts. They ended at midnight, slept on the floor of police stations, were not given a chance to eat, and were back on duty at 7 am. This was viewed as having contributed to the difficulties they faced.\n\nThe Bank of England protesters were held in place from 12.30 pm until 7.00 pm using a process police called \"containment\" and the media called \"kettling\"—corralling protesters into small spaces until the police dispersed them. At 7 pm senior officers decided that \"reasonable force\" could be used to disperse the protesters around the bank. Between 7:10 and 7:40 pm the crowd surged toward the police, missiles were thrown, and the police pushed back with their shields. Scuffles broke out and arrests were made. This was the situation Tomlinson wandered into as he tried to make his way home.\n\nSeveral newspapers published images of Tomlinson's first encounter with police that evening. According to Barry Smith, Tomlinson left the newspaper stand outside Monument Tube Station at around 7 pm. The \"Daily Mail\" published an image showing Tomlinson smoking a cigarette in front of a police van in Lombard Street. An eyewitness, IT worker Ross Hardy, said Tomlinson was drunk and refusing to move; a police van tried to nudge him out of the way, and when that didn't work he was moved by four riot officers. The newspaper published a second image of him apparently being pushed by the police. On 16 April \"The Guardian\" published three images of Tomlinson taken at the same time.\n\nTomlinson stayed on Lombard Street for another half hour, then made his way to King William Street, toward two lines of police cordons, where police had \"kettled\" thousands of protesters near the Bank of England. At 7:10 pm he doubled back on himself, walking up and down Change Alley where he encountered more cordons, and five minutes later was on Lombard Street again, crossed it, walked down Birchin Lane, and reached Cornhill at 7:10–7:15 pm.\n\nA few minutes later he was at the northern end of a pedestrian precinct, Royal Exchange Passage (formally called Royal Exchange Buildings), near the junction with Threadneedle Street, where a further police cordon stopped him from proceeding. He turned to walk south along Royal Exchange Passage instead, where, minutes before he arrived, officers had clashed with up to 25 protesters. Riot police from the Met's TSG, accompanied by City of London police dog handlers, had arrived there from the cordon in Threadneedle Street to help their colleagues.\n\nPolice officers followed Tomlinson as he walked along the street. He headed towards Threadneedle Street, but again ran into police cordons and doubled back on himself towards Cornhill. According to a CPS report, he was bitten on the leg by a police dog at 7:15 pm, when a dog handler tried to move him out of the way, but he appeared not to react to it.\n\nThe same group of officers approached Tomlinson outside a Montblanc store at the southern end of Royal Exchange Passage, near the junction with Cornhill. He was walking slowly with his hands in his pockets; according to an eyewitness, he was saying that he was trying to get home.\n\nThe first \"Guardian\" video shows one officer lunge at Tomlinson from behind, strike him across the legs with a baton and push his back, causing him to fall. On 8 April Channel 4 News released their own footage, which showed the officer's arm swing back to head height before bringing it down to hit Tomlinson on the legs with the baton. Another video obtained by \"The Guardian\" on 21 April shows Tomlinson standing by a bicycle rack, hands in his pockets, when the police approach him. After he is hit, he can be seen scraping along the ground on the right side of his forehead; eyewitnesses spoke of hearing a noise as his head hit the ground.\n\nTomlinson can be seen briefly remonstrating with police as he sits on the ground. None of the officers offered assistance. After being helped to his feet by a protester, Tomlinson walked along Cornhill, where he collapsed at around 7:22 pm outside 77 Cornhill. Witnesses say he appeared dazed, eyes rolling, skin grey. They also said he smelled of alcohol. An ITV News photographer tried to give medical aid, but was forced away by police, as was a medical student. Police medics attended to Tomlinson, who was pronounced dead on arrival at hospital.\n\nSimon Harwood, the officer who struck Tomlinson, was a police constable with the Territorial Support Group (TSG) at Larkhall Lane police station in Lambeth, South London. Harwood had faced 10 complaints in 12 years, nine of which had been dismissed or unproven. The complaint that was upheld involved unlawful access to the Police National Computer. The complaints included a road-rage incident in or around 1998 while he was on sick leave, during which he reportedly tried to arrest the other driver, who alleged that Harwood had used unnecessary force. On Friday, 14 September 2001, before the case was heard by a discipline board, Harwood retired on medical grounds. Three days later, on Monday, 17 September, he rejoined the Met as a civilian computer worker.\n\nIn May 2003 Harwood joined the Surrey Police as a constable. Surrey Police said he was frank about his history. In January 2004 he was alleged to have assaulted a man during a raid on a home. In November 2004, on his request, Harwood was transferred back to the Met. There were three more complaints after that, before the incident with Tomlinson.\n\nHarwood was involved in several confrontations on the day of Tomlinson's death. He had been on duty since 5 am, assigned as a driver, and had spent most of the day in his vehicle. While parked on Cornhill in the evening, he saw a man write \"all cops are bastards\" on the side of another police van, and left his vehicle to arrest him. The suspect's head struck a van door, triggering a response from the crowd that made Harwood believe it was unsafe to return to his vehicle. He told the inquest that he had been hit on the head, had fallen over, lost his baton, had been attacked by the crowd and feared for his life, but later acknowledged this had not happened.\n\nShortly after his attempted arrest of the graffiti man, Harwood swung a coat at a protester, pulled a BBC cameraman to the ground, used a palm strike against one man, and at 7:19 pm pushed another man to the ground for allegedly threatening a police dog handler. It was seconds after this that he saw Tomlinson standing with his hands in his pockets beside a bicycle rack, being told by police to move away. Harwood told the inquest he made a \"split-second decision\" that there was justification for engagement, then struck Tomlinson on the thigh with his baton and pushed him to the ground. He said it was a \"very poor push\" and he had been shocked when Tomlinson fell. Harwood made no mention of the incident in his notebook; he told the inquest he had forgotten about it.\n\nNewspapers did not release Harwood's name until July 2010. On the day of the incident, he appeared to have removed his shoulder number and covered the bottom of his face with his balaclava. The \"Daily Mail\" published an image showing his shoulder ID missing. Simon Israel of Channel 4 News reported a detailed description of the officer on 22 April 2009; the IPCC sought but failed to obtain an injunction to prevent Channel 4 broadcasting the description, alleging that it might prejudice their inquiry. Fifteen months later, when announcing in July 2010 that no charges would be brought against Harwood, the Crown Prosecution Service still referred to him as \"PC A.\" It was only on that day that newspapers decided to name him.\n\nHarwood said he first realized on 8 April, when he saw the \"Guardian\" video, that Tomlinson had died. He reportedly collapsed at home and had to be taken to hospital by ambulance. Harwood and three colleagues made themselves known to the IPCC that day.\n\nThe Met issued its first statement on 1 April at 11:36 pm, four hours after Tomlinson died, a statement approved by the IPCC's regional director for London. The statement said that police had been alerted that a man had collapsed and were attacked by \"a number of missiles\" as they tried to save his life, an allegation that was inaccurate, according to later media reports.\n\nAccording to Nick Davies in \"The Guardian\", the statement was the result of an intense argument in the Met's press office, after an earlier draft had been rejected. He wrote that both the Met and IPCC said the statement represented the truth as they understood it at the time, and that there had been no allegation at that point that Tomlinson had come into contact with police. Davies asked why the IPCC were involved if they had not realized there had been police contact. He alleged that senior sources within the Met said privately that the assault on Tomlinson had been spotted by the police control room at Cobalt Street in south London, and that a chief inspector on the ground had also reported it. The Met issued a statement saying they had checked with every chief inspector who had been part of Operation Glencoe, and that none of them had called in such a report.\n\nOn 2 April the Met handed responsibility for the investigation to the City of London police; the officer in charge was Detective Superintendent Anthony Crampton. After police briefings, the \"Evening Standard\" reported on 2 April that \"police were bombarded with bricks, bottles and planks of wood\" as they tried to save Tomlinson, forced by a barrage of missiles to carry him to a safe location to give him mouth-to-mouth resuscitation.\n\nEyewitnesses said the story was inaccurate. They said protesters had provided first aid and telephoned for medical help. Others said that one or two plastic bottles had been thrown by people unaware of Tomlinson's situation, but other protesters had told them to stop. According to \"The Times\", an analysis of television footage and photographs showed just one bottle, probably plastic, being thrown. Video taken by eyewitness Nabeela Zahir, published by \"The Guardian\" on 9 April, shows one protester shouting, \"There is someone hurt here. Back the fuck up.\" Another voice says, \"There's someone hurt. Don't throw anything.\"\n\nThree police constables from the Hammersmith and Fulham police station—Nicholas Jackson, Andrew Moore, and Kerry Smith—told their supervisor, Inspector Wynne Jones, on 3 April that they had witnessed the incident. They can be seen in \"The Guardian\" video standing next to Tomlinson. Jackson was the first to tell the inspector; officers then contacted Moore and Smith, who had been standing next to Jackson at the time.\n\nJackson, Moore and Smith did not recognize Simon Harwood, the officer who struck Tomlinson, and according to the newspaper assumed he was with the City of London police. This was four days before \"The Guardian\" published the video. The inspector passed this information at 4:15 pm on 3 April to Detective Inspector Eddie Hall, the Met's point of contact for Tomlinson's death. Hall said he passed it to the City of London police before the first autopsy was conducted that day by Freddy Patel, which according to \"The Guardian\" began at 5 pm.\n\nAn inquest was opened on 9 April 2009 by Paul Matthews, the City of London coroner. Three post-mortems were conducted: on 3 April by Mohmed Saeed Sulema \"Freddy\" Patel for Paul Matthews; on 9 April by Nathaniel Cary for the IPCC and Tomlinson's family; and on 22 April jointly by Kenneth Shorrock for the Metropolitan police and Ben Swift for Simon Harwood. The coroner was criticized for reportedly having failed to allow IPCC investigators to attend the first, and for failing to tell Tomlinson's family that they had a legal right to attend or send a representative. The family also said he had not told them where and when it was taking place.\n\nAccording to Detective Sergeant Chandler of the City of London police, he was not told until the first post-mortem was over, or at an advanced stage, that three police officers had seen another officer hit and push Tomlinson. Apparently neither Patel nor the IPCC were told about the three witnesses. Patel said he was told only that the case was a \"suspicious death\"; the police had asked that he \"rule out any assault or crush injuries associated with public order.\"\n\nPatel concluded that Tomlinson had died of coronary artery disease. His report noted \"intraabdominal fluid blood about 3l with small blood clot,\" which was interpreted by medical experts to mean that he had found three litres of blood in Tomlinson's abdomen. This would have been around 60 percent of Tomlinson's total blood volume, a \"highly significant indicator of the cause of death,\" according to the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS). In a report for the CPS a year later, on 5 April 2010, Patel wrote that he had meant \"intraabdominal fluid with blood.\" He did not retain samples of the fluid for testing. This issue became pivotal regarding the decision not to prosecute Harwood. The City of London police issued a statement on 4 April: \"A post-mortem examination found he died of natural causes. [He] suffered a sudden heart attack while on his way home from work.\"\n\nThe IPCC told reporters that the post-mortem showed no bruising or scratches on Tomlinson's head and shoulders. When the family asked the City of London police, after the post-mortem, whether there had been marks on Tomlinson's body, they were told no; according to \"The Guardian\", Detective Superintendent Anthony Crampton, who was leading the investigation, wrote in his log that he did not tell the family about a bruise and puncture marks on Tomlinson's leg to avoid causing \"unnecessary stress or alarm.\" On 5 April \"The Observer\" published the first photograph of Tomlinson lying on the ground next to riot police. After it was published, Freddy Patel was asked to return to the mortuary, where he made a note of bruising on Tomlinson's head that he had not noticed when he first examined him. On 24 April Sky News obtained an image of Tomlinson after he collapsed, which showed bruising on the right side of his forehead.\n\nThe IPCC removed the Tomlinson inquiry from the City of London police on 8 April. A second post-mortem, ordered jointly by the IPCC and Tomlinson's family, was carried out that day by Nathaniel Cary, known for his work on high-profile cases.<ref name=\"LewisDoddApril10/2\">Paul Lewis Lewis, Vikram Dodd, \"Ian Tomlinson death: G20 riot officer in footage has not been interviewed\", \"The Guardian\", 10 April 2009.</ref> Cary found that Tomlinson had died because of internal bleeding from blunt force trauma to the abdomen, in association with cirrhosis of the liver. He concluded that Tomlinson had fallen on his elbow, which he said \"impacted in the area of his liver causing an internal bleed which led to his death a few minutes later.\"\n\nBecause of the conflicting conclusions of the first two, a third post-mortem was conducted on 22 April by Kenneth Shorrock on behalf of the Metropolitan police, and Ben Swift on behalf of Simon Harwood. Shorrock and Swift agreed with the results of the second autopsy. The Met's point of contact for Tomlinson's death, Detective Inspector Eddie Hall, told the pathologists before the final post-mortem that Tomlinson had fallen to the ground in front of a police van earlier in the evening, although there was no evidence that this had happened. The IPCC ruled in May 2011 that Hall had been reckless in making this claim, but had not intended to mislead.\n\nAt the time of Tomlinson's death, Patel was on the Home Office's register of accredited forensic pathologists. He qualified as a doctor at the University of Zambia in 1974, and registered to practise in the UK in 1988. The Metropolitan Police had written to the Home Office in 2005 raising concerns about his work. At the time of Tomlinson's death he did not have a contract with the police to conduct post-mortems in cases of suspicious death.\n\nIn 1999 Patel was reprimanded by the General Medical Council (GMC) for having released medical details about Roger Sylvester, a man who had died in police custody. In 2002 the police dropped a criminal inquiry because Patel said the victim, Sally White, had died of a heart attack with no signs of violence, although she was reportedly found naked with bruising to her body, an injury to her head and a bite mark on her thigh. Anthony Hardy, a mentally ill alcoholic who lived in the flat in which her body was found locked in a bedroom, later murdered two women and placed their body parts in bin bags. The police investigated Patel in relation to that autopsy, but the investigation was dropped.\nIn response to the criticism, Patel said the GMC reprimand was a long time ago, and that his findings in the Sally White case had not been contested.\n\nPatel was suspended from the government's register of pathologists in July 2009, pending a GMC inquiry. The inquiry concerned 26 charges related to autopsies in four other cases. In one case Patel was accused of having failed to spot signs of abuse on the body of a five-year-old girl who had died after a fall at home, and of having failed to check with the hospital about its investigation into her injuries. The child's body was exhumed for a second postmortem, and her mother was convicted. The hearings concluded in August 2010; Patel was suspended for three months for \"deficient professional performance.\" In May 2011 the GMC opened an investigation into his handling of the Tomlinson post-mortem. He was struck off the medical register in August 2012.\n\nOn 5 April \"The Observer\" (the \"Guardian\"'s sister paper) published the first photograph of Tomlinson lying on the ground next to riot police. Over the next few days the IPCC told reporters that Tomlinson's family were not surprised that he had had a heart attack. When journalists asked whether he had been in contact with police officers before his death, they were told the speculation would upset the family.\n\nThe first \"Guardian\" video was shot on a digital camera by an investment fund manager from New York who was in London on business, and who attended the protests out of curiosity. On his way to Heathrow airport, he realized that the man he had filmed being assaulted was the man who had reportedly died of a heart attack. At that point, 2 am on 7 April, he passed his footage to \"The Guardian\", which published it on its website that afternoon. The newspaper passed a copy to the IPCC, which opened a criminal inquiry.\n\nA video by Ken McCallum, a cameraman for Channel 4 News, was broadcast on 8 April. Shot from a different angle, the footage shows Harwood draw his arm back to head height before bringing the baton down on Tomlinson's legs. McCallum was filming another incident at the time; the Tomlinson incident was unfolding in the background, unseen by the journalists but recorded by the camera. Half an hour later Alex Thomson, chief correspondent of Channel 4 News, was doing a live broadcast when the camera was damaged. It took engineers days to recover the tape, which is when they saw that Tomlinson's assault was on it.\n\nOn 9 April \"The Guardian\" published footage from Nabeela Zahir, a freelance journalist, showing Tomlinson after his collapse. The police can be seen moving away at least one woman who tried to help him, and a man, Daniel McPhee, who was on the phone to the ambulance services. The footage shows that the Met's initial claim that there had been a barrage of missiles from protesters while police tried to save Tomlinson was inaccurate. Protesters can be heard calling for calm; one shouts \"Don't throw anything.\" According to \"The Guardian\", 56 seconds into the video, three officers can be seen with their face masks pulled halfway up their faces.\n\n\"The Guardian\" obtained a four-minute video on 21 April from an anonymous bystander who had been filming on Cornhill between 7:10 and 7:30 pm. The footage shows Tomlinson standing behind a bicycle rack in Royal Exchange Passage with his hands in his pockets, and a group of advancing police officers. When a police dog approaches him, he turns his back. At that point, he is hit on the legs and pushed by the TSG constable, and can be seen scraping along the ground on the right side of his forehead. Eyewitnesses said they heard a noise as his head hit the ground. The IPCC sought an injunction against the broadcast of the video by Channel 4 News, but a judge rejected the application. An image obtained by Sky News on 24 April appears to show bruising on the right side of Tomlinson's forehead. A head injury was recorded by the second and third pathologists.\n\nNick Hardwick, chair of the IPCC, said on 9 April that there were no CCTV cameras in the area. On 14 April the \"Evening Standard\" wrote that it had found at least six CCTV cameras in the area around the assault. After photographs of the cameras were published, the IPCC reversed its position and said its investigators were looking at footage from cameras in Threadneedle Street near the corner of Royal Exchange Passage.\n\nTomlinson's death sparked a discussion about the nature of Britain's policing and the relationship between the police, public, media and IPCC. The mayor of London, Boris Johnson, dismissed the criticism of the police as \"an orgy of cop bashing.\" The death was compared to others that had acted as a watershed in the public's perception of policing, including that of Blair Peach (1979), Stephen Lawrence (1993) and Jean Charles de Menezes (2005). The IPCC was criticized for having taken seven days from Tomlinson's death, and five days after hearing evidence that police may have been involved, to remove the City of London police from the investigation.\n\nDavid Gilbertson, a former assistant inspector who had worked for the Home Office formulating policing policy, told \"The New York Times\" that the British police used to act with the sanction of the public, but that tactics had changed after a series of violent assaults on officers in the 1990s. Now dressing in military-style uniforms and equipped with anti-stab vests, extendable metal batons and clubs that turn into handcuffs, an entire generation of officers has come to regard the public as the enemy, the newspaper said.\n\nTomlinson's death was confirmed in a statement that accused protesters of having hampered police efforts to save his life. His family were not told he had died until nine hours after his death. The police and IPCC told journalists that his family were not surprised to hear he had had a heart attack. Journalists who asked whether police had had any contact with Tomlinson were asked not to speculate in case it upset the family. Direct contact with the family was refused. The police issued a statement on behalf of the family instead, which said the police were keeping them informed.\n\n\"The Observer\" (\"The Guardian\"'s sister paper) published an image of Tomlinson on the ground on Sunday, 5 April. That morning Tomlinson's family attended the scene of his death, where they met Paul Lewis, a \"Guardian\" reporter who had worked on \"The Observer\" story. Tomlinson's wife said this meeting was the first the family had heard of police contact with Tomlinson before his death. The family's police liaison officer later approached the newspaper to say he was \"extremely unhappy\" that Lewis had spoken to the family, and that the newspaper had to stay away from them for 48 hours. The IPCC accused the newspaper of \"doorstepping the family at a time of grief.\" On the same day, the IPCC briefed other journalists that there was nothing in the story that Tomlinson might have been assaulted by police. During this period, according to Tomlinson's family, they were prevented from seeing his body; they were first allowed to see him six days after his death.\n\nOn 7 April \"The Guardian\" published the American banker's video, and later that evening handed it to an IPCC investigator and a City of London police officer who arrived at the newspaper's offices. The officers asked that the video be removed from the website, arguing that it jeopardized their inquiry and was not helpful to the family. Nick Hardwick, chair of the IPCC, said the IPCC had asked \"The Guardian\" to remove the video only because it would have been better had witnesses not seen it before being questioned.\n\nThe Chief Inspector of Constabulary, Denis O'Connor, published a 150-page report in November 2009 that aimed to restore Britain's consent-based model of policing.\n\nO'Connor wrote that there had been a hardening of police attitudes, with officers believing that proportionality meant reciprocity. The deployment of officers in riot gear had become a routine response to lawful protest, largely the result of an ignorance of the law and a lack of leadership from the Home Office and police chiefs. Officers were being trained to use their riot shields as weapons. Police forces across the country differed in their training, the equipment they had access to, and their understanding of the law. The failure to understand the relevant legislation was in part due to its complexity, the report said, with 90 amendments to the Public Order Act passed since 1986.\n\nThe report made several recommendations, including the creation of a set of national principles emphasizing the minimum use of force at all times, and making the display of police ID a legal requirement. In February 2010 the Met announced that 8,000 of its officers had been issued with embroidered epaulettes, as several had complained that the numbers were falling off, rather than being removed deliberately.\n\nIn April 2010 \"The Guardian\" published an open letter from several public figures asking the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) to proceed with a prosecution or explain its position. In July that year Keir Starmer, director of the CPS, announced that there would be no prosecution because of the medical disagreement between the three pathologists. Starmer said there was enough evidence for an assault charge, but the six-month deadline for that had expired.\n\nThe area of conflict concerned Patel's finding during the first autopsy of \"intraabdominal fluid blood about 3l with small blood clot.\" This was interpreted by other medical experts to mean that Patel had found three litres of blood in Tomlinson's abdomen. Starmer said this would have been around 60 percent of Tomlinson's blood volume, a \"highly significant indicator of the cause of death.\"\n\nIn April 2010 Patel introduced an ambiguity in a second report for the CPS, saying he had found \"intraabdominal fluid blood about 3l with small blood clot\" [emphasis added]. The ambiguity had to be clarified, because the second and third pathologists had relied in part on Patel's original notes to form their views. Patel was interviewed twice by the CPS. According to Starmer, Patel \"maintained that the total fluid was somewhat in excess of three litres but that it was mainly ascites (a substance which forms in a damaged liver), which had been stained with blood. He had not retained the fluid nor had he sampled it in order to ascertain the proportion of blood because, he said, he had handled blood all his professional life and he knew that this was not blood but blood-stained ascites.\" Patel also said he had found no internal rupture that would have led to this degree of blood loss.\n\nSeveral conclusions were drawn from discussions between Patel and the CPS, Starmer said: (a) because Patel had not retained or sampled the three litres of fluid, no firm conclusions could be drawn about the nature of it; (b) for Tomlinson's death to have resulted so quickly from blood loss, there would have to have been a significant internal rupture; (c) Patel found no such rupture; (d) the later postmortems also found no visible rupture; and (e) because Patel was the only person to have examined Tomlinson's intact body, he was in the best position to judge the nature of the fluid, and whether there was a rupture that could have caused it. This meant that Patel's evidence would significantly undermine the evidence of the second and third pathologists.\n\nNathaniel Cary, the second pathologist, objected to the CPS's decision. Cary told \"The Guardian\" that the push had caused a haemorrhage to Tomlinson's abdomen, and the haemorrhage caused him to collapse. Cary said Tomlinson was vulnerable to this because he had liver disease. The CPS had erred in dismissing a charge of actual bodily harm (ABH), in his view. In a letter to Tomlinson's family, the CPS described Tomlinson's injuries as \"relatively minor\" and therefore insufficient to support such a charge. But Cary told \"The Guardian\": \"The injuries were not relatively minor. He sustained quite a large area of bruising. Such injuries are consistent with a baton strike, which could amount to ABH. It's extraordinary. If that's not ABH I would like to know what is.\"\n\nThe inquest was opened and adjourned in April 2009. The City of London coroner, Paul Matthews, expressed concern about whether he had appropriate expertise, and Peter Thornton QC, who specializes in protest law, took over. The inquest opened on 28 March 2011 before a jury. The court heard from Kevin Channer, a cardiologist at Royal Hallamshire Hospital, who analysed electrocardiogram (ECG) data from the defibrillator paramedics had used on Tomlinson. He said the readings were inconsistent with an arrhythmic heart attack, but consistent with death from internal bleeding. Pathologist Nat Carey concurred regarding the cause of death. Graeme Alexander, a hepatologist, said that in his opinion Tomlinson had died of internal bleeding as a result of trauma to the liver after the fall. He told the court that Tomlinson had been suffering from serious liver disease, which would have made him susceptible to collapse from internal bleeding.\n\nGiving evidence over three days, Harwood said that Tomlinson \"just looked as if he was going to stay where he was forever and was almost inviting physical confrontation in terms of being moved on.\" He said he had not warned Tomlinson and had acted because Tomlinson was encroaching a police line, which amounted to a breach of the peace. The court heard that Tomlinson's last words after collapsing were, \"they got me, the fuckers got me\"; he died moments later. On 3 May 2011 the jury returned a verdict of unlawful killing, ruling that the officer—Harwood was not named for legal reasons—had used excessive and unreasonable force in hitting Tomlinson, and had acted \"illegally, recklessly and dangerously.\"\n\nIn May 2011 the IPCC released three reports into Tomlinson's death, written between April 2010 and May 2011. The main report contained material revealed during the inquest. The third report detailed an allegation from Tomlinson's family that the police had offered misleading information to the pathologists before the third autopsy on 22 April 2009. The Met's point of contact for Tomlinson's death, Detective Inspector Eddie Hall, had told the pathologists that Tomlinson had fallen to the ground in front of a police van earlier in the evening, although there was no evidence to support this. The IPCC ruled that Hall had been reckless in making this claim, but had not intended to mislead the pathologists.\n\nKeir Starmer, director of the CPS, announced on 24 May 2011 that a summons for manslaughter had been issued against Harwood. He said the CPS had reviewed its decision not to prosecute because new medical evidence had emerged during the inquest, and because the various medical accounts, including that of the first pathologist, had been tested during questioning. The trial opened on 18 June 2012. Harwood entered a plea of not guilty, and was acquitted on 19 July.\n\nThe court was shown extensive video footage of Tomlinson and Harwood on the day. Harwood was seen trying to arrest a man who had daubed graffiti on a police van, then joining a line of officers who were clearing Royal Exchange Passage. Harwood pushed a man who blew a vuvuzela at him, then appeared to push a BBC cameraman who was filming the arrest of another man. The footage showed Harwood push a third man out of the way, and shortly after this (the passageway now almost empty) the officers reached Tomlinson.\n\nMark Dennis QC, for the prosecution, argued that Harwood's use of force against Tomlinson had been unnecessary and unreasonable, and had caused Tomlinson's death. He argued that a \"clear temporal link\" between the incident and Tomlinson's collapse had been provided by the \"Guardian video\", that Tomlinson had posed no threat, and that the use of force had been a \"gratuitous act of aggression.\" The defence argued that Tomlinson's health was relevant. The court heard that he had liver and brain disease caused by alcohol abuse, numbness in his legs and balance problems, and that he had been treated at least 20 times between 2007 and 2009, mostly at A&E departments, related to falling while drunk. On the day he died, \"The Times\" reported, he had drunk a bottle of red wine, a small bottle of vodka and several cans of 9-per-cent super-strength lager.\n\nHarwood told the court that Tomlinson had ignored orders to move along. He acknowledged that he had pushed Tomlinson firmly, but said he had not expected him to fall. He also acknowledged that he had \"got it wrong,\" and said he had not realized Tomlinson was in such poor health. The jury found him not guilty after deliberating for four days.\n\nHarwood was dismissed from the Metropolitan Police Service in September 2012 after a disciplinary hearing found that he had acted with \"gross misconduct\" in his actions towards Tomlinson. Tomlinson's family filed a lawsuit against the Metropolitan Police, which paid the family an undisclosed sum in August 2013. Deputy Assistant Commissioner Maxine de Brunner issued a formal apology for \"Simon Harwood's use of excessive and unlawful force, which caused Mr Tomlinson's death, and for the suffering and distress caused to his family as a result.\"\n\n\nVideo of Tomlinson\n\nVideo taken nearby\n"}
{"id": "1918452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1918452", "title": "Death rattle", "text": "Death rattle\n\nTerminal respiratory secretions (or simply terminal secretions), known colloquially as a death rattle, are sounds often produced by someone who is near death as a result of fluids such as saliva and bronchial secretions accumulating in the throat and upper chest. Those who are dying may lose their ability to swallow and may have increased production of bronchial secretions, resulting in such an accumulation. Usually, two or three days earlier, the symptoms of approaching death can be observed as saliva accumulates in the throat, making it very difficult to take even a spoonful of water. Related symptoms can include shortness of breath and rapid chest movement. While death rattle is a strong indication that someone is near death, it can also be produced by other problems that cause interference with the swallowing reflex, such as brain injuries.\n\nIt is sometimes misinterpreted as the sound of the person choking to death, or alternatively, that they are gargling. \n\nThis symptom most commonly appears sometime during the last 24 hours of the person's life, although some people live somewhat longer.\n\nThe dying person is usually unaware of the noisy breathing and is not disturbed by it, but some healthcare providers attempt to minimize the sound for the emotional comfort of family members and caregivers. This may be done through repositioning the person, reducing the volume of IV fluids being given, or giving anticholinergic drugs to reduce secretions. In hospice and palliative care, drugs such as glycopyrronium, hyoscine hydrobromide (scopolamine) or atropine may be used for their anticholinergic effects to reduce secretions and minimize this effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1227606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1227606", "title": "Diploblasty", "text": "Diploblasty\n\nDiploblasty is a condition of the blastula in which there are two primary germ layers: the ectoderm and endoderm.\n\nDiploblastic organisms are organisms which develop from such a blastula, and include cnidaria and ctenophora, formerly grouped together in the phylum Coelenterata, but later understanding of their differences resulted in their being placed in separate phyla.\n\nThe endoderm allows them to develop true tissue. This includes tissue associated with the gut and associated glands. The ectoderm, on the other hand, gives rise to the epidermis, the nervous tissue, and if present, nephridia.\n\nSimpler animals, such as sea sponges, have one germ layer and lack true tissue organization.\n\nAll the more complex animals (from flat worms to humans) are triploblastic with three germ layers (a mesoderm as well as ectoderm and endoderm). The mesoderm allows them to develop true organs.\n\nGroups of diploblastic animals alive today include jellyfish, corals, sea anemones and comb jellies.\n\n"}
{"id": "22953297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22953297", "title": "Edna Adan Maternity Hospital", "text": "Edna Adan Maternity Hospital\n\nEdna Adan Maternity Hospital is a non-profit charity hospital built in Hargeisa, Somaliland. It was founded by the autonomous northwestern Somaliland region's former foreign minister and former first lady of Somalia, Edna Adan Ismail. The hospital has as its primary mission to provide better health care to people whose lives have been traumatized by war, and also to provide training for nurses, midwives, and other health workers. In addition to services and facilities relating specifically to maternal and infant health care, the hospital has diagnostic laboratory facilities and an emergency blood bank, and offers diagnosis and treatment for sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nThe hospital seeks to fill not only the urgent need for health care but also to provide — in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, UNICEF, and WHO – training for a new generation of nurses and midwives qualified to provide Reproductive Health care throughout the Somaliland region.\n\nAnother aspect of the hospital's mission is to combat the practice of female circumcision, which is endemic to the region. Mothers of newborn girls are counseled on the dangers of having their child circumcised, but the tradition is strongly ingrained in the culture.\n\nFollowing the Somali Civil War, the entire health infrastructure of Somaliland was effectively destroyed and there were few, if any, trained medical personnel remaining in the region. The rate of maternal and infant mortality was among the highest in the world. Edna Adan donated her U.N. pension and other personal assets to build the hospital so that she might help to address the grave health crisis.\n\nNeeding, first of all, a place to build her hospital, she asked the government for land near the city center. They responded by offering her 9600 square meters which previously had served as a garbage dump.\n\nThe construction of the hospital was started on January 1, 1998 and as it progressed, private individuals, business people in Somaliland and elsewhere, as well as international organizations, also made valuable contributions enabling the hospital to become functional on the March 9, 2002.\n\nDirect Relief International describes the hospital as Somaliland's premier referral center for obstetric emergencies. The hospital trains nurses and midwives under the close supervision of Mrs. Ismail, herself a trained nurse, whose residence is inside of the hospital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6121900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6121900", "title": "Eternal youth", "text": "Eternal youth\n\nEternal youth is the concept of human physical immortality free of ageing. The youth referred to is usually meant to be in contrast to the depredations of aging, rather than a specific age of the human lifespan. Achieving eternal youth so far remains beyond the capabilities of scientific technology. However, much research is being conducted in the sciences of genetics which may allow manipulation of the aging process in the future. Eternal youth is common in mythology, and is a popular theme in fiction.\n\nEternal youth is a characteristic of the inhabitants of Paradise in Abrahamic religions.\n\nThe Hindus believe that the Vedic and the post-Vedic rishis have attained immortality, which implies the ability to change one's body's age or even shape at will. These are some of the siddhas in Yoga. Markandeya is said to always stay at the age of 16.\n\nThe difference between eternal life and the more specific eternal youth is a recurrent theme in Greek and Roman mythology. The mytheme of requesting the boon of immortality from a god, but forgetting to ask for eternal youth appears in the story of Tithonus. A similar theme is found in Ovid regarding the Cumaean Sibyl.\n\nIn Norse mythology, Iðunn is described as providing the gods apples that grant them eternal youthfulness in the 13th century Prose Edda.\n\nAn individual's DNA plays a role in the aging process. Aging begins even before birth, as soon as cells start to die and need to be replaced. On the ends of each chromosome are repetitive sequences of DNA, telomeres, that protect the chromosome from joining with other chromosomes, and have several key roles. One of these roles is to regulate cell division by allowing each cell division to remove a small amount of genetic code. The amount removed varies by the cell type being replicated. The gradual degradation of the telomeres restricts cell division to 40-60 times, also known as the Hayflick limit. Once this limit has been reached, more cells die than can be replaced in the same time span. Thus, soon after this limit is reached the organism dies. The importance of telomeres is now clearly evident: lengthen the telomeres, lengthen the life.\n\nHowever, a study of the comparative biology of mammalian telomeres indicated that telomere length correlates inversely, rather than directly, with lifespan, and concluded that the contribution of telomere length to lifespan remains controversial. Also, telomere shortening does not occur with age in a some postmitotic tissues, such as in the rat brain. In humans, skeletal muscle telomere lengths remain stable from ages 23–74. In baboon skeletal muscle, that consists of fully differentiated post-mitotic cells, less than 3% of myonuclei contain damaged telomeres and this percentage does not increase with age. Thus telomere shortening does not appear to be a major factor in the aging of the differentiated cells of brain or skeletal muscle.\n\nStudies have shown that 90 percent of cancer cells contain large amounts of an enzyme called telomerase. Telomerase is an enzyme that replenishes the worn away telomeres by adding bases to the ends and thus renewing the telomere. A cancer cell has in essence turned on the telomerase gene, and this allows them to have an unlimited amount of divisions without the telomeres wearing away. Other kinds of cells that can surpass the Hayflick limit are stem cells, hair follicles, and germ cells. This is because they contain raised amounts of telomerase.\n\nThe idea that the human body can be repaired in old age to a more youthful state has gathered significant commercial interest over the past few years, including by companies such as Human Longevity Inc, Google Calico, and Elysium Health. In addition to these larger companies, many startups are currently developing therapeutics to tackle the 'ageing problem' using therapy. In 2015 a new class of drugs senolytics was announced (currently in pre-clinical development) designed specifically to combat the underlying biological causes of frailty.\n\nThe \"loss of youth\" or ageing process is responsible for increasing the risk of individuals to many diseases including cancer, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, and others. As a result, in recent years, many high net worth individuals have donated large amounts of their money towards initiatives towards scientific research into the ageing process itself or therapies to slow or reverse the ageing process. These people include Peter Thiel, Aubrey de Grey, Larry Ellison, Sergey Brin, Dmitry Itskov, Paul Gallen, and Mark Zuckerberg. This would allow humans to extend or maintain their youth indefinitely.\n\n"}
{"id": "4832828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4832828", "title": "Extremal optimization", "text": "Extremal optimization\n\nExtremal optimization (EO) is an optimization heuristic inspired by the Bak–Sneppen model of self-organized criticality from the field of statistical physics. This heuristic was designed initially to address combinatorial optimization problems such as the travelling salesman problem and spin glasses, although the technique has been demonstrated to function in optimization domains.\n\nSelf-organized criticality (SOC) is a statistical physics concept to describe a class of dynamical systems that have a critical point as an attractor. Specifically, these are non-equilibrium systems that evolve through avalanches of change and dissipations that reach up to the highest scales of the system. SOC is said to govern the dynamics behind some natural systems that have these burst-like phenomena including landscape formation, earthquakes, evolution, and the granular dynamics of rice and sand piles. Of special interest here is the Bak–Sneppen model of SOC, which is able to describe evolution via punctuated equilibrium (extinction events) – thus modelling evolution as a self-organised critical process.\n\nAnother piece in the puzzle is work on computational complexity, specifically that critical points have been shown to exist in NP-complete problems, where near-optimum solutions are widely dispersed and separated by barriers in the search space causing local search algorithms to get stuck or severely hampered. It was the evolutionary self-organised criticality model by Bak and Sneppen and the observation of critical points in combinatorial optimisation problems that lead to the development of Extremal Optimization by Stefan Boettcher and Allon Percus.\n\nEO was designed as a local search algorithm for combinatorial optimization problems. Unlike genetic algorithms, which work with a population of candidate solutions, EO evolves a single solution and makes local modifications to the worst components. This requires that a suitable representation be selected which permits individual solution components to be assigned a quality measure (\"fitness\"). This differs from holistic approaches such as ant colony optimization and evolutionary computation that assign equal-fitness to all components of a solution based upon their collective evaluation against an objective function. The algorithm is initialized with an initial solution, which can be constructed randomly, or derived from another search process.\n\nThe technique is a fine-grained search, and superficially resembles a hill climbing (local search) technique. A more detailed examination reveals some interesting principles, which may have applicability and even some similarity to broader population-based approaches (evolutionary computation and artificial immune system). The governing principle behind this algorithm is that of improvement through selectively removing low-quality components and replacing them with a randomly selected component. This is obviously at odds with genetic algorithms, the quintessential evolutionary computation algorithm that selects good solutions in an attempt to make better solutions.\n\nThe resulting dynamics of this simple principle is firstly a robust hill climbing search behaviour, and secondly a diversity mechanism that resembles that of multiple-restart search. Graphing holistic solution quality over time (algorithm iterations) shows periods of improvement followed by quality crashes (avalanche) very much in the manner as described by punctuated equilibrium. It is these crashes or dramatic jumps in the search space that permit the algorithm to escape local optima and differentiate this approach from other local search procedures. Although such punctuated-equilibrium behaviour can be \"designed\" or \"hard-coded\", it should be stressed that this is an \"emergent\" effect of the negative-component-selection principle fundamental to the algorithm.\n\nEO has primarily been applied to combinatorial problems such as graph partitioning and the travelling salesman problem, as well as problems from statistical physics such as spin glasses.\n\nGeneralised extremal optimization (GEO) was developed to operate on bit strings where component quality is determined by the absolute rate of change of the bit, or the bits contribution to holistic solution quality. This work includes application to standard function optimisation problems as well as engineering problem domains. Another similar extension to EO is Continuous Extremal Optimization (CEO).\n\nEO has been applied to image rasterization as well as used as a local search after using ant colony optimization. EO has been used to identify structures in complex networks. EO has been used on a multiple target tracking problem. Finally, some work has been done on investigating the probability distribution used to control selection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26510881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26510881", "title": "Homeless ministry", "text": "Homeless ministry\n\nHomeless ministry is the intentional interaction between Christians and homeless persons, regardless of their faith. The ministering typically occurs in the environment in which the homeless reside. It may include distribution of provisions such as food, clothing, and blankets. The ministry often involves building relationships with the homeless and providing them with information and relational care. Prayer, conversation, and ministering to spiritual needs are part of the process. \n"}
{"id": "11051468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11051468", "title": "Intermediate state", "text": "Intermediate state\n\nIn some forms of Christian eschatology, the intermediate state or interim state refers to a person's \"intermediate\" existence between one's death and the universal resurrection. In addition, there are beliefs in a Particular judgment right after death and a General judgement or Last judgment after the resurrection.\n\nChristians looked for an imminent end of the world and many of them had little interest in an interim state between death and resurrection. The Eastern Church admits of such an intermediate state, but refrained from defining it, so as not to blur the distinction between the alternative definitive fates of Heaven and Hell. The Western Church goes differently by defining the intermediate state, with evidence from as far back as the \"Passion\" of Saints Perpetua and Felicity (203) of the belief that sins can be purged by suffering in an afterlife, and that the purgation can be expedited by the intercession of the living. Eastern Christians also believed that the dead can be assisted by prayer.\n\nEast and West, those in the intermediate state have traditionally been the beneficiaries of prayers, such as requiem masses. In the East, the saved are said to rest in light while the wicked are confined in darkness. In the East, prayers are said to benefit those in \"Hades\", even pagans. In the West, Augustine described prayer as useful for those in communion with the church, and implied that every soul's ultimate fate is determined at death. In the West, such prayer came to be restricted to souls in \"Purgatory\", which the idea has \"ancient roots\" and is demonstrated in early Church writings. Roman Catholic Church offers indulgences for those in purgatory, which evolved out of the earlier practice of canonical remissions. While some Protestants, such as Anglicans and Lutherans, affirmed prayer for the dead, other Nonconformist Protestants largely ceased praying for the dead.\n\nIn general, Protestants denied the Catholic purgatory. Luther taught mortality of the soul, comparing the sleep of a tired man after a day's work whose soul \"sleeps not but is awake\" (\"non sic dormit, sed vigilat\") and can \"experience visions and the discourses of the angels and of God\", with the sleep of the dead which experience nothing but still \"live to God\" (\"coram Deo vivit\"). Calvin depicted the righteous dead as resting in bliss.\n\nThe early Hebrews had no notion of resurrection of the dead and thus no intermediate state. As with neighboring groups, they understood death to be the end. Their afterlife, \"sheol\" (the pit), was a dark place from which none return. By Jesus' time, however, the Book of Daniel () and a prophecy in Isaiah (26:19) had made popular the idea that the dead in \"sheol\" would be raised for a last judgment. The intertestamental literature describes in more detail what the dead experience in \"sheol\". According to the Book of Enoch, the righteous and wicked await the resurrection in separate divisions of sheol, a teaching which may have influenced Jesus' parable of Lazarus and Dives.\n\nIn the Septuagint and New Testament the authors used the Greek term Hades for the Hebrew Sheol, but often with Jewish rather than Greek concepts in mind, so that, for example, there is no activity in Hades in Ecclesiastes. An exception to traditional Jewish views of Sheol, Hades is found in the Gospel of Luke parable of the Rich man and Lazarus which describes Hades along the lines of intertestamental Jewish understanding of a Sheol divided between the happy righteous and the miserable wicked. Later Hippolytus of Rome expanded on this parable and described activity in the Bosom of Abraham in \"Against Plato\". \n\nSince Augustine, Christians have believed that the souls of those who die either rest peacefully, in the case of Christians, or are afflicted, in the case of the damned, after death until the resurrection. Augustine distinguishes between the purifying fire that saves and eternal consuming fire for the unrepentant, and speaks of the pain that purgatorial fire causes as more severe than anything a man can suffer in this life. The Venerable Bede and Saint Boniface both report visions of an afterlife with a four-way division, including pleasant and punishing abodes near heaven and hell to hold souls until judgment day.\n\nThe idea of Purgatory as a physical place was \"born\" in the late 11th century. Medieval Catholic theologians concluded that the purgatorial punishments consisted of material fire. The Catholic Church believes that the living can help those whose purification from their sins is not yet completed not only by praying for them but also by gaining indulgences for them as an act of intercession. All Souls' Day commemorates the souls in purgatory. The Late Middle Ages saw the growth of considerable abuses, such as the unrestricted sale of indulgences by professional \"pardoners\" to release the donors' departed loved ones from suffering in purgatory, or the donors themselves.\n\nIn the 16th century, Protestant Reformers such as Martin Luther and John Calvin challenged the doctrine of purgatory because it was not supported in the Bible. Both Calvin and Luther continued to believe in an intermediate state, but Calvin held to a more conscious existence for the souls of the dead than Luther did. For Calvin, believers in the intermediate state enjoyed a blessedness that was incomplete, in anticipation of the resurrection. Reformed theology largely followed Calvin's teaching on the intermediate state.\n\nSome theological traditions, including most Protestants, Anabaptists and Eastern Orthodox, teach that the intermediate state is a disembodied foretaste of the final state. Therefore, those who die in Christ go into the presence of God (or the bosom of Abraham) where they experience joy and rest while they await their resurrection (cf. ). Those who die unrepentant will experience torment (perhaps in hell) while they await final condemnation on the day of judgment ().\n\nThe neutral historical term for this belief today is usually \"Mortalism\" or \"Christian Mortalism\". The terms \"Soul sleep\" \"Psychopannychism\" are somewhat loaded by their derivation from a tract (1534) by John Calvin, though use of the terms are not necessarily polemic or pejorative. Both terms may be used together.\n\nA minority of Christians, including William Tyndale, Martin Luther some Anglicans such as E. W. Bullinger, and churches/groups such as Seventh-day Adventists, Christadelphians and others, deny the conscious existence of the soul after death, believing the intermediate state of the dead to be unconscious \"sleep\". Jehovah's Witnesses also believe this with the exception of the 144,000. In this case, the person is not conscious of any time or activity and would not be aware even if centuries elapsed between their death and their resurrection. They would, upon their death, cease consciousness, and gain it again at the time of the resurrection having experienced no time lapse. For them, time would thus be suspended, as if they moved immediately from death to resurrection and the General Judgment of the Judgment Day.\n\n\nThe intermediate state is sometimes referred to by the Greek term \"hades\", even in other languages. The term is equivalent to Hebrew \"sheol\" and Latin \"infernum\" (meaning \"underworld\"). This term for the intermediate state is used in Anglican, Eastern Orthodox, and Methodist theology.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church teaches that all who die in God's grace and friendship, but still imperfectly purified, undergo \"purification\" so as to achieve the holiness necessary to enter the joy of heaven, a final purification to which it gives the name \"purgatory\".\n\nRoman Catholic theologians had given the name \"limbo\" to a theory on the possible fate of infants who die without baptism. The just who died before Jesus Christ are also spoken of as having been in limbo until he had won salvation for them.\n\nIn Islamic eschatology, Barzakh () is the intermediate state in which the soul of the deceased is transferred across the boundaries of the mortal realm into a kind of \"cold sleep\" where the soul will rest until the \"Qiyamah\" or End Time (Judgement Day). The term appears in the Qur'an Surah 23, Ayat 100.\n\nBarzakh is a sequence that happens after death, in which the soul will separate from the body. Three events make up \"barzakh\":\n\nIn Islam all human beings go through five steps of age:\n\nAccording to the native Indonesian beliefs, the soul of a dead person will stay on the earth for 40 days after the death. When the ties aren't released after 40 days, the body is said to jump out from the grave to warn people that the soul need the bonds to be released. Because of the tie under the feet, the ghost can't walk. This causes the \"pocong\" to hop. After the ties are released, the soul will leave the earth and never show up anymore.\n\nTibetan Buddhism has the concept of \"bardo\", a state of existence intermediate between two lives on earth, usually within 49 days. Theravada Buddhism does not have this belief.\n\nIn Taoism a newly deceased person may return () to his home at some nights, sometimes one week () after his death and the seven \"po\" souls would disappear one by one every 7 days after death. They may return home as a ghost, an insect, bat or bird and people avoid hurting such things.\n\n"}
{"id": "1147375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1147375", "title": "Isaac Aboab I", "text": "Isaac Aboab I\n\nIsaac Aboab (fl. end of the 14th century) was a Jewish Talmudic scholar. He was also known by the pen name \"Menorat ha-Maor\" or \"Menoras HaMaor\", a work which he authored. He lived in Spain during the 14th century. As shown by Zunz (\"Ritus,\" pp. 204–210), he is not to be confused with Isaac Aboab, rabbi of Castile, the supercommentator of Naḥmanides, who died in 1493.\n\nHe was a man of affairs, who, towards the end of his life, devoted much time to literary work and to preaching, as he found that great Talmudic scholars and important seats of learning were rare. In his time, the Jews for whom he wrote still understood and spoke Arabic. He belonged to a period of intellectual decline when men took naturally to eclecticism. He combined extensive rabbinical knowledge with philosophical erudition, and was fond of mystic interpretation of the Mosaic laws and ceremonies. He quoted Aristotle and Plato, though only from secondary sources, and endeavored to illustrate passages from the Talmud and the midrashic literature, with which he was especially familiar, by utterances taken from the philosophical, the ethical, and the mystic literature of his time. His chief aim was the popularization of knowledge and the elevation of the masses.\n\nAboab wrote three books:\n\n\"These Talmudists,\" he says in the preface, \"consider it their duty to propose difficult questions and answer them in a witty and subtle manner, but leave unnoticed the precious pearls that lie upon the bed of the Talmudic ocean, the haggadic passages (similar to Midrash) so rich in beauty and sweetness.\" He conceived, therefore, the plan of grouping together the rich material stored up in the vast treasure-house of the Haggadah - (see Aggadah) from the religious and ethical point of view, and of presenting it in a book which he called \"Menorat ha-Maor\" (\"The Candlestick of Light\"; compare Numbers 4:9 also translated as \"The Menorah Lamp\") ), intending by it to illumine the minds and the hearts of his coreligionists. With reference to the seven-armed candlestick (\"Menorah\") in the Tabernacle (as described in Exodus 25:31 ; and Numbers 8:2 ), he divided the book into seven sections, each of which bears the title of \"Ner\" or \"Lamp\" subdivided into separate parts and chapters. It can hardly be said that the division of the matter treated is very logical and systematic, nor indeed does the work lay any claim to originality; but in presenting the beautiful moral and religious truths of Judaism in homely form, Aboab supplied to the average reader a great need of the time. Its skillful arrangement of the various Biblical and rabbinical topics and its warm tone of deep earnestness and sincerity could not fail to appeal to the popular heart. And as in the course of time the sermon, then still in use among the Spanish Jews, ceased to be a part of the divine service because the preacher had to give way to the Hazzan, or precentor, the \"Menorat ha-Maor\" became a substitute for the living voice of the preacher. It was translated into Spanish and read to attentive assemblies of the people, particularly to those not versed in the Law. It thus became the household book of the medieval Jews. It was published with a Spanish translation (Leghorn, 1657), with a Hebrew commentary and a Judæo-German translation by Moses Frankfurter (Amsterdam, 1701), with a modern German translation by Jacob Raphael Fürstenthal and Benzion Behrend (Krotoschin, 1844–46). It was translated also into modern Yiddish, in Wilna, 1880. The book should not be confused with a work of the same name by Israel Alnaqua.\n"}
{"id": "31367120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31367120", "title": "Kunigunde of Sternberg", "text": "Kunigunde of Sternberg\n\nKunigunde of Sternberg (; 18 November 1425, Konopiště – 19 November 1449, Poděbrady) was the first wife of George of Poděbrady, who later became King of Bohemia.\n\nKunigunde's parents were the Bohemian nobles Smil of Sternberg (d. 1431) and Barbara of Pardubice (d. 1433). In 1441 she married then 21-year-old George of Poděbrady, who had been captain of the old Bohemian circle of Stará Boleslav since 1440. This marriage produced three sons:\n\nand three daughters:\n\nIn 1444 Kunigunde founded a hospital in Poděbrady. It was named after her and remained in operation until the beginning of the 20th century. She also established a foundation for youth education, school construction and rehabilitation of prisoners.\n\nShe died in 1449, the day after her twenty-fourth birthday and several days after giving birth to twin daughters. She was buried in the parish church \"Exaltation of the Holy Cross\" in Poděbrady.\n\n"}
{"id": "1299801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1299801", "title": "Lambert II, Count of Lens", "text": "Lambert II, Count of Lens\n\nLambert II, Count of Lens (died 1054) was a French nobleman.\n\nHe was the son of Eustace I, Count of Bologne and of Maud de Leuven (daughter of Lambert I of Leuven). he married Adelaide of Normandy, Countess of Aumale, daughter of Robert I, Duke of Normandy and sister of William the Conqueror. Adelaide was the widow of Enguerrand II, Count of Ponthieu who died in 1053. Lambert and Adelaide had a daughter, Judith of Lens, although Lambert would scarcely have seen her; he was killed at the battle of Lille in 1054. Lambert was supporting Baldwin V, Count of Flanders against Henry III, Holy Roman Emperor when he was killed in battle. His widow, Adelaide, married thirdly, Odo, Count of Champagne.\n"}
{"id": "2835969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2835969", "title": "Lillian Leitzel", "text": "Lillian Leitzel\n\nLillian Leitzel (January 2, 1892, Breslau, Germany (present-day Wrocław, Poland) – February 15, 1931, Copenhagen, Denmark) was an acrobat and strongwoman for the Ringling Brothers and Barnum and Bailey Circus. The inaugural (posthumous) inductee to the International Circus Hall of Fame, Leitzel died in hospital two days after a fall during a live performance.\n\nLeitzel was born as Leopoldina Alitza Pelikan in a family of circus performers. Her father was a Hungarian army officer and theater performer. Her mother was a Czech circus acrobat. She spent her childhood in Germany where she lived with her maternal grandparents. Although she had been well-educated and had prepared to pursue a career as a concert pianist, she joined her mother's aerobatic circus group, the Leamy Ladies.\n\nIn 1910, she came to the United States with the circus troupe and performed with Barnum and Bailey. The group later dissolved and its members returned to Europe, but Leitzel continued to attempt to perform in the American vaudeville circuit. In South Bend, Indiana, she was seen by an agent of the Ringling Brothers who offered her a contract. When Ringling and Barnum and Bailey merged, she became a huge star and a headline performer for the circus.\n\nLeitzel's act included one-armed planges, momentarily dislocating the shoulder during each plange. She would flip her body over her shoulder repeatedly, sometimes hundreds of times in a feat of endurance, encouraging the audience to count each one in unison. Only four feet, nine inches, she was also famous for her demanding personality and temper. Leitzel was the first performer in history to command her own private Pullman car completely furnished with her own baby grand piano.\n\nHer quick temper was legendary. It was not uncommon to witness Leitzel cursing or slapping a roustabout who did not adjust her rigging exactly to her liking. Further, Leitzel was known to fly off the handle and fire and rehire her personal maid, Mabel Cummings, several times a day. In sharp contrast, she was known to the children on the show as \"Auntie Leitzel\", and who would hold birthday parties for her fellow performers in her private dressing tent.\n\nShe married Clyde Ingalls in 1920 (the couple divorced in 1924), and later wed circus trapeze performer Alfredo Codona in 1928.\n\nOn February 13, 1931, she fell to the ground from her rigging while performing in Copenhagen, Denmark at the Valencia Theatre, when the swivel that held the rope in place fractured and snapped. She and Codona had been performing in Europe separately, and he rushed to Copenhagen. After she apparently showed signs of improvement, Codona returned to his company in Berlin. However, she died on February 15, two days after the fall, aged 39. She was buried in Inglewood Park Cemetery in Inglewood, California.\n\nLillian Leitzel was the first inductee elected into the International Circus Hall of Fame in 1958.\n\nA vintage circus poster depicting her was used as the subject of a United States postage stamp issued as part of a set on May 5, 2014.\n\nThe book \"Queen of the Air: A True Story of Love and Tragedy at the Circus\" by Dean N. Jensen, is about Lillian Leitzel. It was published by Crown in 2013 (/).\n\n"}
{"id": "50235763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50235763", "title": "List of Jewish cemeteries in New York City", "text": "List of Jewish cemeteries in New York City\n\nThis is a list of Jewish cemeteries in the five boroughs of New York City. Non-sectarian cemeteries in which Jews are buried are not included in this list.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27282576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27282576", "title": "List of people executed for witchcraft", "text": "List of people executed for witchcraft\n\nWitch-hunts also took place during the 17th century in the American colonies. These were particularly common in the colonies of Massachusetts, Connecticut and New Haven. The myth of the witch had a strong cultural presence in 17th century New England and, as in Europe, witchcraft was strongly associated with devil-worship. About eighty people were accused of practicing witchcraft in a witch-hunt that lasted throughout New England from 1647 to 1663. Thirteen women and two men were executed. The Salem witch trials followed in 1692–93, culminating in the executions of 20 people. 5 others died in jail.\n\nIt has been estimated that tens of thousands of people were executed for witchcraft in Europe and the American colonies over several hundred years. Although it is not possible to ascertain the exact number, modern scholars estimate around 40,000–50,000. Common methods of execution for convicted witches were hanging, drowning and burning. Burning was often favoured, particularly in Europe, as it was considered a more painful way to die. Prosecutors in the American colonies generally preferred hanging in cases of witchcraft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3703774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3703774", "title": "Louis de la Corne, Chevalier de la Corne", "text": "Louis de la Corne, Chevalier de la Corne\n\nLouis de la Corne or Louis Chapt, Chevalier de la Corne (June 6, 1703 – November 15, 1761) was born at Fort Frontenac in what is now Kingston, Ontario, Canada, and began his career in the colonial regular troops as a second ensign in 1722 and was made full ensign five years later.\n\nHe married in 1728 and began investing heavily in the commerce of the fur trade while continuing his military career. This was a common practice of the time. In the next few years both careers flourished. He received promotions to lieutenant and then captain six years later.\n\nDuring King George's War, he had serious combat experience in Acadia for which he was awarded the cross of Saint Louis in May 1749 for his actions at the Battle of Grand Pre. During Father Le Loutre's War he was involved in other hostile military operations as well as organizing militias amongst new settlers in new territories (see Battle at Chignecto).\n\nIn 1752, La Corne began a three-year appointment as the western commander of the \"poste de l’Ouest\", (the French name for the posts started by Pierre Gaultier de Varennes et de La Vérendrye).\n\nHe succeeded Jacques Legardeur de Saint-Pierre and set out in June 1753 with 57 men, leaving his brother Luc de la Corne to coordinate additional resources. He crossed paths with Saint-Pierre north of Lake Superior and was briefed on what he would find in the west. During his tenure in the west, La Corne appears to have been an active commander. He improved Fort Paskoya (Le Pas, Man.), built Fort Saint-Louis (Fort de la Corne, Saskatchewan) and explored the Carrot River valley. He was succeeded by Louis-Joseph Gaultier de La Vérendrye who was Commander of the West from 1756 to 1758. (Because of the Seven Years' War, La Vérendrye never actually came west but carried out the business through agents.)\n\nBy July 1755, La Corne was back east and was heavily involved in military matters for the next five years, patrolling the Montreal to Lake Ontario waterway with a large contingent of men. More military recognition for his role was recommended but never occurred. He was to be deported to France in 1761 and was one of the victims when the ship, \"Auguste\" sank off the coast of Cape Breton Island on November 15 of that year.\n\n"}
{"id": "2266644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2266644", "title": "Multilayer perceptron", "text": "Multilayer perceptron\n\nA multilayer perceptron (MLP) is a class of feedforward artificial neural network. An MLP consists of, at least, three layers of nodes: an input layer, a hidden layer and an output layer. Except for the input nodes, each node is a neuron that uses a nonlinear activation function. MLP utilizes a supervised learning technique called backpropagation for training. Its multiple layers and non-linear activation distinguish MLP from a linear perceptron. It can distinguish data that is not linearly separable.\n\nMultilayer perceptrons are sometimes colloquially referred to as \"vanilla\" neural networks, especially when they have a single hidden layer.\n\n<section begin=theory />\nIf a multilayer perceptron has a linear activation function in all neurons, that is, a linear function that maps the weighted inputs to the output of each neuron, then linear algebra shows that any number of layers can be reduced to a two-layer input-output model. In MLPs some neurons use a \"nonlinear\" activation function that was developed to model the frequency of action potentials, or firing, of biological neurons.\n\nThe two common activation functions are both sigmoids, and are described by\n\nThe first is a hyperbolic tangent that ranges from -1 to 1, while the other is the logistic function, which is similar in shape but ranges from 0 to 1. Here formula_2 is the output of the formula_3th node (neuron) and formula_4 is the weighted sum of the input connections. Alternative activation functions have been proposed, including the rectifier and softplus functions. More specialized activation functions include radial basis functions (used in radial basis networks, another class of supervised neural network models).\n\nThe MLP consists of three or more layers (an input and an output layer with one or more \"hidden layers\") of nonlinearly-activating nodes. Since MLPs are fully connected, each node in one layer connects with a certain weight formula_5 to every node in the following layer.\n\nLearning occurs in the perceptron by changing connection weights after each piece of data is processed, based on the amount of error in the output compared to the expected result. This is an example of supervised learning, and is carried out through backpropagation, a generalization of the least mean squares algorithm in the linear perceptron.\n\nWe represent the error in output node formula_6 in the formula_7th data point (training example) by formula_8, where formula_9 is the target value and formula_10 is the value produced by the perceptron. The node weights are adjusted based on corrections that minimize the error in the entire output, given by\n\nUsing gradient descent, the change in each weight is\n\nwhere formula_2 is the output of the previous neuron and formula_14 is the \"learning rate\", which is selected to ensure that the weights quickly converge to a response, without oscillations.\n\nThe derivative to be calculated depends on the induced local field formula_15, which itself varies. It is easy to prove that for an output node this derivative can be simplified to\n\nwhere formula_17 is the derivative of the activation function described above, which itself does not vary. The analysis is more difficult for the change in weights to a hidden node, but it can be shown that the relevant derivative is\n\nThis depends on the change in weights of the formula_19th nodes, which represent the output layer. So to change the hidden layer weights, the output layer weights change according to the derivative of the activation function, and so this algorithm represents a backpropagation of the activation function.\n<section end=theory />\n\nThe term \"multilayer perceptron\" does not refer to a single perceptron that has multiple layers. Rather, it contains many perceptrons that are organized into layers. An alternative is \"multilayer perceptron network\". Moreover, MLP \"perceptrons\" are not perceptrons in the strictest possible sense. True perceptrons are formally a special case of artificial neurons that use a threshold activation function such as the Heaviside step function. MLP perceptrons can employ arbitrary activation functions. A true perceptron performs binary classification (either this or that), an MLP neuron is free to either perform classification or regression, depending upon its activation function.\n\nThe term \"multilayer perceptron\" later was applied without respect to nature of the nodes/layers, which can be composed of arbitrarily defined artificial neurons, and not perceptrons specifically. This interpretation avoids the loosening of the definition of \"perceptron\" to mean an artificial neuron in general.\n\nMLPs are useful in research for their ability to solve problems stochastically, which often allows approximate solutions for extremely complex problems like fitness approximation.\n\nMLPs are universal function approximators as showed by Cybenko's theorem, so they can be used to create mathematical models by regression analysis. As classification is a particular case of regression when the response variable is categorical, MLPs make good classifier algorithms.\n\nMLPs were a popular machine learning solution in the 1980s, finding applications in diverse fields such as speech recognition, image recognition, and machine translation software, but thereafter faced strong competition from much simpler (and related) support vector machines. Interest in backpropagation networks returned due to the successes of deep learning.\n\n"}
{"id": "10537692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10537692", "title": "Murder of Grace Brown", "text": "Murder of Grace Brown\n\nGrace Mae Brown (March 20, 1886 – July 12, 1906) was an American skirt factory worker whose murder caused a nationwide sensation, and whose life inspired the fictional character Roberta Alden in Theodore Dreiser's novel \"An American Tragedy\" as well as Jennifer Donnelly's novel \"A Northern Light\". The facts of the real murder are laid out in the two non-fiction books, both published in 1986: \"Adirondack Tragedy: The Gillette Murder Case of 1906\", written by Joseph W. Brownell and Patricia A. Wawrzaszek, and \"Murder in the Adirondacks: An American Tragedy Revisited\", by Craig Brandon.\n\nBrown grew up in South Otselic, New York, the daughter of a successful Chenango County farmer. She was reportedly given the nickname \"Billy\" because of her love of the contemporary hit song \"Won't You Come Home Bill Bailey\"; Brown often signed her love letters \"The Kid\" after the Western outlaw Billy the Kid. She attended grammar school in the village, and became close friends with teacher Maud Kenyon Crumb and her husband. In 1904, she moved to nearby Cortland to live with a married sister, and went to work at the Gillette Skirt Company.\n\nChester Gillette, the company owner's nephew, moved to Cortland in 1905, and began a romantic and sexual relationship with Brown. In Spring 1906, Brown became pregnant, and she returned to her parents in South Otselic. Gillette agreed to take her away to the Adirondacks, apparently promising marriage. Because Brown packed her entire wardrobe for the trip and Gillette packed just a small suitcase, some 21st-century historians conjecture that Gillette had promised to take Brown to a maternity home in upstate New York. Gillette and Brown stayed for a night in Utica, New York, and then continued by train to Tupper Lake in Franklin County, spending the night. Rain the next day ruined their plans for a outing on a nearby lake, so they returned south again by train to Big Moose Lake in Herkimer County, New York. \n\nOn July 11, the couple were seen rowing out on Big Moose Lake near Covewood Lodge. Gillette had entered the pseudonym \"Carl Grahm\" in the hotel register (Gillette's suitcase was monogrammed \"C.E.G.\", and he was careful to choose a name with the same initials). Gillette is believed to have struck Brown over the head with a tennis racket, and she fell out of the boat and drowned. Gillette returned alone, and gave varying explanations for what had occurred. Brown's body was found the next day, and Gillette was arrested in the nearby town of Inlet, New York. The defense at trial claimed that Grace was perplexed, and just jumped out of the boat and into the water, despite being fully clothed. Gillette testified, \"We talked a little more, then she got up and jumped in the water, just jumped in.\"\n\nIn Gillette's rented room, authorities confiscated Brown's love letters to Gillette as evidence. District attorney George Ward read the letters aloud to the court during the trial in the fall of 1906, and Brown's letters gave the trial national attention. Brown pleaded with Gillette in the letters to accept responsibility for her pregnancy. In her final letter, written July 5, Brown looked forward to her impending Adirondack trip with Gillette, and she said farewell to her childhood home of South Otselic, wishing she could confess her pregnancy to her mother: \"I know I shall never see any of them again. And mamma! Great heavens, how I do love Mamma! I don't know what I shall do without her (...) Sometimes I think if I could tell mamma, but I can't. She has trouble enough as it is, and I couldn't break her heart like that. If I come back dead, perhaps if she does not know, she won't be angry with me.\"\n\nCopies of Brown's love letters were published in booklet form, and even sold outside the courtroom during the trial. Theodore Dreiser paraphrased many of the actual letters in \"An American Tragedy\", quoting the final letter almost verbatim. Jennifer Donnelly used many of the actual letters in \"A Northern Light\". Letters written between the two, as well as the diary of Gillette, have been donated to Hamilton College.\n\nThe trial lasted three weeks, and resulted in a guilty verdict and a death sentence. The New York Court of Appeals affirmed the judgement, and Governor Charles Evans Hughes refused to grant clemency.\n\nGillette was executed on March 30, 1908 in Auburn Correctional Facility by electrocution.\n\nA Place in the Sun is a 1951 American drama film based on the 1925 novel An American Tragedy by Theodore Dreiser\n\n\n\"An American Tragedy\": Tobias Picker; 2005 opera premiered in the Lincoln Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "43880146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43880146", "title": "Murder of Hannah Graham", "text": "Murder of Hannah Graham\n\nHannah Elizabeth Graham (February 25, 1996 – September 13, 2014) was an 18-year-old second-year British American student at the University of Virginia who went missing on September 13, 2014. She was last seen early in the morning that day, at the Downtown Mall in Charlottesville, Virginia. Five weeks later, her remains were discovered on an abandoned property in nearby Albemarle County. Jesse Matthew pled guilty to murdering Graham and was given a lifetime prison sentence. He was also found guilty and sentenced to three additional lifetimes for other, previous crimes.\n\nGraham's friends last heard from her via text message at about 1:20 am that day, after she told them she was on her way to a party, but was lost. She had attended another party before disappearing. According to surveillance footage and witness testimony, among the last places she was seen was at Tempo Restaurant with Jesse Leeroy Matthew Jr., a 32-year-old man and person of interest. A witness also said that Matthew was seen in the restaurant holding an arm around Graham, and that she looked drunk. Because Graham was below the US legal drinking age, Tempo Restaurant could face legal action if these sightings are confirmed.\n\nThe last witness to see Hannah Graham alive says that Graham was with a man who \"did not look friendly.\" As Graham was standing by a vehicle identified to be Matthew's orange 1998 Chrysler Sebring, the witness heard her say, \"I'm not getting in that car with you!\"\nOver a decade earlier, Matthew was twice accused of sexual assault at two separate Virginia colleges he attended as a student; he left each school immediately after each allegation. The reported assaults occurred within an 11-month period of each other: from 2002 to 2003 as Jesse Leeroy \"LJ\" Matthew, Jr. moved from the evangelical Christian Liberty University in Lynchburg to the Christopher Newport University in Newport News. Police investigated each report, but in neither incident was a criminal case brought against him.\n\nOn September 20, a volunteer search for Graham took place throughout Charlottesville. Over 1,000 volunteers were reported to have been involved in the search.\n\nOn September 25, Charlottesville police chief Timothy Longo said he believed that Graham was either in Charlottesville or one of the surrounding nine counties, and asked property owners to search for her on their own land. The Department of Emergency Management organized two-person search teams in the search for Graham and estimated that as of September 26, those crews spent 44 hours in the field since the volunteer search.\n\nOn October 18, 2014, human remains were found at an abandoned property in Albemarle County, Virginia, by searchers from the Chesterfield County Sheriff's Office. At a press conference later that day, Chief Longo stated that the remains had not been positively identified as Graham; however, authorities informed Graham's parents of the discovery. The remains were sent to the Chief Medical Examiner's office in Richmond for identification. On October 24, the remains were positively identified as Graham. That same day, Graham's parents visited the property where she was found. On November 18, \"The Washington Post\" reported that a cause for Graham's death was determined but was withheld at the request of law enforcement. Later that day, the Albemarle County Police Department reversed course, releasing that Graham died of homicide by an \"undetermined etiology\".\n\nOn September 19, the local police identified a man they described as a \"person of interest\" whom they saw on surveillance cameras leaving a bar with Graham. The police have concluded that Graham may have gotten into a car with this man. They also searched the man's car and apartment, but declined to arrest or identify him at that time. The police identified the \"person of interest\" as Jesse L. Matthew, Jr. the following day, in an effort to make contact with him for further questioning. Police again searched Matthew's apartment on September 22; during the search, they took items of clothing from his apartment, but would not elaborate on the importance of these items. Police described the searches as a major break in the case and offered a $100,000 reward for information relating to Graham's disappearance.\n\nOn September 21, the police issued an arrest warrant for reckless driving by Jesse Matthew. On September 23, Longo announced that Matthew had been charged with abduction with intent to defile. On September 24, Longo, during a joint press conference with the FBI, announced that the suspect had been arrested in a sparsely populated part of Galveston County, Texas after being recognized by a woman on a beach.\n\nThe suspect has been forensically linked by the Virginia State Police to the murder of Morgan Dana Harrington.\n\nOn September 29, 2014, it was reported that forensic evidence taken from the investigation into the murder of Morgan Dana Harrington matched evidence taken from Jesse Matthew. Sources close to the Graham investigation added that Harrington interacted with Matthew on the night she disappeared. Graham's remains were found about five miles from the location where Harrington's remains were discovered. Matthew attended Liberty University, and later, Christopher Newport University; he was accused of sexual assault once at each of those universities. The first alleged incident occurred on October 17, 2002, and the second on September 7, 2003.\n\nOn September 15, 2015, Matthew was formally charged with first degree murder and abduction with intent to defile in the murder of Morgan Harrington. In a February 29, 2016 letter to news media, prosecutors said Matthew would plead guilty. Matthew pled guilty and received four additional life terms. He is currently at Red Onion State Prison.\n\nMatthew's first court appearance was scheduled for December 4, 2014. Matthew's attorney stated that he would not ask the court for bail for his client. On February 10, 2015, Albemarle County commonwealth's attorney Denise Lunsford announced that Matthew was being indicted for first-degree murder of Graham, in addition to the abduction charges. On May 5, 2015, prosecutors announced that Matthew would be charged with capital murder. The increased charge of capital murder meant that Matthew could have faced the death penalty if convicted. The trial date was set for July 5, 2016. On March 2, 2016, Matthew pled guilty. Later, Matthew received four additional life terms.\n\nOn October 20, 2014, Matthew was indicted on charges of attempted murder, object sexual penetration, and abduction with intent to defile from an incident that occurred in September 2005 in Fairfax, Virginia. On November 14, 2014, Matthew pleaded not guilty to the charges, and a trial was set to begin on March 9, 2015. On February 6, 2015, the Fairfax trial was postponed, with a new trial to be set on February 13. On February 18, Matthew appeared in court, where Albemarle County Circuit Judge Cheryl Higgins scheduled his jury trial to begin on June 29. However, the trial began on June 8, and on June 10, Matthew abruptly entered an Alford plea, and was convicted on all charges. On October 2, 2015, Matthew was sentenced to three life terms in the Fairfax case.\n\nAfter Graham's remains were discovered and identified, students at the University of Virginia erected a memorial on campus in her honor. The World Bank also holds an annual award for innovations to reduce gender based violence held in memory of Hannah Graham.\n"}
{"id": "74773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74773", "title": "Nero Claudius Drusus", "text": "Nero Claudius Drusus\n\nNero Claudius Drusus Germanicus (January 14, 38 BC – summer of 9 BC), born Decimus Claudius Drusus, also called Drusus Claudius Nero, Drusus, Drusus I, Nero Drusus, or Drusus the Elder was a Roman politician and military commander. He was a patrician Claudian on his legal father's side but his maternal grandmother was from a plebeian family. He was the son of Livia Drusilla and the legal stepson of her second husband, the Emperor Augustus. He was also brother of the Emperor Tiberius, father to both the Emperor Claudius and general Germanicus, paternal grandfather of the Emperor Caligula, and maternal great-grandfather of the Emperor Nero.\n\nHe launched the first major Roman campaigns across the Rhine and began the conquest of Germania, becoming the first Roman general to reach the Weser and Elbe rivers. In 12 BC, Drusus led a successful campaign into Germania, subjugating the Sicambri. Later that year he led a naval expedition against Germanic tribes along the North Sea coast, conquering the Batavi and the Frisii, and defeating the Chauci near the mouth of the Weser. In 11 BC, he conquered the Usipetes and the Marsi, extending Roman control to the Upper Weser. In 10 BC, he launched a campaign against the Chatti and the resurgent Sicambri, subjugating both. The following year, while serving as consul, he conquered the Mattiaci and defeated the Marcomanni and the Cherusci, the latter near the Elbe. However, Drusus died later that year, depriving Rome of one of its best generals.\n\nDrusus was the youngest son of Livia Drusilla from her marriage to Tiberius Claudius Nero, who was legally declared his father before the couple divorced. Drusus was born between mid-March and mid-April 38 BC, three months after Livia married Augustus on 17 January. Gerhard Radke has proposed the date of March 28 as his most likely birthday, while Lindsay Powell interprets Ovid's \"Fasti\" as indicating a date of 13 January. Rumors arose that Augustus was the child's real father, although this has never been authoritatively proven. Claudius, however, encouraged the rumor during his reign as emperor to create an impression of more direct lineage from Augustus.\n\nAccording to Suetonius, Drusus was originally given \"Decimus\" as his praenomen, the first of a Roman male's conventional three names in Roman naming practice at the time. \"Nero\" was a traditional cognomen (third name) of the Claudii, whereas \"Drusus\" was given to a branch of the \"gens Livia\". Using a cognomen such as \"Nero\" as a first name was unusual, as was the prominence given to his maternal lineage in adopting \"Drusus\" as his cognomen.\n\nDrusus was raised in Claudius Nero's house with his brother, the future emperor Tiberius, until his legal father's death. The two brothers developed a famously close relationship that would last the rest of their lives. Tiberius named his eldest son after his brother, and Drusus did likewise, although eldest sons were usually named after their father or grandfather.\n\nDrusus married Antonia Minor, the daughter of Mark Antony and Augustus' sister, Octavia Minor, and gained a reputation of being completely faithful to her. Their children were Germanicus, Claudius, a daughter named Livilla ('little Livia'), and at least two others who did not survive infancy. After Drusus' death, Antonia never remarried, though she outlived him by nearly five decades. Three emperors were direct descendants of Drusus: his son Claudius, his grandson Caligula, and his great-grandson Nero.\n\nAugustus bestowed many honors on his stepsons. In 19 BC, Drusus was granted the ability to hold all public offices five years before the minimum age. When Tiberius left Italy during his term as praetor in 16 BC, Drusus legislated in his place. He became quaestor the following year, fighting against Raetian bandits in the Alps. Drusus repelled them, gaining honors, but was unable to smash their forces, and required reinforcement from Tiberius. The brothers easily defeated the local Alpine tribes.\n\nDrusus arrived in Gaul in late 15 BCE to serve as \"legatus Augusti pro praetore\" (governor on Augustus' behalf with the authority of a praetor) of the three Gaulish provinces. His contribution to the ongoing building and urban development in Gaul can be seen in the establishment of the \"pes Drusianus\", or ‘Drusian foot’, of about , which was in use in Samarobriva (modern Amiens) and among the Tungri. From 14 to 13 BCE, Augustus himself was also active in Gaul, whether in Lugdunum (modern Lyon) or along the Rhine frontier.\n\nAs governor of Gaul, Drusus made his headquarters at Lugdunum, where he decided to establish the \"concilium Galliarum\" or ‘council of the Gaulish provinces’ sometime between 14 and 12 BCE. This council would elect from its members a priest to celebrate games and venerate Rome and Augustus as deities every 1 August at the altar of the three Gauls that Drusus established at Condate in 10 BCE. Drusus' son Tiberius—the future emperor Claudius—was born in Lugdunum on the same day that this altar was inaugurated.\n\nStarting in 14 BCE, Drusus built a string of military bases along the Rhine—fifty according to Florus—and established an alliance with the Batavi in preparation for military action in Germania Libera. He is likely to have had seven legions under his command. In spring of 12 BCE, he embarked an expeditionary force, perhaps consisting of the Legiones I Germanica and V Alaudae, by ship from the vicinity of modern Nijmegen, making use of one or more canals he had built for the purpose. Drusus sailed to the mouth of the Ems and penetrated into the territory of the Chauci in present-day Lower Saxony. The Chauci concluded a treaty acknowledging Roman supremacy, and would remain allies of Rome for years to come. As they continued to ascend the Ems, the Romans were attacked by the Bructeri in boats. Drusus' forces defeated the Bructeri, but, as it was now late in the campaign season, turned back for their winter quarters in Gaul, taking advantage of their new alliance with the Frisii to navigate through the difficult conditions on the North Sea.\n\nAs a reward for the successes of his campaign in 12 BCE, Drusus was made \"praetor urbanus\" for 11 BCE when he returned to Rome for the winter. News of Drusus' achievements—navigating the North Sea, carrying the Roman eagles into new territory, and fixing new peoples into treaty relations with Rome—caused considerable excitement in Rome and were commemorated on coins.\n\nDrusus did not have it in him to stay in Rome. In the spring of his term as \"praetor urbanus\", he set out for the German border once more. This time, he assembled a force consisting of all or part of five legions in addition to auxiliaries and, setting out from Vetera on the Rhine, ascended the River Lippe. Here he encountered the Tencteri and Usipetes, whom he defeated in two separate engagements. He reached the Werra Valley before deciding to turn back for the season, as winter was coming on, supplies were dwindling, and the omens were unfavorable. While his forces were making their way back through the territory of the Cherusci, the latter tribe laid an ambush for them at Arbalo. The Cherusci failed to capitalize on their initial advantage, whereupon the Romans broke through their lines, defeated the Germanic attackers, and acclaimed Drusus as \"imperator\". To show his continued mastery of the ground, Drusus garrisoned a number of positions within Germania during the winter of 11–10 BCE, including one somewhere in Hesse and one in Cheruscan territory, probably either at Haltern or Bergkamen-Oberaden, both in present-day North Rhine–Westphalia.\n\nHe rejoined his wife Antonia and two children for a time in Lugdunum before the family returned to Rome, where Drusus reported to Augustus. Drusus was given the honor of an ovation, and for the second time, Augustus closed the doors of the Temple of Janus, signifying that the whole Roman world was then at peace.\nDrusus was granted the office of proconsul for the following year. In 10 BC, the Chatti joined with the Sicambri and attacked Drusus' camp, but they were driven back. Drusus pursued them, proceeding from the sites of present-day Mainz and , where he set up a base of supply, to Hedemünden, where a strong new camp was established. Around this time, the canny Marcomannic king Maroboduus responded to the Roman incursion by relocating his people \"en masse\" to Bohemia. In summer of 10 BCE, Drusus left the field in order to return to Lugdunum, where he inaugurated the sanctuary of the Three Gaulish provinces at Condate on 1 August. Augustus and Tiberius were in Lugdunum for this occasion (when Drusus' youngest son Claudius was born), and afterwards Drusus accompanied them back to Rome.\n\nDrusus easily won election as consul for the year 9 BCE. Once more he left the city before assuming office. His consulship conferred the chance for Drusus to attain Rome's highest and rarest military honor, the \"spolia opima\", or spoils of an enemy chieftain slain personally by an opposing Roman general who was fighting (as consuls did) under his own auspices. He quickly returned to the field, stopping to confer with his staff at Lugdunum and to dedicate a temple to Caesar Augustus at Andemantunnum, before rejoining his command at Mainz, from which the year's expedition departed in early spring. Drusus led the army via Rödgen through the territories of the Marsi and Cherusci until he even crossed the river Elbe. Here he is said to have seen an apparition of a Germanic woman who warned him against proceeding farther and that his death was near. Drusus turned back, erecting a trophy to commemorate his reaching the Elbe, perhaps on the site of Dresden or Magdeburg.\n\nDrusus had sought out multiple Germanic (at least three) chieftains during his campaigns in Germany (12 BCE–9 BCE), engaging them in \"dazzling displays of single combat\". The sources are ambiguous, but imply that at some point he did take the \"spolia opima\" from a Germanic king, thus becoming the fourth and final Roman to gain this honor.\n\nDrusus was returning from his advance to the Elbe when he fell from his horse, lingering on for a month after the accident, by which point Tiberius had joined him. Shortly before his death he wrote a letter to Tiberius complaining about the style in which Augustus ruled. Suetonius reports that he had refused to return to Rome just before his death. Drusus' body was brought back to the city, and his ashes were deposited in the Mausoleum of Augustus. He remained extremely popular with the legionaries, who erected a monument (the Drususstein) in \"Mogontiacum\" (modern Mainz) on his behalf. Remnants of this are still standing. His family was granted the hereditary honorific title \"Germanicus\", which was given to his eldest son before passing to his youngest. Augustus later wrote a biography of him which does not survive. By Augustus' decree, festivals were held in Mogontiacum at Drusus' death day and probably also on his birthday.\n\nDrusus' mother Livia, much affected by the death of her second son, took the advice of the philosopher Areus to put up many statues and images of Drusus and speak often about him. The surviving Latin work \"Consolatio ad Liviam\" is framed as an Ovidian message of consolation to Livia on this occasion, though it is generally considered a literary exercise \"composed between the death of Livia [29 CE] and that of Tiberius [37 CE]\".\n\nAugustus noted the successes of Drusus' campaigns—for which, as Drusus' superior, he took credit—in his \"Res Gestae Divi Augusti\", written in 14 CE:\n\nUpon Claudius' accession to the principate in 41 CE, his late father Drusus received new public honors, including annual games in the Circus Maximus on January 14 for Drusus' birthday, coin issues commemorating Drusus' victories in Germania, and the restoration of a monument near the Ara Pacis Augustae that featured a statue of Drusus. Claudius also completed a road from Italy into Raetia that followed the route Drusus had taken and whose road-markers commemorated Drusus' achievements in the Alpine war. Such Claudian commemorations of Drusus' memory are thought to have become less prominent once Claudius had his own British triumph to celebrate.\n\nHe is a minor character in Robert Graves' historical novel \"I, Claudius\", as well as the BBC's adaptation of the same title.\n\nThe annual festival celebrating Drusus' death is a main plot element in the second volume of \"the Romanike series\" by Codex Regius (2006-2014).\n\nHe is a prominent character in the \"Hrabam Chronicles\" by Alaric Longward (2016).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24749", "title": "Permian–Triassic extinction event", "text": "Permian–Triassic extinction event\n\nThe Permian–Triassic (P–Tr or P–T) extinction event, colloquially known as the Great Dying, the End-Permian Extinction or the Great Permian Extinction, occurred about 252 Ma (million years) ago, forming the boundary between the Permian and Triassic geologic periods, as well as between the Paleozoic and Mesozoic eras. It is the Earth's most severe known extinction event, with up to 96% of all marine species and 70% of terrestrial vertebrate species becoming extinct. It is the only known mass extinction of insects. Some 57% of all biological families and 83% of all genera became extinct. Because so much biodiversity was lost, the recovery of land-dwelling life took significantly longer than after any other extinction event, possibly up to 10 million years. Studies in Bear Lake County near Paris, Idaho showed a relatively quick rebound in a localized marine ecosystem, taking around 2 million years to recover, suggesting that the impact of the extinction may have been felt less severely in some areas than others.\n\nThere is evidence for one to three distinct pulses, or phases, of extinction. Suggested mechanisms for the latter include one or more large meteor impact events, massive volcanism such as that of the Siberian Traps, and the ensuing coal or gas fires and explosions,<ref name=\"lava/coal fires\"> </ref> and a runaway greenhouse effect triggered by sudden release of methane from the sea floor due to methane clathrate dissociation according to the clathrate gun hypothesis or methane-producing microbes known as methanogens. Possible contributing gradual changes include sea-level change, increasing anoxia, increasing aridity, and a shift in ocean circulation driven by climate change.\n\nUntil 2000, it was thought that rock sequences spanning the Permian–Triassic boundary were too few and contained too many gaps for scientists to reliably determine its details. However, it is now possible to date the extinction with millennial precision. U–Pb zircon dates from five volcanic ash beds from the Global Stratotype Section and Point for the Permian–Triassic boundary at Meishan, China, establish a high-resolution age model for the extinction – allowing exploration of the links between global environmental perturbation, carbon cycle disruption, mass extinction, and recovery at millennial timescales. The extinction occurred between 251.941 ± 0.037 and 251.880 ± 0.031 Ma ago, a duration of 60 ± 48 ka. A large (approximately 0.9%), abrupt global decrease in the ratio of the stable isotope to that of , coincides with this extinction, and is sometimes used to identify the Permian–Triassic boundary in rocks that are unsuitable for radiometric dating. Further evidence for environmental change around the P–Tr boundary suggests an rise in temperature, and an increase in levels by (for comparison, the concentration immediately before the industrial revolution was , and the amount today is about 410 ppm). There is also evidence of increased ultraviolet radiation reaching the earth, causing the mutation of plant spores.\n\nIt has been suggested that the Permian–Triassic boundary is associated with a sharp increase in the abundance of marine and terrestrial fungi, caused by the sharp increase in the amount of dead plants and animals fed upon by the fungi. For a while this \"fungal spike\" was used by some paleontologists to identify the Permian–Triassic boundary in rocks that are unsuitable for radiometric dating or lack suitable index fossils, but even the proposers of the fungal spike hypothesis pointed out that \"fungal spikes\" may have been a repeating phenomenon created by the post-extinction ecosystem in the earliest Triassic. The very idea of a fungal spike has been criticized on several grounds, including: \"Reduviasporonites\", the most common supposed fungal spore, may be a fossilized alga; the spike did not appear worldwide; and in many places it did not fall on the Permian–Triassic boundary. The reduviasporonites may even represent a transition to a lake-dominated Triassic world rather than an earliest Triassic zone of death and decay in some terrestrial fossil beds. Newer chemical evidence agrees better with a fungal origin for \"Reduviasporonites\", diluting these critiques.\n\nUncertainty exists regarding the duration of the overall extinction and about the timing and duration of various groups' extinctions within the greater process. Some evidence suggests that there were multiple extinction pulses or that the extinction was spread out over a few million years, with a sharp peak in the last million years of the Permian. Statistical analyses of some highly fossiliferous strata in Meishan, Zhejiang Province in southeastern China, suggest that the main extinction was clustered around one peak. Recent research shows that different groups became extinct at different times; for example, while difficult to date absolutely, ostracod and brachiopod extinctions were separated by 670 to 1170 thousand years. In a well-preserved sequence in east Greenland, the decline of animals is concentrated in a period 10 to long, with plants taking an additional several hundred thousand years to show the full impact of the event. An older theory, still supported in some recent papers, is that there were two major extinction pulses 9.4 million years apart, separated by a period of extinctions well above the background level, and that the final extinction killed off only about 80% of marine species alive at that time while the other losses occurred during the first pulse or the interval between pulses. According to this theory one of these extinction pulses occurred at the end of the Guadalupian epoch of the Permian.\nFor example, all but one of the surviving dinocephalian genera died out at the end of the Guadalupian, as did the Verbeekinidae, a family of large-size fusuline foraminifera.\nThe impact of the end-Guadalupian extinction on marine organisms appears to have varied between locations and between taxonomic groups — brachiopods and corals had severe losses.\nMarine invertebrates suffered the greatest losses during the P–Tr extinction. Evidence of this was found in samples from south China sections at the P–Tr boundary. Here, 286 out of 329 marine invertebrate genera disappear within the final 2 sedimentary zones containing conodonts from the Permian. The decrease in diversity was probably caused by a sharp increase in extinctions, rather than a decrease in speciation.\n\nThe extinction primarily affected organisms with calcium carbonate skeletons, especially those reliant on stable CO levels to produce their skeletons. These organisms were susceptible to the effects of the ocean acidification that resulted from increased atmospheric CO.\n\nAmong benthic organisms the extinction event multiplied background extinction rates, and therefore caused maximum species loss to taxa that had a high background extinction rate (by implication, taxa with a high turnover). The extinction rate of marine organisms was catastrophic.\n\nSurviving marine invertebrate groups include: articulate brachiopods (those with a hinge), which have undergone a slow decline in numbers since the P–Tr extinction; the Ceratitida order of ammonites; and crinoids (\"sea lilies\"), which very nearly became extinct but later became abundant and diverse.\n\nThe groups with the highest survival rates generally had active control of circulation, elaborate gas exchange mechanisms, and light calcification; more heavily calcified organisms with simpler breathing apparatuses suffered the greatest loss of species diversity. In the case of the brachiopods, at least, surviving taxa were generally small, rare members of a formerly diverse community.\n\nThe ammonoids, which had been in a long-term decline for the 30 million years since the Roadian (middle Permian), suffered a selective extinction pulse 10 million years before the main event, at the end of the Capitanian stage. In this preliminary extinction, which greatly reduced disparity, or the range of different ecological guilds, environmental factors were apparently responsible. Diversity and disparity fell further until the P–Tr boundary; the extinction here (P–Tr) was non-selective, consistent with a catastrophic initiator. During the Triassic, diversity rose rapidly, but disparity remained low.\n\nThe range of morphospace occupied by the ammonoids, that is, their range of possible forms, shapes or structures, became more restricted as the Permian progressed. A few million years into the Triassic, the original range of ammonoid structures was once again reoccupied, but the parameters were now shared differently among clades.\n\nThe Permian had great diversity in insect and other invertebrate species, including the largest insects ever to have existed. The end-Permian is the only known mass extinction of insects, with eight or nine insect orders becoming extinct and ten more greatly reduced in diversity. Palaeodictyopteroids (insects with piercing and sucking mouthparts) began to decline during the mid-Permian; these extinctions have been linked to a change in flora. The greatest decline occurred in the Late Permian and was probably not directly caused by weather-related floral transitions.\n\nMost fossil insect groups found after the Permian–Triassic boundary differ significantly from those before. Of Paleozoic insect groups, only the Glosselytrodea, Miomoptera, and Protorthoptera have been discovered in deposits from after the extinction. The caloneurodeans, monurans, paleodictyopteroids, protelytropterans, and protodonates became extinct by the end of the Permian. In well-documented Late Triassic deposits, fossils overwhelmingly consist of modern fossil insect groups.\n\nThe geological record of terrestrial plants is sparse and based mostly on pollen and spore studies. Plants are relatively immune to mass extinction, with the impact of all the major mass extinctions \"insignificant\" at a family level. Even the reduction observed in species diversity (of 50%) may be mostly due to taphonomic processes. However, a massive rearrangement of ecosystems does occur, with plant abundances and distributions changing profoundly and all the forests virtually disappearing; the Palaeozoic flora scarcely survived this extinction.\n\nAt the P–Tr boundary, the dominant floral groups changed, with many groups of land plants entering abrupt decline, such as \"Cordaites\" (gymnosperms) and \"Glossopteris\" (seed ferns). Dominant gymnosperm genera were replaced post-boundary by lycophytes—extant lycophytes are recolonizers of disturbed areas.\n\nPalynological or pollen studies from East Greenland of sedimentary rock strata laid down during the extinction period indicate dense gymnosperm woodlands before the event. At the same time that marine invertebrate macrofauna declined, these large woodlands died out and were followed by a rise in diversity of smaller herbaceous plants including Lycopodiophyta, both \"Selaginellales\" and \"Isoetales\". Later, other groups of gymnosperms again become dominant but again suffered major die offs. These cyclical flora shifts occurred a few times over the course of the extinction period and afterwards. These fluctuations of the dominant flora between woody and herbaceous taxa indicate chronic environmental stress resulting in a loss of most large woodland plant species. The successions and extinctions of plant communities do not coincide with the shift in values, but occurred many years after. The recovery of gymnosperm forests took 4–5 million years.\n\nNo coal deposits are known from the Early Triassic, and those in the Middle Triassic are thin and low-grade. This \"coal gap\" has been explained in many ways. It has been suggested that new, more aggressive fungi, insects and vertebrates evolved, and killed vast numbers of trees. These decomposers themselves suffered heavy losses of species during the extinction, and are not considered a likely cause of the coal gap. It could simply be that all coal forming plants were rendered extinct by the P–Tr extinction, and that it took 10 million years for a new suite of plants to adapt to the moist, acid conditions of peat bogs. Abiotic factors (factors not caused by organisms), such as decreased rainfall or increased input of clastic sediments, may also be to blame.\n\nOn the other hand, the lack of coal may simply reflect the scarcity of all known sediments from the Early Triassic. Coal-producing ecosystems, rather than disappearing, may have moved to areas where we have no sedimentary record for the Early Triassic. For example, in eastern Australia a cold climate had been the norm for a long period, with a peat mire ecosystem adapted to these conditions. Approximately 95% of these peat-producing plants went \"locally\" extinct at the P–Tr boundary; Coal deposits in Australia and Antarctica disappear significantly \"before\" the P–Tr boundary.\n\nThere is enough evidence to indicate that over two-thirds of terrestrial labyrinthodont amphibians, sauropsid (\"reptile\") and therapsid (\"proto-mammal\") families became extinct. Large herbivores suffered the heaviest losses.\n\nAll Permian anapsid reptiles died out except the procolophonids (although testudines have \"morphologically\" anapsid skulls, they are now thought to have separately evolved from diapsid ancestors). Pelycosaurs died out before the end of the Permian. Too few Permian diapsid fossils have been found to support any conclusion about the effect of the Permian extinction on diapsids (the \"reptile\" group from which lizards, snakes, crocodilians, and dinosaurs (including birds) evolved).\n\nThe groups that survived suffered extremely heavy losses of species, and some terrestrial vertebrate groups very nearly became extinct at the end-Permian. Some of the surviving groups did not persist for long past this period, while others that barely survived went on to produce diverse and long-lasting lineages. Yet it took 30million years for the terrestrial vertebrate fauna to fully recover both numerically and ecologically.\n\nAn analysis of marine fossils from the Permian's final Changhsingian stage found that marine organisms with low tolerance for hypercapnia (high concentration of carbon dioxide) had high extinction rates, while the most tolerant organisms had very slight losses.\n\nThe most vulnerable marine organisms were those that produced calcareous hard parts (i.e., from calcium carbonate) and had low metabolic rates and weak respiratory systems—notably calcareous sponges, rugose and tabulate corals, calcite-depositing brachiopods, bryozoans, and echinoderms; about 81% of such genera became extinct. Close relatives without calcareous hard parts suffered only minor losses, for example sea anemones, from which modern corals evolved. Animals with high metabolic rates, well-developed respiratory systems, and non-calcareous hard parts had negligible losses—except for conodonts, in which 33% of genera died out.\n\nThis pattern is consistent with what is known about the effects of hypoxia, a shortage but not a total absence of oxygen. However, hypoxia cannot have been the only killing mechanism for marine organisms. Nearly all of the continental shelf waters would have had to become severely hypoxic to account for the magnitude of the extinction, but such a catastrophe would make it difficult to explain the very selective pattern of the extinction. Models of the Late Permian and Early Triassic atmospheres show a significant but protracted decline in atmospheric oxygen levels, with no acceleration near the P–Tr boundary. Minimum atmospheric oxygen levels in the Early Triassic are never less than present day levels—the decline in oxygen levels does not match the temporal pattern of the extinction.\n\nMarine organisms are more sensitive to changes in (carbon dioxide) levels than are terrestrial organisms for a variety of reasons. is 28 times more soluble in water than is oxygen. Marine animals normally function with lower concentrations of in their bodies than land animals, as the removal of in air-breathing animals is impeded by the need for the gas to pass through the respiratory system's membranes (lungs' alveolus, tracheae, and the like), even when diffuses more easily than oxygen. In marine organisms, relatively modest but sustained increases in concentrations hamper the synthesis of proteins, reduce fertilization rates, and produce deformities in calcareous hard parts. In addition, an increase in concentration is inevitably linked to ocean acidification, consistent with the preferential extinction of heavily calcified taxa and other signals in the rock record that suggest a more acidic ocean. The decrease in ocean pH is calculated to be up to 0.7 units.\n\nIt is difficult to analyze extinction and survival rates of land organisms in detail, because few terrestrial fossil beds span the Permian–Triassic boundary. Triassic insects are very different from those of the Permian, but a gap in the insect fossil record spans approximately 15 million years from the late Permian to early Triassic. The best-known record of vertebrate changes across the Permian–Triassic boundary occurs in the Karoo Supergroup of South Africa, but statistical analyses have so far not produced clear conclusions. However, analysis of the fossil river deposits of the floodplains indicate a shift from meandering to braided river patterns, indicating an abrupt drying of the climate. The climate change may have taken as little as 100,000 years, prompting the extinction of the unique \"Glossopteris\" flora and its herbivores, followed by the carnivorous guild. End-Permian extinctions did not occur at an instantaneous time horizon; particularly, floral extinction was delayed in time.\n\nEarlier analyses indicated that life on Earth recovered quickly after the Permian extinctions, but this was mostly in the form of disaster taxa, opportunist organisms such as the hardy \"Lystrosaurus\". Research published in 2006 indicates that the specialized animals that formed complex ecosystems, with high biodiversity, complex food webs and a variety of niches, took much longer to recover. It is thought that this long recovery was due to the successive waves of extinction, which inhibited recovery, and prolonged environmental stress to organisms, which continued into the Early Triassic. Research indicates that recovery did not begin until the start of the mid-Triassic, 4 to 6 million years after the extinction; and some writers estimate that the recovery was not complete until after the P–Tr extinction, i.e. in the late Triassic.\n\nA study published in the journal \"Science\" found that during the Great Extinction, ocean surface temperatures reached in some places. This explains why recovery took so long: it was too hot for life to survive. Anoxic waters may have also delayed the recovery.\nDuring the early Triassic (4 to 6 million years after the P–Tr extinction), the plant biomass was insufficient to form coal deposits, which implies a limited food mass for herbivores. River patterns in the Karoo changed from meandering to braided, indicating that vegetation there was very sparse for a long time.\n\nEach major segment of the early Triassic ecosystem—plant and animal, marine and terrestrial—was dominated by a small number of genera, which appeared virtually worldwide, for example: the herbivorous therapsid \"Lystrosaurus\" (which accounted for about 90% of early Triassic land vertebrates) and the bivalves \"Claraia\", \"Eumorphotis\", \"Unionites\" and \"Promylina\". A healthy ecosystem has a much larger number of genera, each living in a few preferred types of habitat.\n\nDisaster taxa took advantage of the devastated ecosystems and enjoyed a temporary population boom and increase in their territory. Microconchids are the dominant component of otherwise impoverished Early Triassic encrusting assemblages. For example: \"Lingula\" (a brachiopod); stromatolites, which had been confined to marginal environments since the Ordovician; \"Pleuromeia\" (a small, weedy plant); \"Dicroidium\" (a seed fern).\n\nPrior to the extinction, about two-thirds of marine animals were sessile and attached to the sea floor. During the Mesozoic, only about half of the marine animals were sessile while the rest were free-living. Analysis of marine fossils from the period indicated a decrease in the abundance of sessile epifaunal suspension feeders such as brachiopods and sea lilies and an increase in more complex mobile species such as snails, sea urchins and crabs.\n\nBefore the Permian mass extinction event, both complex and simple marine ecosystems were equally common; after the recovery from the mass extinction, the complex communities outnumbered the simple communities by nearly three to one, and the increase in predation pressure led to the Mesozoic Marine Revolution.\n\nBivalves were fairly rare before the P–Tr extinction but became numerous and diverse in the Triassic, and one group, the rudist clams, became the Mesozoic's main reef-builders. Some researchers think much of this change happened in the 5 million years between the two major extinction pulses.\n\nCrinoids (\"sea lilies\") suffered a selective extinction, resulting in a decrease in the variety of their forms. Their ensuing adaptive radiation was brisk, and resulted in forms possessing flexible arms becoming widespread; motility, predominantly a response to predation pressure, also became far more prevalent.\n\n\"Lystrosaurus\", a pig-sized herbivorous dicynodont therapsid, constituted as much as 90% of some earliest Triassic land vertebrate fauna. Smaller carnivorous cynodont therapsids also survived, including the ancestors of mammals. In the Karoo region of southern Africa, the therocephalians \"Tetracynodon\", \"Moschorhinus\" and \"Ictidosuchoides\" survived, but do not appear to have been abundant in the Triassic.\n\nArchosaurs (which included the ancestors of dinosaurs and crocodilians) were initially rarer than therapsids, but they began to displace therapsids in the mid-Triassic. In the mid to late Triassic, the dinosaurs evolved from one group of archosaurs, and went on to dominate terrestrial ecosystems during the Jurassic and Cretaceous. This \"Triassic Takeover\" may have contributed to the evolution of mammals by forcing the surviving therapsids and their mammaliform successors to live as small, mainly nocturnal insectivores; nocturnal life probably forced at least the mammaliforms to develop fur and higher metabolic rates, while losing part of the differential color-sensitive retinal receptors reptilians and birds preserved.\n\nSome temnospondyl amphibians made a relatively quick recovery, in spite of nearly becoming extinct. \"Mastodonsaurus\" and trematosaurians were the main aquatic and semiaquatic predators during most of the Triassic, some preying on tetrapods and others on fish.\n\nLand vertebrates took an unusually long time to recover from the P–Tr extinction; Palaeontologist Michael Benton estimated the recovery was not complete until after the extinction, i.e. not until the Late Triassic, in which dinosaurs, pterosaurs, crocodiles, archosaurs, amphibians, and mammaliforms were abundant and diverse.\n\nPinpointing the exact cause or causes of the Permian–Triassic extinction event is difficult, mostly because the catastrophe occurred over 250 million years ago, and since then much of the evidence that would have pointed to the cause has been destroyed or is concealed deep within the Earth under many layers of rock. The sea floor is also completely recycled every 200 million years by the ongoing process of plate tectonics and seafloor spreading, leaving no useful indications beneath the ocean.\n\nScientists have accumulated a fairly significant amount of evidence for causes, and several mechanisms have been proposed for the extinction event. The proposals include both catastrophic and gradual processes (similar to those theorized for the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event).\n\nAny hypothesis about the cause must explain the selectivity of the event, which affected organisms with calcium carbonate skeletons most severely; the long period (4 to 6 million years) before recovery started, and the minimal extent of biological mineralization (despite inorganic carbonates being deposited) once the recovery began.\n\nEvidence that an impact event may have caused the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event (Cretaceous–Tertiary) has led to speculation that similar impacts may have been the cause of other extinction events, including the P–Tr extinction, and thus to a search for evidence of impacts at the times of other extinctions and for large impact craters of the appropriate age.\n\nReported evidence for an impact event from the P–Tr boundary level includes rare grains of shocked quartz in Australia and Antarctica; fullerenes trapping extraterrestrial noble gases; meteorite fragments in Antarctica; and grains rich in iron, nickel and silicon, which may have been created by an impact. However, the accuracy of most of these claims has been challenged. For example, quartz from Graphite Peak in Antarctica, once considered \"shocked\", has been re-examined by optical and transmission electron microscopy. The observed features were concluded to be not due to shock, but rather to plastic deformation, consistent with formation in a tectonic environment such as volcanism.\n\nAn impact crater on the sea floor would be evidence of a possible cause of the P–Tr extinction, but such a crater would by now have disappeared. As 70% of the Earth's surface is currently sea, an asteroid or comet fragment is now perhaps more than twice as likely to hit ocean as it is to hit land. However, Earth's oldest ocean-floor crust is 200 million years old because it is continually destroyed and renewed by spreading and subduction. Thus, craters produced by very large impacts may be masked by extensive flood basalting from below after the crust is punctured or weakened. Yet, subduction should not be entirely accepted as an explanation of why no firm evidence can be found: as with the K-T event, an ejecta blanket stratum rich in siderophilic elements (such as iridium) would be expected to be seen in formations from the time.\n\nA large impact might have triggered other mechanisms of extinction described below, such as the Siberian Traps eruptions at either an impact site or the antipode of an impact site. The abruptness of an impact also explains why more species did not rapidly evolve to survive, as would be expected if the Permian-Triassic event had been slower and less global than a meteorite impact.\n\nSeveral possible impact craters have been proposed as the site of an impact causing the P–Tr extinction, including the Bedout structure off the northwest coast of Australia and the hypothesized Wilkes Land crater of East Antarctica. In each case, the idea that an impact was responsible has not been proven and has been widely criticized. In the case of Wilkes Land, the age of this sub-ice geophysical feature is very uncertain – it may be later than the Permian–Triassic extinction.\n\nThe Araguainha crater in Brazil has been most recently dated to 254.7 ± 2.5 million years ago, overlapping with estimates for the Permo-Triassic boundary. Much of the local rock was oil shale. The estimated energy released by the Araguainha impact is insufficient to be a direct cause of the global mass extinction, but the colossal local earth tremors would have released huge amounts of oil and gas from the shattered rock. The resulting sudden global warming might have precipitated the Permian–Triassic extinction event.\n\nIn May 1992, Michael R. Rampino published an abstract for the American Geophysical Union noting the discovery of a circular gravity anomaly near the Falkland Islands. He suggested this structure might correspond to an impact crater with a diameter of . In August 2017, Rampino, Maximilliano Rocca and Jaime Baez Presser followed up with a paper providing further seismic and magnetic evidence that the structure is an impact crater. Estimates for the age of the structure range up to 250 millions years old. If, in fact, this is an impact crater, it would be substantially larger than the well-known Chicxulub impact crater associated with a later extinction event. However, Dave McCarthy and colleagues from the British Geological Survey not only illustrated that the gravity anomaly is not circular, but that the seismic data presented by Rocca, Rampino and Baez Presser did not cross the proposed crater, nor did it provide any evidence for an impact crater.\n\nThe final stages of the Permian had two flood basalt events. A small one, the Emeishan Traps in China, occurred at the same time as the end-Guadalupian extinction pulse, in an area close to the equator at the time. The flood basalt eruptions that produced the Siberian Traps constituted one of the largest known volcanic events on Earth and covered over with lava. The date of the Siberian Traps eruptions and the extinction event are in good agreement.\n\nThe Emeishan and Siberian Traps eruptions may have caused dust clouds and acid aerosols, which would have blocked out sunlight and thus disrupted photosynthesis both on land and in the photic zone of the ocean, causing food chains to collapse. The eruptions may also have caused acid rain when the aerosols washed out of the atmosphere. That may have killed land plants and molluscs and planktonic organisms which had calcium carbonate shells. The eruptions would also have emitted carbon dioxide, causing global warming. When all of the dust clouds and aerosols washed out of the atmosphere, the excess carbon dioxide would have remained and the warming would have proceeded without any mitigating effects.\n\nThe Siberian Traps had unusual features that made them even more dangerous. Pure flood basalts produce fluid, low-viscosity lava and do not hurl debris into the atmosphere. It appears, however, that 20% of the output of the Siberian Traps eruptions was pyroclastic (consisted of ash and other debris thrown high into the atmosphere), increasing the short-term cooling effect. The basalt lava erupted or intruded into carbonate rocks and into sediments that were in the process of forming large coal beds, both of which would have emitted large amounts of carbon dioxide, leading to stronger global warming after the dust and aerosols settled.\n\nIn January 2011, a team, led by Stephen Grasby of the Geological Survey of Canada—Calgary, reported evidence that volcanism caused massive coal beds to ignite, possibly releasing more than 3 trillion tons of carbon. The team found ash deposits in deep rock layers near what is now Buchanan Lake. According to their article, \"coal ash dispersed by the explosive Siberian Trap eruption would be expected to have an associated release of toxic elements in impacted water bodies where fly ash slurries developed... Mafic megascale eruptions are long-lived events that would allow significant build-up of global ash clouds.\" In a statement, Grasby said, \"In addition to these volcanoes causing fires through coal, the ash it spewed was highly toxic and was released in the land and water, potentially contributing to the worst extinction event in earth history.\" In 2013, a team led by Q. Y. Yang reported the total amounts of important volatiles emitted from the Siberian Traps are 8.5 × 10 Tg CO, 4.4 × 10 Tg CO, 7.0 × 10 Tg HS and 6.8 × 10 Tg SO, the data support a popular notion that the end-Permian mass extinction on the Earth was caused by the emission of enormous amounts of volatiles from the Siberian Traps into the atmosphere.\n\nIn 2015, evidence and a timeline indicated the extinction was caused by events in the Large igneous province of the Siberian Traps.\n\nScientists have found worldwide evidence of a swift decrease of about 1% in the C/C isotope ratio in carbonate rocks from the end-Permian. This is the first, largest, and most rapid of a series of negative and positive excursions (decreases and increases in C/C ratio) that continues until the isotope ratio abruptly stabilised in the middle Triassic, followed soon afterwards by the recovery of calcifying life forms (organisms that use calcium carbonate to build hard parts such as shells).\n\nA variety of factors may have contributed to this drop in the C/C ratio, but most turn out to be insufficient to account fully for the observed amount:\n\nOther hypotheses include mass oceanic poisoning releasing vast amounts of and a long-term reorganisation of the global carbon cycle.\n\nPrior to consideration of the inclusion of roasting carbonate sediments by volcanism, the only proposed mechanism sufficient to cause a global 1% reduction in the C/C ratio was the release of methane from methane clathrates. Carbon-cycle models confirm that it would have had enough effect to produce the observed reduction. Methane clathrates, also known as methane hydrates, consist of methane molecules trapped in cages of water molecules. The methane, produced by methanogens (microscopic single-celled organisms), has a C/C ratio about 6.0% below normal ( −6.0%). At the right combination of pressure and temperature, it gets trapped in clathrates fairly close to the surface of permafrost and in much larger quantities at continental margins (continental shelves and the deeper seabed close to them). Oceanic methane hydrates are usually found buried in sediments where the seawater is at least deep. They can be found up to about below the sea floor, but usually only about below the sea floor.\n\nThe area covered by lava from the Siberian Traps eruptions is about twice as large as was originally thought, and most of the additional area was shallow sea at the time. The seabed probably contained methane hydrate deposits, and the lava caused the deposits to dissociate, releasing vast quantities of methane.\nA vast release of methane might cause significant global warming since methane is a very powerful greenhouse gas. Strong evidence suggests the global temperatures increased by about 6 °C (10.8 °F) near the equator and therefore by more at higher latitudes: a sharp decrease in oxygen isotope ratios (O/O); the extinction of \"Glossopteris\" flora (\"Glossopteris\" and plants that grew in the same areas), which needed a cold climate, with its replacement by floras typical of lower paleolatitudes.\n\nHowever, the pattern of isotope shifts expected to result from a massive release of methane does not match the patterns seen throughout the early Triassic. Not only would such a cause require the release of five times as much methane as postulated for the PETM, but would it also have to be reburied at an unrealistically high rate to account for the rapid increases in the C/C ratio (episodes of high positive ) throughout the early Triassic before it was released again several times.\n\nEvidence for widespread ocean anoxia (severe deficiency of oxygen) and euxinia (presence of hydrogen sulfide) is found from the Late Permian to the Early Triassic. Throughout most of the Tethys and Panthalassic Oceans, evidence for anoxia, including fine laminations in sediments, small pyrite framboids, high uranium/thorium ratios, and biomarkers for green sulfur bacteria, appear at the extinction event.\nHowever, in some sites, including Meishan, China, and eastern Greenland, evidence for anoxia precedes the extinction.\nBiomarkers for green sulfur bacteria, such as isorenieratane, the diagenetic product of isorenieratene, are widely used as indicators of photic zone euxinia because green sulfur bacteria require both sunlight and hydrogen sulfide to survive. Their abundance in sediments from the P-T boundary indicates hydrogen sulfide was present even in shallow waters.\n\nThis spread of toxic, oxygen-depleted water would have been devastating for marine life, producing widespread die-offs. Models of ocean chemistry show that anoxia and euxinia would have been closely associated with hypercapnia (high levels of carbon dioxide).\nThis suggests that poisoning from hydrogen sulfide, anoxia, and hypercapnia acted together as a killing mechanism. Hypercapnia best explains the selectivity of the extinction, but anoxia and euxinia probably contributed to the high mortality of the event. The persistence of anoxia through the Early Triassic may explain the slow recovery of marine life after the extinction. Models also show that anoxic events can cause catastrophic hydrogen sulfide emissions into the atmosphere (see below).\n\nThe sequence of events leading to anoxic oceans may have been triggered by carbon dioxide emissions from the eruption of the Siberian Traps. In that scenario, warming from the enhanced greenhouse effect would reduce the solubility of oxygen in seawater, causing the concentration of oxygen to decline. Increased weathering of the continents due to warming and the acceleration of the water cycle would increase the riverine flux of phosphate to the ocean. The phosphate would have supported greater primary productivity in the surface oceans. The increase in organic matter production would have caused more organic matter to sink into the deep ocean, where its respiration would further decrease oxygen concentrations. Once anoxia became established, it would have been sustained by a positive feedback loop because deep water anoxia tends to increase the recycling efficiency of phosphate, leading to even higher productivity.\n\nA severe anoxic event at the end of the Permian would have allowed sulfate-reducing bacteria to thrive, causing the production of large amounts of hydrogen sulfide in the anoxic ocean. Upwelling of this water may have released massive hydrogen sulfide emissions into the atmosphere and would poison terrestrial plants and animals and severely weaken the ozone layer, exposing much of the life that remained to fatal levels of UV radiation.\nIndeed, biomarker evidence for anaerobic photosynthesis by Chlorobiaceae (green sulfur bacteria) from the Late-Permian into the Early Triassic indicates that hydrogen sulfide did upwell into shallow waters because these bacteria are restricted to the photic zone and use sulfide as an electron donor.\n\nThe hypothesis has the advantage of explaining the mass extinction of plants, which would have added to the methane levels and should otherwise have thrived in an atmosphere with a high level of carbon dioxide. Fossil spores from the end-Permian further support the theory: many show deformities that could have been caused by ultraviolet radiation, which would have been more intense after hydrogen sulfide emissions weakened the ozone layer.\n\nIn the mid-Permian (during the Kungurian age of the Permian's Cisuralian epoch), the earth’s major continental plates were joined, forming a supercontinent called Pangaea, which was surrounded by the superocean, Panthalassa.\n\nOceanic circulation and atmospheric weather patterns during the mid-Permian produced seasonal monsoons near the coasts and an arid climate in the vast continental interior of Pangaea.\n\nThe extent of biologically diverse and ecologically productive coastal areas shrank as the supercontinent formed. The elimination of shallow aquatic environments exposed formerly protected organisms of the rich continental shelves to increased environmental volatility.\n\nAfter the formation of Pangaea (see the diagram \"Marine genus biodiversity\" at the top of this article), the rate of marine life depletion approached catastrophic levels; however, marine life extinction never reached the rate of the \"Big Five\" mass extinctions.\n\nPangaea’s effect on extinctions on land is thought to have been less significant. In fact, the advance of the therapsids and increase in their diversity is attributed to the late Permian, when Pangaea’s global effect was thought to have peaked.\n\nWhile Pangaea’s formation is known to have initiated a long period of marine life extinction, the significance of its impact on the \"Great Dying\" and the end of the Permian is uncertain.\n\nA hypothesis published in 2014 posits that a genus of anaerobic methanogenic archaea known as \"Methanosarcina\" was responsible for the event. Three lines of evidence suggest that these microbes acquired a new metabolic pathway via gene transfer at about that time, enabling them to efficiently metabolize acetate into methane. That would have led to their exponential reproduction, allowing them to rapidly consume vast deposits of organic carbon that had accumulated in the marine sediment. The result would have been a sharp buildup of methane and carbon dioxide in the Earth's oceans and atmosphere, in a manner that may be consistent with the C/C isotopic record. Massive volcanism facilitated this process by releasing large amounts of nickel, a scarce metal which is a cofactor for enzymes involved in producing methane. On the other hand, in the canonical Meishan sections, the nickel concentration increases somewhat after the concentrations have begun to fall.\n\nPossible causes supported by strong evidence appear to describe a sequence of catastrophes, each worse than the last: the Siberian Traps eruptions were bad enough alone, but because they occurred near coal beds and the continental shelf, they also triggered very large releases of carbon dioxide and methane. The resultant global warming may have caused perhaps the most severe anoxic event in the oceans' history: according to this theory, the oceans became so anoxic, anaerobic sulfur-reducing organisms dominated the chemistry of the oceans and caused massive emissions of toxic hydrogen sulfide.\n\nHowever, there may be some weak links in this chain of events: the changes in the C/C ratio expected to result from a massive release of methane do not match the patterns seen throughout the early Triassic; and the types of oceanic thermohaline circulation that may have existed at the end of the Permian are not likely to have supported deep-sea anoxia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52325585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52325585", "title": "Persecution of Degar Peoples in Vietnam", "text": "Persecution of Degar Peoples in Vietnam\n\nThe native inhabitants of the Central Highlands are the Degar (Montagnard) peoples. The Vietnamese conquered the Central Highlands during their \"march to the south\" (Nam tiến). Ethnic Vietnamese (Kinh) people now outnumber the indigenous Degars (considered derogatory term) after state-sponsored colonization directed by both the government of South Vietnam and the current Communist government of unified Vietnam. The Montagnards have engaged in conflicts with the Vietnamese, from the anti-Communist South Vietnamese government, the Viet Cong, to the Communist government of unified Vietnam. There are contrasting views on this issue, as the constitution of the government of Vietnam states \"Article 36 of the Constitution, the state invests heavily in education and supports various preferential programmes for ethnic minorities, like ethnic minority boarding schools, lower entry requirements and quota for minorities.\" Both the initial 1945 constitute and the revised 1992 constitution of North Vietnam and the successor state the Socialist Republic of Vietnam stated that all minority groups in Vietnam have the right to maintain their mother tongues in their schooling as well as to use their languages to preserve their ethnic cultures and values.\n\nThe Champa state and Chams in the lowlands til 1471 were traditional suzerains whom the Montagnards in the highlands acknowledged as their lords, while autonomy was held by the Montagnards. After World War II concept of \"Nam tiến\" and the southward conquest was celebrated by Vietnamese scholars. The Pays Montagnard du Sud-Indochinois was the name of the Central Highlands from 1946 under French Indochina.\n\nUp until French rule, the Central Highlands was alleged by one American source as almost never entered by the Vietnamese since they viewed it as a savage (Moi-Montaganrd) populated area with fierce animals like tigers, \"poisoned water\" and \"evil malevolent spirits\", but the Vietnamese expressed interest in the land after the French transformed it into a profitable plantation area to grow crops on, in addition to the natural resources from the forests, minerals and rich earth and realization of its crucial geographical importance. However, the French tactic of divide-and-conquer to fragment national independent movements was also used, using specially-recruited Montagnard divisions and troops and dividing the region.\n\nIn 1955, Northern Vietnamese migrants were settled in the Central Highlands after the autonomous Montagnard area was abolished by Ngô Đình Diệm. Y Bham Enuol founded Bajaraka on January 5, 1958 to resist the discrimination, Vietnamese settlement on Highlands and forced assimilation by the South Vietnamese government. The United Nations Secretary-General and foreign embassies were contacted by Y Bham Enuol. \"Front for the Liberation of the Highlands of Champa\" (Mặt Trận Giải Phóng Cao Nguyên Champa) and Bajaraka were both headed by Y Bham Enuol. He was killed by the Khmer Rouge on April 20, 1975. The support of Central Highlands tribe was seen as essential to Hanoi's war strategy, and various tribes had supported the National Liberation Front, with a Christian Rade people Y Bih Aleo serving as the vice-President of the NLF. Several Montagnard agents had assisted PAVN attacks against U.S Special Forces camps and personnel within the region, and their antagonism with the Army of the Republic of Vietnam caused them to not warn them of attacks during the 1975 campaigns.\n\nLes Kosem, Y Bham Enuol and Prince Norodom Sihanouk worked together to found FULRO and launch an uprising against the South Vietnamese government to regain their land from the Vietnamese colonizers. Since 1964 the Montagnards of FULRO struggled for their own country and continued to fight against the Vietnamese Communist regime which persecuted them for their religious beliefs. After mass jailings and killings during the 2001 and 2004 protests by ethnic hill tribe minorities against the Vietnamese regime, foreigners were banned from the Central Highlands for a period of time by Vietnam.\n\nThe Montagnard inhabited Central Highlands became open to the Vietnamese only under French rule. The word savage (moi) was used by the Vietnamese against the Montagnard Degars. Both the South Vietnamese and the united Communist Vietnam government were fought against by the FULRO Degar fighters for the sake of the Central Highlands and Montagnard people under the direction of Y-Bham Enuol. The Montagnards in FULRO fought the Vietnamese for twenty years after the end of the Vietnam War and the scale of Vietnamese attacks on the Montagnards are alleged by one US author as having killed over 200,000 Montagnards after 1975 during the war between FULRO and Vietnam in the Central Highlands, as the Vietnamese lease land for Japanese companies to harvest lumber in the area. Munitions, weapons, and 5,000 rifles were given by the Chinese to some Montagnard groups after some Montagnards requested help from China via Thai General Savit-Yun K-Yut since the United States refused to help the FULRO Montagnards against the Vietnamese. These figures have not been validated by independent sources or third parties, however. Degar courts were abolished by South Vietnam and the Central Highlands became flooded with Vietnamese colonizers under the direction of South Vietnam. Torture and mass arrests by the Vietnamese military were used in the Central Highlands against the Degar during the February 2001 protests against Vietnamese oppression.\n\nThe Chinese, the Central Highlands Montagnards, Cham, and Delta Cambodians (Khmer Krom) were all alienated by the South Vietnamese government under Diem. The Montagnard Highlands were subjected to colonization by ethnic Vietnamese under Diem. A complete rejection of Vietnamese rule was felt by non-NLF tribes of the Montagnards in 1963.\n\nThe Vietnamese were originally centered around the Red River Delta but engaged in conquest and seized new lands such as Champa, the Mekong Delta (from Cambodia) and the Central Highlands during Nam Tien, while the Vietnamese received strong Chinese influence in their culture and civilization and were Sinicized, and the Cambodians and Laotians were Indianized, the Montagnards in the Central Highlands maintained their own native culture without adopting external culture and were the true indigenous natives of the region, and to hinder encroachment on the Central Highlands by Vietnamese nationalists, the term \"Pays Montagnard du Sud-Indochinois\" PMSI emerged for the Central Highlands along with the natives being addressed by the name Montagnard. The Vietnamese Kinh colonists flooding into the Central Highlands has significantly altered the demographics of the region. Violent demonstrations with fatalities have broken out due to Montagnard anger at Vietnamese discrimination and seizure of their land since many Vietnamese Kinh were settled by the government in the Central Highlands.\n\nAn insurgency was waged by Montagnards in FULRO against South Vietnam and then unified Communist Vietnam. A colonization program of Kinh Vietnamese by the South Vietnamese government and united Vietnamese Communist government was implemented and now a Kinh majority predominates in the highland areas. The Montagnard lands in the Central Highlands were subjected to state sponsored colonization by ethnic Vietnamese settlers under the South Vietnamese regime of Ngo Dinh Diem which resulted in estranging the Montagnards and leading them to reject Vietnamese rule. FULRO however did not represent the sole force or organisation among the Montagnards, Khmer Krom and other groups, as the Cambodian Campaign that created refugees in the region had caused many to join the Viet Cong and become members. The appeal of \"defending the fatherland\" against foreign attack appealed to many. \nThe South Vietnamese and Communist Vietnamese colonization of the Central Highlands has been compared to the historic Nam tiến of previous Vietnamese rulers. During the Nam tiến (March to the South) Khmer and Cham territory was seized and militarily colonized (đồn điền) by the Vietnamese which was repeated by the state-sponsored colonization of Northern Vietnamese Catholic refugees on Montagnard land by the South Vietnamese leader Diem and the introduction to the Central Highlands of \"New Economic Zones\" by the now Communist Vietnamese government. The thousand year violent war the Vietnamese in the lowlands had with the Montagnards in the mountains was a long-established custom and the Vietnamese used the derogatory word \"Moi\" (savages) to address the Montagnards, the South Vietnamese government was strongly against the autonomous Montagnard CIDG (Civilian Irregular Defense Groups) who were fighting against the Vietcong because they feared that the Montagnards would gain independence so the South Vietnamese and Montagnards violently clashed against each other. The Vietnamese Communists are alleged to have implemented harsh punishment against the Montagnards after the defeat of South Vietnam. Whether these issues are true or not is openly disputable, given that the Vietnamese constitution officially recognises all the present central highlands minority groups. Furthermore, this group exhibited strongly-divided loyalties, many had joined with the NLF in opposition to Saigon policies.\nSome Vietnamese viewed and dealt with the indigenous Montagnards in the CIDG from the Central Highlands as \"savages\" and this caused a Montagnard uprising against the Vietnamese. Some Montagnard Rhades mounted a revolt, seizing hundreds of Vietnamese civilians and soldiers, assassinating officers of the Vietnamese special forces and seizing American advisers on 19–20 September but the 23rd Division of the South Vietnamese army stopped them from sizing Ban Me Thout, the provincial capital of Darlac Province. In the Central Highlands the Montagnard FULRO organization fought against both the Communists and South Vietnamese due to discrimination by the South Vietnamese army against the Montagnards. After the victory of the Communist North Vietnamese, the Vietnamese refused autonomy to the Montagnards, and on Montagnard land they settled around one million ethnic Vietnamese in addition to using \"reducation camps\" on the Montagnards, leading the Montagnard FULRO to continue the armed struggle against the Vietnamese.\n\nEthnic minorities in general have also been referred to as \"moi\", including other \"hill tribes\" like the Muong. The anti-ethnic minority discriminatory policies by the Vietnamese, environmental degradation, deprivation of lands from the natives, and settlement of native lands by a massive amount of Vietnamese settlers led to massive protests and demonstrations by the Central Highland's indigenous native ethnic minorities against the Vietnamese in January–February 2001 and this event gave a tremendous blow to the claim often published by the Vietnamese government that in Vietnam \"There has been no ethnic confrontation, no religious war, no ethnic conflict. And no elimination of one culture by another.\" The same state-sponsored settlement of ethnic minority land by Vietnamese Kinh has happened in another highland region, the Annamite Cordillera (Trường Sơn), both the Central Highlands and Annamite Cordillera were populated by ethnic minorities who were not Vietnamese during the 20th century's start, but the demographics of the highlands was drastically transformed with the mass colonization of 6 million settlers from 1976 to the 1990s, which led to ethnic Vietnamese Kinh outnumbering the native ethnic groups in the highlands.\n\nA colonization program of Kinh Vietnamese by the South Vietnamese government and united Vietnamese Communist government was implemented. Leaving out any plans for autonomy for ethnic minorities, an assimilation plan was launched by the South Vietnamese government with the creation of the \"Social and Economic Council for the Southern Highlander Country\", the South Vietnamese based their approach to the highlanders by claiming that they would be \"developed\" since they were \"poor\" and \"ignorant\", making swidden agriculturalists sedentarize and settling ethnic Vietnamese colonists from the coastal regions into the highlands such as Northern Vietnamese Catholic refugees who fled to South Vietnam, 50,000 Vietnamese settlers were in the highlands in 1960 and in 1963 the total number of settlers was 200,000 and up to 1974 the South Vietnamese were still implemented the colonization plan even though the highland natives experienced massive turbulence and disorder because of the colonization, and by 1971 less than half of a scheme back by the Americans to leave Montagnards with just 20% of the Central Highlands was completed, and even in the parts of the highlands which did not experience colonization, the South Vietnamese threw the native tribes into \"strategic hamelets\" to keep them away from places where communists potentially operated and the South Vietnamese consistently spurned any attempts too make overtures to the native Highlanders.\n\nConcessions for ethnic minority rights were issued after the South Vietnamese government was forced by the FULRO insurgency to address the problem under \"Front for the Liberation of the Highlands of Champa\" (Mặt Trận Giải Phóng Cao Nguyên Champa) and FULRO led by Les Kosem and with the help of the intelligence agency and military of Cambodia under Prince Norodom Sinhaouk. The effort to free the Cham people was led by Major General Les Kosem. The Cham people keep the soul of FULRO alive according to former FULRO Cham member Po Dharma who went on a journey to see Les Kosem's grave.\n\nA 2002 article in the Washington Times reported that Montagnard women were subjected to forced mass sterilization by the Vietnamese government for the Montagnard's population to be reduced, in addition to stealing lands of the Montagnards, and attacking their religious beliefs, killing and torturing them in a form of \"creeping genocide\",\n\nLuke Simpkins, an MP in the House of Representatives of Australia condemned the Vietnamese persecution of the Central Highland Montagnards and noting both the South Vietnamese government and regime of unified Communist Vietnam attacked the Montagnards and colonized their lands, mentioning FULRO which fought against the Vietnamese and the desire for the Montagnards to preserve their culture and language. The Vietnamese government has non-Montagnards settle on Montagnard land and killed Montagnards after jailing them.\n\nFormer Green Beret and writer Don Bendell wrote a novel based on Vietnam's policies in the Central Highlands with details in his book such as accusing the Communist Vietnamese government implemented a genocidal and discriminatory policy against the native Montagnards in the Central Highlands, banning Montagnard languages and implementing Vietnamese language, having Vietnamese men marry Montagnard girls and women by force, colonizing the Central Highlands with massive amounts of Vietnamese settlers from the lowlands, inflicting terror and on the Montagnards with the Cong An, and making them perform slave labor, erecting plantations for rubber, tea, and coffee on the Central Highlands after destroying the vegetation in the area and due to these \"apartheid-like conditions\". The veracity of these accounts are uncertain, as they have not been independently sourced or verified.\n\nAfter the Vietnamese government arrested Montagnards a demonstration was started in Chu Prong county by the Montagnards in the Central Highlands consisting of around 500 people in February 2001. Vietnam accused them of plotting for autonomy and accused them of trying to stir up ethnic animosity, and launched an anti-Highlander military operation. The traditional lands of the Central Highland had been taken by the Vietnamese and the Central Highland demonstrators had asked for it back. The Vietnamese government refused to return the lands and instead attacked the demonstrators, arresting hundreds and assaulting and pummeling the demonstrators. The Vietnamese military took charge of the Central Highlands, severing telephone lines and keeping heavy watch over travel within the area. The Bahnar, Rhade, and Raglai participated in the mass demonstrations against the Vietnamese. They carried no weapons while they started their mass protests. The natives regard the puppet leaders placed in their communities by the Vietnamese Communist government as collaborators who help persecute the natives for the Vietnamese. The tribal customs of the highlanders are ignored by the Vietnamese government which shows no regard for the traditional leaders of the Highlanders. The natives of the Central Highlands are mired in poverty and the Vietnamese are richer than them and are subjected to starvation. The Vietnamese government seized the land of the natives in the Central Highlands for Vietnamese settlers and coffee companies. They severely limited the amount of land farmed by the Highlanders and drove them away. Vietnamese colonizers also directly seize land from the natives in addition to the coffee companies. The policies of the Vietnamese government impede the natives while helping the Vietnamese colonizers. The lumber and coffee companies are assisted by the Vietnamese government. Vietnamese government workers embezzle and steal aid meant for the Central Highlanders. After these provocations, when Buon xer village was seized by Vietnamese colonizers, they were attacked by the Rhade when the straw finally broke the camel's back on August 8, 2000. The massive amount of Vietnamese colonizers and land theft was the impetus for the mass 2001 demonstrations against the Vietnamese. Rahlan Djan and Rahlan Pon were the two Montagnards who were abused and arrested by the Vietnamese and ex-FULRO member Ksor Kok helped bring attention to their plight.\n\nThe jailed Montagnards had been subjected to torture by the Vietnamese government which caused the mass protests. There were 30 police officers wounded in Buon Ma Thuot in Daklak and Pleiku. Coffee farming and colonization of ethnic Vietnamese in the Central highlands are supported by the Vietnamese government. The natives were attacked by Vietnamese helicopters and soldiers in Daklak and Gia Lia provinces.\n\nThe Ratanakiri and Moldokiri based Montagnards numbered 402 people in December 1992. Another wave of Montagnard refugees in Cambodia happened after the Vietnamese government crackdown on the protests in the Central Highlands in February 2001.\n\nTorture was performed by the Vietnamese upon Montagnards who were detained after the protests. The demonstrators were crushed by Vietnamese troops and police after they asked for the land back in non-violent protests in the Central Highlands in 2001. In their own native lands, the Vietnamese have been removing Montagnards since they don't have official documentation and the Highlands have been flooded with Vietnamese colonists supported by the Vietnamese government. Plantations run by the government were built on the land of the Montagnards which were also settled by lowlanders. Montagnards were made to give up their lands for far less than they were worth to the Vietnamese government\n\nPrison sentences were handed down to 15 people in May 2004. Gia Lai and Dak Lak's capital Buon Ma Thuot was the scene of the April 2004 mass demonstrations against the Vietnamese. Access to the Central Highlands was cut off by the police. The Vietnamese government oppresses them because they want their native land rights. The 2001 mass protests led to an exodus to Cambodia of Montagnards escaping from the Vietnamese authorities. After attempting to escape Vietnam or demonstrating against the government, jail terms were imposed upon over 70 Montagnards.\n\nElectric batons and tear gas were deployed by the Vietnamese against a communal prayer by the Montagnards. Like the 2001 mass demonstrations, Buon Ma Thuot was once again the scene of a huge gathering of Montagnards demanding that their traditional Daklak lands be given back and religious freedom allowed. Plantations were set up on stolen land where the Montagnards were driven out of by the Vietnamese government since the Vietnamese use it for growing coffee.\n\nGia Lia and Daklak were the scene of the mass 2004 demonstrations. The Montagnard demonstrators demanded that they be given their lands and be justly treated. The demonstrations involved thousands and police and demonstrators were among the injured.\n\nThe flood of Kinh Vietnamese colonists on stolen Montagnard lands led to 20,000 Montagnards participating in the 2001 protests. Buon Ma Thuoat was flooded by Vietnamese armed forces after crushing the rally in which Montagnards took part in by the hundreds. Foreigners were banned by the Vietnamese police from entering Buon Ma Thuot. Religious and ethnic groups are oppressed by the Vietnamese government according to the Montagnard Foundation.\n\nAmerica received 1,000 asylees from Montagnards in Cambodia where they had fled to after the mass demonstrations in 2001. The theft of indigenous land was the cause of the protests in Daklak province's capital Buon Ma Thuot on Saturday by over 1,000 Montagnards in 2004. The Vietnamese arrested Montagnards during the demonstrations and people were hurt during fights which broke out. The Montagnard Foundation was accused by the Vietnamese government.\n\nObservers were shocked by the Gia Lai and Daklak 2004 demonstrations since the heavy Vietnamese military presence in the area was implemented after suppressing and clamping down on the 2001 demonstrations. Destitution is rife in the Central Highlands. There were estimates of thousands of people participating in the demonstrations. The coffee growing highlands were closed to every single non-Vietnamese after the protests. The airports in Pleiku and Buon Ma Thuot were forbidden from allowing non-Vietnamese in. Special permission is needed for non-Vietnamese reporters and consular officers.\n\nThe Vietnamese government stole the land of the Montagnards when the Communists came to power. During the protests Montagnards were shot according to Save the Montagnards leader George Clark. 2,000 Montagnards were alleged to have been killed with rivers being used as dumping grounds for bodies by the Vietnamese according to the Montagnard Foundation.\n\nThe peaceful protests were crushed by the Vietnamese government and the toll inflicted was substantial.\n\nJail terms were handed out to hundreds of Montagnards while others were murdered by the Vietnamese government forces during the crushing of the Daklak disturbances in 2001. In order to search for Montagnards the Vietnamese government closed streets, shut down flights and banned non-Vietnamese from the area. Cambodia was the destination of many Montagnards who fled the crackdown in which the amount of people detained and hurt reached into the hundreds after the Vietnamese Communists crushed the protesters, who sought to address the theft of their land by the Vietnamese government.\n\nItaly called for Montagnard asylum seekers to be allowed into Cambodia and called the Montagnard persecution at the hands of the Vietnamese to end.\n\nThe 2001 incident was over land. In 2004 there were multiple disappeared and murdered demonstrators as demonstration was subjected to water cannon, gas and electric sticks. Reporters and non-Vietnamese were banned from the Central Highlands by the Vietnamese. Indigenous land seizure was one of the complaints of the rally in Daklak outside of the Vietnamese government buildings by the Montagnards.\n\nThe Easter weekend was when the protests over the theft of indigenous land happened and water cannons, gas and electric sticks were deployed against them. During the incident murdered and injured Montagnards were seen. Foreign officials and observers were forbidden to enter. Vietnam has long crushed indigenous land rights for ethnic minorities. Italy and the USA attempted to investigate the crackdown.\n\nThe number of wounded and imprisoned reached into the dozens according to some. The Vietnamese murdered Montagnards by the hundreds according to Montagnard advocates in the USA. An observation trip by US diplomatic officers was barred by the Vietnamese. Italy and the USA both called upon the truth behind what happened to be investigated. The death toll of hundreds came from Kok Ksor who leads the Montagnard Foundation. Released Vietnamese prison inmates and Vietnamese civilians helped the Vietnamese police assaulted the Montagnards. Trucks, rivers, wells, and coffee plantations human remains lying around. The Vietnamese detained Montagnard children and the Central Highlands was off limits to independent observers. The path to Cambodia was obstructed by the Vietnamese.\n\nOne number given of protest participants was 400,000 while an approximate number of deaths was given at 400. Vietnamese civilians joined Vietnamese security forces in assaulting the Buonmathuot Degar Montagnard protesters.\n\nDak Lak's capital Buon Ma Thuot was the scene of the convergence of Montagnards in the thousands on April 20, Saturday of 2004. Tanks were deployed water cannons, electric sticks and gas were deployed by the police. Gia Lai's districts of Dak Doa, Cu Se, and Ayun Pa on April 11 were the scenes of further protests by Montagnards against the Vietnamese. Human Rights Watch also reported deaths and injuries among the Montagnards in the 2004 uprising. Indigenous land restitution was a demand of the non-violent Montagnard protesters. External contact was limited and three or more people gathering was prohibited, along with Central Highlands internal movement. House arrest was implemented with Vietnamese police entered the houses and villages of the Montagnards. Multiple incidents of Vietnamese jailing and assaulting Montagnards were documented in 2003 and 2004.\n\nIndigenous land seizure was a reason cited for the Saturday demonstrations by the Montagnards in which dozens were arrested by the Vietnamese. Non Vietnamese were banned from the Central Highlands while the demonstrations were crushed by Vietnamese police. A death toll of hundreds was given by the Montagnard Foundation.\n\nAsylum for the Montagnards was advocated to the United Nations and the government of Cambodia by Cambodian King Sihanouk.\n\nIndigenous land theft at the hands of the Vietnamese led to the demonstrations in which the Vietnamese savagely crushed 1,000 Montagnard Degars and resulted in a death toll of possibly hundreds according to a Christian News Service. There has been acute discrimination of the Montagnards by the Vietnamese.\n\nThe coffee plantations and Buonmathuot had corpses strewn around numbering in the hundreds while some were beheaded, their limbs broken after guns, stones, and electric sticks were used in the assault on the Montagnard protesters by private Vietnamese citizens who helped the Vietnamese police and military. The Vietnamese persecute both Northwestern and Central Highland ethnic minorities. The Montangards were driven to Cambodia after they were left in destitution when their indigenous lands were seized by the Vietnamese in an \"ethnic cleansing\" plan implemented by the Communist Vietnamese. The Radical Party of Italy brought attention to the plight of the Montagnards to the European Parliament. United Nations monitors were banned from the Central Highlands.\n\nVietnamese government media claimed that the death toll was two people. Theft of land was a cause of the demonstration by the Montagnards. The Central Highlands was blocked to non-Vietnamese. The demonstrations were mostly ignored by Vietnamese media. There were deaths caused by shootings and violent batterings of Montagnards at the hands of the Vietnamese according to Human Rights Watch.\n\nThe Vietnamese Embassy in the United States and the Foreign Ministry of Vietnam claimed no discrimination was going on and everything was normal.\n\nThe Montagnard demonstrators were accused of being separatists who wanted their own country by the Vietnamese government.\n\nThe Italian Radical Party and Mountagnard Fondation's remarks were attacked as false by the Vietnamese Foreign Ministry. Vietnam claimed that the protests were started by the Montagnard Foundation.\n\nThe Vietnamese crackdown on the Montagnards 2004 Easter demonstrations led to denunciation from the European Union. The Central Highlands were requested to be open up to non-Vietnamese by the EU since the area was off limits to foreign reporters. Indigenous land theft and discrimination against their beliefs by the Vietnamese was the reason for the rally in Dak Lak's capital Buon Ma Thuot by the Montagnards. Vietnamese police thrashed some people until they died.\n\nMontagnard participants were estimated at 30,000 or 10,000. Foreign monitors were banned by the Vietnamese. Access to the Central Highlands was demanded by Human Rights Watch. Private Vietnamese citizens helped the Vietnamese police assault, thrash, and murder Montagnards in the middle of coffee plantations and in the streets, including a blind Montagnard woman. The Human Rights Watch report was cited in the United States House of Representatives.\n\nKhmer Kampuchea Krom Federation (KKF) supported the statement made by King Sihanouk on the situation. Sanctuary for Montagnards running away from the crackdown was requested of the Cambodian government by KKF.\n\nThe first Montagnard protests were started when 3 of them were detained by the Vietnamese in February 2001. Natives only make out 1 million out of the 4 million residents of the Central Highlands since Vietnamese colonists have flooded into the region with Vietnamese government support. Sterilization and involuntary termination of pregnancies were implemented against Montagnards. Having 3 or a greater number of children would result in penalties for Montagnards. The Vietnamese punish any escapees they can retrieve\n\nA whitewashing campaign of the sanguine events by the Vietnamese government was accused by Human Rights Watch. Killings perpetrated by the Vietnamese were witnessed and divulged to Human Rights Watch. The Vietnamese launched ambuscade and surprise traps against protesters.\n\nWhen the protests were crushed villages were missing a massive amount of their inhabitants. Prohibitions slapped on the entry of non-Vietnamese and censorship failed to stop reports of accounts of murder and torment inflicted upon Montagnards at the hands of Vietnamese citizens and police. The Vietnamese government implemented a campaign to censor and whitewash the events.\n\nDemonstrators were hunted down with dogs in coffee plantations by the Vietnamese, according to a Baptist news service. Tourists and airlines were barred as were foreign embassy officers. Montagnards were sterilized involuntarily by the Vietnamese. Indigenous land theft by the Vietnamese was the cause of the protests.\n\nThe savage events led to Cambodia becoming a destination for fleeing Montagnards.\n\n20 Vietnamese troops sexually violated a Degar woman who was 20 years old called HHlon. The skull of a Degar was crushed by Vietnamese students after he was detained by police. He was 33 years old and his name was Siu Plen. A fatal head shot was administered by Vietnamese on a Degar named Hnun. A fatal thrashing was administered after the eyes were gouged out by Vietnamese citizen colonists on a Degar man named Tol. The crimes committed by the Vietnamese were reported despite the Vietnam government shutting access to the area. The Banmathout death toll was estimated at 400 as Degar were murdered by Vietnamese colonists and police.\n\nMontagnard land being stolen was the cause of the protests. 10 Montagnards were murdered by Vietnamese citizens and police according to Human Rights Watch. Transparency was requested of the Vietnamese government by the European Union.\n\nOn April 24, it was reported that the Central Highlands were reopened to non-Vietnamese.\n\nDue to the bloody crackdown in the Central Highlands, in Washington D.C. the Vietnam embassy was the scene of protests. Hmong and Laos opposition supported the Montagnards due to Vietnam's alliance with the government of Laos.\n\nOnce the protests were crushed by the Vietnamese, a Vietnamese government controlled and monitored tour of the Central Highlands of non-Vietnamese reporters was given after caving into the strong reaction by other countries to the events.\n\nIn the European Parliament a condemnation of the Vietnamese persecution of Montagnards was proposed by the Italian Radical Party.\n\nThe Montagnard Foundation was accused by Vietnam.\n\nRubber weapons only were used according to Vietnamese claims in response to accusations of using guns and killing demonstrators by thrashing them. The people wanted their land back.\n\nThe Montagnard Foundation was blamed by Vietnam.\n\nDeportations were made by Cambodia of Montagnards who had escaped the Vietnamese.\n\nVietnam claimed it allowed freedom of belief and tolerance for minorities in response to the unrest.\n\nThe inhabitants of the Central Highlands were made to provide quarter and lodging to Vietnamese soldiers. During the demonstrations, additional soldiers were brought n by the Vietnamese. Vietnam claimed as lies the reports by Montagnard Foundation and Human Rights Watch, denied discrimination and claimed that the Central Highlands people were being taken care of by Vietnam. Police killed Montagnards by thrashing them.\n\nLand theft led to the demonstrations which resulted in the deaths of Montagnards at the hands of Vietnamese. Foreign ambassadors and monitors were banned from the area by the Vietnamese. Entry to the Central Highlands was demanded by the Italian and American embassies. Vietnam refused to acknowledge any problem and refused to allow the Montagnards situation to be observed by outsiders while the land rights of the Montagnards are being denied.\n\nThere was documentation of the killings of 10 Montagnards according to Human Rights watch while 8 were documented by Amnesty International. A whitewashing was alleged by HRW while the situation of ethnic minorities was criticized by Amnesty.\n\nVietnamese civilians helped the Vietnamese police assault and massacre Montagnard demonstrators. Traps were set up by the Vietnamese at locations where hey started violently assaulting the protesters. The protests had 30,000 people.\n\nBecause of his desire to promote trade with Vietnam, John Kerry rejected showing any concern for Montagnard rights and voted against the 2001 Vietnam Human Rights Act in the Senate. Kerry said that \"communism\" was what the people wanted in Vietnam. The current 750,000 Montagnard have been halved from their original 1975 number of 1,500,000 while there was a three times growth in the Vietnamese population while killings, torture, and seizure of land from the Montagnards has taken place. Mass graves were created to be filled with the corpses of the Montagnards as kids, women and men were assaulted by Vietnamese security forces. Laotian Communists are effectively a satellite of the Vietnamese with Laos containing Vietnamese soldier garrisons and the Laotians are seen as primitive by the Vietnamese. The Cambodian government is seen as a satellite government under Vietnam's control with a garrison of Vietnamese soldiers stationed there as Vietnamese use their historic military settlement method of Don Dien on Cambodia and Laos. The vision of dominance of Cambodia and Laos by Vietnam was formulated by Ho Chi Minh.\n\nNeutral journalism was forbidden when reporters were finally permitted in after the European Union and Human Rights organizations strong armed access after there was a total lack of reporting on the demonstrations for 3 weeks. 19 were murdered according to organizations while 2 died according to Vietnam.\n\nThe Vietnamese crackdown against the Montagnards in 2001 and 2004 over their land rights resulted in Cambodia experiencing an Exodus of Montagnard asylum seekers.\n\nThreats were made against potential future demonstrators by the Vietnamese government after they crushed the Central Highlands demonstrations with the Montagnard being named as a source of enmity by Nguyen Tan Dung, the Deputy Prime Minister.\n\nForeigners were accused of inciting the demonstrations by Vietnam and the ability of the demonstrations to take placed was blamed on leniency on part of the state by Nguyen Tan Dung, the Deputy Prime Minister.\n\nHouse Resolution 613 was initiated by Republican representative Tom Davis over persecution in Vietnam.\n\nMontagnards are oppressed and abused by the Vietnamese regime with their land being seized and stolen by the Vietnamese, the Cambodian-Vietnamese border blocked by the Vietnamese to stop them from leaving as refugees and the Vietnamese tortured Montagnards with electricity and beatings. As a means of intimidation, the Vietnamese gather hundreds of spectators to watch trials of arrested Montaganrds and force public repudiation of religious belief upon the Montagnards. the Vietnamese accuse Montagnards of being \"reactionary\".\n\nDegar religious rights and autonomy are not allowed by the Vietnamese Communists. A Montagnard family was attacked with machetes by ordinary Vietnamese citizens. Assaults and brutality by Vietnamese citizens is sanctioned and supported by the Vietnamese government. Their traditional lands were seized from them.\n\nVietnamese government supported racism, anti-religious policies, land theft, abuse, and imprisonment against ethnic minorities like the Hmong, Montagnards, and Khmer Krom were condemned by the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination in Geneva during its 80th Session.\n\nIn Gialai province, Cu Se district, Hbong village, Siu Klong, a Degar Montagnard, was hung to death by ordinary Vietnamese citizens on 5 December 2012 and the Vietnamese police and government ignored the crime and did nothing against the perpetrators.\n\nReligious freedom is officially allowed in article 70 of the constitution of Vietnam, but the Vietnamese government ignores this and kill, jails, and abuses Degars because of their religion after 1975 when the Central Highlands was occupied by North Vietnamese. The Vietnamese police crucified a fifty-year-old Degar man named A Tac while assaulting and beating other Degars whose limbs were restrained in the commune of Dak Krong.\n\nVietnamese police assaulted and beat Montagnard Degar children and babies in addition to adults, women, and old people in the province of Kontum, Kon Braih district, Dak T'Re commune in Bon Kon H'Drom village on 21 August 2012.\n\nThe de-listing of Vietnam by the US State Department was criticized by the Montagnards due to Vietnam's continued arrests and abuse of Montagnards due to religion.\n\nThe Degars experienced hardship, tribulation and adversity during the Indochina Wars and have continued to suffer from Vietnamese oppression while the beneficiaries have been the Vietnamese. The Vietnamese has sterilized Degar women, and murdered and jailed Degar men to wipe out the Degars for the purpose of seizing their land and the Vietnamese despise the Degar way of life due to ethnic hatred by the Vietnamese against the Degar which led to ethnic cleansing.\n\nThe Montagnard Degar man Siu Thoan's family was terrorized and bullied by Vietnamese police including his wife. The Vietnamese Pham Anh Tuan violently assaulted Siu Thoan's family.\n\nAfter rejecting a demand by the Vietnamese for his religion to be repudiated, a sentence of five years in jail was handed down to Y-Huong Nie, a Degar Montagnard.\n\nThe Vietnamese police assaulted and brutalized the Montagnard Foundation President Kok Ksor's mother, Ksor H'Ble, especially following the Degar February 2001 demonstrations over land and religion and the April 2004 demonstrations. The Vietnamese police bullied and assaulted her for years. She died on 18 August 2011. Due to lands and religious disputes, the Vietnamese have killed Degars in the thousands.\n\nDue to religious issues In the commune of Croh POnan 3 Montagnards were tortured by the Vietnamese.\n\nDue to their religious faith Degars had dogs unleashed to assault them by the Vietnamese police.\n\nDegars were violently assaulted and brutalized by racist ordinary Vietnamese citizens on 27 September 2007. Degars were targeted for murder by Vietnamese citizens on 5 October 2007. In the Central Highlands there is severe ethnic bigotry towards the native Degars by the Vietnamese. Degars are subject to bigotry and hatred both by ordinary Vietnamese and the government of Vietnam.\n\nEthnic minority lands are subjected to settlement and colonization by ethnic Vietnamese Kinh supported by the Vietnamese government, as the native populations are driven out and their lands stolen in addition to their bad economic situation. Violence and jail sentences are used against ethnic minorities like Khmer Krom and the most racism is perpetrated against the Hmong and Montagnards.\n\nDemanding that the Vietnamese regime stop repressing ethnic minorities and religion, the \"Coalition for Indigenous Peoples in Vietnam\" was formed out of the Thai, Khmer Krom, and Montagnards after they combined forces against the Vietnamese.\n\nThe Vietnamese brutally suppressed, imprisoned and tortured Montagnards after the Montagnards asked for their lands back during protests in Gia Lai province in 2012 so 85 of the Montagnards were forced to escape from the Vietnamese by going to Rattanakiri province in Cambodia. The religion and ethnicity of the Montagnards is distinct from the Vietnamese. Prospect of a new insurgency by Montagnards for independence were shot down by the Hun Sen regime in Cambodia which refused to aid them.\n\nDuring the trouble and chaos in the Central Highlands after the Vietnamese abused and jailed Montagnard leader Y'Soai Eban he managed to run away from Vietnamese custody. The Montagnards were subjected to genocide after the Vietnam War in 1975.\n\nIndependence from the Communist authorities was desired by the Montagnards after the Vietnam War since they were killed, abused, discriminated against and jailed by the Vietnamese authorities so many of them were forced to run away from the Central Highlands as refugees. Cambodia and eventually the United States were their destinations.\n\nDeath, torture, and incarceration were the punishments inflicted on Montagnards gathering in groups of three or more by the Vietnamese with their religion severely persecuted and repressed at the hands of the Vietnamese Communist regime since 1975.\n\nThe United States State Department showed little concern at the plight of the Montagnards at the hands of the Vietnamese. A thirteen-year-old Montagnard girl Y Kang was severely assaulted, beaten and kicked along with 16 Montagnard women and men by Vietnamese police in Gai Lai province, Plei Ku city, district Mang Yang, commune H'ra in Buon Kret Krot village on July 7, 2011.\n\nVietnam has jailed hundreds of Montagnards in addition to murdering, abusing, and discriminating against their religious beliefs.\n\nDeath was a possible consequence of getting caught with a Bible. The Vietnamese regime claims that Montagnard separatism is conducted by religious matters and uses this as a reason to attack their religion. Montagnard land was seized by the Vietnamese government after the Vietnam War.\n\nIn Gia Lai province, Chu Prong district in 2010 Montagnards were assaulted and detained by the Vietnamese. Parts of Vietnam like the Central Highlands are off limit to human rights organizations and reporters.\n\n"}
{"id": "58924946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58924946", "title": "Philippe Charlier", "text": "Philippe Charlier\n\nPhilippe Charlier is a French coroner, forensic pathologist and paleopathologist.\n\nCharlier was born in Meaux on 25 June 1977. His father is a doctor, his mother a pharmacist. He made his first dig at the age of 10, when he found a human skull. He studied archaeology and art history at the Michelet Institute and was part of the forensic department at Raymond Poincaré University Hospital. His work has focused on the study of the remains of Richard Lionheart, Agnès Sorel, Fulk III, Count of Anjou, Diane de Poitiers, relics of Louis IX scattered in France, false relics of Joan of Arc, and the presumed head of Henry IV. In 2017, he reconfirmed Hitler's dental remains from a jawbone fragment in the Soviet archives.\n"}
{"id": "34571360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34571360", "title": "Physician Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment", "text": "Physician Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment\n\nPOLST (Provider Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment) is an approach to improving end-of-life care in the United States, encouraging providers to speak with patients and create specific medical orders to be honored by health care workers during a medical crisis. POLST began in Oregon in 1991 and currently exists at some level in 42 states and meets the national POLST standard in 18 states. The POLST document is a standardized, portable, brightly colored single page medical order that documents a conversation between a provider and a patient with a serious illness or frailty towards the end of life. A POLST form allows emergency medical services to provide treatment a patient wants before possibly transporting a patient to an emergency facility.\n\nIt is a medical order; the POLST form is always signed by a medical professional and, depending upon the state, the patient. A pragmatic rule for initiating a POLST can be if the clinician would not be surprised if the patient were to die within one year. One difference between a POLST form and an advance directive is that the POLST form is designed to be actionable throughout an entire community. It is immediately recognizable and can be used by doctors and first responders (including paramedics, fire departments, police, emergency rooms, hospitals and nursing homes).\n\nOrganizations that have passed formal resolutions in support of POLST include the American Bar Association and the Society for Post-Acute and Long-Term Care Medicine (AMDA). Other organizations that support POLST include the American Nurses Association (ANA); the Institute of Medicine; National Association of Social Workers (NASW); AARP; the American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine (AAHPM); Pew Charitable Trusts; and the Catholic Health Association of the United States (CHA).\n\nPOLST orders are also known by other names in some states: Medical Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment (MOLST), Medical Orders on Scope of Treatment (MOST), Physician's Orders on Scope of Treatment (POST) or Transportable Physician Orders for Patient Preferences (TPOPP).\n\nPOLST represents a significant paradigm change in advance care policy by standardizing provider communications through a plan of care in a portable way, rather than focusing solely on standardizing patients' communications via advance directives.\n\nThe POLST paradigm requires providers and patients or their surrogates to \naccomplish three core tasks:\n\n\n\nTo determine whether a POLST form should be completed, clinicians should ask themselves, \"Would I be surprised if this person died in the next year?\" If the answer is that the patient's prognosis is one year or less, then a POLST form is appropriate.\n\nIn a 2006 consensus report, the National Quality Form observed that \"compared with other advance directive programs, POLST more accurately conveys end-of-life preferences and yields higher adherence by medical professionals.\" The National Quality Forum and other experts have recommended nationwide implementation of the POLST paradigm Implementation of POLST was also recently recommended by the National Academy of Sciences Institute of Medicine in its report, \"Dying in America: Improving Quality and Honoring Individual Preferences Near the End of Life.\" The report was released September 17, 2014.\n\nUnlike advance directives, a POLST summarizes the patients' wishes in the form of medical orders. An advance directive is a legal document that allows you to share your wishes with your health care team if you can’t speak for yourself. It does so by designating a person you want your medical team to work with (also known as a “surrogate”). You cannot identify a surrogate using a POLST Form. To designate a health care surrogate, patients must use an advance directive.\n\nAn advance directive allows you to generally state what treatments you would or would not want in a medical crisis, but it is not a medical order. POLST provides explicit guidance to health professionals under predictable future circumstances based on your current medical condition. A POLST form turns treatment wishes outlined in an advance directive into medical orders. An individual does not need to have an advance directive to have a POLST form although health care professionals recommend that all competent adults have advance directives in place. If the individual lacks decisional capacity, a surrogate can engage in the conversation and the consent process that forms the basis of the POLST process.\n\nThe challenges that patients, their families and their healthcare professionals face in a medical emergency can be daunting. Caring and sensitive communication can elicit patients' wishes that can then be documented in an advance directive. To put these preferences into actionable orders requires an additional tool, the POLST form. Healthcare professionals and their organizations can overcome the myriad barriers to communication across systems of care by developing a POLST program, creating a method that respects some of the most deeply held values of patients.\n\nConservative groups like LifeSiteNews, the Media Research Center and the Catholic Medical Association argue that there will be unintended consequences or potential abuses fostered by POLST adoption. In some cases, this results from the way the enabling laws are written. Any document determining a patient's quality of care or life-ending choices carries moral and ethical dilemmas, and POLST instruments (or the protocols and circumstances through which they are explained to patients) have been criticized for this by the Catholic Medical Association. The Catholic Health Association answered criticisms in a white paper entitled “The POLST Paradigm and Form: Facts and Analysis.”\n\nSeveral studies have supported the use of POLST as a tool to ensure patient wishes are complied with:\n"}
{"id": "7327786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7327786", "title": "Polarity in embryogenesis", "text": "Polarity in embryogenesis\n\nIn developmental biology, an embryo is divided into two hemispheres: the animal pole and the vegetal pole within a blastula.\n\nThe animal pole consists of small cells that divide rapidly, in contrast with the vegetal pole below it. In some cases, the animal pole is thought to differentiate into the later embryo itself, forming the three primary germ layers and participating in gastrulation.\n\nThe vegetal pole contains large yolky cells that divide very slowly, in contrast with the animal pole above it. In some cases, the vegetal pole is thought to differentiate into the extraembryonic membranes that protect and nourish the developing embryo, such as the placenta in mammals and the chorion in birds.\n\nThe development of the animal-vegetal axis occurs prior to fertilization. Sperm entry can occur anywhere in the animal hemisphere. The point of sperm entry defines the dorso-ventral axis - cells opposite the region of sperm entry will eventually form the dorsal portion of the body.\n\nIn the frog \"Xenopus laevis\", a pigment pattern provides the oocyte with features of a radially symmetrical body with a distinct polarity. The animal hemisphere is dark brown, and the vegetal hemisphere is only weakly pigmented. The axis of symmetry passes through on one side the animal pole, and on the other side the vegetal pole. The two hemispheres are separated by an unpigmented equatorial belt. Polarity has a major influence on the emergence of the embryonic structures. In fact, the axis polarity serves as one coordinate of geometrical system in which early embryogenesis is organized.\n\nThe animal pole draws its name from its liveliness relative to the slowly developing vegetal pole. Hence the vegetal pole is named for its relative inactivity relative to the animal pole.\n\n"}
{"id": "28599585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28599585", "title": "Prehistoric Predators", "text": "Prehistoric Predators\n\nPrehistoric Predators was a 2007 National Geographic Channel program based on different predators that lived in the past, including \"Smilodon\" and Megalodon. The series investigated how such beasts hunted and fought other creatures, and what drove them to extinction. The program's investigative style was somewhat followed by the recent Discovery Channel documentary, Monsters Resurrected.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53782903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53782903", "title": "Pseudokinase", "text": "Pseudokinase\n\nWithin the field of molecular biology, pseudokinases are catalytically-deficient pseudoenzyme variants of protein kinases that are represented in all kinomes across the kingdoms of life. Pseudokinases have both physiological (signal transduction) and pathophysiological functions.\n\nThe phrase pseudokinase was first coined in 2002. They were subsequently sub-classified into different 'classes'. Several pseudokinase-containing families are found in the human kinome, including the Tribbles pseudokinases, which are at the interface between kinase and ubiquitin E3 ligase signalling. The human pseudokinases (and their pseudophosphatase cousins) are implicated in a wide variety of diseases, which has made them potential drug targets and antitargets). Pseudokinases are made up of an evolutionary mixture of eukaryotic protein kinase (ePK) and non ePK-related pseudoenzyme proteins (e.g, FAM20A, which binds ATP and is pseudokinase due to a conserved Glutamate to Glutamine swap in the alpha-C helix. FAM20A is implicated in periodontal disease, and serves to control the catalytic activity of FAM20C, an important physiological casein kinase that controls phosphorylation of proteins in the Golgi apparatus that are destined for secretion, such as the milk protein casein.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "682640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=682640", "title": "Pygidium", "text": "Pygidium\n\nThe pygidium (plural pygidia) is the posterior body part or shield of crustaceans and some other arthropods, such as insects and the extinct trilobites. It contains the anus and, in females, the ovipositor. It is composed of fused body segments, sometimes with a tail, and separated from thoracic segments by an articulation.\n\nIn arachnids, the pygidium is formed by reduction of the last three opisthosomal segments to rings where there is no distinction between tergites and sternites. A pygidium is present in Palpigradi, Amblypygi, Thelyphonida, Schizomida, Ricinulei and in the extinct order Trigonotarbida. It is also present in early fossil representatives of horseshoe crabs.\n\nIn trilobites, the pygidium can range from extremely small (much smaller than the head, or cephalon) to larger than the cephalon. They can be smooth, as in order Asaphida, or spiny, as in order Lichida. They can be classified into four categories according to their relative size in comparison to the cephalon.\n\n\nThey can further be subdivided in their morphological similarity to the thorax. Pygidia that are similar in shape and form to the thoracic segments are termed homonomous, while pygidia that vary significantly from the shape and form of the thoracic segments (like by the presence or absence of spines) are heteronomous.\n\n\"Pygidium\" is also a superseded genus of fish of the family Trichomycteridae. Most species of this genus have been reassigned to the genus \"Trichomycterus\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "161995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161995", "title": "Quorum sensing", "text": "Quorum sensing\n\nIn biology, quorum sensing is the ability to detect and to respond to cell population density by gene regulation. As one example, quorum sensing (QS) enables bacteria to restrict the expression of specific genes to the high cell densities at which the resulting phenotypes will be most beneficial. Many species of bacteria use quorum sensing to coordinate gene expression according to the density of their local population. In similar fashion, some social insects use quorum sensing to determine where to nest.\n\nIn addition to its function in biological systems, quorum sensing has several useful applications for computing and robotics. In general, quorum sensing can function as a decision-making process in any decentralized system in which the components have: (a) a means of assessing the number of other components they interact with and (b) a standard response once a threshold number of components is detected.\nSome of the best-known examples of quorum sensing come from studies of bacteria. Bacteria use quorum sensing to regulate certain phenotype expressions, which in turn, coordinate their behaviours. Some common phenotypes include biofilm formation, virulence factor expression, and motility. Certain bacteria are able to use quorum sensing to regulate bioluminescence, nitrogen fixation and sporulation.\n\nQuorum sensing functions based on the local density of the bacterial population in the immediate environment. It can occur within a single bacterial species, as well as between diverse species. Both Gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria use quorum sensing, but there are some major differences in their mechanisms.\n\nFor the bacteria to use quorum sensing constitutively, they must possess three characteristics: to secrete a signaling molecule, an autoinducer, to detect the change in concentration of signaling molecules, and to regulate gene transcription as a response. This process is highly dependent on the diffusion mechanism of the signaling molecules. QS Signaling molecules are usually secreted at a low level by individual bacteria. At low cell density, the molecules may just diffuse away. At high cell density, the local concentration of signaling molecules may exceed its threshold level, and trigger changes in gene expressions.\n\nGram-positive bacteria use autoinducing peptide (AIP) as their autoinducers.\n\nWhen gram-positive bacteria detect high concentration of AIP in the environment, AIP bind to a receptor to activate kinase. The kinase phosphorylates a transcription factor, which regulated gene transcription. This is called a two-component system.\n\nAnother possible mechanism is that AIP is transported into the cytosol, and binds directly to a transcription factor to initiate or inhibit transcription.\n\nGram-negative bacteria produce N-acyl homoserine lactones (AHL) as their signaling molecule. Usually AHLs do not need additional processing, and bind directly to transcription factors to regulate gene expression.\n\nSome gram-negative bacteria may use the two-component system as well.\n\nQuorum sensing was first observed in \"Aliivibrio fischeri\", a bioluminescent bacterium that lives as a mutualistic symbiont in the photophore (or light-producing organ) of the Hawaiian bobtail squid. When \"A. fischeri\" cells are free-living (or planktonic), the autoinducer is at low concentration, and, thus, cells do not show luminescence. However, when the population reaches the threshold in the photophore (about cells/ml), transcription of luciferase is induced, leading to bioluminescence.\n\nIn the Gram-negative bacterium \"Escherichia coli\" (\"E. coli\"), cell division may be partially regulated by AI-2-mediated quorum sensing. This species uses AI-2, which is produced and processed by the \"lsr\" operon. Part of it encodes an ABC transporter, which imports AI-2 into the cells during the early stationary (latent) phase of growth. AI-2 is then phosphorylated by the LsrK kinase, and the newly produced phospho-AI-2 can be either internalized or used to suppress LsrR, a repressor of the \"lsr\" operon (thereby activating the operon). Transcription of the \"lsr\" operon is also thought to be inhibited by dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) through its competitive binding to LsrR. Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate has also been shown to inhibit the \"lsr\" operon through cAMP-CAPK-mediated inhibition. This explains why, when grown with glucose, \"E. coli\" will lose the ability to internalize AI-2 (because of catabolite repression). When grown normally, AI-2 presence is transient.\n\n\"E. coli\" and \"Salmonella enterica\" do not produce AHL signals commonly found in other Gram-negative bacteria. However, they have a receptor that detects AHLs from other bacteria and change their gene expression in accordance with the presence of other \"quorate\" populations of Gram-negative bacteria.\n\"Salmonella\" encodes a LuxR homolog, SdiA, but does not encode an AHL synthase. SdiA detects AHLs produced by other species of bacteria including \"Aeromonas hydrophila\", \"Hafnia alvei\", and \"Yersinia enterocolitica\". When AHL is detected, SdiA regulates the \"rck\" operon on the \"Salmonella\" virulence plasmid (\"pefI-srgD-srgA-srgB-rck-srgC\") and a single gene horizontal acquisition in the chromosome \"srgE\". \"Salmonella\" does not detect AHL when passing through the gastrointestinal tracts of several animal species, suggesting that the normal microbiota does not produce AHLs. However, SdiA does become activated when \"Salmonella\" transits through turtles colonized with \"Aeromonas hydrophila\" or mice infected with \"Yersinia enterocolitica\". Therefore, \"Salmonella\" appears to use SdiA to detect the AHL production of other pathogens rather than the normal gut flora.\n\nThe opportunistic pathogen \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" uses quorum sensing to coordinate the formation of biofilm, swarming motility, exopolysaccharide production, virulence, and cell aggregation. These bacteria can grow within a host without harming it, until they reach a threshold concentration. Then they become aggressive, developing to the point at which their numbers are sufficient to overcome the host's immune system, and form a biofilm, leading to disease within the host as the biofilm is a protective layer encasing the bacteria population. Another form of gene regulation that allows the bacteria to rapidly adapt to surrounding changes is through environmental signaling. Recent studies have discovered that anaerobiosis can significantly impact the major regulatory circuit of quorum sensing. This important link between quorum sensing and anaerobiosis has a significant impact on production of virulence factors of this organism. Garlic and ginseng experimentally block quorum sensing in \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\". It is hoped that the therapeutic enzymatic degradation of the signaling molecules will prevent the formation of such biofilms and possibly weaken established biofilms. Disrupting the signalling process in this way is called \"quorum sensing inhibition\".\n\nIt has recently been found that \"Acinetobacter\" sp. also show quorum sensing activity. This bacterium, an emerging pathogen, produces AHLs. \"Acinetobacter\" sp. shows both quorum sensing and quorum quenching activity. It produces AHLs and also, it can degrade the AHL molecules as well.\n\nThis bacterium was previously considered a fish pathogen, but it has recently emerged as a human pathogen. \"Aeromonas\" sp. have been isolated from various infected sites from patients (bile, blood, peritoneal fluid, pus, stool and urine). All isolates produced the two principal AHLs, N-butanoylhomoserine lactone (C4-HSL) and N-hexanoyl homoserine lactone (C6-HSL). It has been documented that Aeromonas sobria has produced C6-HSL and two additional AHLs with N-acyl side chain longer than C6.\n\nThe YenR and YenI proteins produced by the gammaproteobacterium \"Yersinia enterocolitica\" are similar to \"Aliivibrio fischeri\" LuxR and LuxI. YenR activates the expression of a small non-coding RNA, YenS. YenS inhibits YenI expression and acylhomoserine lactone production. YenR/YenI/YenS are involved in the control of swimming and swarming motility.\n\nThree-dimensional structures of proteins involved in quorum sensing were first published in 2001, when the crystal structures of three LuxS orthologs were determined by X-ray crystallography. In 2002, the crystal structure of the receptor LuxP of \"Vibrio harveyi\" with its inducer AI-2 (which is one of the few biomolecules containing boron) bound to it was also determined. Many bacterial species, including \"E. coli\", an enteric bacterium and model organism for Gram-negative bacteria, produce AI-2. A comparative genomic and phylogenetic analysis of 138 genomes of bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes found that \"the LuxS enzyme required for AI-2 synthesis is widespread in bacteria, while the periplasmic binding protein LuxP is present only in Vibrio strains,\" leading to the conclusion that either \"other organisms may use components different from the AI-2 signal transduction system of Vibrio strains to sense the signal of AI-2 or they do not have such a quorum sensing system at all.\" Farnesol is used by the fungus \"Candida albicans\" as a quorum sensing molecule that inhibits filamentation.\n\nA database of quorum-sensing peptides is available under the name Quorumpeps.\n\nCertain bacteria can produce enzymes called lactonases that can target and inactivate AHLs.\nResearchers have developed novel molecules which block the signalling receptors of bacteria (Quorum quenching). mBTL is a compound that has been shown to inhibit quorum sensing and decrease the amount of cell death by a significant amount. \nAdditionally, researchers are also examining the role of natural compounds (such as caffeine) as potential quorum sensing inhibitors. Research in this area has been promising and could lead to the development of natural compounds as effective therapeutics.\n\nThe majority of quorum sensing systems that fall under the \"two-gene\" (an autoinducer synthase coupled with a receptor molecule) paradigm as defined by the \"Vibrio fischeri\" system occur in the Gram-negative Proteobacteria. A comparison between the Proteobacteria phylogeny as generated by 16S ribosomal RNA sequences and phylogenies of LuxI-, LuxR-, or LuxS-homologs shows a notably high level of global similarity. Overall, the quorum sensing genes seem to have diverged along with the Proteobacteria phylum as a whole. This indicates that these quorum sensing systems are quite ancient, and arose very early in the Proteobacteria lineage.\n\nAlthough examples of horizontal gene transfer are apparent in LuxI, LuxR, and LuxS phylogenies, they are relatively rare. This result is in line with the observation that quorum sensing genes tend to control the expression of a wide array of genes scattered throughout the bacterial chromosome. A recent acquisition by horizontal gene transfer would be unlikely to have integrated itself to this degree. Given that the majority of autoinducer–synthase/receptor occurs in tandem in bacterial genomes, it is also rare that they switch partners and so pairs tend to co-evolve.\n\nIn quorum sensing genes of Gammaproteobacteria, which includes \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" and \"Escherichia coli\", the LuxI/LuxR genes form a functional pair, with LuxI as the auto-inducer synthase and LuxR as the receptor. Gamma Proteobacteria are unique in possessing quorum sensing genes, which, although functionally similar to the LuxI/LuxR genes, have a markedly divergent sequence. This family of quorum-sensing homologs may have arisen in the gamma Proteobacteria ancestor, although the cause of their extreme sequence divergence yet maintenance of functional similarity has yet to be explained. In addition, species that employ multiple discrete quorum sensing systems are almost all members of the gamma Proteobacteria, and evidence of horizontal transfer of quorum sensing genes is most evident in this class.\n\nAs quorum sensing implies a cooperative behavior, this concept has been challenged by the evolutionary implication of cooperative cheaters. This is circumvented by the concept of \"diffusion sensing\", which has been an alternative and complementary model to quorum sensing. However, both explanations face the problems of signalling in either complex (multiple species sharing the same space) or simple (one single cell confined to a limited volume) environments where the spatial distribution of the cells can be more important for sensing than the cell population density. A new model, \"efficiency sensing\", which takes into account both problematics, population density and spatial confinement, has been proposed as an alternative. One of the probable reasons for controversy is that current terminologies (quorum sensing, diffusion sensing, efficiency sensing) arise from different models of how natural selection has acted to shape and maintain the process. Since each of the various models does apply under some circumstances but not others, a sensible resolution to these controversies could be to return the terminology of the process to autoinduction, as originally described by Hastings and coworkers, as this term does not imply understanding of the function of the process.\n\nNext to the potential antimicrobial functionality, quorum-sensing derived molecules, especially the peptides, are being investigated for their use in other therapeutic domains as well, including immunology, central nervous system disorders and oncology. Quorum-sensing peptides have been demonstrated to interact with cancer cells, as well as to permeate the blood-brain barrier permeation reaching the brain parenchyma\n\n\"Methanosaeta harundinacea\" 6Ac, a methanogenic archaeon, produces carboxylated acyl homoserine lactone compounds that facilitate the transition from growth as short cells to growth as filaments.\n\nQuorum sensing could be described when it was known that bacteria possess the ability to communicate. In the last few years, interactions between bacteria and eukaryotic hosts, such as plants, have been shown. These interactions are facilitated by quorum-sensing molecules and play a major role in maintaining the pathogenicity of bacteria towards other hosts, such as humans. This mechanism can be understood by looking at the effects of N-Acyl homoserine lactone (AHL), one of the quorum sensing-signalling molecules in gram-negative bacteria, on plants. The model organism used is \"Arabidopsis thaliana\".\n\nThe role of AHLs having long carbon-chains (C12, C14), which have an unknown receptor mechanism, is less well understood than AHLs having short carbon-chains (C4, C6, C8), which are perceived by the G protein-coupled receptor. A phenomenon called \"AHL priming\", which is a dependent signalling pathway, enhanced our knowledge of long-chain AHLs. The role of quorum-sensing molecules was better explained according to three categories: host physiology–based impact of quorum sensing molecules; ecological effects; and cellular signaling. Calcium signalling and calmodulin have a large role in short-chain AHLs response in \"Arabidopsis\". Research was also conducted on barley and crop yam bean that reveals the AHLs determining the detoxification enzymes called GST were found less in yam bean.\n\nQuorum sensing-based regulatory systems are necessary to plant-disease-causing bacteria. Looking towards developing new strategies based on plant-associated microbiomes, the aim of further study is to improve the quantity and quality of the food supply. Further research into this inter-kingdom communication also enhances the possibility of learning about quorum sensing in humans.\n\nQuorum quenching is the process of preventing quorum sensing by disrupting signalling. This is achieved by inactivating signalling enzymes, by introducing molecules that mimic signalling molecules and block their receptors, or by degrading signalling molecules themselves.\n\nClosantel and triclosan are known inhibitors of quorum sensing enzymes. Closantel induces aggregation of the histamine kinase sensor in two-component signalling. The latter disrupts the synthesis of a class of signalling molecules known as \"N\"-acyl homoserine lactones (AHLs) by blocking the enoyl-acyl carrier protein (ACP) reductase.\n\nTwo groups of well-known mimicking molecules include halogenated furanones, which mimic AHL molecules, and synthetic Al peptides (AIPs), which mimic naturally occurring AIPs. These groups inhibit receptors from binding substrate or decrease the concentration of receptors in the cell. Furanones have also been found to act on AHL-dependant transcriptional activity, whereby the half life of the autoinducer-binding LuxR protein is significantly shortened.\n\nRecently, a well-studied quorum quenching bacterial strain (KM1S) was isolated and its AHL degradation kinetic was studied using rapid resolution liquid chromatography (RRLC). RRLC efficiently separates components of a mixture to a high degree of sensitivity, based on their affinities for different liquid phases. It was found that the genome of this strain encoded an inactivation enzyme with distinct motifs targeting the degradation of AHLs.\n\nApplications of quorum quenching that have been exploited by humans include the use of AHL-degrading bacteria in aquacultures to limit the spread of diseases in aquatic populations of fish, mollusks and crustaceans. This technique has also been translated to agriculture, to restrict the spread of pathogenic bacteria that use quorum sensing in plants. Anti-biofouling is another process that exploits quorum quenching bacteria to mediate the dissociation of unwanted biofilms aggregating on wet surfaces, such as medical devices, transportation infrastructure and water systems.\n\nSocial insect colonies are an excellent example of a decentralized system, because no individual is in charge of directing or making decisions for the colony. Several groups of social insects have been shown to use quorum sensing in a process that resembles collective decision-making.\n\nColonies of the ant \"Temnothorax albipennis\" nest in small crevices between rocks. When the rocks shift and the nest is broken up, these ants must quickly choose a new nest to move into. During the first phase of the decision-making process, a small portion of the workers leave the destroyed nest and search for new crevices. When one of these scout ants finds a potential nest, she assesses the quality of the crevice based on a variety of factors including the size of the interior, the number of openings (based on light level), and the presence or absence of dead ants. The worker then returns to the destroyed nest, where she waits for a short period before recruiting other workers to follow her to the nest that she has found, using a process called tandem running. The waiting period is inversely related to the quality of the site; for instance, a worker that has found a poor site will wait longer than a worker that encountered a good site. As the new recruits visit the potential nest site and make their own assessment of its quality, the number of ants visiting the crevice increases. During this stage, ants may be visiting many different potential nests. However, because of the differences in the waiting period, the number of ants in the best nest will tend to increase at the greatest rate. Eventually, the ants in this nest will sense that the rate at which they encounter other ants has exceeded a particular threshold, indicating that the quorum number has been reached. Once the ants sense a quorum, they return to the destroyed nest and begin rapidly carrying the brood, queen, and fellow workers to the new nest. Scouts that are still tandem-running to other potential sites are also recruited to the new nest, and the entire colony moves. Thus, although no single worker may have visited and compared all of the available options, quorum sensing enables the colony as a whole to quickly make good decisions about where to move.\n\nHoney bees (\"Apis mellifera\") also use quorum sensing to make decisions about new nest sites. Large colonies reproduce through a process called swarming, in which the queen leaves the hive with a portion of the workers to form a new nest elsewhere. After leaving the nest, the workers form a swarm that hangs from a branch or overhanging structure. This swarm persists during the decision-making phase until a new nest site is chosen.\n\nThe quorum sensing process in honey bees is similar to the method used by \"Temnothorax\" ants in several ways. A small portion of the workers leave the swarm to search out new nest sites, and each worker assesses the quality of the cavity it finds. The worker then returns to the swarm and recruits other workers to her cavity using the honey bee waggle dance. However, instead of using a time delay, the number of dance repetitions the worker performs is dependent on the quality of the site. Workers that found poor nests stop dancing sooner, and can therefore be recruited to the better sites. Once the visitors to a new site sense that a quorum number (usually 10–20 bees) has been reached, they return to the swarm and begin using a new recruitment method called piping. This vibration signal causes the swarm to take off and fly to the new nest location. In an experimental test, this decision-making process enabled honey bee swarms to choose the best nest site in four out of five trials.\n\nQuorum sensing can be a useful tool for improving the function of self-organizing networks such as the SECOAS (Self-Organizing Collegiate Sensor) environmental monitoring system. In this system, individual nodes sense that there is a population of other nodes with similar data to report. The population then nominates just one node to report the data, resulting in power savings. Ad-hoc wireless networks can also benefit from quorum sensing, by allowing the system to detect and respond to network conditions.\n\nQuorum sensing can also be used to coordinate the behavior of autonomous robot swarms. Using a process similar to that used by \"Temnothorax\" ants, robots can make rapid group decisions without the direction of a controller.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8781229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8781229", "title": "Robert Cecil Beavan", "text": "Robert Cecil Beavan\n\nCaptain Robert Cecil Beavan (1841 - 3 February 1870), corresponding member of the Zoological Society of London, served in India with the Bengal Staff Corps for 10 years. During his short life he collected specimens of birds and eggs at various locations. He contributed notes to the Ibis journal as wells as the Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London. He also collaborated with Allan Octavian Hume. His collection of eggs and birds went into the Natural History Museum through the Tweeddale and Godman-Salvin collections.\n\nIn 1864 Beavan worked at Barrackpore and the winter of that year was spent in the Maunbhoom District, an area studied earlier by Samuel Tickell and Edward Blyth. His notes on this period were published in \"The Ibis\" (1865) entitled \"Notes on various Indian Birds\". While still in service he collected in the Andaman Islands and with additional information from Colonel Robert Christopher Tytler, wrote \"The Avifauna of the Andaman Islands\" in the \"Ibis\" in 1867.\n\nBeavan was sent home once to Britain due to bad health, and on his second such trip, he died at sea.\n\nThe species \"Pyrrhula erythaca\", first collected by him, is sometimes called Beavan's Bullfinch (Also called Gray-headed Bullfinch).\n\nHis brother, Reginald, a lieutenant in the 22nd Punjab Native Infantry (Bengal Staff Corps where he was Lieutenant 1 Jan 1862, Captain 4 May 1872, Major 4 May 1880), was a keen sports hunter and took an interest in fishes.\n\nBeavan's chief publications are a series of notes in the Ibis between 1865 and 1868. These included many notes of Colonel R C Tytler.\n\n\nReginald appears to have communicated some of Robert's papers to the Proceedings of the Zoological society after his death. The \"Handbook of the freshwater fishes of India\", was published posthumously in 1877 and is attributed to \"Capt. R. Beavan, Bengal Staff Corps CMZS\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39331354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39331354", "title": "Sexual coercion", "text": "Sexual coercion\n\nSexual coercion in animals is the use of violence, threats, harassment, and other tactics to help them forcefully copulate. Such behavior has been compared to sexual assault, including rape, among humans.\n\nIn nature, males and females usually differ in reproductive fitness optima. Males generally prefer to maximize their number of offspring, and therefore their number of mates; females, on the other hand, tend to care more for their offspring and have fewer mates. Because of this, there are generally more males available to mate at a given time, making females a limited resource. This leads males to evolve aggressive mating behaviors which can help them acquire mates.\n\nSexual coercion has been observed in many species, including mammals, birds, insects, and fish. While sexual coercion does help increase male fitness, it is very often costly to females. However, in spite of these costs, a possible benefit to the females is a chance to test the stamina of the males, so that only those with \"good genes\" will father their offspring. Sexual coercion has been observed to have consequences, such as intersexual coevolution, speciation, and sexual dimorphism.\n\nHarassment is a technique used by males of many species to force females to submit to mating. It has been observed in numerous species, including mammals, birds, insects and fish. Aggression and harassment have been documented in the males of guppies (\"Poecilia reticulata\"), bottlenose dolphins (\"Tursiops aduncus\"), botos (\"Inia geoffrensis\"), dusky dolphins (\"Lagenorhynchus obscurus\"), Hector's dolphins (\"Cephalorhynchus hectori\"), grizzly bears, polar bears, and ungulates. It is also seen in Chinook salmon (\"Oncorhynchus tshawytscha\"), red-spotted newts (\"Notophthalmus viridescens\"), and seed-eating true bugs (\"Neacoryphus\" spp.). Furthermore, it is prevalent in spider monkeys, wild Barbary macaques (\"Macaca sylvanus\") and many other primates.\n\nIn basically all major primate taxa, aggression is used by the dominant males when herding females and keeping them away from other males. In hamadryas baboons, the males often bite the females’ necks and threaten them. Wild chimpanzees can charge at females, shake branches, hit, slap, kick, pound, drag, and bite them. Orangutans are among the most forceful of mammals. Bornean orangutans (\"Pongo pygmaeus\") exhibited aggression in almost 90 percent of their copulations, including when the females were not resisting. A possible explanation for aggressive behaviors in primates is that it is a way for males to train females to be afraid of them and be more likely to surrender to future sexual advances.\n\nMales may also use more indirect techniques to mate with females, such as intimidation. While most female water striders (Gerridae) have their genitalia exposed, females of the water strider species \"Gerris gracilicornis\" have evolved a shield over their genitals. As a result, males cannot physically coerce females because mating is difficult unless the female exposes her genitalia. Therefore, males intimidate females into mating by attracting predators; they tap on the water’s surface and create ripples that catch the attention of predatory fish. From there, it is in the best interest of the female to mate, and as quickly as possible, to avoid being eaten by predators. Typical mating positions of water striders have the females on the bottom, closer to predators, so the risk of predation is much higher for them. Females succumb to copulation to get males to cease signaling to predators.\n\nAnother indirect form of sexual coercion occurs in red-sided garter snakes, \"Thamnophis sirtalis parietalis\". When males \"court\" females, they line their bodies up to the females' and produce caudocephalic waves, which are a series of muscle contractions that travel through their bodies from tail to head. The exact reason for this behavior is unknown, but some studies show that it relates to stress. Females have nonrespiratory air sacs containing anoxic air, and the waving pushes this air into her lungs. The resulting stress causes her cloaca to open, and aids the male in inserting his hemipenis. The stronger and more frequent the caudocephalic waves and the closer the male’s cloaca to the female’s, the more likely the male is to mate successfully.\n\nMales of certain species have evolved mating behaviors in which they forcefully attempt to mate with and inseminate females, often employing grasping techniques. These male grasping devices exist to increase the duration of copulation and restrict females from mating with other males. They are in some ways a form of mate guarding. While some males have evolved different types of modifications to aid in grasping, others just grab females and attempt to force copulation.\n\nOne type of grasping modification is spiny male genitalia. In seed beetles (Coleoptera: Bruchidae), males possess sclerotized spines on their genitalia. These spines are used during copulation to help overcome female resistance and penetrate into their copulatory duct. In addition to aiding penetration, these spines promote the passage of seminal fluids, and act as an anchor to keep the female from fleeing. Furthermore, spiny genitals can injure the females and make them less likely to remate. Sepsidae fly males have modifications on their forelegs to help them grasp onto female wing bases. These modifications include cuticular outgrowths, indentations, and bristles, and males use them to secure themselves onto females after jumping on them. Once the males grab on, a struggle ensues akin to a rodeo, where males try to hold on while females violently shake them off.\n\nAnother type of modification is found in male diving beetles (of the family Dytiscidae), who are equipped with suction cup structures on their front legs. They use these to grab passing females and attach to their dorsal surfaces. To get the females to submit, males shake the females violently and keep them submerged underwater (diving beetles cannot go long without atmospheric oxygen). Unable to get air, female diving beetles submit to the male’s advances in order to avoid drowning (and they lose the energy to resist). Once the males attach, copulation can occur.\n\nMale waterfowl have developed another modification; while most male birds have no external genitalia, male waterfowl (Aves: Anatidae) have a phallus (length ). Most birds mate with the males balancing on top of the females and touching cloacas in a “cloacal kiss”; this makes forceful insemination very difficult. The phallus that male waterfowl have evolved everts out of their bodies (in a clockwise coil) and aids in inseminating females without their cooperation.\n\nAnother such technique is having a \"lock-like\" mechanism, found in \"Drosophila montana\", dogs, wolves, and pigs. Towards the end of copulation, females struggle to try to dislodge the males, whose genital organs take much longer to deflate than females do; the locking (most commonly known in canids as a \"tie\") allows the males to copulate for as long as they need to until they are finished. In dogs, the male has a knot in his penis that gets engorged with blood and ties the female, locking them together during copulation, until the act is complete. Male dogs have evolved this mechanism during mating in order to prevent other males from penetration whilst they are and the use of the tie enables them to be more likely to inseminate the female and produce a healthy litter of pups. Breaking this \"tie\" can be physically harmful to both females and males.\n\nMales of many species simply grab the females and force a mating. Coercive mating is very common in water striders (Gerridae) because in most of the species, the female genitalia are often exposed and easily accessible to males. Without any courtship behavior, males initiate by forcefully trying to mount the females. Carrying the males on their backs is energetically costly to females, so they try to resist and throw off the males. The males fight back even harder and use their forelegs to tightly grasp the female’s thorax and keep them from escaping. The males then forcefully insert their genitalia into the female vulvar opening. In the newt species \"Notophthalmus viridescens\", males carry out a courtship behavior called amplexus. It consists of males capturing females that do not want to mate with them and using their hind limbs to grasp the females by their pectoral regions.\n\nMale guppies (\"Poecilia reticulata\") have been observed to forcefully copulate with females by trying to insert their gonopodium (male sex organ) into female’s genital pores, whether or not they are accepting. Sometimes, male guppies also try to forcefully mate with \"Skiffia bilineata\" (goodeid) females, which resemble guppy females and tend to share the same habitat, even when guppy females are available. A possible explanation for this is the deeper genital cavity of \"S. bilineata\", which stimulates the males more than when mating with guppy females.\n\nMales of some species are able to immobilize females and force copulation. In pigs and boars, males grab females and maneuver the pelvis to lift the vaginal opening and facilitate copulation. The stimulation following intromission causes the female to be immobilized. The male can then freely continue copulation without worrying about the female escaping. Immobilization of the female also occurs in muscovy ducks.\n\nGrasping and/or grappling mating situations have also been documented in \"Calopteryx haemorrhoidalis haemorrhoidalis\" (Odonata), fallow deer (\"Dama dama\"), wild orangutans (Smuts 1993), wild chimpanzees, water voles (semi-aquatic rats) \"Arvicola amphibius\", feral fowl, mallard (\"Anas platyrhynchos\"), hamadryas baboons and many other primates, coho salmon (\"Oncorhynchus kisutch\"), and others.\n\nIn some mammal species, mostly nonhuman primates, it is common for males to commit infanticide to mate with females. This happens often in species that live in groups, such as Old and New World monkeys, apes, prosimians, and hamadryas baboons. There is usually a single breeding male in a group, and when an outside male aggressively takes over, he kills off all of the young offspring. The males kill infants that are not their own to assert their strength and position, and mate with the females. Sometimes, multiple males will invade a troop and gang up on females, killing their offspring and subsequently mating with them. This occurs in spider monkeys, red-backed squirrel monkeys, chimpanzees, and red howlers.\n\nIn the newt species \"Notophthalmus viridescens\", the males rub off hormonal secretions onto the skin of the females they are courting. These hormones have been shown to make the female more receptive to mating with the male. When the male deposits the secretions, he detaches from the female and releases a spermatophore (containing spermatozoa). It is then the female’s decision to either accept it and pick it up or reject it by running away; these hormones make her more likely to accept it.\n\nAnother form of coercion is male mate guarding, used to keep females from mating with other males, and often involves aggression. Guarding allows the males to assure their paternity. A classic example occurs in diving beetles, family Dytiscidae. After copulation, males continue to guard females for up to six hours. They hold them underwater, occasionally tilting them up for air. Guarding also occurs in water striders where, once males complete their sperm transfer, they often remain on top of the females. This guarding duration varies, lasting from several minutes to several weeks. The purpose of such long guarding periods is for the males to see the females lay their eggs and be assured that the offspring are theirs. This behavior also occurs in hamadryas baboons (\"Papio hamadryas\"), where the leader males practice intensive mate guarding. In \"Drosophila\" Montana, studies have shown that following mate guarding, the chances of a female mating with or being inseminated by another male were greatly diminished. This shows that the mate guarding tactic can be very effective.\n\nMales of some species use bodily fluids, such as seminal fluid from their ejaculate, to aid in the coercion of females. Seminal fluid in males of Drosophila melanogaster may contain chemicals that increase the amount of time it takes for females to remate, decrease the length of successive matings, or keep her from remating at all. The less a female mates with other males after copulation with a male, the more likely it is for him to ensure his paternity. These chemicals may also serve to increase the female’s reproductive success, but at the cost of decreased longevity and immune response.\n\nIn many species, seminal fluid can be used as a sort of mating plug. Males of these species transfer their sperm at the beginning of copulation and use the rest of copulation to transfer substances that help build up the mating plugs. These plugs are effective in ensuring that the female does not mate with any other males and that the male’s paternity is secured.\n\nA major direct cost of sexual coercion is physical injury. Male seed beetles (Coleoptera: Bruchidae) have sclerotized spine on their genitalia, which penetrate the female and leave melanized scars. Females can be physically injured from just one mating, and the more a female mates, the more scarring forms in the copulatory duct. In guppies, the male’s gonopodium can cause damage when forcefully inserted, causing cloacal damage to the females. In fowl, females can be physically injured during forceful copulations. Also, semen transferred from the males can contain pathogens and fecal matter, which can lead to disease and decrease female fitness. In elephant seals, physical injury happens very often. In fact, mating leads to 1 in every 1,000 female elephant seals getting killed. Other species in which the females (and/or their offspring) are injured or even killed include lions, rodents, farm cats, crabeater seals, elephant seals, sea lions, wild Trinidadian guppies (\"Poecilia reticulata\"), red-sided garter snakes (\"Thamnophis sirtalis parietalis\"), and newts (\"N. viridescens\").\n\nAnother cost is the excess energy and time expenditure that comes with mating. For example, female water striders, Gerridae, and marine snails of the genus \"Littorina\" 24 have to carry the males on their backs while they mate. First of all, this is a great loss of energy. Second, both the male and the female are at a much greater risk of predation in this position. Furthermore, the time spent mating interferes with the time that could have been spent foraging and feeding.\n\nIn addition, sexual coercion can lower body condition and immunity in ways other than physical damage. Harassment can lead to stress, which can result in weight loss, decreased immune function and energy stores, and less feeding, which has been seen in red-spotted newts. Furthermore, when females are constantly moving around to avoid violent males, they are not able to form female social ties (for example, Grévy's zebra/Equus grevyi). This also happens in species where herding males sometimes do not permit females to join their family in different groups, like in hamadryas baboons.\n\nIndirect costs are those that affect females in the future. One such cost happens because sexual coercion does not allow females to choose the males they want to mate with, which are usually males that are higher quality, compatible, and/or have good genes that will increase their offspring’s survival and fitness. Coercion decreases this choice and can lead to their offspring having lower genetic quality. Studies of the rose bitterling (Rhodeus ocellatus), have shown that offspring of females with mate choice had higher survival rates than offspring of females that did not. Another ultimate cost comes from when males commit infanticide to obtain mating access. This loss of offspring leads to a decrease in fitness of females.\n\nAs a response to sexual coercion and the costs that females face, one of their counter-adaptations is the evolution of anatomical protection. Females of some species, such as the water striders, developed morphological shields to protect their genitalia from males that want to forcefully copulate. Some Gerridae females have also evolved abdominal spines and altered the shapes of their abdomens to make them less accessible to males.\n\nWaterfowl males of the family Aves: Anatidae have evolved a phallus to aid in coercion. This phallus everts out of the male body (when it’s time to mate) in a counter-clockwise coil. As a response, females have developed vaginal structures called dead end sacs and clockwise coils to protect themselves from forceful intromission. Waterfowl females have evolved these “convoluted vaginal morphologies” to make it harder for males to insert themselves without the female’s consent.\n\nAnother female tactic to counter coercion is to try to avoid males that may cause them harm. To do this, females often change their habitats to get away from aggressive males, as is seen in wild Trinidadian guppies (\"Poecilia reticulata\"). Female bottlenose dolphins behave in similar ways by moving into shallow waters where there are not too many males. Other species that practice mate avoidance are \"Calopteryx haemorrhoidalis\", a species of damselfly, who often try to hide from large groups of males to avoid harassment.\n\nFemales of the marine intertidal periwinkle species (genus \"Littorina\") have another way to avoid males. Males usually recognize female snails by cues in their mucous trails. However, females try to mask their gender by altering these cues. In damselflies, females also try to mask their gender by mimicking male colors, which make them less attractive to males.\n\nAn effective female strategy is the employment of protection and alliances. Some females, such as wild Trinidadian guppies (Poecilia reticulate) associate themselves with protective males who come to their rescue. This also occurs in hamadryas, savanna, and olive baboons, where males and females form friendships where the female gets male protection. In northern elephant seals, the females give loud cries when mounted by undesirable or subordinate males, which attract dominant males to help. A similar phenomenon occurs in elephants, bighorn sheep, and fallow deer, where the females stay close to dominant males for protection.\n\nFemales can also form alliances with other females for protection against aggressive males. In African vervet monkeys, related females often form groups and “gang up” on males. Females of high rank create networks of female alliances; together, they fight away persistent suitors.\n\nResisting males and fighting back are important tactics some species use to counter male coercion. Many females try to vigorously shake off males to dislodge them and flee; this is seen in females sepsid flies and diving beetles. Sepsids also try to bend their abdomen in such a way that males cannot copulate forcefully. Females are especially likely to fight back when they are protecting their offspring. This is seen in mountain gorillas, red howlers, and grey langur females, where males are often infanticidal.\n\nFemale resistance has rarely been found to be effective. Male mammals and birds are usually larger than females, and the sheer size and strength difference makes this very difficult. However, it has been observed in some species, such as squirrel monkeys, patas monkeys, vervets, and captive chimpanzees, that females can “gang up” on males when they are being aggressive. They will even try to protect a female in distress. Females have even been observed to kill immigrant males in wild red colobus monkeys.\n\nSometimes, females choose not to struggle and simply acquiesce to forceful matings. This can happen when they decide that the cost of resisting would be greater than the cost of mating. They use submission to avoid further harassment or aggression, which could end in death or injury. This is often seen in primate species, such as chimpanzees and hamadryas baboons.\n\nSome possible benefits of sexual coercion for females have been hypothesized.\n\nA possible proximate benefit for females is that sometimes after a male mates with a female, he becomes her mate. Then, he would defend and protect her. This is seen in many primate species.\n\nA possible benefit of sexual coercion that would come out in the long run is the “good genes” hypothesis. If males can overcome a female’s resistance, then they must possess good genes that would increase the survival, mating success, and ultimately the fitness of her offspring. The hypothesis is that females can use the sexual coercion process to assess the quality of a male.\n\nSexual coercion often leads to an intersexual coevolutionary arms race. This consists of females evolving adaptations to male advances and males evolving counter-adaptations as a response. Males persist in violent behavior, which favors the evolution of female resistance to defend themselves. In organisms where males have genitalia harmful to females, such as in certain insects, females tend to evolve thicker, less sensitive copulatory tracts. Also, they may evolve shield over their genital openings to prevent intromission. Females of some species of water striders have evolved protection from forceful insemination, such as abdominal spines and downward-bent abdomens to make it harder for males to mate. In response, however, males have counter evolved, also changing the shape of their abdomens to those that would facilitate forceful mating.\n\nThe male waterfowl (Aves: Anatidae) evolution of a phallus to forcefully copulate with females has led to counteradaptations in females in the form of vaginal structures called dead end sacs and clockwise coils. These structures make it harder for males to achieve intromission. The clockwise coils are significant because the male phallus everts out of their body in a counter-clockwise spiral; therefore, a clockwise vaginal structure would impede forceful copulation. Studies have shown that the longer a male’s phallus is, the more elaborate the vaginal structures were.\n\nSpeciation has been observed to be a possible consequence of sexual coercion. In diving beetle species family Dytiscidae, an intersexual arms race occurs between males and females. Males have evolved suction cup structures on their forelegs to help grasp females; females have counter-evolved setose dorsal furrows to impede forceful copulation. This continuous evolution (in both the forward and reverse directions) has led to the recent speciation of \"A. japonicus\" and \"A. kishii\", where females of \"A. kishii\" have lost their dorsal furrows while those of \"A. japonicus\" have not.\n\nSexual coercion can lead to sexual dimorphisms, in which males and females have significant morphological differences. For example, in some species, larger males are more successful in forcefully mating/insemination, leading to a higher fitness. In red-sided garter snakes, \"Thamnophis sirtalis parietalis\", it has been shown that heavier-bodied males were better courters and their size gave them an advantage over smaller bodied snakes. This helps lead to an evolution of sexual dimorphism, with males larger than females. In other species, males that are smaller than females have higher fitness. Basically, many sex-specific morphological adaptations (for example, in Dytiscidae diving beetles, females have setose dorsal furrows that males do not and males have suction cups on their forelegs that females do not) are sexual dimorphisms caused by sexual coercion.\n"}
{"id": "41467228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41467228", "title": "Sophie Radford de Meissner", "text": "Sophie Radford de Meissner\n\nSophie Adelaide Radford de Meissner (November 17, 1854 – April 17, 1957) was an author, playwright, diplomat's wife, spiritualist and socialite.\n\nSophie was born third of seven children to William Radford (September 9, 1809 – January 8, 1890), an officer in the United States Navy, and Mary \"Minnie\" Elizabeth Lovell (April 12, 1829 – October 27, 1903). All the Radford children were born in Morristown, New Jersey except Henry, who was born in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe Radfords resided with their in-laws, the Lovells, on Mount Kemble Avenue in a house previously owned by General John Doughty. At the close of the American Civil War, the Radfords moved to Washington, D.C. Sophie attended Madam Burr's School near Fourteenth Street and New York Avenue where the language was French only, regardless of the subject. She took her grand tour when her father received command of the European Squadron in early 1869 and took his wife and six children to accompany him to Europe.\n\nAs Radford performed his naval duties in the Mediterranean Sea and European west coast, his family sailed with him to Spain, Portugal, Algiers, France, the Netherlands, and Italy. During 1870, Sophie and siblings attended school at Lausanne, Switzerland. A month after the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War, her father relinquished his command and went to Lausanne to retrieve his children believing any battles would be distant. After arrival in Paris, the surrender of the French Army on Sep 2, 1870, caused the Radford family to flee the advancing Prussian Army. At Le Havre they negotiated commercial passage to the United States.\n\nOn February 22, 1877, Sophie fell from her horse while riding in Rock Creek Park and fractured her skull. She remained unconscious into March. Among callers to the family was Waldemar de Meissner, first secretary of the Russian Legation. They married November 20, 1877 in two ceremonies: first at the Episcopal Church and then at the Radford residence on 1736 (now 1734) N Street NW in the DuPont Circle neighborhood. Attendees included President Rutherford B. Hayes and William Tecumseh Sherman.\n\nDuring the next 20 years, de Meissner's diplomatic career took them to Saint Petersburg, Bern and Lisbon. Their only child was a son, Alexandre (also known as Sacha), born September 24, 1878. Sacha was educated in a military college in Russia and rose to the rank of cornet in the 44th Regiment of Dragoons of the Imperial Russian Army.\n\nIn the spring of 1896, Sophie travelled to Russia to visit her son. Waldemar remained in Lisbon, but contracted pneumonia and died during her absence, on April 17, 1896. Sophie moved back to Saint Petersburg to be near her son, accepting a position as lady-in-waiting to another widow, the dowager Empress of Russia, Maria Feodorovna. Three years later, Sacha contracted a throat infection and died on August 28, 1899. Sophie returned to Washington, D.C., widowed and childless at age 45, to reside at her mother's Georgetown home.\n\nSophie wrote for magazines, many articles based upon her experiences abroad. Among them are:\n\nMany of her books are still in publication and include:\n\nThe Russian play \"Ivan the Terrible\" was written circa 1866 about Ivan IV Vasilyevich, who ruled as the first Tsar of All the Russias. The play was one of a trilogy written by Count Aleksey Konstantinovich Tolstoy, a cousin of Count Leo Tolstoy. She attended a production of the play in Russia and determined to translate it into English. In 1901, Sophie sent the play to theatrical agent Elisabeth Marbury to show to actor Richard Mansfield.\n\nMansfield signed a contract with Sophie February 1, 1902 to star in and produce the play. The play premiered March 1, 1904 on Broadway in the New Amsterdam Theatre with Mansfield performing the title row. Mansfield kept the role in his repertoire until his death.\n\nIn 1902 during a return trip to Russia, she translated the second play of Tolstoy's trilogy, Tsar Fyodor Ioannovich.\n\nSophie became a proponent of spiritualism. Her book \"There Are No Dead\" is a collection of conversations with deceased family, friends and others. The first entry was recorded twelve hours after the death of her son. She made newspaper headlines in 1912 when she requested an audience with President William Howard Taft after the sinking of the Titanic. She said she had a message to deliver from a victim of the sinking, Archibald Butt, who was an aide and close friend to Taft.\n\nTwo other victims of the Titanic sinking and also associated with Taft, William Thomas Stead (also a spiritualist) and Francis Davis Millet are said to have communicated with Sophie.\n\nDuring a visit to Saint Petersburg in 1905, she served in the Red Cross to tend casualties from the Russo-Japanese War.\n\nArticles in the society pages of Washington D.C. from the early 1900s mention her at gatherings as a speaker for Russian culture, clothing, etc. Her 80th birthday celebration was noticed in the society pages of the Miami Daily Herald.\n\nSophie spent the last seven years of her life in the Washington D.C. Home For Incurables. At her 100th birthday party, 40 guests, including 3 nieces, attended.\n\nLetters to her niece Edith Lovell (Coyle) Matthes, wife of François E. Matthes, are stored in the François Matthes papers collection, Carton 3, Folder 51, in the Bancroft Library at University of California, Berkeley.\n\nLetters to Julia Keese Colles are stored in the Colles Family Papers, Box 4, Folder 37, in the Morristown and Morris Township Library.\n"}
{"id": "20447211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20447211", "title": "Stafford Air &amp; Space Museum", "text": "Stafford Air &amp; Space Museum\n\nThe Stafford Air & Space Museum is located in Weatherford, Oklahoma, United States. The museum was named a Smithsonian Affiliate in June 2010. The museum features exhibits about aviation, space exploration and rocketry, and a collection of over 20 historic aircraft. Displays include artifacts from the Space Shuttle program, Hubble Space Telescope and the Mir Space Station, a Moon rock, a Titan II missile, a Mark 6 re-entry vehicle, and the Gemini 6A spacecraft.\n\nThe museum is named for legendary astronaut and flight pioneer Lt. Gen. Thomas P. Stafford, a native of Weatherford. Graduating from the US Naval Academy, Stafford is a recipient of the Congressional Space Medal of Honor. A veteran of four space flights, he piloted Gemini VI, and commanded Gemini IX, Apollo 10, and the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project mission.\n\nThe center boasts one of the few actual Titan II launch vehicles on display. The huge rocket body crosses the back of a display gallery from one side of the building to the other. Numerous items acquired from the Smithsonian and on display include: a Gemini flight suit, space food, survival items flown to the Moon on Apollo 11, and the actual flight pressure suit Stafford wore on Apollo 10, the first flight of the lunar module to the Moon. One display includes the hatch through which U.S. astronauts and Russian cosmonauts docked and greeted each other in space. Stafford is pictured reaching through the hatch shaking hands with a Russian cosmonaut. The actual uniforms that the two astronauts were wearing at the time are also on display.\n\nOther exhibits include retired aircraft, such as a Russian MiG-21R and an F-16. Full-size replicas displayed include the Wright Flyer, \"Spirit of St. Louis\", Apollo Command Module, and Gemini spacecraft. The museum also features the Rose & Tom Luczo Educational Center that features a flight simulation computer lab, kids library, and a Talon A3 Motion-Based Flight Simulator that runs X-Plane 11 and Microsoft Flight Simulator X. Also on display is a TP-82 Cosmonaut survival pistol which was given to Stafford by Alexey Leonov.\n\nAs of March 5, 2018, the museum has acquired an Fairchild Republic A-10 Thunderbolt II, also known as the \"Warthog.\" It is on display outside of the museum. In July 2018, the Gemini 6A spacecraft was moved to the museum.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24533456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24533456", "title": "Sérgio Paranhos Fleury", "text": "Sérgio Paranhos Fleury\n\nSérgio Fernando Paranhos Fleury (19 May 1933 – 1 May 1979) was a Brazilian police deputy during the Brazilian military government. He was chief of DOPS, the Brazilian so called \"Department for Political and Social Order\", that had a major role during the years of the Brazilian military dictatorship.\n\nHe became known for his participation in torture and extrajudicial killings during the Brazilian military dictatorship.\nSeveral prisoner reports and witness testimonies indicate that he consistently used torture during interrogations during the time of the military regime.\n\nFleury himself was directly involved in the torture of Tito de Alencar Lima, known as Friar Tito, a catholic friar who fought against the military regime in Brazil.\n\nBesides using torture, Fleury was investigated and denounced by Prosecutors Hélio Bicudo and Dirceu de Mello for murders committed by the Death Squadron. The Public Prosecutor of São Paulo found him to be the main leader of the Death Squadron which was responsible for innumerable extrajudicial killings in Brazil. Although convicted, he did not serve time.\n\nHis biography by Brazilian journalist Percival de Souza, titled \"Autópsia do Medo\", details his involvement with torture and several extrajudicial killings.\nHe was chosen as the deputy of the year two times, in 1974 and 1976, and received an award from the governor Abreu Sodré in 1969.\n\nHe was responsible for the killing of communist leader Carlos Marighella in 1969, and for the attack against members of the Communist Party of Brazil in 1976, who had been labelled terrorists by the military regime.\n\nAccording to his wife, he drowned while out on his boat on May 1, 1979.\n\nA street in the city of São Carlos was named after him until 2009, when protests resulted in legislation that changed the name of the street to Frei Tito.\n\n"}
{"id": "1915857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1915857", "title": "Tagorians", "text": "Tagorians\n\nTagorians or Tagoryans (тагоряне) are a fictional, lizard-like alien race from the Noon Universe created by Strugatsky brothers. Their homeworld is Tagora (Тагора), a planet discovered by the end of the 21st century. An official contact with Tagorians, however, was registered in 2122 AD and a full-scaled diplomatic relationship has been established two years later, as soon as human scientists (led by professor \"Sugimoto\") managed to decode and interpret Tagorian language.\n\nTagorians are mentioned in \"An Attempt to Escape\" and \"Beetle in an Anthill\".\n\nTagorians are a non-humanoid sentient race whose outward appearance resembles that of giant lizards. At the early stages of their lives all Tagorians pass through the larvae phase.\n\nTagorians are very advanced technologically although they spend over 60% of their scientific resources to predict all possible consequences of inventing every new technology. This is characteristical for Tagorians to pay greatest attention to anything new (and not only in science). It is known that Tagorians have only public transportation and no aviation but also they have a well-developed wired communication network.\n\nAt some point, Tagorians engineered a race of non-sentient \"pseudo-humanoids\". When Earth's explorers first arrived on the planet, they mistook them for a local sentient race.\n\nIt is known that aeons ago Tagorians underwent a global genetic enhancement (hence the larva phase), so in some ways they are not the original Tagorians who were a true product of normal evolution. Some believe that the Wanderers were behind that genetic enhancement, but this was never confirmed.\n\nTagorians were the first alien race the Mankind made contact with, about eleven years before the official contact with Leoniders. Although this contact promised benefits for both sides, all diplomatic negotiations were cancelled in 2138 after an expedition to EN-9173 system discovered the so-called \"Sarcophagus\" and the \"Stepchildren Case\" started. The Tagorians believed that those discoveries indicated that humanity was \"tainted\" by the Wanderers.\n\nIt is mentioned in \"An Attempt to Escape\" that there is a human resident (or spy) on Tagora. His name is presumably \"Benny Durov\" (\"Бенни Дуров\") and he is a progressor working under cover on the planet to study Tagorian technology.\n"}
{"id": "3058848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3058848", "title": "The Hunt (The Twilight Zone)", "text": "The Hunt (The Twilight Zone)\n\n\"The Hunt\" is episode 84 of the American television anthology series \"The Twilight Zone\". It originally aired on January 26, 1962 on CBS.\n\nHyder Simpson is an elderly mountain man who lives with his wife Rachel and his hound dog Rip in the backwoods. Rachel does not like having the dog indoors, but Rip saved Hyder's life once and Hyder refuses to part with him. Rachel has seen some bad omens recently and warns Hyder not to go raccoon hunting that night. When Rip dives into a pond after a raccoon, Hyder jumps in after him. Only the raccoon comes up out of the water. The next morning, Hyder and Rip wake up next to the pond. When they return home, Hyder finds that Rachel, the preacher, and the neighbors cannot hear or see him, and are tending to the burial of both him and Rip.\n\nWalking along the road, Hyder and Rip encounter an unfamiliar fence and follow it. They come to a gate tended by a man, who explains that Hyder can enter the Elysian Fields of the afterlife. Told that Rip cannot enter and will be taken to a special afterlife for dogs, Hyder angrily declines the offer of entry and decides to keep walking along the \"Eternity Road,\" saying, \"Any place that's too high-falutin' for Rip is too fancy for me.\"\n\nLater, Hyder and Rip stop to rest and are met by a young man, who introduces himself as an angel dispatched to find them and bring them to Heaven. When Hyder recounts his previous encounter, the angel tells him that the gate is actually the entrance to Hell. The gatekeeper had stopped Rip from entering because Rip would have smelled the brimstone inside and warned Hyder that something was wrong. The angel says, \"You see, Mr. Simpson, a man, well, he'll walk right into Hell with both eyes open. But even the Devil can't fool a dog!\" As the angel leads Hyder along the Eternity Road toward Heaven, he tells Hyder that a square dance and raccoon hunt are scheduled for that night. He also assures Hyder that Rachel, who will soon be coming along the road, will not be misled into entering Hell.\n\n\nThe plot is based on a 1953 episode, \"The Hound of Heaven\", Hamner wrote for \"The Kate Smith Hour\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33614155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33614155", "title": "The Infinite Way", "text": "The Infinite Way\n\nThe Infinite Way is a spiritual movement and activity created by 20th century American healer and lecturer Joel S. Goldsmith (1892–1964). According to Goldsmith, the Infinite Way is a spiritual teaching consisting of principles which anyone may follow and practice, irrespective of their religious affiliation. The Infinite Way reveals the nature of God to be one infinite power, intelligence, and love; the nature of the individual being to be one with God's qualities and character, expressed in infinite forms and variety; and the nature of the discords of this world to be a misconception of God's expression of Himself in His universe.\"\n\nGoldsmith started teaching the lessons of the Infinite Way in 1940 and in 1947 published the book, \"The Infinite Way\". He began teaching and lecturing extensively that year, first in New England, then on the West Coast of the United States and finally in Hawaii. In 1950, Goldsmith began recording his lectures world-wide. \n\n\"'The Infinite Way' is not a religion... but an experience in spiritual living. There is no organization, no structure, no rules, no church buildings, no congregation, no dues, and no bureaucracy. 'The Infinite Way' is composed solely of the inspired works of Joel based on his revelations and experiences: the more than fifty-one books he authored, and the more than twelve hundred hours of his lectures and classes.\"\n\nDuring his life Joel Goldsmith asked for no remuneration for his healing work but he did take it if offered. He also did not participate in overt advertisement of his books and tapes, knowing instead that people would find them as they needed them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4043551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4043551", "title": "Thomas Macdonough", "text": "Thomas Macdonough\n\nThomas Macdonough, Jr. (December 31, 1783 – November 10, 1825) was an early-19th-century American naval officer noted for his roles in the first Barbary War and the War of 1812. He was the son of a revolutionary officer, Thomas Macdonough, Sr. who lived near Middletown, Delaware. He was the sixth child from a family of ten siblings and was raised in the countryside. He entered naval life at an early age, receiving a midshipman's commission at the age of sixteen. Serving with Stephen Decatur at Tripoli, he was a member of \"Preble's Boys\", a select group of U.S. naval officers who served under the command of Commodore Preble during the First Barbary War. Macdonough achieved fame during the War of 1812, commanding the American naval forces that defeated the British navy at the Battle of Lake Champlain, part of the larger Battle of Plattsburgh, which helped lead to an end to that war.\n\nMajor Thomas Macdonough Senior, Captain Thomas Macdonough's father, lived at a farm referred to as \"The Trap\" (also spelled 'Trapp'), in the county of New Castle, Delaware. He received a contemporary education here but it remains uncertain if he attended any sort of formal schools or was taught by family members or a tutor. He was a major in the Continental Army. Macdonough's great-grandfather, also named Thomas Macdonough, lived in Ireland in the Salmon Leap district not far from Dublin. He was of the Protestant faith and succeeding generations were connected with the Episcopal Church in the United States,\n\nThomas Macdonough Jr. was born in a small town near Odessa, which later was named MacDonough, Delaware, in his honor. He was employed in Middletown as a clerk upon the return of his brother James, who lost a leg in a naval battle with a French vessel in 1799 during the Quasi-War with France. Shortly after, Macdonough requested a commission with the United States Navy with the assistance of Senator Latimer from the state of Delaware.\n\nMacdonough was a tall, dignified man with a commanding character which suited him well for military service. He was a devoutly religious man of Episcopal faith, as were his parents and greater family. He was known to adhere to a set of steadfast principles in his personal and military life.\n\nBefore joining the Navy, Thomas, Jr., for unknown reasons, changed the spelling of his last name from \"McDonough\" to \"Macdonough.\nOn May 27, 1800, at the age of sixteen, Macdonough secured a warrant and served as a midshipman aboard the 24-gun , a corvette class ship, converted over from a merchantman vessel and outfitted as a man-of-war.\n\nUnder the command of Captain John Mullowny, \"Ganges\" then set sail for the West Indies. During operations there she captured three French merchant ships between May and September. When hostilities between the United States and France had finally ended the following year on October 20, 1801, Macdonough was assigned to , a 38-gun frigate. Commanded by Alexander Murray, \"Constellation\" was about to embark on its mission in the Mediterranean sea. While serving aboard \"Constellation\" he received a thorough education from Murray in seamanship, navigation, gunnery, and other nautical sciences towards improving his service as a junior officer.\n\nAboard \"Constellation\" in January 1802, Macdonough served with distinction in naval operations against Tripoli during the First Barbary War. This was the same ship that his brother James had served on a few years earlier.\n\nIn 1803, Navy Secretary Robert Smith selected Macdonough to serve aboard , a 38-gun frigate, commanded by William Bainbridge. Macdonough was aboard this ship when it captured the Moroccan ship \"Mirboka\" on August 26, 1803. Shortly before \"Philadelphia\" ran aground and was consequently captured by the Tripolitans, Macdonough had gone ashore on leave. He was reassigned on October 31 to the 12-gun sloop under the command of Lieutenant Stephen Decatur. Macdonough volunteered to join Decatur's successful raid into the harbor of Tripoli. On February 6, 1804, they succeeded in burning and destroying \"Philadelphia\". Having just served on \"Philadelphia\", Macdonough's familiarity made his role in the operation a crucial one. For his heroic actions he was promoted to acting Lieutenant.\n\nMacdonough also accompanied Decatur when they hunted down the murderer of Decatur's brother, James Decatur, who was killed by the commander when he boarded a Tripolitan ship that had pretended to be surrendering. After catching up with and pulling alongside the ship involved, Decatur was the first to board the enemy vessel with Midshipman Macdonough at his heels along with nine volunteer crew members. Decatur, Macdonough and the rest of the crew were outnumbered 5 to 1 but were determined, organized and kept their form, fighting furiously side by side, killing the commander and most of the crew along with capturing the Tripolitan ship.\n\nAfter winning promotion to Lieutenant for his participation in the raid on \"Philadelphia\", Macdonough served aboard the 18-gun brig , the same vessel assisting at Tripoli. Assisting Isaac Hull, he then supervised the construction of several gunboats in Middletown, Connecticut. In January 1806, Macdonough was promoted to a commission of Lieutenant.\n\nAs commander of the 18-gun , Macdonough served patrolling waters near Great Britain and various points in the Mediterranean. He returned to America and enforced the Embargo Act, and the Atlantic blockade, from 1807 and 1808.\n\nIn 1809, he served with Captain Smith aboard , but later requested reassignment. Macdonough returned to Middletown, Connecticut, and was placed in charge of the several gunboats there. In Middletown Macdonough met his future wife, Ann Shaler.\n\nWith the repeal of the Embargo Act, the role of the navy became less active, with a fifth of its officers away on furlough at half pay. Macdonough remained in Middleton for only eight months before requesting a furlough in June 1810. From 1810 to 1812, Macdonough took a leave of absence for two years as the captain of a British merchantman that was en route to India.\n\nAt the beginning of the War of 1812 American naval forces were very small, allowing the British to make many advances into the Great Lakes and northern New York . The roles played by commanders like Oliver Hazard Perry at Lake Erie and Isaac Chauncey at Lake Ontario and Thomas Macdonough at Lake Champlain all proved vital to the naval effort on the lakes that was largely responsible for preserving American territory during that war.\n\nAssigned to USS \"Constellation\", as First Lieutenant, Macdonough returned to active service just prior to the outbreak of the war in June 1812. The ship at this time was being outfitted and supplied in Washington, DC, for its next mission, but was still months away from being ready. Moreover, it did not escape from the British blockade at the Chesapeake Bay until 1814.\n\nRequesting transfer to a more active front, Macdonough was assigned the command of a squadron of gunboats defending Portland, Maine. His stay there was brief when he received new orders from Secretary of the Navy Hamilton. Macdonough was reassigned to Burlington, Vermont to command U.S. naval forces in Lake Champlain in October 1812.\n\nTaking leave from his assignment at Lake Champlain Macdonough married Lucy Anne Shaler on December 12, 1812, at the Christ Church in Middletown by Bishop Abraham Jarvis.\n\nOn June 2, 1813, Macdonough sent Lieutenant Sidney Smith with , along with Sailing Master Loomis with , to guard against British advances at the Canada–US border at the Richelieu River. The impatient Smith sailed into British waters, an action which was contrary to his orders, and at once found himself overpowered by the British squadron. After enduring four hours of battle, Smith was finally forced into surrendering.\n\nOn July 24, 1813, Macdonough was promoted to the rank of master commandant.\n\nWhen the war began in 1812, there were only two American naval vessels on Lake Champlain, and , each carrying ten guns with a crew of fifty. On June 3, 1813, the two vessels were pursuing a British gunboat but were caught up in a strong current that prevented them from maintaining their heading and position, giving the advantage to British forces, resulting in their capture. The loss of the two and only American vessels on the lake gave undisputed control of this strategic waterway to the British. This prompted Macdonough to begin the construction of the corvette and new sloop and several gunboats at the shipyard in Otter Creek at Vergennes, Vermont. While construction was underway, , a schooner, was being converted to a warship carrying seventeen guns.\n\nIn 1814 the ice covering Lake Champlain, which usually lasted well into May, began melting and breaking up early in April. Macdonough feared that the British, who he assumed by now knew of the ship construction going on there, would use the opportunity to capture or destroy the vessels being built. Having learned of Macdonough's ship building activity, the British constructed a heavily armed brig and five large gunboats at 'Isle Aux Noix' over the winter. As Macdonough had predicted, British forces attempted to navigate the lake. Because of unfavorable winds, the British commander Daniel Pring, whose forces were based at Isle Aux Noix in upper Lake Champlain, didn't complete the 65-mile journey to Otter Creek until May 14. Upon arrival, Pring situated his squadron in the lake just off Otter Creek with eight galleys and a bomb sloop, preventing the American forces' passage north and to the sea. For one hour, Commander Pring maintained a heavy fire. However, Macdonough had learned of the attack beforehand from his observers on land and had prepared a defense in anticipation of this likely event. Using the guns of his ships, he had them landed on shore at the mouth of Otter Creek. Macdonough constructed an artillery battery with which he repelled the attack and drove the Royal Navy back to Isle Aux Noix in Canadian waters by autumn. With the way now clear, Macdonough's squadron sailed out of Otter Creek and made its way to Plattsburgh, New York, where it anchored just off shore in anticipation of the next and inevitable British advance.\n\nBy late August 1814, approximately 10,000 British troops under the command of George Prevost had assembled near Montreal at the Canada–US border. Many of these soldiers were well-trained, regular troops who served under Wellington, already battle hardened from their recent defeat of Napoleon in Europe. Macdonough had little naval combat experience. His service in the Barbary wars was limited to gunboat actions and the capture and destruction of \"Philadelphia\". He had yet to experience a ship-to-ship action, being on a vessel that was receiving broadsides, surrounded by dead and wounded men. Regardless of this lack in experience, Macdonough well understood that defending and holding Plattsburgh, thus not allowing General Macomb's troops to be surrounded by British forces on land and water, was vital to winning the war.\nOn September 3, Prevost's army crossed the border and marched into northern New York State, advancing on Plattsburgh. The city was held by General Macomb with less than 2,000 regular troops, with the support of the New York militia, under the command of General Mooers and the Vermont volunteers, under the command of General Strong. However, Prevost who had arrived in earnest was yet aware of enemy strength and positions and refused to march on the city itself without adequate naval support to divert the American forces. A squadron under the command of Commodore George Downie sailed southward into the open lake to engage the American fleet commanded by Macdonough. In anticipation of the British fleet, Macdonough strategically positioned and anchored his fleet a short distance off shore from Plattsburgh and made further preparations for Downie's advance.\n\nOn September 11, Downie's forces departed from Isle-aux-Noix and sailed southward along the Richelieu River into Lake Champlain. Upon encountering Macdonough's fleet waiting in Plattsburgh harbor, Downie immediately attacked, achieving the upper hand early in the battle, largely because of the great firepower of the 36-gun British flagship . As the battle unfolded, the British squadron incurred considerable damage from close-range cannon fire. In the process an American cannon shot blasted a British cannon off its mount, crushing and killing Downie. Through use of anchor and cable tactics, Macdonough in command of was able to swing his ship around the undamaged side of the British flagship, gaining firepower superiority over the British fleet. As the poorly and hurriedly equipped \"Confiance\" with its inexperienced crew attempted the same tactic, Macdonough seized the opportunity and fired a broadside, severely damaging the British vessel and forcing its surrender. Having removed the British flagship from action, the American forces captured or destroyed the remaining larger ships in the fleet.\n\nBoth commanders would have seen the parallels of Macdonough's anchorage on Lake Champlain to that of the French under Vice Admiral Francois-Paul Brueys, opposing British Rear Admiral Sir Horatio Nelson, at the Battle of the Nile in Aboukir Bay on August 1, 1798. A study of Nelson's battles was part of the professional knowledge expected of naval commanders. But Macdonough did all that Brueys did not. He expected to take advantage of the prevailing winds on Lake Champlain that constrained Downie's axis of approach. \"Because nearly every circumstance that worked to Nelson's advantage proved disadvantageous to Downie, the Battle of Lake Champlain is sometimes called the \"False Nile\"\" by the English. The British naval historian William Laird Clowes regarded Macdonough's \"False Nile\" victory as \"a most notable feat, one which, on the whole, surpassed that of any other captain of either navy in this war.\" Clowes echoed Roosevelt's view, \"The British sailors on the lakes were as good as our own, but no better. None of their commanders compare with Macdonough.\"\n\nAfter the battle, Macdonough returned to the British officers their swords. Captain Pring wrote:\n\nUpon wresting control of Lake Champlain from the British, Macdonough's victory forced the British forces to retire to Canada, the actions of which left no grounds for any claims by the British for any territory when the Ghent peace conference convened on December 24. For his success in forcing the retreat of Prevost into Canada, Macdonough was duly promoted to the rank of Captain. He was also awarded the Congressional Gold Medal at this time. He was also awarded by the State of New York a thousand acres of land in Cayuga county, with another hundred acres awarded to him from the State of Vermont, making the once modest commodore a wealthy man.\n\nMacdonough relieved Isaac Hull of command of the Portsmouth Navy Yard on July 1, 1815. In command there for three years, he returned to the Mediterranean Squadron in 1818 and was appointed commander of , a frigate of 44 guns and later transported Hon. G.W. Campbell to the Court of St. Petersburg in Russia stopping in ports in England, Elsineur and Copenhagen along the way.\n\nIn April Macdonough was stricken with tuberculosis but he still remained on duty for as long as possible. After returning to America later in the year, he was given command of a ship of the line, bearing 74 guns under construction in New York harbor. From 1818 to 1823 Macdonough served as her captain. In the fall of 1822 Macdonough toured western New York State visiting Niagara Falls and then battling the rapids sailed down the St. Lawrence River to Quebec in a batteaux\n\nAfter submitting several requests for active sea duty, Macdonough received command of the 44-gun frigate in 1824. However, his health continued to worsen. On October 14, 1825, Macdonough had to relieve himself of his command. On October 14 he turned command of \"Constitution\" over to Captain Daniel T. Patterson at Gibraltar. Intending to return to New York, Macdonough departed the Mediterranean in the merchant brig . The day before his death, in the presence of Dr. Turk, Macdonough drew up and signed a will leaving a small sum of money to his servant, his wife having died several months beforehand. On November 10, 1825, Thomas Macdonough died aboard ship while it was passing Gibraltar.\n\nMacdonough's body was returned to the United States and was buried in Middletown, Connecticut. He was laid to rest alongside his wife Ann Shaler, a lady of a prominent family in Middletown, she having died just a few months earlier.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "102381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102381", "title": "Thomas West, 3rd Baron De La Warr", "text": "Thomas West, 3rd Baron De La Warr\n\nThomas West, 3rd and 12th Baron De La Warr (; 9 July 1577 – 7 June 1618) was an English politician, for whom the bay, the river, and, consequently, a Native American people and U.S. state, all later called \"Delaware\", were named.\n\nThere have been two creations of Baron De La Warr, and West came from the second. He was the son of Thomas West, 2nd Baron De La Warr, of Wherwell Abbey in Hampshire and Anne Knollys, daughter of Catherine Carey, Lady Knollys; making him a great-grandson of Mary Boleyn. He was born at Wherwell, Hampshire, England, and died at sea while travelling from England to the Colony of Virginia.\n\nThomas West received his education at Queen's College, Oxford. He served in the army under Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex, and, in 1601, was charged with supporting Essex's ill-fated insurrection against Queen Elizabeth, but he was acquitted of those charges. He succeeded his father as Baron De La Warr in 1602, and became a member of the Privy Council.\n\nLord De La Warr was appointed governor-for-life and captain-general of the Colony of Virginia, to replace the governing council of the colony under the presidency of Captain John Smith. Subsequently, in November 1609, the Powhatan tribe of Native Americans killed John Ratcliffe, the Jamestown Colony's Council President, and attacked the colony in what became the First Anglo-Powhatan War. As part of England's response, De La Warr recruited and equipped a contingent of 150 men and outfitted three ships at his own expense, and sailed from England in March 1610. The supply fleet arrived in Jamestown in June, just in time to persuade the original settlers not to give up and go home to England. As a veteran of destructive English campaigns against the Irish, De La Warr employed similar \"scorched earth\" tactics against the Native Americans: his troops raided villages, burned houses, torched cornfields, and stole provisions. These tactics, identical to those practiced by the Powhatan themselves, proved effective.\n\nLord De La Warr returned to England due to illness in the spring of 1611, leaving his deputy, Sir Samuel Argall, in charge of the colony. Later that year, De La Warr wrote and published a book titled \"The Relation of the Right Honourable the Lord De-La-Warre, Lord Governour and Captaine Generall of the Colonie, planted in Virginea\". He remained the nominal governor, and after receiving complaints from the Virginia settlers about Argall's tyranny in governing them on his behalf, Lord De La Warr set sail for Virginia again in 1618 to investigate those charges. He died at sea en route to Virginia.\n\nIt was thought for many years that Lord De La Warr had been buried in the Azores or at sea. By 2006, researchers had concluded that his body was brought to Jamestown for burial.\n\nLord De La Warr's brother, John West, later became governor of Virginia, and George Percy's daughter married the son of Governor West.\n\nOn 25 November 1596, De La Warr married Cecily (died c. 1662), the daughter of Sir Thomas Shirley of Wiston, Sussex and Anne, daughter of Sir Thomas Kempe. They had children:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12947189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12947189", "title": "Traumatic stress", "text": "Traumatic stress\n\nTraumatic stress is a common term for reactive anxiety and depression, although it is not a medical term and is not included in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM). What is popularly referred to as Traumatic Stress is covered in DSM-IV by Adjustment Disorders. This includes subtypes of anxiety, depression and disturbance of conduct and combinations of these symptoms. It results from events that are less threatening and distressing than the events that lead to posttraumatic stress disorder.\n\nThe condition presents in a manner similar to posttraumatic stress disorder, but lacking the same intensity.\n"}
{"id": "7392974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7392974", "title": "V. V. S. Aiyar", "text": "V. V. S. Aiyar\n\nVarahaneri Venkatesa Subramaniam Aiyar (2 April 1881 – 3 June 1925), also known as V. V. S. Aiyar, was an Indian revolutionary from Tamil Nadu who fought against the British occupation of India. His contemporaries include Subramanya Bharathi and V.O. Chidambaram Pillai, who subscribed to the militant form of resistance against the British. He went into exile in Pondicherry, then under French rule, when his militant activities attracted a warrant for his arrest from the British colonial government.\n\nAiyar was also a Tamil writer and is considered as the father of modern Tamil short story. He also translated the \"Ramavatharam\" of Kambar and Tirukkural into English. V.V.S Aiyar is mentor of Vanchinathan.\n\nVenkatesa Subramaniam Aiyar was born on 2 April 1881 in the suburb of Varahaneri in Tiruchi. After his early education, he studied in St. Joseph's College and took his B.A in History, Politics, and Latin; he studied for the Law profession and passed the Pleader (junior lawyer) examination from the Madras University in 1902. He then practised as the pleader in the District courts of Tiruchi. Aiyar then moved to Rangoon in 1906 and started practising as a junior in the Chambers of an English Barrister. From Rangoon, he left for London in 1907 and enrolled in Lincoln's Inn aiming to becoming a Barrister at Law. While in London, Aiyar came into contact with Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, an Indian revolutionary, at the India House. Under Savarkar's influence Aiyar began to take an active role in the militant struggle for Indian independence. Aiyar had a son and two daughters.\n\nVenkatesa Subramaniam Aiyar was a close friend of Shuddhananda Bharati; he started with him the Bharadwaja Ashram at Cheranmadevi.\n\nAiyar's militant attitude prompted the British Raj in 1910 to issue a warrant for his arrest for his alleged involvement in an anarchist conspiracy in London and Paris. Aiyar resigned from the Lincoln's Inn and escaped to Paris. Although he wished to remain in Paris as a political exile, he had to return to India. Aiyar landed in Pondicherry on 4 4 December 1910 disguised as a muslim to escape arrest and remained there as exile. Aiyar remained in Pondicherry for over ten years. While in Pondicherry, Aiyar met with fellow revolutionaries Subramanya Bharathi and Aurobindo. In Pondicherry, Aiyar was involved in the plot to assassinate Ashe, the Collector of Tirunelveli. One of his students, Vanchinathan assassinated Ashe. Thus more trouble arose for Aiyar and his companion Subramanya Bharathi.\n\nOn 22 September 1914 the German cruiser entered the Madras harbour and bombarded the city. The British colonial government blamed this on the activities of the exiles in Pondicherry, and urged the French Governor to deport Aiyar and his companions to Africa. The French police brought several charges against the revolutionaries, but failed to convict them. During this period Aiyar translated the Tirukkural into English. He later revealed that he wanted to leave a legacy behind if he were forced to leave the country.\n\nAiyar returned to Madras after World War I and worked as the editor of the newspaper \"Desabhaktan\" (\"Patriot\"). He was arrested in 1921 on sedition charges and spent nine months in prison. While in prison Aiyar wrote the book \"A Study of Kamba Ramayana\".\n\nAs a writer, Aiyar has often been referred to as the \"founder\" of the short story genre in Tamil.\n\nAiyar drowned in the Papanasam falls, when trying to save his drowning daughter Subhadra, on 3 June 1925.\n\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "560593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=560593", "title": "Vorlon", "text": "Vorlon\n\nA Vorlon is a member of a fictional alien species in the \"Babylon 5\" television series and fictional universe. The Vorlon species is a member of the First Ones, a group composed of the earliest species to gain sentience in the galaxy. When in the presence of other species, Vorlons wear encounter suits.\n\nLittle is known of the Vorlon home-world other than its name, which is also Vorlon. Vorlon territory was restricted to other alien species and every known expedition into Vorlon space failed to return to their respective governments. Much like their First One brethren The Shadows, Vorlon is protected by an array of highly advanced and automated defense systems designed to keep out intruders and primitive spacefaring races. These defense systems remain in place and active even after the Vorlons abandoned their home and left known space; evidence suggests that the systems will not allow outsiders entry to Vorlon until 1,000,000 human years have elapsed.\n\nIt is suspected that the Vorlon atmosphere is a highly toxic combination of noxious gases which are harmful to almost all known species. During his time serving as ambassador to Babylon 5, Kosh's quarters were flooded with these gases, but Kosh himself was able to wander the station without additional atmospheric support. This, in addition to the incorporeal nature of their species, has led to speculation that Vorlons do not actually require an atmosphere, and instead utilize it as a deterrent to discourage visitors. When human telepath Lyta Alexander journeyed to Vorlon space to contact them, she was physiologically altered to breathe the atmosphere and serve as attache for the Vorlon embassy.\n\nAside from Lyta Alexander, only one other human has been known to have access to Vorlon space: Sebastian, formerly known as Jack the Ripper, whom the Vorlons took from 19th century Earth in order to employ as an \"Inquisitor\". His fate after the Vorlons left is unknown, though Sebastian hoped that after centuries of \"penance and service\" he would finally be allowed to die.\n\nWhen in the company of aliens, Vorlons wear encounter suits to conceal their true form. The suits are large, cumbersome units with crest-like shoulders and elongated helmets and draping fabric; aside from a single illuminated iris to represent an eye/face, a Vorlon's shape cannot be deduced from the suit's design. While the official Vorlon explanation is that the suit maintains the specific environment necessary to support them, the actual reason is to hide their appearance. In actuality, Vorlons are incorporeal beings who require very little if any environment to survive; Vorlons have even managed to survive in the vacuum of space with no ill effect.\n\nVorlons conceal their identity to prevent undesired reactions from younger races. Unbeknownst to most alien species other than the Minbari, the Vorlons have altered the genetic template of these younger species to include certain psychological traits such as telepathy, and subconscious associations. Before the Vorlons adopted reclusive natures, they actively visited and influenced early civilizations by telepathically projecting racial variations of themselves, causing the younger races to perceive them as kindred. Eventually, the Vorlons inserted this association genetically, altering their perceptions so that anyone viewing them saw them as a race-specific divine being. Humans who look upon an unclad Vorlon would see a winged angel from Abrahamic religions; a Drazi would perceive them as Droshalla, a Narn as G'Lan, a Minbari as Valeria, etc. The process, however, requires telepathic exertion on the part of the Vorlon, and can physically drain them if they are viewed by too many at once.\n\nA Vorlon's true shape, without the aid of telepathic projection, is that of a glowing cephalopod. The only occasion when a Vorlon's true form was viewed by humans was during the assassination of Vorlon Ambassador Ulkesh Naranek in Falling Toward Apotheosis, when his suit was shattered by weaponized electricity.\n\nWhen Ambassador Londo Mollari of the Centauri Republic observed an unsuited Vorlon, he claimed to have not seen anything at all. Show creator J. Michael Straczynski has said about this that: \"Londo saw what he said he saw.\" It is clear that Londo alone saw nothing because of his relationship with the Shadows. Similarly, it is unclear whether the Vorlon was invisible to Londo or if this can be taken less literally to mean that Londo saw nothing of spiritual significance. At least one \"Babylon 5\" novel contradicts Straczynski's statement, saying that Mollari saw a very bright ball of energy. \n\nVorlon physiology makes them biologically immortal (incapable of death by natural causes), and extremely difficult to kill with conventional weaponry. They possess undisclosed levels of telepathic prowess and sensitivity, able to project their consciousness into another person's mind even from extreme distances. They are also able to divide their essence into smaller quantities and insert themselves into other beings to observe or collect intelligence undetected, even by the host themselves. While their physical abilities are largely uncatalogued, they do have physical mass that allows them to strike objects and be vulnerable to certain assaults; Vorlons are susceptible to Florazine, a rare poison of the Damocles Sector, that was used in an early assassination attempt on Kosh Naranek at his first arrival on Babylon 5. Vorlons can, however, be killed by other First One species.\n\nVorlons are known for speaking cryptically with brief phrases that vaguely relate to the question they are asked (e.g., \"The avalanche has already started. It is too late for the pebbles to vote\"). This is typically considered either a limitation of their language as it is translated into English, Interlac, or other languages, or a limitation of the listener's ability to understand; there also remains speculation that they are deliberately obscure to prevent disruptions to the timeline.\n\nThe formal name for their society is the Vorlon Empire, although the nature of Vorlon government was never revealed on the show.\n\nWhile almost all the other species of First Ones left the galaxy, the Vorlons stayed behind to act as guardians for younger species. Vorlons shepherded these worlds and the inhabitants were enthralled by their appearance; some worshipped them as gods.\n\nThe Shadows took on the same mantle with an opposed philosophy. In this conflict, the Vorlons represent Order. They act as architects, building alliances, encouraging the rule of law and inspiring cooperation. In practice, Vorlons enforce adherence to their rules. Their philosophy is embodied by the question \"Who are you?\" Sometimes called \"The Vorlon Question,\" it encourages introspection, patience and places identity over goals.\n\nThe Vorlons shown on the series tend to be enigmatic, usually speaking only brief, cryptic phrases to beings from the younger species. They also appear to take pride in their enigmatic nature:\n\nBy the time of the series, the Vorlons and Shadows have long since lost sight of the original goal. The intent of both elder species was to encourage the growth of younger species through the competition of order and chaos. The conflict metamorphosed into a game for military (rather than ideological) dominion. The Vorlons began to treat the younger species as pawns. This outlook took an extreme shift following the death of the first Ambassador Kosh Naranek, ending with a move to eliminate all worlds touched by the Shadows by means of a planet killer, a huge ship that could reduce a planet to rubble with a single shot. With the Shadows soon reciprocating with a planet killer of their own, the younger species would have been exterminated had it not been for Sheridan's getting the truth out to them.\n\nOver 1 mya ago, the Vorlons decided to build a jump gate to open a doorway to what they believed was the Well of Souls, the source of life. The gate which was built travels neither to normal space nor to hyperspace but to a \"third\" space. They discovered that Thirdspace was inhabited and dominated by a violent telepathic species whose age and technology exceeded their own, and were driven by a supremacist belief that all life other than their own was unworthy and subject to extermination. The used their overwhelming telepathic abilities to control many Vorlons to assist them and alter the device to augment their telepathic powers. While the Vorlons were able to defeat them and deactivate the machine, closing the portal, those remaining under their influence seized the gate and escaped into hyperspace. The device and the supporting ships drifted off the beacon and were lost until the year 2261. This incident marked the first time the Vorlons encountered a race more powerful than The Shadows or themselves and was so traumatic that they implanted the memories into their genetic template as a race memory known as \"The First Mistake.\"\n\nVorlon ships of this period lack the variation and military diversification they displayed by the end of the series; they resemble their basic transports, and are devoid of warships, planet killers or other heavy cruisers.\n\nBy this time many of the First Ones moved beyond the Galactic Rim to explore the vast emptiness between galaxies, and to allow the younger species to evolve on their own. Several of the First Ones decided to stay behind and shepherd the younger species until they were fit to control their own destiny. The primary caretakers were the Vorlons and the Shadows.\n\nAt first there was a balance between the two sides. Then the Vorlons began tinkering with species on a genetic level, in an effort to make the younger species evolve more like them. Among this genetic dabbling, the Vorlons manipulated the younger species to make them see the Vorlons as angelic prophets. Through this action the Vorlons were able to control the perceptions of the younger species. Finding the actions of their ancient counterparts appalling, the Shadows and the Vorlons began to fight among themselves and those who tried to mediate, like the Walkers of Sigma 957, left the conflict embittered.\n\nOver the course of the centuries that passed, the wars between the Shadows and Vorlons persisted. Then at some unknown point in time they decided to have the younger species fight for them, in an effort to prove which side was right. This led to the Great War.\n\nThe date of the war is unclear but it began roughly one thousand years before the founding of Babylon 5. This war raged between the Shadows and the combined forces of the Vorlons and many younger species such as the Minbari, who, at the time, were the oldest spacefaring race who were not First Ones themselves. The Vorlons were eventually forced to ask the other First Ones for assistance in curbing the Shadows' advance. The war escalated to such intensity that virtually all younger species except for the Minbari were exterminated or reduced to stone-age levels. The Shadows also lost 3/4 of their entire fleet in the process, and buried individual capital ships on planets all over the galaxy—including Mars—to preserve them for the next Great War. In spite of the Shadows' retreat, the aftermath of the war provided no discernible winner.\n\nThe outcome of the Great War was determined by the arrival of Babylon 4, which had been brought from the future through an artificially induced rift in space-time. With the arrival of the station and the Minbari religious figure Valen, the Vorlons were able to acquire detailed information about the future and the events precipitating the next Shadow War 1,000 years in advance.\n\nThe final Shadow War occurred one thousand years later in 2260. The Shadows battled the combined forces of Babylon 5, the Minbari Federation, the Narn Regime, the League of Non-Aligned Worlds and the Rangers. The Vorlon Empire originally consented to aid this combined force. Following the death of the Vorlon Ambassador Kosh Naranek, and the departure of Babylon 4 to the past, their behavior became more aggressive and paranoid. Following Captain John Sheridan's trip to Z'ha'dum, the Vorlons decided to end the war in their favor through the use of excessive force by destroying entire planets where The Shadows held outposts or colonies. In response, The Shadows adopted the same policies and retaliated in kind with their own planet killer technology. The resulting campaigns of devastation cost billions of lives.\n\nSheridan brought the two forces into contact at Corianna VI and then launched a suicidal assault on both sides at once. An armada of allied ships and the remaining First Ones managed to stop the Vorlon planet killer but more importantly demonstrated the younger species' defiance against their \"protectors\", that both the Shadows and Vorlons had failed to act as guardians, parents and teachers to the younger species. Faced with either letting them go or exterminating them, the Vorlons and Shadows stood down and left the galaxy with the remaining First Ones to join the others beyond the rim.\n\nFollowing their departure, no more First Ones remain in the galaxy.\n\nAfter the Vorlons left the galaxy, their homeworld's defense systems were left active. As a result, several expeditions to the planet were destroyed. The Vorlons also left a message with Lyta Alexander that the planet was not for the younger species. The Vorlon Homeworld was not to be theirs until they were ready; at least another million years.\n\nLyta Alexander was left with other information as well. In the movie \"Thirdspace\", she was able to give information on the Thirdspace aliens. When the Drakh used Shadow control pods to operate Centauri vessels during their war with the Alliance, Alexander was able to identify the devices due to the information left with her.\n\nIn 2262 Lyta revealed that the Vorlons had modified her to be a living telepathic superweapon - a doomsday machine to be used against the Shadows if the Vorlons lost the war. They made her into the most powerful human telepath in existence, with the possible exceptions of Jason Ironheart, who had already transformed into something similar to a First One; and Kevin Vacit, former Director of Psi Corps who had carried a Vorlon fragment inside himself.\n\nOne million years after the events of Babylon 5, the humans had become like the Vorlons. The humans had left the solar system for a planet called \"New Earth\". J. Michael Straczynski indicated that New Earth was in fact the old Vorlon homeworld in the DVD commentary for the episode \"The Deconstruction of Falling Stars\".\n\nVorlon spaceships are organic in nature and at least partially sentient. Vorlon transports at least have a skin that can change color and an external shape that is pliable enough to allow passengers in and out. It was mentioned that Vorlon transports \"sing\", and can have an unnerving effect on non-Vorlons around them. Vorlon ships use jumpgates similar to those of the younger species. Vorlon technology was also used along with Minbari technology to help create the White Star spacecraft.\n\nVorlon ships differ greatly from their Shadow counterparts. While smaller ships are equally maneuverable to Shadow vessels, Vorlon capital ships are large carriers that are less agile. While Shadow vessels utilize a powerful pinpoint directed energy beam as their primary weapon, Vorlon ships have elongated structures resembling tentacles at the face of their ships that channel massive amounts of energy into capacitance, which are then fired as powerful beams of energy. This method of power generation and offensive capability was later adopted by the Interstellar Alliance into the creation of their prototype destroyer vessels several years after the Shadow War.\n\nThe most frequently seen Vorlon ship is the Vorlon transport. According to the Babylon 5 video game, \"Into the Fire\", Vorlon transports are long and heavily armed There is a strong bond between a Vorlon and its transport. When its pilot is in danger, the transport becomes extremely agitated and will try to help its Vorlon escape.\n\nShould its pilot die, Vorlon transports are said to grieve. When Kosh died, his ship cremated itself and Kosh's remains in a nearby star. Babylon 5 creator J. Michael Straczynski put it thus: \"It was made for Kosh, as Delenn points out, was almost a part of him; it wouldn't function as well, if at all, for anyone else. There was nothing else to be done.\"\n\nLittle is known about Vorlon fighters. According to the \"Babylon 5\" video game they are about long. Externally, they lack exhaust ports of any kind, suggesting that they use some type of gravimetric drive similar to that used by the Minbari. In groups they perform well, causing severe damage to a Shadow vessel.\n\nUnlike other small fighters in the \"Babylon 5\" universe, Vorlon fighters appear to have independent jump capability, where large numbers come out of hyperspace without the apparent need for a capital ship's support. Vorlon fighters have a much weaker bond between themselves and their pilots than Vorlon transports. Indeed, it is not at all certain that they are manned.\n\nThese large ships, called Star Dreadnoughts, are said to be over long. They likely carry a large number of Vorlon fighters, and, according to J. Michael Straczynski, carry a full crew of Vorlons.\n\nThe biggest ships in the Vorlon fleet appear to be the Eclipse Planet Killers, huge starships capable of destroying entire worlds. They are said to be long. The first planet to be hit by a planet killer was called Arcata 7. It was reduced to rubble, slag, dust and asteroids, killing the 4 million people on it.\n\nIt is implied throughout the series that they have interfered with the evolution of many species, including humans, Minbari, Narns, and Drazi. Each of these species \"see\" Vorlons outside their encounter suits as some type of religious or mythological character particular to their culture. The only Centauri to see a Vorlon outside his encounter suit was Londo Mollari, who claimed he saw nothing. During the episode \"Secrets of the Soul\", a flashback depicted Vorlons modifying a human adult (Lyta Alexander) and fetuses of the Drazi and Centauri races.\n\nThe Vorlons also have the ability to alter alien species in other ways. Lyta Alexander was given \"gills\" on her neck that allowed her to breathe the atmosphere within the Vorlon ambassador's chamber, though the Narn can do much the same. Vorlons also use other beings as receptacles for a fragment of their personality, allowing them to travel widely without being noticed.\n"}
{"id": "16363305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16363305", "title": "Woman's Peace Party", "text": "Woman's Peace Party\n\nThe Woman's Peace Party (WPP) was an American pacifist and feminist organization formally established in January 1915 in response to World War I. The organization is remembered as the first American peace organization to make use of direct action tactics such as public demonstration. The Woman's Peace Party became the American section of an international organization known as the International Committee of Women for Permanent Peace later in 1915, a group which later changed its name to the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom.\n\nPrior to the establishment of the Woman's Peace Party, the three leading American pacifist organizations of national stature were essentially conservative enterprises, viewing the peace movement's mission as one of extending stability, order, and the expansion of venerable American institutions.\n\nThe American Peace Society (BBC), established in 1828, was the oldest of the previously existing pacifist organizations and suffered from what one historian has called \"over seven decades of accumulated Victorianism. Typified by the detached conservative nobility of corporate attorney Elihu Root, the APS was dedicated to demonstrating the incompatibility between war and Christianity and throughout its existence had remained small, impoverished, and ineffectual. By the time of World War I, it had been reduced in status to that of a veritable subsidiary of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.\n\nThe Carnegie Endowment was launched by industrialist Andrew Carnegie in 1910 with a $10 million endowment. The Endowment became effectively a university publishing house for the peace movement, concentrating on academic research and the printed word rather than oratory.\n\nThe third of the primary American peace organizations of the first decade of the 20th Century was the World Peace Foundation (WPF), a group established in 1909 by millionaire Boston publisher Edwin Ginn as \"Edwin Ginn's International School for Peace.\" This organization was launched with a $1 million endowment and carried on publishing activities, changing its name to the WPF in 1911. As with the Carnegie Foundation, the WPF limited its activities largely to research and publication, attempting to influence political decision-makers with ideas rather than to stir the fires of popular sentiment.\n\nMuch like the trustified world of big business of the day, the peace movement was characterized by interlocking directorates of the various organizations, with a very few men and no women wielding decisive influence over the movement by virtue of the power of the pocketbook. The American peace movement was, in short, part of the political establishment, with dinner meetings of the New York Peace Society likened by one contemporary to \"a banquet of the Chamber of Commerce.\"\n\nAlthough the establishment of a permanent organization did not follow for more than four months, the roots of the Woman's Peace Party lay in a protest march of 1500 women in New York City on August 29, 1914. This \"Woman's Peace Parade\" was organized less than a month after the outbreak of hostilities in World War I and featured a silent procession down Fifth Avenue behind a white banner bearing a dove in front of somber crowds lining the streets.\n\nThe chair of the Woman's Peace Parade committee was Fanny Garrison Villard, a 70-year-old veteran of the peace movement. Her son, Oswald Garrison Villard, later recalled the scene:\n\"There were no bands; there was dead silence and the crowds watched the parade in the spirit of the marchers, with sympathy and approval. The President had also approved, for the organizers, in complete sympathy with his public statements of the early days of the conflict, had courteously asked him for his consent. He was especially pleased by the decision of the paraders to carry no flags except the peace flag and to have no set speeches at the conclusion of the parade, but brief informal addresses were made to all who would listed...\n\"The silence, the dignity, the black dresses of the marchers — those who did not have black dresses wore black arm bands — the solemnity of the crowds, all of these produced a profound effect on the beholders.\"\n\nThe Woman's Peace Parade marked a change of methods of the peace movement. Older American peace organizations limited themselves to working behind the scenes, attempting to influence policy through regular political channels. The Peace Parade, on the other hand, made use of direct action, attempting to build popular support for peace through public demonstration in the same way that labor organizations had historically fought for policies and settlements which were important to them. With this tactical shift, the Woman's Peace Parade and the organization which emerged from it, the Woman's Peace Party, effectively marked the beginning of the modern peace movement.\n\nIn the aftermath of the march, Fanny Garrison Villard sought to transform the temporary organization constructed to coordinate the march into a permanent group. Villard called upon one of her old rivals in the women's movement, Carrie Chapman Catt, President of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance to help in this regard. Catt, a former associate of Susan B. Anthony, was fixated upon the struggle for women's right to vote and did not see the peace march as a likely vehicle for a change of public sentiment or national policy. Still, Catt was won over to the idea that the American suffrage movement stood to gain in support and stature if women could gain a prominent role in the noble struggle for an end to the European bloodbath.\n\nIn the middle of December 1914, Catt was finally persuaded to give full effort for the launch of a national women's peace organization. She wrote to settlement worker Jane Addams of Hull House in Chicago, attempting to bring her into the forthcoming organization as its leader. Addams had long believed in a close interrelationship between international peace, domestic humanitarian reform, and women's right to vote and was won over to the idea of a national women's peace movement. The stage was set for a formal launch of the new organization — a group to be called the Woman's Peace Party.\n\nThe Woman's Peace Party was established at an organizational convention held in Washington, DC on January 9–10, 1915. The gathering was attended by more than 100 delegates representing women's organizations from around the United States.\n\nJane Addams was elected President of the new organization by the convention and given the power to select a Secretary and Treasurer for the group, which was to be headquartered in Addams' home city of Chicago. Membership in the new organization was open to all groups willing to repurpose themselves also as a \"peace circle\" and to any woman paying a $1 annual membership fee. Officers ultimately included Lucia Ames Mead as National Secretary, Harriet P. Thomas as Executive Secretary, Sophonisba P. Breckinridge as Treasurer, and Elizabeth Glendower Evans as National Organizer.\n\nThe convention approved a platform calling for the immediate convocation of \"a convention of neutral nations in the interest of an early peace,\" the limitation of armaments, organized opposition to militarism (or military intervention) in America, democratization of foreign policy, removal of the economic motivation for war, and the expansion of the electoral franchise for women. The right of women to vote was seen by the female participants in the organization as part-and-parcel of the cause for peace, based on the presumption that women were inclined by nature to be oriented towards the nurturing of human life.\n\nThe founding convention also approved a supplemental \"Program for Constructive Peace\" which demanded that the American government to call a conference of neutral nations and declared that, failing that, \"the party itself will call an unofficial conference of pacifists from the world over\" to determine a course of action. To ensure that the current war was not merely a prelude for another, the program called for a peace based upon no transfers of territory without the will of the involved people, no indemnities to be assessed outside those in accordance with international law, and no treaties between nations to be established without ratification of representatives of the people.\n\nActivities concluded with a mass meeting held in the ballroom of the New Willard Hotel on Sunday, January 10, which was filled to capacity. An additional overflow meeting was held in another room but still some 500 interested people had to be turned away for lack of space. Speeches were delivered to this gathering by Jane Addams, and feminist activists Emmeline Pethick-Lawrence of England, Rosika Schwimmer of Hungary, among others.\n\nThe ongoing war in Europe forced the cancellation of the scheduled biennial convention of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance, which had been slated for Berlin in 1915. The cancellation of the German gathering provided an opportunity for the women's peace movement to hold an international gathering of their own, and a call was issued for a convention to be held in the neutral Netherlands. Jane Addams, President of the Woman's Peace Party and arguably the most respected and influential woman in America was invited to preside over the conclave.\n\nIn April 1915, 47 women, including many members of the Woman's Peace Party along with representatives of other organizations, boarded the Dutch cruise ship the \"MS Noordam\" for the dangerous journey to The Hague. Among those making the trip through mine-strewn waters were social worker Grace Abbott, epidemiologist Alice Hamilton, radical trade unionist Leonora O'Reilly, and academic and future Nobel Peace Prize winner Emily Balch.\n\nThe trip was not without controversy, despite America's formally neutral status, with former President Theodore Roosevelt declaring the women's mission \"silly and base\"\" and calling the women cowards who sought peace \"without regard to righteousness.\" The American women were not dissuaded, sailing into danger with a homemade blue and white banner that bore the single word, \"PEACE.\"\n\nThe \"Noordam\" was held up for four days in the English Channel by the Royal Navy but was ultimately allowed to proceed to The Hague, which it arrived barely in time for the start of the three-day congress on the evening of April 28, 1915. Despite the decision of some combatant nations, such as Great Britain, to deny its citizens passports which would have allowed them to participate in the Congress, the gathering still proved to be a massive event, bringing together 1,136 delegates and more than 2,000 visitors.\n\nThe congress drafted a series of resolutions detailing plans for a just peace, calling for general disarmament and the removal of the profit motive through nationalizing the production of armaments, and asserting the benefits of free trade and freedom of navigation on the high seas. A resolution calling for continuous mediation of disputes by a conference of neutral nations was passed, but ultimately failed to come to fruition. A delegation headed by Addams was dispatched to the capitals of the belligerent powers but it, too, proved ineffectual.\n\nBefore adjourning, the congress established a new international organization called the International Committee of Women for Permanent Peace. The Woman's Peace Party came to regard itself as the American section of this organization.\n\nIn 1921 the International Committee of Women for Permanent Peace formally changed its name to the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom.\n\nAn archive of the records of the Woman's Peace Party from 1915 to 1920 resides at Swarthmore College in Swarthmore, Pennsylvania as part of its Peace Collection.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
