{"id": "58143186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58143186", "title": "Abdennour Mezzine", "text": "Abdennour Mezzine\n\nAbdennour Mezzine (born 1965) is a Moroccan doctor and writer. He was born in the town of Ben Ahmed in northern Morocco. He has been practicing medicine since the 1990s. He started his literary career by publishing French-language poetry in the \"Al-Ra'i\" newspaper in Rabat, followed by Arabic short stories that appeared in the \"Al Ittihad Al Ichtiraki\" newspaper in Casablanca. He has published a number of books, among them \"The Mustard Gas Kiss\" (short stories, 2010), \"Commandments of the Sea\" (poetry, 2013) and \"Letters of the Storm\" (novel, 2015) which was nominated for the 2016 Arabic Booker Prize.\n"}
{"id": "2770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2770", "title": "Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical Classification System", "text": "Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical Classification System\n\nThe Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical (ATC) Classification System is used for the classification of active ingredients of drugs according to the organ or system on which they act and their therapeutic, pharmacological and chemical properties. It is controlled by the World Health Organization Collaborating Centre for Drug Statistics Methodology (WHOCC), and was first published in 1976.\n\nThis pharmaceutical coding system divides drugs into different groups according to the organ or system on which they act, their therapeutic intent or nature, and the drug's chemical characteristics. Different brands share the same code if they have the same active substance and indications. Each bottom-level ATC code stands for a pharmaceutically used substance, or a combination of substances, in a single indication (or use). This means that one drug can have more than one code, for example acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) has as a drug for local oral treatment, as a platelet inhibitor, and as an analgesic and antipyretic); as well as one code can represent more than one active ingredient, for example is the combination of perindopril with amlodipine, two active ingredients that have their own codes ( and respectively) when prescribed alone.\n\nThe ATC classification system is a strict hierarchy, meaning that each code necessarily has one and only one parent code, except for the 14 codes at the topmost level which have no parents. The codes are semantic identifiers, meaning they depict in themselves the complete lineage of parenthood.\n\nThe ATC system is based on the earlier Anatomical Classification System, which is intended as a tool for the pharmaceutical industry to classify pharmaceutical products (as opposed to their active ingredients). This system, confusingly also called ATC, was initiated in 1971 by the European Pharmaceutical Market Research Association (EphMRA) and is being maintained by the EphMRA and the Pharmaceutical Business Intelligence and Research Group (PBIRG). Its codes are organised into four levels. The WHO's system, having five levels, is an extension and modification of the EphMRA's. It was first published in 1976.\n\nIn this system, drugs are classified into groups at five different levels:\n\nThe first level of the code indicates the anatomical main group and consists of one letter. There are 14 main groups:\n\n\"Example\": C Cardiovascular system\n\nThe second level of the code indicates the therapeutic subgroup and consists of two digits.\n\n\"Example\": C03 Diuretics\n\nThe third level of the code indicates the therapeutic/pharmacological subgroup and consists of one letter.\n\n\"Example\": C03C High-ceiling diuretics\n\nThe fourth level of the code indicates the chemical/therapeutic/pharmacological subgroup and consists of one letter.\n\n\"Example\": C03CA Sulfonamides\n\nThe fifth level of the code indicates the chemical substance and consists of two digits.\n\n\"Example\": C03CA01 furosemide\n\nThe \"Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical Classification System for veterinary medicinal products\" (ATCvet) is used to classify veterinary drugs. ATCvet codes can be created by placing the letter Q in front of the ATC code of most human medications. For example, furosemide for veterinary use has the code QC03CA01.\n\nSome codes are used exclusively for veterinary drugs, such as \"QI Immunologicals\", \"QJ51 Antibacterials for intramammary use\" or \"QN05AX90 amperozide\".\n\nThe ATC system also includes defined daily doses (DDDs) for many drugs. This is a measurement of drug consumption based on the usual daily dose for a given drug. According to the definition, \"[t]he DDD is the assumed average maintenance dose per day for a drug used for its main indication in adults.\"\n\nNational issues of the ATC classification, such as the German \"Anatomisch-therapeutisch-chemische Klassifikation mit Tagesdosen\", may include additional codes and DDDs not present in the WHO version.\n\nATC follows guidelines in creating new codes for newly approved drugs. In order to create a new ATC code, an application has to be sent to the WHO. New ATC codes are published twice annually. A formal release of new ATC edition occurs once a year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46709230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46709230", "title": "Ancient Filipino diet and health", "text": "Ancient Filipino diet and health\n\nAncient diet is mainly determined by food's accessibility which involves location, geography and climate while ancient health is affected by food consumption apart from external factors such as diseases and plagues. There are still a lot of doubt about this ancient diet due to lack of evidence. Similar to what anthropologist Amanda Henry has said, there are a lot of time periods in the human history but there are only theories to answer questions on what people actually ate then. Only recently have traces been discovered in what was left of these people.\n\n\n\n\n\nDue to geographic conditions in the Philippines, native fish are preserved to combat rapid spoilage which includes preservation by drying, salting and smoking. In drying, large fishes are usually used to make daing while smaller fishes are used to make cuyo. Salting and wet-salting is a popular practice in areas that are relatively remote from large markets due to seasonality of fishing season. While smoking fish or the process of making tinapa is done by brining, cooking and smoking that is usually done in places surrounding Manila Bay such as Bataan and Rizal.\n\n\nBelow are some of the foods consumed and the diseases they cause.\n"}
{"id": "52309372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52309372", "title": "Automatic toilet paper dispenser", "text": "Automatic toilet paper dispenser\n\nAn automatic toilet paper dispenser is a toilet roll holder that can be either button or sensor-activated to fold and cut the toilet paper automatically.\n\nThe automatic toilet-paper dispenser can help aid disabled users, especially in large facilities.\n\nThe Camitool by the Japanese company Shikoku uses motion sensor to dispense the toilet paper, so users do not have to touch the machine. It also cuts paper into 60, 90, or 120 cm portions and can be used with almost any brand of toilet paper. The dispenser comes in plastic as well as wood versions which cost roughly $750 and $1,200 respectively. It was released in 2012 and is currently being used by hospitals, and in public buildings in Kagawa.\n\nThe SCOTT by Kimberly-Clark is activated when the user waves his hand under a sensor on the machine or by pushing and turning a knob on the front of the dispenser. A given amount of toilet paper with a programmable sheet length — 16\", 20\" and 24\" - is rolled out through the dispenser. K-C claims a 20% reduction in the amount of toilet paper by using the SCOTT. It was released in 2007.\n\nThe TPer is a prototype of an automatic toilet-paper dispenser. It works by spinning up an appropriate amount of folded paper before slicing it free. It was created in order to aid disabled and elderly users.\n\nThe Eadan brand by Hangzhou Golden Key Science and Technology Co., Ltd includes the functions of infrared induction, automatic paper feeding and automatic cutting. It comes with LCD display screen for information on time, paper quantity regulation and working state. It can be operated by using either batteries or DC power input.\n\nThe OriFuji automatically cuts the toilet papers and folds them into a neat triangle shape. This makes it easier for the next person to pull and roll out the paper. A total of 10 companies in Japan put their combined energies into the creation of the new automated paper cutting and folding machine. The concept initially came about as a way to express the Japanese culture of omotenashi (hospitality), as to greet and welcome foreigners with heartwarming service in restrooms ahead of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. It was first introduced in 2015.\n\nThe Useless Duck Company's \"useless toilet paper machine\" is a parody of automatic toilet paper dispensers.\n\n"}
{"id": "25775588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25775588", "title": "Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council", "text": "Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council\n\nThe Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council (BMDC) was formed under the Bangladesh Medical Council Act. This act was made in 1973, hence it is also called 1973 Act of Bangladesh Medical Council. \n\nIt is located in the capital of Bangladesh, Dhaka in Bijoy Nagor. Its function is to give registration to medical and dental graduates to practice medicine and dentistry in Bangladesh. It also recognise the medical and dental education specially the graduation and the post graduation education in medical and dental science that are permit to recognised practice in Bangladesh.\n\nThe Bangladesh Medical & Dental Council is the regulatory authority and the custodian of medical and dental basic and higher education in Bangladesh. BMDC is regulating the undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental education in Bangladesh.\n\nAs a regulatory authority in Medical and Dental sector in Bangladesh role played by BMDC are as below:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15404854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15404854", "title": "Barefoot v. Estelle", "text": "Barefoot v. Estelle\n\nBarefoot v. Estelle, 463 U.S. 880 (1983), is a United States Supreme Court case. The Court ruled on the admissibility of clinical opinions given by two psychiatrists hired by the prosecution in answer to hypothetical questions regarding the defendant's future dangerousness and the likelihood that he would present a continuing threat to society in this Texas death penalty case. The American Psychiatric Association submitted an \"amicus curiae\" brief in support of the defendant's position that such testimony should be inadmissible and urging curtailment of psychiatric testimony regarding future dangerousness and a prohibition of such testimony based on hypothetical data.\n\nIn \"Estelle v. Smith\", 451 U.S. 454 (1981), the Supreme Court previously ruled on a Texas death penalty case regarding the use of a psychiatric examination to determine the defendant's competency to stand trial to predict future dangerousness. In that case the Court held that the Fifth Amendment's privilege against self-incrimination applied to pretrial psychiatric examinations by a prosecution psychiatrist who later testified regarding the defendant's future dangerousness without warning the defendant that such evidence could be used against him. The Court reasoned that although a defendant has no generalized constitutional right to remain silent at a psychiatric examination limited to the issues of sanity or competency, full Miranda warnings must be given with respect to testimony concerning future dangerousness.\n\nThomas Barefoot (February 23, 1945 - October 30, 1984) was convicted of the murder of a police officer. The same Texas jury determined, in the sentencing phase of the trial, whether Barefoot should receive the death penalty.\n\nThe Texas death-penalty statute required that the jury consider whether Barefoot would pose \"future dangerousness\". Along with other evidence, the prosecution called two psychiatrists who, answering hypothetical questions, testified that Barefoot was likely to remain a danger to society. Neither psychiatrist had examined Barefoot nor asked to do so, but each summarized their professional experience as equipping them to answer the questions accurately. One psychiatrist called Barefoot a \"criminal sociopath\" and said there was no treatment for this condition and that Barefoot was likely to commit acts of violence in the future. The other psychiatrist testified that Barefoot had \"a fairly classical, typical, sociopathic personality disorder.\" He placed Barefoot in the \"most severe category\" of sociopaths, and on a scale of one to ten, Barefoot was \"above ten\". The jury considered this as well as other evidence and imposed the death penalty.\n\nThe Court ignored amicus briefs arguing that psychiatric evidence cannot be offered on such issues with any reasonable degree of certainty.\n\nBarefoot appealed to the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals which rejected his argument that this use of psychiatric testimony during the sentencing phase of his trial was unconstitutional and upheld the conviction and sentence. After denials of a writ of certiorari and of habeas corpus, petitioner filed a petition for habeas corpus in Federal District Court raising the same objections to the use of psychiatric testimony. Although the District Court rejected his claims and denied the writ, it did issue a certificate of probable cause. The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals denied a second writ of habeas corpus and denied a stay of execution. The Court of Appeals also denied a stay of execution.\n\nThe Supreme Court granted certiorari.\n\nThe Supreme Court upheld the denial of a stay of execution by the Court of Appeals, saying that the Court of Appeals followed the procedural guidelines for handling such applications for stays of execution on habeas corpus appeals pursuant to a certificate of probable cause. The Court also upheld the appellate court's finding on the merits of the case, reasoning that that clinical prediction testimony was not in every case wrong and could be refuted by opposing experts, trusting the adversarial system to determine the accuracy of such statements.\nThe Court's decision in this death penalty case was very important in influencing the legal opinion regarding psychiatric predictions of dangerousness, a position with which the American Psychiatric Association and other medical ethicists disagree, leading some experts to conclude that a psychiatrist making such statements verges on the brink of being a quack. Nevertheless, courts have been willing to accept such testimony despite the lack of empirical evidence that these predictions of future dangerousness are accurate.\n\nHowever, forensic experts state that psychiatric testimony on ultimate questions at law is unreliable due to the inherent limitations of current psychiatric clinical and experimental knowledge and practice. Dr. James P. Grigson, one of the psychiatrists that testified in this case, was expelled from the American Psychiatric Association and the Texas Association of Psychiatric Physicians (TAPP) for making statements in testimony on defendants he had not examined. The TAPP said his expulsion was due not only to his replies to hypothetical questions but also for predicting dangerousness with 100% certainty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42452243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42452243", "title": "Beit Memorial Fellowships for Medical Research", "text": "Beit Memorial Fellowships for Medical Research\n\nBeit Memorial Fellows have been awarded a number of prestigious prizes with seven Nobel Prizes including two for Frederick Sanger (1944) and the 2012 prize for medicine for John Gurdon. Nobel laureates who have held Beit fellowships are Alexander R. Todd (chemistry, 1957), Fred Sanger (chemistry, 1958 and 1980), Macfarlane Burnet (physiology or medicine, 1960), Bernard Katz (physiology or medicine, 1970) and Tim Hunt (physiology or medicine, 2001). The first female member of the Royal Society in 1945 was Marjory Stephenson (1914 Beit fellowship) an early recipient of the fellowship.\n\nThe Beit Memorial Medical Fellowships were replaced by the prestigious Wellcome-Beit Prize Fellowships in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "23589722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23589722", "title": "Breastfeeding promotion", "text": "Breastfeeding promotion\n\nBreastfeeding promotion refers to coordinated activities and policies to promote health among women, newborns and infants through breastfeeding.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) recommends infants should be exclusively breastfed for the first six months of life to achieve optimal health and development, followed by complementary foods while continuing breastfeeding for up to two years or beyond. However, currently fewer than 40% of infants under six months of age are exclusively breastfed worldwide.\n\nPublic health awareness events such as World Breastfeeding Week, as well as training of health professionals and planning, aim to increase this number.\n\nBreastfeeding promotion is a movement that came about in the twentieth century in response to high rates of bottle-feeding among mothers, and in recognition of the many health benefits to both mothers and children that breastfeeding offers. While infant formula had been introduced in developed countries in the 1920s as a healthy way to feed one's children, the emergence of research on health benefits of breastfeeding precipitated the beginning of the breastfeeding promotion movement in the United States. In the 1950s, La Leche League meetings began. The United States began incorporating benefits specific to breastfeeding promotion into its Women, Infants, and Children program in 1972. In 1989, WIC state agencies began being required to spend funds targeted at breastfeeding support and promotion, including the provision of education materials in different languages and the purchase of breast pumps and other supplies. In 1998, WIC state agencies were authorized to use funds earmarked for food to purchase breast pumps.\n\nEach year, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention release a Breastfeeding Report Card, detailing breastfeeding rates and promotion programs nationally and in all fifty states. In 2013, 76.5% of US women had ever breastfed their children; 16.4% exclusively breastfed up to six months of age. The Healthy People 2020 target for exclusive breastfeeding at six months is 25.5%. The proportion of infants who were breastfed exclusively or non-exclusively at six months was 35% in 2000 and increased to 49% by 2010.\n\nEffective support techniques for breastfeeding include support given by people with specialized training during and after pregnancy, regular scheduled visits, and support that is directed towards specific groups of people. Support has been shown to be effective when offered by both professional or peers, or a combination. Providing face-to-face support has been shown to be more likely to be successful for women who are breastfeeding exclusively. \n\nThe discussion of breastfeeding during early prenatal care can positively effect a woman's likelihood to breastfeed her child. During regular checkups, a woman's physician, midwife or other healthcare provider can initiate a conversation about the benefits of breastfeeding, which can influence a woman to breastfeed her child for a longer period of time than she might have otherwise. In addition, the involvement of lactation consultants in the prenatal visits of low-income women increases the likelihood that they will breastfeed.\n\nPeer support techniques can be used before, during, and after pregnancy to encourage exclusive breastfeeding, particularly among groups with low breastfeeding rates. Breastfeeding peer counselors, who are ideally women who have breastfed who can provide information, support, and troubleshooting to mothers, have had a positive effect on the breastfeeding rate in American Indian populations. Peer counseling has also been effective at increasing breastfeeding initiation rates and breastfeeding rates up to three months after birth in Hispanic populations in the United States. In addition, peer counseling can be effective in encouraging not only exclusive breastfeeding, but also breastfeeding rates in combination with formula, or \"any breastfeeding\".\n\nPeer counseling has had a strong effect on breastfeeding initiation and duration in developing countries such as Bangladesh and in areas where home births are more prevalent than hospital births. When combined with nutrition support, particularly the WIC program in the United States, the presence of peer counselors can have a significant effect on incidence of breastfeeding among low-income women.\n\nSupport during and immediately after childbirth can also help women initiate and continue breastfeeding while working through common concerns related to breastfeeding. This support can be non-medical, as doula care is. Culturally sensitive care (for example, care from a peer of a similar ethnic background) may be most effective at encouraging high-risk women to breastfeed.\n\nLactation consultants are health care professionals whose primary goal is to promote breastfeeding and assist mothers with breastfeeding on an individualized or group basis. They work in a variety of health care settings, including hospitals, private doctor's offices, and public health clinics. Lactation consultants are board-certified by the International Board of Lactation Consultant Examiners. The majority of lactation consultants hold a certification in another healthcare profession, often as a nurse, midwife, dietician or physician. However, there is no specific post-secondary education required to become a lactation consultant.\n\nIn low-income contexts, interventions by breastfeeding consultants can be effective in promoting breastfeeding among high-risk populations. In one study, while exclusive breastfeeding rates were low in both control and intervention groups, black and Latina low-income women who had prenatal and postnatal support from a lactation consultant were more likely to breastfeed at 20 weeks than women who had not accessed this support.<ref name=\"Bonuck/Trombley 2005\"></ref> In general, lactation consultants give a greater proportion of positive feedback to mothers regarding breastfeeding than either physicians or nurses do; the amount of positive advice that a first-time mother receives regarding breastfeeding from any health care provider can influence her likelihood to continue breastfeeding for a longer period of time.\n\nSocial marketing has been shown to influence women's decision to breastfeed their children. One study found that in years when Parents magazine ran formula advertisements at a higher frequency, the proportion of women who breastfed often decreased in the following year. Conversely, women who are exposed to marketing that promotes breastfeeding are likely to breastfeed at higher rates.\n\nThe growth of the Internet's influence has also influenced women's choices in infant feeding. The Internet has served as both a vector for formula advertisement and a means by which women can connect with other mothers to gain support and share experiences from breastfeeding. In addition, social media is a category of advertising that did not exist when the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes was published; thus, while some advertising practices undertaken by formula companies on the Internet violated the Code, they did so in ways that could not have been anticipated.\n\nOne social medium used to promote breastfeeding is video. These videos are often independently filmed and produced by lactation consultants who seek a new way to reach clients. While the efficacy of these videos has not been formally studied, they are a relatively new medium of conveying messages about breastfeeding to women.\n\nBreastfeeding initiation and duration varies significantly by race and ethnicity. The National Immunization Survey in the United States found that while 73.4% of all women in the United States initiated breastfeeding upon the birth of their child, only 54.4% of black, non-Hispanic women and 69.8% of American Indian and Alaska Native women did. White non-Hispanic women initiated breastfeeding 74.3% of the time and Hispanic women had an initiation rate of 80.4%. However, one study found that in a low-income environment, foreign-born black women had a similar breastfeeding rate to Hispanic women; both of these rates were higher than that of non-Hispanic white women. In addition, native-born black women had a somewhat higher rate of breastfeeding than white women.\n\nImmigrant status in the United States is a predictor for breastfeeding adherence. In particular, the Hispanic paradox plays a role in the high breastfeeding rates observed among Hispanic/Latina women in the United States. Breastfeeding initiation rates among this population are higher for less acculturated immigrants; Hispanic women who have been in the United States for longer are less likely to breastfeed. This disparity does not depend on age, income level, or education level; more acculturated Hispanics are likely to cite the same reasons for bottle-feeding as native-born white women do. In many cases, the connection that Hispanic women feel to their culture and its values can strongly influence their decision regarding breastfeeding.\n\nAccess to prenatal care, socioeconomic status, cultural influence, and postpartum breastfeeding support all influence the differing rates of breastfeeding in different ethnic groups. In the United States, black women are more likely than white women to report that they \"prefer bottle-feeding\" to breastfeeding, and they are also more likely to be low-income and unmarried and to have lower levels of education. The decision to bottle-feed rather than breastfeed is of similar importance to low birth weight in predicting infant mortality, particularly in regards to the black-white infant mortality gap. Thus, breastfeeding promotion initiatives focused on black women should emphasize education and encourage black women to prefer breastfeeding to bottle-feeding.\n\nExperts attribute high mortality rates and under nutrition amongst infants to the decreasing number of woman who breastfeed. This delay in breastfeeding initiation increases the risk of neonatal mortality. Experts suggest breastfeeding within the first day of birth until the infant is 6-months old. Promotion of breastfeeding during this period could potentially reduce the mortality rates by 16% if infant was breast fed since day one and 22% if the infant was breastfed within the first hour. Rates of breastfeeding initiation vary with ethnicity and socioeconomic situations. Studies suggest that college educated women over their 30 are more likely to initiate breastfeeding in comparison to other women who have different levels of educational attainment.\nEthnicity, age, education, employment, marital status, and location are reported factors of delayed breastfeeding and infant under nutrition. Low- income mothers are specifically at risk for under nutrition and high mortality rates amongst their infants because they replace breast milk with formula. They do so because they lack a supportive environment, embarrassment of nursing, or the need to return to school or work. About 16.5% of low-income mothers breastfed for the recommended time. Studies suggest that scarce financial and social resources are consistent with the high mortality rates amongst the infants of low-income mothers.\n\nAn example of neonatal and infant mortality that is directly correlated with delayed initiation of breastfeeding is seen is sub-Saharan, Africa. Mortality rates are highest in this region of the world and have had the slowest progress to achieving reductions to the overall child mortality. Even if low-income mothers exclusively breast fed their infants for the 6 month – 1-year period, their infant is still at risk because most women commonly delay first day initiation of breast-feeding. Most women aren’t aware that absence in breast milk put their infant at risk for serious health problems in the future. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) implements programs that promote and support breastfeeding and the benefits for infants and children. They compile many types of data so states can monitor progress and to educate expecting parents on the subject . But for other countries these programs aren’t so common.\n\nSocioeconomic status of mothers likely has a larger influence on breastfeeding adherence than race or ethnicity, as many women who are members of groups with low breastfeeding rates also have a low socioeconomic status. Among women born in the United States, women who are wealthier are more likely to breastfeed. In addition, employment can influence the decision to breastfeed. When either parent was unemployed or held a lower-status occupation (such as labor or sales), their children were more likely to never have been breastfed. In addition, women with public insurance or with no health insurance are more likely to never have breastfed their children, as are women who receive WIC.\n\nThe time commitment of exclusive breastfeeding is also an economic constraint. The time required per week to breastfeed rather than bottle-feed or feed solids to children can be a significant burden for women without other childcare or who need to spend this time doing paid work. However, some evidence suggests that the long-term benefits of exclusive breastfeeding outweigh the short-term costs. In the United States, workplace policy surrounding breastfeeding and parental leave often does not reflect these benefits. In addition, women are often unable to risk the loss of their jobs or loss of income due to breastfeeding adherence, so bottle-feeding is the best solution for the short-term.\n\nIn recent times adolescent mothers have become a target population for breastfeeding education. In industrialized regions of the world including Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia and the United States, single, young mothers, under age 20, are less likely to initiate breastfeeding and more likely to have lower rates of breastfeeding duration. Studies have found that social barriers to continuing breastfeeding are insufficiently recognized and addressed by healthcare professionals. Studies suggest that one of the greatest barriers to improving breastfeeding rates among adolescent mothers are the expectations made by health care providers who assume young mother are too immature to breastfeed successfully. Therefore, these young mothers receive even less education and support than adult mothers even though they need it most. Participants of the various studies reported that medical staff directed them towards the hospital's vast supply of formula milk instead of receiving lactation consultations even when they wished to breastfeed. \nAdolescent mothers have particular needs due to levels of education, employment, exposure (or lack thereof) to breastfeeding, self-esteem, support from others, and of cognitive and psychological immaturity. These factors contribute to a young mother's likelihood to experience distress during their breastfeeding experiences and may even lead first time adolescent mothers to have different concerns and anxieties regarding breastfeeding from those of adult first time mothers.\n\nStudies suggest that even when young mothers are informed about the health benefits of breastfeeding other social norms take precedence. The potential of social embarrassment can be present in the minds of expecting adolescent mothers and may be a major factor that influences their choice of feeding method. Adolescent mothers have also described conflicts between their wish to resume activities outside of the home in the post-natal period and the baby's need to be fed. Public breastfeeding was seen as risking social disapproval, thus, discouraged breastfeeding. Some of the adolescent participants of some studies described how their fears become a reality when they were asked to stop breastfeeding in public areas.\n\nThe breastfeeding promotion and support of adolescent mothers must take into account the context of the individual and their cultural norms. Few teenagers can withstand the cultural pressure which categorizes bottle feeding as a norm. Therefore, new teenage mothers need more concerted prenatal anticipatory guidance, specialized lactation education and an increase of face-to-face postpartum support. To succeed with the task at hand, inpatient nursing care need to be tailor to the unique needs of this population. Positive perception of inpatient postpartum nursing care has been found to be an important influence in a young mother's success with breastfeeding. In a study conducted in the United States, young mothers reported positive postpartum experiences, especially in respect to breastfeeding initiation and mother-infant bonding, when their nursing care was targeted for adolescent mothers. The mothers reported that they felt better cared for and more motivated to initiate and sustain breastfeeding when nurses were friendly, patient, respectful and understanding of their individual needs. Maternal self-confidence is a contributing factor that influences positive breastfeeding outcomes especially among adolescent mothers. Empowerment, compassion, understanding and patience are key when caring for young moms.\n\nSupport outside of clinical settings is also important. Changes to policies have been introduced in the California (U.S.) legislature that identify schools as key institution of support for adolescent mothers. In 2015, State Assembly Member Cristina Garcia from Los Angeles, introduced an amendment which required an employer to provide break time to accommodate employees to express breast milk for the employee's infant child, breast-feed an infant child or address other needs related to breast-feeding. This amendment also requires public schools to provide similar accommodations to lactating students. These accommodations include but are not limited to access to a private or secure room, other than a restroom, permission to bring into a school campus any equipment used to express breast milk, access to a power source for said equipment, and access to store expressed breast milk. The bill does not mandate the construction of new space to make these accommodations possible. The policy hopes to validate young mothers’ wishes to continue breastfeeding their infant children without shame.\n\nOn a global scale, recommendations have been made to educate school age children using curriculum that promotes healthy nutrition which includes breastfeeding. The World Health Organization's Global Strategy for Infant and Young Child Feeding recommend education authorities help form positive attitudes through the promotion of evidence-based science regarding the benefits of breastfeeding and other nutrition programs.\n\nLa Leche League International was founded in 1956 after breastfeeding rates in the United States dropped to about 20%. Today, La Leche League has groups in all 50 states and many countries worldwide. Its goals include promoting understanding of breastfeeding as a part of child development and providing support and education for breastfeeding mothers. La Leche League utilizes peer support groups in breastfeeding promotion in addition to supporting World Breastfeeding Week and other breastfeeding promotion initiatives. All La Leche League support group leaders have been specially trained and accredited in breastfeeding support. La Leche League also operates an online help form, online discussion forums, and podcasts to enable remote access to breastfeeding support resources.\n\nThe Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative (BFHI) is an initiative of the World Health Organization and UNICEF that seeks to encourage initiation of breastfeeding among mothers who give birth to their children in hospitals. Facilities that achieve its \"Ten Steps to Successful Breastfeeding\" and implement the International code of Marketing Breast-milk Substitutes can be recognized as a Baby-Friendly facility by the BFHI. In the United States, accreditation by the BFHI allows facilities to approach the Healthy People 2020 breastfeeding initiation goals. Worldwide, facilities that fulfill the requirements of the BFHI have been able to greatly increase their breastfeeding initiation rates among patients. The guidelines of the BFHI have also been effective in increasing breastfeeding initiation rates among populations that typically have lower incidences of breastfeeding, such as black women. In one study, the rate of infants exclusively breastfeeding more than quintupled over a four-year period upon the implementation of the BFHI.\n\nWorld Breastfeeding Week is an international initiative of the World Alliance for Breastfeeding Action that seeks to promote exclusive breastfeeding. Since 1992, it has been held each year from August 1 through August 7. In 2013, the theme of World Breastfeeding Week was \"Breastfeeding Support: Close to Mothers\"; past themes include early initiation of breastfeeding, the role of communication in breastfeeding, and breastfeeding policy. World Breastfeeding Week provides informational materials about breastfeeding to healthcare providers and breastfeeding specialists via download or purchase. In addition, groups or individuals worldwide are able to \"pledge\" that they will undergo promotion activities related to World Breastfeeding Week in order to show their support for the initiative.\n\nIn addition to overseeing the Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative, the WHO and UNICEF have promoted breastfeeding on an international level. In 1990, the Innocenti Declaration On the Protection, Promotion, and Support of Breastfeeding was published after a joint meeting of WHO and UNICEF policymakers. The Innocenti Declaration set forth goals of exclusive breastfeeding up to 4–6 months, helping women be confident in their ability to breastfeed, and national policies regarding breastfeeding to be determined by individual countries, among other benchmarks. In addition, UNICEF has published \"Ten Steps to Successful Breastfeeding\" which has been implemented in the Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative.\n\nThe WHO and UNICEF also undertake independent research and reviews of recent research on breastfeeding in order to inform their future recommendations. UNICEF, alongside its recommendations for nutrition for children and adults, advocates exclusive breastfeeding up to six months of age and complementary feeding up to two years of age for young children. With these guidelines in mind, UNICEF believes that with optimal breastfeeding practices, up to 1.4 million deaths of children under 5 in the developing world can be prevented.\n\nThe International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes was adopted in May 1981 by the Health Assembly of WHO and UNICEF. It sets forth standards for health care systems, health care workers, and formula distributors regarding the promotion of formula in comparison to breastfeeding. It also delineates the responsibilities of formula manufacturers to monitor the safety of breast-milk substitutes and governments to monitor the implementation of policies that promote breastfeeding. Although the Code has been successful in some settings, it has faced some opposition and non-compliance from the pharmaceutical industry. This has caused hospitals in different regions of the world to face unsolicited advertising from breast-milk substitute manufacturers, which inhibits their ability to make unbiased, evidence-based recommendations to patients.\n\nIn Uganda, campaigns to promote breastfeeding have been conducted in the mass media, including public service announcements via radio, television, posters, newspapers and magazines, leading to improved knowledge of the benefits of breastfeeding for infants and mothers among individuals and communities.\n\nIn Bangladesh, prelacteal feeding is a common custom; this is the practice of feeding other foods to infants before breast milk during the first three days of life. A study found that in a region of rural Bangladesh, 89.3% of infants were fed prelacteally, and only 18.8% of these infants were exclusively breastfed between three days and three months postpartum. 70.6% of infants who were not fed prelacteally were exclusively breastfed up to three months. Peer counseling and support programs have been shown to have a positive effect on exclusive breastfeeding rates in rural Bangladesh.\n\nAustralia implemented its first national breastfeeding policy in 2010, aimed at protecting, promoting, supporting and monitoring breastfeeding through each level of government and in non-government organisation.\n\nIn Russia, the Association of Natural Feeding Consultants (AKEV) promotes breastfeeding. AKEV provides mother-to-mother support, educates breastfeeding consultants as well as participates in public outreach about breastfeeding importance. AKEV is a regional group of the International Baby Food Action Network in Russia.\n\nIn Canada, the provinces of Quebec and New Brunswick have mandated the implementation of the Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative, known as the Baby-Friendly Initiative (BFI) in Canada, which is designed to support best practices in hospitals and communities to ensure informed feeding decisions and enable families to sustain breastfeeding. Other provinces and territories are implementing strategies around the BFI at regional and local levels. The Canadian adaptation of the Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative is designed to promote breastfeeding through a variety of facilities and settings; thus, the word \"Hospital\" is omitted from its title.\n\nThe Cuban constitution contains a provision that allows one hour per day to breastfeed for women who return to their jobs after giving birth. Cuba also operates regional maternity homes for women who are undergoing high-risk pregnancies; after giving birth, 80% of women in these facilities will breastfeed.\n\nIn the United States, breastfeeding promotion often relates to activities required to be carried out by state and local agencies using federal funds \nprovided for nutrition education and administrative services under the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC program). States are required to use a portion of funds they receive to promote breastfeeding by postpartum mothers participating in the program.\n\nIt has been argued that, in hindsight, the campaign for the universal promotion of breastfeeding prior to the acknowledgement of HIV contraction via mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) fails to consider affected mothers in developing countries who have limited or no access to procedures that would minify the chance of spreading the virus to their young ones. Initiatives for a decreased percentage of infants contracting HIV include administering Antiretroviral therapy (ART) to their mothers and providing milk formula in hand with proper water sterilization techniques to prevent disease from contamination. The majority of opposition comes from local and global policy makers who argue about the non-feasibility of these projects. However others argue that there is limited say of the women directly affected, resulting in further segregation of women in developing nations from preventive aid and health care systems.\n\nIn many hospitals, women who are being discharged after giving birth are given discharge packs branded by a formula company that include formula samples. Many breastfeeding experts argue that these commercial discharge packs decrease the likelihood that a woman will breastfeed and, if she does breastfeed, the length of time she will do so. Studies have found that marketing of infant formula in hospitals makes it likelier that a woman will breastfeed for a shorter amount of time due to the perceived convenience of bottle-feeding. Formula companies often offer these discharge packs, as well as a general supply of formula, to hospitals at no cost, which can place some facilities at an economic disadvantage if they choose to give up these benefits. However, not accepting free formula is one of the criteria that determine whether a facility can be certified as Baby-Friendly; thus, the economic burden of giving up access to formula for free can be a significant barrier for disadvantaged facilities that wish to achieve Baby-Friendly status.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56086136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56086136", "title": "Cannabis in Seychelles", "text": "Cannabis in Seychelles\n\nCannabis in Seychelles is illegal. A 2003 report indicates that cannabis and alcohol are the only drugs commonly found in the nation.\n\nSeychelles' laws banning cannabis were copied verbatim from the 1882 legislation in Mauritius. This caused some confusion as Mauritius had re-opened the cannabis trade in 1883, then closed it again in 1887, leaving some confusion as to which laws continued to apply to Seychelles.\n"}
{"id": "47961821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47961821", "title": "Cannabis in the United States Virgin Islands", "text": "Cannabis in the United States Virgin Islands\n\nIn the United States Virgin Islands, marijuana (cannabis) is illegal, but possession of under one ounce is decriminalized. In a 2014 referendum, USVI voters expressed support for the Legislature of the Virgin Islands taking up the question of legalizing medical cannabis.\n\nIn December 2014, USVI's unicameral Legislature voted 14–0 to override Governor John P. DeJongh's line-item veto of cannabis decriminalization from the territory's 2015 budget. Penalties for possession of an ounce of cannabis or less were reduced from a year in jail and $5,000 fine to a civil offense punishable by a fine of $100-$200. Governor DeJohng had vetoed the measure in October, saying the bill would complicate the government's ability to deal with cannabis regarding workplace safety rules and pre-trial release and bail.\n\nIn 2014 a non-binding referendum was held in USVI, asking voters whether the Legislature should explore the issue of legalizing medical cannabis. In August the USVI Senate approved the addition of that referendum to the 2014 election, 12–2. In November, the results were announced as coming in favor consideration of medical cannabis, 56%–43% (10,503–8,074). It followed a 2012 referendum that approved the legalisation of industrial hemp.\n\nThe July 2003 \"Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands Drug Threat Assessment\" by the National Drug Intelligence Center describes the illicit economy around cannabis in the USVI:\nMost marijuana available in the USVI arrives from southern island locations such as St. Lucia and St. Vincent and the Grenadines; however, its origin is unknown. ... Cannabis produced locally in the USVI usually is cultivated outdoors; however, poor terrain and arid climate across the USVI produce a low-quality product. ... Marijuana primarily is transported to the USVI in small maritime vessels. ... In the USVI local criminal groups and independent dealers are the primary wholesale and retail distributors of marijuana. ... Treatment data for the USVI are unavailable; however, USVI law enforcement officials indicate that marijuana abuse is widespread.\n\nTypically, the marijuana available in the USVI is transported from islands in the Caribbean; the source of the marijuana is not known... The DEA Caribbean Division reported the following marijuana seizures in the USVI: 0.3 kilograms in FY2000; 28.6 kilograms in FY2001, and 465.5 kilograms in FY2002. ... In St. Thomas and St. John, marijuana sold for approximately $1,300 per kilogram, $600 per pound, $100 per ounce, and $10 per bag in the second quarter of FY2002.\n\nThe percentage of drug-related federal sentences that were marijuana-related in Puerto Rico and the USVI in FY2001 was significantly lower than the national percentage. According to USSC data, 3.0 percent of drug-related federal sentences in Puerto Rico and 6.7 percent of drug-related federal sentences in the USVI were marijuana-related compared with 32.8 percent nationally.\n\nThe level of violence directly attributed to marijuana distribution in Puerto Rico and the USVI is low. However, distributors who sell marijuana often distribute other drugs, including cocaine and heroin, and commit violent crimes to protect their territory.\n\nCannabis also is cultivated--primarily outdoors--in the USVI; however, poor terrain and arid climate across the USVI produce a low quality product. Nearly all the cannabis cultivated is intended for local distribution. Cultivation sites most commonly are located in rural areas across the islands and typically contain 100 to 200 cannabis plants. In August 2002 federal and local law enforcement authorities seized approximately 1,100 cannabis plants in a series of raids in St. Croix. Law enforcement officials located the plants using helicopters. The plants were scattered in plots throughout the western half of the island. No arrests were made.\n\nMost of the marijuana available in the USVI is transported by small maritime vessels from southern island locations including St. Lucia or St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Neither the principal transporters nor the origin of marijuana arriving in the USVI from these locations is known.\n\nIn the USVI local criminal groups and independent dealers are the primary wholesale- and retail-level distributors of marijuana. ... In the USVI marijuana is sold via hand-to-hand transactions on city streets and in residences, bars, and clubs.\n"}
{"id": "213008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213008", "title": "Carrion", "text": "Carrion\n\nCarrion (from Latin \"caro\", meaning \"meat\") is the decaying flesh of a dead animal.\n\nCarrion is an important food source for large carnivores and omnivores in most ecosystems. Examples of carrion-eaters (or scavengers) include vultures, hawks, eagles, hyenas, Virginia opossum, Tasmanian devils, coyotes and Komodo dragons. Many invertebrates such as the carrion and burying beetles, as well as maggots of calliphorid flies and flesh-flies also eat carrion, playing an important role in recycling nitrogen and carbon in animal remains.\n\nCarrion begins to decay the moment of the animal's death, and it will increasingly attract insects and breed bacteria. Not long after the animal has died, its body will begin to exude a foul odor caused by the presence of bacteria and the emission of cadaverine and putrescine.\n\nSome plants and fungi smell like decomposing carrion and attract insects that aid in reproduction. Plants that exhibit this behavior are known as carrion flowers. Stinkhorn mushrooms are examples of fungi with this characteristic.\n\nSometimes carrion is used to describe an infected carcass that is diseased and should not be touched. An example of carrion being used to describe dead and rotting bodies in literature may be found in William Shakespeare's play \"Julius Caesar\" (III.i):\n\n<poem>Cry 'Havoc,' and let slip the dogs of war;\nThat this foul deed shall smell above the earth\nWith carrion men, groaning for burial.</poem>\n\nAnother example can be found in Daniel Defoe's \"Robinson Crusoe\" when the title character kills an unknown bird for food but finds \"its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing\".\n\nThe thirty-count laws of Ulla (Talmudist) include the prohibition of humans consuming carrion. This count is in addition to the standard seven law count and has been recently published from the Judeo-Arabic writing of Shmuel ben Hophni Gaon after having been lost for centuries.\n"}
{"id": "47362298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47362298", "title": "Chlamydia research", "text": "Chlamydia research\n\nChlamydia research is the systematic study of the organisms in the taxonomic group of bacteria Chlamydiae, the diagnostic procedures to treat infections, the disease chlamydia, infections caused by the organisms, the epidemiology of infection and the development of vaccines. The process of research can include the participation of many researchers who work in collaboration from separate organizations, governmental entities and universities.\n\nThe Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) offers funding to research the biology, physiology, epidemiology, vaccine development, publish systematic reviews of Chlamydia species. Other funding sources include the National Chlamydia Coalition.\n\nNIAID conducts research at the Rocky Mountain Laboratories in Hamilton, Montana, This facility is developing a vaccine to prevent Chlamydia trachomatis infection. The vaccine being tested is a single-component vaccine that is designed to protect against all 15 chlamydia varieties. Studies have already shown that the vaccine can prevent laboratory cells from becoming infected.\n\nAnother prevention strategy being pursued is the development of topical microbicides (preparations that can be inserted into the vagina to prevent infection) that are effective and easy for women to use.\n\nStudies continue to determine organism's genetic makeup. NIAID-supported scientists determined the complete genome (genetic blueprint) for C. trachomatis.\n\nThis instition continues its research into Chlamydia infection. The Institute has published over 140 studies related to Chlamydia.\n\nThere are research projects in several areas, including: development of a human vaccine for chlamydial sexually transmitted disease understanding basic mechanisms of regulation, including the importance of chlamydial proteases. Chlamydia infections in wildlife are part of the research into Chlamydia particularly koalas genomics and gene regulation studies in Chlamydia\n\nA sample list of primary publications.\n\nVaccine development continues in many independent areas and institutions.\n\nVaccine research is ongoing in independent and institutional settings.\n\nA clinical study involves research using human volunteers (also called participants) that is intended to add to medical knowledge. There are two main types of clinical studies: clinical trials (also called interventional studies) and observational studies. ClinicalTrials.gov includes both interventional and observational studies.https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/about-studies/learn\n\nClinical trials are used by researchers investigating the efficacy of interventions or protocol in the epidemiology, detection, prevention and treatment of Chlamydia infections. Interventions are the use of medical products, medication. devices; procedures or changes in the participants' behavior. The effects on the participants are measured and compared to previous trials, placebo or a new medical approach, or to no intervention. The National Institutes of Health support on-going research in the study of Chlamydia infection. At least 113 studies have been initiated as of 2015. One example was the clinical trial of eye prophylaxis in newborns in the prevention of neonatal conjunctivitis caused by Chlamydia trachomatis\n\nResearch related to Chlamydia can take the form of an observational study. This type of study assesses outcomes in groups of participants according to a research plan or protocol. The volunteers in the study may receive interventions such as medical products, medications, devices, or procedures as part of their routine medical care. The volunteers in this type of study are not assigned to specific interventions as in a clinical trial. An example of an oberservational study regarding Chlamydia infection was \"Non-Invasive Sexually Transmitted Disease (STD) Testing in Women Seeking Emergency Contraception or Urine Pregnancy Testing: Meeting the Needs of an At-Risk Population\" in 2010. Observational studies employ the use of randomised control studies.\n\nA case study that researches the prevalence and prevention of Chlamydia can be many things. It often entails personal contact, and a detailed history of the participants along with an extensive physical examination. Included in case studies of Chlamydia infection and the case results include its related contextual conditions. Chlamydia case studies also can be produced by following a formal research method. These case studies are likely to appear in formal research venues, such as journals and professional conferences. ork, and administrative science.\n\nIn doing case study research, the \"case\" being studied may be an individual, organization, event, or action, existing in a specific time and place. For instance, clinical science has produced both well-known case studies of individuals and also case studies of clinical practices.\n\nEvidence-based medicine Chlamydia studies optimizes decision-making by employing the use of information based upon well-designed research. This approach to the study of Chlamydia requires that only research conducted coming from meta-analyses, systematic reviews, and randomized controlled trials) can yield widely applied recommendations.\n\nSome examples of Evidenced-based research on Chlamydia include:\n\nJournal Pathog. 2014;2014:183167. doi: 10.1155/2014/183167. Epub 2014 Dec 31.\nNelson HD, Zakher B, Cantor A, Deagas M, Pappas M.Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US); 2014 Sep.\n"}
{"id": "28847808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28847808", "title": "Cigar boom", "text": "Cigar boom\n\nThe Cigar Boom is the name given to the resurgence of cigar consumption in the United States during the mid-1990s. Beginning in 1992, imports and sales of premium cigars began to rise dramatically and manufacturers struggled to keep up with demand, leading to industry-wide shortages of raw materials and finished products. The period was marked and the trend accelerated with the 1992 establishment of \"Cigar Aficionado\" magazine.\n\nBy 1997, production caught up with demand and the downward side of the cycle of boom and bust began to make itself felt, leading to a shakeout of many of the smaller and weaker upstart manufacturers of boutique premium cigars. A slow resurgence of the industry began in 2001, until by 2011 total cigar imports began again to approach the peak years of the boom.\n\nThroughout the decade of the 1980s, imports of handmade cigars into the United States remained stagnant at about 100 million cigars per year. The lengthy plateau in consumer demand allowed tobacco farmers and brokers and cigar manufacturers to plan for future production. Since cigar tobacco requires an extensive preparation process, including stripping, sorting, aging, and fermentation, dramatic changes in the level of output required two or three years of advance time.\n\nStable consumer demand allowed companies to safely plan for the needs of the marketplace but the nature of the industry did not allow for rapid expansion of production. Cigar industry veteran Lew Rothman later recalled that\n\"Because there was only a finite number of potential customers and a fairly predictable demand for premium cigars, the quantity of tobacco planted to supply that demand, and the price for those wrappers, binders, and filler leaves, remained very constant throughout the 1980s and into the '90s. Basically, there were no new farmers, brokers, or factories for the product, and it was 'the same old, same old' for over a decade.\" \n\nIn the 4th Quarter of 1992, the long-term decline in the importation of cigars began to show signs of being reversed, as quantities increased by 4% over previous year totals.\n\nThe end of 1992 also saw the establishment of a new publication, credited by some with spurring the cigar boom of the 1990s. \"Cigar Aficionado\" magazine, a glossy monthly publication, helped to legitimize the idea that cigars were not a vile relic of a by-gone century and helped to foster an epicurean attitude towards hand-crafted tobacco products. Over the years a number of important celebrities revealed themselves to be cigar connoisseurs in its pages, including television's William Shatner and radio's Rush Limbaugh.\n\nThe year 1993 saw the first significant increase in cigar imports to the United States in more than a decade, with a total of 117.8 million cigars brought into the country, an increase of about 10 percent over the previous year's totals.\n\nThe next year saw a further 12 percent gain in the number of imported cigars into the American market, to 132.4 million pieces. This was followed by an astounding 33 percent gain in 1995, with 176.3 million cigars imported into the country in that year. This trend further accelerated during the first part of 1996, with yet another 36 percent gain posted in the first quarter of that year. By the time 1996 came to a close, some 293 million premium cigars had been imported into the United States — an astonishing 66% gain over 1995's record imports.\n\nMany upstart companies began in the 1990s in an attempt to meet blossoming demand, with long-term survivors including Tabacalera Perdomo (established 1992), Oliva Cigar Co. (established 1995), and Rocky Patel (established mid-1990s). Many other upstart companies began manufacturing cigars in this period, meeting a change in consumer purchasing patterns that favored purchasing single cigars produced by a broad range of manufacturers rather than box quantities from established makers.\n\nThis period also saw the growth of parallel grass roots industries, such as independent record labels, premium coffee houses powered by the rapid expansion of Starbucks, and microbreweries which produced special varieties of beer. The rapid expansion of demand for and manufacture of hand-crafted cigars may be seen as part and parcel of this broad consumer trend which sought specialized craft products over generic mass-produced goods.\n\nDue to the nearly 2 year turnaround between tobacco seed and the finished product, production was for a time unable to keep up with the new fad-like demand for premium cigars, resulting in widespread backorders and rising prices. By 1995, the number of backordered cigars to American tobacconists hit the 25 million mark. Even as imports soared, this supply situation worsened, until nearly 50 million cigars were on backorder, unable to be shipped due to insufficient wholesale inventory, in 1996. For nearly 6 weeks in the summer of 1996, General Cigar Company found itself sold out of its Macanudo cigar, unable to ship even a single box of what was then the best-selling premium cigar in America.\n\nLew Rothman later remembered the extraordinary situation in these years:\n\"Insanity reigned. * * *\n\"Tobacco is harvested in six to seven primings, as the leaves on a plant mature from bottom to top. Each priming is normally three leaves. In past years and under normal circumstances, what is left is the corona, or top, of the plant. These are very small leaves heavily laden with nicotine. The corona was often sold to chewing tobacco companies who flavored this nicotine-laden tobacco and then sold it under names like Mail Pouch, Red Man, and others... If the corona remained unsold, then it and the stalk would be plowed under to provide soil-enriching nitrogen for next year's crop.\n\"During the Cigar Boom years, this practice all but disappeared! Why? Because during the priming cycle the tobacco stalks would have a secondary growth of tiny leaves much like the sucker branches you might see on a tree limb. The shortages of tobacco were so ferocious that everyone began harvesting these tiny second-growth leaves, called \"capadura,\" to use as filler tobaccos, and brokers started to sell capadura, the same stuff that used to get plowed under. The point being that every single conceivable scrap of anything that would pass for cigar leaf was being courted by manufacturers large and small, new and old, to meet the demand for cigars in the first half of the 1990s.\"\n\nAs backstocks of aged tobacco vanished and inferior sources were exploited, quality suffered. The April 1997 issue of \"Cigar Insider\" newsletter rated 50 offerings and scored none higher than 90 points for the first time in the publication's 16-month history. Newcomers to the industry, intent on making quick cash from the cigar fad, frequently produced an inferior product.\n\nThe cigar boom is recognized to have ended in 1997, when the expanded supply of handmade cigars caught up with backorders and soon far outstripped demand, leaving millions of unsold cigars in wholesale inventory. Dedicated cigar smokers wearied of the frequently poor quality of new makers and returned to established names of the industry, while many newcomers moved on to new hobbies.\n\nAs demand for new brands plummeted, newly established makers faced unparalleled cash-flow problems and began to dump their unsold inventories. Discount cigar retailers suddenly found themselves awash in available product, with cigars sometimes being sold in 1998 for less than the cost of production.\n\nThe bust which swept the industry continued for a period of two years, a shakedown which resulted in the death of many fledgling companies. Many of the manufacturers who survived the downturn of the industry, generally basing their production in the Dominican Republic, Nicaragua, or Honduras, were able to reestablish themselves through the marketing of new and innovative shapes and sizes. Traditional ring gauges were de-emphasized in favor of thicker and longer products, a trend which has continued into the cigar market of the 21st century.\n\nCigar sales began to climb again only in 2001. The rate of growth in the subsequent decade was slow, steady, and sustainable, averaging 6 percent annually. In 2011 a total of 278.5 million premium cigars were imported into the United States — 2.5 times the level of the last \"pre-boom\" year, 1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "1436842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1436842", "title": "Clinical governance", "text": "Clinical governance\n\nClinical governance is a systematic approach to maintaining and improving the quality of patient care within the National Health Service, (NHS). Clinical governance became important in health care after the Bristol heart scandal in 1995, during which an anaesthetist, Dr Stephen Bolsin, exposed the high mortality rate for paediatric cardiac surgery at the Bristol Royal Infirmary. It was originally elaborated within the United Kingdom National Health Service (NHS), and its most widely cited formal definition describes it as:\n\nA framework through which NHS organisations are accountable for continually improving the quality of their services and safeguarding high standards of care by creating an environment in which excellence in clinical care will flourish.\n\nThis definition is intended to embody three key attributes: recognisably high standards of care, transparent responsibility and accountability for those standards, and a constant dynamic of improvement.\n\nThe concept has some parallels with the more widely known corporate governance, in that it addresses those structures, systems and processes that assure the quality, accountability and proper management of an organisation's operation and delivery of service. However clinical governance applies only to health and social care organisations, and only those aspects of such organisations that relate to the delivery of care to patients and their carers; it is not concerned with the other business processes of the organisation except insofar as they affect the delivery of care. The concept of \"integrated governance\" has emerged to refer jointly to the corporate governance and clinical governance duties of healthcare organisations.\n\nPrior to 1999, the principal statutory responsibilities of UK NHS Trust Boards were to ensure proper financial management of the organisation and an acceptable level of patient safety. Trust Boards had no statutory duty to ensure a particular level of quality. Maintaining and improving the quality of care was understood to be the responsibility of the relevant clinical professions. In 1999, Trust Boards assumed a legal responsibility for quality of care that is equal in measure to their other statutory duties. Clinical governance is the mechanism by which that responsibility is discharged.\n\n\"Clinical governance\" does not mandate any particular structure, system or process for maintaining and improving the quality of care, except that designated responsibility for clinical governance must exist at Trust Board level, and that each Trust must prepare an Annual Review of Clinical Governance to report on quality of care and its maintenance. Beyond that, the Trust and its various clinical departments are obliged to interpret the principle of clinical governance into locally appropriate structures, processes, roles and responsibilities.\n\nClinical governance is composed of at least the following elements:\n\nIt is no longer considered acceptable for any clinician to abstain from continuing education after qualification - too much of what is learned during training becomes quickly outdated. In NHS Trusts, the continuing professional development (CPD) of clinicians has been the responsibility of the Trust and it has also been the professional duty of clinicians to remain up-to-date.\n\nClinical audit is the review of clinical performance, the refining of clinical practice as a result and the measurement of performance against agreed standards - a cyclical process of improving the quality of clinical care. In one form or another, audit has been part of good clinical practice for generations. Whilst audit has been a requirement of NHS Trust employees, in primary care clinical audit has only been \"encouraged\", where audit time has had to compete with other priorities.\n\nClinical effectiveness is a measure of the extent to which a particular intervention works. The measure on its own is useful, but decisions are enhanced by considering additional factors, such as whether the intervention is appropriate and whether it represents value for money. In the modern health service, clinical practice needs to be refined in the light of emerging evidence of effectiveness but also has to consider aspects of efficiency and safety from the perspective of the individual patient and carers in the wider community.\n\nA good professional practice is to always seek to change in the light of evidence-led research. The time lag for introducing such change can be substantial, thus reducing the time lag and associated morbidity requires emphasis not only on carrying out research but also on efficiently implementing said research.\nTechniques such as critical appraisal of the literature, project management and the development of guidelines, protocols and implementation strategies are all tools for promoting the implementation of research practice.\n\nPoor performance and poor practice can too often thrive behind closed doors. Processes which are open to public scrutiny, while respecting individual patient and practitioner confidentiality, and which can be justified openly, are an essential part of quality assurance. Open proceedings and discussion about clinical governance issues should be a feature of the framework.\n\nAny organisation providing high quality care has to show that it is meeting the needs of the population it serves. Health needs assessment and understanding the problems and aspirations of the community requires the cooperation between NHS organisations, public health departments, local authorities and community health councils.\n\nThe system of clinical governance brings together all the elements which seek to promote quality of care.\n\nRisk management involves consideration of the following components:\n\n\"Risks to patients\": compliance with statutory regulations can help to minimise risks to patients. In addition, patient risks can be minimised by ensuring that systems are regularly reviewed and questioned - for example, by \"critical event audit\" and learning from complaints. Medical ethical standards are also a key factor in maintaining patient and public safety and well-being.\n\n\"Risks to practitioners\": ensuring that healthcare professionals are immunised against infectious diseases, working in a safe environment (e.g. safety in acute mental health units, promoting an anti-harassment culture) and are kept up-to-date on important parts of quality assurance. Furthermore, keeping healthcare professionals up to date with guidelines such as fire safety, basic life support (BLS) and local trust updates is also important, these can be annually or more frequent depending on risk stratification.\n\n\"Risks to the organisation\": poor quality is a threat to any organisation. In addition to reducing risks to patients and practitioners, organisations need to reduce their own risks by ensuring high quality employment practice (including locum procedures and reviews of individual and team performance), a safe environment (including estates and privacy), and well designed policies on public involvement.\n\nBalancing these risk components may be an ideal that is difficult to achieve in practice. Recent research by Fischer and colleagues at the University of Oxford finds that tensions between 'first order' risks (based on clinical care) and 'second order' risks (based on organisational reputation) can produce unintended contradictions, conflict, and may even precipitate organisational crisis.\n\nInformation management in health:\nPatient records (demographic, Socioeconomic, Clinical information) proper collection, management and use of information within healthcare systems will determine the system’s effectiveness in detecting health problems, defining priorities, identifying innovative solutions and allocating resources to improve health outcomes.\n\nIf clinical governance is to truly function effectively as a systematic approach to maintaining and improving the quality of patient care within a health system, it requires advocates. It also requires systems and people to be in place to promote and develop it.\n\nThe system has found supporters outside of the UK. The not-for-profit UK hospital accreditation group the Trent Accreditation Scheme base their system upon NHS clinical governance, and apply it to hospitals in Hong Kong and Malta.\nAlso in the Spanish National Health Service several experiences has been implemented, such the ones in Andalucía and Asturias.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9477059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9477059", "title": "Crohn's &amp; Colitis Foundation", "text": "Crohn's &amp; Colitis Foundation\n\nThe Crohn's and Colitis Foundation is a volunteer-driven non-profit organization dedicated to finding cures for Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis and improving the quality of life of children and adults affected by these digestive diseases. Founded by Shelby Modell and Irwin M. Rosenthal, and formerly known as National Foundation for Ileitis and Colitis and Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America, it was incorporated on December 17, 1965. CCF has more than 50,000 members, served by the national headquarters, as well as over 40 chapters nationwide.\n\nResearch, educational workshops and symposia, together with the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation scientific journal, \"Inflammatory Bowel Diseases\", enable medical professionals to keep pace with this rapidly growing field. The National Institutes of Health has commended the Foundation for \"uniting the research community and strengthening IBD research\". The Foundation ranks third among leading health non-profits in the percentage of expense devoted to mission-critical programs, with at least 80 cents of every dollar the Foundation spends going toward medical research, professional education, and patient support.\n\nFour decades ago, the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation created the field of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis research. The Foundation funds studies at medical institutions, nurtures investigators at the early stages of their careers, and finances underdeveloped areas of research to find the causes of and cures for Crohn’s and colitis. The Foundation has provided more than $150 million for Crohn's and colitis research to date.\n\nThe Crohn's & Colitis Foundation offers literature and patient support services nationally as well as through its forty regional chapters. The Foundation provides information and education for the estimated 1.6 million inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients and their families through a variety of periodicals (\"Take Charge\", \"Under the Microscope\" ), books, awareness campaigns, local chapter events, Webcasts, and through its web site.[3] Due to its extensive public awareness and outreach efforts, the Foundation reaches at least one out of every 18 patients, compared to the Arthritis Foundation, with one out of every 85, or the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, with one out of every 435.\n\nAdvocacy is a major component of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation's mission. Its advocates are not only patients, but family members, friends, caregivers, and doctors who want to make their voices heard and see a future free from Crohn's and colitis. Foundation advocates call for increased Federal funding for Crohn's and colitis research and awareness programs designed to improve the lives of patients and improved access to care. The Foundation encourages its members, volunteers, and friends to become actively involved in advancing its public policy goals.\n\nThe Crohn's & Colitis Foundation designated the week of December 1–7 as Crohn's and Colitis Awareness Week in order to encourage all Americans to join in the effort to find cures for these diseases, help raise awareness and support research.\n\nThe Crohn's & Colitis Foundation primarily relies on the support of members and donors to continue its work. The Foundation raises critical dollars through its local and nationwide special events, spearheaded by its national Team Challenge and Take Steps programs.\n\nTeam Challenge is the Foundation's endurance training and fundraising program, which prepares participants to run or walk a half marathon, take part in a cycling event, or experience a sprint triathlon while raising money for a cure.\n\nTake Steps, the Foundation's largest fundraising event, mobilizes participants in over 150 local communities across the nation to come together and walk for Crohn’s and colitis research.\n\nThe Foundation received $3,042,350 of grants from the United States Department of Health and Human Services between 2008 and 2015.\n\nCrohn's and Colitis Foundation of America established the Great Comebacks Awards in 1984 in order to recognize individuals who have triumphed over inflammatory bowel disease. In 1991, the award was given to Dr. P. Kent Cullen, a colon surgeon who has ulcerative colitis and has undergone multiple ostomy surgeries.\n\nThe mission of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation is \"to cure Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, and to improve the quality of life of children and adults affected by these diseases.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "26246757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26246757", "title": "Current Dental Terminology", "text": "Current Dental Terminology\n\nCurrent Dental Terminology (CDT) is a code set with descriptive terms developed and updated by the American Dental Association (ADA) for reporting dental services and procedures to dental benefits plans. Prior to 2010 many of the codes were published by CMS as HCPCS D-codes under arrangement with the ADA. Ownership and copyright of CDT remained with the ADA. In 2010 the ADA ended the CMS distribution of CDT codes, which can now be purchased from the ADA.\n\nFor the year 2013, the ADA began publishing the CDT codes on an annual basis. There are new codes, revised codes and deleted codes in each annual edition and dental professionals must update these codes to maintain compliance with HIPAA regulations. In addition, payment to dental professionals is based on the CDT code(s) reported on the ADA Claim Form, so using the most current codes helps to maximize reimbursement and minimize audit liability.\nIn the near future, dental professionals will be required to use diagnosis codes in support of the procedures and services they provide. The 2012 edition of the Dental Claim Form includes fields for diagnosis codes and instructions covering the use of the ICD-9-CM and ICD-10-CM coding systems. In addition to ICD-9-CM and ICD-10-CM there are other dental diagnostic coding systems under consideration, including SNODENT and EZCODES. \n"}
{"id": "1463110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1463110", "title": "Drinking fountain", "text": "Drinking fountain\n\nA drinking fountain, also called a bubbler (generic trademark) or water fountain, is a fountain designed to provide drinking water. It consists of a basin with either continuously running water or a tap. The drinker bends down to the stream of water and swallows water directly from the stream. Modern indoor drinking fountains may incorporate filters to remove impurities from the water and chillers to lower its temperature. Drinking fountains are usually found in public places, like schools, rest areas, libraries, and grocery stores. Many jurisdictions require drinking fountains to be wheelchair accessible (by sticking out horizontally from the wall), and to include an additional unit of a lower height for children and short adults. The design that this replaced often had one spout atop a refrigeration unit.\n\nUse of the words \"water fountain\" and \"drinking fountain\" vary across regional dialects of English.\n\n\"See also: Drinking fountains in the United States, Temperance fountain\"\n\nBefore potable water was provided in private homes, water for drinking was made available to citizens of cities through access to public fountains. Many of these early public drinking fountains can still be seen (and used) in cities such as Rome, with its many \"fontanelle\" and \"nasoni\" (big noses). \n\nIn mid-19th century London, water provision from private water companies was generally inadequate for the rapidly growing population and was often contaminated. Legislation in the mid nineteenth century formed the Metropolitan Commission of Sewers, made water filtration compulsory, and moved water intakes on the Thames above the sewage outlets. In this context, the public drinking fountain movement began. It built the first public baths and public drinking fountains.\nIn London, the Metropolitan Free Drinking Fountain Association was established in 1859. The first fountain was built on Holborn Hill on the railings of the church of St Sepulchre-without-Newgate on Snow Hill, paid for by Samuel Gurney, and opened on 21 April 1859. The fountain became immediately popular, used by 7,000 people a day. In the next six years 85 fountains were built, with much of the funding coming directly from the association. The movement soon became associated with the temperance movement as they provided a substitute for alcohol and were purposely positioned outside public houses.\n\nMuddied and bad tasting drinking water encouraged many Americans to drink alcohol for health purposes, so temperance groups constructed public drinking fountains throughout the United States following the Civil War. The National Woman's Christian Temperance Union (NWCTU)'s organizing convention of 1874 encouraged its attendees to erect the fountains in their hometowns. The NWCTU advocated the fountains as a means to discourage people from entering saloons for refreshment. The NWCTU sponsored temperance fountains in towns and cities across the United States.\n\nAfter many of the aqueducts were destroyed after the siege of Paris in the 1870s, the Parisian poor had no access to fresh water. Richard Wallace, an Englishman, used the money from an inheritance to fund the construction of 50 drinking fountains (ever after known as ‘Wallace fountains’). Designed by Charles-Auguste Lebourg with four caryatids atop a green cylindrical base, these fountains have become iconic symbols of Paris.\n\nThe provision of drinking fountains in the United Kingdom was also linked to the temperance movement in the United Kingdom, with the Metropolitan Drinking Fountain and Cattle Trough Association in London drawing support from temperance advocates. Many of its fountains were sited opposite public houses. The evangelical movement was encouraged to build fountains in churchyards to encourage the poor to see churches as supporting them. Many fountains have inscriptions such as \"Jesus said whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again but whosoever drinketh of the water I shall give him shall never thirst\". By 1877, the association was widely accepted and Queen Victoria donated money for a fountain in Esher. Many fountains, within London and outside, were called temperance fountains or would have a representation of the Greek mythical figure Temperance.\n\nA movement concerned with animal welfare resulted in the founding of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in 1866. One of its concerns was the difficulty of finding fresh water for work horses in urban areas. Combination drinking fountains that provided a bubbler for people and a water trough for horses, and sometimes a lower basin for dogs, became popular. In particular, over 120 National Humane Alliance fountains were donated to communities across the United States between 1903 and 1913. The fountains were the gift of philanthropist Hermon Lee Ensign.\n\nDrinking fountains were also built in the United States beginning in 1889 by the then-small Kohler Water Works (now Kohler Company) in Kohler, Wisconsin, a company already established as a faucet producer. The original 'Bubbler' shot water one inch straight into the air, creating a bubbling texture, and the excess water ran back down over the sides of the nozzle. Several years later the Bubbler adopted the more sanitary arc projection, which also allowed the user to drink more easily from it. At the start of the 20th century, it was discovered that the original vertical design was related to the spread of many contagious diseases.\n\nDrinking fountains in the United States were often subject to racial segregation, until all legally enforced public segregation (segregation de jure) was abolished by the Civil Rights Act of 1964.\n\nIn recent studies, it has been found that some drinking fountains have been contaminated with pathogens such as bacteria. In one study, a virus commonly known to cause diarrhea in young children known as the rotavirus has been found on drinking fountains in child day care facilities. Due to cases in the past where children have fallen ill due to coliform bacteria poisoning, many governments have placed strict regulations on drinking fountain designs. The vertical spout design is now illegal in most US jurisdictions. Some governments even require water spouts to be as long as four inches to meet health standards. It is also recommended for young children to allow drinking fountains to run before drinking, as the water may also be contaminated with lead. This is especially common in older buildings with obsolete plumbing. In the 1970s, this fear of contamination in tap water was hyped by producers of bottled water, thereby changing attitudes to publicly provided water in drinking fountains, which began to disappear from city streets. \n\nThe term \"bubbler\" is used in some regional dialects of the United States and in Australia. A survey of US dialects undertaken between 2002 and 2004 found the word \"bubbler\" is commonly used in southern and eastern Wisconsin and in Massachusetts and Rhode Island. The phrase \"drinking fountain\" was common in the rest of the inland north and in the west, while \"water fountain\" dominated other parts of the country.\n\nThe term \"bubbler\" is sometimes used in the Portland, Oregon, region where in the early 1900s former Wisconsin resident Simon Benson installed 20 fountains, which are now known in the Portland area as \"Benson Bubblers\". Currently, there are 52 of these iconic four-bowl drinking fountains still providing free-flowing water in downtown Portland. \n\nFrost-resistant drinking fountains are used outdoors in cold climates and keep the control mechanisms below the frostline resulting in a delay for when water comes out.\n\n"}
{"id": "1615344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1615344", "title": "ECA stack", "text": "ECA stack\n\nThe ECA stack is a drug combination used in weight loss and as a stimulant. ECA is an initialism for ephedrine, caffeine, and aspirin, with variants of it including the EC stack, which removes the aspirin for those who can not tolerate it. Dietary supplements based on or including elements of ECA were popular through the 1990s and early 2000s, but the marketing of ephedra- or ephedrine-containing stimulant combinations for weight loss and bodybuilding is now restricted or illegal in the United States, Canada and Netherlands due to reports of heart attack, stroke, and death associated with these supplements.\n\nWhile it was available as a supplement, ECA was marketed with claims that it would aid weight loss, improve athletic performance and increase \"energy\".\n\nPlacebo-controlled studies have consistently found ephedrine in combination with caffeine to be effective in promoting moderate fat loss in the already-obese. A meta-analysis combining results from all available studies estimated average weight loss of 1 kg/month more than placebo.\n\nThere is insufficient evidence to support use of ephedra for athletic performance.\n\nNatural supplements that contain ephedra (aka \"Ma Huang\") as an ephedrine substitute have been linked to cases of heart attack, stroke, and death in healthy young adults even when taken at the labeled dosage. \n\nA 2003 meta-analysis of all available studies and case reports concluded that: \"ephedrine- and ephedra-containing dietary supplements [...] have harms in terms of a 2- to 3-fold increase in psychiatric symptoms, autonomic symptoms, upper gastrointestinal symptoms, and heart palpitations. More serious adverse effects from ephedra use cannot be excluded at a rate less than 1.0 per thousand, and case reports raise the possibility that a causal relationship with serious adverse events may exist.\"\n\nDue to deaths linked to ephedra-containing dietary supplements and the potential use of ephedrine as a precursor in illegal methamphetamine manufacture, many countries have taken steps to regulate these products.\n\nIn the United States, it is illegal to market products containing ephedrine or ephedra alkaloids as a dietary supplement. In 2004, ephedra, a botanical source of ephedrine alkaloids, was banned by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration due to serious safety concerns, injuries, and deaths linked to ephedra-containing supplements. However, ephedrine itself has never been illegal in the United States and is currently available over-the-counter. Reporting requirements and quantity limitations vary by state.\n\nA Congressional report said that when an ephedra supplement company, Metabolife, in the USA was forced to release adverse event reports, cardiac and psychological reports were recorded in healthy young people at normal dosages.\n\nIn January 2002, Health Canada issued a voluntary recall of all ephedrine products containing more than 8 mg per dose, all combinations of ephedrine with other stimulants such as caffeine, and all ephedrine products marketed for weight-loss or bodybuilding indications, citing a serious risk to health.\n\nAn EC formulation called \"Letigen\" which combined 20 mg of synthetic ephedrine and 200 mg of caffeine (recommended dose: 1-3 pills per day depending on user tolerance) was approved for sale by prescription in Denmark in 1990. During the peak of its use (in 1999) roughly 2% of the Danish population was using it. That product's marketing was discontinued in 2002 upon the same sort of adverse reports seen in other countries.\n"}
{"id": "2340554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2340554", "title": "Epidemiology of HIV/AIDS", "text": "Epidemiology of HIV/AIDS\n\nHIV/AIDS is a global pandemic. As of 2017, approximately 36.9 million people are living with HIV globally. In 2018, approximately 43% are women. There were about 940 000 deaths from AIDS in 2017. The 2015 Global Burden of Disease Study, in a report published in \"The Lancet\", estimated that the global incidence of HIV infection peaked in 1997 at 3.3 million per year. Global incidence fell rapidly from 1997 to 2005, to about 2.6 million per year, but remained stable from 2005 to 2015.\n\nSub-Saharan Africa is the region most affected. In 2017, an estimated 66% of new HIV infections occurred in this region. . Prevalence ratios are \"In western and central Europe and North America, low and declining incidence of HIV and mortality among people living with HIV over the last 17 years has seen the incidence:prevalence ratio fall from 0.06 in 2000 to 0.03 in 2017. Strong and steady reductions in new HIV infections and mortality among people living with HIV in eastern and southern Africa has pushed the ratio down from 0.11 in 2000 to 0.04 in 2017. Progress has been more gradual in Asia and the Pacific (0.05 in 2017), Latin America (0.06 in 2017), the Caribbean (0.05 in 2017) and western and central Africa (0.06 in 2017). The incidence:prevalence ratios of the Middle East and North Africa (0.08 in 2017) and eastern Europe and central Asia (0.09 in 2017)\". South Africa has the largest population of people with HIV of any country in the world, at 7.06;million. as of 2017. In Tanzania, HIV/AIDS was reported to have a prevalence of 4.5% among Tanzanian adults aged 15–49 in 2017 .\n\nSouth & South-East Asia (a region with about 2 billion people as of 2010, over 30% of the global population) has an estimated 4 million cases (12% of all people living with HIV), with about 250,000 deaths in 2010. Approximately 2.5 million of these cases are in India, where however the prevalence is only about 0.3% (somewhat higher than that found in Western and Central Europe or Canada). Prevalence is lowest in East Asia at 0.1%.\n\nIn 2008, approximately 1.2 million people in the United States had HIV; 20% did not realize that they were infected. Over the 10-year period from 1999 to 2008, it resulted in about 17,500 deaths per year.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, as of 2016, there were approximately 89,400 cases and 428 deaths. In Australia, as of 2017, there were about 27,545 cases. \nIn Canada as of 2016, there were about 63,110 cases. \n\nA reconstruction of its genetic history shows that the HIV pandemic almost certainly originated in Kinshasa, the capital of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, around 1920. AIDS was first recognized in 1981 and by 2009 had caused nearly 30 million deaths.\n\nHIV in World in 2014 – data from CIA World Factbook\n\nBy December 16, more than 19.5 million people were receiving antiretroviral therapy.\nHIV/AIDS in World from 2001 to 2014 – adult prevalence rate – data from CIA World Factbook\nThe pandemic is not homogeneous within regions, with some countries more afflicted than others. Even at the country level, there are wide variations in infection levels between different areas. The number of people infected with HIV continues to rise in most parts of the world, despite the implementation of prevention strategies, Sub-Saharan Africa being by far the worst-affected region, with an estimated 22.9 million at the end of 2010, 68% of the global total.\n\nSouth and South East Asia have an estimated 12% of the global total. The rate of new infections has fallen slightly since 2005 after a more rapid decline between 1997 and 2005. Annual AIDS deaths have been continually declining since 2005 as antiretroviral therapy has become more widely available.\n\nSub-Saharan Africa remains the hardest-hit region. HIV infection is becoming endemic in sub-Saharan Africa, which is home to just over 12% of the world’s population but two-thirds of all people infected with HIV. The adult HIV prevalence rate is 5.0% and between 21.6 million and 24.1 million total are affected. However, the actual prevalence varies between regions. Presently, Southern Africa is the hardest hit region, with adult prevalence rates exceeding 20% in most countries in the region, and 30% in Swaziland and Botswana.\n\nEastern Africa also experiences relatively high levels of prevalence with estimates above 10% in some countries, although there are signs that the pandemic is declining in this region. West Africa on the other hand has been much less affected by the pandemic.\nSeveral countries reportedly have prevalence rates around 2 to 3%, and no country has rates above 10%. In Nigeria and Côte d'Ivoire, two of the region's most populous countries, between 5 and 7% of adults are reported to carry the virus.\n\nAcross Sub-Saharan Africa, more women are infected with HIV than men, with 13 women infected for every 10 infected men. This gender gap continues to grow. Throughout the region, women are being infected with HIV at earlier ages than men. The differences in infection levels between women and men are most pronounced among young people (aged 15–24 years). In this age group, there are 36 women infected with HIV for every 10 men. The widespread prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases, the promiscuous culture, the practice of scarification, unsafe blood transfusions, and the poor state of hygiene and nutrition in some areas may all be facilitating factors in the transmission of HIV-1 (Bentwich et al., 1995).\n\nMother-to-child transmission is another contributing factor in the transmission of HIV-1 in developing nations. Due to a lack of testing, a shortage in antenatal therapies and through the feeding of contaminated breast milk, 590,000 infants born in developing countries are infected with HIV-1 per year. In 2000, the World Health Organization estimated that 25% of the units of blood transfused in Africa were not tested for HIV, and that 10% of HIV infections in Africa were transmitted via blood.\n\nPoor economic conditions (leading to the use of dirty needles in healthcare clinics) and lack of sex education contribute to high rates of infection. In some African countries, 25% or more of the working adult population is HIV-positive. Poor economic conditions caused by slow onset-emergencies, such as drought, or rapid onset natural disasters and conflict can result in young women and girls being forced into using sex as a survival strategy. Worse still, research indicates that as emergencies, such as drought, take their toll and the number of potential 'clients' decreases, women are forced by clients to accept greater risks, such as not using contraceptives.\n\nAIDS-denialist policies have impeded the creation of effective programs for distribution of antiretroviral drugs. Denialist policies by former South African President Thabo Mbeki's administration led to several hundred thousand unnecessary deaths. UNAIDS estimates that in 2005 there were 5.5 million people in South Africa infected with HIV — 12.4% of the population. This was an increase of 200,000 people since 2003.\n\nAlthough HIV infection rates are much lower in Nigeria than in other African countries, the size of Nigeria's population meant that by the end of 2003, there were an estimated 3.6 million people infected. On the other hand, Uganda, Zambia, Senegal, and most recently Botswana have begun intervention and educational measures to slow the spread of HIV, and Uganda has succeeded in actually reducing its HIV infection rate.\n\nHIV/AIDS prevalence in the Middle East and North Africa is around 0.2% (0.1–0.7%), with between 230,000 and 1.4 million people infected. Among young people 15–24 years of age, 0.3% of women [0.1–0.8%] and 0.17% of men [0.1–0.3%] were living with HIV infection by the end of 2004.\nApproximately 500,000 people are living with HIV in the MENA region. This number is \nestimated at 470,000 (350,000–570,000) without Afghanistan and Pakistan (which are not \nconsidered by UNAIDS geographic definition as part of MENA region), and reaches 580,000 \n(430,000–810,000) if Pakistan and Afghanistan are included. In 2015, only 37% of people living with HIV were actually aware of their status.\n\nDespite the low prevalence of HIV/AIDS in the MENA region, there are epidemics among vulnerable groups with an evidence of substantial proportion of local spread within the region. As of 2012, the prevalence of HIV among men who have sex with men in Egypt is estimated to be 5.0%–9.9%.\n\nThe HIV prevalence rate in South and South-East Asia is less than 0.35 percent, with total of 4.2 – 4.7 million adults and children infected. More AIDS deaths (480,000) occur in this region than in any other except sub-Saharan Africa. The geographical size and human diversity of South and South-East Asia have resulted in HIV epidemics differing across the region.\n\nIn South and Southeast Asia, the HIV epidemic remains largely concentrated in injecting drug users, men who have sex with men, sex workers, and clients of sex workers and their immediate sexual partners. In the Philippines, in particular, sexual contact between males comprise the majority of new infections. An HIV surveillance study conducted by Dr. Louie Mar Gangcuangco and colleagues from the University of the Philippines-Philippine General Hospital showed that out of 406 MSM tested for HIV in Metro Manila, HIV prevalence was 11.8% (95% confidence interval: 8.7- 15.0).\n\nMigrants, in particular, are vulnerable and 67% of those infected in Bangladesh and 41% in Nepal are migrants returning from India. This is in part due to human trafficking and exploitation, but also because even those migrants who willingly go to India in search of work are often afraid to access state health services due to concerns over their immigration status.\n\nThe national HIV prevalence levels in East Asia is 0.1% in the adult (15–49) group. However, due to the large populations of many East Asian nations, this low national HIV prevalence still means that large numbers of people are infected with HIV. The picture in this region is dominated by China. Much of the current spread of HIV in China is through injecting drug use and paid sex. In China, the number was estimated at between 430,000 and 1.5 million by independent researchers, with some estimates going much higher.\n\nIn the rural areas of China, where large numbers of farmers, especially in Henan province, participated in unclean blood transfusions; estimates of those infected are in the tens of thousands. In Japan, just over half of HIV/AIDS cases are officially recorded as occurring amongst homosexual men, with the remainder occurring amongst heterosexuals and also via drug abuse, in the womb or unknown means.\n\nIn East Asia, men who have sex with men account for 18% of new HIV/AIDS cases and are therefore a key affected group along with sex workers and their clients who makeup 29% of new cases. This is also a noteworthy aspect because men who have sex with men had a prevalence of at least 5% or higher in countries in Asia and Pacific.\n\nThe Caribbean is the second-most affected region in the world. Among adults aged 15–44, AIDS has become the leading cause of death. The region's adult prevalence rate is 0.9%. with national rates ranging up to 2.7%. HIV transmission occurs largely through heterosexual intercourse. A greater number of people who get infected with HIV/AIDS are heterosexuals. with two-thirds of AIDS cases in this region attributed to this route. Sex between men is also a significant route of transmission, even though it is heavily stigmatised and illegal in many areas. HIV transmission through injecting drug use remains rare, except in Bermuda and Puerto Rico.\n\nWithin the Caribbean, the country with the highest prevalence of HIV/AIDS is the Bahamas with a rate of 3.2% of adults with the disease. However, when comparing rates from 2004 to 2013, the number of newly diagnosed cases of HIV decreased by 4% over those years. Increased education and treatment drugs will help to decrease incidence levels even more.\n\nThe populations of Central and South America have approximately 1.6 million people currently living with HIV and this number has remained relatively unvarying with having a prevalence of approximately .4%. In Latin America, those living with the disease have received help in the form of Antiretroviral treatment, with 75% of people with HIV receiving the treatment.\n\nIn these regions of the American continent, only Guatemala and Honduras have national HIV prevalence of over 1%. In these countries, HIV-infected men outnumber HIV-infected women by roughly 3:1.\n\nWith HIV/AIDS incidence levels rising in Central America, education is the most important step in controlling the spread of this disease. In Central America, many people do not have access to treatment drugs. This results in 8–14% of people dying from AIDS in Honduras. To reduce the incidence levels of HIV/AIDS, education and drug access needs to improve.\n\nIn a study of immigrants traveling to Europe, all asymptomatic persons were tested for a variety of infectious diseases. The prevalence of HIV among the 383 immigrants from Latin America was low, with only one person testing positive for a HIV infection. This data was collected from a group of immigrants with the majority from Bolivia, Ecuador and Colombia.\n\nSince the epidemic began in the early 1980s, 1,216,917 people have been diagnosed with AIDS in the US, with 1.1 million people in 2014 living with HIV. 1 in 7 of them are not aware of it, with an estimated 161,200 (13%) not having been diagnosed. In 2015, 39,513 people were diagnosed with HIV infection in the United States, a decrease of 19% from 2005 to 2014. The decrease may be due to targeted HIV prevention efforts, but progress has been uneven, and diagnoses have increased among a few groups. Men who had sex with men accounted for approximately 8 out of 10 HIV diagnoses among males. Diagnoses dropped 18% overall among white homosexual and bisexual men, but rose 24% among Hispanic/Latino and 22% among African American homosexual and bisexual men (87% among those aged 13 to 24), respectively. HIV diagnoses declined 35% among all heterosexuals (heterosexual contact accounting for 24% of HIV diagnoses), and 63% among people who inject drugs. Diagnoses also declined 40% among all women, and 42% among African American women. Regionally, the population rates (per 100,000 people) of persons diagnosed with HIV infection in 2015 were highest in the South (16.8), followed by the Northeast (11.6), the West (9.8), and the Midwest (7.6).\n\nThe most frequent mode of transmission of HIV continues to be through male homosexual sexual relations. In general, recent studies have shown that 1 in 5 gay and bisexual men were infected with HIV. As of 2014, in the United States, 83% of new HIV diagnoses among all males aged 13 and older and 67% of the total estimated new diagnoses were among homosexual and bisexual men. Those aged 13 to 24 also accounted for an estimated 92% of new HIV diagnoses among all men in their age group.\n\nA review of studies containing data regarding the prevalence of HIV in transgender women found that nearly 11.8% self-reported that they were infected with HIV. Along with these findings, recent studies have also shown that transgender women are 34 times more likely to have HIV than other women. A 2008 review of HIV studies among transgender women found that 28 percent tested positive for HIV. In the National Transgender Discrimination Survey, 20.23% of black respondents reported being HIV-positive, with an additional 10% reporting that they were unaware of their status.\n\nAIDS is one of the top three causes of death for African American men aged 25–54 and for African American women aged 35–44 years in the United States of America. In the United States, African Americans make up about 48% of the total HIV-positive population and make up more than half of new HIV cases, despite making up only 12% of the population. The main route of transmission for women is through unprotected heterosexual sex. African American women are 19 times more likely to contract HIV than other women.\n\nBy 2008, there was increased awareness that young African-American women in particular were at high risk for HIV infection. In 2010, African Americans made up 10% of the population but about half of the HIV/AIDS cases nationwide. This disparity is attributed in part to a lack of information about AIDS and a perception that they are not vulnerable, as well as to limited access to health-care resources and a higher likelihood of sexual contact with at-risk male sexual partners.\n\nSince 1985, the incidence of HIV infection among women had been steadily increasing. In 2005 it was estimated that at least 27% of new HIV infections were in women. There has been increasing concern for the concurrency of violence surrounding women infected with HIV. In 2012, a meta-analysis showed that the rates of psychological trauma, including Intimate Partner Violence and PTSD in HIV positive women were more than five times and twice the national averages, respectively. In 2013, the White House commissioned an Interagency Federal Working Group to address the intersection of violence and women infected with HIV.\n\nThere are also geographic disparities in AIDS prevalence in the United States, where it is most common in the large cities of California, esp. Los Angeles and San Francisco and the East Coast, ex. New York City and in urban cities of the Deep South. Rates are lower in Utah, Texas, and Northern Florida. Washington, D.C., the nation's capital, has the nation's highest rate of infection, at 3%. This rate is comparable to what is seen in west Africa, and is considered a severe epidemic.\n\nIn the United States in particular, a new wave of infection is being blamed on the use of methamphetamine, known as crystal meth. Research presented at the 12th Annual Retrovirus Conference in Boston in February 2005 concluded that using crystal meth or cocaine is the biggest single risk factor for becoming HIV+ among US gay men, contributing 29% of the overall risk of becoming positive and 28% of the overall risk of being the receptive partner in anal sex.\n\nIn addition, several renowned clinical psychologists now cite methamphetamine as the biggest problem facing gay men today, including Michael Majeski, who believes meth is the catalyst for at least 80% of seroconversions currently occurring across the United States, and Tony Zimbardi, who calls methamphetamine the number one cause of HIV transmission, and says that high rates of new HIV infection are not being found among non-crystal users. In addition, various HIV and STD clinics across the United States report anecdotal evidence that 75% of new HIV seroconversions they deal with are methamphetamine-related; indeed, in Los Angeles, methamphetamine is regarded as the main cause of HIV seroconversion among gay men in their late thirties. The chemical \"methamphetamine\", in and of itself, cannot infect someone with HIV.\n\nIn Canada, nearly 60,000 people were living with HIV/AIDS in 2005. The HIV-positive population continues to increase in Canada, with the greatest increases amongst aboriginal Canadians. As in Western Europe, the death rate from AIDS in North America fell sharply with the introduction of combination AIDS therapies (HAART).\n\nThere is growing concern about a rapidly growing epidemic in Eastern Europe and Central Asia, where an estimated 1.23–3.7 million people were infected as of December 2011, though the adult (15–49) prevalence rate is low (1.1%). The rate of HIV infections began to grow rapidly from the mid-1990s, due to social and economic collapse, increased levels of intravenous drug use and increased numbers of prostitutes. By 2010 the number of reported cases in Russia was over 450,000 according to the World Health Organization, up from 15,000 in 1995 and 190,000 in 2002; some estimates claim the real number is up to eight times higher, well over 2 million. There are predictions that the infection rate in Russia will continue to rise quickly, since education there about AIDS is almost non-existent.\n\nUkraine and Estonia also have growing numbers of infected people, with estimates of 650,000 and 4,400 respectively in 2011. The disease is now officially epidemic in this region, which means that prevention strategies may not be able to halt and reverse its spread. Also, transmission of HIV is increasing through sexual contact and drug use among the young (<30 years). Indeed, over 84% of current AIDS cases in this region occur in non-drug-using heterosexuals less than 26 years of age.\n\nIn most countries of Western Europe, AIDS cases have fallen to levels not seen since the original outbreak; many attribute this trend to aggressive educational campaigns, screening of blood transfusions and increased use of condoms. Also, the death rate from AIDS in Western Europe has fallen sharply, as new AIDS therapies have proven to be an effective (though expensive) means of suppressing HIV.\n\nIn this area, the routes of transmission of HIV is diverse, including paid sex, injecting drug use, mother to child, male with male sex and heterosexual sex. However, many new infections in this region occur through contact with HIV-infected individuals from other regions. The adult (15–49) prevalence in this region is 0.3% with between 570,000 and 890,000 people currently infected with HIV. Due to the availability of antiretroviral therapy, AIDS deaths have stayed low since the lows of the late 1990s. However, in some countries, a large share of HIV infections remain undiagnosed and there is worrying evidence of antiretroviral drug resistance among some newly HIV-infected individuals in this region.\n\nThere is a very large range of national situations regarding AIDS and HIV in this region. This is due in part to the large distances between the islands of Oceania. The wide range of development in the region also plays an important role. The prevalence is estimated at between 0.2% and 0.7%, with between 45,000 and 120,000 adults and children currently infected with HIV.\n\nPapua New Guinea has one of the most serious AIDS epidemics in the region. According to UNAIDS, HIV cases in the country have been increasing at a rate of 30 percent annually since 1997, and the country's HIV prevalence rate in late 2006 was 1.3%.\n\nIn June 2001, the United Nations held a Special General Assembly to intensify international action to fight the HIV/AIDS epidemic as a global health issue, and to mobilize the resources needed towards this aim, labelling the situation a \"global crisis\".\n\nRegarding the social effects of the HIV/AIDS pandemic, some sociologists suggest that AIDS has caused a \"profound re-medicalisation of sexuality\".\n\nSocial factors also influence HIV/AIDS. A 2003 study states that HIV and AIDS are less prevalent in Muslim populations and speculates that this may be due to the effect of several Islamic tenets, such as avoidance of alcohol leading to less risky sexual behavior and benefits arising from circumcision.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19023467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19023467", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Senegal", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Senegal\n\nAlthough Senegal is a relatively underdeveloped country, HIV prevalence in the general population is low at around 0.08 per 1000 people, under 1% of the population. This relatively low prevalence rate is aided by the fact that few people are infected every year– in 2016, 1100 new cases were reported vs 48,000 new cases in Brazil. Senegal's death due to HIV rate, particularly when compared it to its HIV prevalence rate, is relatively high with 1600 deaths in 2016. Almost two times as many women were infected with HIV as men in 2016, and while almost three times as many women were receiving antiretroviral therapy (ARV) as men, only 52% of HIV positive people in Senegal received ARV treatment in 2016.\n\nOne way that Senegal maintains a low HIV prevalence is through conservative cultural norms that discourage sex outside of marriage, limiting the number of sexual partners an average Senegalese person will have and thus limiting their chance of coming into contact with the virus. The government also passed legislation to make working closely with sex workers to ensure they get regular STI and HIV tests and treatment possible. Senegal also has had huge public health campaigns to promote condom usage. Senegalese hospitals have also had their blood supplies screened for syphilis and hepatitis since 1970, leading to the removal of some blood contaminated with HIV before an HIV antibody test was created. Currently, hospitals are well equipped with sterile equipment in order to prevent transmission of HIV by hospital procedure.\n\nIn the general population, 80% of new infections occur in people in monogamous relationships. According to Senegal's AIDS authority, among the newly infected, three-quarters of people engage in some high risk behavior. About one quarter of the newly infected engage in high risk behaviors themselves and about half of the newly infected have a partner who engages in high risk activities. Because homosexuality is illegal in Senegal, many MSMs have long term female partners as well as male partners, so many women unknowingly have a partner who is in a high risk group.\n\nWhile the overall HIV prevalence rate in Senegal is low, the prevalence rate is significantly higher in certain populations. Among men who have sex with men (MSM), the prevalence rate is around 19% and among sex workers, the prevalence rate is close to 22%. As a result, the Senegalese government has put emphasis on preventing transmission of the virus from these groups. The HIV transmission rate in MSM communities has not decreased, partially because Senegal maintains laws against homosexuality. As a result, MSMs fear seeking testing and treatment for HIV for fear of being arrested. Despite promising to work to reduce the HIV prevalence rate in communities of people having non-heterosexual sex, the Senegalese government arrested 9 men working in HIV prevention for violating anti-homosexuality laws. Despite the later overturning of their convictions, the arrests created fear and suspicion in the MSM community.\n\nThe Senegalese government provides medical services to registered sex workers, but in recent years, the number of covert sex workers has been increasing. These unregistered sex workers cannot access sex worker-specific government health services. As many as 80% of all Senegalese sex workers may be unregistered. As a result, most sex workers do not have access to government sponsored STI and HIV testing and education about HIV prevention.\n\nUnlike many African countries which denied the existence of the HIV epidemic, Senegal responded quickly when its first AIDS case was diagnosed in 1986. The Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA (PNLS) was established to coordinate the government's anti-AIDS activity in 1986 and was later renamed the Conseil National de Lutte contre le SIDA (CNLS). The Senegalese government worked in cooperation with religious leaders and health professionals in order to maximize the reach of HIV/AIDS prevention education. In addition to working with religious figures to enhance public cooperation, the Senegalese government ran a condom marketing campaign and distributed more than 10 million free condoms in partnership with USAID in order to try to limit HIV transmission. Many HIV positive people make efforts to hide their status because there is much discrimination against them, which complicates the government's attempts to provide services to the HIV positive population. The Senegalese government is still working to stop the spread of AIDS. CNLS's goals for 2030 include zero new infections, zero deaths tied to AIDS, and zero discrimination against HIV-positive Senegalese citizens.\n\n"}
{"id": "241271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241271", "title": "Health On the Net Foundation", "text": "Health On the Net Foundation\n\nHealth On the Net Foundation (HON) is a not-for-profit organization founded in 1995 under the auspices of the Geneva Department of Employment, Social Affairs and Health and based in Geneva, Switzerland. This came about following the gathering of 60 of the world's foremost experts on telemedicine to discuss the growing concerns over the unequal quality of online health information. The unanimous conclusion of this gathering was to create a permanent body that would, in the words of the program, \"promote the effective and reliable use of the new technologies for telemedicine in healthcare around the world\". The HON Foundation became one of the first organizations to guide both lay users and medical professionals to reliable sources of health information in cyberspace.\n\nThe mission of the foundation is to guide the growing community of healthcare consumers and providers on the Internet to sound, reliable medical information and expertise. In this way, HON seeks to contribute to improved health care through patient empowerment and better informed health professionals.\n\nHealth On the Net holds consultative status with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations (ECOSOC) and a special relationship with the World Health Organization (WHO). The French National Health Authority appointed Health On the Net in 2007 as its official body to certify health websites based in France.\n\nAs a “Liaison A” to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) Health Informatics Technical Committee (ISO/TC 215), Health On the Net contributes to the elaboration of standards developed by the committee.\n\nHealth On the Net offers users an array of tools and services to meet their health information needs, including: the HON Code of Conduct and its certification process; Khresmoi and HONselect search engines, which provide access to trustworthy websites and support groups, medical images and terminology, journal articles and news; Provisu.ch, a database of reliable health information on all eye diseases and accessible by those with poor or no vision through its variability of letter size and audio version; Santeromande.ch, a database directed towards the French-speaking public of Switzerland and neighboring France and providing reliable health information and a directory of registered health professionals, medical centers, hospitals, medical associations and federal organizations.\n\nHON Foundation issued a code of conduct (HONcode) for medical and health websites to address reliability and usefulness of medical information on the Internet. HONCode is not designed to rate the veracity of the information provided by a website. Rather, the code only states that the site holds to the standards, so that readers can know the source and purpose of the medical information presented. The HONcode is voluntary, which means that webmasters and information providers apply for HONcode certification. Following this, the website is reviewed by a specialized team of health and legal professionals. The HONcode certification is dynamic and is renewed yearly according to site compliance. It is the oldest and the most used ethical and trustworthy code for medical and health-related information on the Internet.\n\nThe principles of the HONcode are:\n\nEach principle also has a Web 2.0 component in order to address the evolution of the Web in terms of information provision, including social media use.\n\nThere are currently more than 8,000 HONcode certified websites, covering 90 countries. The HONcode has been translated into 35 languages. It is used to sensitize web publishers to the need for quality information and to create awareness among health professionals in order to help them guide their patients to trustworthy health information.\n\nResearch has shown that the HONcode is an indicator of reliability of health information. Additional studies demonstrate that websites using the HONcode quality standards are more reliable than those that do not. Additionally, the HONcode has been identified as an indicator of accuracy. Certified health pages have a statistically representative higher quality score than health websites that were not certified, with one going so far as to say that \"the results of their analysis have shown a quality score that is statistically superior for HON-certified sites proving that even if it is imperfect, this label remains a coherent and trustworthy tool.” (Translated from the French: “Les résultats de notre analyse ont montré un score de qualité statistiquement supérieur pour les sites certifiés HON prouvant que, même si imparfait, ce label reste un outil cohérent et fiable.\")\n\nThe HONcode only applies to a website’s editorial processes and details, not to the actual published contents. The term \"certification\" can be misleading to the general public, as it can infer that the contents of the website are trustworthy, reliable or otherwise independent. However, because the certification process is based on both self-declaration of adherence to the principles and assessment by a HONcode expert verifying that this is the case, it is not possible for a site to be initially certified if it does not meet the HONcode principles.\n\nHowever, it is possible for a certified site to change its content such that it no longer meets the certification criteria. While website owners are required to inform HON of any fundamental changes to their website during periods between certification and recertification, this is not always the case. Thus a site may be listed as certified when it no longer is. This is addressed at latest during the recertification process, or earlier if HON is notified that the site no longer meets certification standards. The HONcode is considered a useful guide and for some it provides the best overall guidance compared to other tools, but in the end the reliability of the information is also dependent on the information provider.\n\nThe HONcode principles themselves are subject to criticism, with some experts indicating they are not adapted to modern Internet usages and do not follow their own rules. In response to those limitations, one previously certified website has decided to no longer display the Health On the Net logo; another site warns visitors not to trust certified websites.\n\nYet greater awareness of the HONcode and its certification process is needed, with the authors of one study highlighting the need “to broadcast the relevance of HON certification so that creditable medical health information could be published online”.\n\nThe first year of certification is free of charge. However, the new recertification process, started in 2014 when the Foundation’s government sponsors required the Foundation to develop its financial independence, requires a financial contribution from the sites requesting recertification. The fees are as follows: €50 for non-profits with little visibility, €160 for sites with high visibility, and €325 for commercial websites. Visibility is determined by the website's Alexa ranking, introducing a further bias favoring disguised commercial websites instead of benevolent and scientific communities.\n\nIn 2000 a journal article raised a number of problems with the HONcode logo, indicating that consumers may mistake it as an award or interpret it as an indicator for assessed information. Other issues with the HONcode logo were discussed in the \"Journal of Medical Internet Research\", a peer-reviewed eHealth journal. Websites that are not in compliance with HONcode can continue to display the seal, as Health On the Net Foundation (HON) has no means of forcing the offending webmaster to remove the certification seal. However, as the certification seal active and dynamic , leading to a page on HON servers with the date of the certification’s validity and the status of certification in real time, the link from websites will lead to the page showing that the site is no longer in compliance – i.e. that it is either being reassessed or the certification has been revoked. This is indicated in real time. It is, however, possible for the site to retain the logo without the click through. Thus users should be aware that if the seal is not clickable, the site is no longer in compliance and is misusing the logo.\n\nConsumer protection advocate Stephen Barrett has been a strong supporter of the HONcode and has made efforts to improve compliance with its rules and to expose those who misuse it. A 2004 special supplement to \"The Washington Post\" provides coverage of his views on the subject, including suggested improvements and his criticisms of many named misusers.\n\nThe HONcode relies on the user’s sense of civic responsibility. In cases of suspected fraudulent websites or of misuse of the HONcode, HON advises internet users to alert Quackwatch or HON itself through the complaint mechanism on the HON website: \"If you come across a healthcare Web site that you believe is either possibly or blatantly fraudulent and does NOT display the HONcode, please alert Quackwatch. Of course, if such a site DOES display the HONcode, alert us immediately.\"\n\nOther problems with the application of the HONcode principles are that HON does not have a means of verifying many of the principles, such as credentials (medical or otherwise) as stated on websites displaying the logo, or that copyright or confidentiality is not violated by webmasters.\n\n"}
{"id": "24465780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24465780", "title": "Health in Spain", "text": "Health in Spain\n\nIn 2012, life expectancy at birth in Spain reached 82.5 years, one of the highest among OECD countries and more than two years higher than the OECD average (80.2 years). Only Japan (83.2 years), Iceland (83.0 years) and Switzerland (82.8 years) had a higher life expectancy than Spain in 2012. The top three causes of death since 1970 have been cardiovascular diseases, cancer and respiratory diseases.\n\nIn 2013 there had been a 14% rise in the number of overweight people since 1987 when the figure had been 40% according to a survey conducted by the Instituto Nacional de Estadistica. 18% of men and 16% of women were regarded as obese. These was attributed to an increase in sedentary lifestyles. 14.4% of men and 17% of women declared they don't do any physical exercise. In 2015 according to the World Health Organization 22.8% of men and 24.7% of women were obese. Spain was number 48 on the global obesity scale.\n\nSpain has achieved progress in reducing tobacco consumption over the past decade, with rates of daily smokers among adults coming down 32% in 2001 to 24% in 2011. However, smoking rates in Spain still remain higher than the developed world average.\n\nIn 2015 it was estimated that 10.58% of the population has diabetes, costing about $3,090 per person per year.\n\nSpain's 19 autonomous communities, consisting of 17 Regions and 2 cities, follow health policies established by the Inter-Territorial Health Council that was formed by the National and Regional Ministries of Health. This Inter-Territorial Council is composed of representatives from each region and meets to discuss health related issues spanning across Spain. The Institute of Health Carlos III (ISCIIII) is a public research institute that manages biomedical research for the advancement of health sciences and disease preventions. The ISCIII may suggest the introduction of new vaccines into Spain's Recommended Health Schedule and is under direct control of the Ministry of Health. Although the Ministry of Health is responsible for the oversight of health care services, the policy of devolution divides responsibilities among local agencies, including health planning and programing, fiscal duties, and direct management of health services. This decentralization proposes difficulties in collecting information at the national level. The Inter-Territorial Council's Commission on Public Health works to establish health care policies according to recommendations by technical working groups via letters, meetings, and conferences. The Technical Working Group on Vaccines review data on vaccine preventable diseases and proposes recommendations for policies. No additional groups outside the government propose recommendations. Recommendations must be approved by the Commission of Public Health and then by the Inter-Territorial Council, at which point they are incorporated into the National Immunization Schedule.\n\nThe Spanish Association of Pediatrics, in conjunction with the Spanish Medicines Agency, outlines specifications for vaccination schedules and policies and provides a history of vaccination policies implemented in the past, as well as legislature pertaining to the public currently. Spain's Constitution does not mandate vaccination, so it is voluntary unless authorities require compulsory vaccination in the case of epidemics. In 1921 vaccination became mandatory for smallpox, and in 1944 the Bases Health Act mandated compulsory vaccination for diphtheria and smallpox, but was suspended in 1979 after the elimination of the threat of an epidemic. The first systematic immunization schedule for the provinces of Spain was established in 1975 and has continuously been updated by each autonomous community in regard to doses at certain ages and recommendation of additional vaccine not proposed in the schedule. The 2015 schedule proposed the newest change with the inclusion of pneumococcal vaccine for children under 12 months. For 2016, the schedule plans to propose a vaccine against varicella in children at 12–15 months and 3–4 years. Furthermore, the General Health Law of 1986 echoes Article 40.2 from the Constitution guaranteeing the right to the protection of health, and states employers must provide vaccines to workers if they are at risk of exposure. Due to vaccination coverage in each Community, there is little anti-vaccine activity or opposition to the current schedule, and no organized groups against vaccines. The universal public health care provides coverage for all residents, while central and regional support programs extend coverage to immigrant populations. However, no national funds are granted to the Communities for vaccine purchases. Vaccines are financed from taxes, and paid in full by the Community government. Law 21 in Article 2.6 establishes the need for proper clinical documentation and informed consent by the patient, although written informed consent is not mandated in the verbal request of a vaccine for a minor. The autonomous regions collect data, from either electronic registries or written physician charts, to calculate immunization coverage.\n\n"}
{"id": "300445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300445", "title": "Human chorionic gonadotropin", "text": "Human chorionic gonadotropin\n\nHuman chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is a hormone produced by the placenta after implantation. The presence of hCG is detected in some pregnancy tests (HCG pregnancy strip tests). Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone; therefore, elevated levels measured when the patient is not pregnant may lead to a cancer diagnosis and, if high enough, paraneoplastic syndromes, however, it is not known whether this production is a contributing cause, or an effect of carcinogenesis. The pituitary analog of hCG, known as luteinizing hormone (LH), is produced in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages.\n\nRegarding endogenous forms of hCG, there are various ways to categorize and measure them, including total hCG, C-terminal peptide total hCG, intact hCG, free β-subunit hCG, β-core fragment hCG, hyperglycosylated hCG, nicked hCG, alpha hCG, and pituitary hCG. Regarding pharmaceutical preparations of hCG from animal or synthetic sources, there are many gonadotropin preparations, some of which are medically justified and others of which are of a quack nature. , the United States Food and Drug Administration has prohibited the sale of \"homeopathic\" and over-the-counter hCG diet products and declared them fraudulent and illegal.\n\nHuman chorionic gonadotropin is a glycoprotein composed of 237 amino acids with a molecular mass of 36.7 kDa, approximately 14.5 αhCG and 22.2kDa βhCG.\n\nIt is heterodimeric, with an α (alpha) subunit identical to that of luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), and β (beta) subunit that is unique to hCG.\n\n\nThe two subunits create a small hydrophobic core surrounded by a high surface area-to-volume ratio: 2.8 times that of a sphere. The vast majority of the outer amino acids are hydrophilic.\n\nHuman chorionic gonadotropin interacts with the LHCG receptor of the ovary and promotes the maintenance of the corpus luteum during the beginning of pregnancy. This allows the corpus luteum to secrete the hormone progesterone during the first trimester. Progesterone enriches the uterus with a thick lining of blood vessels and capillaries so that it can sustain the growing fetus.\n\nDue to its highly negative charge, hCG may repel the immune cells of the mother, protecting the fetus during the first trimester. It has also been hypothesized that hCG may be a placental link for the development of local maternal immunotolerance. For example, hCG-treated endometrial cells induce an increase in T cell apoptosis (dissolution of T cells). These results suggest that hCG may be a link in the development of peritrophoblastic immune tolerance, and may facilitate the trophoblast invasion, which is known to expedite fetal development in the endometrium. It has also been suggested that hCG levels are linked to the severity of morning sickness or Hyperemesis gravidarum in pregnant women.\n\nBecause of its similarity to LH, hCG can also be used clinically to induce ovulation in the ovaries as well as testosterone production in the testes. As the most abundant biological source is women who are presently pregnant, some organizations collect urine from pregnant women to extract hCG for use in fertility treatment.\n\nHuman chorionic gonadotropin also plays a role in cellular differentiation/proliferation and may activate apoptosis.\n\nNaturally, it is produced in the human placenta by the syncytiotrophoblast.\n\nLike any other gonadotropins, it can be extracted from the urine of pregnant women or produced from cultures of genetically modified cells using recombinant DNA technology.\n\nIn Pubergen, Pregnyl, Follutein, Profasi, Choragon and Novarel, it is extracted from the urine of pregnant women. In Ovidrel, it is produced with recombinant DNA technology.\n\nRegarding endogenous forms of hCG, there are various ways to categorize and measure them, including total hCG, C-terminal peptide total hCG, intact hCG, free β-subunit hCG, β-core fragment hCG, hyperglycosylated hCG, nicked hCG, alpha hCG, and pituitary hCG.\n\nRegular hCG is the main form of hCG associated with the majority of pregnancy and in non-invasive molar pregnancies. This is produced in the trophoblast cells of the placental tissue. Hyperglycosylated hCG is the main form of hCG during the implantation phase of pregnancy, with invasive molar pregnancies, and with choriocarcinoma.\n\nRegarding pharmaceutical preparations of hCG from animal or synthetic sources, there are many gonadotropin preparations, some of which are medically justified and others of which are of a quack nature.\n\nBlood or urine tests measure hCG. These can be pregnancy tests. hCG-positive indicates an implanted blastocyst and mammalian embryogenesis. These can be done to diagnose and monitor germ cell tumors and gestational trophoblastic diseases.\n\nConcentrations are commonly reported in thousandth international units per milliliter (mIU/ml). The international unit of hCG was originally established in 1938 and has been redefined in 1964 and in 1980. At the present time, 1 international unit is equal to approximately 2.35×10 moles, or about 6×10 grams.\n\nMost tests employ a monoclonal antibody, which is specific to the \"β-subunit\" of hCG (β-hCG). This procedure is employed to ensure that tests do not make false positives by confusing hCG with LH and FSH. (The latter two are always present at varying levels in the body, whereas the presence of hCG almost always indicates pregnancy.)\n\nMany hCG immunoassays are based on the sandwich principle, which uses antibodies to hCG labeled with an enzyme or a conventional or luminescent dye.\nPregnancy urine dipstick tests are based on the lateral flow technique.\n\n\nThe following is a list of serum hCG levels. (\"LMP\" is the last menstrual period dated from the first day of the last menstrual period.) The levels grow exponentially after conception and implantation.\n\nThe ability to quantitate the βhCG level is useful in the monitoring germ cell and trophoblastic tumors, follow-up care after miscarriage, and in diagnosis of and follow-up care after treatment of ectopic pregnancy. The lack of a visible fetus on vaginal ultrasound after the βhCG levels have reached 1500 mIU/ml is strongly indicative of an ectopic pregnancy. Still, even an hCG over 2000 IU/l does not necessarily exclude the presence of a viable intrauterine pregnancy in such cases.\n\nAs pregnancy tests, quantitative blood tests and the most sensitive urine tests usually detect hCG between 6 and 12 days after ovulation. It must be taken into account, however, that total hCG levels may vary in a very wide range within the first 4 weeks of gestation, leading to false results during this period. A rise of 35% over 48 hours is proposed as the minimal rise consistent with a viable intrauterine pregnancy.\n\nGestational trophoblastic disease like hydatidiform moles (\"molar pregnancy\") or choriocarcinoma may produce high levels of βhCG (due to the presence of syncytialtrophoblasts- part of the villi that make up the placenta) despite the absence of an embryo. This, as well as several other conditions, can lead to elevated hCG readings in the absence of pregnancy.\n\nhCG levels are also a component of the triple test, a screening test for certain fetal chromosomal abnormalities/birth defects.\n\nA study of 32 normal pregnancies came to the result a gestational sac of 1–3 mm was detected at a mean hCG level of 1150 IU/l (range 800-1500), a yolk sac was detected at a mean level of 6000 IU/l (range 4500-7500) and fetal heartbeat was visible at a mean hCG level of 10,000 IU/l (range 8650-12,200).\n\nHuman chorionic gonadotropin can be used as a tumor marker, as its β subunit is secreted by some cancers including seminoma, choriocarcinoma, germ cell tumors, hydatidiform mole, teratoma with elements of choriocarcinoma, and islet cell tumor. For this reason, a positive result in males can be a test for testicular cancer. The normal range for men is between 0-5 mIU/mL. Combined with alpha-fetoprotein, β-HCG is an excellent tumor marker for the monitoring of germ cell tumors. \n\nHuman chorionic gonadotropin injection is extensively used for final maturation induction in lieu of luteinizing hormone. In the presence of one or more mature ovarian follicles, ovulation can be triggered by the administration of HCG. As ovulation will happen between 38 and 40 hours after a single HCG injection, procedures can be scheduled to take advantage of this time sequence, such as intrauterine insemination or sexual intercourse. Also, patients that undergo IVF, in general, receive HCG to trigger the ovulation process, but have an oocyte retrieval performed at about 34 to 36 hours after injection by, a few hours before the eggs actually would be released from the ovary.\n\nAs HCG supports the corpus luteum, administration of HCG is used in certain circumstances to enhance the production of progesterone.\n\nIn the male, HCG injections are used to stimulate the Leydig cells to synthesize testosterone. The intratesticular testosterone is necessary for spermatogenesis from the sertoli cells. Typical uses for HCG in men include hypogonadism and fertility treatment.\n\nSeveral vaccines against human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) for the prevention of pregnancy are currently in clinical trials.\n\nIn the case of female patients who want to be treated with HCG Pubergen, Pregnyl:\na) Since infertile female patients who undergo medically assisted reproduction (especially those who need in vitro fertilization), are known to often be suffering from tubal abnormalities, after a treatment with this drug they might experience many more ectopic pregnancies. This is why early ultrasound confirmation at the beginning of a pregnancy (to see whether the pregnancy is intrauterine or not) is crucial. Pregnancies that have occurred after a treatment with this medicine are submitted to a higher risk of multiplets. Female patients who have thrombosis, severe obesity, or thrombophilia should not be prescribed this medicine as they have a higher risk of arterial or venous thromboembolic events after or during a treatment with HCG Pubergen, Pregnyl. b)Female patients who have been treated with this medicine are usually more prone to pregnancy losses.\n\nIn the case of male patients: A prolonged treatment with HCG Pubergen, Pregnyl is known to regularly lead to increased production of androgen. Therefore: Patients who are suffering from overt or latent cardiac failure, hypertension, renal dysfunction, migraines, or epilepsy might not be allowed to start using this medicine or may require a lower dose of HCG Pubergen, Pregnyl. Also this medicine should be used with extreme caution in the treatment of prepubescent teenagers in order to reduce the risk of precocious sexual development or premature epiphyseal closure. This type of patients' skeletal maturation should be closely and regularly monitored.\n\nBoth male and female patients who have the following medical conditions must not start a treatment with HCG Pubergen, Pregnyl: (1) Hypersensitivity to this medicine or to any of its main ingredients. (2) Known or possible androgen-dependent tumors for example male breast carcinoma or prostatic carcinoma.\n\nIn the world of performance-enhancing drugs, HCG is increasingly used in combination with various anabolic-androgenic steroid (AAS) cycles. As a result, HCG is included in some sports' illegal drug lists.\n\nWhen exogenous AAS are put into the male body, natural negative-feedback loops cause the body to shut down its own production of testosterone via shutdown of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis (HPGA). This causes testicular atrophy, among other things. HCG is commonly used during and after steroid cycles to maintain and restore testicular size as well as normal testosterone production.\n\nHigh levels of AASs, that mimic the body's natural testosterone, trigger the hypothalamus to shut down its production of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) from the hypothalamus. Without GnRH, the pituitary gland stops releasing luteinizing hormone (LH). LH normally travels from the pituitary via the blood stream to the testes, where it triggers the production and release of testosterone. Without LH, the testes shut down their production of testosterone. In males, HCG helps restore and maintain testosterone production in the testes by mimicking LH and triggering the production and release of testosterone.\n\nIf HCG is used for too long and in too high a dose, the resulting rise in natural testosterone and estrogen would eventually inhibit endogenous production of luteinizing hormone via negative feedback on the hypothalamus and pituitary gland.\n\nProfessional athletes who have tested positive for HCG have been temporarily banned from their sport, including a 50-game ban from MLB for Manny Ramirez in 2009 and a 4-game ban from the NFL for Brian Cushing for a positive urine test for HCG. Mixed Martial Arts fighter Dennis Siver was fined $19,800 and suspended 9 months for being tested positive after his bout at UFC 168.\n\nBritish endocrinologist Albert T. W. Simeons proposed HCG as an adjunct to an ultra-low-calorie weight-loss diet (fewer than 500 calories). Simeons, while studying pregnant women in India on a calorie-deficient diet, and \"fat boys\" with pituitary problems (Frölich's syndrome) treated with low-dose HCG, observed that both lost fat rather than lean (muscle) tissue. He reasoned that HCG must be programming the hypothalamus to do this in the former cases in order to protect the developing fetus by promoting mobilization and consumption of \"abnormal\", \"excessive\" adipose deposits. Simeons in 1954 published a book entitled \"Pounds and Inches\", designed to combat obesity. Simeons, practicing at Salvator Mundi International Hospital in Rome, Italy, recommended low-dose daily HCG injections (125 IU) in combination with a customized ultra-low-calorie (500 cal/day, high-protein, low-carbohydrate/fat) diet, which was supposed to result in a loss of adipose tissue without loss of lean tissue.\n\nOther researchers did not find the same results when attempting experiments to confirm Simeons' conclusions, and in 1976 in response to complaints the FDA required Simeons and others to include the following disclaimer on all advertisements:\n\nThere was a resurgence of interest in the \"HCG diet\" following promotion by Kevin Trudeau, who was banned from making HCG diet weight-loss claims by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission in 2008, and eventually jailed over such claims.<ref name=\"FTC 2008/10\">Kevin Trudeau Banned from Infomercials For Three Years, Ordered to Pay More Than $5 Million for False Claims About Weight-Loss Book; \"FTC v. Trudeau\" (7th Cir., 2009) 579 F.3d 754 remanded (N.D.Ill., 2010) 708 F.Supp.2d 711, affirmed (7th Cir. 2011) 662 F.3d 947, certiorari denied (Oct. 9, 2012) _U.S._, 133 S.Ct. 426, 184 L.Ed.2d 257; and a ten-year prison sentence for violating a court order, \"U.S. v. Trudeau\" (N.D.Ill., Jan. 29, 2014) 2014 u.s.dist. LEXIS 10717, 2014 WL 321373. And the article, \"The Curious Case of Kevin Trudeau, King Catch Me If You Can \" by Catherine Bryant Bell, Mississippi Law Journal, vol. 79 page 1043 (summer 2010), http://heinonline.org/HOL/Page?handle=hein.journals/mislj79&div=44&g_sent=1&collection=journals#1053.</ref>\n\nA 1976 study in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition concluded that HCG is not more effective as a weight-loss aid than dietary restriction alone.\n\nA 1995 meta analysis found that studies supporting HCG for weight loss were of poor methodological quality and concluded that \"there is no scientific evidence that HCG is effective in the treatment of obesity; it does not bring about weight-loss or fat-redistribution, nor does it reduce hunger or induce a feeling of well-being\".\n\nOn November 15, 2016, the American Medical Association (AMA) passed policy that \"The use of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) for weight loss is inappropriate.\"\n\nAccording to the American Society of Bariatric Physicians, no new clinical trials have been published since the definitive 1995 meta-analysis.\n\nThe scientific consensus is that any weight loss reported by individuals on an \"HCG diet\" may be attributed entirely to the fact that such diets prescribe calorie intake of between 500 and 1,000 calories per day, substantially below recommended levels for an adult, to the point that this may risk health effects associated with malnutrition.\n\nControversy about, and shortages of, injected HCG for weight loss have led to substantial Internet promotion of \"homeopathic HCG\" for weight control. The ingredients in these products are often obscure, but if prepared from true HCG via homeopathic dilution, they contain either no HCG at all or only trace amounts. Moreover, it is highly unlikely that oral HCG is bioavailable due to the fact that digestive protease enzymes and hepatic metabolism renders peptide-based molecules (such as insulin and human growth hormone) biologically inert. HCG can likely only enter the bloodstream through injection.\n\nThe United States Food and Drug Administration has stated that over-the-counter products containing HCG are fraudulent and ineffective for weight loss. They are also not protected as homeopathic drugs and have been deemed illegal substances. HCG is classified as a prescription drug in the United States and it has not been approved for over-the-counter sales by the FDA as a weight loss product or for any other purposes, and therefore neither HCG in its pure form nor any preparations containing HCG may be sold legally in the country except by prescription. In December 2011, FDA and FTC started to take actions to pull unapproved HCG products from the market. In the aftermath, some suppliers started to switch to \"hormone-free\" versions of their weight loss products, where the hormone is replaced with an unproven mixture of free amino acids or where radionics is used to transfer the \"energy\" to the final product.\n\nIn order to induce a stronger immune response, some versions of human chorionic gonadotropin-based anti-fertility vaccines were designed as conjugates of the β subunit of HCG covalently linked to tetanus toxoid. It has been alleged that a non-conjugated tetanus vaccine used in developing countries is laced with a human chorionic gonadotropin based anti-fertility drug and is distributed as a means of mass sterilization. This charge has been vigorously denied by the World Health Organization (WHO) and UNICEF. Others have argued that a hCG laced vaccine could not be used for sterilization since the effects of the anti-fertility vaccines are reversible (requiring booster doses to maintain immunity) and a non-conjugated vaccine is likely to be ineffective. Finally, independent testing of the tetanus vaccine by Kenya’s health authorities has revealed no traces of the human chorionic gonadotropin hormone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31096475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31096475", "title": "International Association of Transdisciplinary Psychology", "text": "International Association of Transdisciplinary Psychology\n\nThe International Association of Transdisciplinary Psychology is an international association of researchers, scholars, and thinkers who take a transdisciplinary approach to the study of psychology. They aim to \"describe...not what the human being is, but rather, what it is to be human.\"\n\nSince 2009, the association has published a peer reviewed journal, The Journal of the International Association of Transdisciplinary Psychology () annually.\n\n"}
{"id": "849145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=849145", "title": "Juan Ramón de la Fuente", "text": "Juan Ramón de la Fuente\n\nJuan Ramón de la Fuente Ramírez (born 5 September 1951 in Mexico City) is a Mexican psychiatrist, academician and politician who served as Secretary of Health in the cabinet of President Ernesto Zedillo (1994–1999) and as rector of the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) from 1999 to 2007. He is currently Professor at National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) and Chairs the Board of the \"Aspen Institute Mexico\".\n\nDe la Fuente graduated from Medical School Medicine from the National Autonomous University in 1976 and trained in Psychiatry Psychiatry at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, United States. When he returned to Mexico he founded the Clinical Research Unit of the Mexican Institute of Psychiatry and joined the Faculty of UNAM's School of Medicine, where he was appointed Dean in 1991. In 1995 He was also elected President of the Mexican Academy of Sciences and a few years later he was appointed Secretary of Health by President Zedillo. In 1999, he resigned to his cabinet post to be appointed Rector of the National Autonomous University of Mexico and in 2003 he was reappointed for a second term. In 2008 he was elected President of the International Association of Universities at UNESCO and was called by Ban Ki-moon to be member of the Council of the United Nations University in Tokyo. He sits in several boards in México and abroad, such as \"El Universal\", an influential newspaper in Mexico City. Also, in 2008 he was elected as President of the International Association of Universities.\n\nHe has written over two hundred papers and fourteen books, and has received numerous awards and honorary degrees such as the Distinguished Alumnus Award from the Mayo Clinic, the Presidential Award for Excellence of the University of Texas and a Doctorate on Humane Letters from Arizona State University, amongst many others. He also received from President Vicente Fox the National Prize for Arts and Sciences (Mexico), the highest recognition of Mexico’s Government. Dr. de la Fuente is one of the most respected figures in Mexican society.\n"}
{"id": "57689353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57689353", "title": "Learning health systems", "text": "Learning health systems\n\nLearning health systems (LHS) are healthcare systems in which knowledge generation processes are embedded in daily practice to produce continual improve in care.\n\nThe idea was first conceptualised in a 2007 workshop organised by the US Institute of Medicine, building on ideas around evidence-based medicine and \"practice-based evidence\". There has since been increasing interest in the topic, including the creation of the Wiley journal \"Learning Health Systems\".\n\nLHS can be described as having four key elements:\n\nThey are thus dependent on the use of electronic health records (EHRs) and have inherited the adoption challenges of EHRs. \n\nLHS entail a clinical lifecycle. Patient data is collected, it is amalgamated across multiple patients and a problem is defined. These are activities largely driven by healthcare professionals. With the support of technology, an analysis is performed, which returns evidence, from which knowledge is generated, which leads to changed clinical practice, and thus to new patient data being collected.\n\nMcLachlan and colleagues (2018) suggest a taxonomy of nine LHS classification types:\n"}
{"id": "18710375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18710375", "title": "Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry", "text": "Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry\n\nThe Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry () is a scientific institute based in the city of Munich in Germany specializing in psychiatry. Currently directed by Elisabeth Binder, Alon Chen and Martin Keck, it is one of the 81 institutes in the Max Planck Society.\n\nThe Institute was founded as the German Institute for Psychiatric Research () by King Ludwig III of Bavaria in Munich on February 13, 1917. The main force behind the institute was the psychiatrist Emil Kraepelin. Substantial funding was received from the Jewish-American banker James Loeb, as well as from the Rockefeller Foundation, well into the 1930s. The Institute became affiliated with the K. W. Society for the Advancement of Science () in 1924.\n\nIn 1928 a new building of the institute was opened at 2 Kraepelinstrasse. The building was financed primarily by a donation of $325,000 from the Rockefeller Foundation. Under the leadership of department heads Walther Spielmeyer, Ernst Rüdin, Felix Plaut, Kurt Schneider and Franz Jahnel, the Institute gained an international reputation as a leading institution for psychiatric research.\n\nRudin, a student of Kraepelin's, took over the directorship of the Institute in 1931, while also remaining head of genetics. As well as fostering an international scientific reputation, the Institute developed close ties with the Nazi regime. Rudin (along with Eugen Fischer of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute of Anthropology, Human Heredity, and Eugenics) joined expert government committees. Rudin wrote the official commentary endorsing the forced sterilization laws. He was such an avid proponent that colleagues nicknamed him the \"Reichsfuhrer for Sterilization\". Felix Plaut (in 1935) and Kurt Neubürger were dismissed from the Institute due to their Jewish origin. Copies of Rudin's lecture notes show that his teaching at the Institute was anti-semitic. The Institute received a great deal of government funding, which was openly designed to further the Nazi regime's aims. Some Institute funds seem to have gone on to support the work of Institute employee Julius Duessen with Carl Schneider at Heidelberg University, clinical research which from the beginning involving killing children.\n\nDuring the Second World War, the Institute's facilities sustained much damage. After the war, Rudin claimed he was just an academic, had only heard rumours of the killing of psychiatric patients at nearby asylums, and that he hated the Nazis. He was supported by former Institute colleague Josef Kallmann (a eugenicist himself) and famous quantum physicist Max Planck and released with a 500 mark fine.\n\nIn 1954 the Institute was incorporated into the Max Planck Society (as successive institution of the Kaiser-Wilhelm-Gesellschaft zur Förderung der Wissenschaften under maintenance of the foundation of 1917). The Institute was divided into an Institute of Brain Pathology and a Clinical Institute, both at 2 Kraepelinstrasse. Twelve years later in 1966, the Institute was renamed as the Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry. In the same year, a new research clinic was opened in Kraepelinstrasse 10.\n\nIn 1984 the theoretical part of the Institute moved to a new building in Martinsried, west of Munich. The Departments of Neurochemistry, Neuromorphology, Neuropharmacology and Neurophysiology were moved there. The Clinical Department, the Departments of Ethology and Psychology remained in Kraepelinstrasse. The independent Research Center of Psychopathology and Psychotherapy were closed.\n\nIn 1989 the Institute's building in Kraepelinstrasse was renovated and enlarged with the addition of a new laboratory wing.\n\nIn 1998 the theoretical part and the clinical part of the Institute segregated. The theoretical division of the Institute became the Max Planck Institute of Neurobiology and the clinical part kept the name \"Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry\".\n\nThe Institute is one of the leading research centers on psychiatry. Physicians, psychologists, and natural scientists conduct research on psychiatric and neurological disorders and on the development of diagnosis and treatment.\n\nMany patients participate in different clinical trails each year. Extensive phenotyping of the patients with analysis of blood and fluid samples, clinical psychopathology and neuropsychological testing, neurophysiological methods, neuroimaging techniques, and protein and gene analyses form the basis to investigate the causation of complex psychiatric and neurological diseases.\n\nThe concept of the Institute is based on a suitable balance between clinical and laboratory research. Research groups work on topics such as stress, anxiety, Posttraumatic stress disorder, depression, neurologic diseases, psychopharmacology, schizophrenia, sleep, and other topics.\n\nThe Institute consists of a 120-bed clinic equipped with laboratories for research on neuroendocrinology and sleep physiology, several special wards, a dayclinic for depression and psychiatry and various laboratories for cell and molecular biology.\n\nThe Institute provides medical service for psychiatric and neurological disorders. It has a hospital, dayclinic for depression and psychiatry and several outpatient clinics. The hospital consists of four psychiatric and one neurological ward with 120 beds. It treats about 2000 inpatients per year.\n\nThe Institute provides treatment for depression, anxiety disorder, schizophrenia, sleep disorders, dementia, multiple sclerosis, Morbus Parkinson, restless legs syndrome, and endocrine diseases.\n\nThe following are the primary heads of the institute's respective departments:\n\nScientific Directors\n\nHead of Clinic\n\nHead of Administration\n\n\n"}
{"id": "636280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=636280", "title": "Medical Research Council (United Kingdom)", "text": "Medical Research Council (United Kingdom)\n\nThe Medical Research Council (MRC) is responsible for co-coordinating and funding medical research in the United Kingdom. It is part of United Kingdom Research and Innovation (UKRI), which came into operation 1 April 2018, and brings together the UK’s seven research councils, Innovate UK and Research England. UK Research and Innovation is answerable to, although politically independent from, the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy. \n\nThe MRC focuses on high-impact research and has provided the financial support and scientific expertise behind a number of medical breakthroughs, including the development of penicillin and the discovery of the structure of DNA. Research funded by the MRC has produced 32 Nobel Prize winners to date.\n\nThe MRC was founded as the Medical Research Committee and Advisory Council in 1913, with its prime role being the distribution of medical research funds under the terms of the National Insurance Act 1911. This was a consequence of the recommendation of the Royal Commission on Tuberculosis, which recommended the creation of a permanent medical research body. The mandate was not limited to tuberculosis, however.\n\nIn 1920, it became the Medical Research \"Council\" under Royal Charter. A supplementary Charter was formally approved by the Queen on 17 July 2003. In March 1933, MRC established the first scientific published medical patrol named British Journal of Clinical Research and Educational Advanced Medicine, as a periodical publication intended to further the progress of science, usually by reporting new research. It contain articles that have been peer reviewed, in an attempt to ensure that articles meet the journal's standards of quality, and scientific validity, allow researchers to keep up to date with the developments of their field and direct their own research.\n\nIn August 2012, the creation of the MRC-NIHR Phenome Centre, a research centre for personalised medicine, was announced. The MRC-NIHR National Phenome Centre is based at Imperial College London and is a combination of inherited equipment from the anti-doping facilities used to test samples during the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games. and additional items from the Centre's technology partners Bruker and Waters Corporation. The Centre, led by Imperial College London and King's College London, is funded with two five-year grants of £5 million from the Medical Research Council and the National Institute for Health Research and was officially opened in June 2013.\n\nImportant work carried out under MRC auspices has included:\n\nScientists associated with the MRC have received a total of 32 Nobel Prizes, all in either \"Physiology or Medicine\" or \"Chemistry\"\n\nThe MRC is one of seven Research Councils and since 6 June 2009 has been answerable to, although politically independent from, the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy. In the past, the MRC has been answerable to the Office of Science and Innovation, part of the Department of Trade and Industry.\n\nThe MRC is governed by a council, which convenes every two months. Its Council, which directs and oversees corporate policy and science strategy, ensures that the MRC is effectively managed, and makes policy and spending decisions. Council members are drawn from industry, academia, government and the NHS. Members are appointed by the Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy. Daily management is in the hands of the Executive Chair. Members of the council also chair specialist boards on specific areas of research. For specific subjects, the council convenes committees.\n\nAs Chief Executive Officers (originally secretaries) served:\nMRC CEOs are normally automatically knighted.\n\n\nThe MRC has units, centres and institutes in the UK and one unit in each of The Gambia and Uganda.\n\nThe following is a list of the MRC's current institutes, centres and units:\n\nAberdeen\n\nBristol\n\nCambridge\n\nCardiff\n\nDundee\n\nEdinburgh\n\nEntebbe\n\nFajarra\n\nGlasgow\n\nHarwell\n\nLeicester\n\nLiverpool\n\nLondon\n\nNewcastle\n\nNottingham\n\nOxford\n\nSalisbury\n\nSouthampton\n\nMultiple across UK\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3075922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3075922", "title": "Mentadent", "text": "Mentadent\n\nMentadent is a brand name for a line of dental products manufactured by Unilever for its home and international markets excluding in the United States and Canada where the company sold its rights to the brand to Church & Dwight Company in 2003.\n\nIn 2016, Church & Dwight announced it would discontinue the Mentadent brand effective Spring 2017. As it only the rights for US and Canadian sales, this did not affect Unilever which still markets and sells Mentadent branded products in other markets.\n\nUnilever first introduced the brand around 1982.\n\nMentadent SR, formerly Gibbs SR, is one of three toothpaste products still marketed by Unilever worldwide. The product was originally named after its active ingredient, sodium ricinoleate.\n\nGibbs SR was the first product to be promoted on UK television. The introduction of commercial television advertising was due to the Television Act of 1954 which created the commercial broadcaster ITV. The advertisement was first shown on Associated-Rediffusion on 22 September, 1955 at 8.12pm BST, with a voiceover by Alex Macintosh. The advertisement was written and produced by Brian Palmer.\n\nUnilever make 3 varieties of toothpaste under the Mentadent brand\n\nIn 2003, Church & Dwight Company acquired the United States and Canadian rights to the Mentadent brand from Unilever and then operated it as a subsidiary brand of Arm & Hammer until it discontinued sales of the brand in 2016.\n\nMentadent is most notable for its unique toothpaste dispenser: a dual chamber pump. This design is intended to keep two ingredients separated until they are dispensed. Upon brushing, the ingredients will react with each other in the user's mouth. Both the toothpaste (formula) and the design of the pump were invented and then patented by Hans Schaeffer - who later sold the patent.\n\nIn the majority of its toothpaste lines, the two separate ingredients are baking soda and peroxide. Upon brushing, baking soda and peroxide combine to release oxygen bubbles. It is claimed that these bubbles will clean, whiten, and freshen the mouth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22918600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22918600", "title": "Miron Akimovich Ljubovsky", "text": "Miron Akimovich Ljubovsky\n\nMiron Akimovich Ljubovsky (1876–1952) was a Russian physician and one of the organizers of health care in Tver Oblast.\n\nLjubovsky received his training as a surgeon. He was the main organizer of the establishment of the Tver School for Nurses. The school was opened in 1920 with Ljubovsky as its head.\n\nMiron Ljubovsky earned the award . \n\nHe died on June 1, 1952 and is buried in Pervomayskoe graveyard in Tver near his wife Maria Antonovna Ljubovsky.\n"}
{"id": "19840648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19840648", "title": "Misericordia Community Hospital", "text": "Misericordia Community Hospital\n\nThe Misericordia Community Hospital is an acute care hospital located in west Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. The Misericordia is home to the Institute for Reconstructive Sciences in Medicine (iRSM), a facility for reconstruction of the face, head and neck.\n\nThe original Misericordia Hospital was established in 1900 by the Congregation of the Sisters of Misericorde, a religious congregation dedicated to nursing the poor and unwed mothers. The Sisters of Misericorde operated the hospital until the 1970s. The hospital is now part of Covenant Health, a Catholic health care provider operating 18 facilities across Alberta, in cooperation with Alberta Health Services.\n\nThe Misericordia Community Hospital offers a wide range of services.\n"}
{"id": "2221252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2221252", "title": "Monitoring in clinical trials", "text": "Monitoring in clinical trials\n\nClinical monitoring is the oversight and administrative efforts that monitor a participant's health and efficacy of the treatment during a clinical trial. Both independent and government-run grant-funding agencies, such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the World Health Organization (WHO), require data and safety monitoring protocols for Phase I and II clinical trials conforming to their standards.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's Center of Drug Evaluation and Research, the top five deficiency categories for site inspections caught by clinical monitors as reported in the 2001 Report to the Nation are:\n\nTherefore, the primary goal of clinical trial monitoring is to observe each trial site to ensure that the standardized operation procedures for the trial are being followed, reporting and managing any deviations from the investigation plan as they occur. Monitoring plans in the United States typically also require a clear protocol for reporting adverse/undesirable effects caused by the treatment to the institutional review board (IRB), the US Food & Drug Administration (FDA), and the institution funding the research. The FDA itself maintains an Adverse Event Reporting System for such occurrences in clinical trials it oversees in the United States.\n\nClinical monitors execute the monitoring plan laid out by the sponsors and investigators of a clinical trial. Monitors may be referred to by many different titles, such as: Clinical Research Associate, \"on-site\" monitor, Clinical Research Monitor, Study Site Monitor and Quality Specialist. The number of clinical monitors depends on the scale and scope of the trial.\n\nAlmost all field monitoring requires regular visits to the site by the clinical research associate throughout the period of the study. On occasion, an extremely simple, low-risk study might be monitored almost exclusively by telephone except for the startup and closeout visits. Since the concept of \"low risk\" is subjective, this definition should be established in internal policies and procedures.\n\nThe level of scrutiny of monitoring varies across studies based on risks and nature of the trial. \n\nConsiderations that affect the design of monitoring plans usually include:\nSeveral of these factors depend on the phase of the clinical trial--for example, in some early Phase I studies of drugs whose effects on different individuals are unknown, the monitor may be required to be present during all or part of a subject's treatment, while Phase II investigations usually involve multiple investigation sites.\n\nThe overall monitoring plan should remain fairly consistent, but the strategy for individual sites may change considerably during the course of the study depending on study conditions and site performance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4944089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4944089", "title": "NHS primary care trust", "text": "NHS primary care trust\n\nA primary care trust (PCT) was part of the National Health Service in England from 2001 to 2013. PCTs were largely administrative bodies, responsible for commissioning primary, community and secondary health services from providers. Until 31 May 2011 they also provided community health services directly. Collectively PCTs were responsible for spending around 80 per cent of the total NHS budget. Primary care trusts were abolished on 31 March 2013 as part of the Health and Social Care Act 2012, with their work taken over by clinical commissioning groups.\n\nIn 1997 the incoming Labour Government abolished GP Fundholding. In April 1999 they established 481 primary care groups in England \"thereby universalising fundholding while repudiating the concept.\" Primary and community health services were brought together in a single organisation controlling a unified budget for delivering health care to and improving the health of communities of about 100,000 people. A Primary Care Group was legally speaking a subcommittee of a District health authority. As part of the implementation of the NHS Plan 2000 PCGs were transformed into primary care trusts. 17 trusts were established in April 2000, a further 23 in October 2000, and 124 in April 2001 with a plan that all primary care groups would become trusts by 2004. This was said to be a break with the market culture of the previous government, replacing GP Fundholding with a corporate culture that emphasises partnership and collective responsibility.\n\nPCTs held their own budgets and set their own priorities, within the overriding priorities and budgets set by the relevant strategic health authority, and the Department of Health. They provided funding for general practitioners and medical prescriptions; they also commissioned hospital and mental health services from NHS provider trusts or from the private sector. Many PCTs used the naming style \"NHS\", followed by the geographical area, to make it easier for local people to understand the management of the NHS locally.\n\nPCTs were managed by a team of executive directors headed by a chief executive. These directors were members of the trust's board, together with non-executive directors appointed after open advertisement. The chairman of a trust was a non-executive director. Other board members included the chair of the trust's Professional Executive Committee (PEC) (elected from local general practitioners, community nurses, pharmacists, dentists etc.).\n\nThe financial budgets, and much of the agenda, of PCTs were effectively determined by directives from the strategic health authority (SHA) or the Department of Health.\n\nIn 2005 the Government announced that the number of strategic health authorities and primary care trusts would be reduced, the latter by about 50 per cent. The result was that, as of 1 October 2006, there were 152 PCTs (reduced from 303) in England, with an average population of just under 330,000 per trust. After these changes, about 70 per cent of PCTs were coterminous with local authorities having social service responsibilities, which facilitated joint planning.\n\nProviding responsibilities were gradually removed from PCTs under the Transforming Community Services initiative.\n\nOn 12 July 2010, Andrew Lansley unveiled a new health white paper (which eventually became law as the Health and Social Care Act 2012) describing significant structural changes to the NHS under the Conservative and Liberal Democrat coalition government. Among the changes announced, PCTs were to be abolished by 2013 with new GP-led commissioning consortia, clinical commissioning groups, taking on the responsibilities they formerly held. The public health aspects of PCT business would become the responsibility of local councils. Facilities owned by PCTs would transfer to NHS Property Services. Strategic health authorities would also be abolished under these plans. Following widespread criticism of the plans, on 4 April 2011, the Government announced a \"pause\" in the progress of the Health and Social Care Bill to allow the government to \"listen, reflect and improve\" the proposals.\n\nThe Health and Social Care Act 2012 received Royal Assent on 27 March 2012 and PCTs were formally abolished on 31 March 2013. Some of their staff were transferred to Commissioning Support Units, some to local authorities, some to clinical commissioning groups, some to NHS England and some were made redundant.\n\n"}
{"id": "7456199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7456199", "title": "Periapical cyst", "text": "Periapical cyst\n\nThe periapical cyst (also termed radicular cyst or inflammatory cyst) is the most common odontogenic cyst. Periapical is defined as \"the tissues surrounding the apex of the root of a tooth\" and a cyst is \"a pathological cavity lined by epithelium, having fluid or gaseous content that is not created by the accumulation of pus.\" Most frequently located in the maxillary anterior region, it is caused by pulpal necrosis secondary to dental caries or trauma. The cyst has lining that is derived from the epithelial cell rests of Malassez which proliferate to form the cyst. Highly common in the oral cavity, the periapical cyst is asymptomatic, but highly significant because a secondary infection can cause pain and damage. In radiographs, it appears a radiolucency (dark area) around the apex of a tooth's root.\n\nPeriapical cysts comprise approximately 75% of the types of cysts found in the oral region. The ratio of individuals diagnosed with periapical cysts is 3:2 male to female, as well as individuals between 20 and 60 years old. Periapical cysts occur worldwide.\n\nTypes of Periapical cysts:\n\nApical: 70%\n\nLateral: 20%\n\nResidual: 10%\n\nPeriapical cysts begin as asymptomatic and progress slowly. Subsequent infection of the cyst causes swelling and pain. Initially, the cyst swells to a round hard protrusion, but later on the body resorbs some of the cyst wall, leaving a softer accumulation of fluid underneath the mucous membrane.\n\nLarger cysts may cause bone expansion or displace roots. Discoloration of the affected tooth may also occur. Patient will present negative results to electric and ice test of the affected tooth but will be sensitive to percussion. Surrounding gingival tissue may experience lymphadenopathy. The alveolar plate may exhibit crepitus when palpated.\n\nPeriapical cysts exist in two structurally distinct classes:\n\nPeriapical true cysts - cysts containing cavities entirely surrounded in epithelial lining. Resolution of this type of cyst requires surgical treatment such as a cystectomy.\n\nPeriapical pocket cysts - epithelium lined cavities that have an opening to the root canal of the affected tooth. Resolution may occur after traditional root canal therapy.\n\nPeriapical cysts develop due to an inflammatory stimulus in 3 stages: \n\nThe definitive mechanism by which cysts grow is under debate; several theories exist.\n\nPressure and concentration differences between the cystic cavity and the growth surroundings influence fluid movement into the cyst, causing size increase.\n\na. Collagenase (breakdown of collagen) in the jaw bone leads to bone degeneration, providing room for cysts to develop. Substances released by the body's immune system as a result of the connective tissue breakdown, such as cytokines and growth factors, contribute to the mobilization and proliferation of epithelial cells in the area.\n\nb. Bone resorption caused by metabolism of acidic substances produced by cysts contributes to cyst growth. Such substances include Prostaglandin-2 and Interleukin-1 which are both produced by the cyst itself.\n\nEpithelial cells will form a mass inside the cavity and the innermost cells become deprived of nutrients because they are far from the source of nutrients (the blood vessels). The innermost cells die and form an aggregate of dead tissue. The inner cells undergo ischemic liquefactive necrosis which creates the cavity space surrounded by growing epithelial cells. This theory is unlikely in the absence of malignant transformation of epithelial cells as it does not follow the existing relationship between connective tissue and epithelium.\n\nEpithelial cells have an inherent quality to reproduce and cover any connective tissue that is not already lined with epithelia. Formation of an abscess must precede the epithelial proliferation in order for the cells to carry out this tendency. This theory explains why cysts are lined in epithelia but not why the initial cysts itself forms.\n\nSecondary symptoms of periapical cysts include inflammation and infection of the pulp causing dental caries. This infection is what causes necrosis of the pulp.\n\nExpansion of the cyst causes erosion of the floor of the maxillary sinus. As soon as it enters the maxillary antrum, the expansion rate increases due to available space for expansion. Performing a percussion test by tapping the affected teeth will cause shooting pain. This is often clinically diagnostic of pulpal infection.\n\nRadiographically, it is virtually impossible to differentiate granuloma from a cyst. If the lesion is large it is more likely to be a cyst. Radiographically, both granulomas and cysts appear radiolucent. Many lesions of the mandible in particular appear cystlike in appearance. It is often necessary to obtain a biopsy and evaluate the tissue under a microscope to accurately identify the lesion.\n\nDental cysts are usually caused due to root infection involving tooth decay. Untreated dental caries then allow bacteria to reach the level of the pulp, causing infection. The bacteria gains access to the periapical region of the tooth through deeper infection of the pulp, traveling through the roots. The resulting pulpal necrosis causes proliferation of epithelial rests of Malassez which release toxins at the apex of the tooth. The body's inflammatory response will attack the source of the toxins, leading to periapical inflammation. The many cells and proteins that rush to an area of infection create osmotic tension in the periapex which is the source of internal pressure increase at the cyst site.\n\nThese lesions can grow large because they apply pressure over the bone, causing resorption. The toxins released by the breakdown of granulation tissue are one of the common causes of bone resorption.\n\nThere are two schools of thought regarding cyst expansion.\n\nA non-vital tooth is necessary for the diagnosis of a periapical cyst, meaning the nerve has been removed by root canal therapy. Oral examination of the surrounding intraoral anatomical structures should be palpated to identify the presence of bone expansion or displacement of tooth roots as well as crepitus noises during examination, indicating extensive bone damage. Bulging of the buccal or lingual cortical plates may be present. Age of occurrence in the patient, the location of the cyst, the edges of cystic contours, and the impact that the cyst has on adjacent structures must all be considered for proper diagnosis.\n\nSeveral lesions can appear similarly in radiographic appearance. Intraoral X-rays or a 3-D cone beam scan of the affected area can be used to obtain radiological images and confirm diagnosis of cysts in the periapical area. Circular or ovoid radiolucency surrounding the root tip of approximately 1-1.5 cm in diameter is indicative of the presence of a periapical cyst. The border of the cyst is seen as a narrow opaque margin contiguous with the lamina dura. In cysts that are actively enlarging, peripheral areas of the margin may not be present. Periapical cysts have a characteristic unilocular shape on radiographs. There is also a severe border of cortication between the cyst and surrounding bone. Pseudocysts, on the other hand, have a fluid filled cavity but are not lined by epithelium, therefore they have a less severe and more blurred border between the fluid and bony surroundings.\n\nResorption of the roots of affected teeth may also be observed as the absence of portions of normal root structures.\n\nInfected cysts will produce a positive percussion test on the affected tooth as well as a negative response to the pulp test. There may also be visible swelling in the overlying soft tissues. The affected tooth may also exhibit discoloration.\n\nThe infected tissue of the periapical cyst must be entirely removed, including the epithelium of the cyst wall; otherwise, a relapse is likely to occur. Root canal treatment should be performed on the tooth if it is determined that previous therapy was unsuccessful. Removal of the necrotic pulp and the inflamed tissue as well as proper sealing of the canals and an appropriately fitting crown will allow the tooth to heal under uninfected conditions.\n\nSurgical options for previously treated teeth that would not benefit from root canal therapy include cystectomy and cystostomy. This route of treatment is recommended upon discovery of the cyst after inadequate root canal treatment. A cystectomy is the removal of a cyst followed by mucosa and wound closure to reduce chances of cyst regeneration. This type of treatment is more ideal for small cysts.\n\nA cystostomy is recommended for larger cysts that compromise important adjacent anatomy. The cyst is tamponaded to allow for the cyst contents to escape the bone. Over time, the cyst decreases in size and bone regenerates in the cavity space.\n\nMarsupialization could also be performed, which involves suturing the edges of the gingiva surrounding the cyst to remain open. The cyst then drains its contents and heal without being prematurely closed. The end result is the same as the cystostomy, bone regeneration. For both a cystostomy and marsupialization, root resectioning may also be required in cases where root resorption has occurred.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52190997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52190997", "title": "Public Law 114-214", "text": "Public Law 114-214\n\nPublic Law 114-216 is the federal law of the United States that regulates GMO food labeling. It was enacted on July 29, 2016 when President Obama signed then Senate Bill 764 (S.764). While the law is officially termed \"A bill to reauthorize and amend the National Sea Grant College Program Act, and for other purposes\", it evolved over time into \"the legislative vehicle for a measure concerning bioengineered food disclosure\". The bill was crafted by Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI). The \"GMO labeling bill\" was introduced by its sponsor, Sen. Roger F. Wicker (R-MS), cosponsored by Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and passed Senate and House in June 2016. The law overturned relevant state laws such as Vermont's GMO labeling law that had called for strict and transparent GMO food labeling in Vermont after July 1, 2016.\n\nLabeling of GMO food is mandated in at least 64 countries, including most European countries, China, Russia, Japan, Brazil, South Africa, and Australia.\n\nThe bill was created to \"establish a national bioengineered food disclosure standard\", whereby bioengineered food (commonly referred to as genetically modified organism or GMO food) is defined as \"food that has been genetically engineered in a way that could not be obtained through conventional breeding or found in nature\". It charges the U. S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to establish a national mandatory bioengineered food disclosure standard within two years with certain provisions:\nWhile the FDA is responsible for protecting and promoting public health through the control and supervision of food safety, the agency holds the position that \"the use of genetic engineering in the production of food does not present any safety concerns for such foods as a class\", and , as there is \"an absence of reliable data indicating safety concerns\" with GMO foods as a class, voiced no opposition for USDA having the responsibility of regulating GMO food labeling. The agency commented that the bill has language that may allow GMO material to escape labeling: the bill requires labeling if the food contains \"genetic material\", but that may exempt secondary products like oil, starches, sweeteners, or proteins derived from GMO substrates. The agency questioned the specificity of the definition of bioengineered food when it would not apply to GMOs that could also be achieved by 'conventional breeding\". The FDA has also voiced some concerns about food information being presented in electronic codes.\n\nAs the details of the law need to be worked out, USDA established a working group by September 2016 \"to develop a timeline for rulemaking and to ensure an open and transparent process for effectively establishing this new program, which will increase consumer confidence and understanding of the foods they buy, and avoid uncertainty for food companies and farmers\".\n\nPublic Law 114-216 was passed after previous attempts to introduce a national GMO labeling bill had failed. It was fast-tracked without debate or committee review. The original bill S. 764 - \"A bill to reauthorize and amend the National Sea Grant College Program Act, and for other purposes\" - had nothing to do with food and stalled after having passed the Senate. Hollowed out of its content it was replaced with a bill to defund Planned Parenthood. This bill was then replaced with a bill creating to outlaw state-level GMO labeling and setting a voluntary GMO labeling bill. When this bill failed, the S. 764 husk was used to rush through the present bill, just in time before the Vermont GMO food labeling requirement would have been activated on July 1.\n\nPrevious attempts to enact a national GMO labeling law included H. R. 1599 in 2015 – \"the Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act of 2015\". It was a proposed legislative amendment to the United States Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The act passed the House of Representatives on July 23, 2015 but failed in the Senate. An earlier version of the bill had been originally introduced as H. R. 4432 in 2004. and attempted to regulate food labeling specifically in view of the introduction of GMO food in the United States.\n\nKatie Hill, White House spokesperson, lauded the bill, \"(t)his measure will provide new opportunities for consumers to have access to information about their food\". Proponents have argued for a comprehensive labeling law that applies nationwide instead of a \"patchwork\" approach state-by-state. They also feel that a proposed bill will enhance agricultural biotechnology.\n\nProponents argue that approved GMO food has undergone extensive testing, is \"safe\" and that basically labeling is unnecessary. Labeling may discourage consumers to use GMO products when such a choice may be irrational. A lot of consumers express fears that have not been substantiated by science.\n\nThe bill is backed by Grocery Manufacturers Association, Monsanto, and other large food and beverage corporations.\n\nWhile GMOs are present in 75-80% of food Americans consume and have been termed \"substantially equivalent\" to the corresponding non-GMO foods by the FDA, consumers believe that they have a right to know what is in their food. Thus, a 2013 poll by the New York Times indicated that ninety-three percent of American consumers would like to know if their food has been genetically modified.\n\nThe primary objection to the bill is that manufacturers have the option to use electronic codes in lieu of clear readable labels placed directly on the food package, which they argue hides the information. The bill allows the use codes such as the QR code as a form of labeling, and opponents see this as impractical as well as discriminatory. They argue that, for instance, low-income families may not be able to access the information. Critics also oppose the fact that no fines or penalties are included when companies do not follow the law. Additionally, they are concerned that the bill's stipulation that labeling will be required when foods contain genetic material from genetic modification may exempt many of the highly processed foods and ingredients that are usually derived from genetically-modified crops (such as many seed oils, high-fructose corn syrup, and some refined starches and sweeteners), because such foods are often sufficiently refined that no genetic material remains in them. Senator Stabenow dismissed this interpretation when it was advanced by the FDA.\n\nBecause clear and accessible labeling is not mandated, some opponents have called this bill and its predecessors the \"DARK act\" as in \"Deny Americans the Right to Know\" or \"Keep Americans in the DARK\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8751221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8751221", "title": "Queen Elisabeth Medical Foundation", "text": "Queen Elisabeth Medical Foundation\n\n<BR>The Queen Elisabeth Medical Foundation (QEMF) is a Belgian non-profit organization, founded in 1926 by Elisabeth of Bavaria, wife of Albert I. She founded the organization, based on her experience with the wounded from the front-line during the First World War. The foundation wants to encourage laboratory research and contacts between researchers and clinical practitioners, with a particular focus on neurosciences. The QEMF supports seventeen university teams throughout Belgium.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20910485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20910485", "title": "Radiation and Public Health Project", "text": "Radiation and Public Health Project\n\nRadiation and Public Health Project is a nonprofit educational and scientific organization founded in 1985 by Jay M. Gould, a statistician and epidemiologist, and Ernest Sternglass. The \"shoestring organization\" with \"offices mainly on [Joseph J. Mangano's] kitchen table\" was established to examine the relationships between low-level nuclear radiation and public health and question the safety of nuclear power.\n\nAs of November 2010, Radiation and Public Health Project members have published 27 medical journal articles on health risks from radioactive exposures to nuclear reactors and weapons tests. RPHP studies have claimed elevated rates of childhood, thyroid, and other cancers near reactors.\n\nAccording to a 2003 article in \"The New York Times\", the group's work has been controversial, and had little credibility with the scientific establishment. Similarly the work of the Radiation and Public Health Project has been criticized by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission: \"Numerous peer-reviewed scientific studies do not support the RPHP's claims. NRC finds there is little or no credibility in the RHP's studies\". In an April 2014 article in Popular Science, Sarah Epstein referred to the group's work as \"junk science\" and disputed the group's peer-reviewed publications as being insufficiently evaluated.\nA set of 85,000 teeth that had been collected by Dr. Louise Reiss and her colleagues as part of the Baby Tooth Survey were uncovered in 2001 and given to the Radiation and Public health Project. By tracking the individuals who had participated in the tooth-collection project, the RHPR published results in a 2010 issue of the \"International Journal of Health Service\" that claimed that those children who later died of cancer before the age of 50 had levels of strontium 90 in their stored baby teeth that was twice the level of those who were still alive at 50. This paper was criticized by Stephen Musolino, a health physicist and specialist in radiation protection at Brookhaven National Laboratory, as it \"confuses correlation with causation\" and in their opinion the authors of the paper are \"ice-cream epidemiologists\".\n\nRPHP studied 5,000 baby teeth, the results of which were published in 5 medical journal articles. High and rising levels of strontium-90 in baby teeth were found near reactors.\n\nThe National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Nuclear Regulatory Commission and nuclear industry groups responded with statements that the study was flawed. The groups stated that the study suffered from small sample sizes; no control populations; no other cancer risk factors considered; no environmental sampling and analysis; cherry picking of data to fit the conclusion; and an incorrect half-life used for strontium-90. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has not changed its opinion that there is no excess cancer risk from living near nuclear facilities.\n\nThis study was published in a 2008 issue of the \"European Journal of Cancer Care\". It disputes a large scale analysis conducted by the National Cancer Institute in the late 1980s. Mangano and Sherman's study found that leukemia death rates in U.S. children near nuclear reactors rose sharply (vs. the national trend) in the past two decades. The greatest mortality increases occurred near the oldest nuclear plants, while declines were observed near plants that closed permanently in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nOther studies in the US and UK have shown \"decreases\" in cancer incidence in the vicinity of nuclear power plants after they have started operating.\n\nAfter the Fukushima disaster, Mangano and Sherman published several articles claiming detrimental health effects in America caused by fallout from Japan:\n\nIn a June 2011 article in CounterPunch, they claimed a 35% increase in infant mortality on the West coast of the United States in the 10 weeks after the disaster, vs the 4 weeks prior. Michael Moyer of Scientific American stated that their claims are \"critically flawed—if not deliberate mistruths\", pointing out that this increase only appears when choosing these specific time periods, and there is no trend in the overall numbers for the year.\n\nIn January 2012, they claimed that fallout from Fukushima resulted in 13,983 excess deaths in the United States in the 14 weeks following the disaster. This study was criticized for including different numbers of cities in the \"before\" and \"after\" categories, for cities with \"more\" fallout being reported as having \"fewer\" deaths, and for there being no plausible mechanism by which very small amounts of radiation could result in immediate death.\n\nIn a March 2013 article, published in the \"Open Journal of Pedriatrics\", they claimed a 16% increase in cases of congenital hypothyroidism (CH) in 5 US states in the 10 months following the disaster. This study was criticized for again creating a \"trend\" out of random statistical variation and using incorrect definitions of CH based only on TSH scores. The publisher of the journal the paper appeared in, Scientific Research Publishing, has been accused of being a predatory open access publisher.\n\n"}
{"id": "32553497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32553497", "title": "Rebecca J. Keck", "text": "Rebecca J. Keck\n\nDr. Rebecca J. Keck (1838–1904), was a 19th-century woman physician and patent medicine entrepreneur and one of the wealthiest independent businesswomen in the Midwest.\n\nThe oldest daughter in a large Pennsylvania Dutch pioneer farming family, Rebecca Keck (née Ilgenfritz, sometimes spelled Ilginfritz) was born in Wooster, Wayne County, Ohio in 1838. She moved with her parents to Fairfield, Iowa at the age of thirteen, where she may have completed schooling as far as the eighth grade. In 1857, she married John Conrad Keck, a merchant and mechanic newly arrived in Fairfield from Northampton County, Pennsylvania.\n\nThree of Rebecca's brothers died of tuberculosis between 1857 and 1869; while she was nursing them through their illnesses, she also gave birth to six children (five girls and a boy) and began to develop a reputation among her neighbors as an herbalist. During this time, her husband built up a substantial farm equipment and foundry business.\n\nFollowing the national banking Panic of 1873, Mr. Keck's foundry business collapsed and the couple began to collect herbs and brew her remedies together, which Rebecca Keck started to sell door to door. Seeking a wider market, in November, 1873, she took out her first advertisement for \"Keck's Catarrhochesis\" in Dubuque. Success came very quickly; within three years she was advertising her \"Catarrh Cure\" heavily in a number of newspapers including the \"Dubuque Herald\", the \"Davenport Gazette\" and the \"Chicago Times\" and \"Chicago Tribune\".\n\nBesides selling her remedies by mail order, she practiced as an \"itinerant physician,\" a common business model for the frontier, because sick people were scattered across long distances and lacked regular access to medical care. She would rent rooms in a local hotel or storefront for visits of two days to two weeks, and take out large advertisements in advance to advise her customers of her upcoming personal consultations. She traveled her entire circuit every two months, so that patients could see her for follow-up treatment. At its height, her practice served between 12,000 and 15,000 patients, and she would typically see 350 patients per week.\n\nMrs. Dr. Keck moved her family to Davenport, Iowa, on the Mississippi River, in 1875 as her business expanded. As was common for Midwestern women physicians in her day, she used both Dr & Mrs so that her married and professional status could both be understood by the public. She only treated chronic conditions and according to the testimonial letters she published in her advertising, the majority of her customers were working people and farm families who could not afford the high cost of private doctors' fees and who received her medical remedies and treatment advice by mail order.\n\nRebecca Keck considered herself to be a fully qualified physician by virtue of her long years of experience treating her family, neighbors and public customers. She owned a large medical library and advertised herself as an Eclectic practitioner. The Eclectic School of medicine, which grew out of the sectarian medical reform movements of the 1830s, was an active and publicly accepted school of medicine in the mid 19th century in the Midwest that competed with homeopathy and allopathic (or regular, scientific) medical approaches. Eclectic treatments combined an emphasis on botanical remedies with a willingness to use regular medical techniques in certain cases.\n\nThere is no evidence that Rebecca Keck ever graduated from an Eclectic medical school although most of them were open to women by the 1870s. She did not enroll for regular medical training at the University of Iowa's new medical school which opened for men and women in 1871. Either she could not afford the time and money required (because of her six children and her family's bankruptcy in 1873) or she did not consider a professional degree to be necessary for her practice as a physician.\n\nWith the exception of Lydia Pinkham, Mrs. Dr. Keck appears to be the only woman to have earned substantial wealth on her own behalf in the lucrative but highly competitive and bruising profession of selling patent medicine in 19th century America. Like Mrs. Pinkham, Mrs. Dr. Keck began her career because of family bankruptcy caused by the Panic of 1873. Unlike Mrs. Pinkham, Rebecca Keck not only believed herself to be a practicing physician, but became the top executive of the family's business and ran it herself, with the assistance of her two oldest daughters, Belle Alexander and Charlotte Dorn, while her husband played only a peripheral role and her only son contributed even less to the operations.\n\nIt is difficult to know Mrs. Dr. Keck's exact income, but she was able to purchase her infirmary in 1879 for $12,000 in cash, and at the time of her death, her life insurance payout of $15,520 was one of the largest made in the United States for the week of May 17, 1905.\n\nWhile extremely unpopular with members of the medical establishment in Iowa and Illinois, Rebecca Keck enjoyed glowing front page editorial endorsements from newspapers in the cities where she practiced. Some newspapers ran her illustrated, full-column ads on the front page under the heading, \"Mrs. Dr. Keck's Column.\" The \"Decatur Review\" declared on November 15, 1883, \"We have a marked example among us of success in medicine, in the person of Mrs. Dr. Keck, well-known in the West,\" while the \"Bloomington Pantagraph\" declared on August 30, 1883 that Mrs. Dr. Keck \"absorbs considerable public attention and is a subject for congratulation among the women of America…a forcible illustration of the ability of women to succeed\" in \"avenues of professional or public life.\" The \"Quincy Whig\" said she was \"one of our longest established and best known physicians,\" while the \"Evening Peorian\" referred to her \"celebrity as a physician and good name as a citizen.\" The \"Peoria National Democrat\" declared, \"her success is unprecedented…she is capable of doing the work of five ordinary women.\"\n\nThe regular medical establishment disagreed. The secretary of the Illinois State Board of Health, Dr. John Rauch was quoted in the \"Chicago Tribune\" as saying that Mrs. Dr. Keck was \"foul and damnable in every way,\" and mostly male members of county medical associations were hardly less kind; Dr. James Clarke M.D. of Fairfield averred that the sale of her catarrh cures \"made the doctor wealthy, even if it did not cure her patients.\" Regular doctors universally dismissed her as a quack, and her name was excluded from the physicians and surgeons listing in the Davenport business directories every year after 1878, although she continued to describe herself as a specialist and physician in the regular alphabetical listings and bought the entire back cover of the 1882 edition to advertise her infirmary.\n\nThe state of Illinois passed its Medical Practices Act in 1877 in an effort to exert some control of the wholly unregulated medical profession in the state. This Illinois law was a landmark in health law in the United States, leading the way towards improved standards for the dismal state of medical licensing and medical education in the country at that time. The act defined requirements for a physician's license that were extremely loose by modern standards, but which were sufficient to expel thousands of untrained and unqualified physicians and quacks from the state during the first year after it was passed. Popular opposition to this measure was strong, and outraged citizens complained that a law requiring doctors to obtain a license to practice medicine was \"an opening wedge for socialized medicine\" in the state.\n\nMrs. Dr. Keck refused to stop treating her patients in Illinois and quickly emerged as one of the most formidable opponents to the state's legal reform effort. As she pushed back against the new governmental regulations, Mrs. Dr. Keck became locked in a highly publicized, adversarial relationship with the secretary of the new Illinois State Board of Health, Dr. John H. Rauch M.D., that lasted for at least a decade. When local doctors tried to block Mrs. Dr. Keck from practicing in McLean County, Illinois in early 1878, the \"Bloomington Daily Leader\" called hers the first test case of the new legislation, \"the beginning of a long and tedious litigation\" between the \"regulars\" and the \"irregulars.\" The lasting stigma of these accusations was probably an important reason why her accomplishments faded quickly and completely from public view after her death, and her career remains little known today.\n\nCriminal charges were brought against Mrs. Dr. Keck in at least five different counties in Illinois for practicing medicine without a license between 1878 and 1889, but she was ably defended by her lawyer W. S. McCoy and persisted in business in McLean, Logan, Champaign, Peoria and Adams counties in Illinois for twenty years. Iowa's medical legislation had even less effect on her business, and she opened Mrs. Dr. Keck's Infirmary for All Chronic Diseases in Davenport in 1879, practicing with uninterrupted financial success there and in Cedar Rapids, Dubuque and rural communities in Iowa until she retired in 1900.\n\nOver the years, Mrs. Dr. Keck grew more and more boastful of her ability to cure many types of chronic diseases, including tuberculosis, an obviously impossible task in an era before the bacillus that caused the disease had even been identified. Grateful patients wrote to her when they were cured of chronic lung infections, piles, eczema, general debility, deafness and a host of other issues, and she published their testimonial letters in her advertisements.,\n\nFraudulent testimonial letters were a common feature of 19th century patent medicine advertising. Nevertheless, United States Census records from 1880 show that many of these people actually existed as presented in print by Mrs. Dr. Keck. However, in over a thousand ads that survive to be studied today, less than a hundred different individuals are named, and there is no way to verify the facts presented about their illnesses, particularly the accuracy of the diagnoses, and there is no way to know for sure what percentage of her thousands of other patients did and did not get cured.\n\nRegular allopathic medical practice during the 1870s and 1880s often involved \"heroic\" treatments with harsh, mineral medications containing lead, mercury (calomel) and arsenic, as well as toxic vegetable compounds containing strychnine, castor oil (derived from ricin), belladonna and other poisonous substances we would consider extremely dangerous today. Clumsy, unsanitary surgical procedures were also common, so it is not impossible that Mrs. Dr. Keck's herbal tonics and sensible nursing advice were actually better for her patients than the regular doctors' remedies in some cases.\n\nIt is unlikely that Mrs. Dr. Keck ever hurt anyone. Alert opponents in the medical profession would have been quick to pounce on any provable instance if she had ever actually harmed a patient with her treatments. While a number of outright quacks were taken to court by angry patients seeking reparations for botched treatments in Davenport during the years she practiced, no such accusation against Mrs. Dr. Keck shows up in the public record.\n\nThe only parties who sued her during her career were male doctors with M.D. credentials. In every instance, they were seeking to solidify institutional boundaries for their evolving practice of allopathic or scientific medicine by first preventing her from getting a license and second by preventing her from practicing medicine without one. No evidence that she harmed a patient was ever produced in any of these cases.\n\n"}
{"id": "20995276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20995276", "title": "Right atrial pressure", "text": "Right atrial pressure\n\nRight atrial pressure (RAP) is the blood pressure in the right atrium of the heart. RAP reflects the amount of blood returning to the heart and the ability of the heart to pump the blood into the arterial system. RAP is often nearly identical to central venous pressure (CVP), although the two terms are not identical, as a pressure differential can sometimes exist between the venae cavae and the right atrium. CVP and RAP can differ when venous tone (i.e the degree of venous constriction) is altered. This can be graphically depicted as changes in the slope of the venous return plotted against right atrial pressure (where central venous pressure increases, but right atrial pressure stays the same; VR = CVP − RAP).\n\nFactors that increase RAP include:\n\nFactors that decrease RAP include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27555238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27555238", "title": "Smoking in Syria", "text": "Smoking in Syria\n\nSmoking in Syria is steadily increasing in popularity amongst the Syrian population, mainly in the forms of cigarettes or Narghiles. In Syria, the General Organization of Tobacco manages the growth and exportation of tobacco products. Syrians collectively spend about $600 million per year on tobacco consumption. As of 2010, 20% of women and 60% of men smoke and 98% of the overall population is affected by passive smoking. Narghiles (also known as the hookah or water pipe) and cigarettes are the two main forms of tobacco consumption. Despite the assumption that smoking, specifically the narghile, is embedded in Syrian culture, this phenomenon has only recently become widespread. Health officials are currently working on smoking cessation programs and policies, to remove this idea that smoking in Syria is an essential part of the culture, to educate regarding health effects, and to prevent citizens from smoking in public places.\n\nThe factual history of smoking in Syria is uncertain. Cannabis was common in the Middle East before the arrival of tobacco, and is known to have existed in at least 2000 BC. Tobacco use in the middle east dates back to the 16th century. Narghile use is likely to have been a longstanding middle eastern tradition but may not have been considered a Syrian staple until the narghile’s popularity boom in the 1990s.\n\nNarghile smoking is currently perceived as an important cultural feature of Syria, most notably in the city of Aleppo, while cigarette smoking is perceived as a mundane activity with little importance to cultural life. Despite the perception of Narghile being a staple of Syrian culture, Bisher Daaboul of the Syrian Society for Smoking Cessation notes that Narghiles have only been popular since the 1990s and “are not a tradition here in Syria that we have to live with and we have to protect.” \n\nAlthough Islam has no specific ban on smoking tobacco, several Islamic principles are cited in support of the religion-based banning of tobacco. Depending on the location and community, Islamic authorities have either deemed smoking as \"Makruh\" (to be avoided) or \"Haram\" (forbidden).\n\nThe Fatwa Higher Council of Syria recently reiterated the importance of the 2007 \"fatwa\" (Islamic legal pronouncement), issued by Syria’s Grand Mufti Ahmad Badruddin Hassoun prohibiting every type of smoking, including cigarettes and narghile, as well as the selling and buying of tobacco and any affiliation with tobacco distribution.\n\nThe ruling’s justification is based on the view that smoking is a slow way of committing suicide, which is strictly prohibited in the Islamic faith. The connection to suicide is in reaction to the increasing spread of the knowledge of tobacco’s detrimental and potentially fatal health effects.\n\nNarghile smokers generally start smoking in their early 20s as they find that the activity produces a sense of togetherness among friends and facilitates an enjoyable social situation.\n\nThe increasing prevalence of tobacco smoke in the form of the Narghile can be attributed to a variety of factors. French anthropologist Kamel Chaoucachi has isolated the three main elements of the narghile’s appeal, which include “passing of the smoking hose, conversation of the actors, and the nature of time within the created situation.” These factors highlight the social benefits of smoking the Narghile and the general increase in trendiness of the experience.\n\nBoth smokers and non-smokers in Syria acknowledge that smell and taste are noteworthy appealing factors of the narghile. This mention of the narghile’s sensory appeal signifies the importance of the introduction of \"Maasel\", a specially prepared fruit-flavored tobacco, in replacement of \"Ajami\", a raw unflavored tobacco, in regard to the growing popularity of the narghile. The spread of Maasel in the 1990s produced a surge in popularity for narghile smoking. In addition to providing the pleasing aroma and taste, Maasel also simplifies the process of narghile preparation in comparison to the more complex process of preparing the traditional Ajami.\n\nAdditional contributing factors to the spread of narghile use include free time and boredom of Syrian youth, social pressures, euphoric feeling after inhalation, aesthetic appeal of the narghile itself, smoking as a replacement for alcohol, widespread availability of the narghile in cafes and restaurants, and glamorization and commercialization of the practice in the media.\n\nSyrian cigarette smokers tend to start smoking in their teens, either in school, amongst family members, or (for males) in military service. Cigarettes are mainly perceived as a means of stress management, coping, relaxation, and improvement in concentration.\nIn contrast to the positive view of smoking the Narghile, Syrian smokers tend to view cigarette smoking as a “mundane, oppressive, personal addiction.” \n\nA main appeal for teenage males is the sense of manliness that is associated with smoking cigarettes, while a main appeal for females of all ages is the associated sense of social liberalization. Other motivations stem from curiosity and general social pressures. Cigarette smokers acknowledge that many of the social pressures that initially prompted them to smoke have long faded but that they continue to smoke because of their addiction.\n\nCigarette smokers perceive their habits as a clear addiction. Symptoms including cravings, inability to reduce tobacco consumption, and withdrawal symptoms when attempting to quit.\n\nAlthough habitual Narghile smokers are less likely than cigarette smokers to perceive their habit as an addiction, many report steadily increasing frequency and intensity of narghile use, difficulty quitting, and withdrawal symptoms when attempting to quit.\n\nNarghile addiction tends to be more context dependent, as many who smoke it only crave it around friends or in the typical Narghile café setting. Cigarette smoking is a more personal pursuit, and desire to smoke is therefore constant regardless of the context.\n\nCigarette smokers generally believe that cigarettes are harmful to their own health and the health of the people around them. Cigarettes smokers are especially cognizant of the effects of second hand smoke on their family members. \nNarghile smokers are generally less cognizant of the narghile’s health effects on themselves and the people around them.\n\nAnthropologists hypothesize that the Syrian public considers narghile smoke to be less dangerous than cigarette smoke due to the perceived “filtration” process that occurs as the tobacco passes through water before it gets inhaled. This hypothesis has become less popular following increasing prevalence of surveying and research, which show that Syrian narghile smokers are aware that water is not a reliable means of filtration. The social atmosphere and positive connotation of smoking the narghile is likely to overshadow the health concerns and make it ultimately seem less harmful than smoking cigarettes.\n\nAlthough specifics of the health hazards of tobacco use are not widely known, Syrian students tend to generally associate smoking the narghile with an increased risk in respiratory disease while mainly associating smoking cigarettes with an increased risk of cancer.\n\nDespite the prevalence of cigarette smoking in Syrian society, there is still a sense of embarrassment attached to cigarette smoking, most notably in regard to the resulting odor it produces. This lack of social acceptance of cigarette smoking is relatively new and can be viewed as a positive progression within Syrian society.\n\nNarghile smoking, however, is generally socially acceptable. Tensions can sometimes arise between non-smoking parents and smoking children as well as between smokers and non smokers within groups of friends. Narghile smoking can sometimes cause smokers to only spend recreation time with other smokers.\n\nMales in Syria smoke more than females and have a higher daily consumption rate of cigarettes. Among a sampling of Syrian professionals, smoking male schoolteachers and physicians consume about one pack per day whereas smoking female schoolteachers and physicians consume about half a pack per day. Men are more likely to be dependent on nicotine; according to surveys where dependence is measured by what time a cigarette is first smoked in the morning.\n\nWomen in Syria and across the entire Middle East are becoming increasingly vulnerable to the tobacco epidemic. In the past, Middle Eastern social customs deterred women from smoking tobacco in any form. Narghile smoking, however, is now a more acceptable activity for Syrian women and is seen as an indicator of increased socio-economic liberalization.\n\nAbiding by traditions and cultural norms is a more popular reason for not smoking than that of health related concerns, religion, personal conviction, or economic reasons. The increased prevalence of tobacco use amongst Syrian women can therefore be seen in a positive light as it signifies increasing freedom for women in a generally male-dominated society. However, this development also brings about a new target group for tobacco companies and furthers the potential for the spread of the tobacco epidemic.\n\nCigarette use by Syrian women is still largely considered to be socially unacceptable.\n\nNon-Arabs, women from urban populations, women from smaller households, and women married to non-relatives are more likely to be smokers of narghile and cigarettes than their counterparts. Christians are more likely to be smokers than Muslims, and women working for pay are more likely to smoke than those that are unemployed. Sign of the tobacco epidemic spreading to women in poorer levels of society are particularly alarming, as this is the most unlikely sector of the population to be affected.\n\nMale smoking rates increase from 16% in adolescents (up to 18 years of age) to 60% in adults. The age group among educated males with the steepest rise in smoking levels is from 19 to 21 years old.\n\nMost habitual smokers in Syria are from lower and middle socioeconomic classes. One reason for this general trend is the tendency of Syrians males from lower socioeconomic levels to join the army rather than attend university. In 2002, smoking rates among military recruits were about 46% while the rates of age-matched university students were about 23%. Poorer students and/or those with poorer academic performance are more likely to join the military than to go to university and are thereby more likely to habitually smoke. In this case, those from a less favorable socio-economic background end up more vulnerable to nicotine dependency.\n\nOther cases indicate increased tobacco dependency with heightened levels of financial security. Male physicians in Syria are likely to become nicotine dependent earlier in their careers, whereas female physicians tend to habitually smoke later on in their careers. This trend is likely to be due to delayed financial independence for women.\n\nSmokers in Syria tend to evolve from switching brands in early stages of smoking to sticking with one brand as their dependency increases.\n\nAmongst adult nicotine-dependent smokers, brand selection is closely related to one’s socio-economic situation, as foreign brands tend to be double the price of local brands.\n\n90% of smoking high school students smoke foreign brands, as they smoke fewer cigarettes on average than adult habitual smokers. The less frequent amount of smoking amongst high school students makes foreign cigarettes less of a financial burden.\nForeign brands are viewed amongst Syrian smokers as lighter, safer, and better tasting, a belief that is derived from advertising strategies rather than the actual characteristics of foreign brands.\n\nCigarette smokers tend to have a strong desire to quit due to health concerns, stigmatization, and concern for the safety of their family members. Quitting attempts are generally followed by relapse.\n\nShort periods of quitting allow smokers to experience the benefits of quitting such as better breathing ability, increased happiness amongst family members, and increased stamina, but subsequent relapses tend to reduce the smoker’s confidence in their ability to fully quit, and therefore reduce their motivation to quit despite their experience of the positive effects of quitting.\n\nRelapses tend to be attributed to stressful situations and having friend groups that smoke. Relapses are also caused by cigarette smokers’ use of the narghile as a means of easing off of cigarettes, which ends up proliferating their dependence.\n\nSome cigarette smokers do not have serious intentions to quit and others do not plan to quit at all, but the majority of cigarette smokers have interest in qutting.\n\nAbout a third of narghile smokers express motivation to quit. Some narghile smokers who are uninterested in quitting express enthusiasm about continuing their smoking habits in the future.\n\nMany cigarette smokers indicate that they are waiting for a health incident to motivate them to quit.\n\nThe method of price increase is likely to have a great impact on tobacco usage, due to the price-sensitivity of most habitual smokers.\nA World Bank report in 2002 suggested that a 10% additional tax on local brands would be capable of cutting consumption by 5% and generating a revenue increase of 4.5%.\n\nPrice increases on local brands of cigarettes are unlikely to increase illegal smuggling of foreign brands into Syria, as foreign brands are typically only bought by wealthier habitual smokers or irregular smokers. The majority smoking population (low-income habitual smokers) is therefore unlikely to supplement higher priced local brands with smuggled in foreign brands.\n\nSmoking cessation programs are essential to those seeking to quit, as medical literature suggests that less than 5% of quitters abstain from cigarettes permanently when quitting without external sources of support.\n\nThe majority of health care providers are currently not trained to provide adequate cessation support, so the implementation of training programs is an important step in this method of control.\n\nMedia campaigns are a viable means of spreading knowledge to the public of the health effects of smoking. This is especially important in relation to narghile smoking, as its positive cultural perception is a large factor in its increasing popularity.\n\nAge restriction is valuable as many cigarette smokers begin smoking in their teens due to social pressures. Lessening the availability of cigarettes to this age group may decrease chances of the development of a nicotine addiction.\n\nTradition has been the main barrier keeping women from smoking and this barrier is slowly breaking down. Public health efforts are focusing on replacing the passive barrier of tradition with an active barrier, such as awareness of negative health effects. Negative values of smoking have yet to be dissociated from the positive values of increasing economic and social freedoms for women.\n\nOne of the main obstacles for initiatives to curtail the tobacco epidemic in Syria is the shortage of reliable standardized data on tobacco use in Syrian society. The first published initiative to study the epidemiology of smoking in Syria began in 1998.\n\nAnother primary issue involves the Syrian medical industry and its health care providers. According to a sampling of Aleppo health care professionals in 2010, 22.4% of physicians and 26% of nurses smoke cigarettes and 9.5% of physicians and 9.4% of nurses smoke the narghile. Health care providers who smoke are less likely to believe that smoking is harmful and acknowledge the specific health impacts of smoking than those who do not smoke.\n\nOnly half of physicians included in the 2010 study routinely inquire about their patient’s smoking habits, and of those, only 47.7% of those assist patients in quitting and only 11.6% encourage the scheduling of follow-up appointments for continued assistance. Only 5.3% of physicians reported to have prescribed medicine to aid in smoking cessation.\n\nPhysicians note that the main obstacles for public health initiatives include lack of motivation amongst patients, lack of time, scarcity of medication, and lack of experience. Health care providers who smoke are also generally less motivated to promote cessation efforts due to their own smoking habits.\n\nTwo notable organizations are the Syrian Society for Smoking Cessation and the Syrian Center for Tobacco studies, both of which are affiliated with the World Health Organization.\n\nThe Syrian Society for Smoking Cessation is “a local association in Syria that was established on 22/02/2006 to support WHO and MOH efforts to control this huge problem. The main goal of this association is to increase the awareness among the Syrian society about the damages caused by smoking and also to prevent smoking spreading especially among the youths.” \n\nThe Syrian Center for Tobacco Studies is “a pioneer model of international cooperation for the establishment of sustainable research base in a developing country setting. It addresses the need to create local expertise not only in research methodology, but also in research support and fund raising areas.” Its main goals are to study Syrian smoking practices qualitatively and quantitatively, to develop culturally appropriate and cost effective intervention techniques, and to train Syrian tobacco researchers in order to monitor the efforts to curtail the epidemic properly. One of its main strategies is multidisciplinary research, involving the efforts of medical anthropologists, psychologists, epidemiologists, behavioral pharmacologists, and physicians.\n\nSmoking in Syria is currently banned inside cafes (hookah bars), restaurants and other public spaces by a presidential decree issued on 12 October 2009 which went into effect on 21 April 2010. Syria was the first Arab country to introduce such a ban. The decree also outlaws smoking in educational institutions, health centres, sports halls, cinemas and theatres and on public transport. The restrictions include the narghile. According to the official Syrian Arab News Agency, fines for violating the ban range from 500 to 100,000 Syrian pounds (US$11 to $2,169).\n\nA decree in 1996 banned tobacco advertising, while a 2006 law outlawed smoking on public transport and in some public places, introducing fines for offenders. People under the age of 18 are not allowed to buy tobacco in Syria.\n\nThe 2010 ban has produced a variety of negative responses as it is said to “collide with Syria's water-pipe culture.” \n\nBusinesses say the ban is already hurting trade, and has, “led to a total halt in business” Although citizens know that this is the government’s attempt to tries improve the nation’s health, changing the tobacco loving culture in this region as well as the dependence on tobacco consumption for business may take some time. As of 2010, 20% of women and 60% of men are said to smoke and 98% of the overall population is affected by passive smoking., Narghile (also known as the hookah or water pipe) and cigarettes are the two main forms of tobacco consumption.\n\nShop owners are trying to find ways around the law, such as allowing customers to smoke in the back or opening all doors and windows to have their restaurant be considered an outdoor establishment in which smoking would be allowed. They still take much caution, however, as they can be subject to fines and have the additional risk of the complete shutdown of their business following multiple offenses. Smoking customers themselves are subject to fines up to around $44.\n\nSome businesses are beginning to accept the new law and try out other means of luring customers such as live music, cheaper prices, and better food. The “narghile boom” that had taken place over the course of the 15 years preceding the ban is believed to be at an end.\n\nDespite the successful cut-down on public smoking, the ban has also caused an increase in narghile delivery and at-home smoking, since this type of smoking is not prohibited by the ban.\n\nHealth Minister Rida Said defended the ban saying it “protects the rights of non-smokers, many of whom are children, and is an important step towards reduction of smoking-related illness”.\n\nSyria’s revolutionary youth organization (affiliated with the ruling Ba’ath party) held a rally in Damascus to promote the new law, as a means of bringing about a “healthy and strong population” \n\nCigarette smoke plays a large role in the characterization of Syrian protesters. “Syria’s disenfranchised Bouazizis are the greatest population of this revolution. Incidentally, a lot of them are also four-pack-a-day smokers.” Prominent activist bloggers advertise their smoking habits. A young Bouazizi from the city of Binnish said in July 2011, “I was lost for 12 hours in the mountains. Never mind that I had no food or water — my agony was, I had no cigarettes!” \n\nThe association with smoking and social liberalization for women has made smoking popular and present in the image of the female Syrian protester.\n\nIn some territories controlled by the Syrian opposition and the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, smoking is banned and even punishable with death.\n\n"}
{"id": "20005611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20005611", "title": "Social Insurance Institute", "text": "Social Insurance Institute\n\nThe Social Insurance Institute (, IKA) is the largest, state based, social security organization in Greece: its beneficiaries are 5,530,000 members of the Greek employed population and 830,000 pensioners.\n\n"}
{"id": "12665774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12665774", "title": "Sohar Hospital", "text": "Sohar Hospital\n\nSohar Hospital under the Ministry of Health, Oman was set up in 1997 and is a 408-bed tertiary care hospital of wilayat Sohar. It aims to cater to the population of North Batinah Region extending from Suweiq to Shinaz. It is a multispeciality hospital having a fully equipped Adult ICU, Paediatric ICU, CCU apart from facilities for Dialysis. The Operative facilities consists of Laparoscopic surgeries in surgery, Abdominal surgeries as well as Arthroscopy and Endoscopic Sinus Surgery. It is a teaching hospital for students of Oman Medical College (second medical college in The Sultanate of Oman).The majority of Hospital staff comprises expatriates including doctors and paramedics.\n"}
{"id": "40271536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40271536", "title": "SolarWave", "text": "SolarWave\n\nSolarWave is a Swedish company producing solar powered water purification systems.\nSolarWave was founded in 2009 by Bengt Skörelid and Thomas Larsson. The company has its headquarters in Gävle and is represented internationally by its subsidiaries SolarWave Tanzania Limited in Tanzania and SolarWave Uganda Limited in Uganda, as well as by resellers in several African countries. \nThe company's product portfolio comprises water purification systems, desalination systems and solar power sets. \nBased on ultraviolet and reverse osmosis technologies, SolarWave's systems are suitable for use in remote and rural areas because it integrates solar power supply and requires no previous infrastructure. These systems also help serve private home owners needing small and reliable water treatment systems which are easy to operate and are environmentally friendly.\n\nSolarWave is also a part of the United Nations approved Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) project in Tanzania. The project provides safe drinking water to 10 remote villages in Tanzania and reduces CO emissions by replacing traditional water purification; boiling of water using firewood, with SolarWave's environmentally friendly technology.\n"}
{"id": "44209171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44209171", "title": "Stefan Kutzsche", "text": "Stefan Kutzsche\n\nStefan Kutzsche (born 15 April 1954 in Frankfurt am Main) is a Norwegian paediatrician, anaesthesiologist, ethicist, and educationalist in the health professions.\n\nHe graduated as a medical doctor at the University of Hamburg in 1983 and obtained a dr.med. (PhD) degree in neonatology from the University of Oslo in 2002, an MHA in health administration and health economics from the University of Oslo (2006) and an MSc in health professions education from the University of Maastricht (2011). He is double board certified in paediatrics and anaesthesiology. In 2013 he completed a certificate in paediatric bioethics at the Children's Mercy Bioethics Centre in Kansas City, MO.\n\nDuring the 1980s he was a resident at Vestfold Hospital Trust, Akershus University Hospital, and Oslo University Hospital, Ullevål (1985–1991). From 1994 to 2005 he was a senior consultant paediatric anaesthesiologist at Ullevål. He has been a lecturer and research fellow at the Institute of Clinical Medicine at the University of Tromsø (1993) and the Pediatric Research Institute at the University of Oslo (1994–1998). From 2000 to 2005 he was a senior consultant in paediatric intensive care medicine at Ullevål, heading the department 2001–2002. From 2005 to 2014 he was a senior consultant neonatologist at Ullevål. He also served with No. 330 Squadron of the Royal Norwegian Air Force in Banak on search and rescue (SAR) and air ambulance missions in northernmost Norway and over the Barents Sea 1993–2005. He was chief physician at the Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation 2008–2009. From 2014 to 2018 he was an Associate Professor at the International Medical University (IMU) in Kuala Lumpur, and from 2016 to 2018 the Director of the IMU Centre for Education.\n\nHe has formerly been a member and chairman of the Board for Licensing Matters and Foreign Medical Practitioners in Norway (1998–2007), a board member of the Norwegian Society of Pediatricians and editor of its journal \"Paidos\" (2009–2014), a member of the Norwegian specialty committee for pediatrics, and a member of the clinical ethics committee at Oslo University Hospital (2012–2014). He is a member of the editorial committee of \"Acta Paediatrica\".\n\nHis research has focused on neuroscience and neonatology. In particular, he has collaborated with Ola Didrik Saugstad in research on secondary brain injury in newborn infants as a result of perinatal asphyxia and resuscitation with 100% oxygen or normal air, as part of a project initiated by Saugstad that contributed to the amendment of international guidelines for newborn resuscitation. His further research interests include medical ethics and health professions education. He has published papers in \"Pediatrics\", \"Pediatric Research\", \"Biology of the Neonate\", \"Critical Care Medicine\", \"Pediatric Critical Care Medicine\", \"Thrombosis Research\", \"Acta Paediatrica\", \"Acta Anaesthesiologica Scandinavica\", and other journals.\n\nHe is a son of the physician and microbiologist A.K.W. Kutzsche and Louise Paus Haagaas, and is a grandson of the Norwegian mathematician Theodor Haagaas.\n\n"}
{"id": "22585759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22585759", "title": "Steven C. Parrish", "text": "Steven C. Parrish\n\nSteven C. Parrish (born April 13, 1950) is a C-Suite executive consultant, American lawyer, Chair Safe Horizon, and community volunteer. Until 2008, he was an executive for Altria Group Inc. (formerly Philip Morris Companies, Inc.) where he was a Senior Vice President for Corporate Affairs.\n\nFor more than a decade, Steve Parrish supported proposals to grant the Federal Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authority to regulate the tobacco industry. His efforts were documented in network news broadcasts and national publications, including ABC's \"Peter Jennings Reporting from the Tobacco File,\" a \"New York Times Magazine\" cover story \"If It's Good for Philip Morris, Can It Also Be Good for Public Health?\" and the national best-seller, \"A Question of Intent\" by former FDA Chairman Dr. David Kessler. After the passage of the landmark bill granting FDA regulatory authority over the tobacco industry, a 2009 \"New York Times\" article quoted Parrish as congratulating Dr. Kessler. \"Congratulations on the Senate vote today,\" he wrote. Truly historic and it WILL save lives. You were a pioneer; I only wish I had been there with you in the beginning. Better late than never, I guess.\" To which Dr. Kessler replied, \"Congratulations to you - you were key.\" \n\nFrom 1994 to 2008, Parrish led Altria's government relations, communications issues management, corporate philanthropy and corporate compliance. As senior vice president of Altria, Parrish headed the corporation's communications with a range of stakeholders, including public health organizations, civic groups, the media and government. He addressed organizations, including the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse, The Conference Board and World Presidents Organization. He has appeared on numerous news programs such as \"Face the Nation,\" \"Meet the Press\", \"Nightline\", and \"The News Hour\" on PBS.\n\nPrior to joining Philip Morris in 1990 as Vice President and General Counsel, Philip Morris USA, Parrish was a partner at the law firm of Shook, Hardy and Bacon in Kansas City, MO.\n\nAfter his retirement from Altria in 2008, Parrish founded Steve Parrish Consulting Group, LLC specializing in crisis management, corporate social responsibility, public affairs and communication for senior executives of corporations, law firms, and nonprofit organizations. He has also served as is Board Chair of Safe Horizon, the nation's leading provider of support for victims of crime and abuse, particularly domestic violence, sexual assault, child abuse and human trafficking. In 2018, Spectrum News NY1 named Parrish “New Yorker of the Week” for his efforts to assist victims of domestic violence. He also serves on the boards of the Stamford Symphony, Tony La Russa's Animal Rescue Foundation, Carleton College Board of Trustees and the League of American Orchestras.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48317905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48317905", "title": "Terminal drop hypothesis", "text": "Terminal drop hypothesis\n\nIn medicine, the terminal drop hypothesis is a hypothesis that a sharp reduction in cognitive capacity in older people is often correlated with impending death, typically within five years.\n\n"}
{"id": "55932830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55932830", "title": "The Lindsay Society for the History of Dentistry", "text": "The Lindsay Society for the History of Dentistry\n\nThe Lindsay Society is a constituent society of the British Dental Association dedicated to the study of dental history.\n\nThe society was started as The Lindsay Club in 1962. The club was named after Lilian Lindsay the first woman to qualify as a dentist in the UK and a president of the British Dental Association. The formation of the Lindsay Club was the brainchild of a dental surgeon Mr McAuley who was interested in history and had been a friend of Mrs Lindsay and was inspired by his membership of the Osler Club of London. The first meeting of the Lindsay club was held in October 1962 two years after Mrs Lindsay died. \n\nThe Lindsay Society holds meetings at the British Dental Association headquarters in Wimpole Street London and an annual meeting each year usually in the home town of the current president. There is an annual Lilian Lindsay memorial lecture each year at annual British Dental Association conference. The society is affiliated to the British Society for the History of Medicine.\n\nThe society publishes the \"Dental Historian\" twice yearly in January and July which contains articles related to the history of dentistry.\n"}
{"id": "14719103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14719103", "title": "The Mpowerment Project", "text": "The Mpowerment Project\n\nThe Mpowerment Project is a model community building and HIV prevention program that has been designed specifically to address the needs of young gay/bisexual men ages 18 – 29. It is the first documented HIV prevention intervention for young gay/bisexual men to succeed in reducing sexual risk behavior. The program has been carefully developed, evaluated and continually refined over the course of 15 years by prominent behavioral scientists from the University of California, San Francisco's Center for AIDS Prevention Studies, the largest research center in the world dedicated to social, behavioral and policy science approaches to HIV.\n\nIn 1999, it was one of the first programs to be included in the Center for Disease Control and Prevention's \"Compendium of HIV Prevention Interventions with Evidence of Effectiveness.\" It is the only program included that is designed specifically to address the HIV Prevention needs of young gay/bisexual men and other young men who have sex with men (MSM).\n\nRecognizing the critical need for HIV prevention programs for young gay/bisexual men, Dr. Susan Kegeles and Dr. Robert Hays, research psychologists at the Center for AIDS Prevention Studies (CAPS) at the University of California, San Francisco, applied for funding to the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) to design, implement, and evaluate a community-level HIV prevention program for young gay/bisexual men. Their five-year grant was awarded in 1990.\n\nThey pilot tested the program in Santa Cruz, CA. Based on encouraging results there, they refined the program and implemented it in a second community (Eugene, OR), where it was named the Mpowerment Project. Following the program's success in Eugene, it was replicated in Santa Barbara, CA. In 1995 Drs. Kegeles and Hays received a second five-year grant form the NIMH to further develop the program for use in major metropolitan areas across the U.S. Dr. Greg Rebchook, a research psychologist who had worked at a department of public health and at a community-based organization, joined the team in 1996. This new grant enabled them to implement the Mpowerment Project in Albuquerque, NM – where the project was called MPower (1997–1998); and in Austin, TX – where the project was called Austin Men's Project / AMP (1999–2000). Since 2002, numerous organizations have implemented the program with varying success.\n\nThe Mpowerment Project is cost-effective compared with many other HIV prevention strategies. The cost per HIV infection prevented is far less than the lifetime medical costs of HIV disease. In 2005 the RAND Corporation developed a mathematical model of the cost of a wide variety of HIV prevention interventions. The Mpowerment Project is listed as the most cost-effective intervention.\n\nThe Mpowerment manual was released in 2002 and updated in 2010. The individually bound modules cover the following program components: \n\nThe project is made up of three levels of participants: the core group, volunteers, and the community advisory board.\n\nThe core group consists of 10-15 members who represent the demographics of that particular project's local community. These members oftentimes change according to shifts in the community's population.\n\nVolunteers are those who cannot devote as much time to the core group, but would still like to contribute. Volunteers are what help the program be as cost effective as it is.\n\nFinally, a community advisory board is available for the core group and volunteers. Consisting of older members of the LGBT community, the community advisory board provide relevant advice for the groups who usually consist of LGBT youth.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13968140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13968140", "title": "Thomas Hunt (speech therapist)", "text": "Thomas Hunt (speech therapist)\n\nThomas Perkins Lowman Hunt (1802 in Whitchurch, Dorset – 18 August 1851 in Godlingstone near Swanage) was an English speech therapist, inventor of a method of curing stammering.\n\nHunt was born in Dorset in 1802, and is stated to have been educated at Winchester, Hampshire. He entered Trinity College, Cambridge in 1822, with the intention of becoming a minister of the church of England, but the affliction of a fellow-collegian who suffered from stammering is said to have arrested his attention, and he left Cambridge without taking a degree in order to devote himself to the study and cure of defective utterance. He found that the lips, the tongue, the jaws, and the breath were in different cases the offending members. Being satisfied of his ability to cure stammering, he sought wider experience in a provincial tour, and finally in 1827 settled in Regent Street, London. He relied on simple common-sense directions. Each case was studied separately. Sometimes slow and sometimes rapid articulation was recommended to his patients, others were taught to place their tongues in particular positions, and others practised improved means of breathing. He held that not one case in fifty was the consequence of malorganisation, and objected to surgical operations. At an early date, 1828, he was patronised by Sir John Forbes, M.D., F.R.S., who sent him pupils for twenty-four years. When George Pearson, the chief witness in the case respecting the attempt on the life of Queen Victoria made by John Francis on 30 May 1842, was brought into court, he was incapable of giving utterance to his evidence, but after a fortnight's instruction from Hunt he spoke with perfect readiness, a fact certified by Sir Peter Laurie, the sitting magistrate. \"The Lancet\" of 16 May 1846 made a severe attack on Hunt as an unlicensed practitioner. Hunt ably replied in the \"Literary Gazette\" of 30 May. His leisure was spent in Dorset, where he cultivated land, and made agricultural improvements and experiments. In 1849 his numerous pupils, belonging to all professions, in commemoration of his twenty-two years' service, subscribed for his bust in marble, which was modelled by Joseph Durham, and exhibited in the Royal Academy.\n\nHe died at Godlingstone, near Swanage, Dorset, on 18 Aug. 1851, leaving his practice to his son James Hunt. His widow, Mary, died 25 Jan. 1855, aged 49.\n\n"}
{"id": "3063392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3063392", "title": "Womb and vagina envy", "text": "Womb and vagina envy\n\nIn feminist psychology, the terms womb envy and vagina envy denote the anxiety that many men may feel caused by envy of the biological functions of the female sex (pregnancy, parturition, breast feeding). These emotions could fuel the social subordination of women, and drive men to succeed in other areas of life, such as business, law, and politics. Each term is analogous to the concept of female penis envy, derived from the theory of psychosexual development, presented in Freudian psychology; they address the gender role social dynamics underlying the \"envy and fascination with the female breasts and lactation, with pregnancy and childbearing, and vagina envy [that] are clues and signs of transsexualism and to a femininity complex of men, which is defended against by psychological and sociocultural means\".\n\n\"Womb envy\" denotes the envy men may feel towards a woman's role in nurturing and sustaining life. In coining the term, the Neo-Freudian psychiatrist Karen Horney (1885–1952) proposed that men experience womb envy more powerfully than women experience penis envy, because \"men need to disparage women more than women need to disparage men\". As a psychoanalyst, Horney considered womb envy a cultural, psychosocial tendency, like the concept of penis envy, rather than an innate male psychological trait.\n\nBrian Luke, in his book \"Brutal: Manhood and the Exploitation of Animals,\" discusses three ways in which men who experience womb envy may respond: by compensating—constructing a realm of exclusively male activity, by revaluing—devaluing the functions specific to women and/or magnifying the functions specific to men, and by appropriation—taking control of female specific functions.\n\nLuke attributes the coining of this term not to Horney, but to Eva Kittay. The first page of her 1984 article, \"Rereading Freud on 'Femininity' or Why Not Womb Envy?\", is available online. In it she does pose the question of why there is not an concept analogous to penis envy and offers the term womb envy.\n\nIn \"Personality Theories,\" Barbara Engler discusses the often unconscious and indirect ways that womb envy manifests. \"Womb envy, rather than being openly acknowledged by most males, has often taken subtle and indirect forms, such as rituals of taboo, isolation, and cleansing that have been frequently associated with menstruation and childbirth, the need to disparage women, accuse them of witchcraft, belittle their achievements and deny them equal rights.\" Engler also refers to criticism of Horney's theory on the grounds that it equated womanhood with motherhood.\n\nDiscussing the limitations of Horney's broader psychological viewpoint, Bernardo J. Carducci points out the comparative lack of empirical evidence saying, \"In comparison to other theorists..., Horney's work has generated very little empirical research among personality psychologists. Although her theoretical ideas were presented in a relatively straightforward manner, they have not stimulated much interest in others to investigate their validity. This may be in part due to the rejection of her ideas by the more traditional and influential Freudian tradition operating at the time.\"\n\nIn \"\" (2000), historian Robert S. McElvaine extended Horney's argument that womb envy is a powerful, elementary factor in the psychological insecurity suffered by many men. He coined the term \"non-menstrual syndrome\" (NMS), denoting a man's possible insecurity before the biologic and reproductive traits of woman; thus, womb envy may impel men to define their identities in opposition to women. Hence, men who are envious of women's reproductive traits insist that a \"real man\" must be \"not-a-woman\", thus they may seek to socially dominate women—what they may or may not do in life—as psychological compensation for what men cannot do biologically.\n\n\"Vagina envy\" denotes the envy males may feel towards females for having a vagina. In \"Psychoanalysis and Male Sexuality\" (1966), Hendrik Ruitenbeek relates vagina envy to men's desire to be able to give birth and to urinate (higher flow rate) and to masturbate in ways physically different from those available to men, and that such psychological envy might produce misogyny in neurotic men. Moreover, in \"Vagina Envy in Men\" (1993), the physician Harold Tarpley elucidates the theoretic differences among the constructs of \"vagina envy\", \"womb envy\", \"breast envy\", and \"parturition envy\", emotions wherein men suffer envy—\"a grudging desire for another's excellence or advantage\"—of women's female biologic capabilities of pregnancy, parturition, breast feeding, and of the social-role freedom to physically nurture children.\n\nThe theory of \"womb envy\" or \"vaginal envy\" is criticized based on the position that it indicates how the essence of being a woman lies in motherhood. There are scholars who point out that the woman defined in terms of her essential maternity reduces her to her gender characteristics and could, hence, be exploited or be defined according to the terms of patriarchal logic and phallocentric impositions. Domna Stanton, for instance, drew from Jacques Derrida's work to support this argument, particularly, the theorist's position that \"the maternal, which is metaphorized as total being to substantiate a notion that can combat the paternal, represents only one aspect of potential female difference.\"\n\n\n"}
