{"id": "21175119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21175119", "title": "2001 in the European Union", "text": "2001 in the European Union\n\nEvents from the year 2001 in the European Union.\n\nThe year was designated the European Year of Languages by the Council of Europe and the European Parliament.\n\n"}
{"id": "9954800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9954800", "title": "72nd Infantry Division (France)", "text": "72nd Infantry Division (France)\n\nThe 72nd Infantry Division () was a French Army formation during World War I.\n\nThe division was a reserve formation of the French Army, based at Verdun. It was mobilised on 2 August 1914. On mobilisation it commanded the 351st, 362nd, 364th, 365th, and 366th Infantry Regiments and the 56th and 59th Battalions of Chasseurs à Pied. It formed part of the garrison of the Verdun fortress and was subordinated to the French 3rd Army.\n\nThe division remained in the Verdun region until August 1916 (during which it participated in the Battle of Verdun), when it was then moved north, where it then participated in the Battle of the Somme. In 1918 the division took part in the Second Battle of the Marne.\n\nAt the end of the war, only the 365th Infantry Regiment of the original force remained with the division, the other units having been posted away, amalgamated, or disbanded. In addition to this, the 1st Mixed Regiment of Zouaves and Tirailleurs, and the 31st Territorial Infantry Regiment formed part of the division.\n\nAt various times, it was part of the French First Army, French Second Army, French Third Army, French Fourth Army, French Fifth Army, French Sixth Army, French Seventh Army, French Tenth Army, Army of the Lorraine, GQGA and the Fortified Region of Verdun.\n"}
{"id": "3992233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3992233", "title": "AK-Momo", "text": "AK-Momo\n\nAK-Momo are a musical duo from Stockholm, Sweden. They met through mutual friends at a bar in central Stockholm. Olsson invited Malmborg to his studio for a visit. The group consists of Anna Karin ('AK') von Malmborg (vocals, Optigan and whistling) and Mattias Olsson (Optigan, Mellotron and Orchestron). The band formed in July 2003 and recorded the basis for their debut album \"Return to NY\" in six afternoons writing two songs every time. The music is based around the sounds in the Roth Händle studio. After the initial six afternoons Olsson then recorded additional overdubs with the Mellotrons, Optigans and Orchestrons and mixed the album.\n\nThey have been compared to Portishead for their use of vintage synth instruments (and most undoubtedly for letting their inner John Barry (composer) out of the proverbial cage), Kate Bush for the vocals and Felt Mountain era Goldfrapp.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31102164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31102164", "title": "A luta é alegria", "text": "A luta é alegria\n\n\"A luta é alegria\" (\"The struggle is joy\") was the Portuguese entry for the Eurovision Song Contest 2011 in Germany, performed by Homens da Luta. It was chosen for Eurovision by winning the Festival da Canção 2011 on 5 March 2011. However, it did not progress beyond the semi-final.\n\n\"A luta é alegria\" was composed by Vasco Duarte, while the lyrics were written by Jel. The song incorporates folk music style.\n\nThe song refers to the struggle that the people must endure to have their voices heard, by shouting and celebrating on the street. It calls for the union of the people, and to sing against reaction.\n\nHomens da Luta (Men of the Struggle) is a collective of traditional Portuguese music of an interventionist style. Inspired by the musical universe of the period after April 25, 1974, the band is led by the unavoidable Neto and Falâncio (brothers Nuno \"Jel\" and Vasco Duarte), and first appeared on TV five years ago in a comedy show. However, soon they were travelling through the cities, towns, and villages of Portugal, spreading their music and their sense of humour. They bring \"A Luta É Alegria (The Struggle is Joy)\" to the 2011 Eurovision Song Contest, inspired by the tradition of collective singing, which was so fashionable in Portugal in the late 1970s.\n"}
{"id": "42868462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42868462", "title": "Alacón Formation", "text": "Alacón Formation\n\nThe Alacón Formation is a geologic formation in Spain in which fossil dinosaur tracks have been found.\n"}
{"id": "57245544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57245544", "title": "American Women's War Relief Fund", "text": "American Women's War Relief Fund\n\nThe American Women's War Relief Fund was an expatriate organization in the United Kingdom started by American women to fund and aid World War I support efforts. The group was made up of wealthy socialites, politicians' wives and humanitarians. Many famous and well-connected women were involved, including Lou Hoover, Consuelo Vanderbilt and Lady Randolph Churchill. Leila Paget served as president and Ava Lowle Willing was the fund's vice-president. The group, started almost immediately after the declaration of war, funded a fleet of ambulances, two hospitals, one field hospital and several employment opportunities for unemployed women in Britain.\n\nThe American Women's War Relief Fund was founded on August 5, 1914. Members of the organization were women from the United States who were married to Englishmen and who wanted to help in the effort to support soldiers fighting in World War I. The president of the group was Leila Paget and Ava Lowle Willing served as vice-president. Many of the members of the group had husbands who were commanding troops during the war. Paget told journalist Hayden Church that she had thought up the idea for the Relief Fund merely three days after the start of the war. Winnaretta Singer and the Countess of Starfford were major donors of money to the fund. Paget also raised money in both America and England for wounded soldiers of several different countries fighting in the war. In 1917, there was an official request to have all American-led efforts to support the war in Europe be turned over to the American Red Cross for coordination purposes. In January 1918, the Relief Fund hospitals were fully turned over to be run by the Red Cross. \n\nThe fund originally was going to sponsor an ambulance ship, but were persuaded to purchase 6 motor ambulances with a seventh added later by Grace Nichols and bearing the words, \"From Friends in Boston\". The ambulances had room enough for four stretchers and two medics.\n\nIn August 1914, the American Women's War Relief Fund received the donation from Paris Eugene Singer of his Oldway House in Paignton to be used as a military hospital. Lady Randolph Churchill was involved in persuading Singer to donate the house to use as a hospital. The building, known as the American Women's War Hospital, was initially equipped with 200 beds, an operating theatre, radiographic studio, pathology lab and also with anesthetizing and sterilization rooms. Later, an additional 20 beds were added, and an \"Isolation Hut\" for quarantines was built which could accommodate around 30 people. The American Red Cross helped staff the hospital, providing two units. The hospital began treating wounded soldiers as soon as September 1914. On November of that year, Queen Mary brought three hundred articles of clothes for the hospital and visited the wards. Anita Strawbridge solicited donations such as socks and underwear from the United States. By 1916, the American Women's War Hospital had treated 3,203 soldiers, according to the \"New York Herald\". By March 1919, when the hospital closed, it had served over 7,000 soldiers. \n\nThe relief fund also provided partial funding for a field hospital in Belgium run by the wife of an officer, Mrs. O'Gorman. Another hospital, known as the American Women's Hospital, was located at Lancaster Gate and had been opened in 1917 by Walter Hines Page and Willa Alice Wilson Page. The Lancaster hospital had 41 beds and was mainly staffed with American nurses. It was inspected by King George and the Queen in 1917. It closed in 1919.\nIn addition to setting up the hospital, the fund also created workrooms to teach young women new skills as part of the Economic Relief Committee of the American Women's War Relief Fund. The committee was headed by Consuelo Vanderbilt, who had been recruited by Lou Hoover in 1915. This committee provided funds to pay the women's wages and articles of clothing, such as socks, were sent to the hospital or \"given to soldiers and sailors in special need.\" A workroom was set up in a factory building near St. Pancras between August 1914 and August 1915. A knitting factory in Islington was opened in September 1914, followed by other workrooms in October at Woolwich and one at Greenwich. The Woolwich factory was given to a charity to run in 1915. The women employed at the workrooms were not given quotas, but instead did what they were able to do. The working women were also given free tea and low cost meals in the evening.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4545731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4545731", "title": "Anti-Europeanism", "text": "Anti-Europeanism\n\nAnti-Europeanism and Europhobia are political terms used in a variety of contexts, implying sentiment or policies in opposition to Europe.\n\nIn the context of racial or ethno-nationalist politics, this may refer to the culture or peoples of Europe (c.f. anti-white sentiment in the United States); \nIn the shorthand of \"Europe\" standing for the European Union or European integration, it may refer to Euroscepticism, \ncriticism of policies of European governments or the European Union. \nIn the context of United States foreign policy, it may refer to the geopolitical divide between \"transatlantic\", \"transpacific\" and \"hemispheric\" (pan-American) relations.\nThe nominal antonyms would be \"pro-Europeanism\" or \"Europhilia\".\n\n\"Europhobia\" is used of British attitudes towards the Continent, either in the context of anti-German sentiment or of anti-Catholicism,\nor, more recently, of Euroscepticism in the United Kingdom.\n\nAmerican exceptionalism in the United States has long led to criticism of European domestic policy (such as the size of the welfare state in European countries) and foreign policy (such as European countries that did not support the US led 2003 invasion of Iraq). The ideological split between reverence for European refinery and classics and an emerging anti-French and anti-European sentiment played already a role between John Adams, Alexander Hamilton and their fellow Federalists, and Thomas Jefferson and other Democratic-Republicans urging closer ties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10918072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10918072", "title": "Armenia", "text": "Armenia\n\nArmenia (; , ), officially the Republic of Armenia (, ), is a country in the South Caucasus region of Eurasia. Located in Western Asia on the Armenian Highlands, it is bordered by Turkey to the west, Georgia to the north, the \"de facto\" independent Republic of Artsakh and Azerbaijan to the east, and Iran and Azerbaijan's exclave of Nakhchivan to the south.\n\nArmenia is a unitary, multi-party, democratic nation-state with an ancient cultural heritage. Urartu was established in 860 BC and by the 6th century BC it was replaced by the Satrapy of Armenia. The Kingdom of Armenia reached its height under Tigranes the Great in the 1st century BC and became the first state in the world to adopt Christianity as its official religion in the late 3rd or early 4th century AD. The official date of state adoption of Christianity is 301. The ancient Armenian kingdom was split between the Byzantine and Sasanian Empires around the early 5th century. Under the Bagratuni dynasty, the Bagratid Kingdom of Armenia was restored in the 9th century. Declining due to the wars against the Byzantines, the kingdom fell in 1045 and Armenia was soon after invaded by the Seljuk Turks. An Armenian principality and later a kingdom Cilician Armenia was located on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea between the 11th and 14th centuries.\n\nBetween the 16th and 19th centuries, the traditional Armenian homeland composed of Eastern Armenia and Western Armenia came under the rule of the Ottoman and Iranian empires, repeatedly ruled by either of the two over the centuries. By the 19th century, Eastern Armenia had been conquered by the Russian Empire, while most of the western parts of the traditional Armenian homeland remained under Ottoman rule. During World War I, Armenians living in their ancestral lands in the Ottoman Empire were systematically exterminated in the Armenian Genocide. In 1918, following the Russian Revolution, all non-Russian countries declared their independence after the Russian Empire ceased to exist, leading to the establishment of the First Republic of Armenia. By 1920, the state was incorporated into the Transcaucasian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic, and in 1922 became a founding member of the Soviet Union. In 1936, the Transcaucasian state was dissolved, transforming its constituent states, including the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic, into full Union republics. The modern Republic of Armenia became independent in 1991 during the dissolution of the Soviet Union.\n\nArmenia recognises the Armenian Apostolic Church, the world's oldest national church, as the country's primary religious establishment. The unique Armenian alphabet was invented by Mesrop Mashtots in 405 AD.\n\nArmenia is a member of the Eurasian Economic Union, the Council of Europe and the Collective Security Treaty Organization. Armenia supports the de facto independent Republic of Artsakh, which was proclaimed in 1991.\n\nThe original native Armenian name for the country was (\"\"), however it is currently rarely used. The contemporary name (\"Hayastan\") became popular in the Middle Ages by addition of the Persian suffix \"-stan\" (place).. However the origins of the name Hayastan trace back to much earlier dates and were first attested in circa 5th century in the works of Agathangelos, Faustus of Byzantium, Ghazar Parpetsi, Koryun, and Sebeos.\n\nThe name has traditionally been derived from Hayk (), the legendary patriarch of the Armenians and a great-great-grandson of Noah, who, according to the 5th-century AD author Moses of Chorene, defeated the Babylonian king Bel in 2492 BC and established his nation in the Ararat region. The further origin of the name is uncertain. It is also further postulated that the name \"Hay\" comes from one of the two confederated, Hittite vassal states—the Ḫayaša-Azzi (1600–1200 BC).\n\nThe exonym \"Armenia\" is attested in the Old Persian Behistun Inscription (515 BC) as \"Armina\" ( ). The Ancient Greek terms (\"Armenía\") and (\"Arménioi\", \"Armenians\") are first mentioned by Hecataeus of Miletus (c. 550 BC – c. 476 BC). Xenophon, a Greek general serving in some of the Persian expeditions, describes many aspects of Armenian village life and hospitality in around 401 BC. He relates that the people spoke a language that to his ear sounded like the language of the Persians. According to the histories of both Moses of Chorene and Michael Chamchian, \"Armenia\" derives from the name of Aram, a lineal descendant of Hayk. The Table of Nations lists Aram as the son of Shem, to whom the Book of Jubilees attests, \"And for Aram there came forth the fourth portion, all the land of Mesopotamia between the Tigris and the Euphrates to the north of the Chaldees to the border of the mountains of Asshur and the land of 'Arara.\" Jubilees 8:21 also apportions the Mountains of Ararat to Shem, which Jubilees 9:5 expounds to be apportioned to Aram.\n\nThe historian Flavius Josephus also states in his Antiquities of the Jews, \"Aram had the Aramites, which the Greeks called Syrians;... Of the four sons of Aram, Uz founded Trachonitis and Damascus: this country lies between Palestine and Celesyria. Ul founded Armenia; and Gather the Bactrians; and Mesa the Mesaneans; it is now called Charax Spasini.\"\n\nArmenia lies in the highlands surrounding the mountains of Ararat. There is evidence of an early civilisation in Armenia in the Bronze Age and earlier, dating to about 4000 BC. Archaeological surveys in 2010 and 2011 at the Areni-1 cave complex have resulted in the discovery of the world's earliest known leather shoe, skirt, and wine-producing facility.\n\nAccording to the story of Hayk, the legendary founder of Armenia, around 2107 BC Hayk foughy against Belus, the Babylonian God of War, at Çavuştepe along the Engil river to establish the very first Armenian state. Historically, this event coincides with the destruction of Akkad by the Gutian dynasty of Sumer in 2115 BC, a time when Hayk may’ve left with the “more than 300 members of his household” as told in the legend, and also during the beginning of when a Mesopotamian dark age was occurring due to the fall of the Akkadian Empire in 2154 BC which may’ve acted as a backdrop for the events in the legend making him leave Mesopotamia.\n\nSeveral Bronze Age states flourished in the area of Greater Armenia, including the Hittites (at the height of their power), Mitanni (southwestern historical Armenia), and Hayasa-Azzi (1500–1200 BC). The Nairi people (12th to 9th centuries BC) and Urartu (1000–600 BC) successively established their sovereignty over the Armenian Highlands. Each of the aforementioned nations and tribes participated in the ethnogenesis of the Armenians. A large cuneiform lapidary inscription found in Yerevan established that the modern capital of Armenia was founded in the summer of 782 BC by King Argishti I. Yerevan is the world's oldest city to have documented the exact date of its foundation.\nDuring the late 6th century BC, the first geographical entity that was called Armenia by neighbouring populations was established under the Orontid Dynasty within the Achaemenid Empire, as part of the latters' territories. The kingdom became fully sovereign from the sphere of influence of the Seleucid Empire in 190 BC under King Artaxias I and begun the rule of the Artaxiad dynasty. Armenia reached its height between 95 and 66 BC under Tigranes the Great, becoming the most powerful kingdom of its time east of the Roman Republic.\n\nIn the next centuries, Armenia was in the Persian Empire's sphere of influence during the reign of Tiridates I, the founder of the Arsacid dynasty of Armenia, which itself was a branch of the Parthian Empire. Throughout its history, the kingdom of Armenia enjoyed both periods of independence and periods of autonomy subject to contemporary empires. Its strategic location between two continents has subjected it to invasions by many peoples, including Assyria (under Ashurbanipal, at around 669–627 BC, the boundaries of Assyria reached as far as Armenia and the Caucasus Mountains), Medes, Achaemenid Empire, Greeks, Parthians, Romans, Sasanian Empire, Byzantine Empire, Arabs, Seljuk Empire, Mongols, Ottoman Empire, the successive Safavid, Afsharid, and Qajar dynasties of Iran, and the Russians.\n\nReligion in ancient Armenia was historically related to a set of beliefs that, in Persia, led to the emergence of Zoroastrianism. It particularly focused on the worship of Mithra and also included a pantheon of gods such as Aramazd, Vahagn, Anahit, and Astghik. The country used the solar Armenian calendar, which consisted of 12 months.\n\nChristianity spread into the country as early as AD 40. Tiridates III of Armenia (238–314) made Christianity the state religion in 301, partly, in defiance of the Sasanian Empire, it seems, becoming the first officially Christian state, ten years before the Roman Empire granted Christianity an official toleration under Galerius, and 36 years before Constantine the Great was baptised. Prior to this, during the latter part of the Parthian period, Armenia was a predominantly Zoroastrian country.\n\nAfter the fall of the Kingdom of Armenia in 428, most of Armenia was incorporated as a \"marzpanate\" within the Sasanian Empire. Following the Battle of Avarayr in 451, Christian Armenians maintained their religion and Armenia gained autonomy.\n\nAfter the Sasanian period (428–636), Armenia emerged as Arminiya, an autonomous principality under the Umayyad Caliphate, reuniting Armenian lands previously taken by the Byzantine Empire as well. The principality was ruled by the Prince of Armenia, and recognised by the Caliph and the Byzantine Emperor. It was part of the administrative division/emirate \"Arminiya\" created by the Arabs, which also included parts of Georgia and Caucasian Albania, and had its centre in the Armenian city, Dvin. Arminiya lasted until 884, when it regained its independence from the weakened Abbasid Caliphate under Ashot I of Armenia.\n\nThe reemergent Armenian kingdom was ruled by the Bagratuni dynasty and lasted until 1045. In time, several areas of the Bagratid Armenia separated as independent kingdoms and principalities such as the Kingdom of Vaspurakan ruled by the House of Artsruni in the south, Kingdom of Syunik in the east, or Kingdom of Artsakh on the territory of modern Nagorno-Karabakh, while still recognising the supremacy of the Bagratid kings.\n\nIn 1045, the Byzantine Empire conquered Bagratid Armenia. Soon, the other Armenian states fell under Byzantine control as well. The Byzantine rule was short lived, as in 1071 the Seljuk Empire defeated the Byzantines and conquered Armenia at the Battle of Manzikert, establishing the Seljuk Empire. To escape death or servitude at the hands of those who had assassinated his relative, Gagik II of Armenia, King of Ani, an Armenian named Ruben I, Prince of Armenia, went with some of his countrymen into the gorges of the Taurus Mountains and then into Tarsus of Cilicia. The Byzantine governor of the palace gave them shelter where the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia was eventually established on 6 January 1198 under Leo I, King of Armenia, a descendant of Prince Ruben.\n\nCilicia was a strong ally of the European Crusaders, and saw itself as a bastion of Christendom in the East. Cilicia's significance in Armenian history and statehood is also attested by the transfer of the seat of the Catholicos of the Armenian Apostolic Church, the spiritual leader of the Armenian people, to the region.\n\nThe Seljuk Empire soon started to collapse. In the early 12th century, Armenian princes of the Zakarid family drove out the Seljuk Turks and established a semi-independent principality in northern and eastern Armenia known as Zakarid Armenia, which lasted under the patronage of the Georgian Kingdom. The Orbelian Dynasty shared control with the Zakarids in various parts of the country, especially in Syunik and Vayots Dzor, while the House of Hasan-Jalalyan controlled provinces of Artsakh and Utik as the Kingdom of Artsakh.\n\nDuring the 1230s, the Mongol Empire conquered Zakarid Armenia and then the remainder of Armenia. The Mongolian invasions were soon followed by those of other Central Asian tribes, such as the Kara Koyunlu, Timurid dynasty and Ağ Qoyunlu, which continued from the 13th century until the 15th century. After incessant invasions, each bringing destruction to the country, with time Armenia became weakened.\n\nIn the 16th century, the Ottoman Empire and the Safavid dynasty of Iran divided Armenia. From the early 16th century, both Western Armenia and Eastern Armenia fell to the Safavid Empire. Owing to the century long Turco-Iranian geopolitical rivalry that would last in Western Asia, significant parts of the region were frequently fought over between the two rivalling empires. From the mid 16th century with the Peace of Amasya, and decisively from the first half of the 17th century with the Treaty of Zuhab until the first half of the 19th century, Eastern Armenia was ruled by the successive Safavid, Afsharid and Qajar empires, while Western Armenia remained under Ottoman rule.\n\nFrom 1604, Abbas I of Iran implemented a \"scorched earth\" policy in the region to protect his north-western frontier against any invading Ottoman forces, a policy that involved a forced resettlement of masses of Armenians outside of their homelands.\nIn the 1813 Treaty of Gulistan and the 1828 Treaty of Turkmenchay, following the Russo-Persian War (1804–13) and the Russo-Persian War (1826–28), respectively, the Qajar dynasty of Iran was forced to irrevocably cede Eastern Armenia, consisting of the Erivan and Karabakh Khanates, to Imperial Russia.\n\nWhile Western Armenia still remained under Ottoman rule, the Armenians were granted considerable autonomy within their own enclaves and lived in relative harmony with other groups in the empire (including the ruling Turks). However, as Christians under a strict Muslim social structure, Armenians faced pervasive discrimination. When they began pushing for more rights within the Ottoman Empire, Sultan Abdul Hamid II, in response, organised state-sponsored massacres against the Armenians between 1894 and 1896, resulting in an estimated death toll of 80,000 to 300,000 people. The Hamidian massacres, as they came to be known, gave Hamid international infamy as the \"Red Sultan\" or \"Bloody Sultan\". This period is known as Russian Armenia.\n\nDuring the 1890s, the Armenian Revolutionary Federation, commonly known as \"Dashnaktsutyun\", became active within the Ottoman Empire with the aim of unifying the various small groups in the empire that were advocating for reform and defending Armenian villages from massacres that were widespread in some of the Armenian-populated areas of the empire. Dashnaktsutyun members also formed Armenian fedayi groups that defended Armenian civilians through armed resistance. The Dashnaks also worked for the wider goal of creating a \"free, independent and unified\" Armenia, although they sometimes set aside this goal in favour of a more realistic approach, such as advocating autonomy.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire began to collapse, and in 1908, the Young Turk Revolution overthrew the government of Sultan Hamid. In April 1909, the Adana massacre occurred in the Adana Vilayet of the Ottoman Empire resulting in the deaths of as many as 20,000–30,000 Armenians. The Armenians living in the empire hoped that the Committee of Union and Progress would change their second-class status. Armenian reform package (1914) was presented as a solution by appointing an inspector general over Armenian issues.\n\nThe outbreak of World War I lead to confrontation between the Ottoman Empire and the Russian Empire in the Caucasus and Persian Campaigns. The new government in Istanbul began to look on the Armenians with distrust and suspicion, because the Imperial Russian Army contained a contingent of Armenian volunteers. On 24 April 1915, Armenian intellectuals were arrested by Ottoman authorities and, with the Tehcir Law (29 May 1915), eventually a large proportion of Armenians living in Anatolia perished in what has become known as the Armenian Genocide.\n\nThe genocide was implemented in two phases: the wholesale killing of the able-bodied male population through massacre and subjection of army conscripts to forced labour, followed by the deportation of women, children, the elderly and infirm on death marches leading to the Syrian desert. Driven forward by military escorts, the deportees were deprived of food and water and subjected to periodic robbery, rape, and massacre. There was local Armenian resistance in the region, developed against the activities of the Ottoman Empire. The events of 1915 to 1917 are regarded by Armenians and the vast majority of Western historians to have been state-sponsored mass killings, or genocide.\n\nTurkish authorities deny the genocide took place to this day. The Armenian Genocide is acknowledged to have been one of the first modern genocides. According to the research conducted by Arnold J. Toynbee, an estimated 600,000 Armenians died during deportation from 1915–16. This figure, however, accounts for solely the first year of the Genocide and does not take into account those who died or were killed after the report was compiled on 24 May 1916. The International Association of Genocide Scholars places the death toll at \"more than a million\". The total number of people killed has been most widely estimated at between 1 and 1.5 million.\n\nArmenia and the Armenian diaspora have been campaigning for official recognition of the events as genocide for over 30 years. These events are traditionally commemorated yearly on 24 April, the Armenian Martyr Day, or the Day of the Armenian Genocide.\n\nAlthough the Russian Caucasus Army of Imperial forces commanded by Nikolai Yudenich and Armenians in volunteer units and Armenian militia led by Andranik Ozanian and Tovmas Nazarbekian succeeded in gaining most of Ottoman Armenia during World War I, their gains were lost with the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917. At the time, Russian-controlled Eastern Armenia, Georgia, and Azerbaijan attempted to bond together in the Transcaucasian Democratic Federative Republic. This federation, however, lasted from only February to May 1918, when all three parties decided to dissolve it. As a result, the Dashnaktsutyun government of Eastern Armenia declared its independence on 28 May as the First Republic of Armenia under the leadership of Aram Manukian.\n\nThe First Republic's short-lived independence was fraught with war, territorial disputes, and a mass influx of refugees from Ottoman Armenia, bringing with them disease and starvation. The Entente Powers, appalled by the actions of the Ottoman government, sought to help the newly founded Armenian state through relief funds and other forms of support.\n\nAt the end of the war, the victorious powers sought to divide up the Ottoman Empire. Signed between the Allied and Associated Powers and Ottoman Empire at Sèvres on 10 August 1920, the Treaty of Sèvres promised to maintain the existence of the Armenian republic and to attach the former territories of Ottoman Armenia to it. Because the new borders of Armenia were to be drawn by United States President Woodrow Wilson, Ottoman Armenia was also referred to as \"Wilsonian Armenia\". In addition, just days prior, on 5 August 1920, Mihran Damadian of the Armenian National Union, the de facto Armenian administration in Cilicia, declared the independence of Cilicia as an Armenian autonomous republic under French protectorate.\n\nThere was even consideration of possibly making Armenia a mandate under the protection of the United States. The treaty, however, was rejected by the Turkish National Movement, and never came into effect. The movement used the treaty as the occasion to declare itself the rightful government of Turkey, replacing the monarchy based in Istanbul with a republic based in Ankara.\nIn 1920, Turkish nationalist forces invaded the fledgling Armenian republic from the east. Turkish forces under the command of Kazım Karabekir captured Armenian territories that Russia had annexed in the aftermath of the 1877–1878 Russo-Turkish War and occupied the old city of Alexandropol (present-day Gyumri). The violent conflict finally concluded with the Treaty of Alexandropol on 2 December 1920. The treaty forced Armenia to disarm most of its military forces, cede all former Ottoman territory granted to it by the Treaty of Sèvres, and to give up all the \"Wilsonian Armenia\" granted to it at the Sèvres treaty. Simultaneously, the Soviet Eleventh Army, under the command of Grigoriy Ordzhonikidze, invaded Armenia at Karavansarai (present-day Ijevan) on 29 November. By 4 December, Ordzhonikidze's forces entered Yerevan and the short-lived Armenian republic collapsed.\n\nAfter the fall of the republic, the February Uprising soon took place in 1921, and led to the establishment of the Republic of Mountainous Armenia by Armenian forces under command of Garegin Nzhdeh on 26 April, which fought off both Soviet and Turkish intrusions in the Zangezur region of southern Armenia. After Soviet agreements to include the Syunik Province in Armenia's borders, the rebellion ended and the Red Army took control of the region on 13 July.\n\nArmenia was annexed by Bolshevist Russia and along with Georgia and Azerbaijan, it was incorporated into the Soviet Union as part of the Transcaucasian SFSR (TSFSR) on 4 March 1922. With this annexation, the Treaty of Alexandropol was superseded by the Turkish-Soviet Treaty of Kars. In the agreement, Turkey allowed the Soviet Union to assume control over Adjara with the port city of Batumi in return for sovereignty over the cities of Kars, Ardahan, and Iğdır, all of which were part of Russian Armenia.\n\nThe TSFSR existed from 1922 to 1936, when it was divided up into three separate entities (Armenian SSR, Azerbaijan SSR, and Georgian SSR). Armenians enjoyed a period of relative stability under Soviet rule. They received medicine, food, and other provisions from Moscow, and communist rule proved to be a soothing balm in contrast to the turbulent final years of the Ottoman Empire. The situation was difficult for the church, which struggled under Soviet rule. After the death of Vladimir Lenin, Joseph Stalin took the reins of power and began an era of renewed fear and terror for Armenians.\n\nArmenia was not the scene of any battles in World War II. An estimated 500,000 Armenians (nearly a third of the population) served in the military during the war, and 175,000 died.\n\nFears decreased when Stalin died in 1953 and Nikita Khruschev emerged as the Soviet Union's new leader. Soon, life in Soviet Armenia began to see rapid improvement. The church, which suffered greatly under Stalin, was revived when Catholicos Vazgen I assumed the duties of his office in 1955. In 1967, a memorial to the victims of the Armenian Genocide was built at the Tsitsernakaberd hill above the Hrazdan gorge in Yerevan. This occurred after mass demonstrations took place on the tragic event's fiftieth anniversary in 1965.\nDuring the Gorbachev era of the 1980s, with the reforms of Glasnost and Perestroika, Armenians began to demand better environmental care for their country, opposing the pollution that Soviet-built factories brought. Tensions also developed between Soviet Azerbaijan and its autonomous district of Nagorno-Karabakh, a majority-Armenian region. About 484,000 Armenians lived in Azerbaijan in 1970. The Armenians of Karabakh demanded unification with Soviet Armenia. Peaceful protests in Yerevan supporting the Karabakh Armenians were met with anti-Armenian pogroms in the Azerbaijani city of Sumgait. Compounding Armenia's problems was a devastating earthquake in 1988 with a moment magnitude of 7.2.\n\nGorbachev's inability to alleviate any of Armenia's problems created disillusionment among the Armenians and fed a growing hunger for independence. In May 1990, the New Armenian Army (NAA) was established, serving as a defence force separate from the Soviet Red Army. Clashes soon broke out between the NAA and Soviet Internal Security Forces (MVD) troops based in Yerevan when Armenians decided to commemorate the establishment of the 1918 First Republic of Armenia. The violence resulted in the deaths of five Armenians killed in a shootout with the MVD at the railway station. Witnesses there claimed that the MVD used excessive force and that they had instigated the fighting.\n\nFurther firefights between Armenian militiamen and Soviet troops occurred in Sovetashen, near the capital and resulted in the deaths of over 26 people, mostly Armenians. The pogrom of Armenians in Baku in January 1990 forced almost all of the 200,000 Armenians in the Azerbaijani capital Baku to flee to Armenia. On 23 August 1990, Armenia declared its sovereignty on its territory. On 17 March 1991, Armenia, along with the Baltic states, Georgia and Moldova, boycotted a nationwide referendum in which 78% of all voters voted for the retention of the Soviet Union in a reformed form.\n\nOn 21 September 1991, Armenia officially declared its independence after the failed August coup in Moscow. Levon Ter-Petrosyan was popularly elected the first President of the newly independent Republic of Armenia on 16 October 1991. He had risen to prominence by leading the Karabakh movement for the unification of the Armenian-populated Nagorno-Karabakh. On 26 December 1991, the Soviet Union ceased to exist and Armenia's independence was recognised.\n\nTer-Petrosyan led Armenia alongside Defense Minister Vazgen Sargsyan through the Nagorno-Karabakh War with neighbouring Azerbaijan. The initial post-Soviet years were marred by economic difficulties, which had their roots early in the Karabakh conflict when the Azerbaijani Popular Front managed to pressure the Azerbaijan SSR to instigate a railway and air blockade against Armenia. This move effectively crippled Armenia's economy as 85% of its cargo and goods arrived through rail traffic. In 1993, Turkey joined the blockade against Armenia in support of Azerbaijan.\nThe Karabakh war ended after a Russian-brokered cease-fire was put in place in 1994. The war was a success for the Karabakh Armenian forces who managed to capture 16% of Azerbaijan's internationally recognised territory including Nagorno-Karabakh itself. Since then, Armenia and Azerbaijan have held peace talks, mediated by the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE). The status of Karabakh has yet to be determined. The economies of both countries have been hurt in the absence of a complete resolution and Armenia's borders with Turkey and Azerbaijan remain closed. By the time both Azerbaijan and Armenia had finally agreed to a ceasefire in 1994, an estimated 30,000 people had been killed and over a million had been displaced.\n\nAs it enters the 21st century, Armenia faces many hardships. It has made a full switch to a market economy. One study ranks it the 41st most \"economically free\" nation in the world, . Its relations with Europe, the Middle East, and the Commonwealth of Independent States have allowed Armenia to increase trade. Gas, oil, and other supplies come through two vital routes: Iran and Georgia. Armenia maintains cordial relations with both countries.\n\nArmenia is a landlocked country in the geopolitical Transcaucasus (South Caucasus) region, that is located in the Southern Caucasus Mountains and their lowlands between the Black Sea and Caspian Sea, and northeast of the Armenian Highlands. Armenia is bordered on the north by Georgia, the east by Azerbaijan; the south by Iran; and the southwest and west by Turkey. Armenia lies between latitudes 38° and 42° N, and meridians 43° and 47° E.\n\nThe Republic of Armenia has a territorial area of . The terrain is mostly mountainous, with fast flowing rivers, and few forests. The land rises to above sea level at Mount Aragats, and no point is below above sea level. Average elevation of the country area is 10th highest in the world.\n\nMount Ararat, which was historically part of Armenia, is the highest mountain in the region. Now located in Turkey, but clearly visible from Armenia, it is regarded by the Armenians as a symbol of their land. Because of this, the mountain is present on the Armenian national emblem today.\n\nThe climate in Armenia is markedly highland continental. Summers are dry and sunny, lasting from June to mid-September. The temperature fluctuates between . However, the low humidity level mitigates the effect of high temperatures. Evening breezes blowing down the mountains provide a welcome refreshing and cooling effect. Springs are short, while autumns are long. Autumns are known for their vibrant and colourful foliage.\n\nWinters are quite cold with plenty of snow, with temperatures ranging between . Winter sports enthusiasts enjoy skiing down the hills of Tsakhkadzor, located thirty minutes outside Yerevan. Lake Sevan, nestled up in the Armenian highlands, is the second largest lake in the world relative to its altitude, at above sea level.\n\nArmenia ranked 63rd out of 180 countries on Environmental Performance Index (EPI) in 2018. Its rank on subindex Environmental Health (which is weighted at 40% in EPI) is 109, while Armenia's rank on subindex of Ecosystem Vitality (weighted at 60% in EPI) is 27th best in the world. This suggests that main environmental issues in Armenia are with population health, while environment vitality is of lesser concern. Out of sub-subindices contributing to Environmental Health subindex ranking on Air Quality to which population is exposed is particularly unsatisfying.\n\nWaste management in Armenia is underdeveloped, as no waste sorting or recycling takes place at Armenia's 60 landfills. A waste processing plant is scheduled for construction near Hrazdan city, which will allow for closure of 10 waste dumps.\n\nDespite the availability of abundant renewable energy sources in Armenia (especially hydroelectric and wind power) and calls from EU officials to shut down the nuclear power plant at Metsamor, the Armenian Government is exploring the possibilities of installing new small modular nuclear reactors. In 2018 existing nuclear plant is scheduled for modernization to enhance its safety and increase power production by about 10%.\n\nArmenian Ministry of Nature Protection introduced taxes for air and water pollution and solid-waste disposal, whose revenues are used for environmental protection activities.\n\nPolitics of Armenia takes place in a framework of representative parliamentary democratic republic. Until transition in April 2018 Armenian constitution adhered to the model of semi-presidential republic.\n\nAccording to the current Constitution of Armenia, the President is the head of state holding largely representational functions, while the Prime Minister is the head of government and exercises executive power.\n\nLegislative power is vested in the unicameral parliament is also called the Azgayin Zhoghov or \"National Assembly.\"\n\nArmenia has universal suffrage above the age of eighteen.\n\nArmenia presently maintains positive relations with almost every country in the world, with two major exceptions being its immediate neighbours, Turkey and Azerbaijan. Tensions were running high between Armenians and Azerbaijanis during the final years of the Soviet Union. The Nagorno-Karabakh War dominated the region's politics throughout the 1990s. To this day, Armenia's borders with Turkey and Azerbaijan are under severe blockade. In addition, a permanent solution for the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict has not been reached despite the mediation provided by organizations such as the OSCE.\n\nArmenia is a member of more than 40 international organisations, including the United Nations; the Council of Europe; the Asian Development Bank; the Commonwealth of Independent States; the World Trade Organization; World Customs Organization; the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation; and La Francophonie. It is a member of the CSTO military alliance, and also participates in NATO's Partnership for Peace program.\n\nTurkey also has a long history of poor relations with Armenia over its refusal to acknowledge the Armenian Genocide, even though it was one of the first countries to recognize the Republic of Armenia (the 3rd republic) after its independence from the USSR in 1991. Despite this, for most of the 20th century and early 21st century, relations remain tense and there are no formal diplomatic relations between the two countries due to Turkey's refusal to establish them for numerous reasons. During the Nagorno-Karabakh War, and citing it as the reason, Turkey illegally closed its border with Armenia in 1993. It has not lifted its blockade despite pressure from the powerful Turkish business lobby interested in Armenian markets.\n\nOn 10 October 2009, Armenia and Turkey signed protocols on the normalisation of relations, which set a timetable for restoring diplomatic ties and reopening their joint border. The ratification of those had to be made in the national parliaments. In Armenia, it passed through the legislatively required approval of the Constitutional Court and was sent to parliament for final ratification. The President had made multiple public announcements, both in Armenia and abroad, that, as the leader of the political majority of Armenia, he assured the ratification of the protocols if Turkey also ratified them. Despite this, the process stopped, as Turkey continuously added more preconditions to its ratification and also \"delayed it beyond any reasonable time-period\".\n\nDue to its position between two unfriendly neighbours, Armenia has close security ties with Russia. At the request of the Armenian government, Russia maintains a military base in the city of Gyumri located in Northwestern Armenia. as a deterrent against Turkey. Despite this, Armenia has also been looking toward Euro-Atlantic structures in recent years. It maintains good relations with the United States especially through its Armenian diaspora. According to the US Census Bureau, there are 427,822 Armenians living in the country.\n\nBecause of the illicit border blockades by Azerbaijan and Turkey, Armenia continues to maintain solid relations with its southern neighbour Iran especially in the economic sector. Economic projects such a gas pipeline going from Iran to Armenia are being developed.\n\nArmenia is also a member of the Council of Europe, maintaining friendly relations with the European Union, especially with its member states such as France and Greece. A 2005 survey reported that 64% of Armenia's population would be in favour of joining the EU. Several Armenian officials have also expressed the desire for their country to eventually become an EU member state, some predicting that it will make an official bid for membership in a few years. In 2004 its forces joined KFOR, a NATO-led international force in Kosovo. It is also an observer member of the Eurasian Economic Community and the Non-Aligned Movement. As a result of its historical ties to France, Armenia was selected to host the biennial Francophonie summit in 2018.\n\nA former republic of the Soviet Union, Armenia is an emerging democracy and was negotiating with the European Union to become an associate partner. Legally speaking, it has the right to be considered as a prospective EU member provided it meets necessary standards and criteria, although officially such a plan does not exist in Brussels. The Government of Armenia, however, has joined the Customs Union of Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia and the Eurasian Economic Union.\n\nArmenia is included in the European Union's European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) which aims at bringing the EU and its neighbours closer. The EU-Armenia Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement (CEPA) was signed on 24 November 2017. Among other goals, it aims at improving investment climate.\n\nHuman rights in Armenia tend to be better than those in most former Soviet republics and have drawn closer to acceptable standards, especially economically. Still, there are several considerable problems.\n\nArmenia is classified \"partly free\" in 2018 report (with data for 2017) by Freedom House, which gives it a score of 45 out of 100.\n\nArmenia is ranks 54th in 2017 report of Human Freedom Index (with data for 2016) published by Canada's Fraser Institute.\n\nArmenia ranked 29th for economic freedom and 76th for personal freedom among 159 countries in 2017 Human Freedom Index published by the Cato Institute .\n\nThese classification may improve when 2018 data, including the period of velvet revolution and thereafter, is analyzed.\n\nThe Armenian Army, Air Force, Air Defence, and Border Guard comprise the four branches of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Armenia. The Armenian military was formed after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 and with the establishment of the Ministry of Defence in 1992.\n\nThe Commander-in-Chief of the military is the Prime Minister of Armenia, Nikol Pashinyan. The Ministry of Defence is in charge of political leadership, headed by Davit Tonoyan, while military command remains in the hands of the general staff, headed by the Chief of Staff, who is Major-General Artak Davtyan.\n\nActive forces now number about 81,000 soldiers, with an additional reserve of 32,000 troops. Armenian border guards are in charge of patrolling the country's borders with Georgia and Azerbaijan, while Russian troops continue to monitor its borders with Iran and Turkey. In the case of an attack, Armenia is able to mobilise every able-bodied man between the age of 15 and 59, with military preparedness.\n\nThe Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, which establishes comprehensive limits on key categories of military equipment, was ratified by the Armenian parliament in July 1992. In March 1993, Armenia signed the multilateral Chemical Weapons Convention, which calls for the eventual elimination of chemical weapons. Armenia acceded to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) as a non-nuclear weapons state in July 1993.\n\nArmenia is member of Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO) along with Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. It participates in NATO's Partnership for Peace (PiP) program and is in a NATO organisation called Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council (EAPC). Armenia has engaged in a peacekeeping mission in Kosovo as part of non-NATO KFOR troops under Greek command. Armenia also had 46 members of its military peacekeeping forces as a part of the Coalition Forces in Iraq War until October 2008.\n\nArmenia is divided into ten provinces (\"marzer\", singular \"marz\"), with the city (\"kaghak\") of Yerevan () having special administrative status as the country's capital. The chief executive in each of the ten provinces is the \"marzpet\" (\"marz\" governor), appointed by the government of Armenia. In Yerevan, the chief executive is the mayor, appointed by the president.\n\nWithin each province are communities (\"hamaynkner\", singular \"hamaynk\"). Each community is self-governing and consists of one or more settlements (\"bnakavayrer\", singular \"bnakavayr\"). Settlements are classified as either towns (\"kaghakner\", singular \"kaghak\") or villages (\"gyugher\", singular \"gyugh\"). , Armenia includes 915 communities, of which 49 are considered urban and 866 are considered rural. The capital, Yerevan, also has the status of a community. Additionally, Yerevan is divided into twelve semi-autonomous districts.\n† 2011 censusSources: Area and population of provinces.\n\nThe economy relies heavily on investment and support from Armenians abroad. Before independence, Armenia's economy was largely industry-based – chemicals, electronics, machinery, processed food, synthetic rubber, and textile – and highly dependent on outside resources. The republic had developed a modern industrial sector, supplying machine tools, textiles, and other manufactured goods to sister republics in exchange for raw materials and energy. Recently, the Intel Corporation agreed to open a research centre in Armenia, in addition to other technology companies, signalling the growth of the technology industry in Armenia.\n\nAgriculture accounted for less than 20% of both net material product and total employment before the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. After independence, the importance of agriculture in the economy increased markedly, its share at the end of the 1990s rising to more than 30% of GDP and more than 40% of total employment. This increase in the importance of agriculture was attributable to food security needs of the population in the face of uncertainty during the first phases of transition and the collapse of the non-agricultural sectors of the economy in the early 1990s. As the economic situation stabilised and growth resumed, the share of agriculture in GDP dropped to slightly over 20% (2006 data), although the share of agriculture in employment remained more than 40%.\nArmenian mines produce copper, zinc, gold, and lead. The vast majority of energy is produced with fuel imported from Russia, including gas and nuclear fuel (for its one nuclear power plant); the main domestic energy source is hydroelectric. Small deposits of coal, gas, and petroleum exist but have not yet been developed.\n\nLike other newly independent states of the former Soviet Union, Armenia's economy suffers from the breakdown of former Soviet trading patterns. Soviet investment in and support of Armenian industry has virtually disappeared, so that few major enterprises are still able to function. In addition, the effects of the 1988 Spitak earthquake, which killed more than 25,000 people and made 500,000 homeless, are still being felt. The conflict with Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh has not been resolved. The closure of Azerbaijani and Turkish borders has devastated the economy, because Armenia depends on outside supplies of energy and most raw materials. Land routes through Georgia and Iran are inadequate or unreliable. The GDP fell nearly 60% between 1989 and 1993, but then resumed robust growth. The national currency, the dram, suffered hyperinflation for the first years after its introduction in 1993.\n\nNevertheless, the government was able to make wide-ranging economic reforms that paid off in dramatically lower inflation and steady growth. The 1994 cease-fire in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict has also helped the economy. Armenia has had strong economic growth since 1995, building on the turnaround that began the previous year, and inflation has been negligible for the past several years. New sectors, such as precious-stone processing and jewelry making, information and communication technology, and even tourism are beginning to supplement more traditional sectors of the economy, such as agriculture.\nThis steady economic progress has earned Armenia increasing support from international institutions. The International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), and other international financial institutions (IFIs) and foreign countries are extending considerable grants and loans. Loans to Armenia since 1993 exceed $1.1 billion. These loans are targeted at reducing the budget deficit and stabilising the currency; developing private businesses; energy; agriculture; food processing; transportation; the health and education sectors; and ongoing rehabilitation in the earthquake zone. The government joined the World Trade Organization on 5 February 2003. But one of the main sources of foreign direct investments remains the Armenian diaspora, which finances major parts of the reconstruction of infrastructure and other public projects. Being a growing democratic state, Armenia also hopes to get more financial aid from the Western World.\n\nA liberal foreign investment law was approved in June 1994, and a law on privatization was adopted in 1997, as well as a program of state property privatization. Continued progress will depend on the ability of the government to strengthen its macroeconomic management, including increasing revenue collection, improving the investment climate, and making strides against corruption. However, unemployment, which was 18.5% in 2015, still remains a major problem due to the influx of thousands of refugees from the Karabakh conflict.\n\nArmenia ranks 47th on Doing Business Index in 2018 with 13th rank on \"starting business\" sub-index.\n\nArmenia ranked 83rd on the 2018 UNDP Human Development Index (with 2017 data) and is classified into \"high human development\" group.\n\nIn the 2015 Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI), Armenia ranked 95 of 168 countries.\n\nIn the 2016 Index of Economic Freedom, Armenia ranked 54th, ahead of countries like France, Portugal and Italy.\n\nResearch spending is low in Armenia, averaging 0.25% of GDP over 2010–2013. However, the statistical record of research expenditure is incomplete, as expenditure by privately owned business enterprises is not surveyed in Armenia. The world average for domestic expenditure on research was 1.7% of GDP in 2013.\n\nThe country's \"Strategy for the Development of Science 2011–2020\" envisions that ‘by 2020, Armenia is a country with a knowledge-based economy and is competitive within the European Research Area with its level of basic and applied research.’ It fixes the following targets:\nBased on this strategy, the accompanying \"Action Plan\" was approved by the government in June 2011. It defines the following targets:\n\nAlthough the \"Strategy\" clearly pursues a ‘science push’ approach, with public research institutes serving as the key policy target, it nevertheless mentions the goal of establishing an innovation system. However, the main driver of innovation, the business sector, is not mentioned. In between publishing the \"Strategy\" and \"Action Plan\", the government issued a resolution in May 2010 on \"Science and Technology Development Priorities for 2010–2014\". These priorities are:\nThe Law on the National Academy of Sciences was adopted in May 2011. This law is expected to play a key role in shaping the Armenian innovation system. It allows the National Academy of Sciences to extend its business activities to the commercialization of research results and the creation of spin-offs; it also makes provision for restructuring the National Academy of Sciences by combining institutes involved in closely related research areas into a single body. Three of these new centres are particularly relevant: the Centre for Biotechnology, the Centre for Zoology and Hydro-ecology and the Centre for Organic and Pharmaceutical Chemistry.\n\nThe government is focusing its support on selected industrial sectors. More than 20 projects have been cofunded by the State Committee of Science in targeted branches: pharmaceuticals, medicine and biotechnology, agricultural mechanization and machine building, electronics, engineering, chemistry and, in particular, the sphere of information technology.\n\nOver the past decade, the government has made an effort to encourage science–industry linkages. The Armenian information technology sector has been particularly active: a number of public–private partnerships have been established between companies and universities, in order to give students marketable skills and generate innovative ideas at the interface of science and business. Examples are Synopsys Inc. and the Enterprise Incubator Foundation.\n\nIn medieval times University of Gladzor and University of Tatev took an important role for whole Armenia.\n\nA literacy rate of 100% was reported as early as 1960. In the communist era, Armenian education followed the standard Soviet model of complete state control (from Moscow) of curricula and teaching methods and close integration of education activities with other aspects of society, such as politics, culture, and the economy.\n\nIn the 1988–89 school year, 301 students per 10,000 population were in specialized secondary or higher education, a figure slightly lower than the Soviet average. In 1989 some 58% of Armenians over age fifteen had completed their secondary education, and 14% had a higher education. In the 1990–91 school year, the estimated 1,307 primary and secondary schools were attended by 608,800 students. Another seventy specialised secondary institutions had 45,900 students, and 68,400 students were enrolled in a total of ten postsecondary institutions that included universities. In addition, 35% of eligible children attended preschools. In 1992 Armenia's largest institution of higher learning, Yerevan State University, had eighteen departments, including ones for social sciences, sciences, and law. Its faculty numbered about 1,300 teachers and its student population about 10,000 students. The National Polytechnic University of Armenia is operating since 1933.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Armenia made substantial changes to the centralised and regimented Soviet system. Because at least 98% of students in higher education were Armenian, curricula began to emphasise Armenian history and culture. Armenian became the dominant language of instruction, and many schools that had taught in Russian closed by the end of 1991. Russian was still widely taught, however, as a second language.\n\nIn 2014, the National Program for Educational Excellence embarked on creating an internationally competitive and academically rigorous alternative educational program (the Araratian Baccalaureate) for Armenian schools and increase the importance and status of the teacher's role in society.\n\nThe Ministry of Education and Science is responsible for regulation of the sector.\n\nPrimary and secondary education in Armenia is free, and completion of secondary school is compulsory.\n\nHigh education in Armenia is harmonized with Bologna process.\n\nArmenian National Academy of Sciences plays important role in postgraduate education.\n\nSchooling takes 12 years in Armenia and breaks down into primary (4 years), middle (5 years) and high school (3 years). Schools engage a 10-grade mark system.\n\nInteresting feature of primary and secondary education is obligatory schooling in chess playing.\n\nUWC Dilijan, Ayb School and QSI International School of Yerevan are private primary and secondary schools.\n\nTumo Center for Creative Technologies is one of the most prominent auxiliary education concepts in Armenia.\n\nArmath laboratories are a prominent concept for engaging pupils into studying technical sciences and applied technologies.\n\nTeach for Armenia is works towards the improvement of primary and secondary education enrollment in regions of Armenia.\n\nThe Government also supports Armenian schools outside of Armenia.\n\nList of universities in Armenia includes many other.\n\nThe American University of Armenia has graduate programs in Business and Law, among others. The institution owes its existence to the combined efforts of the Government of Armenia, the Armenian General Benevolent Union, US Agency for International Development, and the University of California. The extension programs and the library at AUA form a new focal point for English-language intellectual life in the city. Armenia also hosts a deployment of One Laptop per Child initiative.\n\nOn the basis of the expansion and development of Yerevan State University a number of higher educational independent Institutions were formed including Medical Institute separated in 1930 which was set up on the basis of medical faculty. In 1980 Yerevan State Medical University was awarded one of the main rewards of the former USSR – the Order of Labor red Banner for training qualified specialists in health care and valuable service in the development of Medical Science. In 1995 YSMI was renamed to YSMU and since 1989 it has been named after Mkhitar Heratsi, the famous medieval doctor. Mkhitar Heratsi was the founder of Armenian Medical school in Cilician Armenia. The great doctor played the same role in Armenian Medical Science as Hippocrates in Western, Galen in Roman, Ibn Sīnā in Arabic medicine.\nForeign students' department for Armenian diaspora established in 1957 later was enlarged and the enrollment of foreign students began. Nowadays the YSMU is a Medical Institution corresponding to international requirements, trains medical staff for not only Armenia and neighbour countries, i.e. Iran, Syria, Lebanon, Georgia, but also many other leading countries all over the world. A great number of foreign students from India, Nepal, Sri Lanka, the USA and Russia study together with Armenian students. Nowadays the university is ranked among famous higher Medical Institutions and takes its honourable place in the World Directory of Medical Schools published by the WHO.\n\nGross enrollment in tertiary education at 44% in 2015 surpassed peer countries of South Caucasus but remained below of the average for Europe and Central Asia.\n\nHowever public spendings per student in tertiary education in GDP-ratio terms is one of the lowest for post-USSR countries (for which data was available).\nArmenia has a population of ( est.) and is the third most densely populated of the former Soviet republics. There has been a problem of population decline due to elevated levels of emigration after the break-up of the USSR. In the past years emigration levels have declined and some population growth is observed since 2012.\nArmenia has a relatively large external diaspora (8 million by some estimates, greatly exceeding the 3 million population of Armenia itself), with communities existing across the globe. The largest Armenian communities outside of Armenia can be found in Russia, France, Iran, the United States, Georgia, Syria, Lebanon,\nAustralia, Canada, Greece, Cyprus, Israel, Poland, Ukraine and Brazil. 40,000 to 70,000 Armenians still live in Turkey (mostly in and around Istanbul).\n\nAbout 1,000 Armenians reside in the Armenian Quarter in the Old City of Jerusalem, a remnant of a once-larger community. Italy is home to the San Lazzaro degli Armeni, an island located in the Venetian Lagoon, which is completely occupied by a monastery run by the Mechitarists, an Armenian Catholic congregation. Approximately 139,000 Armenians live in the de facto independent country Republic of Artsakh where they form a majority.\n\nEthnic Armenians make up 98.1% of the population. Yazidis make up 1.2%, and Russians 0.4%. Other minorities include Assyrians, Ukrainians, Greeks (usually called Caucasus Greeks), Kurds, Georgians, Belarusians, and Jews. There are also smaller communities of Vlachs, Mordvins, Ossetians, Udis, and Tats. Minorities of Poles and Caucasus Germans also exist though they are heavily Russified. , there are an estimated 35,000 Yazidis in Armenia.\n\nDuring the Soviet era, Azerbaijanis were historically the second largest population in the country (forming about 2.5% in 1989). However, due to the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh, virtually all of them emigrated from Armenia to Azerbaijan. Conversely, Armenia received a large influx of Armenian refugees from Azerbaijan, thus giving Armenia a more homogeneous character.\n\nAccording to Gallup research conducted in 2017 Armenia has one of the highest migrant acceptance (welcoming) rates in eastern Europe.\n\nArmenian is the only official language. The main foreign languages that Armenians know are Russian and English. Due to its Soviet past, most of the old population can speak Russian quite well. According to a 2013 survey, 95% of Armenians said they had some knowledge of Russian (24% advanced, 59% intermediate) compared to 40% who said they knew some English (4% advanced, 16% intermediate and 20% beginner). However, more adults (50%) think that English should be taught in public secondary schools than those who prefer Russian (44%).\n\nArmenia was the first nation to adopt Christianity as a state religion, an event traditionally dated to AD 301.\n\nThe predominant religion in Armenia is Christianity. The roots of the Armenian Church go back to the 1st century. According to tradition, the Armenian Church was founded by two of Jesus' twelve apostles – Thaddaeus and Bartholomew – who preached Christianity in Armenia between AD 40–60. Because of these two founding apostles, the official name of the Armenian Church is Armenian Apostolic Church.\n\nOver 93% of Armenian Christians belong to the Armenian Apostolic Church, a form of Oriental (Non-Chalcedonian) Orthodoxy, which is a very ritualistic, conservative church, roughly comparable to the Coptic and Syriac churches. The Armenian Apostolic Church is in communion only with a group of churches within Oriental Orthodoxy.\n\nThe Armenian Evangelical Church has a very sizeable and favourable presence among the life of Armenians with over several thousand members throughout the country. It traces its roots back to 1846 which was under patronage of the Armenian Patriarchate of Constantinople the aim of which was to train qualified clergy for the Armenian Apostolic Church.\n\nOther Christian denominations practising faith based on Nicene Creed in Armenia are the Pentecostal branches of Protestant community such as the Word of Life, the Armenian Brotherhood Church, the Baptists which are known as of the oldest existing denominations in Armenia and were permitted by the authorities of Soviet Union, and Presbyterians.\n\nCatholics also exist in Armenia, both Latin rite and Armenian rite Catholics. The Mechitarists (also spelled \"Mekhitarists\" ), are a congregation of Benedictine monks of the Armenian Catholic Church founded in 1712 by Mekhitar of Sebaste. They are best known for their series of scholarly publications of ancient Armenian versions of otherwise lost ancient Greek texts.\n\nThe Armenian Catholic denomination is headquartered in Bzoummar, Lebanon.\n\nArmenia is home to a Russian community of Molokans which practice a form of Spiritual Christianity originated from the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nThe Yazidis, who live in the western part of the country, practice Yazidism. , the world's largest Yazidi temple is under construction in the small village of Aknalish. There are also Kurds who practice Sunni Islam.\n\nThere is a Jewish community in Armenia diminished to 750 persons since independence with most emigrants leaving for Israel. There are currently two synagogues in Armenia – in the capital, Yerevan, and in the city of Sevan located near Lake Sevan.\n\nSee Health in Armenia.\n\nArmenians have their own distinctive alphabet and language. The alphabet was invented in AD 405 by Mesrop Mashtots and consists of thirty-nine letters, three of which were added during the Cilician period. 96% of the people in the country speak Armenian, while 75.8% of the population additionally speaks Russian, although English is becoming increasingly popular.\n\nTelevision, magazines, and newspapers are all operated by both state-owned and for-profit corporations which depend on advertising, subscription, and other sales-related revenues. The Constitution of Armenia guarantees freedom of speech and Armenia ranks 78th in the 2015 Press Freedom Index report compiled by Reporters Without Borders, between Lesotho and Sierra Leone.\nAs a country in transition, Armenia's media system is under transformation.\n\nFrequent attacks on journalists of non-state sponsored media is a serious threat to Armenia's press freedom. The number of assaults has recently declined, but the physical integrity of journalists remain at stake.\n\nArmenian music is a mix of indigenous folk music, perhaps best-represented by Djivan Gasparyan's well-known duduk music, as well as light pop, and extensive Christian music.\n\nInstruments like the duduk, dhol, zurna, and kanun are commonly found in Armenian folk music. Artists such as Sayat Nova are famous due to their influence in the development of Armenian folk music. One of the oldest types of Armenian music is the Armenian chant which is the most common kind of religious music in Armenia. Many of these chants are ancient in origin, extending to pre-Christian times, while others are relatively modern, including several composed by Saint Mesrop Mashtots, the inventor of the Armenian alphabet. Whilst under Soviet rule, the Armenian classical music composer Aram Khatchaturian became internationally well known for his music, for various ballets and the Sabre Dance from his composition for the ballet Gayane.\nThe Armenian Genocide caused widespread emigration that led to the settlement of Armenians in various countries in the world. Armenians kept to their traditions and certain diasporans rose to fame with their music. In the post-Genocide Armenian community of the United States, the so-called \"kef\" style Armenian dance music, using Armenian and Middle Eastern folk instruments (often electrified/amplified) and some western instruments, was popular. This style preserved the folk songs and dances of Western Armenia, and many artists also played the contemporary popular songs of Turkey and other Middle Eastern countries from which the Armenians emigrated.\n\nRichard Hagopian is perhaps the most famous artist of the traditional \"kef\" style and the Vosbikian Band was notable in the 1940s and 1950s for developing their own style of \"kef music\" heavily influenced by the popular American Big Band Jazz of the time. Later, stemming from the Middle Eastern Armenian diaspora and influenced by Continental European (especially French) pop music, the Armenian pop music genre grew to fame in the 1960s and 1970s with artists such as Adiss Harmandian and Harout Pamboukjian performing to the Armenian diaspora and Armenia; also with artists such as Sirusho, performing pop music combined with Armenian folk music in today's entertainment industry.\n\nOther Armenian diasporans that rose to fame in classical or international music circles are world-renowned French-Armenian singer and composer Charles Aznavour, pianist Sahan Arzruni, prominent opera sopranos such as Hasmik Papian and more recently Isabel Bayrakdarian and Anna Kasyan. Certain Armenians settled to sing non-Armenian tunes such as the heavy metal band System of a Down (which nonetheless often incorporates traditional Armenian instrumentals and styling into their songs) or pop star Cher. In the Armenian diaspora, Armenian revolutionary songs are popular with the youth. These songs encourage Armenian patriotism and are generally about Armenian history and national heroes.\n\nYerevan Vernissage (arts and crafts market), close to Republic Square, bustles with hundreds of vendors selling a variety of crafts on weekends and Wednesdays (though the selection is much reduced mid-week). The market offers woodcarving, antiques, fine lace, and the hand-knotted wool carpets and kilims that are a Caucasus speciality. Obsidian, which is found locally, is crafted into assortment of jewellery and ornamental objects. Armenian gold smithery enjoys a long tradition, populating one corner of the market with a selection of gold items. Soviet relics and souvenirs of recent Russian manufacture – nesting dolls, watches, enamel boxes and so on – are also available at the Vernisage.\n\nAcross from the Opera House, a popular art market fills another city park on the weekends. Armenia’s long history as a crossroads of the ancient world has resulted in a landscape with innumerable fascinating archaeological sites to explore. Medieval, Iron Age, Bronze Age and even Stone Age sites are all within a few hours drive from the city. All but the most spectacular remain virtually undiscovered, allowing visitors to view churches and fortresses in their original settings.\n\nThe National Art Gallery in Yerevan has more than 16,000 works that date back to the Middle Ages, which indicate Armenia's rich tales and stories of the times. It houses paintings by many European masters as well. The Modern Art Museum, the Children’s Picture Gallery, and the Martiros Saryan Museum are only a few of the other noteworthy collections of fine art on display in Yerevan. Moreover, many private galleries are in operation, with many more opening every year, featuring rotating exhibitions and sales.\n\nOn 13 April 2013, the Armenian government announced a change in law to allow freedom of panorama for 3D works of art.\n\nCinema in Armenia was born on April 16, 1923, when the Armenian State Committee of Cinema was established by a decree of the Soviet Armenian government.\n\nHowever, the first Armenian film with Armenian subject called \"Haykakan Sinema\" was produced earlier in 1912 in Cairo by Armenian-Egyptian publisher Vahan Zartarian. The film was premiered in Cairo on March 13, 1913.\n\nIn March 1924, the first Armenian film studio; \"Armenfilm\" ( \"Hayfilm,\" \"Armenkino\") was established in Yerevan, starting with a documentary film called \"Soviet Armenia\".\n\n\"Namus\" was the first Armenian silent black-and-white film, directed by Hamo Beknazarian in 1925, based on a play of Alexander Shirvanzade, describing the ill fate of two lovers, who were engaged by their families to each other since childhood, but because of violations of \"namus\" (a tradition of honor), the girl was married by her father to another person. The first sound film, \"Pepo\" was shot in 1935, director Hamo Beknazarian.\n\nA wide array of sports are played in Armenia, the most popular among them being wrestling, weightlifting, judo, association football, chess, and boxing. Armenia's mountainous terrain provides great opportunities for the practice of sports like skiing and climbing. Being a landlocked country, water sports can only be practised on lakes, notably Lake Sevan. Competitively, Armenia has been successful in chess, weightlifting and wrestling at the international level. Armenia is also an active member of the international sports community, with full membership in the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) and International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF). It also hosts the Pan-Armenian Games.\n\nPrior to 1992, Armenians would participate in the Olympics representing the USSR. As part of the Soviet Union, Armenia was very successful, winning plenty of medals and helping the USSR win the medal standings at the Olympics on numerous occasions. The first medal won by an Armenian in modern Olympic history was by Hrant Shahinyan (sometimes spelled as Grant Shaginyan), who won two golds and two silvers in gymnastics at the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki. To highlight the level of success of Armenians in the Olympics, Shahinyan was quoted as saying:\n\n\"Armenian sportsmen had to outdo their opponents by several notches for the shot at being accepted into any Soviet team. But those difficulties notwithstanding, 90 percent of Armenian athletes on Soviet Olympic teams came back with medals.\"\n\nArmenia first participated at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona under a unified CIS team, where it was very successful, winning three golds and one silver in weightlifting, wrestling and sharp shooting, despite only having five athletes. Since the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, Armenia has participated as an independent nation.\n\nArmenia participates in the Summer Olympic Games in boxing, wrestling, weightlifting, judo, gymnastics, track and field, diving, swimming and sharp shooting. It also participates in the Winter Olympic Games in alpine skiing, cross-country skiing and figure skating.\nFootball is also popular in Armenia. The most successful team was the FC Ararat Yerevan team of the 1970s who won the Soviet Cup in 1973 and 1975 and the Soviet Top League in 1973. The latter achievement saw FC Ararat gain entry to the European Cup where – despite a home victory in the second leg – they lost on aggregate at the quarter final stage to eventual winner FC Bayern Munich. Armenia competed internationally as part of the USSR national football team until the Armenian national football team was formed in 1992 after the split of the Soviet Union. Armenia have never qualified for a major tournament although recent improvements saw the team to achieve 44th position in the FIFA World Rankings in September 2011. The national team is controlled by the Football Federation of Armenia. The Armenian Premier League is the highest level football competition in Armenia, and has been dominated by FC Pyunik in recent seasons. The league currently consists of eight teams and relegates to the Armenian First League.\n\nArmenia and the Armenian diaspora have produced many successful footballers, including Youri Djorkaeff, Alain Boghossian, Andranik Eskandarian, Andranik Teymourian, Edgar Manucharyan and Nikita Simonyan. Djokaeff and Boghossian won the 1998 FIFA World Cup with France, Andranik Teymourian competed in the 2006 World Cup for Iran and Edgar Manucharyan played in the Dutch Eredivisie for Ajax.\n\nWrestling has been a successful sport in the Olympics for Armenia. At the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Armen Nazaryan won the gold in the Men's Greco-Roman Flyweight (52 kg) category and Armen Mkrtchyan won the silver in Men's Freestyle Paperweight (48 kg) category, securing Armenia's first two medals in its Olympic history.\n\nTraditional Armenian wrestling is called Kokh and practised in traditional garb; it was one of the influences included in the Soviet combat sport of Sambo, which is also very popular.\n\nThe government of Armenia budgets about $2.8 million annually for sports and gives it to the National Committee of Physical Education and Sports, the body that determines which programs should benefit from the funds.\n\nDue to the lack of success lately on the international level, in recent years, Armenia has rebuilt 16 Soviet-era sports schools and furnished them with new equipment for a total cost of $1.9 million. The rebuilding of the regional schools was financed by the Armenian government. $9.3 million has been invested in the resort town of Tsaghkadzor to improve the winter sports infrastructure because of dismal performances at recent winter sports events. In 2005, a cycling centre was opened in Yerevan with the aim of helping produce world class Armenian cyclists. The government has also promised a cash reward of $700,000 to Armenians who win a gold medal at the Olympics.\n\nArmenia has also been very successful in chess, winning the World Champion in 2011 and the World Chess Olympiad on three occasions.\n\nArmenian cuisine is closely related to eastern and Mediterranean cuisine; various spices, vegetables, fish, and fruits combine to present unique dishes. The main characteristics of Armenian cuisine are a reliance on the quality of the ingredients rather than heavily spicing food, the use of herbs, the use of wheat in a variety of forms, of legumes, nuts, and fruit (as a main ingredient as well as to sour food), and the stuffing of a wide variety of leaves.\n\nThe pomegranate, with its symbolic association with fertility, represents that nation. The apricot is the national fruit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "783858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=783858", "title": "Bell TV", "text": "Bell TV\n\nBell TV (; formerly known as Bell ExpressVu, Dish Network Canada, ExpressVu Dish Network, and now sometimes known as Bell Satellite TV to distinguish the service from Bell's IPTV Fibe TV service), is the division of BCE Inc. that provides satellite television service across Canada. It launched on September 10, 1997 and as of 2004 it has been providing \"Bell TV for Condos\", a VDSL service provided to select multidwelling units (condominiums and apartments) in Montreal, Ottawa and Toronto. Bell TV provides over 500 digital video and 100 HD and audio channels to, as of May 2010, over 1.8 million subscribers. Its major competitors include satellite service Shaw Direct, as well as various cable and communications companies across Canada, such as Rogers Cable, EastLink, Shaw Communications, Vidéotron and Cogeco.\n\nBell TV services are also repackaged and resold by Telus as Telus Satellite TV, in areas where the latter company's Optik IPTV services are unavailable.\n\nExpressVu was conceived in 1994, at the time of American DSS systems launch, as a consortium of Ontario-based Tee-Comm Electronics, Canadian Satellite Communications (Cancom), Vancouver-based Western International Communications (WIC) and Bell Canada Enterprises (BCE), with a projected startup date of late 1995. High technology development costs and delays placed Tee-Comm in a severe financial position, prompting the remaining partners to pull out in 1996. Instead, U.S. satellite-TV provider Echostar Dish Network was chosen to provide the receivers and uplink equipment. The Hughes DirecTV system had already been optioned to Power Broadcasting, in Canada; it has since been withdrawn. Tee-Comm on its own managed to launch the first DBS service in Canada, AlphaStar, in early 1997; however, in a matter of months the company went bankrupt and the service was discontinued, leaving thousands of consumers with useless receivers (although with some reconfiguration, could be used to receive unencrypted FTA channels). ExpressVu launched service in September 1997, initially as \"\"Dish Network Canada\", followed by \"ExpressVu Dish Network\"\", in both cases using the Echostar logo.\n\nBell took over full ownership of ExpressVu by 2000.\n\nThe ExpressVu name was retired in August 2008 along with the Today Just Got Better advertising campaign. Bell's television services as a whole are now simply called Bell TV. When disambiguation is required, the satellite service is called Bell Satellite TV.\n\nPlans have been shelved for any additional ExpressVu satellite expenditures assuming pending CRTC and Industry Canada approval for Dish Network to use all 32 transponders on Nimiq 5. As a result of this, SES has announced that they will not be replacing the ill-fated AMC-14 now that Dish Network has cut this deal with Telesat & BCE for Nimiq 5 usage.\n\nIn 2009, Telus reached a deal to resell a re-packaged version of the Bell TV service in parts of Alberta and British Columbia known as Telus Satellite TV. The agreement was designed to allow Telus the ability to \"instantly\" offer a quadruple play of services in markets where it has not yet deployed its IPTV services, while also allowing Bell to increase its television market share in Western Canada. The Telus-branded service co-exists with the Bell-branded version of Bell TV, which is still offered in the markets that Telus Satellite TV is offered.\n\nIn 2012, Bell changed satellite plans in Ontario. They are now sold in packages called \"Good\", \"Better\" and \"Best\" similarly to its competitor Rogers Cable in that region. Channels in the \"Best\" tier can still be purchased in theme packages, and existing customers with older plans are grandfathered. This also does not affect other regions such as Quebec, where there are different types of plans. Along with these changes, Bell discontinued sales and rentals of its final standard-definition television (SDTV) receiver, the 4100 model. Customers who still have an older SDTV with an AV input (or peripheral modulator) can use an HD receiver, but the quality will be limited to 480i due to technical limitations.\n\nBell TV broadcasts from two geostationary satellites: \"Nimiq 4 and 6\". \"Nimiq 4\" was launched on September 19, 2008, and \"Nimiq 6\" was launched on May 17, 2012. Both satellites follow an equatorial path, giving coverage to most of Canada. \"Nimiq\" is an Inuktitut word for \"that which unifies\" and was chosen from a nationwide naming contest in 1998. The two satellites are owned and operated by Telesat Canada. Bell's uplink site is located in North York, Toronto, Ontario.\n\n\"Nimiq 4\", located at 82° W primarily serves Bell's high-definition television content. \"Nimiq 6\", located at 91.1° W primarily serves Bell's standard-definition television and radio content. Each satellite has 32 Ku-band transponders. A transponder usually has enough bandwidth to broadcast approximately 10 channels. Because HDTV requires more bandwidth, some transponders typically broadcast only 4-5 channels. LyngSat provides a listing of channels on \"Nimiq 4\" and \"Nimiq 6\" broken down by transponder.\n\n\"Nimiq 1\" was launched on May 20, 1999 and contains 32 Ku-band transponders. at 91° W. (From the time of service launch in 1997 to the switch to \"Nimiq\" in 1999, ExpressVu used the already crowded \"Anik E2\".) \"Nimiq 2\", launched on December 29, 2002, also includes 32 K-band transponders. \"Nimiq 2\" provides HDTV, international programming, and all newly released channels. It occupies the 82° W slot. \"Nimiq 3\" went online on August 23, 2004. Originally called \"DirecTV3\", it is an old DirecTV satellite moved to a new orbital slot near \"Nimiq 1\" to offload some of the transmitting work from the original satellite. In February 2006, \"Nimiq 3\" was moved behind \"Nimiq 2\" to support it, while another satellite, \"Nimiq 4i\" (formerly \"DirecTV2\"), took \"Nimiq 3\"'s spot behind \"Nimiq 1\". \"Nimiq 4i\" was replaced with \"Nimiq 4iR\" as it ran out of fuel on April 28, 2007 and was de-orbited. Both \"Nimiq 3\" and \"Nimiq 4iR\" feature 16 Ku-band transponders. \"Nimiq 4\" was launched by a Proton rocket which lifted off on September 19, 2008 at 21:48 UTC.\n\nBell TV satellite receivers are manufactured for Echostar by Sanmina-SCI in Guadalajara, Mexico. Two different high-definition television (HDTV) receivers are currently provided, with either optional or built-in personal video recorder (PVR) capabilities:\n\nBell has discontinued older receivers which either only supported standard-definition television (SDTV) or included a series of features that newer receivers no longer offer. Receivers discontinued by Bell include the 4100, Bell's last standard-definition television (SDTV) receiver sold until March 2012. It is compact and provides coaxial cable, composite video, S-Video and TOSLINK outputs. It had no built-in PVR capabilities, requiring an external device such as a videocassette recorder (VCR) or DVD recorder to record shows. Prior to this, Bell discontinued the 5900 single tuner SDTV PVR receiver with a built-in hard drive to record up to 80 hours of programming. Features absent in Bell's current receivers but available in older receivers include picture-in-picture (watching two channels simultaneously on one TV) and a tuner for over-the-air programming (OTA programming) support. Having an OTA tuner can potentially allow access to unavailable or optional channels such as those of American networks.\n\nCurrent HD receivers support the 480i, 480p, 720p and 1080i resolutions. 1080p is not supported, despite claims to the contrary by Bell. To allow backward compatibility with older SDTVs and due to the fact that non-HD receivers are no longer sold, HD receivers are compatible with a composite video or S-Video connection. A separate adapter is required for legacy coaxial cable connections. All three methods only provide a 480i resolution due to technical limitations. The star (*) and PAGE UP buttons of the remote add a zoom, partial zoom, stretch or gray bars. The purpose of the latter is to prevent burn-in on plasma televisions.\n\nMany types of remotes have been released over the years. Models 1000 and 2700 came out with very basic infrared (IR) remotes that could be used only to control the receivers themselves and would operate on all 16 remote addresses. Replacement remotes then came with universal functions allowing users to control the power and volume of their televisions along with VCRs and sound system receivers; these remotes can only operate on a single address at a time. Models equipped with a UHF antenna can respond to UHF remotes; these remotes use radio frequencies rather than IR signals to control the receivers. UHF signals can reach up to 30 meters, depending on the restrictions of building materials. All UHF-compatible receivers can simultaneously respond to IR signals except for model 4500. For this model, modification directions exist on the Internet to add IR receiving capability, in order for the receiver to respond to programmable universal remotes. Remote #2 of the 3200, 5200, 9200, and the remote for model 6100 are based on \"UHF Pro\". \"UHF Pro\" remotes are strictly compatible with the receivers they are provided with and do not function on regular UHF-compatible receivers. Additionally, \"UHF Pro\" remotes can only communicate with UHF frequencies and cannot control receivers via IR. To prevent interference with other UHF remotes in proximity, clients should change their remote addresses. All secondary remotes for dual tuners may also be converted to remote #1 by flipping the plastic bottom of the remote. This also switches its transmission mode from UHF Pro to regular UHF and IR, similar to how a 5900 remote operates.\n\nBell TV currently provides 50 cm (20\") dishes to its customers. Canadians living in the territories and certain parts of British Columbia and northern mainland portion of Newfoundland and Labrador require larger dishes between 60 and 120 cm; these are used to compensate for the weaker satellite signal available to these regions. The 50 cm dish supports two LNBs. The size of the dish was increased from 18 to 20 inches in late 2001 to accommodate a second LNB to acquire signal from \"Nimiq 2\" (BEV 82) satellite. At the end of the dish's arm, a Y-adapter is found which holds both LNBs. The BEV 91 LNB is in the centre of the dish while the BEV 82 LNB is offset to the left. Rotating the dish (i.e., modifying the skew angle) changes the position of the 82 LNB while maintaining position for BEV 91. A switchbox, typically an SW21 or SW44, is used to merge both satellite signals into receivers.\n\nTo authorize programming, a portable smartcard is used for older receivers. This includes the 1000, 2700, 2800, 3000, 3100, 3500, 3700, 4000, 4500, 4700, 5100, 5800, 5900 and the 6000. In some cases, Bell TV has switched back to using standard smartcards for the 6100 9200 and 9400 receivers.\n\nIn February 2008, Bell TV announced a second smartcard swap involving all its receivers with the exception of the 6141 and 9241 models. This was required due to the massive intrusion of ExpressVu signals that occurred with the Nagravision 2 encryption. The latter standard was implemented on May 27, 2005, to end the unlicensed access that occurred with the first Nagravision system.\n\nBell TV has upgraded to Nagravision 3 as the new encryption standard, to prevent unauthorized access to pay TV channels. The only means to view Bell TV illegally is through IKS (Internet Key Sharing) devices which include NFusion FTA and the Slinger. Both devices are not hacks but only means of a workaround. Bell TV is currently working towards shutting down these types of devices. No known hacks exist for the Nagravision 3 protocol.\n\nNewer receivers incorporate smartchips instead, which are permanently installed inside the receiver. According to Bell Tech Support, a 4100 with smartchip will require a newer smartcard upgrade.\n\nIn 2009, Bell 6000 receiver owners received letters in the mail that state they must swap to a 6141 or face losing programming as Bell TV deployed MPEG-4 with 8PSK. The 6000 does support the use of 8PSK with an add-in module, but Bell TV decided not to send out these as the 6000 is old and most customers will be wanting to upgrade to a 6141 which can have a hard disk drive added to it to be used as a PVR. The guide for programming information is also updated and stores more information in its database than the 6000.\n\nLater, starting in October 2011, Bell announced that it would replace all currently active MPEG-2 HD satellite receivers, specifically the 6100 and 9200 models, with MPEG-4 HD receivers. This is to allow current HD channels to be encoded in MPEG-4 instead of MPEG-2, providing free space for 43 additional local standard definition channels which will begin airing in September 2012. 6100 owners will receive the latest 6131 HD receiver, while 9200 owners will receive either a 9241 or a 9242. If the 9200 receiver was used for two televisions, Bell will provide either a 9241 with a 5900 or a 9242. Both setups permit the two televisions to watch Bell TV but recording and playback with the 5900 does not equal the 9200 for the second TV. About 240 000 receivers in 193 000 homes will be replaced.\n\n3D television (3DTV) is available across Canada with Bell TV. The 2010 Masters Tournament on Bell TV was the first national 3D broadcast, making Bell TV the first Canadian satellite television service to broadcast in 3D. Content will be available free of charge to Bell HDTV subscribers, although a 3D HDTV and 3D glasses are required to view 3D programming.\n\nBell normally provides free installation to new customers for their first PVR in exchange of a two-year contract. There is still a one-time activation fee of no more than $50 to pay. On Bell Media television channels, Bell advertises this as \"One phone call can get you set up as early as tomorrow.\"\n\nOne to four receivers are typically connected to a single satellite dish. Setting up a greater number of receivers is more complicated and costly, so Bell does not provide setup in such circumstances. Customers are free to set up more than four receivers at their own risk. This also applies to any self-installed equipment such as second-hand receivers. Bell's receiver limits can prove to be challenging for larger homes or multi-family residential units because landlords tend to prohibit the installation of more than one satellite dish.\n\nResidential accounts are limited to a maximum of six (6) receivers per account, but each of them can be a dual tuner receiver; therefore up to 12 televisions can be served however the current receiver lineup offered by Bell does not support 2 televisions as the 9242 receiver was discontinued. Account stacking, which consists of having receivers on one account located in different locations, is contrary to the Bell TV Residential and Commercial Agreements. It is certainly not illegal, and in a worst-case scenario, service will be cancelled. This practice is detailed in CRTC Public Notice 2006-133 and 2006-134. There is no requirement whatsoever in the Regulations that prohibits a BDU (broadcast distribution undertaking) from providing service at more than one location via a single account. Bell has mostly focused on improving its satellite signal reception in Canada while seeking to prevent snowbirds from accessing this signal. The use of Bell TV services in the United States is not illegal, but it remains a controversial issue.\n\nCurrent and many past receiver models support interactive services, branded as iTV, offering information services for weather and sports. When watching The Weather Network, for example, one can select their local city to receive detailed information about that city's weather conditions. For sports such as NFL Sunday Ticket or NHL Centre Ice, iTV allows fans to simultaneously keep track of multiple games. This means that when the watcher is concentrating on one single game, they will be notified if the score changes for other games.\n\nBasic video games, lottery results and horoscopes were previously available as Bell TV interactive services. Pornography-themed video games were also offered in the past via Bell's sex industry brand, Venus. These services have been discontinued as part of the Today Just Got Better rebranding. Wireless game controllers, sold for use with Game Galaxy and Venus Games, have been cleared out for the price of $4.99 each at Bell-owned The Source.\n\nPay-per-view (PPV) events may be ordered either via the receiver itself with a remote control and phone line connection, via Bell's website, or via an automated phone system. Regular movies tend to cost less, while adult and sports programming have a higher cost. Channel 299 previously featured classic movies at 99 cents each, but this channel has been pulled off the air in 2011. Bell TV carries movies recently released on DVD along with major sporting events including boxing, WWE and Ultimate Fighting Championship. Red Carpet Vu! is a Pay-per-view movie service broadcast in a group of up to ten different channels where a daily featured movie starts every fifteen minutes.\n\nSome customers have the misconception that the optional phone line, when plugged into the receiver, is used for software downloads and programming changes. In fact, the only information the line receives, if available from and supported by the phone line, consists of caller ID informations displayed in a pop-up notification for the viewer's convenience when a phone call is being received. The phone line simply automates the process of ordering pay-per-view by dialing out the Event ID and other information that would be requested by manually calling the pay-per-view phone system.\n\nBell TV provides technical support 24/7, however it will only support its products. Any type of picture troubleshooting must be done with a direct connection from the receiver to the television. For new customers, the first receiver is normally installed at no cost to the customer.\n\nAll labour for installations is only under warranty for three (3) months. Receivers are under warranty for as long as they are rented. Purchased equipment comes with a default warranty of one year with the option of taking an extended warranty. Only manufacturer's defects will warrant replacement of a dish under coverage, as a strict policy is in place regarding \"Acts of God\" and dish damage, which includes violent weather disabling a dish or mis-aligning it, as well as any physical modifications by the customer such as painting the dish.\n\nAlthough Bell Satellite TV continues to be Bell's most widespread method of watching television in Canada, the company also offers IPTV and mobile television services where available.\n\nThe Bell Fibe TV service is an implementation of IPTV that uses VDSL to deliver television service via telephone lines. Early versions of this service was originally deployed as \"Bell ExpressVu for Condos\" to get around restrictions regarding the mounting of satellite dishes. The original service was trialled using \"NextLevel Communications\" (now part of Motorola) set-top boxes that receive television broadcasts over VDSL in ATM form. The network infrastructure can support large amounts of bandwidth (typically 25 Mbit/s, as of January 2012) and is available in certain cities, including Toronto, Ottawa, Montreal and Quebec City.\n\nSince October 18, 2010, Bell Mobility allows smartphones and tablet computers on either its HSPA+ or LTE network to access Mobile TV. Virgin Mobile Canada customers can also access Mobile TV. Similar systems by Bell in the past used the phased-out CDMA network. Unlimited access via Wi-Fi was previously available, but has since been discontinued. The service is billed per hour, and customers do not pay any additional fees.\n\nBell TV currently features over 500 channels including all major Canadian & American networks, premium movie services, Vu! pay-per-view service, music radio, sports, international and adult programming. The company provides over 100 High Definition channels, which used to be the most in Canada, until Shaw Direct launched its new satellite Anik G1 on May 29, 2013, giving Shaw Direct customers access to over 210 HD channels. Bell TV's programming changes constantly.\n\nBell TV produced a monthly magazine called \"Show\" (the French version is called \"Extra\"). Show debuted in September 2007, and replaced Bell TV Magazine, the previous name for the customer publication from ExpressVu.\n\nShow was delivered to over 800,000 Bell TV customers and showcases entertainment from Canada, Hollywood and around the world.\n\nShow Magazine and Extra had been cancelled by Bell TV to save paper in early 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "4463725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4463725", "title": "Botswana Agricultural Marketing Board Workers' Union", "text": "Botswana Agricultural Marketing Board Workers' Union\n\nThe Botswana Agricultural Marketing Board Workers' Union (BAMBWU) is a trade union affiliate of the Botswana Federation of Trade Unions in Botswana.\n\n"}
{"id": "24919167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24919167", "title": "Burundi–China relations", "text": "Burundi–China relations\n\nDiplomatic relations between the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Burundi were established on December 21, 1963 under Chairman Mao Zedong and King Mwambutsa IV Bangiriceng, respectively. King Mwambutsa broke off diplomatic relations with China in 1965, although they were restored under Michel Micombero the first President of Burundi, on October 31, 1971. Since then, China has provided development aid to Burundi, including helping with the construction of a textiles mill in Bujumbura. As of 2002, China exported $2.718 worth of goods, while importing only $491,000 worth of goods from Burundi. The current Chinese ambassador to Burundi is Feng Zhijun.\n\nSince the first Forum on China Africa Cooperation in 2000, Beijing has delivered over $164 million in Official Development Assistance to Burundi. This amount includes funds for the construction of a presidential palace, $9 million for construction of a hospital in Bubanza Province, and three debt cancellation agreements.\n"}
{"id": "30469524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30469524", "title": "Carezza Dolomites", "text": "Carezza Dolomites\n\nCarezza Dolomites is a vacation area situated in South Tyrol in the Italian Alps at the feet of the mountains Rosengarten and Latemar. The closest villages are Welschnofen and Karersee (Italian: \"Carezza\").\n\nWelschnofen is the main village (1,182 m) with a lot of accommodation possibilities, shops, restaurants and bars. Karersee is part of the \"comune\" of Welschnofen and lies 1,600 m above sea level at the foot of the famous Dolomites mountains Rosengarten and Latemar. Here you can find also several accommodations and possibilities to stop.\n\nIn summer the Carezza Dolomites area is known for the numerous hiking possibilities – about 116 km of perfectly signposted paths lead to mountain huts, inns and alps.\n\nThere are simple trails with panoramic view or for discerning people valley- and mountain-crossings, vie ferrate and climbing routes from the II. to the V.+ difficulty level. Hiking is possible from springtime to autumn and every season has his own attractions. To give variety to the vacation it’s also possible to go mountain biking, golfing, horse riding, swimming.\n\nIn winter, the Skiarea Carezza offers 100% guarantee of snow-sure skiing in the UNESCO World Natural Heritage of the Dolomites. With 40 perfectly groomed kilometers of slopes of varying degrees of diffi culty the Ski area Carezza offers skiing, carving, snowboarding and telemarking adventures of the highest quality for old and young in the unique landscape of the Dolomites.\n\nIt’s also possible to discover the mountain world not only by skiing: a lot of other leisure activities like winter hiking, sledging, cross country skiing, snow shoe hiking or ski tours complete the winter holiday experience.\n"}
{"id": "1863849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1863849", "title": "Cepelinai", "text": "Cepelinai\n\nCepelinai ( 'zeppelins'; singular: \"cepelinas\") or didžkukuliai is a traditional Lithuanian dish of stuffed potato dumplings. The dumplings are made from grated and riced potatoes and stuffed with ground meat or dry curd cheese or mushrooms. It has been described as a national dish of Lithuania, and is typically served as an entree.\n\nSo named because their shape resembles that of a Zeppelin airship, cepelinai are typically around 10–20 cm long, although the size depends on where they are made: in the western counties of Lithuania cepelinai are made bigger than in the east.\n\nAfter boiling, the \"cepelinai\" are often served with sour cream sauce and bacon bits or pork rinds.\n\nIn Poland, it is known as kartacz. It is a part of the cuisine of Podlachia. \n\nSimilar dishes include Polish pyzy, Swedish kroppkaka, Acadian poutine râpée, Norwegian raspeball and German Kartoffelklöße.\n\n"}
{"id": "532843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=532843", "title": "Committee for Non-Violent Action", "text": "Committee for Non-Violent Action\n\nThe Committee for Non-Violent Action (CNVA) was an American anti-war group, formed in 1957 to resist the US government's program of nuclear weapons testing. It was one of the first organizations to employ nonviolent direct action to protest against the nuclear arms race.\n\nThe CNVA's immediate antecedent, a committee known as Non-Violent Action Against Nuclear Weapons, was formed by radical Quaker Lawrence Scott. Other leaders of the CNVA included A.J. Muste, Albert Bigelow, Bayard Rustin and George Willoughby.\n\nIn August 1957, members of the CNVA were arrested when they attempted to enter the Camp Mercury nuclear testing grounds near Las Vegas, Nevada. In February 1958, Albert Bigelow and the crew of the \"Golden Rule\" were intercepted by the US Coast Guard five nautical miles (9 km) from Honolulu, Hawaii as they attempted to sail their vessel into the Eniwetok Proving Grounds, the US test site in the Marshall Islands. Two further attempts to defy a hastily enacted regulation banning US citizens from sailing to the test site led to the arrest and 60-day imprisonment of the crew.\n\nThe voyage of the \"Golden Rule\" inspired anthropologist Earle L. Reynolds and his family to undertake a similar journey, and on 1 July 1958, their yacht, \"Phoenix of Hiroshima\", entered the test zone at Bikini Atoll. The \"Phoenix\" penetrated into the test area before the vessel was boarded by the Coast Guard and ordered to sail to Kwajalein atoll, where Reynolds was charged with violating the Atomic Energy Commission's new regulation.\n\nIn 1959, CNVA sponsored protests at the construction site of an intercontinental ballistic missile near Omaha, Nebraska. Around 15 protestors, including A.J. Muste and Karl H. Meyer, the son of Vermont Senator William Meyer, were arrested and handcuffed as they climbed the fence to invade the site. They were each sentenced to six months in jail. In 1960, the group co-ordinated nonviolent protests against construction of the nuclear weapons equipped Polaris submarine in New London, Connecticut.\n\nDuring the early 1960s, the CNVA organised two 'Walks for Peace', including a march from San Francisco to Moscow, during which the walkers called on the governments of the world to disarm. During a Walk for Peace from Quebec to Cuba, via Washington, walkers were attacked and jailed as black and white activists walked together through Macon, Georgia. Both walks were led by peace activist Bradford Lyttle. \n\nIn the mid-1960s, CNVA began to focus on the Vietnam War. Activists traveled to Hanoi in Vietnam and picketed the US embassy, and the CNVA advocated tax refusal as a method of resistance.\n\nIn 1968, after the 1967 death of leader A.J. Muste, the CNVA merged with the pacifist War Resisters League.\n\nWhile never a mass-membership organization, the CNVA's pioneering use of nonviolent direct action would have a significant influence on movements to follow. In particular, it was the example set by the voyages of the \"Golden Rule\" and the \"Phoenix\" that would inspire the first Greenpeace activists to use similar methods in their campaigns to halt nuclear testing at the island of Amchitka, Alaska, and at Muraroa Atoll in the Pacific.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36048046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36048046", "title": "Conscript Academic Officer", "text": "Conscript Academic Officer\n\nConscript Academic Officer (Norwegian: Vernepliktig akademisk befal (VAB)) is an arrangement by the Norwegian Military where academics within different professions (doctors, psychologists, pharmacists, dentists etc.) serve their conscription after completing their education. They will then receive lieutenant ranking when they start their military service.\n"}
{"id": "37671246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37671246", "title": "Dacian fortress of Biborțeni", "text": "Dacian fortress of Biborțeni\n\nIt was a Dacian fortified town.\n"}
{"id": "6240277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6240277", "title": "Diese Welt", "text": "Diese Welt\n\n\"Harbang\"harbang\n\"Diese Welt\" (\"This World\") was the German entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1971, performed in German by Katja Ebstein. This was Ebstein's second, consecutive Eurovision entry; she had represented Germany at the 1970 contest with \"Wunder gibt es immer wieder\", which finished 3rd in a field of 12.\n\n\"Diese Welt\" was performed fifth on the night (following Switzerland's Peter, Sue & Marc with \"Les illusions de nos vingt ans\" and preceding Spain's Karina with \"En un mundo nuevo\"). At the close of voting, it had received 100 points, placing 3rd in a field of 18.\n\nThe song deals with the wonder of the world, with Ebstein singing that it \"is a gift which life gave us\" and reminding her listeners that what becomes of it is up to its inhabitants. Ebstein also recorded the song in English (as \"River Run, River Flow\"), French (\"Une autre rivière\") and Spanish (\"Este mundo\").\n\nIt was succeeded as German representative at the 1972 Contest by Mary Roos with \"Nur die Liebe läßt uns leben\". Ebstein returned a third time to the Contest in 1980 with \"Theater\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7764800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7764800", "title": "Directorate-General for Human Resources and Security", "text": "Directorate-General for Human Resources and Security\n\nThe Directorate-General for Human Resources and Security is a Directorate-General of the European Commission.\n\nThe essential mission of the Directorate-General is to ensure the European Commission runs smoothly by laying down its policies on human resources and security.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21368746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21368746", "title": "Eastern Caribbean Currency Union", "text": "Eastern Caribbean Currency Union\n\nThe Eastern Caribbean Currency Union (ECCU) is a development of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States. This organization is composed of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. It is under the supervision of the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank. The member countries use a common currency, the East Caribbean dollar, which is pegged at EC$2.70 to US$1.\n\n"}
{"id": "18197972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18197972", "title": "Ecuador–Russia relations", "text": "Ecuador–Russia relations\n\nEcuador–Russia relations is the bilateral foreign relations between Ecuador and Russia. Ecuador has an embassy in Moscow, and Russia has an embassy in Quito.\n\nEcuador was one of the countries that offered Edward Snowden political asylum while he was in Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3449657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3449657", "title": "Elections in Africa", "text": "Elections in Africa\n\nThis page lists the most recent (direct) national elections in African countries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEritrea, since independence, has repeatedly postponed elections.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLibya does not hold elections, it is a dictatorship\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13432297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13432297", "title": "European Endangered Species Programme", "text": "European Endangered Species Programme\n\nThe European Endangered Species Programme (EEP) is a population management programme for animals of the European Association of Zoos and Aquaria (EAZA). It is one of the worldwide assembly of such regional breeding programs for threatened species in zoos. The North America counterpart is the Species Survival Plan (SSP), while Australian, Japanese and Indian zoos also have similar programs. Combined, there are now many hundred zoos worldwide involved in the regional breeding programs. Each EEP has a coordinator who is assisted by a species committee. The coordinator collects information on the status of all the animals kept in EAZA zoos and aquariums of the species for which he or she is responsible, produces a studbook, carries out demographical and genetic analyses, produces a plan for the future management of the species and provides recommendations to participating institutions. Together with the Species Committee, recommendations are made each year about relocating and breeding animals, and the conditions of such a move (breeding loan, exchange, term free disposition, etc.).\n\nEAZA is an organization for the European zoo and aquarium community that links over 340 membership organizations in 41 countries. The mission of EAZA is to promote cooperation for furthering regional collection planning and wildlife conservation, mainly through coordinated breeding programs of wild animals such as EEP and European Studbook (ESB), which is less intensive than the EEP. Even though EEP participation is mainly reserved for EAZA collections, it is possible for non-EAZA collections to be included in these programmes. There are generally however more restrictions on such zoos (which may go as far as only holding non-breeding animals for educational purposes), and on the number of programmes they may participate in.\n\nOne species which has been handled by EEP was Sumatran tiger which have only a few hundred left in the wild, and only about 7% of their habitat remains. They used to live in all the Sumatran territory, but nowadays most of them can only be found in the mountain regions of the Burit Barisan volcanic area. This species is currently threatened with the destruction of habitat and poaching, for trade of its parts in traditional oriental medicine or as a trophy. The Tiger EEP has made contributions to the conservation of Amur and Sumatran tigers in the wild, via fundraising for wild tiger conservation projects, raising awareness and providing educational opportunities, and assisting with relevant research and training. For example, in November 2011, Sumatran tiger Kirana has delivered 3 cubs at Chester Zoo under EEP which attempts to coordinate breeding between zoos and maintain genetic diversity.\n\nThe Gorilla EEP is one of the most intensively managed and oldest breeding programmes in European zoos. The Gorilla EEP was started in 1987 and was run by the Frankfurt Zoological Garden, who continue to maintain the Gorilla Studbook. In the past decade, some major improvements have been achieved in the management of the EEP for the Western lowland gorilla \"Gorilla gorilla gorilla\". Neonatal mortality and hand‐rearing rates have decreased; transfers in most cases proved to be successful: almost all gorillas were integrated into their new groups and most animals introduced to a breeding group had their first offspring within 2 years. The results show that the current management approach is successful, and that the population is sustainable and has good genetic health.\n\nFor zoo visitors to have the opportunity to see how wild animals look, live, and behave, zoos must ensure that truly wild animals, with all of their natural characteristics, are presented. Zoo animals are vulnerable to three very serious breeding problems inherent to small, artificial populations: inbreeding depression, loss of genetic variability, and accumulation of deleterious mutations. These problems can easily result in loss of original wild traits, and in the expression of heritable abnormalities. If what was once a pure, wild population of animals deteriorates through generations of uncontrolled breeding into inferior or partially domesticated stock, then the animals are no longer suitable for any conservation effort, and the zoos have failed to perform an important educational task.\n\nThe effects of breeding captive populations of wild animals over periods of many generations have been well studied. Based on these studies and genetic theory, guidelines for breeding such small populations have been developed. Following such guidelines should sharply reduce possibilities of breeding problems and concurrently should maximize the number of generations in which the original founding diversity can be maintained. Guidelines for captive populations follow some basic principles including beginning with as many \"founders\" as possible (preferably at least 20-30 of animals), increase the number of individuals within the population rapidly, all individuals from the founder population should have \"equal genetic representation\" and inbreeding should be avoided. The application of these guidelines, and many others tailored to specific populations, results in strictly controlled breeding programmes in which nothing is left to chance. Only in this manner can healthy and truly wild populations be maintained over a period of one or two hundred years. Such strict control is entirely dependent on cooperation among zoos that hold individuals of the species, as single zoos generally do not have the facilities to maintain a population of adequate size independently.\n\nThe largest problem encountered in the functioning of the EEP is undoubtedly the actual execution of breeding management recommendations: it is often difficult to develop policies applicable to an entire group of zoos (varying from 10 to well over 50 depending on the species programme) when these are spread throughout several countries with different languages and laws, and with dissimilar political and economic backgrounds. Just the incongruencies in laws can sometimes make exchange of specimens for breeding purposes by two closely situated zoos a formidable task if a border happens to lie between them. Yet successes have been achieved: the growth of the EEP has been considerable since its initiation in 1985. Now more than 200 zoos from 25 European countries are involved in breeding programmes, while the EEP is strongly supported by the various national zoo federations and by the European Community Association of Zoos and Aquaria (ECAZA). Currently, preparations are being made to find a pan-European zoo association that, among other tasks, will be responsible for EEP affairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "755580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=755580", "title": "European Parliament election, 2004 (Malta)", "text": "European Parliament election, 2004 (Malta)\n\nThe European Parliament election of 2004 in Malta was the election of MEP representing Malta constituency for the 2004–2009 term of the European Parliament. It was part of the wider 2004 European election. The vote took place on 12 June 2004 and used Single Transferable Vote. The opposition Malta Labour Party polled strongly.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35005123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35005123", "title": "Frantz Fanon, une vie, un combat, une œuvre", "text": "Frantz Fanon, une vie, un combat, une œuvre\n\nFrantz Fanon, une vie, un combat, une œuvre is a 2001 documentary film.\n\nThis movie depicts Frantz Fanon's life. A psychiatrist from Martinique, he became a spokesman for the anti-colonialist struggle. In 1952, Frantz Fanon wrote \"Black Skin, White Masks\", an analysis of racism and the ways in which its victims internalize it. In the 50s, he aided the rebels of the Algerian anti-colonial war. Expelled from Algeria in 1956, he moved to Tunis, Tunisia, where he wrote for the rebel newspaper \"El Moudjahid\", founded one of Africa's first psychiatric clinics and wrote several books on decolonization. He died from leukemia in Washington, D.C., at the age of 36.\n"}
{"id": "33913055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33913055", "title": "Freies Werkstatt-Theater", "text": "Freies Werkstatt-Theater\n\nFreies Werkstatt-Theater is a theatre in Cologne, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. It is managed as a public utility and sponsored by the City of Cologne and the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It was founded in Cologne in 1977 as part of the nationwide pilot project 'Artists and Students'. Since 1995 it has been located in a redesigned and refurbished listed building in the south of the city. Its five floors include two venues, two foyers, rehearsal, office, and workshop space\n\nFrom its founding in 1979, as the first theatre in Germany to have a third-age company, it has developed plays whose themes reflect the lives and histories of the people involved, their entry into retirement, and life as older people today.\n\nThe theater is directed by Dieter Scholz, co-founder, and Ingrid Berzau Honour . Dieter Scholz was awarded the Order of Merit (Bundesverdienstkreuz) in 1995 and in 2007 the Cologne Theatre Prize, and Berzau also received of the FWT also the Order of Merit in 2010 for her commitment as artistic director.\n\nThe theatre has become known specially for its unconventionally staged arrangements and dramatizations of literary styles and classics. and in 1990 for its special concept, was the first theatre to receive the Independent Theatre Award of North Rhine Westphalia.\n\n\nA total of 19 nominations for the Cologne Theatre Prize including:\n\nFurther nominations were received in 1990, 1991, 1992, 1996, 1997, 1998, 2001, 2003\n"}
{"id": "24527525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24527525", "title": "Hulen", "text": "Hulen\n\nHulen ('The Cave') is a student-driven rock club in Bergen, Norway, that opened on 17 May 1969. Hulen has its premises in an old bomb shelter below Nygårdshøyden in the city center of Bergen. The shelter is rented from the Norwegian Civil Defence. During its 40 years of existence Hulen has been threatened with bankruptcy etc., but has managed to continue because of their volunteers and supporters.\n\nHulen was once an air-raid shelter, which in 1968 was converted into a club for local students in Bergen, and opened on 17 May 1969. The reason was partly that the students' old resident, Parkveien 1, was torn down. In over 42 years that have elapsed since that time Hulen has also always served as a cultural alternative for students and music people. Hulen is driven by pure idealism. Around 80 people sacrifice some of their best years to keep the wheels rolling in the cave.\n\n"}
{"id": "6345735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6345735", "title": "INDEP", "text": "INDEP\n\nINDEP - Indústrias Nacionais de Defesa, EP (Defense National Industries, Public Corporation) was a defense industry company owned by the Portuguese Government and created to replace the \"Fábrica Nacional de Munições de Armas Ligeiras\" (National Light Armament Ammunition Factory, FNMAL) and the \"Fábrica Militar do Braço de Prata\" (FMBP) under the control of the National Defense Ministry. However, these two companies never completely closed. They merged and continued to exist under the management of INDEP with the new names \"Fábrica Nacional de Munições\" (FNM) and \"Fábrica de Braço de Prata\" (FBP), respectively. The National Defense Ministry also never took complete control of INDEP and required authorization of the Finance Ministry.\n\nOn its creation, many of the products FNM and FBP made were branded and marketed under INDEP.\n\nIn December 1996, a new reorganization of the Portuguese government-owned defense industries started and a new holding company, EMPORDEF, was created in March 1997. The reduction of the national military manufacturing industry lead to the closing of all factories. INDEP was deactivated in December 2003 and closed for good in 2007.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35456364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35456364", "title": "Iași Sevens", "text": "Iași Sevens\n\nIași Sevens is an American football team, based in Iași, Romania.\n\nThe team was formed in January 2008. The first try-out and practice was held on February 3rd, of the same year.\n\nThe team states that their objectives are the recognition of American football as an official sport in Romania, and the creation and promotion of an internal championship.\n\nThe team trains at the Ciurchi soccer stadium in Children's Park, Iași. The home games are played on Sandu Ville Gorun Rugby Stadium, Iași.\n\nOn 28 & 29 March 2009, Iasi Sevens has participated in the 4th edition of the Essone Flag Event, that took place in Paris, France. The team finished ranked 10th from 12 teams, winning 1 game and tying another.\n\nAll the teams play and respect the NCAA football rules.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41095454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41095454", "title": "J-Fest", "text": "J-Fest\n\nJ-Fest (Russian: \"J-FEST\", formerly \"Фестиваль японской поп-культуры\" \"Japanese Pop Culture Festival\") is an annual event held in Moscow. The main organizer is the Embassy of Japan in Russia.\n\nThis is a list of musical artists who have performed at the festival:\n"}
{"id": "36205686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36205686", "title": "Joy FM (Ghana)", "text": "Joy FM (Ghana)\n\nJoy FM is a privately owned radio station in Accra, the capital of Ghana. The station is owned and run by the media group company Multimedia Group Limited. \n"}
{"id": "34953314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34953314", "title": "Juju Factory", "text": "Juju Factory\n\nJuju Factory is a 2007 film.\n\nKongo lives in Brussels, in the Matongé district on which he is writing a book. His editor wants a kind of traveller’s book spiced with ethnic ingredients. However, the writer is inspired by the vision of the complex and tormented souls that he meets everywhere, night and day. Kongo Congo follows invisible threads connected to Congolese history and its ghosts. How is it possible to hold on in this chaotic history? By having juju, self-confidence, and Beatrice’s love.\n\n\nBest Actress\nCarole Karemera (Bari 2007)\n\nBEST ACTOR\nDieudonne Kabongo Bashila (Ecrans Noirs 2008)\n"}
{"id": "2826501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2826501", "title": "Kantharos", "text": "Kantharos\n\nA kantharos () or cantharus is a type of ancient Greek cup used for drinking. Although almost all surviving examples are in Greek pottery, the shape, like many Greek vessel types, probably originates in metalwork. In its iconic \"Type A\" form, it is characterized by its deep bowl, tall pedestal foot, and pair of high-swung handles which extend above the lip of the pot. The Greek words kotylos (κότῦλος, masculine) and kotyle (κοτύλη, feminine) are other ancient names for this same shape.\n\nThe \"kantharos\" is a cup used to hold wine, possibly for drinking or for ritual use or offerings. The \"kantharos\" seems to be an attribute of Dionysos, the god of wine, who was associated with vegetation and fertility. \n\nAs well as a banqueting cup, they could be used in pagan rituals as a symbol of rebirth or resurrection, the immortality offered by wine, \"removing in moments of ecstasy the burden of self-consciousness and elevating man to the rank of deity.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46344753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46344753", "title": "KrAZ-5401", "text": "KrAZ-5401\n\nKrAZ-5401 – truck is manufactured at the KrAZ plant in Ukraine. It was first presented in the 2013 year. \n\nKrAZ-5401 is provided engine YaMZ-536 rated at 312 hp, the MFZ-430 clutch and the 9JS119ТА mechanical transmission.\n\n"}
{"id": "18003135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18003135", "title": "Les Diablons", "text": "Les Diablons\n\nLes Diablons are a mountain of the Swiss Pennine Alps, overlooking Zinal in the canton of Valais. They lie between the valleys of Anniviers and Turtmann on the subrange of the Pennine Alps that culminates at the Weisshorn.\n\nSouth of Les Diablons, on the Tracuit pass, is located the Tracuit Hut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33594007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33594007", "title": "List of World Heritage sites in Northern and Central Asia", "text": "List of World Heritage sites in Northern and Central Asia\n\nThe UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) has designated 19 World Heritage sites in six countries (also called \"state parties\") of Central and North Asia: Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and the Asian part of Russia. The European part of Russia is included in Eastern Europe.\n\nRussia is home to the most inscribed sites with 8 sites, two of which are transborder properties shared with Mongolia in Eastern Asia. The first site from the region was the Itchan Kala in Uzbekistan inscribed in 1990. Each year, UNESCO's World Heritage Committee may inscribe new sites on the list, or delist sites that no longer meet the criteria. Selection is based on ten criteria: six for cultural heritage (i–vi) and four for natural heritage (vii–x). Some sites, designated \"mixed sites,\" represent both cultural and natural heritage. In Northern and Central Asia, there are 11 cultural, 8 natural, and no mixed sites. All of the Russian sites (7) are natural and with the exception of Sayarka, all of the sites in Central Asia are cultural.\n\nThe World Heritage Committee may also specify that a site is endangered, citing \"conditions which threaten the very characteristics for which a property was inscribed on the World Heritage List.\" None of the sites in this region has ever been listed as endangered, but possible danger listing has been considered by UNESCO in a number of cases.\n\nThe table is sortable by column by clicking on the at the top of the appropriate column; alphanumerically for the site, area, and year columns; by state party for the location column; and by criteria type for the criteria column. Transborder sites sort at the bottom.\n\n"}
{"id": "27847367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27847367", "title": "Muselzeidung", "text": "Muselzeidung\n\nMuselzeidung is a newspaper published in Luxembourg.\n"}
{"id": "37879720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37879720", "title": "National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People", "text": "National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People\n\nNational Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP) is trust established\nin 1996. It was created with the help of Rajiv Gandhi Foundation. The organization\nphillosophy is that society needs to change traditionally held views of \"charity and welfare to those of\nproductivity and empowerment of disabled people\". The first director of NCPEDP was Javed Abidi.\n\nOfficial NCPEDP\n"}
{"id": "19115153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19115153", "title": "National Union for Democracy", "text": "National Union for Democracy\n\nNational Union for Democracy () is a political party in Angola. The party was founded on October 2, 1991. The party is a member of the coalition New Democracy. The party was previously a member of the coalition Parties of the Civilian Opposition, but pulled out of it and took part in founding New Democracy in December 2006.\n"}
{"id": "58017939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58017939", "title": "PHP Family", "text": "PHP Family\n\nPHP Family previously known as PHP Group of Industries is a Bangladeshi conglomerate based in Chittagong. It was founded in 1969 by Sufi Mohamed Mizanur Rahman who is the current chairman of the group.\n\nPHP Automobiles Limited is a part of PHP Family that started production of Proton cars since 2017 branded as Proton PHP.\n\nApart from automobiles, the company also produces motorbikes.\n"}
{"id": "6088589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6088589", "title": "Poprad–Tatry Airport", "text": "Poprad–Tatry Airport\n\nPoprad–Tatry Airport () , is an airport in the Slovak ski resort town of Poprad. It is an airport with one of the highest elevations in Central Europe, at 718 m, which is 150 m higher than Innsbruck Airport in Austria, and 989 m lower than Samedan Airport in Switzerland.\n\nThe airport serves schedule and charter airline operations, is a base for search and rescue air services, and handles general aviation. It does not offer any domestic flights. Charter flights are mainly operated in winter. Medical flights, VIP flights, \"ad hoc\" charters and ACMI flight also operate from the airport.\n\nThe following airlines serve scheduled services to and from Poprad–Tatry Airport:\nPassenger throughput and operations since 2014:\n\n"}
{"id": "5813640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5813640", "title": "Post (South Africa)", "text": "Post (South Africa)\n\nThe Post is an English-language newspaper in South Africa owned by Independent News & Media and published in Durban, South Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49490713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49490713", "title": "Quest Arabiya", "text": "Quest Arabiya\n\nQuest Arabiya (), a partnership between Discovery Communications and the Abu Dhabi-based Image Nation, is a free-to-air pan-Arab television channel launched on December 7, 2015 across the Middle East and North Africa region. It is the region's localized version of the Quest channel.\n\nFocusing primarily on factual and reality-based programming, Quest Arabiya broadcasts 24 hours a day, expected to reach an estimated 45 million households across 22 countries. The channel is targeted toward a wide demographic of Arabic-speaking males and females while specifically targeting males 16+ at key times in the schedule.\n\nContent from Discovery's library of factual entertainment shows have been voice-over translated into Arabic. Soon afterward, an English track was launched, allowing viewers to watch the programs in their original language without voice-over translation into Arabic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15352924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15352924", "title": "Radio Antena Satelor", "text": "Radio Antena Satelor\n\nRadio Antena Satelor () is the fifth state-owned radio station in Romania. It broadcasts seven days a week, 24 hours a day.\n\nLongwave:\nMedium-wave:\nFrequency modulation:\n"}
{"id": "2512329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2512329", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Mostar-Duvno", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Mostar-Duvno\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Mostar-Duvno () is an ecclesiastical territory or diocese of the Catholic Church encompassing Herzegovina. The diocese, as well as the Franciscan Province, is centred in the city of Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was formed on July 5, 1881. However, the Diocese of Duvno existed long before 1881, and was erected sometime in the 6th century. \n\nThe seat of the bishopric is in the Cathedral of Mary the Mother of the Church. The diocese releases two monthly magazines: \"Naša ognjišta\" by the Franciscan Province, and \"Crkva na kamenu\" by the bishopric. \n\nThe diocese covers area of 8.368 km sq, with 175.395 Catholic in 66 parishes of the diocese. There are 73 diocesen priests. A number of parishes belongs to the Francisican Province of Herzegovina.\n\nThe current bishop of Mostar is Mons. Ratko Perić. He also serves as administrator of the Diocese of Trebinje-Mrkan. Trebinje-Mrkan was united with Mostar-Duvno in 1890. \n\nThe archive of the Diocesan Ordinariate of Mostar was confiscated by the authorities of Communist Yugoslavia in 1948.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12219310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12219310", "title": "Study Group International", "text": "Study Group International\n\nStudy Group is a global company that prepares international students for university degree programmes, teaches high school education, and teaches English language courses. Study Group owns and operates colleges and also partners with more than 50 universities across the UK, Europe, North America and Australasia. In 2014, Study Group enrolled more than 63,000 students from 170 countries.\n\nThe company's trading names include Embassy (formerly named Embassy CES), Bellerbys College in the UK and Martin College in Australia. Study Group also operates International Study Centres within UK, European, US, Canadian and Australian universities. It has offices in London and Brighton, England, New York City, USA and Sydney, Australia and also operates in Canada and New Zealand, China and Singapore.\n\nThe company dates the origin of Study Group from the Embassy language school in Hastings, England, acquired by businessmen Andrew Colin and Duncan Greenland in 1989. A second language school was opened in Hove shortly after. Colin had previously acquired Bellerbys College, a sixth-form college for international students. In 1994 the company British Study Group was formed incorporating the two businesses and adding a third shareholder/director John Collyer.\n\nIn 1996, 40% of the business was acquired by the Daily Mail Group, becoming Study Group International and expanding into the US and Australia. Later, in 1999, the Daily Mail Group became the 100% owner of Study Group, paying an estimated UK£44 million.\n\nAs well as expanding the UK and Australian operations, Study Group acquired the Center for English Studies (CES) chain of language schools in the USA and Canada, adding Boston, Fort Lauderdale, Los Angeles, New York, San Diego, San Francisco, Seattle and Vancouver to their fold. Embassy became Embassy CES, and then Embassy English.\n\nIn 2006 Study Group was acquired by Australian private equity company Champ, having been sold by Daily Mail Group for A$176.4 million.\n\nIn 2007, the Brighton school and UK head office moved to purpose-built premises in the New England Quarter, next to Brighton station, costing an estimated UK£28 million.\n\nOn July 1, 2010, Providence Equity Partners took ownership of Study Group for $660 million Australian dollars.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Study Group has entered into agreements with a number of universities, whereby students are taught at an \"International Study Centre\" by Study Group staff on the university's premises. These \"foundation\" courses are designed to prepare students for a regular undergraduate and postgraduate degree courses. The company website lists such arrangements at the following 'host' universities:\nHeriot-Watt (Edinburgh), Keele, Kingston, Huddersfield, Lancaster, Leicester, Lincoln, Liverpool John Moores, Strathclyde (Glasgow), Surrey, and the Sussex. The group has also had centres at University of Wales, Newport and the University of Stirling which have closed.\n\nUnder these arrangements, the Study Group programmes are validated by the host university and are marketed alongside the host university's own degree courses. On each university's website, information about Study Group courses are contained on Study Group web pages with the identical appearance to the university's own web pages.\n\nBrighton-based Study Group established one of the first of these arrangements at the nearby University of Sussex. These partnerships are attractive to UK universities as they provide a way of increasing numbers of overseas students, whose fee income is important. Equally, they attract criticism on the basis that students do not expect a British university course to be provided by a commercial company, that the course quality is not accredited within the university system, and that staff transferred to Study Group employment may lose the pay and pension benefits associated with university employment.\n\nStudy Group has made the same arrangements with a number of United States universities, which have received similar comments. The company website lists such arrangements at the following universities: JMU, LIU Post, Roosevelt, UMaine, Vermont, Widener.\n\nAs of October 2017, Embassy English has 15 year-round schools in:\n\n\nApproximately 36,000 students per year study with Embassy English.\n\nEmbassy English opened its first purpose-built school designed by Watkins Grey Associates LLP on a site in Greenwich/Deptford, London, sharing premises with sister company Bellerbys College. Residential accommodation was also built in partnership with the University of Greenwich\n\nIn addition to the year-round schools, Embassy English operate summer schools at over 30 locations across the UK and North America as \"Embassy Summer\". The Embassy Summer school programme operates at the site of various university and college partners, in addition to several of the year-round Embassy centres.<br>\nA range of activities are offered under the Embassy Summer Plus and Embassy Summer Academy brands, with English language tuition being taught alongside a range of \"summer courses\" such as horse-riding.\n\nBellerbys College is the name of four sixth form colleges for international students in the UK aimed at preparing students for university education.\n\nThe colleges are located together with Study Group's Embassy schools in:\n\n\nEstablished in 1920, Taylors College is a university preparation college providing University Foundation, Diploma and Australian High School programs (Year 10 - Year 12) in Australia and New Zealand.\n\nThe Diploma of Commerce program gives students opportunity to enter a range of Degree programs from the second year at the University of Western Australia.\n\nTaylors College has four campuses located in the major cities of Australia and New Zealand: Melbourne, Sydney, Perth and Auckland.\n\nCharles Sturt University (CSU) is an Australian multi-campus public university located in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, and the Australian Capital Territory.\n\nThe CSU Study Centres are operated in conjunction with Study Group Australia, offering undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in Accounting, Business and Information Technology. It has two campuses located in the city centres of Sydney and Melbourne, Australia.\n\nAccording to the Embassy English website, several \"celebrities\" have studied at various Embassy schools:\n\n"}
{"id": "59071959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59071959", "title": "Thelma Rodgers", "text": "Thelma Rodgers\n\nThelma Rodgers is a retired Antarctic scientist from New Zealand. She was the first woman to spend a winter at Scott Base, New Zealand's scientific base in Antarctica.\n\nRodgers grew up in the Nelson area of the South Island of New Zealand. She worked as a science technician in the geophysics division of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research and spent the winter at Scott Base in 1979. She was the first woman to winter-over at the base.\n\nIn 2017 a laboratory in the newly refurbished Hilary Field Centre at Scott Base was named after her.\n"}
{"id": "36385519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36385519", "title": "USA-83", "text": "USA-83\n\nUSA-83, also known as GPS IIA-5, GPS II-14 and GPS SVN-26, is an American navigation satellite which forms part of the Global Positioning System. It was the fifth of nineteen Block IIA GPS satellites to be launched.\n\nUSA-83 was launched at 09:20:01 UTC on 7 July 1992, atop a Delta II carrier rocket, flight number D211, flying in the 7925-9.5 configuration. The launch took place from Launch Complex 17B at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, and placed USA-83 into a transfer orbit. The satellite raised itself into medium Earth orbit using a Star-37XFP apogee motor.\n\nOn 6 August 1992, USA-83 was in an orbit with a perigee of , an apogee of , a period of 717.92 minutes, and 55 degrees of inclination to the equator. It has PRN 26, and operates in slot 2 of plane F of the GPS constellation. The satellite has a mass of . It had a design life of 7.5 years; however, it actually remained in service until January 5, 2015.\n\nIt was subsequently disposed of and currently resides in a disposal orbit approximately 1000 km above the operational constellation.\n"}
{"id": "39012979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39012979", "title": "Upper Battery", "text": "Upper Battery\n\nUpper Battery is a former artillery battery in the British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar. It was located on the Upper Ridge of the Rock of Gibraltar at a site south of Signal Hill Battery and faced east over the Mediterranean. It mounted two 32-pdrs. in 1861. On the other side of the hill, three 24-pdrs. were mounted at Lower Battery. The two batteries were used for signalling and drill purposes. \n\nThe name \"Upper Battery\" was later used as a generic term for the three batteries mounting Gibraltar's main counter-bombardment guns, at Lord Airey's, O'Hara's and Spur Batteries.\n"}
