{"id": "49131449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49131449", "title": "Adamastor Ocean", "text": "Adamastor Ocean\n\nThe Adamastor Ocean was a \"proto-Atlantic\" ocean that opened with the break-up of the Rodinia supercontinent 780-750 Ma. It separated the Río de la Plata Craton from the Congo Craton. The inversion of the Adamastor Ocean began 640 Ma with the development of a large back-arc basin along the western margin of the Kalahari Craton, and the ocean closed when Río de la Plata collided with Kalahari about 545 Ma along the sinistral Sierra Ballena Shear Zone.\nThe São Francisco plate and the Río de la Plata plate amalgamated 630–620 Ma, closing the Adamastor Ocean on the South American side and forming the Mantiqueira Mountains around 600 Ma.\n\nIt was named after the mythical giant Adamastor in Vasco da Gama's writings.\n\n"}
{"id": "12124441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12124441", "title": "Ameretat", "text": "Ameretat\n\nThe word ' is grammatically feminine and the divinity Ameretat is a female entity. Etymologically, Avestan ' derives from an Indo-Iranian root and is linguistically related to Vedic Sanskrit \"amṛtatva\".\nIn Sassanid Era Zoroastrian tradition, Ameretat appears as Middle Persian 𐭠𐭬𐭥𐭫𐭣𐭠𐭣 \"Amurdad\", continuing in New Persian as مرداد \"Mordad\" or \"Amordad\". \n\nLike the other Amesha Spentas also, Ameretat is already attested in the Gathas, the oldest texts of the Zoroastrianism and considered to have been composed by Zoroaster himself. And like most other principles, Ameretat is not unambiguously an entity in those hymns. Unlike four of the other Amesha Spentas, Ameretat does not have a standing epithet that in later Avesta texts becomes an element of her proper name.\n\nAlready in the Gathas, Ameretat is closely allied with Haurvatat, the Amesha Spenta of \"Wholeness\" and health. Addressing Ahura Mazda in \"Yasna\" 34.11, the prophet Zoroaster exclaims that \"both Wholeness and Immortality are for sustenance\" in the Kingdom of God. In the same verse, as also in \"Yasna\" 45.10 and 51.7, parallels are drawn between Ameretat and Haurvatat on the one hand and \"endurance and strength\" on the other.\n\nThe relationship between Ameretat and Haurvatat is carried forward into the Younger Avesta (\"Yasna\" 1.2; 3.1; 4.1; 6.17; 7.26; 8.1 etc.; \"Yasht\" 1.15; 10.92). The Younger Avestan texts allude to their respective guardianships of plant life and water (comparable with the Gathic allusion to sustenence), but these identifications are only properly developed in later tradition (see below). These associations with also reflect the Zoroastrian cosmological model in which each of the Amesha Spentas is identified with one aspect of creation.\n\nThe antithetical counterpart of Ameretat is the demon (\"daeva\") \"Shud\" \"hunger\", while Haurvatat's counterpart is \"Tarshna\" \"thirst\". Ameretat and Haurvatat are the only two Amesha Spentas who are not already assigned an antithetical counterpart in the Gathas. In the eschatological framework of \"Yasht\" 1.25, Ameretat and Haurvatat represent the reward of the righteous after death (\"cf.\" Ashi and \"ashavan\").\n\nIn the \"Bundahishn\", a Zoroastrian account of creation completed in the 12th century, Ameretat and Haurvatat appear—together with Spenta Armaiti (MP: \"Spendarmad\"), the third female Amesha Spenta—on the left hand of Ahura Mazda (\"Bundahishn\" 26.8). Throughout Zoroastrian scripture and tradition, these three principles are most consistently identified with the creations that they represent: respectively plant life, water, and earth. \n\nAccording to the cosmological legends of the \"Bundahishn\", when Angra Mainyu (MP: Ahriman) withered the primordial plant, Ameretat crushed it to pulp and mixed it with water. Tishtrya then took the water and spread it over the world as rain, which in turn caused a multitude of other plants to grow up.\n\nIn the calendrical dedication of \"Siroza\" 1.7, Ameretat is invoked on the seventh day of each month together with the \"Gaokarena\" (the \"White Haoma\"). This Younger Avestan allusion to immortality is properly developed in \"Bundahishn\" 27.2, where White Haoma is considered to be the \"death-dispelling chief of plants.\" From this White Hom, the ambrosia of immortality will be prepared at the final renovation of the world (\"Bd.\" 19.13; 30.25). Other chapters have the nectar being created from Ameretat herself (e.g. \"Bd.\" 26.113).\n\nAccording to the \"Denkard's\" recollection of lost Avestan texts, Zoroaster's \"tan-gohr\", his material self, was under the protection of Ameretat and Haurvatat up until the prophet's conception. The divinities caused the rains to nourish the grass, which six white cows then ate. Upon drinking the milk from those cows, Zoroaster's mother absorbed his \"tan-gohr\". (\"Denkard\" 7.2.19 \"ff)\"\n\nThrough the association with plants and water, Ameretat and Haurvatat are consequently identified with food and drink (\"cf.\" sustenance in the Gathas, above), and traditionally it was out of respect for these two Amesha Spentas that meals were to be taken in silence. In \"Book of Arda Viraz\" 23.6-8, the righteous Viraz sees a man punished in hell \"for consuming Hordad and Amurdad while unlawfully chattering while he chewed.\"\n\nIn the hierarchy of \"yazata\"s, Ameretat has Rashnu, Arshtat, and Zam as assistants or cooperators (\"hamkars\"). Rashnu and Arshtat both have roles in Zoroastrian eschatology while Zam is the divinity of the earth and nourisher of plants. \n\nIn the day-name and month-name dedications of the Zoroastrian calendar, the seventh day of the month and fifth month of the year are named after Ameretat/\"Amurdad\"/\"Mordad\" and are under her protection. The Iranian civil calendar of 1925 follows Zoroastrian month-naming conventions and hence also has \"Mordad\" as the fifth month of the year.\n\nHaurvatat-Ameretat (Pahlavi \"hrwdʼd\" \"ʼmwrdʼd\") appears in Sogdian language texts as \"hrwwt mrwwt\". A relationship to Armenian \"hawrot\" \"mawrot\" has been suggested but is not confirmed. According to Islam tradition, Al-Quran mentions two entities sent to Babil (Babylon) named Harut and Marut, to test people faith because they teach witchcraft and sorcery. These entities stated that they were sent to test the faith of the people before teaching them.\n\n"}
{"id": "1039609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1039609", "title": "Antimatter weapon", "text": "Antimatter weapon\n\nAn antimatter weapon is a possible device according to theories using antimatter as a power source, a propellant, or an explosive for a weapon. Antimatter weapons cannot yet be produced due to the current cost of production of antimatter (estimated at 63 trillion dollars per gram) given the extremely limited technology available to create it in sufficient masses to be viable in a weapon, and the fact that it annihilates upon touching ordinary matter, making containment very difficult.\n\nThe paramount advantage of such a theoretical weapon is that antimatter and matter collisions result in the entire sum of their mass energy equivalent being released as energy, which is at least an order of magnitude greater than the energy release of the most efficient fusion weapons (100% vs 7-10%). Annihilation requires and converts exactly equal masses of antimatter and matter by the collision which releases the entire mass-energy of both, which for 1 gram is ~1.8×10 joules. Using the convention that 1 kiloton TNT equivalent = 4.184×10 joules, one gram of antimatter reacting with one gram of ordinary matter results in 42.96 kilotons-equivalent of energy (though there is considerable \"loss\" by production of neutrinos).\n\nAntimatter production and containment are currently impenetrable barriers (due to current technological limitations) to the creation of antimatter weapons. Quantities measured in grams will be required to achieve a destructive effect comparable with conventional nuclear weapons.\n\nCurrently, the few known physics reactions for producing antimatter involve particle accelerators or particle bombardment, but are both currently highly inefficient and prohibitively expensive. The global production rate per year is only 1 to 10 nanograms. In 2008, the annual production of antiprotons at the Antiproton Decelerator facility of CERN was several picograms at a cost of US$20 million. Thus, at the current level of production, an equivalent of a 10 Mt hydrogen bomb, about 250 grams of antimatter will take 2.5 billion years of the energy production of the entire Earth to produce. A milligram of antimatter will take 100,000 times the annual production rate to produce (or 100,000 years). For example, an equivalent of the Hiroshima atomic bomb would take half a gram of antimatter, but would take CERN two million years to produce at the current production rate.\n\nSince the first creation of artificial antiprotons in 1955, production rates increased nearly geometrically until the mid-1980s; A significant advancement was made recently as a single antihydrogen atom was produced suspended in a magnetic field. Physical laws such as the small cross-section of antiproton production in high-energy nuclear collisions make it exceedingly difficult to improve the production efficiency of antimatter given current technology.\n\nResearch conducted in 2008 dramatically increased the quantity of positrons (antielectrons) that can be produced. Physicists at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California used a short, ultra-intense laser to irradiate a millimetre-thick gold target which produced more than 100 billion positrons.\n\nEven if it were possible to convert energy directly into particle/antiparticle pairs without any loss, a large-scale power plant generating 2000 MWe would take 25 hours to produce just one gram of antimatter. Given the average price of electric power of around US$50 per megawatt hour, this puts a lower limit on the cost of antimatter at $2.5 million per gram. They suggest that this would make antimatter very cost-effective as a rocket fuel, as just one milligram would be enough to send a probe to Pluto and back in a year, a mission that would be completely unaffordable with conventional fuels. By way of comparison, the cost of the Manhattan Project (to produce the first atomic bomb) is estimated at US$23 billion in 2007 prices. Most scientists, however, doubt whether such efficiencies could ever be achieved.\n\nThe second problem is the containment of antimatter. Antimatter annihilates with regular matter on contact, so it would be necessary to prevent contact, for example by producing antimatter in the form of solid charged or magnetized particles, and suspending them using electromagnetic fields in a near-perfect vacuum. The obvious solution of confining a charged object inside a similarly charged container is not feasible as the electric field inside is uniform. For this reason it is necessary to have charged objects moving relative to the container which can be confined to a central region by magnetic fields; for example, in the form of a toroid or Penning trap (see below). \n\nIn order to achieve compactness given macroscopic weight, the overall electric charge of the antimatter weapon core would have to be very small compared to the number of particles. For example, it is not feasible to construct a weapon using positrons alone, due to their mutual repulsion. The antimatter weapon core would have to consist primarily of neutral antiparticles. Extremely small amounts of antihydrogen have been produced in laboratories, but containing them (by cooling them to temperatures of several millikelvins and trapping them in a Penning trap) is extremely difficult. And even if these proposed experiments were successful, they would only trap several antihydrogen atoms for research purposes, far too few for weapons or spacecraft propulsion. Heavier antimatter atoms have yet to be produced.\n\nThe difficulty of preventing accidental detonation of an antimatter weapon may be contrasted with that of a nuclear weapon. Whereas nuclear weapons are 'fail-safe', antimatter weapons are inherently 'fail-deadly': In an antimatter weapon, any failure of containment would immediately result in annihilation, which would damage or destroy the containment system and lead to the release of all of the antimatter material, causing the weapon to detonate entirely at full yield. By contrast, a modern nuclear weapon will explode with a significant yield if (and only if) the nuclear trigger is fired with absolute precision resulting in a neutron source wholly releasing promptly (< microseconds). In short, an antimatter weapon must be actively kept from detonating; whereas a nuclear weapon will not unless deliberately made to do so.\n\n, the cost of producing one millionth of a gram of antimatter was estimated at US$60 billion.\n\nSmaller weapons are more economically feasible: A modern MK3 hand grenade contains 227 g of TNT. One billionth of a gram of positrons contains as much energy as 37.8 kilograms (83 pounds) of TNT, making the 2004 cost of \"positron hand grenade\" (10 trillionth of a gram of antimatter, 378 g TNT equivalent) that could be fitted in a sniper's bullet US$600,000. This excludes the cost of the micro containment device if such a thing is possible.\n\nAntimatter-catalyzed nuclear pulse propulsion proposes the use of antimatter as a \"trigger\" to initiate small nuclear explosions; the explosions provide thrust to a spacecraft. The same technology could theoretically be used to make very small and possibly \"fission-free\" (very low nuclear fallout) weapons (see pure fusion weapon). Antimatter-catalyzed weapons could be more discriminate and result in less long-term contamination than conventional nuclear weapons, and their use might therefore be more politically acceptable.\n\n"}
{"id": "5655722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5655722", "title": "Aquadag", "text": "Aquadag\n\nAquadag is a trade name for a water-based colloidal graphite coating commonly used in cathode ray tubes (CRTs). It is manufactured by Acheson Industries, a subsidiary of ICI. The name is a shortened form of \"Aqueous Deflocculated Acheson Graphite\", but has become a generic term for conductive graphite coatings used in vacuum tubes. Other related products include Oildag, Electrodag and Molydag. The product names are often printed with DAG in upper case (e.g. AquaDAG). It is used as an electrically conductive coating on insulating surfaces, and as a lubricant.\n\nAquadag consists of a dispersion of colloidal graphite in distilled water. It is provided in concentrated paste form and is usually diluted with distilled water to a desired consistency before application. It can be applied by brushing, swabbing, spraying, or dipping, after which the surface is dried, leaving a layer of pure graphite.\n\nAfter drying the coating is electrically conductive. Its resistance and other electrical properties vary with degree of dilution and application method. When diluted 1:1 and applied by brush its resistance is:\n\nA conductive aquadag coating applied to the inside of the glass envelope of cathode ray tubes, serves as a high-voltage electrode. The coating covers the inside walls of the \"bell\" of the CRT tube, from just inside the neck, and stops just short of the screen. Due to the graphite, it is electrically conductive and forms part of the high-voltage positive electrode, the second anode, which accelerates the electron beam. The second anode is a metal cylinder inside the neck of the tube, connected to a high positive voltage of 18 to 25 kilovolts. It has spring clips, which press against the walls of the tube, making contact with the aquadag coating so it also carries this high positive voltage. The electron beam from the electron gun in the neck of the tube is accelerated by the high voltage on the anode and passes through it to strike the screen.\n\nThe aquadag coating has two functions: it maintains a uniform electric field inside the tube near the screen, so the electron beam remains collimated and is not distorted by external fields, and it collects the electrons after they have hit the screen, serving as the return path for the cathode current. When the electron beam hits the screen, in addition to causing the fluorescent phosphor coating to give off light, it also knocks other electrons out of the surface. These \"secondary electrons\" are attracted to the high positive voltage of the coating and return through it to the anode power supply. Without the coating a negative space charge would develop near the screen, deflecting the electron beam. A typical value of beam current collected by the anode coating is 0.6 mA.\n\nIn some CRTs the aquadag coating performs a third function, as a filter capacitor for the high-voltage anode supply. A second conductive coating is applied to part of the outside of the tube facing the inside coating. This outside coating is connected to the ground side of the anode supply, thus the full anode voltage is applied between the coatings. The sandwich of the two coatings separated by the dielectric glass wall of the tube form a final capacitor to filter out ripple from the anode supply. Although the capacitance is small, around 500 pF, due to the low anode current it is sufficient to act as a filter capacitor.\n\nIn the television tube manufacturing industry, the manufacturing step that applies the aquadag is called \"dagging\".\n\nAside from its use in the production of CRTs, Aquadag is used in many types of high-voltage lab apparatus where a conductive coating is needed on an insulating surface. The surfaces of some metals (most notably aluminum) can develop nonconductive oxide layers, which tend to disrupt the electrostatic field produced around the surface of the metal when used as an electrode. Aquadag is not subject to such effects and provides a completely uniform equipotential surface for electrostatics.\n\nThere are also deflocculated graphite products dispersed in liquids other than water. Acheson has extended the use of the dag brandname to non-graphite products e.g. the copper-based Electrodag 437 conductive paint.\n\n"}
{"id": "86038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86038", "title": "Arduinna", "text": "Arduinna\n\nIn Gallo-Roman religion, Arduinna (also Arduina, Arduinnae or Arduinne) was the eponymous tutelary goddess of the Ardennes Forest and region, thought to be represented as a huntress riding a boar (primarily in the present-day regions of Belgium and Luxembourg). Her cult originated in the Ardennes region of present-day Belgium, Luxembourg, and France. She was identified with the Roman goddess Diana.\n\nIn \"The Gods of the Celts\", Miranda Green states that some depictions of Arduinna show her riding a boar. However, Simone Deyts notes that the bronze Gallo-Roman statue of a woman in a short belted tunic, riding a boar sidesaddle and holding a knife, conserved in the Musée des antiquités nationales, St-Germain-en-Laye, bears no inscription, and was simply assumed to be Arduinna by the 19th century antiquarian who discovered it—perhaps because the modern symbol of the Ardennes region is also a boar. Another such bronze, from the collection of Richard Payne Knight, has been in the British Museum since 1824; it is traditionally identified as \"Diana\". Both bronze statuettes are now headless.\n\nArduinna is directly attested from two inscriptions:\n\n\nThe name Arduinna derives from the Gaulish \"arduo-\" meaning height. It is also found in several placenames, such as the Ardennes Woods (\"Arduenna silva\") and the Forest of Arden in England, in personal names \"Arduunus\" and \"Arda\" — the latter from coinage of the Treveri — and the Galatian \"Αρδή\". The name \"Arduenna silva\" for \"wooded heights\" was applied to several forested mountains, not just the modern Ardennes: it is found in the départements of Haute-Loire and Puy-de-Dôme and in the French commune of Alleuze.\n\nIt has also been suggested that the gemination \"-nn-\" is typical to a language of the Belgae, being different from Celtic and thus suggesting a \"Nordwestblock\" etymology, which, generally speaking, is also assumed to be closer to Germanic.\n\nIn 585, (Wulfilaich) preached to the local population of Villers-devant-Orval in the Ardennes to persuade them to abandon the worship of Diana. On the hill near Margut, there was, according to Gregory of Tours, a large stone statue of Diana where people would worship. Worshippers would also sing chants in Diana's honour as they drank and feasted. After some difficulties, Walfroy and his followers succeeded in pulling down the statue, which they demolished with hammers.\n\nThe Main belt asteroid 394 Arduina, discovered on 19 November 1894, is named for Arduinna.\n\n"}
{"id": "1085111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1085111", "title": "Baptistery", "text": "Baptistery\n\nIn Christian architecture the baptistery or baptistry (Old French \"baptisterie\"; Latin \"baptisterium\"; Greek , 'bathing-place, baptistery', from , baptízein, 'to baptize') is the separate centrally planned structure surrounding the baptismal font. The baptistery may be incorporated within the body of a church or cathedral, and provided with an altar as a chapel. In the early Church, the catechumens were instructed and the sacrament of baptism was administered in the baptistery.\n\nThe sacramental importance and sometimes architectural splendor of the baptistery reflect the historical importance of baptism to Christians. The octagonal plan of the Lateran Baptistery, the first structure expressly built as a baptistery, provided a widely followed model. The baptistery might be twelve-sided, or even circular as at Pisa. \n\nIn a narthex or anteroom, the catechumens were instructed and made their confession of faith before baptism. The main interior space centered upon the baptismal font (\"piscina\"), in which those to be baptized were thrice immersed. Three steps led down to the floor of the font, and over it might be suspended a gold or silver dove. The iconography of frescos or mosaics on the walls were commonly of the scenes in the life of Saint John the Baptist. The font was at first always of stone, but latterly metals were often used.\n\nThe Lateran baptistery's font was fed by a natural spring. When the site had been the palatial dwelling of the Laterani, before Constantine presented it to Bishop Miltiades, the spring formed the water source for the numerous occupants of the \"domus.\" As the requirements for Christian baptisteries expanded, Christianization of sacred pagan springs presented natural opportunities. Cassiodorus, in a letter written in AD 527, described a fair held at a former pagan shrine of Leucothea, in the still culturally Greek region of south Italy. This shrine had been Christianized by converting it to a baptistery (\"Variae\" 8.33). There are also examples of the transition from miraculous springs to baptisteries from Gregory of Tours (died \"c.\" 594) and Maximus, bishop of Turin (died \"c.\" 466).\n\nBaptisteries belong to a period of the church when great numbers of adult catechumens were baptized and immersion was the rule. They did not seem to be common before the emperors Gratian, Valentinian, and Theodosius made Christianity the state religion in the Edict of Thessalonica (i.e. before the 4th century). As early as the 6th century, the baptismal font was commonly built in the porch of the church, before it was moved into the church itself. After the 9th century, with infant baptism increasingly the rule, few baptisteries were built. Some of the older baptisteries were so large that there are accounts of councils and synods being held in them. They had to be large because a bishop in the early church would customarily baptize all the catechumens in his diocese and the rite was performed only three times a year, on certain holy days. Baptisteries were thus attached to the cathedral and not to the parish churches.\n\nDuring the months when no baptisms occurred, the baptistery doors were sealed with the bishop's seal, a method of controlling the orthodoxy of all baptism in the diocese. Some baptisteries were divided into two parts to separate the sexes; or sometimes the church had two baptisteries, one for each sex. A fireplace was often provided to warm the neophytes after immersion.\n\nThough baptisteries were forbidden to be used as burial-places by the Council of Auxerre (578), they were sometimes used as such. The Florentine Antipope John XXIII was buried in the Baptistery, facing Florence's Duomo, with great ceremony. A tomb was erected here. Many of the early archbishops of Canterbury in England were buried in the baptistery at Canterbury.\n\nAccording to the records of early church councils, baptisteries were first built and used to correct what were considered the evils arising from the practice of private baptism. As soon as Christianity had expanded so that baptism became the rule, and as immersion of adults gave place to sprinkling of infants, the ancient baptisteries were no longer necessary. They are still in general use, however, in Florence and Pisa.\n\nThe baptistery of the Lateran must be the earliest ecclesiastical building still in use. (\"Main article: Lateran Baptistery.\") A large part of it remains as built by Constantine. The central area, with the basin of the font, is an octagon around which stand eight porphyry columns, with marble capitals and entablature of classical form. Outside these are an ambulatory and outer walls forming a larger octagon. Attached to one side, toward the Lateran basilica, is a porch with two noble porphyry columns and richly carved capitals, bases and entablatures. \n\nThe circular church of Santa Costanza, also of the 4th century, served as a baptistery and contained the tomb of the daughter of Constantine. This is a remarkably perfect structure with a central dome, columns, and mosaics of classical fashion. Two side niches contain the earliest known mosaics of distinctively Christian subjects. In one is represented Moses receiving the Old Law, in the other Christ delivers to Saint Peter the New Law charter, sealed with the XP monogram.\n\nThe earliest surviving structure that was used as a baptistery is the tomb-like baptistery at Dura-Europas. Another baptistery of the earliest times has been excavated at Aquileia. Ruins of baptisteries have also been found at Salona and in Crete. At Ravenna are two noted baptisteries, decorated with fine mosaics. One was built in the mid-5th century, and the other in the 6th. A large baptistery decorated with mosaics was built in the 6th century at Naples.\n\nIn the East the metropolitan baptistery at Constantinople still stands at the side of the former patriarchal Church of Holy Wisdom. Many others, in Syria for example, were found in late 19th and early 20th-centry archeological research, as were some belonging to churches of North Africa. In France the most famous early baptistery is Baptistère Saint-Jean at Poitiers. Other early examples exist at Riez, Fréjus and Aix-en-Provence. In England, a detached baptistery is known to have been associated with Canterbury Cathedral.\n\nFamous Italian baptisteries include:\nFamous French baptisteries include:\n\nByzantine baptisteries of the Holy Land:\nEmmaus Nicopolis\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2359626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2359626", "title": "Bloody Bones", "text": "Bloody Bones\n\nBloody Bones is a bogeyman figure feared by children and is sometimes called Rawhead, Tommy Rawhead, or Rawhead-and-Bloody-Bones.\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary cites approximately 1548 as the earliest written appearance of \"Blooddybone\". The term \"Raw-Head and Bloody-Bones, and such other Names\" was used \"to awe children, and keep them in subjection\", as recorded by John Locke in 1693. Samuel Johnson in his \"Dictionary of the English Language\" (first published in 1755) defined \"Rawhead\" as \"the name of a spectre, mentioned to fright children\". The stories originated in Great Britain where they were particularly common in Lancashire and Yorkshire, and spread to North America where the stories were common in the Southern United States.\n\nBloody Bones is sometimes regarded as a water demon haunting deep ponds and old marl pits (which often became filled with water to form ponds) where it dragged children into the depths, much like the Grindylow and Jenny Greenteeth. Children were told to \"keep away from the marl-pit or rawhead and bloody bones will have you.\" \n\nRuth Tongue said in \"Somerset Folklore\" that he \"lived in a dark cupboard, usually under the stairs. If you were heroic enough to peep through a crack you would get a glimpse of the dreadful, crouching creature, with blood running down his face, seated waiting on a pile of raw bones that had belonged to children who told lies or said bad words. If you peeped through the keyhole he got you anyway.\" \n\nOld Bloody Bones is a Cornish version of Rawhead-and-Bloody-Bones according to F. W. Jones in \"Old Cornwall\". Old Bloody Bones inhabited Knockers Hole near the village of Baldhu. There was said to have been a massacre in the area, and it is suggested that he was a ghost or evil spirit attracted by the carnage.\n\nIn the Southern United States, Rawhead and Bloody Bones are sometimes regarded as two individual creatures or two separate parts of the same monster. One is a skull stripped of skin that bites its victims (Rawhead) and its companion is a dancing headless skeleton (Bloody Bones). In one cautionary tale a gossip loses his head to the monster as punishment for his wicked tongue. Legends about Bloody Bones eventually made their way into African-American tradition as well as spreading to other parts of the United States.\n\nIn the opening of \"An Evening's Entertainment\" (published 1925), English ghost story writer M. R. James mourns the loss of unrecorded folklore tales, citing \"Rawhead and Bloody Bones\" as an example of such a case where the name survives but the tale behind the name is lost. \"We hear, indeed, of sheeted spectres with saucer eyes, and — still more intriguing — of 'Rawhead and Bloody Bones' (an expression which the Oxford Dictionary traces back to 1550), but the context of these striking images eludes us. Here, then, is a problem which has long obsessed me; but I see no means of solving it finally. The aged grandams are gone, and the collectors of folk-lore began their work in England too late to save most of the actual stories which the grandams told. Yet such things do not easily die quite out...\"\n\nIn the novel \"Cold Days\", in The Dresden Files series, a Rawhead is a creature native to the Never-Never. It appears as a large, skinless creature with a gaping many-jawed mouth. Its form is made from the discarded remains of pigs and cows, the bodies of children, and grown adults if it gets large enough to consume them.\n\nThe short story \"Rawhead Rex\" was first published in Clive Barker's \"Books of Blood\" Vol. III. In the story Rawhead is accidentally awakened by the townsfolk of the rural town of Zeal, Kent. He goes on a murderous rampage killing and eating townspeople, including numerous children, and the Vicar of the town. He is a giant nine-foot-tall humanoid creature with a giant, sharp-toothed head. It is finally defeated by a talisman depicting a pregnant woman, the antithesis of the monster and the only thing it fears. The story was later turned into the movie \"Rawhead Rex\" (1986) which Barker has disowned, although he is the credited screenwriter.\n\nIn the television series \"Supernatural\" (Season 1, Episode 12 \"Faith\"), Dean and Sam rescue two children hiding in a cupboard in the basement of a house. Sam leaves with the children just before Dean is attacked by the Rawhead and thrown to the ground. Despite the fact that they are both in a puddle of water, Dean uses his taser to electrocute the Rawhead, killing it and severely injuring himself.\n\nSiouxsie and the Banshees recorded a song called \"Rawhead and Bloodybones\" on their album \"Peepshow\", which starts out, \"Bad words or bad deeds/unpunished invite grief.\"\n\nRawhead and Bloody Bones appear in a Hellboy and the B.P.R.D. story in England.\n\n\"Bloody bones gon' get you\" is repeated as the outro in Yelawolf's 2017 song 'Shadows' (ft Josh Hadley, on the Trial By Fire album); sung by Nashville-based gospel quartet, the McCrary Sisters.\n\nIn Laurell K. Hamilton's 1996 novel, Bloody Bones, Magnus Bouvier explains to Anita Blake how his family captured and imprisoned Rawhead-and-Bloody-Bones in order to feed off of its magical blood and increase their own power.\n\nIn Susanna Clarke's 2004 novel, Johnathan Strange and Mr Norrell, the Gentleman with the Thistledown Hair refers to \"raw head and bloody bones\" as one of a number of shapes he might have to take in the event of magical combat, implying that this is a form which the Faeries take to achieve certain ends, rather than a distinct sort of creature from Faerie beings.\n\n"}
{"id": "4622055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4622055", "title": "Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory", "text": "Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory\n\nThe Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory, also known as Great Blue Hill Weather Observatory, Blue Hill Weather Observatory, or simply the Blue Hill Observatory, in Milton, Massachusetts is the foremost structure associated with the history of weather observations in the United States. Located atop Great Blue Hill at the junction of Interstate 93 and Route 138 about 10 miles (16 km) south of Boston, Massachusetts, it is home to the oldest continuous weather record in North America, and was the location of the earliest kite soundings of the atmosphere in North America in the 1890s, as well as the development of the radiosonde in the 1930s.\n\nFounded by Abbott Lawrence Rotch in 1884, the observatory took a leading role in the newly emerging science of meteorology and was the scene of many of the first scientific measurements of upper atmosphere weather conditions, using kites to carry weather instruments aloft. Knowledge of wind velocities, air temperature and relative humidity at various levels came into use as vital elements in weather prediction due to techniques developed at this site. By 1895 the observatory was the source of weather forecasts of remarkable accuracy. On October 8, 1896, a record of 8740 feet (2,665 m) was achieved for a weather kite. During the Great New England Hurricane of 1938, the observatory measured the strongest wind gust ever directly measured and recorded in a hurricane at 186 mph (299 km/h).\n\nThe observatory remains active to this day, continuing to add to its data base of weather observations now more than one hundred years old, and stands as a monument to the science of meteorology in the United States.\n\nThe observatory offers meteorological science programs and is open to the public on weekends.\n\nThe Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory was founded by American meteorologist Abbott Lawrence Rotch (1861–1912) in 1884. By the time he graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1884, Rotch had conceived and carried into execution his plans for the erection of a meteorological observatory on the summit of the Great Blue Hill, ten miles south of Boston, Massachusetts in the Blue Hills Reservation, a 6,000-acre (24 km²) public park managed by the Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation.\n\nRotch chose the site because the elevation of 635 feet was the highest point within ten miles of the Atlantic Ocean, on the East Coast south of central Maine. The Observatory was founded as a weather station and research facility. This location afforded early weather scientists a unique opportunity for recording extremes of weather and experimenting with weather-recording instruments.\n\nThe observatory building was completed by the end of 1884 and the first regular observations were begun on February 1, 1885. Rotch became the first director of the observatory and maintained it at his own expense until his death in 1912 when he bequeathed it to Harvard University with an endowment of $50,000.\n\nConstruction of the observatory was started by Rotch in 1884 using his own private funds, and designed by architects Rotch & Tilden. The original structure consisted of a two-story circular tower and an adjoining housing unit which contained two bedrooms, a dining room and a kitchen. In 1889, a two-story east wing was added to provide additional working space for research, domestic chores, and the library. In 1902, a two-story west wing containing a new library was added to provide additional work space. A steel fire door and brick wall connect the library to the earlier masonry structure. A timbrel vault (18 by 35 ft) of cohesive tiles spans the library. The timbrel vault tile roof is believed to have been installed by the Guastavino Company using an extremely tenacious mortar developed by Rafael Guastavino, the founder of the firm.\n\nNative stone, gathered from the summit of the Great Blue Hill, was used for the two-story tower, adjoining housing unit, and the east and west wings. Copper sheathing was used for roofing. A stone wall and iron fence were erected in 1905 to provide security for the building and instruments and privacy for the staff. The original stone tower eventually proved to be unsuitable. Wind-driven rain penetrated its walls, damaging the instruments and records. Vibration from the instruments on masts atop the tower contributed to the structural problems.\n\nIn 1908, the original tower was demolished and a new reinforced three-story late Gothic Revival concrete tower, 20 feet 6 inches wide and 32 feet 8 inches high was constructed in its place. The concrete construction of the tower was chosen specifically to provide the maximum amount of stability and durability in the event of high winds. The tower has a crenelated top and a cornice containing dentils. The windows are double-hung sash with a shallow recessed arch over the windows on the first and second floors.\n\nThe new tower provided the durable weather-resistant, vibration-free environment necessary for accurate instrument readings. The first floor of the tower contains the director's office. The weather bureau is on the second floor and a laboratory and access to the roof are found on the third floor. Various wind gauges and other meteorological recording instruments are attached to the roof of the tower. The observatory still retains barometers and other instrumentation dating from the late 19th century. These instruments are used to calibrate the modern instrumentation to preserve the accuracy and integrity of the data base dating back to 1885.\n\nIn 1962, a metal tower containing a siderostat for collecting the sun's rays and directing them by mirrors to an optical bench inside the observatory, was erected adjacent to the west wing for studies related to the upper atmosphere. This project was abandoned after a few years. This tower, with its mirrors still present, is no longer in use.\n\nThe observatory has been neglected for a number of years. Although the structure is generally weather-tight, due to both solid construction and a copper roof, the reinforced concrete tower is plagued by the elements. The frost-thaw cycle has caused some cracking and spalling of the concrete.\n\nIn 1980, the building was listed in the National Register of Historic Places as \"Great Blue Hill Weather Observatory\", as part of a multiple property nomination by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts entitled \"Prehistoric and Historic Resources of the Blue Hills and Neponset River Reservations and Selected Adjacent Lands\".\n\nIn 1981, the Metropolitan District Commission transferred responsibility for the observatory to the Blue Hill Weather Club, a local group of supporters, who plan to restore the observatory and establish a weather museum on the site. The observatory will be kept open to continue its record of continuous weather observations. The National Weather Service continues to operate an Automated Surface Observing System at the site.\n\nA white marble stone containing a summary record of climatological data from 1885 to 1984 and dedicated to the memory of Abbott Lawrence Rotch is located on the front yard of the building.\n\nIt was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1989 with name \"Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory\".\n\nUnder Rotch's leadership, the Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory quickly became famous for its pioneering studies of the upper atmosphere. The study of cloud heights, directions and velocities that Rotch carried out at the Blue Hill Observatory made significant contributions to the knowledge of clouds in the early years of the 20th century.\n\nRotch continued to work at the Blue Hill Observatory until his death on April 7, 1912. Under the terms of his will, the observatory was given to Harvard University with an endowment of $50,000 for operating costs. Harvard operated the observatory until 1971 when it disassociated itself from the site. The Rotch endowment was kept by Harvard.\n\nAfter 1912, the Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory continued to operate as an active meteorological observatory. Weather observations and recordings have continued to this day, providing modern meteorologists with a record of uninterrupted climatological observations that is unique in the world.\n\nSince these recordings were obtained from the same site with virtually no environmental change, they provide an important index to climate change. This information is of special importance to students of climatic change, in an age where so many weather records are flawed by environmental and procedural changes, and by repeated moves of the observing site over a number of years. For this reason, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration designated the Blue Hill Observatory one of 26 International Benchmark stations within the United States.\n\nDuring the 1950s, the site housed a research group that used radar to scan approaching thunder storms as far away as western New York State, as part of an inquiry into the causes of lightning. Findings by this group were instrumental in the development of the US weather radar program. The installation consisted of a steel tower supporting a second-hand military radar set, several Quonset huts and box trailers, surrounded by a chain-link fence. Group members were on call to monitor the radar whenever severe storms could be observed. Data were also collected from a network of amateur co-operative observers who corresponded by mail. This era coincided with the end of the long career of the famous Director of the Observatory, Dr. Charles Brooks, said to be one of the few who accurately forecast the path of the destructive Hurricane of September, 1938.\n\nSince 1885, the staff of the observatory and others have documented the scientific work completed at the Blue Hill Observatory in almost 900 scientific publications. The Observatory's first century is a distinguished history of contribution to the development of meteorology. Measurements at the observatory have continued on a daily basis since the day it first opened in 1885, making the observatory one of the oldest continually active weather and climate monitoring stations in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20943440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20943440", "title": "Bridge scour", "text": "Bridge scour\n\nBridge scour is the removal of sediment such as sand and gravel from around bridge abutments or piers. Scour, caused by swiftly moving water, can scoop out \"scour holes\", compromising the integrity of a structure.\n\nIn the United States, bridge scour is one of the three main causes of bridge failure (the others being collision and overloading). It has been estimated that 60% of all bridge failures result from scour and other hydraulic-related causes. It is the most common cause of highway bridge failure in the United States, where 46 of 86 major bridge failures resulted from scour near piers from 1961 to 1976.\n\nWater normally flows faster around piers and abutments making them susceptible to local scour. At bridge openings, contraction scour can occur when water accelerates as it flows through an opening that is narrower than the channel upstream from the bridge. Degradation scour occurs both upstream and downstream from a bridge over large areas. Over long periods of time, this can result in lowering of the stream bed.\n\nStream channel instability resulting in river erosion and changing angles-of-attack can contribute to bridge scour. Debris can also have a substantial impact on bridge scour in several ways. A build-up of material can reduce the size of the waterway under a bridge causing \"contraction scour\" in the channel. A build-up of debris on the abutment can increase the obstruction area and increase \"local scour\". Debris can deflect the water flow, changing the angle of attack, increasing \"local scour\". Debris might also shift the entire channel around the bridge causing increased water flow and scour in another location.\n\nThe most frequently encountered bridge scour problems usually involve loose alluvial material that can be easily eroded. However, one should not assume that total scour in cohesive or cemented soils will not be as large as in non-cohesive soils, the scour takes longer to develop.\n\nMany of the equations for scour were derived from laboratory studies, for which the range of applicability is difficult to ascertain. Most studies focussed on piers and pile formations, though most bridge scour problems are related to the more complex configuration of the bridge abutment. Some studies were verified using limited field data, though this is also difficult to accurately scale for physical modelling purposes. During field measurements of post scour, a scour hole that had developed on the rising stage of a flood, or at the peak, may be filled in again on the falling stage. For this reason, the maximum depth of scour cannot be simply modelled after the event.\n\nScour can also cause problems with the hydraulic analysis of a bridge. Scour may considerably deepen the channel through a bridge and effectively reduce or even eliminate the backwater. This reduction in backwater should not be relied on, however, because of the unpredictable nature of the processes involved.\n\nWhen considering scour it is normal to distinguish between non-cohesive or cohesionless (alluvial) sediments and cohesive material. The former are usually of most interest to laboratory studies. Cohesive materials require special techniques and are poorly researched.\n\nThe first major issue when considering scour is the distinction between clear-water scour and live-bed scour. The critical issue here is whether or not the mean bed shear stress of the flow upstream of the bridge is less than or larger than the threshold value needed to move the bed material.\n\nIf the upstream shear stress is less than the threshold value, the bed material upstream of the bridge is at rest. This is referred to as the clear-water condition because the approach flow is clear and does not contain sediment. Thus, any bed material that is removed from a local scour hole is not replaced by sediment being transported by the approach flow. The maximum local scour depth is achieved when the size of the scour hole results in a local reduction in shear stress to the critical value such that the flow can no longer remove bed material from the scoured area.\n\nLive-bed scour occurs where the upstream shear stress is greater than the threshold value and the bed material upstream of the crossing is moving. This means that the approach flow continuously transports sediment into a local scour hole. By itself, a live bed in a uniform channel will not cause a scour hole - for this to be created some additional increase in shear stress is needed, such as that caused by a contraction (natural or artificial, such as a bridge) or a local obstruction (e.g. a bridge pier). The equilibrium scour depth is achieved when material is transported into the scour hole at the same rate at which it is transported out.\n\nTypically the maximum equilibrium clear-water scour is about 10% larger than the equilibrium live-bed scour. Conditions that favour clear water scour are:\nIt is possible that both clear water and live-bed scour can occur. During a flood event, bed shear stress may change as the flood flows change. It is possible to have clear-water conditions at the commencement of a flood event, transitioning to a live bed before reverting to clear water conditions. Note that the maximum scour depth may occur under initial clear-water conditions, not necessarily when the flood levels peak and live-bed scour is underway. Similarly, relatively high velocities can be experienced when the flow is just contained within the banks, rather than spread over the floodplains at the peak discharge.\n\nUrbanisation has the effect of increasing flood magnitudes and causing hydrographs to peak earlier, resulting in higher stream velocities and degradation. Channel improvements or the extraction of gravel (above or below the site in question) can alter water levels, flow velocities, bed slopes and sediment transport characteristics and consequently affect scour. For instance, if an alluvial channel is straightened, widened or altered in any other way that results in an increased flow-energy condition, the channel will tend back towards a lower energy state by degrading upstream, widening and aggrading downstream.\n\nThe significance of degradation scour to bridge design is that the engineer has to decide whether the existing channel elevation is likely to be constant over the life of the bridge, or whether it will change. If change is probable then it must be allowed for when designing the waterway and foundations.\n\nThe lateral stability of a river channel may also affect scour depths, because movement of the channel may result in the bridge being incorrectly positioned or aligned with respect to the approach flow. This problem can be significant under any circumstances but is potentially very serious in arid or semi-arid regions and with ephemeral (intermittent) streams. Lateral migration rates are largely unpredictable. Sometimes a channel that has been stable for many years may suddenly start to move, but significant influences are floods, bank material, vegetation of the banks and floodplains, and land use.\n\nScour at bridge sites is typically classified as contraction (or constriction) scour and local scour. Contraction scour occurs over a whole cross-section as a result of the increased velocities and bed shear stresses arising from a narrowing of the channel by a construction such as a bridge. In general, the smaller the opening ratio the larger the waterway velocity and the greater the potential for scour. If the flow contracts from a wide floodplain, considerable scour and bank failure can occur. Relatively severe constrictions may require regular maintenance for decades to combat erosion. It is evident that one way to reduce contraction scour is to make the opening wider.\n\nLocal scour arises from the increased velocities and associated vortices as water accelerates around the corners of abutments, piers and spur dykes. The flow pattern around a cylindrical pier. The approaching flow decelerates as it nears the cylinder, coming to rest at the centre of the pier. The resulting stagnation pressure is highest near the water surface where the approach velocity is greatest, and smaller lower down. The downward pressure gradient at the pier face directs the flow downwards. Local pier scour begins when the downflow velocity near the stagnation point is strong enough to overcome the resistance to motion of the bed particles.\n\nDuring flooding, although the foundations of a bridge might not suffer damage, the fill behind abutments may scour. This type of damage typically occurs with single-span bridges with vertical wall abutments.\n\nThe examination process is normally conducted by hydrologists and hydrologic technicians, and involves a review of historical engineering information about the bridge, followed by a visual inspection. Information is recorded about the type of rock or sediment carried by the river, and the angle at which the river flows toward and away from the bridge. The area under the bridge is also inspected for holes and other evidence of scour.\n\nBridge examination begins by office investigation. The history of the bridge and any previous scour related problems should be noted. Once a bridge is recognized as a potential scour bridge, it will proceed to further evaluation including field review, scour vulnerability analysis and prioritizing. Bridges will also be rated in different categories and prioritized for scour risk. Once a bridge is evaluated as scour critical, the bridge owner should prepare a scour plan of action to mitigate the known and potential deficiencies. The plan may include installation of countermeasures, monitoring, inspections after flood events, and procedures for closing bridges if necessary.\n\nAlternatively, sensing technologies are also being put in place for scour assessment. The scour-sensing level can be classified into three levels: general bridge inspection, collecting limited data and collecting detailed data. There are three different types of scour-monitoring systems: fixed, portable and geophysical positioning. Each system can help to detect scour damage in an effort to avoid bridge failure, thus increasing public safety.\n\nHydraulic Engineering Circular No. 23 Manual (HEC-23) contains general design guidelines as scour countermeasures that are applicable to piers and abutments. The design guideline numbering in the following table indicates the HEC-23 design guideline chapter.\n\nBend way weirs, spurs and guide banks can help to align the upstream flow while riprap, gabions, articulated concrete blocks and grout filled mattresses can mechanically stabilize the pier and abutment slopes. \nRiprap remains the most common countermeasure used to prevent scour at bridge abutments. A number of physical additions to the abutments of bridges can help prevent scour, such as the installation of gabions and stone pitching upstream from the foundation. The addition of sheet piles or interlocking prefabricated concrete blocks can also offer protection. These countermeasures do not change the scouring flow and are temporary since the components are known to move or be washed away in a flood. FHWA recommends design criteria in HEC-18 and 23, such as avoiding unfavourable flow patterns, streamlining the abutments, and designing pier foundations resistant to scour without depending upon the use of riprap or other countermeasures.\n\nTrapezoidal-shaped channels through a bridge can significantly decrease \"local scour\" depths compared to vertical wall abutments, as they provide a smoother transition through a bridge opening. This eliminates abrupt corners that cause turbulent areas. Spur dikes, barbs, groynes, and vanes are river training structures that change stream hydraulics to mitigate undesirable erosion or deposits. They are usually used on unstable stream channels to help redirect stream flow to more desirable locations through the bridge. The insertion of piles or deeper footings is also used to help strengthen bridges.\n\nHydraulic Engineering Circular No. 18 Manual (HEC-18) was published by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). This manual includes several techniques of estimating scour depth. The empirical scour equations for live bed scour, clear water scour, and local scour at piers and abutment are shown in Chapter 5-General Scour section. The total scour depth is determined by adding three scour components which includes the long-term aggradation and degradation of the river bed, general scour at the bridge and local scour at the piers or abutment. However, research had shown that the standard equations in HEC-18 over-predict scour depth for a number of hydraulic and geologic conditions. Most of the HEC-18 relationships are based on laboratory flume studies conducted with sand-sized sediments increased with factors of safety that are not easily recognizable or adjustable. Sand and fine gravel are the most easily eroded bed materials, but streams frequently contain much more scour resistant materials such as compact till, stiff clay, and shale. The consequences of using design methods based on a single soil type are especially significant for many major physiographic provinces with distinctly different geologic conditions and foundation materials. This can lead to overly conservative design values for scour in low risk or non-critical hydrologic conditions. Thus, equation improvements are continued to be made in an effort to minimize the underestimation and overestimation of scour.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43326885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43326885", "title": "COM DEV International", "text": "COM DEV International\n\nCOM DEV International is a satellite technology, space sciences and telecommunications company with headquarters in Cambridge, Ontario, Canada. The company has branches and offices in Ottawa, the United States, the United Kingdom, China and India.\n\nCOM DEV develops and manufactures specialized satellite systems, including microwave systems, switches, optical systems, specialized satellite antennas, as well as components for the aviation and aerospace industry. The company produces custom equipment designs for commercial, military and civilian purposes, as well as providing contract research for the space sciences.\n\nThe company was founded in 1974 and specialized in microwave technology for the aviation and aerospace industry. COM DEV has gone on to become a leader in space satellite componentry and hardware, specializing in telecommunication systems, and has since become a global designer and builder of telecommunication components and systems for space satellites, as well as one of Canada's largest sources of spacecraft instrumentation.\n\nIn 2001 its space products division opened an approximate $7M Surface Acoustic Wave (SAW) development and manufacturing laboratory in its Cambridge facility.\n\nIn 2005 it purchased the EMS Technologies Space Science optical division in Ottawa, formerly CAL Corporation, from MacDonald, Dettwiler and Associates for $5M.\n\nIn 2007 it purchased a Passive Microwave division in El Segundo California for $8.75M.\n\nIn 2010 it purchased Ottawa-based space instrument supplier Routes AstroEngineering for $1.7M.\n\nIn 2010 it established a subsidiary called exactEarth(TM) offering global ship tracking data services.\n\nIn 2015 it purchased MESL Microwave of Edinburgh, Scotland.\n\nIn 2015 it entered the waveguide market with the purchase of Pacific Wave Systems (PWS) of Garden Grove, California.\n\nOn November 15, 2015, Honeywell announced it would acquire COM DEV, and that it would become part of Honeywell's Defense and Space business. On Feb. 4, 2016 Honeywell announced that it had completed the acquisition, and has since been renamed Honeywell Aerospace.\n\nSince the 1990s the company has manufactured components for satellites including:\n\nThe company has developed and built satellites assemblies or components for over 900 satellite missions, including:\n\nUpcoming missions include:\n\nPast projects have also included an Automatic Identification System (AIS) validation nanosatellite launched on an Antrix PSLV-C9 vehicle from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota, India in April 2008. The AIS experimental spacecraft was built under contract by the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies (UTIAS) Space Flight Laboratory (SFL), which also designated with the responsibility for its operation.\n\nThe company provides research and development work in aeronautics and space technology. Many modules of the company are used in many well-known space probes and satellites. The company cooperates with major space agencies, including NASA, the European Space Agency (ESA), JAXA, Indian Space Research Organisation and the Canadian Space Agency (CSA).\n\n\n Citations \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3985880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3985880", "title": "Clarkeite", "text": "Clarkeite\n\nClarkeite is a uranium oxide mineral of composition (Na,Ca,Pb)(UO)(O,OH) or (Na,Ca,Pb)(UO)O(OH)·0-1HO.\n\nThe color of samples varies from dark brown to reddish orange. Clarkeite forms by oxidation and replacement of uraninite late during pegmatite crystallization. Although uraninite-bearing granite pegmatites are common, clarkeite is rare and occurs intimately intergrown with other uranium minerals.\n\nIt is known from only two localities; the Spruce Pine pegmatite district in western North Carolina, US, and Rajputana, in the Ajmer district, India. Clarkeite is the only known naturally occurring high-temperature uranate. The general formula for ideal clarkeite is Na[(UO)O(OH)](HO).\n\nIt was named for Frank Wigglesworth Clarke (1847–1931), American mineral chemist, and former chief chemist of the United States Geological Survey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3755359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3755359", "title": "Confluence", "text": "Confluence\n\nIn geography, a confluence (also: \"conflux\") occurs where two or more flowing bodies of water join together to form a single channel. A confluence can occur in several configurations: at the point where a tributary joins a larger river (main stem); or where two streams meet to become the source of a river of a new name (such as the confluence of the Monongahela and Allegheny rivers at Pittsburgh, forming the Ohio); or where two separated channels of a river (forming a river island) rejoin at the downstream end.\n\nConfluences are studied in a variety of sciences. Hydrology studies the characteristic flow patterns of confluences and how they give rise to patterns of erosion, bars, and scour pools. The water flows and their consequences are often studied with mathematical models. Confluences are relevant to the distribution of living organisms (i.e., ecology) as well; \"the general pattern [downstream of confluences] of increasing stream flow and decreasing slopes drives a corresponding shift in habitat characteristics.\"\n\nAnother science relevant to the study of confluences is chemistry, because sometimes the mixing of the waters of two streams triggers a chemical reaction, particularly in a polluted stream. The United States Geological Survey gives an example: \"chemical changes occur when a stream contaminated with acid mine drainage combines with a stream with near-neutral pH water; these reactions happen very rapidly and influence the subsequent transport of metals downstream of the mixing zone.\"\n\nA natural phenomenon at confluences that is obvious even to casual observers is a difference in color between the two streams; see images in this article for several examples. According to Lynch, \"the color of each river is determined by many things: type and amount of vegetation in the watershed, geological properties, dissolved chemicals, sediments and biologic content – usually algae.\" Lynch also notes that color differences can persist for miles downstream before they finally blend completely.\n\nHydrodynamic behaviour of flow in a confluence can be divided into six distinct features which are commonly called confluence flow zones (CFZ). These include\n\n\nSince rivers often serve as political boundaries, confluences sometimes demarcate three abutting political entities, such as nations, states, or provinces, forming a tripoint. Various examples are found in the list below.\n\nA number of major cities, such as Chongqing, St. Louis, and Khartoum, arose at confluences; further examples appear in the list. Within a city, a confluence often forms a visually prominent point, so that confluences are sometimes chosen as the site of prominent public buildings or monuments, as in Koblenz, Lyon, and Winnipeg. Cities also often build parks at confluences, sometimes as projects of municipal improvement, as at Portland and Pittsburgh. In other cases, a confluence is an industrial site, as in Philadelphia or Mannheim. Often a confluence lies in the shared floodplain of the two rivers and nothing is built on it, for example at Manaus, described below.\n\nOne other way that confluences may be employed by humans is as a sacred place in a religion. Rogers suggests that for the ancient peoples of the Iron Age in northwest Europe, watery locations were often sacred, especially sources and confluences. Pre-Christian Slavic peoples chose confluences as the sites for fortified triangular temples, where they practiced human sacrifice and other sacred rites. In Hinduism, the confluence of two sacred rivers often is a pilgrimage site for ritual bathing. In Pittsburgh, a number of adherents to Mayanism consider their city's confluence to be sacred.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMississippi basin\nAtlantic watersheds\nPacific watersheds\n\n\nOccasionally \"confluence\" is used to describe the meeting of tidal or other non-riverine bodies of water, such as two canals or a canal and a lake. A one-mile (1.6 km) portion of the Industrial Canal in New Orleans accommodates the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway and the Mississippi River-Gulf Outlet Canal; therefore those three waterways are confluent there.\n\nThe term confluence also applies to the merger of the flow of two glaciers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51033030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51033030", "title": "DLR-Tubsat", "text": "DLR-Tubsat\n\nDLR-Tubsat (a.k.a. \"TUBSAT\") was a German remote sensing microsatellite, developed in joint venture between Technical University of Berlin (TUB) and German Aerospace Center (DLR). TUB was responsible for the satellite bus and DLR was responsible for the payload. The satellite was launched into orbit on 26 May 1999, on the fifth mission of the PSLV program PSLV-C2. The launch took place in the Sriharikota Launching Range. The satellite had an expected life of one year.\n\nThe prime objective of DLR-Tubsat was to test attitude control system (S/C attitude recovery from hibernation). The secondary objective of the mission was to test a TV camera system for disaster monitoring with the goal of the introduction of an interactive Earth observation concept, where the target is not identified in advance, a search action may be involved, or a particular target region has to be followed visually from orbit.\n\n"}
{"id": "40612564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40612564", "title": "Hazard quotient", "text": "Hazard quotient\n\nA hazard quotient is the ratio of the potential exposure to a substance and the level at which no adverse effects are expected. If the Hazard Quotient is calculated to be less than 1, then no adverse health effects are expected as a result of exposure. If the Hazard Quotient is greater than 1, then adverse health effects are possible. The Hazard Quotient cannot be translated to a probability that adverse health effects will occur, and is unlikely to be proportional to risk. It is especially important to note that a Hazard Quotient exceeding 1 does not necessarily mean that adverse effects will occur.\n\n\"This article is based on material from the public domain U.S. Federal Government document \"NATA Glossary of Terms\"\"\n"}
{"id": "52636490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52636490", "title": "Hybrid wood", "text": "Hybrid wood\n\nHybrid wood or wood hybrid systems (WHS) is a multilayer composite material, composed on the surface of a skin made of composite wood (WPC) adhering to an underneath structural core, in general aluminum. Invented in Japan in 2008, this technological evolution is based on wood composite technology which was conceived in 1972 by Sadao Nishibori and patented in 1983 to substitute threatened exotic wood species. WHS are not fibre-reinforced plastic (FRP).\nIn truth, speaking of hybrid wood profiles only makes sense when the outer layer – the composite wood – and the core – aluminum – are adhering sufficiently to each other to prevent any delamination under any climatic conditions to which they may be exposed. To this day, only coextrusion at high temperature of a powerful adhesive and of composite wood allows the \"fusion\" of 2 materials as different as aluminum and composite wood. This adhesiveness is so powerful that bending the profiles is possible even at very low radii, thus broadening significantly the fields of applications.\n\nIn the construction, decoration or design industry sector, hybrid woods have the look, feel and sometimes smell of natural wood. They are easier to install and better performing than natural wood and their exceptional properties allow utilizations that are many times broader than those of wood. They are used in exterior and interior applications such as façades trims, cladding, louvers, screens, pergola, canopies or any durable installations such as urban furniture for instance.\n\nWood hybrid profiles are obtained through extrusion. The wood composite covers a core in anodized aluminum core. The optimal adhesiveness between these two materials is made possible by applying a coextruded intermediate adhesive layer. The wood composite layer can be applied on only one side of the profile if so required. The wood fibers to resins ratio as well as the type of core vary according to the desired characteristics. Manufacturing of these profiles generates a low carbon print only if the raw materials are of recycled origin.\n\nThe lifetime of wood hybrid profiles is significantly longer than that of exotic woods, both internally and externally. For the same cross section, the aluminum used for the core allows the profile to be lighter, more stable (no shrinkage, no warping, no splinter, no knot) and more rigid than a natural wood profile, thus allowing longer spans between supports or longer cantilevers. Over time and without maintenance the aspect of the overall installation as well of the surface of the profiles will remain in accordance to the wishes of the designer or the architect. The material is rot proof, is insensitive to bad weather, sun exposure, fungus or termites. The combination of the physical properties of the core and of the aesthetics of the composite wood allows hybrid woods to outperform:\n\n\nHollow composite woods, invented in 1992, offer a weak mechanical resistance. During their installation as railings or louvers, it is imperative that metallic supporting rods be inserted in the cells in order to avoid the profiles to flex, buckle or warp. Without these rods and for this particular technology, these disturbances remain unavoidable under the joint actions of bad weather, of the sun and of moisture intake by the material. The use of the supporting rods creates another issue: the notable difference of the expansion coefficient of both raw materials (a 3.5 factor between hybrid wood and metal) creates frequent disturbances, even when installation has been carefully made. For a horizontal installation, the stagnation of condensation waters between composite and metal decreases the durability of the installation.\n\nIn 2008, major technological advancements allowed to marry two distinct technologies: extrusion of a correctly assayed compound and application through extrusion at high temperature of a layered adhesive. This \"fusion\" of such different materials – composite wood and aluminum – is made possible by the thin adhesive layered sandwiched between outer skin and central core. This breakthrough allows today to market easy to install products with the look and feel of exotic wood and perfectly durable without maintenance.\n\nFor new buildings as well as for renovations, hybrid wood profiles are perfectly suitable for cladding, siding, screen wall, windbreak, fence, pergola, trims, louvers and railings.\n\n"}
{"id": "49963426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49963426", "title": "Kanat Bozumbayev", "text": "Kanat Bozumbayev\n\nKanat Aldabergenovich Bozumbayev (, ) has been the minister of energy since 25 March 2016.\n\nBozumbayev was born on January 8, 1969.\n\nHe graduated from Kazakh State Academy of Management in Narxoz University in 1993. From September to November 1997, he is the head of the department of regional policy in the Ministry of Economy and Trade. From September 1998 to February 2001, he served as the director of the department of oil and gas and vice minister in the Ministry of Energy, Industry and Trade.\n\nHe previously served as the governor of Pavlodar region prior to his appointment as Energy Minister.\n"}
{"id": "3609690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3609690", "title": "King Solomon's Ring (book)", "text": "King Solomon's Ring (book)\n\nKing Solomon's Ring is a zoological book for the general audience, written by the Austrian scientist Konrad Lorenz in 1949. The first English-language edition appeared in 1952.\n\nThe book's title refers to the legendary Seal of Solomon, a ring that supposedly gave King Solomon the power to speak to animals. Lorenz claims that he likewise achieved this feat of communication with several species. He accomplished this by raising them in and around his home and observing their behavior. \"King Solomon's Ring\" describes the methods of his investigation, and his resulting findings about animal psychology.\n\nLorenz's findings include the surprisingly refined social system of the common Eurasian jackdaw, the uncanny behavior and bodily features of the tiny water shrew, and the surprisingly complex interactions of seemingly unintelligent aquarium fish. He interlards his narrative with anecdotes based on his unusual methods, without which he could not have made many of his observations.\n\n\"King Solomon's Ring\" dispels several common misconceptions about animals' intelligence, but at the same time points out many of their similarities with humans, although some of these similarities come from speculative extrapolations (in fact, Lorenz has been criticized for excessive anthropomorphism). \"King Solomon's Ring\" also addresses the issue of keeping pets. Lorenz praises the benefits that a pet owner derives from his pet, however, he also describes the hazards that an animal can pose to the inhabitants and material contents of a house, and the ways in which a pet's captivity can make it miserable, and explains how to avoid each of these causes for discontent.\n\nA few of the findings it presents have found their way into common knowledge since its publication, such as the phenomenon of imprinting. , it has been printed at least six times in English, and is still being published.\n\n"}
{"id": "8728186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8728186", "title": "Lava spine", "text": "Lava spine\n\nA lava spine is a vertically growing monolith of viscous lava that is slowly forced from a volcanic vent, such as those growing on a lava dome (Bates & Jackson, 1987). It may also be considered a kind of dome called a spiny dome (Fink & Anderson, 2000). In February 1983, the dome activity of Mount St. Helens culminated in a spine that reached a height of about 100 ft before collapsing after two weeks, but another lava spine called the Whaleback never collapsed. A diatreme may also be referred to as a lava spine, such as the example of Mount Pelee in 1902. \n"}
{"id": "23715461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23715461", "title": "Limnological Review", "text": "Limnological Review\n\nLimnological Review () is an official journal of Polish Limnological Society and publishes original papers that deal with\ntheoretical and applied freshwater research, including such topics as limnology, ecohydrology, chemistry, physics, biology, sedymentology, hydrogeology and environmental engineering.\n\n"}
{"id": "35593749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35593749", "title": "List of Cascade Range topics", "text": "List of Cascade Range topics\n\nThis article contains a list of volcanoes and a list of protected areas associated with the Cascade Range of the Pacific Northwest of North America.\n\nVolcanoes south of the Fraser River in the Cascade Volcanic Arc (a geological term) belong to the Cascade Range (a geographic term). Peaks are listed north to south.\n\n\n\nThere are four U.S. National Parks in the Cascade Range, one National Scenic Area, and many U.S. National Monuments, U.S. Wilderness Areas, and U.S. National Forests. Each classification protects the various glaciers, volcanoes, geothermal fields, rivers, lakes, forests, and wildlife to varying degrees.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5879937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5879937", "title": "List of Dictynidae species", "text": "List of Dictynidae species\n\nThis page lists all described species of the spider family Dictynidae as of Dec. 25, 2016.\n\n\"Adenodictyna\" \n\n\"Aebutina\" \n\n\"Ajmonia\" \n\n\"Altella\" \n\n\"Anaxibia\" \n\n\"Arangina\" \n\n\"Archaeodictyna\" \n\n\"Arctella\" \n\n\"Argenna\" \n\n\"Argennina\" \n\n\"Atelolathys\" \n\n\"Banaidja\" \n\n\"Bannaella\" \n\n\"Blabomma\" \n\n\"Brigittea\" \n\n\"Brommella\" \n\n\"Callevophthalmus\" \n\n\"Chaerea\" \n\n\"Chorizomma\" \n\n\"Cicurina\" \n\n\"Devade\" \n\n\"Dictyna\" \n\n\"Dictynomorpha\" \n\n\"Emblyna\" \n\n\"Hackmania\" \n\n\"Helenactyna\" \n\n\"Hoplolathys\" \n\n\"Iviella\" \n\n\"Lathys\" \n\n\"Mallos\" \n\n\"Marilynia\" \n\n\"Mashimo\" \n\n\"Mastigusa\" \n\n\"Mexitlia\" \n\n\"Mizaga\" \n\n\"Nigma\" \n\n\"Paradictyna\" \n\n\"Paratheuma\" \n\n\"Penangodyna\" \n\n\"Phantyna\" \n\n\"Qiyunia\" \n\n\"Rhion\" \n\n\"Saltonia\" \n\n\"Scotolathys\" \n\n\"Shango\" \n\n\"Sudesna\" \n\n\"Tahuantina\" \n\n\"Tandil\" \n\n\"Thallumetus\" \n\n\"Tivyna\" \n\n\"Tricholathys\" \n\n\"Viridictyna\" \n\n\"Yorima\" \n\n"}
{"id": "47019427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47019427", "title": "List of Marasmius species", "text": "List of Marasmius species\n\nThis is a list of species in the large agaric genus \"Marasmius\". , Index Fungorum lists 949 species in the genus.\nA B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V U W X Y Z\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26760418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26760418", "title": "List of Ramsar sites in Australia", "text": "List of Ramsar sites in Australia\n\nThis is a list of wetlands in Australia that are designated by the Ramsar Convention as sites of international importance. Under the Convention, the wetlands are considered as being of significant value not only for the Australian community, but for humanity as a whole.\n\nThe Ramsar Convention on Wetlands came into force for Australia on . As of 28 February 2018, Australia has 66 sites designated as Wetlands of International Importance, with a total area of . \n\nThe management of Ramsar sites listed within Australia is controlled at national level by the Australian government via the \"Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999\" and its accompanying regulations, the \"Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Regulations 2000\".\n\nThe Act, as of 2015, lists the principles required for meeting treaty obligations in respect to “wetlands of international importance” including “environmental approvals” (i.e. sections 16-17B), the prerequisites for the making of both “declarations” and “bilateral agreements” (i.e. sections 34C and 37F, and 52 respectively), the approval process (i.e. section 138), “strategic assessments” (i.e. section 134J), and the management approach (i.e. sections 325 to 336 inclusive).\n\nThe applicable regulation (i.e. regulation 10.02) lists three requirements as of 2015. Firstly, a set of general principles for management is described including the need for \"public consultation,\" the involvement of parties with an interest and/or who may be affected by the management of wetland, as well as allowing for \"continuing community and technical input.\" Secondly, the requirements for the management plan to be prepared for each listed wetland are described. Thirdly, the requirements for the “environmental impact assessment and approval\" are described for parties wishing to undertake activities that are likely to have \"a significant impact on the ecological character of a Ramsar wetland.\"\n\nThe following wetlands are located in the Australian Capital Territory:\n\nThe following wetlands are located in New South Wales:\n\nThe following wetlands are located in the Northern Territory:\n\nThe following wetlands are located in Queensland:\n\nThe following wetlands are located in South Australia:\n\nThe following wetlands are located in Tasmania:\n\nThe following wetlands are located in Victoria:\n\nThe following wetlands are located in Western Australia:\n\nThe following wetlands are located in the External territories:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36815029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36815029", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Conwy", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Conwy\n\nThis is a list of the Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in the Conwy Area of Search (AoS).\n"}
{"id": "6129169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6129169", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Falkirk and Clackmannan", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Falkirk and Clackmannan\n\nThe following is a list of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in the Falkirk and Clackmannan Area of Search. For other areas, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n\n"}
{"id": "36815035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36815035", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Merthyr Tydfil", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Merthyr Tydfil\n\nThis is a list of the Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in the Merthyr Tydfil Area of Search (AoS).\n\n"}
{"id": "8280867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8280867", "title": "List of animals by number of neurons", "text": "List of animals by number of neurons\n\nThis is a list of representative animals by the number of neurons in their whole nervous system and the number of neurons in their brain (for those with a brain). These numbers are estimates derived by multiplying the density of neurons in a particular animal by the average volume of the animal's brain.\n\nThe whole human brain contains 86 billion neurons and roughly 16 billion neurons in the cerebral cortex.\n\nNeurons are the cells that transmit information in an animal's nervous system so that it can sense stimuli from its environment and behave accordingly. Not all animals have neurons; \"Trichoplax\" and sponges lack nerve cells altogether.\n\nNeurons may be packed to form structures such as the brain of vertebrates or the neural ganglions of insects.\n\nThe number of neurons and their relative abundance in different parts of the brain is a determinant of neural function and, consequently, of behavior.\n\nAll numbers for neurons (except Caenorhabditis and Ciona), and all numbers for synapses (except Ciona) are estimations.\nNon-mammals are included in this list because, although only mammals have a cerebral cortex, the pallium of reptiles and birds is functionally similar to the mammalian cortex and is therefore also frequently referred to as \"cortex\".\n\n"}
{"id": "13392980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13392980", "title": "List of atractaspidid species and subspecies", "text": "List of atractaspidid species and subspecies\n\nThis is a list of all genera, species and subspecies of the family Atractaspididae, otherwise referred to as African burrowing asps, stiletto snakes, or atractaspidids. It follows the taxonomy currently provided by ITIS, which is based on the continuing work of Dr. Roy McDiarmid.\n\n"}
{"id": "4139170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4139170", "title": "List of national parks of Korea", "text": "List of national parks of Korea\n\nThis is a list of national parks in Korea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33802674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33802674", "title": "List of natural history dealers", "text": "List of natural history dealers\n\nNatural history specimen dealers had an important role in the development of science in the 18th, 19th and early 20th centuries. They supplied the rapidly growing, both in size and number, museums and educational establishments and private collectors whose collections, either in entirety or parts finally entered museums.\nMost sold not just zoological, botanical and geological specimens but also \nequipment and books. Many also sold archaeological and ethnographic items.They purchased \nspecimens from professional and amateur collectors, sometimes collected themselves as well as acting as agents for the sale of \ncollections. Many were based in mercantile centres notably Amsterdam, Hamburg, and London or \nin major cities. Some were specialists and some were taxonomic authorities who wrote scientific works and manuals, some functioned as trading museums or institutes.\n\nThis is a list of natural history dealers from the 16th to the 19th century: here are names that are frequently encountered in museum collections.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38626321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38626321", "title": "List of nature centers in New Hampshire", "text": "List of nature centers in New Hampshire\n\nThis is a list of nature centers and environmental education centers in the state of New Hampshire, United States. \n\nTo use the sortable tables: click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n\n"}
{"id": "9018999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9018999", "title": "List of papaya diseases", "text": "List of papaya diseases\n\nThis article is a list of diseases of papaya (\"Carica papaya\").\n\n"}
{"id": "22492414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22492414", "title": "List of rivers of Algeria", "text": "List of rivers of Algeria\n\nThis is a list of rivers in Algeria. This list is arranged west to east by drainage basin, with respective tributaries indented under each larger stream's name.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "90309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90309", "title": "Malinalxochitl", "text": "Malinalxochitl\n\nIn Aztec mythology, Malinalxochitl (, from Nahuatl \"Malinalli,\" grass, and \"Xochitl,\" flower) was a sorceress and goddess of snakes, scorpions and insects of the desert. Her brother was Huitzilopochtli.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "370464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=370464", "title": "Mascarene Islands", "text": "Mascarene Islands\n\nThe Mascarene Islands (, ) or Mascarenes or Mascarenhas Archipelago is a group of islands in the Indian Ocean east of Madagascar consisting of Mauritius, Réunion and Rodrigues. Their name derives from the Portuguese navigator Pedro Mascarenhas, who first visited them in April 1512. The islands share a common geologic origin in the volcanism of the Réunion hotspot beneath the Mascarene Plateau and form a distinct ecoregion with a unique flora and fauna.\n\nThe archipelago comprises three large islands, Mauritius, Réunion, and Rodrigues, plus a number of volcanic remnants in the tropics of the southwestern Indian Ocean, generally between 700 and 1500 kilometres east of Madagascar. The terrain includes a variety of reefs, atolls, and small islands. They present various topographical and edaphic regions. On the largest islands these gave rise to unusual biodiversity. The climate is oceanic and tropical.\n\nThe islands are volcanic in origin; Saya de Malha (35 mya) was the first of the Mascarene islands to rise out of the Indian Ocean due to the Réunion hotspot, followed by Nazareth Bank (some 2,000 years later), Soudan Bank and Cargados Carajos. The youngest islands to form were Mauritius (7–10 mya), the oldest of the existing islands, created along with the undersea Rodrigues ridge. The islands of Rodrigues and Réunion were created in the last two million years. Réunion is the largest of the islands (2,500 km), followed by Mauritius (1,900 km) and Rodrigues (110 km). Eventually Saya de Malha, Nazareth and Soudan were completely submerged, Cargados Carajos remaining as a coral atoll. The Réunion hotspot was beginning to cool and Rodrigues came out as a small island.\n\nRéunion is home to the highest peaks in the Mascarenes, the shield volcanoes Piton des Neiges (3,069 m) and Piton de la Fournaise (2,525 m). Piton de la Fournaise, on the southeastern corner of Réunion, is one of the most active volcanoes in the world, erupting last in 2017. Piton de la Petite Rivière Noire (828 m) is the highest peak on Mauritius, and the gentle hills of Rodrigues rise to only 390 m.\n\nThe Mascarene Plateau is an undersea plateau that extends approximately 2000 km, from the Seychelles to Réunion. The plateau covers an area of over 115,000 km of shallow water, with depths ranging from 8 to 150 meters, plunging to 4000 m to the abyssal plain at its edges. The southern part of the plateau, including the Saya de Malha Bank, Nazareth Bank, Soudan Banks and Cargados Carajos Shoals (Saint Brandon) (then one large island), was formed by the Réunion hotspot. These were once volcanic islands, much like Mauritius and Réunion, which have now sunk or eroded to below sea level or, in the case of the Cargados Carajos, to low coral islands. The Saya de Malha Bank formed 35 million years ago, and the Nazareth Bank and the Cargados Carajos shoals after that. Limestone banks found on the plateau are the remnants of coral reefs, indicating that the plateau was a succession of islands. Some of the banks may have been islands as recently as 18,000–6,000 years ago, when sea levels were as much as 130 meters lower during the most recent ice age.\n\nThe habitats of the islands differ in size, topography, age, and in proximity to the nearest major land mass, namely (Madagascar). As is common among remote islands, the Mascarene fauna and flora display a high degree of endemism; they include over a thousand species of which several hundred are endemic. There also are many introduced species but until Europeans first settled the islands in the sixteenth century the Mascarenes are not known to have harboured any human populations, so much of the island's wildlife, which would have gone extinct much earlier had any native people lived there, was still flourishing during the early days of settlement.\n\nIn prehistoric times the islands were covered in a diverse range of tropical moist broadleaf forest. At present however, though the Mascarene islands form a distinct ecoregion, known as the \"Mascarene forests\", the ecoregion is not homogeneous, and comprises at least five fairly distinct vegetation zones that reflect variations in altitude and in moisture regime.\n\nThe freshwater biota includes coastal wetlands and swamp forests, grading into rainforest to windward and to lowland dry forest to leeward. Dryland areas include palm savannas, montane deciduous forests and heathlands on the highest peaks of Réunion. The dry lowland forests range from sea level to elevations of some 200 metres. They occur in regions with less than 1000 mm average annual rainfall. These dry lowland forests are dominated by palms such as Latania species and Dictyosperma album, and by the palm-like screw-pines (Pandanus species). There also are sclerophyllous trees such as species in the family Combretaceae, for example Terminalia bentzoe \n\nSemi-dry sclerophyllous forests occur between the coastal areas and an altitude of 360 metres on Mauritius and Rodrigues. On Réunion only small relict patches remain at altitudes up to 750 metres on the western slopes. This semi-dry ecosystem occurs where the average annual rainfall is about 1000–1500 mm. Characteristic families of the flora in the include Ebenaceae, with ebony species in the genus Diospyros. Other tree families are occurring such as Pleurostylia spp. (Celastraceae), Foetidia spp. (Lecythidaceae), Olea europea subsp. africana (Oleaceae), Cossinia pinnata (Sapindaceae), Dombeya spp. (Sterculiaceae), and a variety of Sapotaceae species Sideroxylon boutonianum, Sideroxylon borbonicum spp. and Mimusops. The ecosystem is also home to several spectacular endemic species of Hibiscus (Malvaceae) Zanthoxylum spp. (Rutaceae), Obetia ficifolia (Urticaceae), and Scolopia heterophylla (Flacourtiaceae).\n\nThe lowland rainforests are characterized by dense evergreen forests, with a canopy exceeding 30 meters. With an average annual rainfall of 1500–6000 mm, occur on Mauritius island above 360 m and all over the eastern lowlands from the coast to 800–900 m and, on the western side. On Réunion island the Lowland rainforests is present from 750 to 1100 m. These\nforests have a canopy of tall trees up to 30 m high and represent the more diversified plant communities of the Mascarene Islands. Characteristic plants include trees in the plant family Sapotaceae e.g. Mimusops spp. Labourdonnaisia spp., Hernandiaceae Hernandia mascarenensis, Clusiaceae Calophyllum spp., and Myrtaceae Syzygium spp., Eugenia spp., Sideroxylon spp., Monimiastrum spp.; shrubs in the plant family Rubiaceae (Gaertnera spp., Chassalia spp., Bertiera spp., Coffea spp.); bamboos as Nastus borbonicus, numerous species of orchids (e.g., Angraecum spp., Bulbophyllum spp.) and ferns e.g., Asplenium spp., Hymenophyllum spp., Trichomanes spp., Elaphoglossum spp., Marattia fraxinea.\n\nThe cloud forests, a dense type of hygrophilous rainforest, occur on Réunion between 800 and 1900 m on eastern slopes with an average annual rainfall 2000–10,000 mm, and between 1100 and 2000 m on western slopes with an average annual rainfall 2000–3000 mm and are also restricted to a small area of Mauritius around the montane area \"Montagne Cocotte\" above 750 m on Mauritius with an average annual rainfall 4500–5500 mm. These type of forests is present on both islands with a canopy of 6 to 10 m high. They are rich in epiphytes (orchids, ferns, mosses, lichens), emergent tree ferns (Cyathea spp.), and, originally, palms (Acanthophoenix rubra), but these now survive only in areas of Réunion where poaching has not wiped them out. Untransformed cloud forests still cover large areas on Réunion with 44,000 ha in 2005.\nThese forests are characterized by trees such as Dombeya spp., on the Réunion island only, and species in the plant family Monimiaceae (Monimia spp., Tambourissa spp.) as canopy species, with small trees and shrubs sucth as Psiadia spp. (Asteraceae) and Melicope spp. (Rutaceae) in the understory. They also include large areas of three monodominant plant communities, forests with Acacia heterophylla (Fabaceae) as canopy species that are very similar to Acacia koa forests in Hawaii, thickets dominated by Erica reunionensis (Ericaceae), or hyperhumid screw-pine forest (Pandanus montanus).\n\nThe subalpine scrub with an average annual rainfall 2000–6000 mm is above the tree line to 1800–2000 m, at elevations where frosts occur regularly in winter, dominated by shrubs in the plant families of Ericaceae (Erica spp.), Asteraceae (Hubertia spp., Psiadia spp., Stoebe passerinoides), and Rhamnaceae (Phylica nitida), with some notable endemic species suchs Heterochaenia rivalsii (Campanulaceae), Eriotrix commersonii (Asteraceae), and Cynoglossum borbonicum (Boraginaceae).\n\nThe summits of the volcanoes are covered by large mineral areas with sparse grasslands rich in endemic grasses (Poaceae, e.g., Festuca borbonica, Agrostis salaziensis, Pennisetum caffrum) and orchids (Orchidaceae, e.g., Disa borbonica), ericoid thickets, or thickets of the small tree Sophora denudata (Fabaceae), depending on substrate texture and age.\n\nFinally the Mascarene Islands are surrounded by approximately 750 square km of coral reef. Rodrigues has nearly continuous fringing reefs bounding an extensive lagoon with deep channels, whereas Mauritius is surrounded by a discontinuous fringing reef and a small barrier reef. In contrast, Réunion has very short stretches of narrow fringing reefs along the western and southwestern coasts only. The islets of the Cargados Carajos Shoals, which have a very depauperate terrestrial biota owing to being so low-lying and swamped during cyclones, are bound to the east by an extensive arc of fringing reef, which accounts for ∼30% of the reefs of the Mascarene Islands. Lagoon reefs and reef flats are dominated by scleractinian corals such as branching and tabular Acropora, Porites massives, foliaceous Montipora and Pavona, and sand consolidated with beds of seagrass such Halophila spp. (Hydrocharitaceae).\nAmong coral reef fishes, wrasses (Labridae), damselfish (Pomacentridae), carnivorous groupers (Serranidae), and surgeonfishes (Acanthuridae) have many species.\n\nMost of the indigenous Mascarene flora and fauna are thought to have descended originally from Madagascan and African ancestors. The Mascarenes are home to many endemic species of Dombeyoideae, the monotypic genus Psiloxylon (\"Psiloxylon mauritianum\"), and members of the family Monimiaceae, Escalloniaceae and Foetidia. Indigenous trees for example include species in the genera Ocotea, Erythrina, Sideroxylon and several species of palms in the genus Hyophorbe. Ferns are prominent components of the biotas of the islands, especially in the tropical forest. Most ferns disperse easily via ornithochory of their spores, allowing fairly frequent colonization from Madagascar and exchange among the Mascarene islands.\n\nOther endemic families include the Asteropeiaceae, Sarcolaenaceae and Sphaerosepalaceae (with psiloxylaceae ). The four largest families present in the Mascarene Islands are: Myrtaceae, Rubiaceae, Orchidaceae, and Euphorbiaceae, they comprise between 193 and 223 species each, for a total of 831 species, or 26.9% of the flowering plant flora. Another seven families contain 80 or more species each: Poaceae, Apocynaceae, Cyperaceae, Cunoniaceae, Rutaceae, Araliaceae, and Sapotaceae, representing an additional ca. 660 species in all, 21.3% of the angiosperm flora. Some families that have few species, but are distributed too in the Americas, showing its ancient related origin, are typically in wet areas and occur as relict species in wet Islands wideworld, with several families including Phyllanthaceae, Hernandiaceae, Lauraceae, Ebenaceae with Mauritius ebony, Diospyros tesselaria.\n\nThe increasing disappearance of young calvaria trees, is suggested due to \"Cylindraspis\" tortoises, fruit bats or the broad-billed parrot could have been dispersing the seeds.\n\nThe Tambalacoque (\"Sideroxylon grandiflorum\"), often called the dodo tree, is also threatened with extinction, although this is principally as a result of unripened seed destruction by the introduced crab-eating macaque (\"Macaca fascicularis\") rather than any connection to a reliance on the dodo to assist with seed germination after the seeds passed through the extinct bird's digestive tract.\n\nIn the Mascarenes, the angiosperms with 22 species have 21 endemic. The endemic Dombeyoideae from the Mascarenes are polyphyletic and split into nine clades. Trochetia appears monophyletic and more closely related to Eriolaena and Helmiopsis than to Dombeya. All Dombeya taxa are included in a clade together with Ruizia and Astiria, this means that Dombeya is paraphyletic. In terms of breeding systems the Malagasy Dombeyoideae are hermaphroditic, whereas those of the Mascarenes are considered dioecious. The polyphyly of the Mascarene Dombeyoideae suggests that dioecy has been acquired several times. At least five colonization events from Madagascar to the Mascarene archipelago were produced. The evolutionary history of two lineages of Mascarene Domeyoideae seems to be related to adaption to xeric habitats.\n\nIndeed, much of the Mascarenes' native fauna has become endangered or extinct since the human settlement of the islands in the 17th century. Settlers cleared most of the forests for agriculture and grazing, and introduced many exotic species, including pigs, rats, cats, monkeys, and mongooses.\n\nMany of the Mascarene birds evolved into flightless forms; the most famous of which was the extinct flightless pigeon, the dodo of Mauritius. As well as the dodo thirteen additional species of birds became extinct including the Réunion flightless ibis, broad-billed parrot, red rail, Rodrigues rail, Rodrigues solitaire. Today sixteen endemic bird species survive on the islands.\n\nContemporary sources state that the dodo used gizzard stones and could swallow ocotea fruits. Seed distribution of at least some \"Ocotea\" species is performed by frugivorous birds and there exist a few reports of \"solitaires\" from the Mascarenes without mention of which island these came from, and the term was also used for other species with \"solitary\" habits, such as the Réunion blue swamphen and the Réunion sacred ibis. At one point it was even believed that Réunion was the home of not only a white dodo, but also a white solitaire. In 1786, sub-fossil bones were discovered in a cave which confirmed Leguat's descriptions, but at this time no living residents of Rodrigues remembered having seen living birds. The star constellation Turdus Solitarius was named after this bird.\n\nMauritius, Réunion, and Rodrigues were also once each home to one or more species of giant tortoises, now extinct, which comprised the genus \"Cylindraspis\". There are thirteen living endemic reptile species, including a number of species of day geckoes (genus \"Phelsuma\").\n\nThe islands have no native mammals, except for bats such as the Mauritian flying fox.\nToday Mauritius has one of the highest population densities in the world and on all of the islands, there has been a great loss of habitat and many of the surviving endemic species are still threatened with extinction with little protection. Less than 40 percent of Réunion is covered with natural vegetation, only about 5 percent of Mauritius, and almost none of Rodrigues. On Réunion, forest has been cleared for agriculture and then overtaken by introduced plants. Mauritius was largely converted to sugar cane, tea, and conifer plantations. On Rodrigues the damage has been done by shifting cultivation.\n\nThe early colonial history of the islands, like that of the Caribbean, is a confusing story of takeovers between the rival Portuguese, Dutch, French and British colonizers, usually separate or in varying combinations, sometimes even with distant other colonies, e.g. in the East Indies.\n\nAround 1507, the explorer Diogo Fernandes Pereira discovered the island group. The area remained under nominal Portuguese rule until Étienne de Flacourt arrived with a French naval squadron and took possession in 1649. From 4 June 1735 to 23 March 1746, a single French Mascarene Islands chartered colony under one \"gouverneur général\" (governor general) contained Isle de France (now Mauritius), Île Bourbon (Réunion) and Séchelles (Seychelles). On 14 July 1767 this became a French crown colony, still under one governor general. From 3 February 1803 till 2 September 1810 the French colony of Indes-Orientales, under a \"capitaine général\" (captain-general), included Réunion and (nominally) the Seychelles.\n\nMauritius was formed 8–10 million years ago, and is geographically one of the oldest remaining islands in the group. It was discovered in the 10th century by the Arabs and was first named Dina Harobi, but the first permanent settlement was by the Dutch in 1638. It was seized in 1715 by France, who remained in control of it until the British took over in 1810. Mauritius gained independence in 1968.\n\nRodrigues was formed at around the same time as Reunion. It was first discovered by the Arabs but named after Portuguese navigator Diogo Rodrigues. It was under Dutch control in 1601 and settled by the French in 1691. Britain took possession of Rodrigues in 1809. When Mauritius gained independence in 1968, Rodrigues was forcefully joined to it. Rodrigues remains an autonomous region of Mauritius.\n\nRéunion was discovered first by the Arabs then by the Portuguese, who named it Santa Apolónia. It was then occupied by the French as part of Mauritius. It was first inhabited by French mutineers who arrived on the island between 1646 and 1669. It was given its current name in 1793. From 1810 to 1815 it was held by the British, before being returned to France. Réunion became an overseas department of France in 1946.\n\nCargados Carajos is the remnant of one or more large volcanic islands which sank with the rising tides. Today it is administered by Mauritius.\n\nSaya de Malha Bank is a large, submerged bank. Prehistorically it was a group of volcanic islands, and was joined to the Great Chagos Bank until continental drift pushed them apart.\n\nSoudan Banks are a group of low-lying banks on the Mascarene Plateau.\n\nNazareth Bank is located just north of Cargados Carajos, and prehistorically they were a single geological feature. Today it is a large, shallow fishing bank.\n\nHawkins Bank is located on the northernmost point of the Mascarene Plateau.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29205916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29205916", "title": "Ministry of Electricity and Renewable Energy (Egypt)", "text": "Ministry of Electricity and Renewable Energy (Egypt)\n\nThe Ministry of Electricity and Renewable Energy of Egypt is the government ministry in charge of managing and regulating the generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity in Egypt. Its headquarters are in Cairo. The current minister is Mohamed Shaker. The ministry was established in 1964 with presidential decree No. 147. \n\nAn agreement was made with Siemens, a German company, to implement power stations in Beni Suef, the New Administrative Capital, and Borollos by mid 2018.\n\nThe Aswan Dam, inaugurated in 1971, \"can generate 10 billion kilowatt-hours annually.\". \n\nA new high dam to pump and store water to produce electricity in Ataka was in the works in mid 2017 in conjunction with Sinohydro, a Chinese company.\n\nIn 2015, Egypt began negotiations with Russian company Rosatom, for building a nuclear power plant in Dabaa and by the end of 2016, the ministry and the company were in their final negotiations on the deal. By 2017, negotiations were completed.\n\nEni, an Italian company is working on the large petrol field discovered in Egypt in 2015.\n\nAs anticipated a year before, in September, 2018, a 4.4 billion agreement was signed for the building of coal-power plant in Hamrawein, Egypt and will take at least six years to complete and become operational.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "349868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=349868", "title": "Palaeogeography", "text": "Palaeogeography\n\nPalaeogeography (or paleogeography) is the study of historical geography, generally physical landscapes. Palaeogeography can also include the study of human or cultural environments. When the focus is specifically on the study of landforms, the term paleogeomorphology is sometimes used instead.\n\nPaleogeography yields information that is crucial to scientific understanding in a variety of contexts. For example, paleogeographic analysis of sedimentary basins plays a key role in the field of petroleum geology, because the ancient geomorphological environments of the Earth's surface are preserved in the stratigraphic record. Paleogeographers also study the sedimentary environment associated with fossils for clues to the evolutionary development of extinct species. And paleogeographic evidence contributed to the development of continental drift theory, and continues to inform current plate tectonic theories, yielding information about the shape and latitudinal location of supercontinents such as Pangaea and ancient oceans such as Panthalassa, thus enabling the reconstruction of prehistoric continents and oceans.\n\n"}
{"id": "23637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23637", "title": "Phase (matter)", "text": "Phase (matter)\n\nIn the physical sciences, a phase is a region of space (a thermodynamic system), throughout which all physical properties of a material are essentially uniform. Examples of physical properties include density, index of refraction, magnetization and chemical composition. A simple description is that a phase is a region of material that is chemically uniform, physically distinct, and (often) mechanically separable. In a system consisting of ice and water in a glass jar, the ice cubes are one phase, the water is a second phase, and the humid air is a third phase over the ice and water. The glass of the jar is another separate phase. (See )\n\nThe term \"phase\" is sometimes used as a synonym for state of matter, but there can be several immiscible phases of the same state of matter. Also, the term \"phase\" is sometimes used to refer to a set of equilibrium states demarcated in terms of state variables such as pressure and temperature by a phase boundary on a phase diagram. Because phase boundaries relate to changes in the organization of matter, such as a change from liquid to solid or a more subtle change from one crystal structure to another, this latter usage is similar to the use of \"phase\" as a synonym for state of matter. However, the state of matter and phase diagram usages are not commensurate with the formal definition given above and the intended meaning must be determined in part from the context in which the term is used.\n\nDistinct phases may be described as different states of matter such as gas, liquid, solid, plasma or Bose–Einstein condensate. Useful mesophases between solid and liquid form other states of matter.\n\nDistinct phases may also exist within a given state of matter. As shown in the diagram for iron alloys, several phases exist for both the solid and liquid states. Phases may also be differentiated based on solubility as in polar (hydrophilic) or non-polar (hydrophobic). A mixture of water (a polar liquid) and oil (a non-polar liquid) will spontaneously separate into two phases. Water has a very low solubility (is insoluble) in oil, and oil has a low solubility in water. Solubility is the maximum amount of a solute that can dissolve in a solvent before the solute ceases to dissolve and remains in a separate phase. A mixture can separate into more than two liquid phases and the concept of phase separation extends to solids, i.e., solids can form solid solutions or crystallize into distinct crystal phases. Metal pairs that are mutually soluble can form alloys, whereas metal pairs that are mutually insoluble cannot.\n\nAs many as eight immiscible liquid phases have been observed. Mutually immiscible liquid phases are formed from water (aqueous phase), hydrophobic organic solvents, perfluorocarbons (fluorous phase), silicones, several different metals, and also from molten phosphorus. Not all organic solvents are completely miscible, e.g. a mixture of ethylene glycol and toluene may separate into two distinct organic phases.\n\nPhases do not need to macroscopically separate spontaneously. Emulsions and colloids are examples of immiscible phase pair combinations that do not physically separate.\nLeft to equilibration, many compositions will form a uniform single phase, but depending on the temperature and pressure even a single substance may separate into two or more distinct phases. Within each phase, the properties are uniform but between the two phases properties differ.\n\nWater in a closed jar with an air space over it forms a two phase system. Most of the water is in the liquid phase, where it is held by the mutual attraction of water molecules. Even at equilibrium molecules are constantly in motion and, once in a while, a molecule in the liquid phase gains enough kinetic energy to break away from the liquid phase and enter the gas phase. Likewise, every once in a while a vapor molecule collides with the liquid surface and condenses into the liquid. At equilibrium, evaporation and condensation processes exactly balance and there is no net change in the volume of either phase.\n\nAt room temperature and pressure, the water jar reaches equilibrium when the air over the water has a humidity of about 3%. This percentage increases as the temperature goes up. At 100 °C and atmospheric pressure, equilibrium is not reached until the air is 100% water. If the liquid is heated a little over 100 °C, the transition from liquid to gas will occur not only at the surface, but throughout the liquid volume: the water boils.\n\nFor a given composition, only certain phases are possible at a given temperature and pressure. The number and type of phases that will form is hard to predict and is usually determined by experiment. The results of such experiments can be plotted in phase diagrams.\n\nThe phase diagram shown here is for a single component system. In this simple system, which phases that are possible depends only on pressure and temperature. The markings show points where two or more phases can co-exist in equilibrium. At temperatures and pressures away from the markings, there will be only one phase at equilibrium.\n\nIn the diagram, the blue line marking the boundary between liquid and gas does not continue indefinitely, but terminates at a point called the critical point. As the temperature and pressure approach the critical point, the properties of the liquid and gas become progressively more similar. At the critical point, the liquid and gas become indistinguishable. Above the critical point, there are no longer separate liquid and gas phases: there is only a generic fluid phase referred to as a supercritical fluid. In water, the critical point occurs at around 647 K (374 °C or 705 °F) and 22.064 MPa.\n\nAn unusual feature of the water phase diagram is that the solid–liquid phase line (illustrated by the dotted green line) has a negative slope. For most substances, the slope is positive as exemplified by the dark green line. This unusual feature of water is related to ice having a lower density than liquid water. Increasing the pressure drives the water into the higher density phase, which causes melting.\n\nAnother interesting though not unusual feature of the phase diagram is the point where the solid–liquid phase line meets the liquid–gas phase line. The intersection is referred to as the triple point. At the triple point, all three phases can coexist.\n\nExperimentally, the phase lines are relatively easy to map due to the interdependence of temperature and pressure that develops when multiple phases forms. See Gibbs' phase rule. Consider a test apparatus consisting of a closed and well insulated cylinder equipped with a piston. By charging the right amount of water and applying heat, the system can be brought to any point in the gas region of the phase diagram. If the piston is slowly lowered, the system will trace a curve of increasing temperature and pressure within the gas region of the phase diagram. At the point where gas begins to condense to liquid, the direction of the temperature and pressure curve will abruptly change to trace along the phase line until all of the water has condensed.\n\nBetween two phases in equilibrium there is a narrow region where the properties are not that of either phase. Although this region may be very thin, it can have significant and easily observable effects, such as causing a liquid to exhibit surface tension. In mixtures, some components may preferentially move toward the interface. In terms of modeling, describing, or understanding the behavior of a particular system, it may be efficacious to treat the interfacial region as a separate phase.\n\nA single material may have several distinct solid states capable of forming separate phases. Water is a well-known example of such a material. For example, water ice is ordinarily found in the hexagonal form ice I, but can also exist as the cubic ice I, the rhombohedral ice II, and many other forms. Polymorphism is the ability of a solid to exist in more than one crystal form. For pure chemical elements, polymorphism is known as allotropy. For example, diamond, graphite, and fullerenes are different allotropes of carbon.\n\nWhen a substance undergoes a phase transition (changes from one state of matter to another) it usually either takes up or releases energy. For example, when water evaporates, the increase in kinetic energy as the evaporating molecules escape the attractive forces of the liquid is reflected in a decrease in temperature. The energy required to induce the phase transition is taken from the internal thermal energy of the water, which cools the liquid to a lower temperature; hence evaporation is useful for cooling. See Enthalpy of vaporization. The reverse process, condensation, releases heat. The heat energy, or enthalpy, associated with a solid to liquid transition is the enthalpy of fusion and that associated with a solid to gas transition is the enthalpy of sublimation.\n\nWhile phases of matter are traditionally defined for systems in thermal equilibrium, work on quantum many-body localized (MBL) systems has provided a framework for defining phases out of equilibrium. MBL phases never reach thermal equilibrium, and can allow for new forms of order disallowed in equilibrium via a phenomenon known as localization protected quantum order. The transitions between different MBL phases and between MBL and thermalizing phases are novel dynamical phase transitions whose properties are active areas of research. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7934734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7934734", "title": "Photometric redshift", "text": "Photometric redshift\n\nA photometric redshift is an estimate for the recession velocity of an astronomical object, such as a galaxy or quasar, without measuring its spectrum. The technique uses photometry (that is, the brightness of the object viewed through various standard filters, each of which lets through a relatively broad passband of colours, such as red light, green light, or blue light) to determine the redshift, and hence, through Hubble's law, the distance, of the observed object. The technique relies upon the spectrum of radiation being emitted by the object having strong features that can be detected by the relatively crude filters.\n\nThe technique was developed in the 1960s, but was largely replaced in the 1970s and 1980s by spectroscopic redshifts, using spectroscopy to observe the frequency (or wavelength) of characteristic spectral lines, and measure the shift of these lines from their laboratory positions. The photometric redshift technique has come back into mainstream use since 2000, as a result of large sky surveys conducted in the late 1990s and 2000s which have detected a large number of faint high-redshift objects, and telescope time limitations mean that only a small fraction of these can be observed by spectroscopy. \n\nPhotometric redshifts were originally determined by calculating the expected observed data from a known emission spectrum at a range of redshifts. In recent years, Bayesian statistical methods and artificial neural networks have been used to estimate redshifts from photometric data.\n\nAs photometric filters are sensitive to a range of wavelengths, and the technique relies on making many assumptions about the nature of the spectrum at the light-source, errors for these sorts of measurements can range up to δ\"z\" = 0.5, and are much less reliable than spectroscopic determinations. In the absence of sufficient telescope time to determine a spectroscopic redshift for each object, the technique of photometric redshifts provides a method to determine an at least qualitative characterization of a redshift.\n\nFor example, if a Sun-like spectrum had a redshift of \"z\" = 1, it would be brightest in the infrared rather than at the yellow-green color associated with the peak of its blackbody spectrum, and the light intensity will be reduced in the filter by a factor of two (i.e. 1+\"z\") (see K correction for more details on the photometric consequences of redshift).\n\n"}
{"id": "57863371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57863371", "title": "Pit Bull: The Battle over an American Icon", "text": "Pit Bull: The Battle over an American Icon\n\nPit Bull: The Battle over an American Icon is a book about the history of Pitbulls in the United States.\n\nBrowney Dickey spent seven years researching with dog experts and dog bite victims for the book. For Dickey's efforts she received death threats at book signings by anti pitbull advocates.\n\nThe book received a mostly positive reception from critics.\n\nThis is a very good book… Ms. Dickey has earned her reputation as a first-rate reporter.” —The Wall Street Journal.\n\n\"Terrific... [Dickey] does more than simply dispel the many myths around pit bulls; she strives to explore what those myths can tell us about ourselves. This beautifully written, heartbreaking book is not just for dog lovers — it's for anyone interested in race, class, history and the complexity of media narratives.\" —NPR\nMs. Dickey not only writes about the ebb and flow of public fear and loathing, she takes the reader on a thoroughly comprehensible tour of genetics and behavioral science to explain why breeding never guarantees an individual dog’s personality, and shouldn’t be used to condemn it... Picking out one breed to blame is neither warranted nor effective, and a reader of her book will be hard put to disagree.\" —The New York Times\n“Brilliant… A powerful and disturbing book that shows how the rise of the killer-pit bull narrative reflects many broader American anxieties and pathologies surrounding race, class, and poverty… A remarkable study of our capacities for cruelty and compassion toward dogs and other humans, and an eloquent argument for abandoning the fears and prejudices that have made pit bulls in particular the victims of mistreatment.” —Christian Science Monitor\nAnti pitbull advocates accused Bronwen Dickey of downplaying the potential danger of pitbull dogs.\n"}
{"id": "1506332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1506332", "title": "Royal Museum for Central Africa", "text": "Royal Museum for Central Africa\n\nThe Royal Museum for Central Africa or RMCA ( or KMMA; or MRAC), colloquially known as the Africa Museum, is an ethnography and natural history museum situated in Tervuren in Flemish Brabant, Belgium, just outside Brussels. It was first built to showcase King Leopold II's Congo Free State in the 1897 World Exhibition.\n\nThe museum focuses on the Congo, a former Belgian colony. The sphere of interest however (especially in biological research) extends to the whole Congo River basin, Middle Africa, East Africa and West Africa, attempting to integrate \"Africa\" as a whole. Intended originally as a colonial museum, from 1960 onwards it has more focused on ethnography and anthropology. Like most museums, it houses a research department in addition to its public exhibit department.\n\nNot all research pertains to Africa (e.g. research on the archaeozoology of Sagalassos, Turkey). Some researchers have strong ties with the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences.\n\nAs of November 2013, the museum is closed for renovation work (including the construction of new exhibition space) which is expected to last until December 2018 when the museum will reopen.\n\nAfter his Congo Free State was recognized by the Berlin Conference of 1884–1885, King Leopold II wanted to publicise the civilizing mission and the economic opportunities available in the colony to a wider public, both in Belgium and internationally. After considering other places, the king decided to have a temporary exhibition in his royal estate at Tervuren. When the 1897 International Exposition was held in Brussels, a colonial section was built in Tervuren, connected to the city centre by the monumental Avenue de Tervueren. The Brussels-Tervuren tram line 44 was built at the same time as the original museum by King Leopold II to bring the visitors from the city centre to the colonial exhibition. The colonial section was hosted in the (Palace of the Colonies). The building was designed by the Belgian architect Albert-Philippe Aldophe and the classical gardens by French landscape architect Elie Lainé. In the main hall Georges Hobé designed a distinctive wooden \"Art Nouveau\" structure to evoke the forest, using Bilinga wood, an African tree. The exhibition displayed ethnographic objects, stuffed animals and Congolese export products (coffee, cacao and tobacco). In the park, a temporary \"Human zoo\" - a copy of an African village - was built, in which 60 Congolese people lived for the duration of the exhibition. The exposition was a huge success.\nIn 1898 the Palace of the Colonies became the Museum of the Congo (\"Musée du Congo\") and a permanent exhibition was installed. A decade later, in 1912, a small, similar museum - the (African Museum of Namur) - was opened in Namur. The Museum began to support academic research, but due to the avid collecting of the scientists, the collection soon grew too large for the museum and enlargement was needed. Tervuren became a rich suburb of Brussels. The new museum started construction in 1904 and was designed by the French architect Charles Girault in neoclassical \"palace\" architecture, reminiscent of \"Petit Palais\" in Paris, with large gardens extending into the Tervuren Forest (a part of the Sonian Forest). It was officially opened by King Albert I in 1910 and named the Museum of the Belgian Congo (\"Musée du Congo Belge\" or \"Museum van Belgisch-Kongo\"). In 1952 the adjective \"Royal\" was added. In preparation for Expo '58, in 1957 a large building was constructed to accommodate African personnel working in the exhibition: the \"Centre d'Accueil du Personnel Africain\" (CAPA). In 1960, following the independence of the Congo, the museum's name was changed to its current title: the Royal Museum for Central Africa.\n\nIn late 2013 the museum was closed to allow a major renovation of its exhibits and an extension. Its reopening is planned for December 2018. 66 million euros has been spent on the modernization by the Belgian government. The additional space created will allow contemporary art from Central Africa to be displayed alongside the original colonial exhibits.\n\nAccording to the website of the museum, the collection contains:\n\nThe herbarium collection of the Congo Museum was transferred to that of the National Botanic Garden of Belgium in 1934.\n\nThe museum stores archives documenting its own institutional history, as well as archives of private businesses, organizations, and individuals. As of 2018, online finding aids exist for archives of , musicologist Paul Collaer, geologist , Francis Dhanis, Félix Fuchs, Cyriaque Gillain, Josué Henry de la Lindi, , American Richard Mohun, Emmanuel Muller, German explorer Paul Reichard, Albert Sillye, British explorer Henry Morton Stanley, Émile Storms, Alphonse van Gèle, historian Jan Vansina, Auguste Verbeken, historian , Gustave Vervloet, and railway enterprises and .\n\nThe publicly accessible museum itself only represents 25 percent of the activities which the museum covers. The scientific departments, which represent the bulk of the museum's academic and research facilities, (together with the main collections) are housed in the Palace of the Colonies, the Stanley Pavilion and in the CAPA building.\n\nThere are 4 departments:\n\n\nThe museum also maintains a library of some 130,000 titles.\n\nThere has been controversy surrounding the Museum. It had been called a museum that \"has remained frozen in time\" as it showed how a museum looked like in the mid-twentieth century. No mention was made of the savage excesses and pillage during Belgium's colonial era. \n\n\"The Guardian\" reported in July 2002 that, after initial outrage by Belgian historians over \"King Leopold's Ghost\" by Adam Hochschild, the state-funded museum would finance an investigation into Hochschild's allegations. The resulting more modern exhibition \"The Memory of Congo\" (February–October 2005), tried to tell the story of the Congo Free State before it became a Belgian colony and a less one-sided view of the Belgian colonial era. The exhibition was praised by the international press, with French newspaper \"Le Monde\" claiming that \"the museum has done better than revisit a particularly stormy page in history...[it] has pushed the public to join it in looking into the reality of colonialism.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "359626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=359626", "title": "Second Industrial Revolution", "text": "Second Industrial Revolution\n\nThe Second Industrial Revolution, also known as the Technological Revolution, was a phase of rapid industrialization in the final third of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th. The First Industrial Revolution, which ended in the early to mid 1800s, was punctuated by a slowdown in macroinventions before the Second Industrial Revolution in 1870. Though a number of its characteristic events can be traced to earlier innovations in manufacturing, such as the establishment of a machine tool industry, the development of methods for manufacturing interchangeable parts and the invention of the Bessemer Process to produce steel, the Second Industrial Revolution is generally dated between 1870 and 1914 (the start of World War I).\n\nAdvancements in manufacturing and production technology enabled the widespread adoption of preexisting technological systems such as telegraph and railroad networks, gas and water supply, and sewage systems, which had earlier been concentrated to a few select cities. The enormous expansion of rail and telegraph lines after 1870 allowed unprecedented movement of people and ideas, which culminated in a new wave of globalization. In the same time period, new technological systems were introduced, most significantly electrical power and telephones. The Second Industrial Revolution continued into the 20th century with early factory electrification and the production line, and ended at the start of World War I.\n\nThe Second Industrial Revolution was a period of rapid industrial development, primarily in Britain, Germany and the United States, but also in France, the Low Countries, Italy and Japan. It followed on from the First Industrial Revolution that began in Britain in the late 18th century that then spread throughout Western Europe and North America. It was characterized by the build out of railroads, large-scale iron and steel production, widespread use of machinery in manufacturing, greatly increased use of steam power, widespread use of the telegraph, use of petroleum and the beginning of electrification. It also was the period during which modern organizational methods for operating large scale businesses over vast areas came into use.\n\nThe concept was introduced by Patrick Geddes, \"Cities in Evolution\" (1910), but David Landes' use of the term in a 1966 essay and in \"The Unbound Prometheus\" (1972) standardized scholarly definitions of the term, which was most intensely promoted by Alfred Chandler (1918–2007). However, some continue to express reservations about its use.\n\nLandes (2003) stresses the importance of new technologies, especially, the internal combustion engine and petroleum, new materials and substances, including alloys and chemicals, electricity and communication technologies (such as the telegraph, telephone and radio).\n\nVaclav Smil called the period 1867–1914 \"The Age of Synergy\" during which most of the great innovations were developed since the inventions and innovations were engineering and science-based.\n\nA synergy between iron and steel, railroads and coal developed at the beginning of the Second Industrial Revolution. Railroads allowed cheap transportation of materials and products, which in turn led to cheap rails to build more roads. Railroads also benefited from cheap coal for their steam locomotives. This synergy led to the laying of 75,000 miles of track in the U.S. in the 1880s, the largest amount anywhere in world history.\n\nThe hot blast technique, in which the hot flue gas from a blast furnace is used to preheat combustion air blown into a blast furnace, was invented and patented by James Beaumont Neilson in 1828 at Wilsontown Ironworks in Scotland. Hot blast was the single most important advance in fuel efficiency of the blast furnace as it greatly reduced the fuel consumption for making pig iron, and was one of the most important technologies developed during the Industrial Revolution. Falling costs for producing wrought iron coincided with the emergence of the railway in the 1830s.\n\nThe early technique of hot blast used iron for the regenerative heating medium. Iron caused problems with expansion and contraction, which stressed the iron and caused failure. Edward Alfred Cowper developed the Cowper stove in 1857. This stove used firebrick as a storage medium, solving the expansion and cracking problem. The Cowper stove was also capable of producing high heat, which resulted in very high throughput of blast furnaces. The Cowper stove is still used in today's blast furnaces.\n\nWith the greatly reduced cost of producing pig iron with coke using hot blast, demand grew dramatically and so did the size of blast furnaces.\n\nThe Bessemer process, invented by Sir Henry Bessemer, allowed the mass-production of steel, increasing the scale and speed of production of this vital material, and decreasing the labor requirements. The key principle was the removal of excess carbon and other impurities from pig iron by oxidation with air blown through the molten iron. The oxidation also raises the temperature of the iron mass and keeps it molten.\n\nThe \"acid\" Bessemer process had a serious limitation in that it required relatively scarce hematite ore which is low in phosphorus. Sidney Gilchrist Thomas developed a more sophisticated process to eliminate the phosphorus from iron. Collaborating with his cousin, Percy Gilchrist a chemist at the Blaenavon Ironworks, Wales, he patented his process in 1878; Bolckow Vaughan & Co. in Yorkshire was the first company to use his patented process. His process was especially valuable on the continent of Europe, where the proportion of phosphoric iron was much greater than in England, and both in Belgium and in Germany the name of the inventor became more widely known than in his own country. In America, although non-phosphoric iron largely predominated, an immense interest was taken in the invention.\n\nThe next great advance in steel making was the Siemens-Martin process. Sir Charles William Siemens developed his regenerative furnace in the 1850s, for which he claimed in 1857 to able to recover enough heat to save 70–80% of the fuel. The furnace operated at a high temperature by using regenerative preheating of fuel and air for combustion. Through this method, an open-hearth furnace can reach temperatures high enough to melt steel, but Siemens did not initially use it in that manner.\n\nFrench engineer Pierre-Émile Martin was the first to take out a license for the Siemens furnace and apply it to the production of steel in 1865. The Siemens-Martin process complemented rather than replaced the Bessemer process. Its main advantages were that it did not expose the steel to excessive nitrogen (which would cause the steel to become brittle), it was easier to control, and that it permitted the melting and refining of large amounts of scrap steel, lowering steel production costs and recycling an otherwise troublesome waste material. It became the leading steel making process by the early 20th century.\n\nThe availability of cheap steel allowed building larger bridges, railroads, skyscrapers, and ships. Other important steel products—also made using the open hearth process—were steel cable, steel rod and sheet steel which enabled large, high-pressure boilers and high-tensile strength steel for machinery which enabled much more powerful engines, gears and axles than were previously possible. With large amounts of steel it became possible to build much more powerful guns and carriages, tanks, armored fighting vehicles and naval ships.\n\nThe increase in steel production from the 1860s meant that railroads could finally be made from steel at a competitive cost. Being a much more durable material, steel steadily replaced iron as the standard for railway rail, and due to its greater strength, longer lengths of rails could now be rolled. Wrought iron was soft and contained flaws caused by included dross. Iron rails could also not support heavy locomotives and was damaged by hammer blow. The first to make durable rails of steel rather than wrought iron was Robert Forester Mushet at the Darkhill Ironworks, Gloucestershire in 1857.\n\nThe first of his steel rails was sent to Derby Midland railway station. They were laid at part of the station approach where the iron rails had to be renewed at least every six months, and occasionally every three. Six years later, in 1863, the rail seemed as perfect as ever, although some 700 trains had passed over it daily. This provided the basis for the accelerated construction of rail transportation throughout the world in the late nineteenth century. Steel rails lasted over ten times longer than did iron, and with the falling cost of steel, heavier weight rails were used. This allowed the use of more powerful locomotives, which could pull longer trains, and longer rail cars, all of which greatly increased the productivity of railroads. Rail became the dominant form of transport infrastructure throughout the industrialized world, producing a steady decrease in the cost of shipping seen for the rest of the century.\n\nThe theoretical and practical basis for the harnessing of electric power was laid by the scientist and experimentalist Michael Faraday. Through his research on the magnetic field around a conductor carrying a direct current, Faraday established the basis for the concept of the electromagnetic field in physics. His inventions of electromagnetic rotary devices were the foundation of the practical use of electricity in technology.\n\nIn 1881, Sir Joseph Swan, inventor of the first feasible incandescent light bulb, supplied about 1,200 Swan incandescent lamps to the Savoy Theatre in the City of Westminster, London, which was the first theatre, and the first public building in the world, to be lit entirely by electricity. Swan's lightbulb had already been used in 1879 to light Mosley Street, in Newcastle upon Tyne, the first electrical street lighting installation in the world. This set the stage for the electrification of industry and the home. The first large scale central distribution supply plant was opened at Holborn Viaduct in London in 1882 and later at Pearl Street Station in New York City.\n\nThe first modern power station in the world was built by the English electrical engineer Sebastian de Ferranti at Deptford. Built on an unprecedented scale and pioneering the use of high voltage (10,000V) alternating current, it generated 800 kilowatts and supplied central London. On its completion in 1891 it supplied high-voltage AC power that was then \"stepped down\" with transformers for consumer use on each street. Electrification allowed the final major developments in manufacturing methods of the Second Industrial Revolution, namely the assembly line and mass production.\n\nElectrification was called \"the most important engineering achievement of the 20th century\" by the National Academy of Engineering. Electric lighting in factories greatly improved working conditions, eliminating the heat and pollution caused by gas lighting, and reducing the fire hazard to the extent that the cost of electricity for lighting was often offset by the reduction in fire insurance premiums. Frank J. Sprague developed the first successful DC motor in 1886. By 1889 110 electric street railways were either using his equipment or in planning. The electric street railway became a major infrastructure before 1920. The AC (Induction motor) was developed in the 1890s and soon began to be used in the electrification of industry. Household electrification did not become common until the 1920s, and then only in cities. Fluorescent lighting was commercially introduced at the 1939 World's Fair.\n\nElectrification also allowed the inexpensive production of electro-chemicals, such as aluminium, chlorine, sodium hydroxide, and magnesium.\n\nThe use of machine tools began with the onset of the First Industrial Revolution. The increase in mechanization required more metal parts, which were usually made of cast iron or wrought iron—and hand working lacked precision and was a slow and expensive process. One of the first machine tools was John Wilkinson's boring machine, that bored a precise hole in James Watt's first steam engine in 1774. Advances in the accuracy of machine tools can be traced to Henry Maudslay and refined by Joseph Whitworth. Standardization of screw threads began with Henry Maudslay around 1800, when the modern screw-cutting lathe made interchangeable V-thread machine screws a practical commodity.\n\nIn 1841, Joseph Whitworth created a design that, through its adoption by many British railroad companies, became the world's first national machine tool standard called British Standard Whitworth. During the 1840s through 1860s, this standard was often used in the United States and Canada as well, in addition to myriad intra- and inter-company standards.\n\nThe importance of machine tools to mass production is shown by the fact that production of the Ford Model T used 32,000 machine tools, most of which were powered by electricity. Henry Ford is quoted as saying that mass production would not have been possible without electricity because it allowed placement of machine tools and other equipment in the order of the work flow.\n\nThe first paper making machine was the Fourdrinier machine, built by Sealy and Henry Fourdrinier, stationers in London. In 1800, Matthias Koops, working in London, investigated the idea of using wood to make paper, and began his printing business a year later. However, his enterprise was unsuccessful due to the prohibitive cost at the time.\n\nIt was in the 1840s, that Charles Fenerty in Nova Scotia and Friedrich Gottlob Keller in Saxony both invented a successful machine which extracted the fibres from wood (as with rags) and from it, made paper. This started a new era for paper making, and, together with the invention of the fountain pen and the mass-produced pencil of the same period, and in conjunction with the advent of the steam driven rotary printing press, wood based paper caused a major transformation of the 19th century economy and society in industrialized countries. With the introduction of cheaper paper, schoolbooks, fiction, non-fiction, and newspapers became gradually available by 1900. Cheap wood based paper also allowed keeping personal diaries or writing letters and so, by 1850, the clerk, or writer, ceased to be a high-status job. By the 1880s chemical processes for paper manufacture were in use, becoming dominant by 1900.\n\nThe petroleum industry, both production and refining, began in 1848 with the first oil works in Scotland. The chemist James Young set up a small business refining the crude oil in 1848. Young found that by slow distillation he could obtain a number of useful liquids from it, one of which he named \"paraffine oil\" because at low temperatures it congealed into a substance resembling paraffin wax. In 1850 Young built the first truly commercial oil-works and oil refinery in the world at Bathgate, using oil extracted from locally mined torbanite, shale, and bituminous coal to manufacture naphtha and lubricating oils; paraffin for fuel use and solid paraffin were not sold till 1856.\n\nCable tool drilling was developed in ancient China and was used for drilling brine wells. The salt domes also held natural gas, which some wells produced and which was used for evaporation of the brine. Chinese well drilling technology was introduced to Europe in 1828.\n\nAlthough there were many efforts in the mid-19th century to drill for oil Edwin Drake's 1859 well near Titusville, Pennsylvania, is considered the first \"modern oil well\". Drake's well touched off a major boom in oil production in the United States. Drake learned of cable tool drilling from Chinese laborers in the U. S. The first primary product was kerosene for lamps and heaters. Similar developments around Baku fed the European market.\n\nKerosene lighting was much more efficient and less expensive than vegetable oils, tallow and whale oil. Although town gas lighting was available in some cities, kerosene produced a brighter light until the invention of the gas mantle. Both were replaced by electricity for street lighting following the 1890s and for households during the 1920s. Gasoline was an unwanted byproduct of oil refining until automobiles were mass-produced after 1914, and gasoline shortages appeared during World War I. The invention of the Burton process for thermal cracking doubled the yield of gasoline, which helped alleviate the shortages.\n\nSynthetic dye was discovered by English chemist William Henry Perkin in 1856. At the time, chemistry was still in a quite primitive state; it was still a difficult proposition to determine the arrangement of the elements in compounds and chemical industry was still in its infancy. Perkin's accidental discovery was that aniline could be partly transformed into a crude mixture which when extracted with alcohol produced a substance with an intense purple colour. He scaled up production of the new \"mauveine\", and commercialized it as the world's first synthetic dye.\n\nAfter the discovery of mauveine, many new aniline dyes appeared (some discovered by Perkin himself), and factories producing them were constructed across Europe.\nTowards the end of the century, Perkin and other British companies found their research and development efforts increasingly eclipsed by the German chemical industry which became world dominant by 1914.\n\nThis era saw the birth of the modern ship as disparate technological advances came together.\n\nThe screw propeller was introduced in 1835 by Francis Pettit Smith who discovered a new way of building propellers by accident. Up to that time, propellers were literally screws, of considerable length. But during the testing of a boat propelled by one, the screw snapped off, leaving a fragment shaped much like a modern boat propeller. The boat moved faster with the broken propeller. The superiority of screw against paddles was taken up by navies. Trials with Smith's SS \"Archimedes\", the first steam driven screw, led to the famous tug-of-war competition in 1845 between the screw-driven and the paddle steamer ; the former pulling the latter backward at 2.5 knots (4.6 km/h).\n\nThe first seagoing iron steamboat was built by Horseley Ironworks and named the \"Aaron Manby\". It also used an innovative oscillating engine for power. The boat was built at Tipton using temporary bolts, disassembled for transportation to London, and reassembled on the Thames in 1822, this time using permanent rivets.\n\nOther technological developments followed, including the invention of the surface condenser, which allowed boilers to run on purified water rather than salt water, eliminating the need to stop to clean them on long sea journeys. The \"Great Western\"\n, built by engineer Isambard Kingdom Brunel, was the longest ship in the world at with a keel and was the first to prove that transatlantic steamship services were viable. The ship was constructed mainly from wood, but Brunel added bolts and iron diagonal reinforcements to maintain the keel's strength. In addition to its steam-powered paddle wheels, the ship carried four masts for sails.\n\nBrunel followed this up with the \"Great Britain\", launched in 1843 and considered the first modern ship built of metal rather than wood, powered by an engine rather than wind or oars, and driven by propeller rather than paddle wheel. Brunel's vision and engineering innovations made the building of large-scale, propeller-driven, all-metal steamships a practical reality, but the prevailing economic and industrial conditions meant that it would be several decades before transoceanic steamship travel emerged as a viable industry.\n\nHighly efficient multiple expansion steam engines began being used on ships, allowing them to carry less coal than freight. The oscillating engine was first built by Aaron Manby and Joseph Maudslay in the 1820s as a type of direct-acting engine that was designed to achieve further reductions in engine size and weight. Oscillating engines had the piston rods connected directly to the crankshaft, dispensing with the need for connecting rods. In order to achieve this aim, the engine cylinders were not immobile as in most engines, but secured in the middle by trunnions which allowed the cylinders themselves to pivot back and forth as the crankshaft rotated, hence the term \"oscillating\".\n\nIt was John Penn, engineer for the Royal Navy who perfected the oscillating engine. One of his earliest engines was the grasshopper beam engine. In 1844 he replaced the engines of the Admiralty yacht, with oscillating engines of double the power, without increasing either the weight or space occupied, an achievement which broke the naval supply dominance of Boulton & Watt and Maudslay, Son & Field. Penn also introduced the trunk engine for driving screw propellers in vessels of war. (1846) and (1848) were the first ships to be fitted with such engines and such was their efficacy that by the time of Penn's death in 1878, the engines had been fitted in 230 ships and were the first mass-produced, high-pressure and high-revolution marine engines.\n\nThe revolution in naval design led to the first modern battleships in the 1870s, evolved from the ironclad design of the 1860s. The \"Devastation\"-class turret ships were built for the British Royal Navy as the first class of ocean-going capital ship that did not carry sails, and the first whose entire main armament was mounted on top of the hull rather than inside it.\n\nThe vulcanization of rubber, by American Charles Goodyear and Englishman Thomas Hancock in the 1840s paved the way for a growing rubber industry, especially the manufacture of rubber tyres\n\nJohn Boyd Dunlop developed the first practical pneumatic tyre in 1887 in South Belfast. Willie Hume demonstrated the supremacy of Dunlop's newly invented pneumatic tyres in 1889, winning the tyre's first ever races in Ireland and then England.\n\nThe modern bicycle was designed by the English engineer Harry John Lawson in 1876, although it was John Kemp Starley who produced the first commercially successful safety bicycle a few years later. Its popularity soon grew, causing the bike boom of the 1890s.\n\nRoad networks improved greatly in the period, using the Macadam method pioneered by Scottish engineer John Loudon McAdam, and hard surfaced roads were built around the time of the bicycle craze of the 1890s. Modern tarmac was patented by British civil engineer Edgar Purnell Hooley in 1901.\n\nGerman inventor Karl Benz patented the world's first automobile in 1886. It featured wire wheels (unlike carriages' wooden ones) with a four-stroke engine of his own design between the rear wheels, with a very advanced coil ignition and evaporative cooling rather than a radiator. Power was transmitted by means of two roller chains to the rear axle. It was the first automobile entirely designed as such to generate its own power, not simply a motorized-stage coach or horse carriage.\n\nBenz began to sell the vehicle (advertising it as the Benz Patent Motorwagen) in the late summer of 1888, making it the first commercially available automobile in history.\n\nHenry Ford built his first car in 1896 and worked as a pioneer in the industry, with others who would eventually form their own companies, until the founding of Ford Motor Company in 1903. Ford and others at the company struggled with ways to scale up production in keeping with Henry Ford's vision of a car designed and manufactured on a scale so as to be affordable by the average worker. The solution that Ford Motor developed was a completely redesigned factory with machine tools and special purpose machines that were systematically positioned in the work sequence. All unnecessary human motions were eliminated by placing all work and tools within easy reach, and where practical on conveyors, forming the assembly line, the complete process being called mass production. This was the first time in history when a large, complex product consisting of 5000 parts had been produced on a scale of hundreds of thousands per year. The savings from mass production methods allowed the price of the Model T to decline from $780 in 1910 to $360 in 1916. In 1924 2 million T-Fords were produced and retailed $290 each.\n\nApplied science opened many opportunities. By the middle of the 19th century there was a scientific understanding of chemistry and a fundamental understanding of thermodynamics and by the last quarter of the century both of these sciences were near their present-day basic form. Thermodynamic principles were used in the development of physical chemistry. Understanding chemistry greatly aided the development of basic inorganic chemical manufacturing and the aniline dye industries.\n\nThe science of metallurgy was advanced through the work of Henry Clifton Sorby and others. Sorby pioneered the study of iron and steel under microscope, which paved the way for a scientific understanding of metal and the mass-production of steel. In 1863 he used etching with acid to study the microscopic structure of metals and was the first to understand that a small but precise quantity of carbon gave steel its strength. This paved the way for Henry Bessemer and Robert Forester Mushet to develop the method for mass-producing steel.\n\nOther processes were developed for purifying various elements such as chromium, molybdenum, titanium, vanadium and nickel which could be used for making alloys with special properties, especially with steel. Vanadium steel, for example, is strong and fatigue resistant, and was used in half the automotive steel. Alloy steels were used for ball bearings which were used in large scale bicycle production in the 1880s. Ball and roller bearings also began being used in machinery. Other important alloys are used in high temperatures, such as steam turbine blades, and stainless steels for corrosion resistance.\n\nThe work of Justus von Liebig and August Wilhelm von Hofmann laid the groundwork for modern industrial chemistry. Liebig is considered the \"father of the fertilizer industry\" for his discovery of nitrogen as an essential plant nutrient and went on to establish Liebig's Extract of Meat Company which produced the Oxo meat extract. Hofmann headed a school of practical chemistry in London, under the style of the Royal College of Chemistry, introduced modern conventions for molecular modeling and taught Perkin who discovered the first synthetic dye.\n\nThe science of thermodynamics was developed into its modern form by Sadi Carnot, William Rankine, Rudolf Clausius, William Thomson, James Clerk Maxwell, Ludwig Boltzmann and J. Willard Gibbs. These scientific principles were applied to a variety of industrial concerns, including improving the efficiency of boilers and steam turbines. The work of Michael Faraday and others was pivotal in laying the foundations of the modern scientific understanding of electricity.\n\nScottish scientist James Clerk Maxwell was particularly influential—his discoveries ushered in the era of modern physics. His most prominent achievement was to formulate a set of equations that described electricity, magnetism, and optics as manifestations of the same phenomenon, namely the electromagnetic field. The unification of light and electrical phenomena led to the prediction of the existence of radio waves and was the basis for the future development of radio technology by Hughes, Marconi and others.\n\nMaxwell himself developed the first durable colour photograph in 1861 and published the first scientific treatment of control theory. Control theory is the basis for process control, which is widely used in automation, particularly for process industries, and for controlling ships and airplanes. Control theory was developed to analyze the functioning of centrifugal governors on steam engines. These governors came into use in the late 18th century on wind and water mills to correctly position the gap between mill stones, and were adapted to steam engines by James Watt. Improved versions were used to stabilize automatic tracking mechanisms of telescopes and to control speed of ship propellers and rudders. However, those governors were sluggish and oscillated about the set point. James Clerk Maxwell wrote a paper mathematically analyzing the actions of governors, which marked the beginning of the formal development of control theory. The science was continually improved and evolved into an engineering discipline.\n\nJustus von Liebig was the first to understand the importance of ammonia as fertilizer, and promoted the importance of inorganic minerals to plant nutrition. In England, he attempted to implement his theories commercially through a fertilizer created by treating phosphate of lime in bone meal with sulfuric acid. Another pioneer was John Bennet Lawes who began to experiment on the effects of various manures on plants growing in pots in 1837, leading to a manure formed by treating phosphates with sulphuric acid; this was to be the first product of the nascent artificial manure industry.\n\nThe discovery of coprolites in commercial quantities in East Anglia, led Fisons and Edward Packard to develop one of the first large-scale commercial fertilizer plants at Bramford, and Snape in the 1850s. By the 1870s superphosphates produced in those factories, were being shipped around the world from the port at Ipswich.\n\nThe Birkeland–Eyde process was developed by Norwegian industrialist and scientist Kristian Birkeland along with his business partner Sam Eyde in 1903, but was soon replaced by the much more efficient Haber process,\ndeveloped by the Nobel prize-winning chemists Carl Bosch of IG Farben and Fritz Haber in Germany. The process utilized molecular nitrogen (N) and methane (CH) gas in an economically sustainable synthesis of ammonia (NH). The ammonia produced in the Haber process is the main raw material for production of nitric acid.\n\nThe steam turbine was developed by Sir Charles Parsons in 1884. His first model was connected to a dynamo that generated 7.5 kW (10 hp) of electricity. The invention of Parson's steam turbine made cheap and plentiful electricity possible and revolutionized marine transport and naval warfare. By the time of Parson's death, his turbine had been adopted for all major world power stations. Unlike earlier steam engines, the turbine produced rotary power rather than reciprocating power which required a crank and heavy flywheel. The large number of stages of the turbine allowed for high efficiency and reduced size by 90%. The turbine's first application was in shipping followed by electric generation in 1903.\n\nThe first widely used internal combustion engine was the Otto type of 1876. From the 1880s until electrification it was successful in small shops because small steam engines were inefficient and required too much operator attention. The Otto engine soon began being used to power automobiles, and remains as today's common gasoline engine.\n\nThe diesel engine was independently designed by Rudolf Diesel and Herbert Akroyd Stuart in the 1890s using thermodynamic principles with the specific intention of being highly efficient. It took several years to perfect and become popular, but found application in shipping before powering locomotives. It remains the world's most efficient prime mover.\n\nThe first commercial telegraph system was installed by Sir William Fothergill Cooke and Charles Wheatstone in May 1837 between Euston railway station and Camden Town in London.\n\nThe rapid expansion of telegraph networks took place throughout the century, with the first undersea cable being built by John Watkins Brett between France and England.\nThe Atlantic Telegraph Company was formed in London in 1856 to undertake to construct a commercial telegraph cable across the Atlantic Ocean. This was successfully completed on 18 July 1866 by the ship SS \"Great Eastern\", captained by Sir James Anderson after many mishaps along the away. From the 1850s until 1911, British submarine cable systems dominated the world system. This was set out as a formal strategic goal, which became known as the All Red Line.\n\nThe telephone was patented in 1876 by Alexander Graham Bell, and like the early telegraph, it was used mainly to speed business transactions.\n\nAs mentioned above, one of the most important scientific advancements in all of history was the unification of light, electricity and magnetism through Maxwell's electromagnetic theory. A scientific understanding of electricity was necessary for the development of efficient electric generators, motors and transformers. David Edward Hughes and Heinrich Hertz both demonstrated and confirmed the phenomenon of electromagnetic waves that had been predicted by Maxwell.\n\nIt was Italian inventor Guglielmo Marconi who successfully commercialized radio at the turn of the century. He founded The Wireless Telegraph & Signal Company in Britain in 1897 and in the same year transmitted Morse code across Salisbury Plain, sent the first ever wireless communication over open sea and made the first transatlantic transmission in 1901 from Poldhu, Cornwall to Signal Hill, Newfoundland. Marconi built high-powered stations on both sides of the Atlantic and began a commercial service to transmit nightly news summaries to subscribing ships in 1904.\n\nThe key development of the vacuum tube by Sir John Ambrose Fleming in 1904 underpinned the development of modern electronics and radio broadcasting. Lee De Forest's subsequent invention of the triode allowed the amplification of electronic signals, which paved the way for radio broadcasting in the 1920s.\n\nRailroads are credited with creating the modern business enterprise by scholars such as Alfred Chandler. Previously, the management of most businesses had consisted of individual owners or groups of partners, some of whom often had little daily hands-on operations involvement. Centralized expertise in the home office was not enough. A railroad required expertise available across the whole length of its trackage, to deal with daily crises, breakdowns and bad weather. A collision in Massachusetts in 1841 led to a call for safety reform. This led to the reorganization of railroads into different departments with clear lines of management authority. When the telegraph became available, companies built telegraph lines along the railroads to keep track of trains.\n\nRailroads involved complex operations and employed extremely large amounts of capital and ran a more complicated business compared to anything previous. Consequently, they needed better ways to track costs. For example, to calculate rates they needed to know the cost of a ton-mile of freight. They also needed to keep track of cars, which could go missing for months at a time. This led to what was called \"railroad accounting\", which was later adopted by steel and other industries, and eventually became modern accounting.\nLater in the Second Industrial Revolution, Frederick Winslow Taylor and others in America developed the concept of scientific management or Taylorism. Scientific management initially concentrated on reducing the steps taken in performing work (such as bricklaying or shoveling) by using analysis such as time-and-motion studies, but the concepts evolved into fields such as industrial engineering, manufacturing engineering, and business management that helped to completely restructure the operations of factories, and later entire segments of the economy.\n\nTaylor's core principles included:\n\n\nThe period from 1870 to 1890 saw the greatest increase in economic growth in such a short period as ever in previous history. Living standards improved significantly in the newly industrialized countries as the prices of goods fell dramatically due to the increases in productivity. This caused unemployment and great upheavals in commerce and industry, with many laborers being displaced by machines and many factories, ships and other forms of fixed capital becoming obsolete in a very short time span.\n\n\"The economic changes that have occurred during the last quarter of a century -or during the present generation of living men- have unquestionably been more important and more varied than during any period of the world's history\".\nCrop failures no longer resulted in starvation in areas connected to large markets through transport infrastructure.\n\nMassive improvements in public health and sanitation resulted from public health initiatives, such as the construction of the London sewerage system in the 1860s and the passage of laws that regulated filtered water supplies—(the Metropolis Water Act introduced regulation of the water supply companies in London, including minimum standards of water quality for the first time in 1852). This greatly reduced the infection and death rates from many diseases.\n\nBy 1870 the work done by steam engines exceeded that done by animal and human power. Horses and mules remained important in agriculture until the development of the internal combustion tractor near the end of the Second Industrial Revolution.\n\nImprovements in steam efficiency, like triple-expansion steam engines, allowed ships to carry much more freight than coal, resulting in greatly increased volumes of international trade. Higher steam engine efficiency caused the number of steam engines to increase several fold, leading to an increase in coal usage, the phenomenon being called the Jevons paradox.\n\nBy 1890 there was an international telegraph network allowing orders to be placed by merchants in England or the US to suppliers in India and China for goods to be transported in efficient new steamships. This, plus the opening of the Suez Canal, led to the decline of the great warehousing districts in London and elsewhere, and the elimination of many middlemen.\n\nThe tremendous growth in productivity, transportation networks, industrial production and agricultural output lowered the prices of almost all goods. This led to many business failures and periods that were called \"depressions\" that occurred as the world economy actually grew. See also: Long depression\n\nThe factory system centralized production in separate buildings funded and directed by specialists (as opposed to work at home). The division of labor made both unskilled and skilled labor more productive, and led to a rapid growth of population in industrial centers. The shift away from agriculture toward industry had occurred in Britain by the 1730s, when the percentage of the working population engaged in agriculture fell below 50%, a development that would only happen elsewhere (the Low Countries) in the 1830s and '40s. By 1890, the figure had fallen to under 10% percent and the vast majority of the British population was urbanized. This milestone was reached by the Low Countries and the US in the 1950s.\n\nLike the first industrial revolution, the second supported population growth and saw most governments protect their national economies with tariffs. Britain retained its belief in free trade throughout this period. The wide-ranging social impact of both revolutions included the remaking of the working class as new technologies appeared. The changes resulted in the creation of a larger, increasingly professional, middle class, the decline of child labor and the dramatic growth of a consumer-based, material culture.\n\nBy 1900, the leaders in industrial production was Britain with 24% of the world total, followed by the US (19%), Germany (13%), Russia (9%) and France (7%). Europe together accounted for 62%.\n\nThe great inventions and innovations of the Second Industrial Revolution are part of our modern life. They continued to be drivers of the economy until after WWII. Only a few major innovations occurred in the post-war era, some of which are: computers, semiconductors, the fiber optic network and the Internet, cellular telephones, combustion turbines (jet engines) and the Green Revolution. Although commercial aviation existed before WWII, it became a major industry after the war.\n\nNew products and services were introduced which greatly increased international trade. Improvements in steam engine design and the wide availability of cheap steel meant that slow, sailing ships were replaced with faster steamship, which could handle more trade with smaller crews. The chemical industries also moved to the forefront. Britain invested less in technological research than the U.S. and Germany, which caught up.\n\nThe development of more intricate and efficient machines along with mass production techniques (after 1910) greatly expanded output and lowered production costs. As a result, production often exceeded domestic demand. Among the new conditions, more markedly evident in Britain, the forerunner of Europe's industrial states, were the long-term effects of the severe Long Depression of 1873–1896, which had followed fifteen years of great economic instability. Businesses in practically every industry suffered from lengthy periods of low — and falling — profit rates and price deflation after 1873.\n\nThe U.S. had its highest economic growth rate in the last two decades of the Second Industrial Revolution; however, population growth slowed while productivity growth peaked around the mid 20th century. The Gilded Age in America was based on heavy industry such as factories, railroads and coal mining. The iconic event was the opening of the First Transcontinental Railroad in 1869, providing six-day service between the East Coast and San Francisco.\n\nDuring the Gilded Age, American railroad mileage tripled between 1860 and 1880, and tripled again by 1920, opening new areas to commercial farming, creating a truly national marketplace and inspiring a boom in coal mining and steel production. The voracious appetite for capital of the great trunk railroads facilitated the consolidation of the nation's financial market in Wall Street. By 1900, the process of economic concentration had extended into most branches of industry—a few large corporations, some organized as \"trusts\" (e.g. Standard Oil), dominated in steel, oil, sugar, meatpacking, and the manufacture of agriculture machinery. Other major components of this infrastructure were the new methods for manufacturing steel, especially the Bessemer process. The first billion-dollar corporation was United States Steel, formed by financier J. P. Morgan in 1901, who purchased and consolidated steel firms built by Andrew Carnegie and others.\n\nIncreased mechanization of industry and improvements to worker efficiency, increased the productivity of factories while undercutting the need for skilled labor. Mechanical innovations such as batch and continuous processing began to become much more prominent in factories. This mechanization made some factories an assemblage of unskilled laborers performing simple and repetitive tasks under the direction of skilled foremen and engineers. In some cases, the advancement of such mechanization substituted for low-skilled workers altogether. Both the number of unskilled and skilled workers increased, as their wage rates grew Engineering colleges were established to feed the enormous demand for expertise. Together with rapid growth of small business, a new middle class was rapidly growing, especially in northern cities.\n\nIn the early 1900s there was a disparity between the levels of employment seen in the northern and southern United States. On average, states in the North had both a higher population, and a higher rate of employment than states in the South. The higher rate of employment is easily seen by considering the 1909 rates of employment compared to the populations of each state in the 1910 census. This difference was most notable in the states with the largest populations, such as New York and Pennsylvania. Each of these states had roughly 5 percent more of the total US workforce than would be expected given their populations. Conversely, the states in the South with the best actual rates of employment, North Carolina and Georgia, had roughly 2 percent less of the workforce than one would expect from their population. When the averages of all southern states and all northern states are taken, the trend holds with the North over-performing by about 2 percent, and the South under-performing by about 1 percent.\n\nThe German Empire came to rival Britain as Europe's primary industrial nation during this period. Since Germany industrialized later, it was able to model its factories after those of Britain, thus making more efficient use of its capital and avoiding legacy methods in its leap to the envelope of technology. Germany invested more heavily than the British in research, especially in chemistry, motors and electricity. The German concern system (known as \"Konzerne\"), being significantly concentrated, was able to make more efficient use of capital. Germany was not weighted down with an expensive worldwide empire that needed defense. Following Germany's annexation of Alsace-Lorraine in 1871, it absorbed parts of what had been France's industrial base.\n\nBy 1900 the German chemical industry dominated the world market for synthetic dyes. The three major firms BASF, Bayer and Hoechst produced several hundred different dyes, along with the five smaller firms. In 1913 these eight firms produced almost 90 percent of the world supply of dyestuffs, and sold about 80 percent of their production abroad. The three major firms had also integrated upstream into the production of essential raw materials and they began to expand into other areas of chemistry such as pharmaceuticals, photographic film, agricultural chemicals and electrochemical. Top-level decision-making was in the hands of professional salaried managers, leading Chandler to call the German dye companies \"the world's first truly managerial industrial enterprises\". There were many spin offs from research—such as the pharmaceutical industry, which emerged from chemical research.\n\nBelgium during the Belle Époque showed the value of the railways for speeding the Second Industrial Revolution. After 1830, when it broke away from the Netherlands and became a new nation, it decided to stimulate industry. It planned and funded a simple cruciform system that connected major cities, ports and mining areas, and linked to neighboring countries. Belgium thus became the railway center of the region. The system was soundly built along British lines, so that profits were low but the infrastructure necessary for rapid industrial growth was put in place.\n\nThere have been other times that have been called \"second industrial revolution\". Industrial revolutions may be renumbered by taking earlier developments, such as the rise of medieval technology in the 12th century, or of ancient Chinese technology during the Tang Dynasty, or of ancient Roman technology, as first. \"Second industrial revolution\" has been used in the popular press and by technologists or industrialists to refer to the changes following the spread of new technology after World War I.\n\nExcitement and debate over the dangers and benefits of the Atomic Age were more intense and lasting than those over the Space age but both were predicted to lead to another industrial revolution. At the start of the 21st century the term \"second industrial revolution\" has been used to describe the anticipated effects of hypothetical molecular nanotechnology systems upon society. In this more recent scenario, they would render the majority of today's modern manufacturing processes obsolete, transforming all facets of the modern economy.\n\n"}
{"id": "3025949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3025949", "title": "Sinemurian", "text": "Sinemurian\n\nIn the geologic timescale, the Sinemurian is an age and stage in the Early or Lower Jurassic epoch or series. It spans the time between 199.3 ± 2 Ma and 190.8 ± 1.5 Ma (million years ago). The Sinemurian is preceded by the Hettangian and is followed by the Pliensbachian.\n\nIn Europe the Sinemurian age, together with the Hettangian age, saw the deposition of the lower Lias, in Great Britain known as the Blue Lias.\n\nThe Sinemurian stage was defined and introduced into scientific literature by French palaeontologist Alcide d'Orbigny in 1842. It takes its name from the French town of Semur-en-Auxois, near Dijon. The calcareous soil formed from the Jurassic limestone of the region is in part responsible for the character of the classic Sancerre wines.\nThe base of the Sinemurian stage is at the first appearance of the ammonite genera \"Vermiceras\" and \"Metophioceras\" in the stratigraphic record. A global reference profile (GSSP or golden spike) for the Sinemurian stage is located in a cliff north of the hamlet of East Quantoxhead, 6 kilometres east of Watchet, Somerset, England.\n\nThe top of the Sinemurian (the base of the Pliensbachian) is at the first appearances of the ammonite species \"Bifericeras donovani\" and ammonite genus \"Apoderoceras\".\n\nThe Sinemurian contains six ammonite biozones in the Tethys domain:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33888742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33888742", "title": "Singing Stones of Brittany", "text": "Singing Stones of Brittany\n\nThe \"Pierre Sonnantes\" or Singing Stones of Brittany are located on the left bank of the river Arguenon opposite the ruined castle of Gilles de Bretagne at Notre-Dame-le-Guildo, near Dinard in the Côtes-d'Armor, France.\n\nThe stones are round and smooth, shiny black and extremely large, weighing in excess of ten tonnes each and are made of a heavy metallic stone that rings like a bell if struck by another smaller piece of the same stone. There are hundreds of tonnes of them and there is no indication of where they came from or how they got there. They are accepted as basalt rocks, but this type of rock is usually associated with volcanic eruptions and there is no evidence or history of volcanic activity there.\n\nThe stones are unlike any of the surrounding stones either on the ground or on the cliff face overlooking them; legend has it that these stones were spewed up by the giant Gargantua.\n\n, elevation 9 metres.\n\nThis site is clearly seen on Google Earth at the above co-ordinates. The road leading to them is called 'Rue des Pierres Sonnantes'.\n\n"}
{"id": "1721470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1721470", "title": "Sustainable urban infrastructure", "text": "Sustainable urban infrastructure\n\nSustainable urban infrastructure expands on the concept of urban infrastructure by adding the sustainability element with the expectation of improved and more sustained urban development. In the construction and physical and organizational structures that enable cities to function, there is the aim of meeting the needs of the present generation without compromising the capabilities of the future generations.\n\nAccording to the College of Engineering and Applied Science of the University of Colorado Denver, urban infrastructure refers to the engineered systems (water, energy, transport, sanitation, information) that make up a city. However, challenges resulting from increasing population growth generated a need for sustainable infrastructure that is high performing, cost-effective, resource-efficient and environmentally-friendly.\n\nThe United States Environmental Protection Agency maintains that the planning process of sustainable design can lead to the development of a community that is ecologically, economically, and socially sustainable. The design emphasis for a sustainable urban infrastructure is on localization and sustainable living. The aim is to reduce individual's ecological footprint according to the principles of sustainable development in areas with a high population density.\n\nThe criteria for what can be included in this kind of urban environment varies from place to place, given differences in existing infrastructure and built form, climate and availability of local resources or talents.\n\nGenerally speaking the following could be considered sustainable urban infrastructure:\n\nSustainable urban infrastructure is also called sustainable municipal infrastructure in Canada. It is an infrastructure initiative that facilitates a place or regions progress towards the goal of sustainable living. Attention is paid to technological and government policies which enable urban planning for sustainable architecture and sustainable agriculture.\n\nSeveral organizations in Canada related to the FCM InfraGuide project, including the Federation of Canadian Municipalities, Infrastructure Canada, National Research Council of Canada, and Canadian Public Works Association, seek to achieve sustainability in municipal infrastructure especially large scale urban infrastructure, they advocate environmental protocols and inclusion of ecological and social indicators and factors in decision making at the earliest possible stage. There is little focus yet on sustainable rural infrastructure though this is a stated goal of the project, as is spreading it to achieve rural development in developing nations.\n\nIn their view, sustainability concerns apply to all of \"maintaining, repairing and upgrading the infrastructure that sustains our quality of life\" including at least:\n\nThese and other Canadian official entities including the Auditor General of Canada and Service Canada are focused on related efforts such as municipal performance audits, information technology and communications technology, moral purchasing and sharing of \"data, information, common infrastructure, technology\" and the need to \"integrate their business processes\" to further reduce duplication and waste, especially e-waste and greenhouse gas emissions \"a concern under Kyoto Protocol targets that Canada has committed to achieve.\" In 2011, Canada withdrew from the Kyoto Protocol due to economic concerns.\n\nCommunities of Tomorrow is a non-profit enterprise in Saskatchewan, Canada that fosters the development and commercialization of innovative sustainable infrastructure solutions for the global marketplace. Sustainable infrastructure is the development of water, sewer, roads, and other infrastructure systems that meet the needs of current and future generations in a socially, economically and environmentally sustainable manner. Communities of Tomorrow brings industry firms together with researchers to collaboratively develop new infrastructure solutions to existing or future problems with the ultimate goal to commercialize them. It’s about building greener and longer lasting infrastructure, such as roads and water systems, to offer the global marketplace.\n\nThe Swiss Global Infrastructure Basel Foundation (GIB) supports various stakeholders, such as governments, banks and cities, in the designing, implementing and financing sustainable urban infrastructure projects at all stages of the project cycle. Currently, GIB has developed, in cooperation with the French bank Natixis, the SuRe® Standard – The Standard for Sustainable and Resilient Infrastructure, which is a global voluntary ISEAL standard. GIB has also developed the SuRe® SmartScan, a simplified version of the SuRe® Standard that serves as a self-assessment tool for sustainable infrastructure projects. It provides project developers with a comprehensive analysis of the various themes covered by the SuRe® Standard, offering a solid foundation for green infrastructure projects that are planning to become certified by the SuRe® Standard.\n\nRoadside and urban infrastructures such as signposts, bollards and street furniture are prone to damage and deterioration. As infrastructure deteriorates, it requires either replacement or enhancement. Existing public funding sources are inadequate to meet the need. Self-healing technology could protect surrounding paving and foundations from damage when items of infrastructure are impacted, which can reduce maintenance and improve the sustainability of urban developments. Self-healing developments result in zero-waste and zero-landfill from maintenance on items of urban infrastructure for the life of the development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31723409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31723409", "title": "The Slater Field Guide to Australian Birds", "text": "The Slater Field Guide to Australian Birds\n\nThe Slater Field Guide to Australian Birds is one of the main national bird field guides used by Australian birders.\n\nThe guide was first published in 1986 in Sydney by Rigby Publishers and authored by Peter Slater and other members of his family. It is 215 mm high by 113 mm wide and weighs 440 g. The imprint page asserts copyright of the paintings for Peter Slater, of the text for Pat Slater, and of the maps for Raoul Slater.\n\nIn 1970-74 Slater had produced a two-volume guide to Australian birds which was the first of the new generation of Australian field guides to appear after the Second World War. It was shortly followed by guides authored by Graham Pizzey in 1980 and by Ken Simpson and Nicolas Day in 1984. Slater's second guide continued the evolutionary succession only two years later. In a review in the ornithological journal \"Emu\" Ian Taylor said:\n”Peter Slater, in conjunction with his wife Pat and their son Raoul, has produced a one volume field guide for the whole of Australia which looks like being serious competition for Graham Pizzey's popular field guide. The great strengths of this book lie in its size and its format. For the first time, here is a field guide which can actually be used in the field. Unlike earlier multi-volume or large format guides, Slater will fit in a trouser or jacket pocket. Gone are the days of carrying guides in day packs or rushing back to the car to confirm an identification. What is remarkable is that it has taken so long for a pocket sized field guide to appear. Our northern hemisphere counterparts have had them for years. The other great strength is the format. At last we have a field guide with the text and distribution maps opposite the illustrations.”\n\nA second updated and reorganised 360-page edition was issued by New Holland Publishers in 2009. It has 64 new or revised colour plates, incorporating all the new birds recorded in Australia since 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "3654207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3654207", "title": "Traditional Chinese star names", "text": "Traditional Chinese star names\n\nTraditional Chinese star names (Chinese: , \"xīng míng\") are the names of stars used in ancient Chinese astronomy and astrology.\n\nMost of these names are enumerations within the respective Chinese constellations, but a few stars have traditional proper names.\n"}
{"id": "13497143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13497143", "title": "Tropical Atlantic", "text": "Tropical Atlantic\n\nThe Tropical Atlantic realm is one of twelve marine realms that cover the world's coastal seas and continental shelves. \n\nThe Tropical Atlantic covers both sides of the Atlantic. In the western Atlantic, it extends from Bermuda, southern Florida, and the southern Gulf of Mexico through the Caribbean and along South America's Atlantic coast to Cape Frio in Brazil's Rio de Janeiro state. In the Eastern Atlantic, it extends along the African coast from Cape Blanco in Mauritania to the Tigres Peninsula on the coast of Angola. It also includes the seas around St. Helena and Ascension islands.\n\nThe Tropical Atlantic is bounded on the north and south by temperate ocean realms. The Temperate Northern Atlantic realm lies to the north on both the North American and African-European shores of the Atlantic. To the south, the ocean realms conform to the continental margins, not the ocean basins; the Temperate South America realm lies to the south along the South American coast, and the Temperate Southern Africa realm lies to the south along the African coast.\n\nThe Tropical Atlantic realm is divided into six marine provinces, which are in turn divided into 25 marine ecoregions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5745525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5745525", "title": "Uludağ", "text": "Uludağ\n\nUludağ (), the ancient Mysian Olympus (also Bithynian Olympus), is a mountain in Bursa Province, Turkey, with an elevation of . \n\nIn Turkish, \"Uludağ\" means \"great mountain\". In ancient times the range of which it is a part, extending along the southern edge of Bithynia, was known as Olympos in Greek and Olympus in Latin, the western extremity being known as the Mysian Olympus and the eastern as the Bithynian Olympus, and the city of Bursa was known as Prusa ad Olympum from its position near the mountain. Throughout the Middle Ages, it contained hermitages and monasteries: \"The rise of this monastic centre in the 8th c. and its prestige up to the 11th are linked to the resistance of numerous monks to the policy of the iconoclast emperors and then to a latent opposition to the urban, Constantinopolitan monasticism of the Studites.\" One of the greatest monks of the Christian East, the wonder-working Byzantine monk Saint Joannicius the Great, lived as a hermit on this mountain.\n\nMt. Uludağ is the highest mountain of the Marmara region. Its highest peak is Kartaltepe at . To the north are high plateaus: Sarıalan, Kirazlıyayla, Kadıyayla, and Sobra.\n\nThere is an abandoned wolfram mine near the summit. The mine and the integrated plant, which were built in 1974 for US$60 million, were closed in 1989 due to high production costs.\nThe area is a popular center for winter sports such as skiing, and a national park of rich flora and fauna. Summer activities, such as trekking and camping, also are popular.\n\nThe highest area in western Anatolia, Uludağ is easily ascended by car or cable-car. The park is about south of Bursa and is signposted from there. Bursa can be reached by road from Istanbul. The cable-car ascends from Bursa and has an intermediate stop in the alpine meadows of Kadiyayla at about elevation. It ends at Sarialan at about .\nHabitats of the park range from maquis on the lower slopes, through deciduous woodland and beech and fir forest to alpine meadows at the highest levels. It is a refuge for mountain birds, such as lammergeier and other vultures, golden eagle and more than 20 other raptor species. Other high-altitude species include alpine accentor, rock thrushes and choughs. The area is also good for eastern specialities such as isabelline wheatear, and, at almost the most westerly points of their range, red-fronted serin and Krüper's nuthatch. The dense fir forest holds short-toed treecreeper, common crossbill and Tengmalm's owl, a rare and very local bird in Turkey, as well as the white-backed woodpecker. \nThe rare and local butterfly, \"Parnassius apollo graslini\", is found on Uludag and the area has much of interest to botanists, with colourful pink primroses (\"Primula vulgaris\" var. \"sibthorpii\"), leopard's bane (\"Doronicum orientale\"), crocuses: the purple \"Crocus siberi\" and yellow \"Crocus flavus\", and grape hyacinths (\"Muscari racemosum\"). There are also few wolf packs roaming on the mountain.\n\n\n"}
