{"id": "31622656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31622656", "title": "6th Jebtsundamba Khutughtu", "text": "6th Jebtsundamba Khutughtu\n\nThe 6th Jebtsundamba Khutughtu (1842–1848), was the sixth incarnation of the Jebtsundamba Khutuktu, the spiritual heads of the Gelug lineage of Tibetan Buddhism in Mongolia, and the fourth of Tibetan descent. He was the second Jebtsundamba Khutuktu selected by the lottery procedure of the Golden urn. His personal name was \"Luvsantüvdenchoyjijaltsan\" and his Tibetan ceremonial name \"Blo-bzang-dpal-ldan-bstan-pa\".\n\nThe son of local donkey herders from Tibet, he was found and determined by monks after the death of the previous (fifth) Jebtsundamba Khutughtu to be the sixth incarnation. After his selection at the age of five he was sent to Urga, present-day Ulaanbaatar. He died there of smallpox after only 59 days. His remains were kept in Urga at the Dambadarjaa monastery.\n\nNews of his death was first sent to the Chinese emperor Daoguang who then forwarded the message to Lhasa along with the assignment to select a new reincarnation. Until 1793 this message was given directly to the Dalai Lama; who was at that time the amban in Tibet.\n\nAfter several months, a Mongolian delegation departed Urga for Lhasa to attend the selection process. After the final choice for the new Jebtsundamba Khutuktu was made, a part of the delegation returned to Urga to announce the news. Then, another large delegation from Urga was sent to Tibet to supervise the new incarnation on his inaugural journey from Tibet to Mongolia.\n"}
{"id": "36730920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36730920", "title": "Al-Adl cemetery", "text": "Al-Adl cemetery\n\nThe al-Adl cemetery () is one of the earliest and largest resting places in Mecca. It is also the second largest cemetery in the city.\n\nThe graveyard was opened in 1926 and its size is around 50,000 square meters. The cemetery is on Majed Street in Mecca. It is near Masjid Al Haram that is located at northeast. The cemetery is also near Makkah governorate headquarters that is at east side.\n\nMany eminent Saudi royals were interred in the Al Adl cemetery, including Prince Nayef, Prince Mansour, Prince Mishari, Prince Majid, Prince Fawwaz, Prince Sattam and Prince Abdullah Al Faisal Al Saud. Prince Fahd bin Saud also buried in the cemetery. Abd al-Aziz ibn Abd Allah ibn Baaz, Prince Saud bin Faisal Al Saud and Muhammad bin Saleh Al Othaimeen were also buried in the graveyard. Additionally, the cemetery has been used as a resting place for former imams of Masjid Al Haram.\n"}
{"id": "38895632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38895632", "title": "All Manipur Buddhist Association", "text": "All Manipur Buddhist Association\n\nAll Manipur Buddhist Association (AMBA) is a Buddhist organisation in Manipur, India. It was founded on the full moon day of the month of Meraa (October) 1972, and it got registered under section 20 of the Societies Registration Act XXI of 1860 in 1982. The first Vishakha Puja (Buddha Purnima) was performed in 1984 at Phayjaa Laytong in Imphal East with Ven. Akshyananda of Tripura as the presiding monk.\n\nFor the first time in Manipur, a Buddhist monastery was established at Moreh, a town in Manipur bordering Myanmar with the help of Ven. Akshyananda sometime in 1984-85, and the present pagoda there was erected with the generous donation of Dr. Dey and his family in 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "838378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=838378", "title": "Astral plane", "text": "Astral plane\n\nThe astral plane, also called the astral world, is a plane of existence postulated by classical (particularly neo-Platonic), medieval, oriental, and esoteric philosophies and mystery religions. It is the world of the celestial spheres, crossed by the soul in its astral body on the way to being born and after death, and is generally believed to be populated by angels, spirits or other immaterial beings. In the late 19th and early 20th century the term was popularised by Theosophy and neo-Rosicrucianism.\n\nAnother view holds that the astral plane or world, rather than being some kind of boundary area crossed by the soul, is the entirety of spirit existence or spirit worlds to which those who die on Earth go, and where they live out their non-physical lives. Some writers conflate this realm with heaven or paradise or union with God itself, and others do not. P. Yogananda wrote in Autobiography of a Yogi, \"The astral universe . . . is hundreds of times larger than the material universe . . .[with] many astral planets, teeming with astral beings.\" (p.416) When Alice Bailey writes of seeing \"Masters . . . upon the inner spiritual planes [who]. . . work with Christ and the planetary hierarchy,\" she refers to a vision she had of the unseen astral realm that these and countless other beings inhabit. Christ being in that realm, it is hard to construe it as a non-heaven. \n\nThe \"Barzakh\", \"olam mithal\" or intermediate world in Islam is a related concept. In Judaism, it is known as the \"World of \"Yetzirah\"\", according to Lurianic Kabbalah. \n\nPlato and Aristotle taught that the stars were composed of a type of matter different from the four earthly elements - a fifth, ethereal element or quintessence. In the \"astral mysticism\" of the classical world the human psyche was composed of the same material, thus accounting for the influence of the stars upon human affairs. In his commentaries on Plato's Timaeus, Proclus wrote;\n\nMan is a little world (mikros cosmos). For, just like the Whole, he possesses both mind and reason, both a divine and a mortal body. He is also divided up according to the universe. It is for this reason, you know, that some are accustomed to say that his consciousness corresponds with the nature of the fixed stars, his reason in its contemplative aspect with Saturn and in its social aspect with Jupiter, (and) as to his irrational part, the passionate nature with Mars, the eloquent with Mercury, the appetitive with Venus, the sensitive with the Sun and the vegetative with the Moon.\n\nSuch doctrines were commonplace in mystery-schools and Hermetic and gnostic sects throughout the Roman Empire and influenced the early Christian church. Paul's Second Epistle to the Corinthians contains a reference to the astral plane or astral projection: \"I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven. Whether it was in the body or out of the body I do not know—God knows.\"\n\nAmong Muslims the \"astral\" world-view was soon rendered orthodox by Quranic references to the Prophet's ascent through the seven heavens. Scholars took up the Greek Neoplatonist accounts as well as similar material in Hindu and Zoroastrian texts. The expositions of Ibn Sina (Avicenna), the Brotherhood of Purity and others, when translated into Latin in the Norman era, were to have a profound effect upon European mediaeval alchemy and astrology. By the 14th century Dante was describing his own imaginary journey through the astral spheres of Paradise.\n\nThroughout the Renaissance, philosophers, Paracelsians, Rosicrucians and alchemists continued to discuss the nature of the astral world intermediate between earth and the divine. Once the telescope established that no spiritual heaven was visible around the solar system, the idea was superseded in mainstream science.\n\nAccording to occult teachings the astral plane can be visited consciously through astral projection, meditation and mantra, near death experience, lucid dreaming, or other means. Individuals that are trained in the use of the astral vehicle can separate their consciousness in the astral vehicle from the physical body at will.\n\nIn early theosophical literature the term \"astral\" may refer to the aether. Later theosophical authors such as Annie Besant and C. W. Leadbeater make the astral finer than the etheric plane but \"denser\" than the mental plane. In order to create a unified view of seven bodies and remove earlier Sanskrit terms, an etheric plane was introduced and the term \"astral body\" was used to replace the former kamarupa - sometimes termed the \"body of emotion, illusion or desire\". Some of those propounding such claims explain their belief that letting go of desires is spiritual progress by noting that, the more one let's go of feelings, the less tied down to the physical world, a world of illusion, and the more connected to the astral, where all is visible and known.\n\nAccording to Max Heindel's Rosicrucian writings, \"desire-stuff\" may be described as a type of force-matter, in incessant motion, responsive to the slightest \"feeling\". The desire world is also said to be the abode of the dead for some time subsequent to death. It is also the home of the archangels. In the higher regions of the desire world thoughts take a definite form and color perceptible to all, all is light and there is but one long day.\n\nIn his book \"Autobiography of a Yogi\", Paramhansa Yogananda provides details about the astral planes learned from his guru. Yogananda claims that nearly all individuals enter the astral planes after death. There they work out the seeds of past karma through astral incarnations, or (if their karma requires) they return to earthly incarnations for further refinement. Once an individual has attained the meditative state of nirvikalpa samadhi in an earthy or astral incarnation, the soul may progress upward to the \"illumined astral planet\" of Hiranyaloka. After this transitional stage, the soul may then move upward to the more subtle causal spheres where many more incarnations allow them to further refine before final unification.\n\nMarilynn Hughes' experiences seem to coincide with that described by Paramahamsa Yogananda. Hughes states that the astral plane consists of the third and fourth dimension which are mortal realms overlapping the physical worlds, wherein much of what is experienced in this world is mirrored therein. It is through these astral planes that souls undergo scrutiny of their karma's and are able to purify therefrom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17370204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17370204", "title": "Bell Street Chapel", "text": "Bell Street Chapel\n\nBell Street Chapel is an historic Unitarian Universalist chapel church located at 5 Bell Street in Providence, Rhode Island. This is just off Broadway in the part of the city referred to as \"Federal Hill.\" The church is a member congregation of the Unitarian Universalist Association (UUA).\n\nThe chapel was built in 1875 by architect William Russell Walker at the behest of James Eddy. Eddy was a wealthy engraver and art dealer who advocated a theology that was unusual for its time. He had a private chapel built on the land adjacent to his property, hoping that he might be able to find some people who agreed with his theology.\n\nThe chapel sat largely unused until Eddy's death in 1888. His will created an endowment aimed at keeping the chapel in use well into the future. That endowment is still active today. Anna Garlin Spencer, a Providence philanthropist and philosopher, was asked to spearhead the creation of a new congregation using the chapel. She remained there ten years and was ordained by the congregation as the first female minister of any denomination in the State of Rhode Island.\n\nAt the present time, Rev. Margaret Weis serves as developmental minister. Services begin every Sunday morning at 10:00.\n\nBell Street Chapel was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1973.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18259632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18259632", "title": "Black Dianetics", "text": "Black Dianetics\n\nBlack Dianetics is a form of Dianetics, as discussed by its creator, L. Ron Hubbard.\n\nHubbard claimed that Dianetics is a method of achieving set goals using one's mind. According to the Church of Scientology, Dianetics can be used to change and improve one's life. Claims from Scientologists support the idea that Dianetics is a positive concept that can be used to improve an individual's life. However, Hubbard also referred to something he called \"Black Dianetics\", for which the goals may be mean-spirited, cruel, or exploitative. That is, Black Dianetics employs the methods of Hubbard's ideas for selfish, vindictive, and destructive reasons.\n\nHubbard warns against the use of Black Dianetics in his 1982 book \"Dianetics and Scientology Technical Dictionary\" (). It is also mentioned in Hubbard's famous Philadelphia Doctorate Course lectures, as well in other material.\n\n"}
{"id": "9097929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9097929", "title": "Christianity in Myanmar", "text": "Christianity in Myanmar\n\nChristianity in Burma has a history dating to the early 18th century. According to the 2014 census, Christianity is the country's second largest religion, practicing by 6.2% of the population, primarily among the Kachin, Chin and Kayin, and Eurasians because of missionary work in their respective areas. About four-fifths of the country’s Christians are Protestants, in particular Baptists of the Myanmar Baptist Convention; Roman Catholics make up the remainder.\n\nChristians have faced some hostility or even persecution since the 1920s. Christians have not moved to the higher echelons of power. A small number of foreign organisations have been permitted to enter the country to conduct humanitarian works, such as World Vision following Cyclone Nargis. A long-standing ban on the free entry of missionaries and religious materials has persisted since independence in 1948, which is seen as hostile to Christianity. The burning of Christian churches is reported in South Eastern Myanmar, where the Karens live.\n\nIn the 17th century, Portuguese missionaries arrived. 1925, there were two priests. Several Catholic missionaries arrived in the 1830s from Europe, and by 1841, there were 4500 Catholics. The first nuns arrived in 1847-52. By 1862, the Catholics had one bishop, 11 missionaries, one native priest, one college, and about 6000 members. 1992. Membership was about 27,000, with 66 missionaries, and 12 native priests. The Catholics operated two seminaries, and 73 schools with 3900 students. Today there is a small Roman Catholic element. The Catholic element reached 121,000 population by 1933.\n\nThe Protestant churches of Burma were begun in the early 19th century by Adoniram Judson (1788 – 1850), an American Baptist missionary. It took years of intensive preaching before he reached his first convert, but the numbers grew rapidly, reaching 10,000 by 1851. He translated the Bible into Burmese in 1834. \n\nIn 1865 the Myanmar Baptist Convention was established and in 1927, the Willis and Orlinda Pierce Divinity School was founded in Rangoon as a Baptist seminary. It is still operating as the Myanmar Institute of Theology, catering to students of many Protestant denominations. The majority of converts came from the Karen's ethnic group in the mountainous areas, and not from the Buddhists. By the census of 1921 Christians totaled 257,000, or two percent of the total population. This included about 50,000 Christians of Indian, English or Eurasian heritage; and 69% were Karens. \n\nAfter 1914, the Buddhist element became much more nationalistic, and highly resistant to Christianity. There was hostility toward the Christian Karens, and toward Indian immigrants as well. The Protestant population reached 192,000 in 1926, with the Baptists in the forefront, with over 200 missionaries. Increasingly, the native community took control of the Protestant organizations.\n\nWhen the Japanese seized Burma in 1942, the British and American missionaries fled, but they returned in 1945. Independence from Britain came in 1947, and for years there was simmering tension and sometimes military action by the government against the Karens. This strengthened the Christian religiosity of the Karens minority, and deepened the hostility of the majority Buddhist population toward Christianity. In 1959 the Catholics numbered 184,000, and Protestants were 225,000; most of the Protestants were Baptists. The Catholics began transferring control from the missionaries to local elements in 1959, with the appointment of the Archbishop of Mandalay who is a descendant of Portuguese who arrived in the 17th century. Likewise, the Protestants transferred control to locals in the 1950s.\n\nIn 1966 all foreign missionaries were expelled by the Burmese government, but the Burmese Protestant church has become a vibrant missionary-sending movement, despite financial limitations and geographic isolation. The growth in conversions to Christianity can also be attributed to the subsequent growth in Buddhist nationalism, generally associated with the Burmese majority. The Chin minority group grew from 35% in 1966 to 90% in 2010; the Kachin minority group likewise grew from 40% in 1966 to 90~95% in 2010.\n\nGenerally speaking, most Christians are from the minority ethnic groups such as the Chin, Karen, Lisu, Kachin, and Lahu. Baptists, Assemblies of God, Methodists and Anglicans form the strongest denominations in Burma. The CIA World Factbook mentions that 4% of the population of Myanmar is Christian (Baptist 3%, Roman Catholic 1%). The Anglican Communion is represented in Burma by the Church of the Province of Myanmar. , it has about 62,000 members.\n\nHenry Van Thio is Second Vice President of Myanmar since 2016. He is an ethnic Chin and a member of the United Pentecostal Church International, making him the first non-Buddhist, as well as the first Christian, to hold the office of the Vice President of Myanmar. His faith has been the subject of controversy as after his appointment nationalist monks protested saying that only Buddhists should hold political positions. \n\nIn 2015, the U.S. Embassy in Myanmar announced that it gave an award of $125,000 to World Monuments Fund (WMF) to restore the historic First Baptist Church in Mawlamyine (Moulmein) through the Ambassadors Fund for Cultural Preservation. First Baptist Church in Mawlamyine is Myanmar's first Baptist church and it was initially built in 1827 by the legendary Adoniram Judson.\n\nThere is a small Armenian Orthodox Christian minority in Burma centred on St. John the Baptist Armenian Apostolic Church in Yangon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28845738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28845738", "title": "Church of Body Modification", "text": "Church of Body Modification\n\nThe Church of Body Modification is a non-theistic religion with approximately 3,500 members in the United States. The church practices body modification in order to \"strengthen the bond between mind, body, and soul\" and to experience the divine.\n\nThe core belief of the Church of Body Modification is to create a strong spiritual bond between the mind, body and soul. To ensure a strong connection, the Church uses both ancient and modern body modification rituals to show its faith and allow its members to bring the three branches of life into harmony. The Church practices various types of body modification, such as piercings, tattoos, scarification, corsetry, hook pulling, hair dying, reconstructive and cosmetic surgery, fasting, and firewalking. It states that anything that pushes the flesh to its limits can be included in their list of rituals. The end goal is to live spiritually complete lives. There is no deity involved. The Church itself helps educate individuals on the various body modification rites. In its Vision Statement, the Church says it hopes to one day be able to practice their rituals without restriction in a world that doesn't have prejudice against them.\n\nMembers of other religions are welcomed into the Church of Body Modification. Since there is no physical location for the Church, home rituals are usually prevalent. There are monthly online classes for members. It does not gain new members from promotion, but solely through attraction to its ideals.\n\nThere are various levels of membership in the Church of Body Modification.\n\nThe Church of Body Modification is run by a Board of Advisors. The Board acts as an unbiased perspective within the community. The criteria for becoming a Board member includes expertise in the subject of body modification and a positive standing in the community. At the moment, there are currently three advisors: Cere Coichetti, Russ Foxx, and Jared Karnes. One of the former advisors Rick Frueh passed away in October 2017.\n\nBelow those Board Members are Ministers, who function as spiritual guides. Since many of the practices of the church are risky, they are there to make sure people stay safe. According to the Code of Ethics, \"Spiritual guides are to practice and serve in ways that cultivate awareness, empathy, and wisdom.\" To become a minister, there is an application.\n\nTo become a member of the Church of Body Modification, there is an application screened by ministers. Not everyone can become a member. You must have a significant spiritual relation to body modification to be considered.\n\nIn 2001, a member of the Church of Body Modification was fired from a Costco because of an eyebrow ring. The employee sued Costco claiming that wearing the eyebrow ring was a religious practice and thus protected under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The court ruled in favor of Costco, holding that Costco had reasonably accommodated her when they offered to reinstate her if she covered or removed the piercing. On appeal, the 1st Circuit affirmed the ruling, adding that Costco had no duty to accommodate the employee as exempting her from the dress code would result in an undue hardship for Costco.\n\nA 14-year-old member of the Church was suspended from Clayton High School in North Carolina, United States because a nose stud was against the dress code. Her school principal said that she could find any reason as to why the religion required her to wear the nose ring. The ACLU took the matter to federal court on free speech grounds, and a federal judge ruled in her favor October 8, 2010.\n\nFor the military personnel in the United States, attaching, affixing or displaying objects, articles, jewelry, or ornamentation to, through, or under their skin, tongue, or any other body part is prohibited (where the term \"skin\" is not only confined to external skin, but includes the tongue, lips, inside the mouth, and other surfaces of the body not readily visible). This applies to all soldiers on or off duty. The only exception is for female soldiers, who may wear earrings (consistent with paragraph 3–4d) with the service, dress, and mess uniforms. Male soldiers are not authorized to wear earrings.\n\n"}
{"id": "26748038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26748038", "title": "Columna Lactaria", "text": "Columna Lactaria\n\nThe Columna Lactaria (\"Milk Column\") was a landmark in ancient Rome in the Forum Holitorium, or produce market. The Roman grammarian Festus says it was so called \"because they would bring babies there to be fed with milk.\" It seems to have been a public charity where poor parents could obtain milk for their infants, or a central site for locating and hiring wet nurses. It has also been interpreted as a sanctioned site of child abandonment, where parents unable or unwilling to care for newborns could leave the child in the hope that it might be pitied and fostered (that is, given milk).\nThe \"Columna Lactaria\" was located close to the Temple of Pietas, which displayed a painting on the theme of \"Caritas Romana\" (\"Roman Charity\"), about a woman giving breastmilk to an aged parent. The column was probably destroyed by the construction of the Theater of Marcellus, beginning in the 40s BC. One of the neighborhoods razed for the construction of the theater was the Vicus Sobrius, where the residents offered libations of milk to a Punic god Romanized as \"Mercurius Sobrius\". This community may have maintained the \"Columna Lactaria\"; Robert E.A. Palmer thought that the milk-offerings of Punic cult might shed light on the significance of the column. Into the early 20th century, the piazza Montanara adjacent to the theater continued to be a place where wet nurses could be sought for hire.\n"}
{"id": "33722402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33722402", "title": "Dashami", "text": "Dashami\n\nDashami is the Sanskrit word for \"ten\", and is the tenth day in the lunar fortnight (\"Paksha\") of the Hindu calendar. Each month has two Dashami days, being the tenth day of the \"bright\" (\"Shukla\") and of the \"dark\" (\"Krishna\") fortnights respectively. Thus Dashami occurs on the tenth and the twenty-fifth day of each month.\n\n"}
{"id": "61503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61503", "title": "Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople", "text": "Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople\n\nThe Ecumenical Patriarch (, \"His Most Divine All-Holiness the Archbishop of Constantinople, New Rome, and Ecumenical Patriarch\") is the Archbishop of Constantinople–New Rome and ranks as \"primus inter pares\" (first among equals) among the heads of the several autocephalous churches that make up the Eastern Orthodox Church. The term \"Ecumenical\" in the title is a historical reference to the Ecumene, a Greek designation for the civilised world, i.e. the Roman Empire, and it stems from Canon 28 of the Council of Chalcedon.\n\nThe Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople is one of the most enduring institutions in the world and has had a prominent part in world history. The ecumenical patriarchs in ancient times helped in the spread of Christianity and the resolution of various doctrinal disputes. In the Middle Ages they played a major role in the affairs of the Eastern Orthodox Church, as well as in the politics of the Orthodox world, and in spreading Christianity among the Slavs. Currently, in addition to the expansion of the Christian faith and the Eastern Orthodox doctrine, the patriarchs are involved in ecumenism and interfaith dialogue, charitable work, and the defense of Orthodox Christian traditions.\n\nWithin the five apostolic sees of the Pentarchy, the Ecumenical Patriarch is regarded as the successor of Andrew the Apostle. The current holder of the office is Bartholomew I, the 270th bishop of that see.\n\nThe Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople is \"first among equals\", or first in honor among all Eastern Orthodox bishops, who presides in person—or through a delegate—over any council of Orthodox primates or bishops in which he takes part and serves as primary spokesman for the Orthodox communion especially in ecumenical contacts with other Christian denominations. He has no direct jurisdiction over the other patriarchs or the other autocephalous Orthodox churches, but he, alone among his fellow primates, enjoys the right of convening extraordinary synods consisting of them or their delegates to deal with \"ad hoc\" situations and has also convened well-attended Pan-Orthodox Synods in the last forty years. His unique role often sees the Ecumenical Patriarch referred to as the spiritual leader of the Orthodox Church in some sources, though this is not an official title of the patriarch nor is it usually used in scholarly sources on the patriarchate. The Orthodox Church is entirely decentralized, having no central authority, earthly head or a single Bishop in a leadership role, having synodical system canonically, is significantly distinguished from the hierarchically organized Catholic Church whose doctrine is the papal supremacy. His titles \"primus inter pares\" \"first among equals\" and \"Ecumenical Patriarch\" are of honor rather than authority and in fact the Ecumenical Patriarch has no real authority over Churches other than the Constantinopolitan.\n\nThe Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople is the direct administrative superior of dioceses and archdioceses serving millions of Greek, Ukrainian, Rusyn and Albanian believers in North and South America, Western Europe, Australia and New Zealand, Korea, as well as parts of modern Greece which, for historical reasons, do not fall under the jurisdiction of the Church of Greece.\n\nThe Orthodox Church in America, while acknowledging the Ecumenical Patriarch's role in \"guiding and preserving the worldwide unity of the family of self-governing Orthodox Churches\", also emphasizes that he carries no sacramental or juridical power over bishops outside of his own Patriarchate, and further states that \"it is possible that in the future this function may pass to some other church.\"\n\nHis actual position is Patriarch of the Orthodox Church of Constantinople, one of the fourteen autocephalous and several autonomous churches and the most senior (though not oldest) of the four orthodox ancient primatial sees among the five patriarchal Christian centers comprising the ancient Pentarchy of the undivided Church. In his role as head of the Orthodox Church of Constantinople, he also holds the title \"Archbishop of Constantinople, New Rome\".\n\nThe Ecumenical Patriarchate is also sometimes called the Greek Patriarchate of Constantinople to distinguish him from the Armenian Patriarchate and the extinct Latin Patriarchate, which was created after the Latin capture of Constantinople in 1204, during the Fourth Crusade.\n\nThe see of Byzantium, whose foundation was later ascribed to Andrew the Apostle, was originally a common bishopric. It gained importance when Emperor Constantine elevated Byzantium to a second capital alongside Rome and named it Constantinople. The see's ecclesiastical status as the second of five Patriarchates were developed by the Ecumenical Councils of Constantinople in 381 and Chalcedon in 451.\n\nThe Turkish government recognizes him as the spiritual leader of the Greek minority in Turkey, and refer to him as the Greek (literally \"Rûm\") Orthodox Patriarch of Fener (). The Patriarch was subject to the authority of the Ottoman Empire after the conquest of Constantinople in 1453, until the declaration of Turkish Republic in 1923. Today, according to Turkish law, he is subject to the authority of the state of Turkey and is required to be a citizen of Turkey to be Patriarch.\n\nThe Patriarch of Constantinople has been dubbed the Ecumenical Patriarch since the 6th century. The exact significance of the style, which has been used occasionally for other prelates since the middle of the 5th century, is nowhere officially defined but, according to the Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church, the title has been criticized in the Catholic Church as incompatible with its own claims by the Holy See.\n\nThe monastic communities of Mount Athos are stauropegic and are directly under the jurisdiction of Ecumenical Patriarch, who is the only bishop with jurisdiction thereover. Athos, officially the \"Autonomous Monastic State of the Holy Mountain” (), is a self-governed polity within the Greek state subject to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its political aspect and to the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinopole as regards to its religious aspect and is home to 20 monasteries and numerous other monastic communities.\n\nThe Ecumenical Patriarch has a unique role among Orthodox bishops, though it is not without its controversy. He is \"primus inter pares\" (\"first among equals\"), as he is senior among all Orthodox bishops. This primacy, expressed in canonical literature as \"presbeia\" (\"prerogatives\", literally: \"seniorities\"), grants to the Ecumenical Patriarch the right to preside at pan-Orthodox synods.\n\nAdditionally, the canonical literature of the Orthodox Church grants to the Ecumenical Patriarch the right to hear appeals in cases of dispute between bishops. However, whether these canonical rights are limited only to his own patriarchate or are universal throughout the Orthodox Church is the subject of debate, especially between the Ecumenical Patriarchate and the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nHistorically, the Ecumenical Patriarch has heard such appeals and sometimes was invited to intervene in other churches' disputes and difficulties. Even as early as the 4th century, Constantinople was instrumental in the deposition of multiple bishops outside its traditional jurisdiction. This still occurs today, as when in 2006 the patriarchate was invited to assist in declaring the archbishop of the Church of Cyprus incompetent due to his having Alzheimer's disease. Additionally, in 2005, the Ecumenical Patriarchate convoked a pan-Orthodox synod to express the Orthodox world's confirmation of the deposition of Patriarch Irenaios of Jerusalem. In 2006, the patriarchate was invited to hear the appeal of a Russian Orthodox bishop in the United Kingdom in a dispute with his superior in Moscow, though the result of that appeal - and the right to make it - were both rejected by the latter.\n\nThe Ecumenical Patriarch has no direct jurisdiction outside the Patriarchate of Constantinople granted to him in Orthodox canonical literature, but his primary function regarding the whole Orthodox Church is one of dealing with relations between autocephalous and autonomous churches. That is, his primary role is one of promoting and sustaining Church unity.\n\nThis unique role often sees the Ecumenical Patriarch referred to as the \"spiritual leader\" of the Orthodox Church in some sources, though this is not an official title of the patriarch nor is it usually used in scholarly sources on the patriarchate. Such a title is acceptable if it refers to this unique role, but it sometimes leads to the mistaken belief that the office is thus the equivalent of an Orthodox pope. There is, however, no Orthodox notion equivalent to the papacy: the Orthodox churches operate in the synodical system, whereby ecclesiastical matters are settled by the competent synod of bishops, in which each bishop has one vote. The five patriarchs of the ancient Pentarchy (Rome, Constantinople, Alexandria, Antioch, and Jerusalem, in that order) are to be given seniority of honour, but have no actual power over other bishops other than the power of the synod they are chairing (and in which they also wield one vote).\n\nIn 2007, the Patriarch gave his approval to the Ravenna Document, a Catholic–Orthodox document re-asserting that the Bishop of Rome is indeed the \"Prōtos\" (\"First\") of the Church, as in \"first among equals\" and not supreme, although future discussions are to be held on the concrete ecclesiological exercise of papal primacy. According to \"Lumen Gentium\", the Patriarch is a validly consecrated bishop in Roman ecclesiology, and there is merely an imperfect ecclesial communion between Constantinople and Rome, which exists nevertheless and which may be improved at some point in history.\n\nBecause of the work of Ecumenical Patriarch Dimitrios, who established September 1 as the day for the protection of the environment, and especially the ongoing work of the current Patriarch, Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew has been given the title, \"Green Patriarch\". Thus, the person of Bartholomew and by extension the position of the Ecumenical Patriarch is now being viewed as a religious spokesperson on environmental issues and the \"green\" spiritual leader in the world.\n\nThe (arch)bishopric of Constantinople has had a continuous history since the founding of the city in 330 AD by Constantine the Great. After Constantine the Great had enlarged Byzantium to make it into a second capital city in 330, it was thought appropriate that its bishop, once a suffragan of the Exarch of Thrace and Macedonia, the Metropolitan of Heraclea, should be elevated to an archbishopric. For many decades the heads of the church of Rome opposed this ambition, not because anyone thought of disputing their first place, but because they defended the 'Petrine principle' by which all Patriarchates were derived from Saint Peter and were unwilling to violate the old order of the hierarchy for political reasons.\nIn 381, the First Council of Constantinople declared that \"The Bishop of Constantinople shall have the primacy of honour after the Bishop of Rome, because it is New Rome\" (canon iii). The prestige of the office continued to grow not only because of the obvious patronage of the Byzantine Emperor but because of its overwhelming geographical importance.\n\nThe Council of Chalcedon in 451 established Constantinople as a patriarchate with ecclesiastical jurisdiction over Asia Minor (the dioceses of Asiane and Pontus) and Thrace as well as over the barbaric territories, non-converted lands outside the defined area of the Western Patriarchate (Old Rome) and the other three patriarchates, Alexandria, Antioch and Jerusalem, gave it appellate jurisdiction extraterritorially over canon law decisions by the other patriarchs and granted it honours equal to those belonging to the first Christian see, Rome, in terms of primacy, Rome retaining however its seniority (canon xxviii). Leo I refused to accept this canon, basing himself on the fact that it was made in the absence of his legates. In the 6th century, the official title became that of \"Archbishop of Constantinople, New Rome, and Ecumenical Patriarch.\"\n\nThe current Patriarch (since 1991) is Bartholomew I who has become better-known than any of his predecessors in modern times as a result of his numerous pastoral and other visits to numerous countries in five continents and his setting up of a permanent bureau at the EU headquarters, in addition to enhancing the long-established Patriarchal Centre in Pregny-Chambésy, Switzerland and also his ecological pursuits which have won him the epithet of \"the Green Patriarch\".\n\nWhen the Ottoman Turks conquered Constantinople in 1453, the Patriarchate ceased to function. The Patriarchate was restored by the conquering ruler, Sultan Mehmed II, who wished to establish his dynasty as the direct heirs of the Eastern Roman Emperors, and who adopted the imperial title \"Kayser-i-Rûm\" \"Caesar of the Romans\", one of his subsidiary titles but a significant one. In 1454 he bestowed the office upon an illustrious Byzantine scholar-monk who was well known for his opposition to union with the Latin West, Gennadius Scholarius, who became Patriarch Gennadius II.\n\nThe Patriarch was designated \"millet-başı\" (ethnarch) of the Millet of \"Rum\", which included all Orthodox Christians under Ottoman rule, regardless of their ethnicity in the modern sense. This role was carried out by ethnic Greeks at their great peril, in the midst of enormous difficulties and traps and inevitably with mixed success. Several incumbents of the patriarchal throne were summarily executed by the Ottoman authorities, most notably Patriarch Gregory V, who was lynched on Easter Monday 1821 as partial retribution for the outbreak of the last and only successful Greek Revolution.\n\nIn the 19th century, the rising tide of nationalism and secularism among the Balkan Christian nations led to the establishment of several autocephalous national churches, generally under autonomous Patriarchs or Archbishops, leaving the Ecumenical Patriarch only direct control over the ethnically Greek-originated Orthodox Christians of Turkey, parts of Greece and the archdioceses in North America, Asia, Africa and Oceania where growing Greek and other migrant communities have gradually constituted a significant orthodox diaspora. Turkish and Armenian Orthodox Christians in Turkey have independent Churches.\n\nAfter the proclamation of the Republic of Turkey on October 29, 1923, the Turkish state only recognizes the Patriarch as the spiritual leader of the Greek minority in Turkey, and officially refers to him as the \"Greek Orthodox Patriarch of the Phanar\" or \"Roman Orthodox Patriarch of Constantinople\" () (Phanar is the neighbourhood in Istanbul where the patriarchate is located). According to Turkish law, still in force today, he is subject to the authority of the Republic of Turkey; however, Turkey allows the Standing Synod of Metropolitan Bishops to elect the Patriarch. To be electable, Turkish law requires the candidates to be Turkish citizens by birth. Since the establishment of modern Turkey, the position of the Ecumenical Patriarch has been filled by Turkish-born citizens of Greek ethnicity. As nearly all Greek Orthodox have left Turkey (see Population exchange between Greece and Turkey and Istanbul Pogrom), this considerably narrows the field of candidates for succession.\n\nHuman rights groups and Christian governments have long protested against conditions placed by the secular government of Turkey on the Ecumenical Patriarch, a religious office. The same policy also applied to the Institution of the Islamic Caliphate, which was abolished by Turkey. For example, the ecumenical status accorded him traditionally within Eastern Orthodoxy, and recognized previously by the Ottoman governments, has on occasion been a source of controversy within the Republic of Turkey. This policy results in problems in the function of the Patriarchate, since clergy coming from abroad are not eligible to apply for residence and work permits. In its early days the Turkish state promoted a rival Turkish Orthodox Patriarchate, whose congregation, however, has remained limited.\n\nExpropriation of Church property and the conditions of state control imposed on the Orthodox Theological School of Halki that have led to its closure by the Patriarchate, are also cited by human rights groups. However, in 2004 Patriarch Bartholomew, with the help of the Turkish government, succeeded, after eighty years, in altering the composition of the twelve-member Standing Synod of Metropolitan Bishops in Constantinople so that it can include six bishops from outside Turkey. He has also been convening biennially in Constantinople convocations of all bishops in his jurisdiction.\n\nThe Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople has suffered attacks on occasion from 1993 to 2004, including desecration of patriarchal cemeteries as well as personal assaults against the Ecumenical Patriarch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "306850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=306850", "title": "El Dorado", "text": "El Dorado\n\nEl Dorado (, ; Spanish for \"the golden one\"), originally \"El Hombre Dorado\" (\"The Golden Man\") or \"El Rey Dorado\" (\"The Golden King\"), was the term used by the Spanish Empire to describe a mythical tribal chief (\"zipa\") of the Muisca native people in then Spanish colonial province of Colombia, who, as an initiation rite, covered himself with gold dust and submerged in Lake Guatavita. The legends surrounding El Dorado changed over time, as it went from being a man, to a city, to a kingdom, and then finally to an empire.\n\nA second location for El Dorado was inferred from rumors, which inspired several unsuccessful expeditions in the late 1500s in search of a city called Manõa on the shores of Lake Parime. Two of the most famous of these expeditions were led by Sir Walter Raleigh. In pursuit of the legend, Spanish conquistadors and numerous others searched Colombia, Venezuela, and parts of Guyana and northern Brazil for the city and its fabulous king. In the course of these explorations, much of northern South America, including the Amazon River, was mapped. By the beginning of the 19th century, most people dismissed the existence of the city as a myth.\n\nSeveral literary works have used the name in their titles, sometimes as \"El Dorado\", and other times as \"Eldorado\".\n\nThe Muisca occupied the highlands of Cundinamarca and Boyacá departments of Colombia in two migrations from outlying lowland areas, one starting c. 1270 BCE, and a second between 800 BCE and 500 BCE. At those times, other more ancient civilizations also flourished in the highlands. The Muisca Confederation was as advanced as the Aztec, Maya and Inca civilizations.\n\nIn the mythology of the Muisca, Mnya the Gold or golden color, represents the energy contained in the trinity of Chiminigagua, which constitutes the creative power of everything that exists. Chiminigagua is related to Bachué, Cuza, Chibchacum, Bochica, and Nencatacoa.\n\nThe original narrative can be found in the rambling chronicle \"El Carnero\" of Juan Rodriguez Freyle. According to Freyle, the \"zipa\" of the Muisca, in a ritual at Lake Guatavita near present-day Bogotá, was said to be covered with gold dust, which he then washed off in the lake while his attendants threw objects made of gold, emeralds, and precious stones into the lake - such as tunjos.\n\nIn 1638, Freyle wrote this account of the ceremony, addressed to the \"cacique\" or governor of Guatavita:\n\nThere is also an account, titled \"The Quest of El Dorado\", by poet-priest and historian of the Conquest Juan de Castellanos, who had served under Jiménez de Quesada in his campaign against the Muisca, written in the mid-16th century but not published until 1850:\n\nAccording to Spanish historian Gonzalo Fernández de Oviedo (1478–1557):\n\nHe went about all covered with powdered gold, as casually as if it were powdered salt. For it seemed to him that to wear any other finery was less beautiful, and that to put on ornaments or arms made of gold worked by hammering, stamping, or by other means, was a vulgar and common thing.\n\nIn the Muisca territories, there were a number of natural locations considered sacred, including lakes, rivers, forests and large rocks. People gathered here to perform rituals and sacrifices mostly with gold and emeralds. Important lakes were Lake Guatavita, Lake Iguaque, Lake Fúquene, Lake Tota, the Siecha Lakes, Lake Teusacá and Lake Ubaque.\n\nEl Dorado is applied to a legendary story in which precious stones were found in fabulous abundance along with gold coins. The concept of El Dorado underwent several transformations, and eventually accounts of the previous myth were also combined with those of a legendary lost city. The resulting El Dorado myth enticed European explorers for two centuries. Among the earliest stories was the one told on his deathbed by Juan Martinez, a captain of munitions for Spanish adventurer Diego de Ordaz, who claimed to have visited the city of Manoa. Martinez had allowed a store of gunpowder to catch fire and was condemned to death, however his friends let him escape downriver in a canoe. Martinez then met with some local people who took him to the city:\n\nThe fable of Juan Martinez was founded on the adventures of Juan Martin de Albujar, well known to the Spanish historians of the Conquest; and who, in the expedition of Pedro de Silva (1570), fell into the hands of the Caribs of the Lower Orinoco.\n\nDuring the 16th and 17th centuries, Europeans, still fascinated by the New World, believed that a hidden city of immense wealth existed. Numerous expeditions were mounted to search for this treasure, all of which ended in failure. The illustration of El Dorado's location on maps only made matters worse, as it made some people think that the city of El Dorado's existence had been confirmed. The mythical city of El Dorado on Lake Parime was marked on numerous maps until its existence was disproved by Alexander von Humboldt during his Latin America expedition (1799–1804).\n\nMeanwhile, the name of \"El Dorado\" came to be used metaphorically of any place where wealth could be rapidly acquired. It was given to El Dorado County, California, and to towns and cities in various states. It has also been anglicized to the single word \"Eldorado\", and is sometimes used in product titles to suggest great wealth and fortune, such as the Cadillac Eldorado line of luxury automobiles.\nEl Dorado is also sometimes used as a metaphor to represent an ultimate prize or \"Holy Grail\" that one might spend one's life seeking. It could represent true love, heaven, happiness, or success. It is used sometimes as a figure of speech to represent something much sought after that may not even exist, or, at least, may not ever be found. Such use is evident in Edgar Allan Poe's poem \"\"El Dorado\".\" In this context, El Dorado bears similarity to other myths such as the Fountain of Youth and Shangri-la. The other side of the ideal quest metaphor may be represented by \"Helldorado\", a satirical nickname given to Tombstone, Arizona (United States) in the 1880s by a disgruntled miner who complained that many of his profession had traveled far to find El Dorado, only to wind up washing dishes in restaurants. The South African city Johannesburg is commonly interpreted as a modern-day El Dorado, due to the extremely large gold deposit found along the Witwatersrand on which it is situated.\n\nSpanish conquistadores had noticed the native people's fine artifacts of gold and silver long before any legend of \"golden men\" or \"lost cities\" had appeared. The prevalence of such valuable artifacts, and the natives' apparent ignorance of their value, inspired speculation as to a plentiful source for them.\n\nPrior to the time of the Spanish conquest of the Muisca and discovery of Lake Guatavita, a handful of expeditions had set out to explore the lowlands to the east of the Andes in search of gold, cinnamon, precious stones, and anything else of value. During the Klein-Venedig period in Venezuela (1528–1546), agents of the German Welser banking family (which had received a concession from Charles I of Spain) launched repeated expeditions into the interior of the country in search of gold, starting with Ambrosius Ehinger's first expedition in July 1529.\n\nSpanish explorer Diego de Ordaz, then governor of the eastern part of Venezuela known as Paria (named after Paria Peninsula), was the first European to explore the Orinoco river in 1531–32 in search of gold. A veteran of Hernán Cortés's campaign in Mexico, Ordaz followed the Orinoco beyond the mouth of the Meta River but was blocked by the rapids at Atures. After his return he died, possibly poisoned, on a voyage back to Spain.\nAfter the death of Ordaz while returning from his expedition, the Crown appointed a new Governor of Paria, Jerónimo de Ortal, who diligently explored the interior along the Meta River between 1532 and 1537. In 1535, he ordered captain Alonso de Herrera to move inland by the waters of the Uyapari River (today the town of Barrancas del Orinoco). Herrera, who had accompanied Ordaz three years before, explored the Meta River but was killed by the indigenous Achagua near its banks, while waiting out the winter rains in Casanare.\n\nThe earliest reference to the name \"El Dorado\" was in 1535 or 1536, before Spanish contact with the Muisca people.\n\nBetween 1531 and 1538, the German conquistadors Nikolaus Federmann and Georg von Speyer searched the Venezuelan lowlands, Colombian plateaus, Orinoco Basin and Llanos Orientales for El Dorado. Subsequently, Philipp von Hutten accompanied Von Speyer on a journey (1536–38) in which they reached the headwaters of the Rio Japura, near the equator. In 1541 Hutten led an exploring party of about 150 men, mostly horsemen, from Coro on the coast of Venezuela in search of the Golden City. After several years of wandering, harassed by the natives and weakened by hunger and fever, he crossed the Rio Bermejo, and went on with a small group of around 40 men on horseback into Los Llanos, where they engaged in battle with a large number of Omaguas and Hutten was severely wounded. He led those of his followers who survived back to Coro in 1546. On Hutten's return, he and a traveling companion, Bartholomeus VI. Welser, were executed in El Tocuyo by the Spanish authorities.\n\nIn 1535, Captains Anasco and Ampudia were dispatched by Spanish conquistador Sebastián de Belalcázar, one of Francisco Pizarro's chief lieutenants, to discover the valley of \"Dorado\" in pursuit of the splendid riches of the Zaque, or chieftain of Cundinamarca, described by a wandering Indian of Tacumga.\n\nIn 1536 Gonzalo Díaz de Pineda had led an expedition to the lowlands to the east of Quito and had found cinnamon trees but no rich empire.\n\nIn 1536, stories of El Dorado drew the Spanish conquistador Gonzalo Jimenez de Quesada and his army of 800 men away from their mission to find an overland route to Peru and up into the Andean homeland of the Muisca for the first time. The southern Muisca settlements and their treasures quickly fell to the conquistadors in 1537 and 1538. On the Bogotá savanna, the Spanish received reports from captured natives about El Dorado and the initiation rite of the new \"zipa\", which used to take place in Lake Guatavita. The Spanish captured large amounts of gold from the Muisca, which led them to spread the word that El Dorado was near.\n\nAfter his brother Gonzalo had left for Spain in May 1539, Spanish conquistador Hernán Pérez de Quesada set out a new expedition in September 1540, leaving with 270 Spanish soldiers and countless indigenous porters to explore the Llanos Orientales. One of his main captains on this journey was Baltasar Maldonado. Their expedition was unsuccessful and after reaching Quito, the troops returned to Santafe de Bogotá.\n\nIn 1540, Gonzalo Pizarro, the younger half-brother of Francisco Pizarro, the Spanish conquistador who toppled the Incan Empire in Peru, was made the governor of the province of Quito in northern Ecuador. Shortly after taking lead in Quito, Gonzalo learned from many of the natives of a valley far to the east rich in both cinnamon and gold. He banded together 340 soldiers and about 4000 natives in 1541 and led them eastward down the Rio Coca and Rio Napo. Francisco de Orellana accompanied Pizarro on the expedition as his lieutenant. Gonzalo quit after many of the soldiers and natives had died from hunger, disease, and periodic attacks by hostile natives. He ordered Orellana to continue downstream, where he eventually made it to the Atlantic Ocean. The expedition found neither cinnamon nor gold, but Orellana is credited with discovering the Amazon River (so named because of a tribe of female warriors that attacked Orellana's men while on their voyage).\n\nIn 1560, Basque \"conquistadors\" Pedro de Ursúa and Lope de Aguirre journeyed down the Marañón and Amazon Rivers, in search of El Dorado, with 300 Spaniards and hundreds of natives; the actual goal of Ursúa was to send idle veterans from the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire away, to keep them from trouble-making, using the El Dorado myth as a lure. A year later, Aguirre participated in the overthrow and killing of Ursúa and his successor, Fernando de Guzmán, whom he ultimately succeeded. He and his men reached the Atlantic (probably by the Orinoco River), destroying native villages on the way.\n\nWhile the existence of a sacred lake in the Eastern Ranges of the Andes, associated with Indian rituals involving gold, was known to the Spaniards possibly as early as 1531, its location was only discovered in 1537 by conquistador Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada while on an expedition to the highlands of the Eastern Ranges of the Andes in search of gold.\n\nConquistadores Lázaro Fonte and Hernán Perez de Quesada attempted (unsuccessfully) to drain the lake in 1545 using a \"bucket chain\" of labourers. After 3 months, the water level had been reduced by 3 metres, and only a small amount of gold was recovered, with a value of 3000–4000 pesos (approx. US$100,000 today; a peso or piece of eight of the 15th century weighs 0.88 oz of 93% pure silver).\n\nA later more industrious attempt was made in 1580, by Bogotá business entrepreneur Antonio de Sepúlveda. A notch was cut deep into the rim of the lake, which managed to reduce the water level by 20 metres, before collapsing and killing many of the labourers. A share of the findings—consisting of various golden ornaments, jewellery and armour—was sent to King Philip II of Spain. Sepúlveda's discovery came to approximately 12,000 pesos. He died a poor man, and is buried at the church in the small town of Guatavita.\n\nIn 1801, Alexander von Humboldt made a visit to Guatavita, and on his return to Paris, calculated from the findings of Sepúlveda's efforts that Guatavita could offer up as much as $300 million worth of gold.\n\nIn 1898, the Company for the Exploitation of the Lagoon of Guatavita was formed and taken over by Contractors Ltd. of London, in a deal brokered by British expatriate Hartley Knowles. The lake was drained by a tunnel that emerged in the centre of the lake. The water was drained to a depth of about 4 feet of mud and slime. This made it impossible to explore, and when the mud had dried in the sun, it had set like concrete. Artifacts worth only about £500 were found, and auctioned at Sotheby's of London. Some of these were donated to the British Museum. The company filed for bankruptcy and ceased activities in 1929.\n\nIn 1965, the Colombian government designated the lake as a protected area. Private salvage operations, including attempts to drain the lake, are now illegal.\n\nThe Spanish Governor of Trinidad, Antonio de Berrio (nephew of Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada), made three failed expeditions to look for El Dorado. Between 1583 and 1589 he carried out his first two expeditions, going through the wild regions of the Colombian plains and the Upper Orinoco. In 1590 he began his third expedition, ascending the Orinoco to reach the Caroní River with his own expeditionaries and another 470 men under command of . In March 1591, while he was waiting for supplies on Margarita Island, his entire force was taken captive by Walter Raleigh, who proceeded up the Orinoco in search of El Dorado, with Berrio as a guide. Berrio took them to the territories he had previously explored by himself years before. After several months Raleigh's expedition returned to Trinidad, and he released Berrio at the end of June 1595 on the coast of Cumaná in exchange for some English prisoners. His son Fernando de Berrío y Ourña (1577–1622) also made numerous expeditions in search of El Dorado.\n\nWalter Raleigh's 1595 journey with Antonio de Berrio had aimed to reach Lake Parime in the highlands of Guyana (the supposed location of El Dorado at the time). He was encouraged by the account of Juan Martinez, believed to be Juan Martin de Albujar, who had taken part in Pedro de Silva's expedition of the area in 1570, only to fall into the hands of the Caribs of the Lower Orinoco. Martinez claimed that he was taken to the golden city in blindfold, was entertained by the natives, and then left the city and couldn't remember how to return. Raleigh had set many goals for his expedition, and believed he had a genuine chance at finding the so-called city of gold. First, he wanted to find the mythical city of El Dorado, which he suspected to be an actual Indian city named Manõa. Second, he hoped to establish an English presence in the Southern Hemisphere that could compete with that of the Spanish. His third goal was to create an English settlement in the land called Guyana, and to try to reduce commerce between the natives and Spaniards.\n\nIn 1596 Raleigh sent his lieutenant, Lawrence Kemys, back to Guyana in the area of the Orinoco River, to gather more information about the lake and the golden city. During his exploration of the coast between the Amazon and the Orinoco, Kemys mapped the location of Amerindian tribes and prepared geographical, geological and botanical reports of the country. Kemys described the coast of Guiana in detail in his \"Relation of the Second Voyage to Guiana\" (1596) and wrote that indigenous people of Guiana traveled inland by canoe and land passages towards a large body of water on the shores of which he supposed was located Manoa, Golden City of El Dorado.\n\nThough Raleigh never found El Dorado, he was convinced that there was some fantastic city whose riches could be discovered. Finding gold on the riverbanks and in villages only strengthened his resolve. In 1617, he returned to the New World on a second expedition, this time with Kemys and his son, Watt Raleigh, to continue his quest for El Dorado. However, Raleigh, by now an old man, stayed behind in a camp on the island of Trinidad. Watt Raleigh was killed in a battle with Spaniards and Kemys subsequently committed suicide. Upon Raleigh's return to England, King James ordered him to be beheaded for disobeying orders to avoid conflict with the Spanish. He was executed in 1618.\n\nIn early 1611 Sir Thomas Roe, on a mission to the West Indies for Henry Frederick, Prince of Wales, sailed his 200-ton ship, the \"Lion's Claw\", some up the Amazon, then took a party of canoes up the Waipoco (probably the Oyapock River) in search of Lake Parime, negotiating thirty-two rapids and traveling about one hundred miles before they ran out of food and had to turn back.\n\nIn 1637-38, two monks, Acana and Fritz, undertook several journeys to the lands of the Manoas, indigenous peoples living in western Guyana and what is now Roraima in northeastern Brazil. Although they found no evidence of El Dorado, their published accounts were intended to inspire further exploration.\n\nIn November 1739, Nicholas Horstman, a German surgeon commissioned by the Dutch Governor of Guiana, traveled up the Essequibo River accompanied by two Dutch soldiers and four Indian guides. In April 1741 one of the Indian guides returned reporting that in 1740 Horstman had crossed over to the Rio Branco and descended it to its confluence with the Rio Negro. Horstman discovered Lake Amucu on the North Rupununi but found neither gold nor any evidence of a city.\n\nIn 1740, Don Manuel Centurion, Governor of Santo Tomé de Guayana de Angostura del Orinoco in Venezuela, hearing a report from an Indian about Lake Parima, embarked on a journey up the Caura River and the Paragua River, causing the deaths of several hundred persons. His survey of the local geography, however, provided the basis for other expeditions starting in 1775.\n\nFrom 1775 to 1780, Nicholas Rodriguez and Antonio Santos, two entrepreneurs employed by the Spanish Governors, set out on foot and Santos, proceeding by the Caroní River, the Paragua River, and the Pacaraima Mountains, reached the Uraricoera River and Rio Branco, but found nothing.\n\nBetween 1799 and 1804, Alexander von Humboldt conducted an extensive and scientific survey of the Guyana river basins and lakes, concluding that a seasonally-flooded confluence of rivers may be what inspired the notion of a mythical Lake Parime, and of the supposed golden city on the shore, nothing was found. Further exploration by Charles Waterton (1812) and Robert Schomburgk (1840) confirmed Humboldt's findings.\n\nBy the mid-1570s, the Spanish silver strike at Potosí in Upper Peru (modern Bolivia) was producing unprecedented real wealth.\n\nIn 1603, Queen Elizabeth I of England died, bringing to an end the era of Elizabethan adventurism. A bit later, in 1618, Sir Walter Raleigh, the great inspirer, was beheaded for insubordination and treason.\nIn 1695, \"bandeirantes\" in the south struck gold along a tributary of the São Francisco River in the highlands of State of Minas Gerais, Brazil. The prospect of real gold overshadowed the illusory promise of \"gold men\" and \"lost cities\" in the vast interior of the north.\n\nIt appears today that the Muisca obtained their gold in trade, and while they possessed large quantities of it over time, no great store of the metal was ever accumulated.\n\nIn 1987–1988, an expedition led by John Hemming of the Royal Geographical Society of London failed to uncover any evidence of the ancient city of Manoa on the in north-central Roraima. Members of the expedition were accused of looting historic artifacts but an official report of the expedition described it as \"an ecological survey.\"\n\nAlthough it was dismissed in the 19th century as a myth, some evidence for the existence of a lake in northern Brazil has been uncovered. In 1977 Brazilian geologists Gert Woeltje and Frederico Guimarães Cruz along with Roland Stevenson, found that on all the surrounding hillsides a horizontal line appears at a uniform level approximately above sea level. This line registers the water level of an extinct lake which existed until relatively recent times. Researchers who studied it found that the lake's previous diameter measured and its area was about . About 700 years ago this giant lake began to drain due to tectonic movement. In June 1690, a massive earthquake opened a bedrock fault, forming a rift or a graben that permitted the water to flow into the Rio Branco. By the early 19th century it had dried up completely.\n\nRoraima's well-known Pedra Pintada is the site of numerous pictographs dating to the pre-Columbian era. Designs on the sheer exterior face of the rock were most likely painted by people standing in canoes on the surface of the now-vanished lake. Gold, which was reported to be washed up on the shores of the lake, was most likely carried by streams and rivers out of the mountains where it can be found today.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nVoltaire's 1759 satire \"Candide\" describes a place called El Dorado, a geographically isolated utopia where the streets are covered with precious stones, there exist no priests, and all of the king's jokes are funny.\n\nThe Cadillac Eldorado, a personal luxury coupe that was manufactured over six decades.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34230826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34230826", "title": "Enchanted Feminism", "text": "Enchanted Feminism\n\nEnchanted Feminism: The Reclaiming Witches of San Francisco is an anthropological study of the Reclaiming Wiccan community of San Francisco. It was written by the Scandinavian theologian Jone Salomonsen of the California State University, Northridge and first published in 2002 by the Routledge.\n\nContemporary Paganism, which is also referred to as Neo-Paganism, is an umbrella term used to identify a wide variety of modern religious movements, particularly those influenced by or claiming to be derived from the various pagan beliefs of pre-modern Europe. The religion of Pagan Witchcraft, or Wicca, was developed in England during the first half of the 20th century and is one of several Pagan religions. The figure at the forefront of Wicca's early development was the English occultist Gerald Gardner (1884–1964), the author of \"Witchcraft Today\" (1954) and \"The Meaning of Witchcraft\" (1959) and the founder of a tradition known as Gardnerian Wicca. Gardnerian Wicca revolved around the veneration of both a Horned God and a Mother Goddess, the celebration of eight seasonally-based festivals in a Wheel of the Year and the practice of magical rituals in groups known as covens. Gardnerianism was subsequently brought to the U.S. in the early 1960s by an English initiate, Raymond Buckland (1934–), and his then-wife Rosemary, who together founded a coven in Long Island.\n\nIn the U.S., new variants of Wicca developed, including Dianic Wicca, a tradition founded in the 1970s which was influenced by second wave feminism, emphasized female-only covens, and rejected the veneration of the Horned God. One initiate of both the Dianic and Gardnerian traditions was a woman known as Starhawk (1951–) who went on to found her own tradition, Reclaiming Wicca, as well as publishing \"The Spiral Dance: a Rebirth of the Ancient Religion of the Great Goddess\" (1979), a book which helped spread Wicca throughout the U.S.\n\nPrior to Magiocco's work, three American researchers working in the field of Pagan studies had separately published investigations of the Pagan community in both the United States and the United Kingdom. The first of these had been the practicing Wiccan, journalist and political activist Margot Adler in her \"Drawing Down the Moon: Witches, Druids, Goddess-Worshippers, and Other Pagans in America Today\", which was first published by Viking Press in 1979. A second study was produced by the anthropologist Tanya M. Luhrmann in her \"Persuasions of the Witches' Craft: Ritual Magic in Contemporary England\" (1989), in which she focused on both a Wiccan coven and several ceremonial magic orders that were then operating in London. This was followed by the sociologist Loretta Orion's \"Never Again the Burning Times: Paganism Revisited\" (1995), which focused on Pagan communities on the American East Coast and Midwest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5209768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5209768", "title": "Enochian chess", "text": "Enochian chess\n\nEnochian chess is a four-player chess variant, similar to Chaturanga, associated with the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn. The name comes from the Enochian system of magic of Dr. John Dee (magus and astrologer to Queen Elizabeth I), which was later adapted by Victorian members of the Golden Dawn into \"a complete system of training and initiation.\" \n\nEnochian Chess was created by William Wynn Westcott, one of the three founders of the Golden Dawn, but the rules of the game were probably never completed by him. The game was finished by S. L. MacGregor Mathers, who put its rules into final form. The game was four-handed because each set of pieces corresponded to one of the four classical elements and their several watchtowers, and the game was used for divination as well as competition. The four sets of pieces were variously colored, and identified with Egyptian deities or \"god-forms\". The main identifications of the pieces were:\n\n\nThe chess board itself was also varicolored, and divided into four sub-boards in which each of one of the four elemental colors predominated. The rules of the game were partially derived from shatranj and other historical forms of chess; the queen is played like a fers, with a two square diagonal leaping move. The four players would form pairs of two, with each player having a partner. MacGregor Mathers, who finalised the game's rules, was known to play with an invisible partner he claimed was a spirit. Joseph Hone, biographer of William Butler Yeats, claimed, \"Mathers would shade his eyes with his hands and gaze at the empty chair at the opposite corner of the board before moving his partner's piece.\"\n\nThe game, while complex, was in actual use; Georgie Yeats, wife of poet William Butler Yeats, relates actually playing the game as a part of her occult training in Golden Dawn circles. Her husband took part in some of these games, as did MacGregor Mathers. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24302451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24302451", "title": "Family Goy", "text": "Family Goy\n\n\"Family Goy\" is the second episode of the eighth season of the animated comedy series \"Family Guy\". It originally aired on Fox in the United States on October 4, 2009. In the episode, Lois discovers that her mother is Jewish and begins her struggle to adapt to her newfound heritage. Meanwhile, Irish Catholic Peter begins to embrace his wife's new religion, but after a spiritual visit from his deceased stepfather, Francis, he becomes increasingly anti-semitic towards Lois and the family.\n\nFirst announced at the 2009 San Diego Comic-Con International, the episode was written by Mark Hentemann and directed by James Purdum. It received mixed reviews from critics for its storyline and cultural references, in addition to receiving criticism from the Parents Television Council. According to Nielsen ratings, it was viewed in 9.66 million homes in its original airing. The episode featured guest performances by Jeff Bergman, Max Burkholder, Charles Durning, Ben Stein and Bill Woodson, along with several recurring guest voice actors for the series. \"Family Goy\" was released on DVD along with seven other episodes from the season on June 15, 2010.\n\nWhile at the Drunken Clam, Peter falls in love with a cardboard cutout of Kathy Ireland. He takes her home and has an 'affair' with her. Soon he is caught by Lois who calls him an idiot. Peter introduces Kathy to the kids as their new mom, but after finding that Chris took her into his room, he angrily confronts her and ends up ripping her in half. He tearfully buries her in the yard and begs Lois for forgiveness. Lois forgives him and they have sex and Lois is shocked when Peter discovers a lump on her breast, causing her to go to the hospital the next day to have it tested for breast cancer. The test comes back negative, but while looking through her medical records, Dr Hartman discovers that Lois' mother is a Jewish Holocaust survivor, making Lois and her children Jewish by heritage. Barbara confirms her heritage, and Carter admits he kept it a family secret so that they could join the country club. Despite not being Jewish himself, Peter takes to it eagerly, much to Lois' frustration. That night, Peter is visited by the ghost of his adoptive father, Francis, who warns him that he will go to Hell for not being Catholic. The next day, Peter decides to re-convert the family to Catholicism and becomes prejudiced against Lois' heritage, becoming anti-Semitic.\n\nTaking advice from her mother not to let Peter suppress her identity, like her own husband did to her, Lois decides to hold a Passover Seder, which Peter tries to ruin so he can celebrate Easter. He shows up in an Easter bunny costume while drunk. Jesus appears, revealing he himself is Jewish, and points out that Catholicism and Judaism are very similar. He then tells Peter that he should treat people of different faiths as fairly as he wants to be treated. Peter and Lois apologize to each other, but are at a loss for what religion they should follow. After being asked this by Peter, Jesus answers \"Six of one, they're all complete crap.\" and then Brian, himself an atheist, (offscreen) chimes in from the other side of the room, responding \"Thank you!\"\n\nFirst announced at the 2009 San Diego Comic-Con International in San Diego, California on July 25, 2009, by future showrunner Mark Hentemann, the episode was directed by supervising director James Purdum, written by Hentemann, shortly after the conclusion of the seventh production season.\n\n\"Family Goy\", along with the seven other episodes from \"Family Guy\"s eighth season, were released on a three-disc DVD set in the United States on June 15, 2010. The sets included brief audio commentaries by Seth MacFarlane and various crew and cast members for several episodes, a collection of deleted scenes, a special mini-feature which discussed the process behind animating \"Road to the Multiverse\", and mini-feature entitled \"Family Guy\" Karaoke. This episode uses a story element from \"Death is a Bitch\", an episode written by Ricky Blitt, in which Lois discovers a lump on Peter's breast, thinking it would be cancer, whereas the opposite occurred in this episode.\n\nActors Ben Stein and Charles Durning guest starred in the episode as Rabbi Goldberg and Francis Griffin, respectively. Rabbi Goldberg and Max Weinstein, two Jewish characters whom Lois and Peter seek advice from after discovering Lois's heritage, made their second appearance in the series, having previously appeared in the third season episode \"When You Wish Upon a Weinstein\", which was originally banned from airing on network television. However, Peter Riegert did not reprise his role of Max Weinstein. Instead, voice actor Jeff Bergman, notable for playing Fred Flintstone in the show, voices him. In addition to Stein, Durning, Bergman, and the regular cast, child actor Max Burkholder and voice actor William Woodson guest starred in the episode. Recurring guest voice actors Johnny Brennan, actor Ralph Garman, writer Mark Hentemann, writer Danny Smith, writer Alec Sulkin, and writer John Viener also made minor appearances.\n\n\"Family Goy\" contained various cultural references. The episode opens with a parody of the opening sequence of \"The All-New Super Friends Hour\", with the central characters of \"Family Guy\" replacing \"The All-New Super Friends Hour\"s main characters, except for Meg. When Peter first sees the Kathy Ireland cutout, he starts to sing the Billy Ocean song, \"Suddenly\". As Lois collects the mail Peter attempts to shoot her, topless and armed with a sniper rifle, but instead hits the mailbox which is reminiscent of a scene in \"Schindler's List\" of Amon Göth shooting down Jews in the Kraków-Płaszów concentration camp in occupied Poland. Stewie's prayer over the candles is a real prayer that women recite before a non-Sabbath festival's start; however, the prayer turns into a reference to the 1984 adventure film \"Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom\", where Indian priest Mola Ram takes out a man's heart during a ritual. Peter references William Shakespeare's play \"Macbeth\", but the cutaway gag shows a battle in a spaceship, at which Peter admits that he is not very familiar with Shakespeare's works.\n\n\"Family Goy\" was first broadcast in the United States and Canada on Fox on October 4, 2009. The episode was viewed by 9.66 million people and received a 5.4/8 Nielsen Rating, making \"Family Goy\" the ninth most-watched show of the night it was broadcast.\n\nThe episode was met with mixed critical responses. Ahsan Haque of IGN praised the second half of the episode but felt that the Kathy Ireland plot was too long. In his review, he commented \"It's definitely meant for people who are open-minded to this kind of humor, and can make sure they treat the subject matter purely as comedy and not any manner of social commentary or prejudice. Take away the slow start, and this episode managed to really deliver some memorable shocking comedy.\" \"TV Guide\" critic Alex Rocha praised the show's \"League of Justice\" opening sequence and the Kathy Ireland plot but reacted negatively to the second half of the episode, stating that he \"dozed off\" during the last fifteen minutes. \"TV Guide\" also listed the episode on the \"TV hot list\" of October 4. \"The Toronto Star\" noted the episode was \"worth watching\". Todd VanDerWerff of \"The A.V. Club\" gave the episode a negative review, giving it a C– grade and concluding that, \"Overall, the episode was just an excuse to drag out a bunch of tired Jewish jokes and also have Peter briefly descend into anti-Semitism\". Though he mostly disliked the episode, VanDerWerff praised Stewie's part in the episode, as well as the Shakespeare cutaway gag and a cutaway that featured Peter getting into fight with a cat. \"Jewish Journal\" critic Adam Willis commented \"My hope is that the series will roast the familiar Jewish themes introduced in “Family Goy,” rather than continuing on the Jews-as-targets route. The show has regularly featured some inspiring Jewish gags – both in good taste and bad. And while Hebrew community in-jokes would be better received by Jewish viewers, the likely reality is the Holocaust humor will continue to dominate.\"\n\nMedia watchdog group the Parents Television Council, a frequent critic of the show, named \"Family Goy\" its \"Worst TV Show of the Week\" for the week ending October 9, 2009, criticizing what it saw as an anti-Semitic plot.\n\n"}
{"id": "40944505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40944505", "title": "Fear of a Brown Planet Returns", "text": "Fear of a Brown Planet Returns\n\nFear of a Brown Planet Returns is a 2011 Australian concert film directed by Danielle Karalus featuring Australian comedy duo Fear of a Brown Planet (Aamer Rahman and Nazeem Hussain).\n\nThe film features the \"best of\" material from Aamer Rahman and Nazeem Hussain's 2010 sell-out festival show, \"Fear of a Brown Planet Returns\", as well as content from their debut shows. It was recorded at the Chapel Off Chapel in Melbourne on 15 January 2011.\n\nThe film was released on DVD and Blu-ray on 31 August 2011.\n"}
{"id": "19933801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19933801", "title": "Going My Way (TV series)", "text": "Going My Way (TV series)\n\nGoing My Way is an American comedy-drama series starring dancer and actor Gene Kelly. Based on the 1944 film of the same name starring Bing Crosby, the series aired on ABC with new episodes from October 3, 1962, to April 24, 1963. The program was Kelly's first and only attempt at a weekly television series. The series was canceled after one season of thirty episodes.\n\nThe series was produced by Revue Studios (now Universal Television), as parent company MCA owned the rights to the original film through its subsidiary, EMKA, Ltd., which in 1957 bought \"Going My Way\" and many other pre-1950 sound feature films from Paramount Pictures.\n\nKelly stars as Father Chuck O'Malley, a Roman Catholic priest who is sent to St. Dominic's Parish located in a lower-class section of New York City. Leo G. Carroll co-starred as the elderly pastor, Father Fitzgibbons, the Barry Fitzgerald role in the film. Dick York, later of \"Bewitched\", portrayed Chuck's boyhood friend, Tom Colwell, the director of a secular neighborhood youth center. Nydia Westman played Mrs. Featherstone, the housekeeper of the rectory. Episodes focus on Father O'Malley's attempts to connect with the congregation and his relationship with the elderly Father Fitzgibbons.\n\nThe failure of the series to enter a second season is usually attributed to its competition, particularly \"The Beverly Hillbillies\". \"Going My Way\" was also scheduled opposite the final season of \"The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis\" on CBS and the last third of James Drury's 90-minute western, \"The Virginian\", on NBC. Aired at 8:30 p.m. Eastern time on Wednesdays, \"Going My Way\" followed the western series \"Wagon Train\" on the ABC schedule. The program itself was followed on ABC by the sitcom, \"Our Man Higgins\", starring Stanley Holloway, Frank Maxwell, and Audrey Totter.\n\n\nOn December 6, 2011, Timeless Media Group released \"Going My Way: The Complete Series\" on DVD in Region 1 for the very first time.\n\n"}
{"id": "33460226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33460226", "title": "International Center for Tzfat Kabbalah", "text": "International Center for Tzfat Kabbalah\n\nInternational Center for Tzfat Kabbalah was founded in the Old City of Safed, or Tzfat as it is known in Hebrew, in 2007 by the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach, Florida, in cooperation with the Israeli Ministry of Tourism and the Jewish Agency for Israel to promote Safed as a Kabbalah center.\n\nThe center has a \"Visitors' center on the history of Kabbalah in Safed\", a lecture and study room, and a library. The center holds seminars and workshops in receipt of Safed rabbis.\n"}
{"id": "5537988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5537988", "title": "James McCartney", "text": "James McCartney\n\nJames Louis McCartney (born 12 September 1977) is a British musician and songwriter. He is the only son of songwriter and former Beatle Paul McCartney. He has contributed to a number of solo albums by his parents, including \"Flaming Pie\" (1997) and \"Driving Rain\" (2001) by Paul McCartney and \"Wide Prairie\" (1998) by Linda McCartney.\n\nHe has released two EPs and two albums. His most recent, \"The Blackberry Train\", was released on 6 May 2016.\n\nJames Louis McCartney was born in London on 12 September 1977. He is the only son of songwriter and former Beatle Paul McCartney and Paul's first wife, Linda McCartney. He was named after both his paternal grandfather Jim McCartney and his father, whose full name is James Paul McCartney, as well as Linda's late mother, Linda Louise Eastman.\n\nHe spent the first two and a half years of his life on the road while his parents toured with their band Wings. After the band broke up in 1980, the McCartney family settled in Rye, East Sussex. He attended the local state secondary school, the Thomas Peacocke Community College. He has stated his earliest inspiration to learn guitar was Michael J. Fox in \"Back to the Future\". He began playing music when his father gave him a Fender Stratocaster at age nine. The guitar had previously been owned by Carl Perkins.\"\n\nIn 1989, McCartney, with his older sisters Mary McCartney and Stella McCartney, again joined Paul and Linda on a world tour. He continued his education with a tutor while on the road. In 1993, at age 16, while surfing with friends, he was swept out to sea. Coast-guard was called and his family rushed to the site, but he emerged safe on his own 40 minutes later. In 1995, James introduced his sister Mary to television producer Alistair Donald, whom she would later marry.\n\nOn 17 April 1998, in Tucson, Arizona, James, along with his father and sisters, was at his mother's side when she died from breast cancer, which had been diagnosed in 1995. Later that year, McCartney graduated from Bexhill College, near his home in East Sussex, where he pursued studies in A-level Art and Sculpture.\n\nJames has played guitar and drums on some of his father's solo albums, including \"Flaming Pie\" (1997) and \"Driving Rain\" (2001), as well as co-writing a few songs. On \"Flaming Pie\" he has an electric guitar solo on the track \"Heaven on a Sunday\". On \"Driving Rain\", he co-wrote the songs \"Spinning On An Axis\" and \"Back In The Sunshine Again\" with his father, and played percussion on the former track and guitar on the latter.\n\nHe also plays lead guitar on his mother's posthumously released solo album, \"Wide Prairie\" (1998), which included tracks recorded privately over the previous twenty years.\n\nIn 2004 he again left the McCartney family home and began living in a flat in Brighton, where he waited tables while he attended college and worked on his music. In 2005, he accompanied Paul during his 'US' Tour.\n\nAround 2008, he began working with David Kahne, his father, and a number of other musicians on recording his own music. He made his US performing debut with his own original solo material on 14 November 2009 at the Fairfield Arts & Convention Center, during the Fourth Annual David Lynch Weekend for World Peace and Meditation in Fairfield, Iowa. He performed under the pseudonym Light.\n\n\"Available Light\" was McCartney's first official release as both a performer and songwriter. The EP included four original songs composed by James as well as a cover of Neil Young's classic \"Old Man\". In addition to composing the songs and singing, he plays electric and acoustic guitar, mandolin, piano and bass on the recordings. Produced by David Kahne and Paul McCartney, the EP was recorded between Sussex, London and New York over the previous year, including Abbey Road Studios.\n\nHe stated, \"The music was inspired by The Beatles, Nirvana, The Cure, PJ Harvey, Radiohead—and all good music. It is basically rock n' roll, clean sounding and vocal. The words on the album refer to spirituality, love, family, trying to sort out one's life, and many other things.\"\n\nHe previewed tracks from \"Available Light\" when he toured the UK for the first time in February and March 2010, though he at first performed under a pseudonym. The album was released electronically September 2010 on Blake Morgan's Engine Company Records, (now ECR Music Group) to positive reviews. \"Close At Hand\", his second EP, was released in 2011.\n\nMcCartney's \"The Complete EP Collection\" was released on 22 November 2011. The album combines the previous two EPs along with five new original tracks and two new covers. It is his first physical release, the two individual EPs being digital only. Like the EPs, it was produced by Paul McCartney and David Kahne, and is being released by Engine Company Records (now ECR Music Group). \"Rolling Stone\" called the opening track, \"Angel,\" a \"light and cheerful pop track.\" \"AntiMusic\" dubbed the release \"whimsical and reflective, sharp-witted and affectionate. Full of smart, engaging pop songwriting.\" In a \"Rolling Stone\" song exclusive about the track \"New York Times\", James notes he composed the main riff on a family trip when his father \"... was just inches away from me.\"\n\nIn April 2012, McCartney told a BBC interviewer that he had mooted the idea \"a little bit\" of forming a \"next generation\" version of the Beatles with Sean Lennon, Zak Starkey and Dhani Harrison.\n\nMcCartney released his first album on 21 May 2013, titled \"Me\". The album was supported by a tour of the US, starting on 6 April 2013.\n\nMcCartney played at San Francisco's Outside Lands Music Festival in August 2013. He recorded The Beatles' \"Hello, Goodbye\" with The Cure for the album \"The Art of McCartney\", a collection of The Beatles and Paul McCartney solo covers.\n\nMcCartney's most current studio album, \"The Blackberry Train\", was released on 6 May 2016.\n\nLike his elder half-sister Heather McCartney, James lives a relatively private life, unlike his sisters Stella, a fashion designer, and Mary, a photographer. James has a much younger half-sister, Beatrice Milly McCartney, born in 2003 to Paul and his second wife, Heather Mills.\n\nHe has a vegetarian diet leaning towards veganism, and is an animal rights activist.\n\nIn November 2012, James performed at a London benefit for the David Lynch Foundation, which his father also supports.\n\nMcCartney practises Transcendental Meditation: \"Transcendental Meditation plays a big role in my life as it has done for my father and the other Beatles. I meditate regularly—twice a day. ... I find that just 30 minutes of Transcendental Meditation refreshes me as if I had slept a few hours!\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42188394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42188394", "title": "Jewish Community Council", "text": "Jewish Community Council\n\nJewish Community Councils (JCCs) are a form of local Jewish organizations with the purpose of safeguarding Jewish rights, and assisting local residents. Jewish Community Councils were mostly formed in the 1940s.\n\nJewish organizations are locally based, though they do play a role in coordinating activities with national Jewish organizations. JCCs focus on assisting local Jewish community and safeguarding Jewish rights. Recently, Jewish Community Councils have helped out locals in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy.\n\nJewish Community Councils are located in a number of cities in the United States. In New York City alone, there are 24 JCCs.\n\nAccording to the Met Council's JCC listings, there are 24 Jewish Community Councils in New York City's five boroughs.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6523394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6523394", "title": "John the Deacon of the Lateran", "text": "John the Deacon of the Lateran\n\nJohn, known as canon of the Lateran or deacon of the Lateran (\"fl.\" 12th century), was a medieval Roman deacon, canon and religious chronicler. John lived in the second half of the 12th century, and served as a deacon and canon of the Basilica of St. John Lateran. He compiled a work on this papal basilica, and dedicated it, in the preface, to Pope Alexander III (c. 1100/1105 – 1181), thereby indicating the date of its composition. It was obviously a secondary object of the author in composing this work to support the canons of the Lateran in their dispute for precedence with the canons of St. Peter's Basilica.\n\n"}
{"id": "41695374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41695374", "title": "Ka'us III", "text": "Ka'us III\n\nKa'us III (), was the fourth ruler of the Paduspanid branch of Kojur. He was the son and successor of Ashraf ibn Taj al-Dawla.\n\nDuring his reign, relations with the Kia'id Khan Ahmad Khan flourished, and by 1514 family ties were between the Paduspanids and Kia'ids. Nine years later, Ka'us, along with the Marashiyan ruler visited the court of the Safavid king Ismail I. Not much more is known about Ka'us; he died after being poisoned by his son Kayumarth III, whom Ka'us had imprisoned for unknown reasons.\n\n"}
{"id": "26983117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26983117", "title": "Kanhaiya Misl", "text": "Kanhaiya Misl\n\nThe Kanhaiya Misl was founded by the Sandhu Jats, it was first led by Sardar Jai Singh Kanhaiya. It had a strength of 5,000 regular horsemen.\n\nThe Kanhaiya Misl was founded by Sardar Jai Singh (1712-1793), a Sandhu Jatt of the village of Kahna, 21 km south-west of Lahore in the Majha region of Punjab. His father Bhai Khushhal Singh sold hay at Lahore. Jai Singh received the vows of the Khalsa at the hands of Nawab Kapur Singh and joined the derah or jatha of Sardar Amar Singh Kirigra.\n\nIt is commonly believed that the name of the Misl, Kanhaiya, was derived from the name of Jai Singh's village, Kahna, although another explanation connects it with the Sardar's own handsome appearance which earned him the epithet (Kahn) Kanhaiya, an endearing title also used for Lord Krishna a Hindu deity. The Kanhaiya Misl under Jai Singh became the dominant power in the Punjab. He seized a part of Riarki comprising the district of Gurdaspur and the upper portions of Amritsar. He first made his wife's village, Sohiari, in Amritsar district, his headquarters from where he shifted to Batala and thence to Mukerian. His territories lay on both sides of the Beas River and Ravi River.\n\nJai Singh extended his territory up to Parol, about 70 km south-east of Jammu, and the hill chiefs of Kangra, Nurpur, Datarpur became his tributaries. In 1778 with the help of Mahan Singh Sukkarchakkia and Jassa Singh Ahluwalia, he banished Jassa Singh Ramgarhia to the desert region of Hansi and Hissar (Haryana Region).\n\nIn 1781, Jai Singh and his associate Haqiqat Singh led an expedition to Jammu and received a sum of 3,00,000 rupees as tribute from its new ruler, Brij Raj Dev. On Jai Singh's death in 1793, at the age of 81, control of the Kanhaiya clan passed into the hands of his daughter-in-law Sada Kaur, as his son Gurbakhsh Singh had died before him. Sada Kaur whose daughter Mehtab Kaur was married to Ranjit Singh was instrumental in the Sukkarchakkia chief's rise to political power in the Punjab. The Kanheya Misl United with The Sukerchakia Misl in 1796.\n\nNow also kanihyas live in present day in Fatehgarh churian,punjab\n"}
{"id": "1781313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1781313", "title": "List of Christian denominations by number of members", "text": "List of Christian denominations by number of members\n\nThis is a list of Christian denominations by number of members. It is inevitably partial and generally based on claims by the denominations themselves. The numbers should therefore be considered approximate and the article an ongoing work-in-progress.\n\nThe list includes the Catholic Church including the Eastern Catholic Churches; all the Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox churches with some recognition and their offshoots; Protestant denominations with at least 0.2 million members; the provinces of the Anglican Communion with at least 0.2 million members; all the other Christian branches with distinct theologies, such as Restorationist and Nontrinitarianian denominations; the independent Catholic denominations; and the Church of the East.\n\nWith about 2.42 billion adherents all over the world, Christianity is the largest religious group in the world.\n\nFigures below are in accordance with \"Church’s Book of Statistics\" (2014).\n\n\n\n\nProtestantism is the second largest major group of Christians after the Catholic Church by number of followers. Estimates vary considerably, from 400 million up to more than a billion. One of the reasons is the lack of a common agreement among scholars about which denominations constitute Protestantism. For instance, most of the sources but not all of them include Anglicanism as part of Protestantism (see below). Moreover, Protestant denominations do not form a single communion comparable to those of the Catholic Church and Eastern Orthodoxy. Nevertheless, 900 million is the most accepted figure among various authors and scholars, and thus is used in this article. Note that 900 million figure also includes Anglicanism, as well as Anabaptists, Baptists and multiple other groups which have in their scope some denominations that might disavow a common \"Protestant\" designation, and would rather prefer to be called, simply, \"Christian\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe most common estimate of the number of Eastern Orthodox Christians worldwide is 225–300 million, forming a single communion, making it the second largest, single Christian denomination behind the Catholic Church. These are the adherents of the recognized Orthodox jurisdictions (autocephalous and autonomous churches) that are in full communion with each other. In addition, there are some Orthodox splinter groups and non-universally recognized churches.\n\n\n\n\n\nOriental Orthodox churches are the churches descended from those that rejected the Council of Chalcedon in 451. Despite the similar name, they are therefore a different branch of Christianity from the Eastern Orthodox (see above).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nVarious denominations self-identifying as Catholic, despite not being affiliated with the Catholic Church.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23003050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23003050", "title": "List of Hindu temples in Switzerland", "text": "List of Hindu temples in Switzerland\n\nHere is a list of Hindu temples in Switzerland:\n\n\n\nSee Also: All Hindu Temples in Switzerland, their contact details and opening hours \n\n"}
{"id": "11235120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11235120", "title": "List of New Testament minuscules (1–1000)", "text": "List of New Testament minuscules (1–1000)\n\nA New Testament minuscule is a copy of a portion of the New Testament written in a small, cursive Greek script (developed from Uncial).\n\n<br>\n† Indicates the manuscript has damaged or missing pages.\n[ ] Brackets around Gregory-Aland number indicate the manuscript belongs to an already numbered manuscript, was formerly numbered as a copy of another manuscript, was found to not be a continuous text manuscript, was found to be written in modern Greek versus Koine Greek, or has been destroyed.<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "46261851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46261851", "title": "List of Religious Education Association presidents", "text": "List of Religious Education Association presidents\n\nThe following is a list of the presidents and executive secretaries of the Religious Education Association.\n\nThe Religious Education Association is a nonprofit member association, serving as a professional and learned society for scholars and researchers involved in the field of religious education. In 2003 it merged formally with the Association of Professors and Researchers in Religious Education. Up until that date, REA presidents could serve for more than a year at a time, while APRRE presidents served for only one year at a time. At the moment of merger, presidential terms were limited to one year and \"practitioners\" was added to the title of the organization, making it the \"Religious Education Association: An Association of Professors, Practitioners and Researchers in Religious Education\" (REA: APPRRE).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37886481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37886481", "title": "Lists of Catholic church buildings", "text": "Lists of Catholic church buildings\n\nThe thousands of Catholic churches are grouped in a number of lists, mainly by country. Many more are not (yet) grouped in lists, but can be accessed through the category tree .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41002569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41002569", "title": "Lived religion", "text": "Lived religion\n\nLived religion is the ethnographic and holistic framework for understanding the beliefs, practices, and everyday experiences of religious and spiritual persons in religious studies. The name lived religion comes from the French tradition of sociology of religion \"la religion vécue.\"\n\nThe concept of lived religion was popularized in the late 20th century by religious study scholars like Robert A. Orsi and David D. Hall. The study of lived religion has come to include a wide range of subject areas as a means of exploring and emphasizing what a religious person does and what they believe. Today, the field of lived religion is expanding to include many topics and scholars.\n\nRobert A. Orsi is Professor of Religious Studies and History and Grace Craddock Nagle Chair in Catholic Studies at Northwestern University. He researches, writes, and teaches about religion in the United States, in the past and in contemporary contexts, with a particular focus on American Catholicism. Orsi’s book \"The Madonna of 115th Street: Faith And Community In Italian Harlem, 1880-1950\", won several prizes including the Jesuit National Book Award and is an example study of lived religion.\n\nOrsi defines lived religion as including “the work of social agents/actors themselves as narrators and interpreters (and reinterpreters) of their own experiences and histories, recognizing that the stories we tell about others exist alongside the many and varied story they tell of them selves”. Orsi understands lived religion to be centered on the actions and interpretations of religious person.\n\nIn order to study and write about lived religion Orsi suggests a broad field of study in terms of topic matter and methodology. Orsi describes his own process of studying lived religion for \"Madonna On 115th Street\" as wide in scope: “I came to realize that I was learning as much from how people were to me as from what they were telling me, as much as what was going on around the stories as from the stories themselves.” Rather than a narrow archival study, Orsi’s focus on non-traditional forms of research demands that scholars give attention to institutions \"and\" persons, texts \"and\" rituals, practices \"and\" theology, things and ideas. In order to study lived religion, Orsi advocates for a complex academic lens where almost anything can hold meaning and serve as a source or text for study. \n\nIn \"The Madonna Of 115th Street\", Orsi studies the lived religion of Catholic Italian immigrants in Harlem New York. Orsi focuses on a particular religious celebration known as the festa for The Madonna and the social structures that create and layer the event. Through observations, story telling, conversations and research Orsi weaves a picture of life for this immigrant community. In his book, Orsi explores and explains various internal traditions, cultures, and power and social dynamicss in order to illustrate the various religious meanings and significance for community in Italian Harlem.\n\nOrsi talks about the importance of dynamic subject matter covered by the study of lived religion: “the study of lived religion is shaped by and shapes the way family life is organized, for instance; how the dead are buried, children disciplined, the past and present imagined, moral boundaries established and challenged, home constructed, maintained and destroyed, the gods and spirits worshiped and importuned and so on”.\n\nOrsi critiques popular religion as being a limited framework and method for studying religion. Orsi claims that popular religion is “unclear, misleading, and tendentious”. Orsi notes that popular religion is concerned only with the practices of “common folk” and distinguishing popular religion practices as separate from “official religion”. In his introduction to The Madonna on 115th Street, he writes, “popular religion served to seal off certain expressions of religious life from unspecified but obviously normative religion”. Orsi is concerned with the limitations of popular religions because he sees it as potentially authorizing legitimacy and boundaries in religious practices and beliefs. For Orsi, the implied intent in popular religion is to highlight the primitive, ignorant, and often marginalized practitioners of popular religion as a means of “policing religion”. Orsi’s scholarly move to lived religion as a theoretical framework was an attempt to provide a more holistic approach to religious studies and also highlights the perspective that “religious practices and understandings only have meaning in relations to other cultural forms and in relations to the life experiences and actual circumstance of the people using them”.\n\nDavid D. Hall has been a faculty member at Harvard Divinity School since 1989. Hall was Bartlett Professor of New England Church History until 2008, when he became Bartlett Research Professor. Hall writes extensively on religion and society in seventeenth-century New England and England. Hall edited a series of essays titled \"Lived Religion In America: Toward a History Of Practice\", which is a foundational compilation in the study of lived religion. Hall’s book covers topics including gift exchange, cremation, hymn singing and many other essays on lived and practiced religious belief. Many of Hall's students have gone on to become notable scholars in the field of lived religion.\n\nHall defines lived religion as “rooted less in sociology than cultural and ethnographical approaches to the study of religion and American religious history.” He instead sees lived religion as the study of the context and content about the practices of religious laity and their “everyday thinking.” Hall believes that using lived religion as an approach to the study of religion allows for a wider interpretation of meaning and also provides an opportunity for historians to examine the past and present from many angles. For Hall, lived religion “does not depend on any single method or discipline.”\n\nHall also acknowledges the limitations of lived religion. Hall suggests that as a field, lived religion is “fluid, mobile, and incompletely structured.” Hall calls lived religion an “imperfect tool” noting that even with a dynamic study of laity it is impossible to fully understand any one person’s religious practices, especially when summarizing from a single location be it time or place.\n\nHall distinguishes the study of lived religion from popular religion by saying that popular religion is concerned with hierarchy and opposition in religious beliefs and practices. Hall writes, “popular religion has therefore come to signify the space that emerged between official or learned Christianity and the profane (or ‘pagan’) culture.” Hall critiques popular religion as imposing normative perspectives on practices.\n\n"}
{"id": "77031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77031", "title": "Nankana Sahib", "text": "Nankana Sahib\n\nNankana Sahib (Urdu and ) is a city and capital of Nankana Sahib District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is named after the first Guru of the Sikhs, Guru Nanak, who was born in the city and first began preaching here. Today it is a city of high historic and religious value and a popular pilgrimage site for Sikhs from all over the world. It is located about west of Lahore and about east of Faisalabad. The city has a population of approximately 70,000.\n\nThe township was founded by Rai Bhoi, a rich landlord Rajput Muslim and thus was known as Rai-Bhoi-Di-Talwandi. His great-grand son Rai Bular Bhatti, renamed it as 'Nankana Sahib' after the birth of Guru Nanak. The Gurdwara Nankana Sahib, originally constructed in around 1600 CE was renovated in 1819–20 CE by Gian-Punjab Maharaja Jassa Singh Ramgarhia The Sikh Conference of Panjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Peshawar, Kangra and Hazara.\n\nDuring the Akali movement, on 20 February 1921, Narain Das, the Udasi mahant (clergy) of the gurdwara at Nankana Sahib, ordered his men to fire on Akali protesters, leading to the Nankana massacre. The firing was widely condemned, and an agitation was launched until the control of this historic Janam Asthan Gurdwara was restored to the Sikhs. Again in the 1930s and 40's the Sikhs added more buildings and more architectural design.\n\nMigration between India and Pakistan was continuous before independence. By the 1940s Western Punjab was predominantly Muslim and supported the Muslim League and Pakistan Movement. After independence in August 1947, the minority Sikhs and Hindus migrated to India while the Muslim refugees from India settled in the Western Punjab and across Pakistan.\n\nNankana Sahib and it surroundings were formerly a tehsil of Sheikhupura District. In May 2005, the provincial government raised the status of Nankana Sahib to a district as a way of promoting development in the area. The present status is District Nankana Sahib has three tehsils: Nankana Sahib, Shah Kot, and Sangla Hill. Before December 2008, District Nankana Sahib also included Safdarabad Tehsil.\n\nThere are plans to construct a university as well as hospitals and health care facilities by the district government with mutual interest of local communities and family of Rai Bular.\n\nIn 2007, the Pakistan government announced a plan to set up a university on Sikh religion and culture at Nankana Sahib, the birthplace of Guru Nanak. Chairman of Pakistan's Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB), Gen (R) Zulfikar Ali Khan, said that \"The international Guru Nanak University planned at Nankana Sahib would have the best architecture, curricula and research centre on Sikh religion and culture\", .\n\nAnd other historical Gurdwaras of Sikhism.\n\n\n\n\nThere are two Police stations in Nankana Sahib \n\n\n"}
{"id": "11638985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11638985", "title": "Neofiti", "text": "Neofiti\n\nThe neofiti () were a group of Italian \"anusim\", also known as crypto-Jews, living in Southern Italy.\n\nThe \"neofiti\" were descendants of Jews who were forced to convert to Roman Catholicism in 1493. They continued to secretly practice certain elements of Judaism, as did many of their descendants.\n\nIn the 1490s the Spanish Inquisition ruthlessly hunted the \"neofiti\" and many were tortured and executed, especially in Sicily.\n\nToday, some descendants of \"neofiti\" in Calabria and Apulia have converted back to Judaism and revived their former Jewish congregations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1137789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1137789", "title": "Noaidi", "text": "Noaidi\n\nA noaidi (, , , , , ) is a shaman of the Sami people in the Nordic countries representing an indigenous nature religion. Most \"noaidi\" practices died out during the 17th century, most likely because they resisted Christianisation and the king's authority. Their actions were referred to in courts as \"magic\" or \"sorcery\" (cf. witchcraft). Several Sámi shamanistic beliefs and practices were similar to those of some Siberian cultures.\n\nNoaidis, Sámi shamans, were traditionally the healers and protectors. Noaidis are said to have the role of mediator between humans and the spirits. To undertake this mediation, the noaidi communicated with the spirit world, asking what sacrifice needed to be made by a person so that they might return to good health, be successful in their hunt for food, and even for good weather. Sacrifices were designed by the noaidi to reestablish the balance between the mortal and immortal worlds. Using a traditional drum, which is the most important symbol and tool of the Sámi shaman, the noaide invoked assistance from benevolent spirits and conducted out-of-body travel via the “free soul” with the help of other siida members. The Sámi distinguish between the “free soul” versus the more mundane “body soul”; the “body soul” is unable to traverse the divide separating the spiritual netherworld from the more mundane, corporeal, real world.\n\nA noaidi could engage in any kind of affair that demanded wisdom; it is said they took payments for their services. The activities included healing people, helping children, making decisions and protecting reindeer, which represented the most important source of food and were also used as tribute payment.\n\nThe sources from which we learn about noaidi are court protocols, tales, excavated tools (such as belts), and missionary reports. That noaidis were punished and in some cases sentenced to death for their \"sorcery\" should perhaps rather be interpreted as an attempt to obliterate opposition to the crown. There was by law no freedom of religion during most of the 19th century and before, as the Lutheran Swedish church was the only allowed religion (except for some foreign temporary residents). Swedish priests supported conviction of noaidis for sorcery.\n\nIn the Sami shamanistic form of worship drumming and traditional chanting (joiking) were of singular importance. Some of joiks were sung on shamanistic rites; this memory is conserved also in a folklore text (a shaman story).\n\nRecently, joiks have been sung in two different styles, one of which is sung only by young people. The other joik may be identified with the “mumbling” joik, resembling chants or magic spells.\n\nSeveral surprising characteristics of joiks can be explained by comparing the music ideals, as observed in joiks and contrasted to music ideals of other cultures. In some instances, joiks mimic natural sounds. This can be contrasted to other goals, namely overtone singing and bel canto, both of which exploit human speech organs to achieve “superhuman” sounds. Overtone singing and the imitation of sounds in shamanism are present in many other cultures as well. Sound imitation may serve other purposes such as games and other entertainment as well as important practical purposes such as luring animals during hunts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903292", "title": "Ofudesaki", "text": "Ofudesaki\n\nThe Ofudesaki (おふでさき, \"Tip of the Writing Brush\") is the most important scripture in Tenrikyo. It is one of Tenrikyo's three scriptures (\"sangenten\" 三原典), along with the \"Mikagura-uta\" (\"The Songs for the Service\") and the \"Osashizu\" (\"Divine Directions\"). A 17-volume collection of 1,711 \"waka\" poems, the Ofudesaki was composed by the foundress of Tenrikyo, Miki Nakayama, from 1869 to 1882.\n\nThe name \"Ofudesaki\" can be split into three smaller segments. \"O\" is an honorific prefix, \"fude\" translates to \"brush,\" and \"saki\" translates to \"tip.\" Thus, the Ofudesaki has been referred to in English as \"The Tip of the Writing Brush.\" It was even once referred to as \"The Book of Revelations\" in early English Tenrikyo literature. It is a convention in Tenrikyo literature to write \"Ofudesaki\" in hiragana (おふでさき) as opposed to kanji.\n\nNakayama's intention for the Ofudesaki is explained in the scripture itself:<poem>This is a world constructed on reason. So I shall press upon you everything with the reason in verse. / \nI shall press, though not by force or word of mouth. I shall press by the tip of My writing brush. /\nIt is all very well if you err in nothing. But should you err, I shall inform you by verse. (Ofudesaki I:21–23)\n\nThe main theme of the Ofudesaki has been described as \"a development toward the perfection of \"Tsutome\", the Service, through which, alone, human salvation can be realized.\" To that end, the Ofudesaki addresses other themes such as the purpose of human existence, the definition of good and evil, the cause of illness, the relationship between God, humans, and the universe, socio-ethical principles, and eschatology. \n\nThe Ofudesaki addresses these themes in different ways. Sometimes the verses employ simple metaphors and allegories. Other times the verses are instructions originally intended for specific people in Miki Nakayama's day.\n\nThe inscription of Part I of the Ofudesaki reads, \"From the 1st month in the 2nd year of Meiji, the year of the Serpent\", which means that the composition of the Ofudesaki began sometime in 1869 according to the Gregorian calendar. This year saw the end of the Boshin War, a civil war between the ruling forces of the Tokugawa shogunate and those seeking to return political power to the Imperial Court, and the beginning of the Meiji Restoration, a period of modernization and reform for the Empire of Japan. \n\nThe inscription continues with the words, \"An old woman of 72 years.\" The ‘old woman’ refers to Miki Nakayama, who at that point had been allegedly possessed by a god for about three decades. In 1853, she had the Nakayama family's main house dismantled and sold and had the remaining rice fields mortgaged a couple of years later. In 1864, a carpenter from Ichinomoto Village named Izo Iburi visited Miki Nakayama, and as a gesture of gratitude, constructed a place where followers could pray, laying down the foundation for the structure known today as Tenrikyo Church Headquarters. From 1866 to 1869, she taught her followers a prayer service.\n\nAn oral account of the writing of the Ofudesaki has been recorded in a Tenrikyo supplementary text (\"jungenten\" 準原典) known as the \"Anecdotes of Oyasama.\" A follower named Shirobei Umetani recalled Miki Nakayama saying:\nYou know there is the \"Fudesaki\". What do you think of it? The seventeen parts of the \"Fudesaki\" were not completed in a short while. God spoke into my ears, saying, ‘Do not look at any writings, even the charge book from a bean curd shop.’ I wondered why. Then God said, ‘Brush, brush, take up the brush.’ I took the brush up for the first time at New Year’s when I became seventy-two years old. And when I took the brush up, My hand moved by itself. From heaven, God did it. After what was to be done was finished, My hand became numb and it could not be moved. God said, ‘Calm Your mind, and read this. If You find something You cannot understand, ask Me.’ I added brush strokes when I found something I could not understand. That is the \"Fudesaki\".\n\nThe seventeen parts of the Ofudesaki were written as follows (brackets indicate that the date is based on assumption since no date is inscribed):\n\nNakayama composed over half of the total number of Ofudesaki verses (i.e. Part III to Part XI) in the years 1874–1875.\n\nIn addition to the manuscripts kept at her residence, Nakayama produced manuscripts that were given to individual followers. The term \"exterior volume\" (\"gesatsu\") comes from an inscription written by the Maegawas (Miki's birth family) in Sanmaiden Village on the cover of one of the manuscript portions that Nakayama gave to them on 18 June 1874. She presented them to the Maegawas as a gesture of gratitude for making the \"kagura\" masks that were to be used in the prayer service she taught her followers. The inscription reads, \"An exterior volume. Written by God. Written in Her seventy-seventh year.\" The Maegawas used the term to distinguish the portions they received from Nakayama from the original Ofudesaki kept at her residence, even though their portions were also in Nakayama's handwriting. The second Shinbashira (leader of Tenrikyo), Shozen Nakayama, later adopted the term to refer to the fourteen verses that were written in Miki Nakayama's handwriting and given away. Though these verses are considered to be the unnumbered verses of the Ofudesaki, they are not published with the Ofudesaki.\n\nThough Miki Nakayama had completed the Ofudesaki in 1882, the scriptures were not printed until 1928. Until then the Ofudesaki was only available in the form of hand-copied manuscripts.\n\nIn March 1883, the local police visited the Nakayama residence and attempted to confiscate the Ofudesaki manuscripts so that they could be destroyed. However, Shinnosuke Nakayama, the grandson of Miki, claimed that two women at the residence, Omasa and Osato, had already burned them in compliance with a patrolman's order. Thereby the Ofudesaki manuscripts remained intact, and have survived to this day.\nIn 1939, Tenrikyo Church Headquarters announced the change of its doctrine and ritual, under pressure to comply with the demands of State Shinto. Copies of the Ofudesaki and the Osashizu (Divine Directions) were recalled from local churches, and the Ofudesaki was not allowed to be preached until the end of World War II. With the adoption of the Constitution of Japan in 1947 and the establishment of freedom of religion in Japan, Tenrikyo Church Headquarters was legally allowed to restore its scriptures to their original form and disseminate them freely. On 26 July 1948, an Ofudesaki with interpretive explanations was published and offered to all local churches.\n\nSince then the Ofudesaki has been translated into a number of languages. A trial translation was published in series in the journal \"Fukugen\" from 1946–7. The first edition English translation was published in 1971, and the sixth edition (the most recent as of 2017) was published in 1993. A volume containing the English (sixth edition), Japanese, and romanization (2nd edition) was published in 1998.\n\nThe verses of the Ofudesaki are generally in a traditional poetic style known as \"waka\". A \"waka\" poem contains thirty-one syllables and is subdivided into two lines. The Ofudesaki is mostly written in a Japanese phonetic syllabary (a precursor to modern \"hiragana\") and employs relatively few \"kanji\" (only forty-nine distinct characters).\n\nNakayama wrote the Ofudesaki in her native language and dialect, the Japanese language in a dialect called \"Yamato kotoba\" or the \"language of the Yamato region.\" Her script seems to be consistent with how rural people in Japan wrote during the late Edo period, when the standardized writing system had yet to be widely adopted. However, as of 2010, a detailed grammatical study has yet to be made of the language of the Ofudesaki.\n\nCommentaries so far have tended to explain specific terms from the perspective that the language of the Ofudesaki is not significantly different from the commonly spoken language of the day, meaning that it suffices to understand the Ofudesaki as a reader of that place and time would have understood it. However, the Ofudesaki contains certain syntactical features that require particular care in interpretation, such as non-indicative moods that may be referred to as subjunctive, optative, or imperative. For example, there are verses that should be construed as an imperative, which indicates a command, but are constructed as an optative expressing a wish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288428", "title": "Ontario Khalsa Darbar", "text": "Ontario Khalsa Darbar\n\nThe Ontario Khalsa Darbar is a notable Sikh Gurudwara (place of worship) in Mississauga, Ontario. One of the largest Sikh Gurudwara in Canada, it attracts tens of thousands of celebrants for major religious festivals. A gurdwara (, ' or , '), meaning \"the doorway to the Guru\", is the Sikh place of worship and may be referred to as a Sikh temple.\n\nIt was officially started in 1978 in a small trailer. Steadily, more and more money was raised and land was purchased and a building was created in 1988. Its new location is at 7080 Dixie Road, Mississauga, Ontario. The opening ceremony in 1989 drew a crowd of 10,000.\n\nDuring the 1990s more land was bought and an outdoor stadium was built. Hardial Dhir Architect was chosen to reconstruct and design the community centre and additions to the Gurdwara. The Gurdwara is the central Gurdwara in the Greater Toronto Area.\n\nIn the mid to late 1990s the old building was getting overcrowded so a 6 million dollar project was announced to build a large extension. Much money was raised, however the building still gets overcrowded on special days like Bandhi Chhor (\"Release from Confinement\", held according to Nanakshahi calendar on same date as Diwali) and Vaisakhi and New Year (December 31). In 2001 the Nagar Kirtan (which celebrates Viasakhi) had a crowd of nearly 100,000 people.\n\nIn 2003 the Bandhi Chhor celebration drew in a crowd of over 40,000 people. This is when the Gurdwara got a lot of popularity. It has an atmosphere like if it is a major Gurdwara in India. A new plan in 2004 was announced to build a $3 million parking lot. This parking lot would be filled with many historical paintings and information boards.\n\nThe temple has been the subject of several controversies such as a donation to the African National Congress in 1990, a dispute over whether Sikh marriages can be performed in a hotel which serves alcohol and meat, and when a Sikh priest stayed at the temple, thus defying a deportation order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4635596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4635596", "title": "Our Lady of Guadalupe in Extremadura", "text": "Our Lady of Guadalupe in Extremadura\n\nThe shrine to Our Lady of Guadalupe was the most important Marian shrine in the medieval kingdom of Castile. It is revered in the Monastery of Santa María de Guadalupe, in today's Cáceres province of the Extremadura autonomous community of Spain.\n\nOur Lady of Guadalupe is one of three Black Madonnas in Spain. The statue was canonically crowned on 12 October 1928 by Pope Pius XI with a crown designed and crafted by Father Felix Granda and crowned with the attendance of King Alfonso XIII of Spain.\n\nIt should not be confused with Our Lady of Guadalupe, enshrined in the Basilica of Guadalupe in Mexico.\n\nThe shrine houses a statue reputed to have been carved by Luke the Evangelist and given to Saint Leander, archbishop of Seville, by Pope Gregory I. According to local legend, when Seville was taken by the Moors in 712, a group of priests fled northward and buried the statue in the hills near the Guadalupe River in Extremadura. At the beginning of the 14th century, the Virgin appeared one day to a humble cowboy named Gil Cordero who was searching for a missing animal in the mountains. Cordero claimed that the Virgin Mary had appeared to him and ordered him to ask priests to dig at the site of the apparition. Excavating priests rediscovered the hidden statue and built a small shrine around it which evolved into the great Guadalupe monastery.\n\nThe polychromed cedar sculpture is just over two feet in height. It is a Black Madonna, in the style known as \"Sedes Sapientiae\" or \"Throne of Wisdom\", with the Christ Child seated on Mary's lap. This genre spread from Northern Europe between the eleventh and thirteenth centuries.\n\nSince at least the late 14th century, the wooden figures have been clothed in embroidered vestments, allowing only their faces and hands to appear. Costly robes, suitable for the Queen of Heaven, were often elaborately stitched in gold thread and set with precious gems, attesting to both the honor due the Virgin and the wealth of the donors. The underlying sculpture is rarely seen.\n\nPilgrims began arriving in 1326, and in 1340, King Alfonso XI took a personal interest in the shrine's development, and had a Hieronymite monastery built there, attributing his victory over the Moors at the Battle of Rio Salado to the Virgin's intercession. By 1386, copies of the statue were venerated in satellite chapels. Our Lady of Guadalupe, along with Santiago de Compostela and Nuestra Señora del Pilar became rallying points for the Christian Spaniards in their reconquista of Iberia.\n\nIt was at the monastery that the Spanish monarchs Isabel and Ferdinand signed documents that authorized the first voyage of Christopher Columbus to the New World in 1492. Due to the royal prerogatives granted by the Catholic Monarchs and their successors, the monastery of Guadalupe became one of the wealthiest ecclesiastical establishments in the country. Upon his return from America, Columbus went to the Monastery of Our Lady of Guadalupe to give thanks to God, for a safe voyage.\n\nThe Monastery of Our Lady of Guadalupe is a declared World Heritage site.\n\nLoboc, in the Philippines, has documented many miracles attributed to the intercession of its Virgen de Guadalupe. The most important of these happened on November 26, 1876 and is immortalized in a painting on the ceiling of Loboc Church by Cebuano painter Ray Francia. In this miracle narrative, a flood reached Loboc, wreaking havoc on the whole town and submerging the altar of Loboc Church. Miraculously, the waters stopped at the base of the image of the Virgen de Guadalupe and it remained unharmed by the flood. In addition, the citizens of Loboc, despite the extent of the flood, escaped unharmed and no casualties are recorded.\n\nMany devotees from other places in the Philippines also attend the Maytime festival to honor the Loboc Virgen de Guadalupe and to ask for her miraculous intercession. Childless women go to Loboc in May to dance the bolibongkingking before the Virgin's image. Those who have had a child following the pilgrimage to Loboc return to her shrine to devote their child, to God through the prayers of the Virgen de Guadalupe, to the Virgin. Some, whose prayers have been answered return to Loboc in thanksgiving and present new vestments and metal ornaments to the Virgen de Guadalupe, the devotional patroness of Loboc.\n\nThe people of Loboc honor the Virgen de Guadalupe every 24 May. During this festival Lobocanons celebrate the feast with music and merrymaking. The celebrations start nine-days prior to the May 24 feast with the Gozos or a ballad of praises to the Blessed Virgin Mary sung in vernacular or Latin before the start of novena masses.\n\nOn the eve of the feast day of the Virgen de Guadalupe, a fluvial parade takes place in the Loboc River. During the activity, the image is brought on a floating restaurant while Marian songs, marches and processional hymns are played. Dignitaries from both church and state participate in the procession to relive the moment when in the 1840s a cholera epidemic ceased when Lobocanons brought the image of the Virgen de Guadalupe on a fluvial procession.\n\nDerived from the sounds of indigenous musical instruments used, the drums (bolibong) and gongs (kingking), the Bolibongkingking Festival is celebrated during the feast proper of the Virgen de Guadalupe. Believed to be both a healing ritual and dance of thanksgiving, the devotees of the Blessed Mother dance to the rhythm of drums and gongs before her image swaying their hands and lifting their petitions or thanksgiving to God through the intercession of the Virgen de Guadalupe.\n"}
{"id": "726248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=726248", "title": "Papal oath (traditionalist Catholic)", "text": "Papal oath (traditionalist Catholic)\n\nWhile a papal oath can be any oath taken by a pope, such as that which Pope Leo III took on 23 December 800 at a council held in Rome in the presence of Charlemagne declaring himself innocent of the charges brought against him, the term is used in particular for the \"Papal Oath\" that some Traditionalist Catholics say was taken by the popes of the Catholic Church, starting with Pope Saint Agatho who was elected on 27 June 678. They claim that over 180 popes, down to and including Pope Paul VI, swore this oath during their papal coronations. Pope John Paul I, Pope John Paul II, Pope Benedict XVI, and Pope Francis who had no coronation ceremonies, did not take the oath, and some Traditionalists interpret this fact negatively, even to the point of declaring them to be false popes.\n\nThey claim that by this oath the popes swore never to innovate or change anything that has been handed down to them. This coronation oath is at times confused with the oath against modernism that Pope Pius X mandated for those taking up certain offices in the Catholic Church. There is no evidence that any pope took such an oath during his coronation ceremony.\n\nThe \"Papal Oath\" that Traditionalists speak of appears to be loosely based on the text of the profession of faith, addressed to Saint Peter, included, as part of another document, in the \"Liber Diurnus Romanorum Pontificum\", a collection of formularies for correspondence or decrees, some of which may even date from before the time of Pope Gregory I (590-604), while others may be of the time of the three existing manuscripts, and so of the 8th or 9th century.\n\nWhile the collection was used in the papal chancery until the 11th century, the content of the document that contains the profession of faith shows that this formulary can have been used only at some time or times in the short period between the election of Pope Conon (686–687) and that of Pope Zachary (741–752); and the profession of faith speaks of the Third Council of Constantinople (680–681) as having been held recently (\"nuper\"), making the beginning of that period the most likely.\n\nThe profession of faith explicitly speaks of Pope Agatho (678–681) as already dead.\n\nFollowing is the text of what the traditionalist Catholics call the Papal Oath or Papal Coronation Oath:\nThe only historical source claimed for this \"Papal Oath\" is Migne's \"Patrologia Latina\", referring, it can be supposed, to volume 105, columns 40-44. \n\"Patrologia Latina\", 105, columns 9-188 reproduces, with notes and commentary, the full text of Garnier's 1680 edition of the \"Liber Diurnus Romanorum Pontificum\". The article in \"The Catholic Encyclopedia\" on this book states that Garnier's edition \"is very inaccurate, and contains arbitrary alterations of the text\"; it describes as the first good edition the one published by Eugène de Rozière in 1869. Later editions have been able to take into account not only the oldest surviving manuscript, which is preserved in the Vatican and is described on the website of the Vatican Secret Archives, but also two other manuscripts of slightly later date, which were rediscovered, one in 1889, the other in 1937. The \"Liber Diurnus Romanorum Pontificum\" is in fact a \"miscellaneous collection of ecclesiastical formularies used in the papal chancery until the 11th century\". It then fell into disuse and was soon forgotten and lost, until a manuscript containing it was discovered in the 17th century.\n\nIts rediscovery in the 17th century caused surprise precisely because the text declared acceptance of the condemnations of the Sixth General Council, which were directed also against Pope Honorius I. In the opinion of one writer, the oath had the effect of confirming that an ecumenical council could condemn a Pope for open heresy and that Honorius was justly condemned.\n\nThe traditionalists' Papal Oath, if indeed based on the text in the \"Liber Diurnus\", is a serious mistranslation. Much of it has no basis whatever in the historical document, including the paragraphs \"I swear ... defined and declared\" and \"Accordingly, without exclusion ... blasphemous venture\" and the phrase \"I will put outside the Church whoever dares to go against this oath, may it be somebody else or I\".\n\nThe traditionalists' Papal Oath is addressed to Jesus Christ, and presents the Pope as his successor, as Vicar of God, endowed with a power of revelation (not just of maintaining an existing revelation) on a par (or almost) with Christ's, and as a \"successor\" of Tradition.\n\nNone of these ideas are present in the \"Liber Diurnus\" text.\n\nThe Traditionalist Catholic sources that give what they call the Papal Oath also claim, without citing any source, that all popes from Saint Agatho, who in the \"Liber Diurnus\" text is spoken of as already dead, to Pope Paul VI pronounced this text in the course of their coronation ceremonies. The fact that the \"Liber Diurnus\" was forgotten for centuries is a difficulty against this account.\n\nThe detailed account of the coronation of the 19th-century Pope Leo XIII that can be consulted at this site makes no mention of the taking of this particular oath, or of any coronation oath, by the Pope.\n\nIn fact, all evidence of papal coronations, including that of Pope Paul VI on 30 June 1963, which was the last, excludes the taking of any oath by the Pope in the course of the ceremony. The claim that Pope Agatho and his immediate successors took the alleged oath at their coronation ceremonies is also evidently false: popes of that time had neither crown nor, in consequence, coronation (see Papal Tiara).\n\nThe Constitutio Romana included an oath of fealty taken by the Pope to the Holy Roman Emperor, beginning in 824 until no later than 884.\n\nMore closely related to the subject of this article is the \"profession of the supreme pontiff\" that the 23rd session (26 March 1436) of the Council at Basel decreed should be made by anyone elected Pope as a condition for his election to be valid.\n\nBy this profession, the Pope was to declare adherence to the eight \"universal\" councils (down to the Fourth Council of Constantinople) and the later \"general\" councils (down to that of Basel, to which the Pope would thereby be obliged to grant recognition).\n\nThe profession in the \"Liber Diurnus Romanorum Pontificum\", a book that had fallen out of use four centuries before, declared acceptance only of the first six ecumenical councils.\n\nThe Council of Basel wished the newly elected Pope to read this profession again at his first public consistory, and it was to be read to him every year on the occasion of the anniversary of his election or coronation.\n\nThis \"profession of the supreme pontiff\" seems to be referred to as an oath in the formula that each cardinal was also called upon to swear before voting in the conclave. The cardinals were to declare: \"I shall not make obeisance to anyone elected as pontiff before he takes the \"oath\" prescribed by this council of Basel.\" The text of the \"profession of the supreme pontiff\" and of the oath of the cardinals can be consulted on the Internet.\n\nAntipope Amadeus VIII, Duke of Savoy, made the profession drawn up by the Council of Basel; but as none of the recognized Popes ever made it, there is no justification for calling it a papal oath, still less for referring to it as \"the Papal Oath\".\n\n"}
{"id": "19720856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19720856", "title": "Prayer walk", "text": "Prayer walk\n\nA prayer walk is an activity that consists in walking and praying at the same time. It's done not for the physical benefit but for the spiritual exercise, either publicly functioning also as a demonstration or rally (to let other people know the group is praying), or quietly in sight of the subject. For instance, a person or group may be praying for a town or city, and walk the streets of the city while praying, either out loud, or in silence.\n\n"}
{"id": "25912822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25912822", "title": "Psilocybe laurae", "text": "Psilocybe laurae\n\nPsilocybe laurae is a species of mushroom in the Strophariaceae family. The mushroom contains the medicinal compound psilocybin.\n\n"}
{"id": "40810442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40810442", "title": "Relics associated with Buddha", "text": "Relics associated with Buddha\n\nAccording to Mahaparinibbana Sutta, after his death, the Buddha was cremated and the ashes divided among his followers.\n\nOriginally his ashes were to go only to the Shakya clan, to which Buddha belonged; however, six clans and a king, demanded the body relics. To avoid fighting, a Brahmin Drona divided the relics into ten portions, eight from the body relics, one from the ashes of Buddha's cremation pyre and one from the pot used to divide the relics, which he kept for himself. After The Buddha's \"Parinibbāna\", his relics were enshrined and worshipped in stupas by the royals of eight countries: to Ajatasattu, king of Magadha; to the Licchavis of Vaishali; to the Sakyas of Kapilavastu; to the Bulis of Allakappa; to the Koliyas of Ramagrama; to the brahmin of Vethadipa; to the Mallas of Pava; and to the Mallas of Kushinagar\n\nA stupa is a monument specifically to house such relics. Often they were enclosed in caskets (such as the Kanishka casket or the Bimaran casket).\n\nThe relics were later dug up by Ashoka, and used the relics (said to have been divided into 84,000 portions) and had stupas built over them throughout the region he rules. Many of the remains were taken to other countries. The Ashokavadana narrates how Ashoka redistributed Buddha's relics across 84,000 stupas, with the distribution of the relics and construction of the stupas performed by Yakshas.\n\nWhen the Chinese pilgrims Fa-hien and Hiuen Tsang visited India centuries later, they reported most of ancient sites were in ruin. \n\nThe \"Lokapannatti\" (11th/12th century) tells the story of King Ajatashatru of Magadha who gathered the Buddha's relics and hid them in an underground stupa. The Buddha's relics were protected by spirit-powered mechanical robots (bhuta vahana yanta) from the kingdom of Roma visaya until they were disarmed by King Ashoka. \n\nThe Mahaparinirvana sutra says that of the Buddha's four eye teeth (canines), one was worshipped in Indra's Heaven, the second in the city of Ghandara, the third in Kalinga, and the fourth in Ramagrama by the king of the Nagas. Annually in Sri Lanka and China, tooth relics would be paraded through the streets. In the past relics have had the legal right to own property; and the destruction of stupas containing relics was a capital crime viewed as murder of a living person. A southeast Asian tradition says that after his parinirvana the gods distributed the Buddha's 800,000 body and 900,000 head hairs throughout the universe. In Theravada according to the 5th century Buddhaghosa possessing relics was one of the criteria in Theravada for what constituted a proper monastery. The adventures of many relics are said to have been foretold by Buddha, as they spread the dharma and gave legitimacy to rulers.\n\nIt is said all the Buddha's relics will one day gather at the Bodhi tree where he attained enlightenment and will then form his body sitting cross legged and performing the twin miracle. It is said the disappearance of the relics at this point will signal the coming of Maitreya Buddha. In the Nandimitravadana translated by Xuanzang it is said that the Buddha's relics will be brought to parinirvana by sixteen great arhats and enshrined in a great stupa. That stupa will then be worshipped until it sinks into the earth down to the golden wheel underlying the universe. The relics are not destroyed by fire in this version but placed in a final reliquary deep within the earth, perhaps to appear again.\n\nPrevious incarnations of the Buddha also left relics; in the Buddhavamsa it mentions that the Sobhita, Paduma, Sumedha, Atthadassi, Phussa, Vessabhu, and Konagamana buddhas have had their relics dispersed.\n\nThe relics of Buddha's disciples like Sariputta and Maugglayana, were also preserved enshrined in stupas (as in Sanchi).\n\nSometime in the middle of the fifth century the Chinese pilgrim Daorong traveled to Afghanistan visiting pilgrimage sites. In Nagaharahara was a piece of bone from the top of Buddha's skull four inches long. Also in the city was an enshrined staff, and a jeweled reliquary containing some teeth and hair. A shadow was said to have been projected onto a rock wall, said to have belonged to Buddha, as well as a set of foot prints, and a site venerated for being where Buddha washed his robe. A temple said to have been built by Buddha is sinking into the ground here, with what is said to be his writing on the wall. A tooth of the Buddha was kept in Baktra. In Bamyan a tooth of Buddha was stored along with the tooth of a cakravartin king. An early masterpiece of the Greco Buddhist art of Ghandara, and one of the earliest representations of the Buddha, the Bimaran casket was discovered in a stupa near Jalabad in eastern Afghanistan. Although the casket bears an inscription saying it contained some of the relics of the Buddha; no relics were discovered when the box was opened.\n\nBuddha's first disciples Trapusa and Bahalika received eight strands of hair from him which they brought to their home town of Balkh and enshrined in a golden stupa by the gate.\n\nLu Mountain temple, East of Los Angeles California has recently received over 10,000 sarira including two teeth and one hair believed to belong to Gautama Buddha. Most of these relics were donated from monasteries across Vietnam.\n\nA Buddha relic is kept in Buddha Dhatu Jadi Bangladesh beneath four Buddha statues. The Buddha’s Dhatu was given by Ven. U Paññya Jota Mahathero in 1994 by the State Sangha Maha Nayaka Committee of Myanmar.\n\nRingsels from Buddha, Nagarjuna, Longchenpa, Marpa, and Milarepa visited Chubachu Bhutan from Bodhgaya Sri Lanka, in October 2013.\n\nA Buddha relic was enshrined at Sakyaminu Chedai 2002 Royal Place in Oudong. Fifty years earlier, this relic was transported from Sri Lanka to Phnom Penh, but was transported again after King Sihanouk voiced concerns about urban decay surrounding Phnom Penh. King Sihanouk of Cambodia received a Buddha relic from the French in 1952. Relics present from the 1950s were recently stolen in Odong mountain and remain missing.\n\nA golden urn said to contain relics of Buddha was snatched from a mountain shrine, sparking a nationwide manhunt, and was recovered on February 5, 2014.\n\nThe disappearance of the urn - believed to contain hair, teeth and bones of Buddha and several small statues - came to light in December and prompted an outcry in the Buddhist-majority country.\n\n\"Everything is still in the urn,\" national police spokesman Kirt Chantharith told a news agency.\n\nAccording to legend, the first Buddha relic in China appeared in a vase in 248 C.E. so that Kang Senghui would have something to show a local ruler. The king of Wu Sun Quan would unsuccessfully attempt to destroy the tooth, by subjecting it to various tests. In legends Daoxuan is attributed with the transmission of the Buddha relic Daoxuans tooth, one of the four tooth relics enshrined in the capital of Chang'an during the Tang dynasty. He is said to have received the relic during a night visit from a divinity associated with Indra. The emperor Taizong tried to burn a tooth relic but was unable to do so.\n\nAccording to his biography upon his return in 645 C.E. Xuanzang returned from his seventeen-year-long pilgrimage to India with, \"over six hundred Mahayana and Hinayana texts, seven statues of the Buddha and more than a hundred sarira relics.\"\n\nEmperor Wen and Empress Wu of the Sui both venerated Buddha relics. Daoxuan’s Ji gujin fodao lunheng (Collection of [the Documents Related to] the Buddho-Daoist Controversies in the Past and the Present; completed 661) recounts that shortly after being born Yang Jian; was given to Buddhist \"divine nun\" until the age of 13. Yang Jian, after becoming the Emperor Sui Wendi; lead three Buddha relic redistribution campaigns in 601 602 and 604. The relics were enshrined across 107 pagodas; along with pictures of the divine nun.\n\nIn 2010 remains of Gautama Buddha's skull were enshrined at Qixia Temple in Nanjing. The partial bone had been held in the Pagoda of King Ashoka, constructed in 1011 under the former Changgan Temple of Nanjing. In 1987 a chamber was unearthed below Famen temple and a finger bone said to belong to Gautama Buddha was discovered. In 2003 the finger bone was one of 64 culturally significant artifacts officially prohibited from leaving China for exhibitions. In 2009, the relic was enshrined in the world's tallest stupa recently built within the domains of Famen Temple.\n\nTwo bone fragments believed to belong to Gautama Buddha are enshrined at Yunju temple. According to Tang Dynasty records, China had 19 pagodas of King Ashoka holding Sakyamuni's relics. Seven of these pagodas are believed to have been found. Currently the tooth relic is kept in Beijing while the knuckle of the middle finger is at Xi'an city Shaanxi province.\n\nIn 1072 the Japanese pilgrim Jojin visited the Buddha's tooth in Kaifeng; an imperial emissary had to open the door to the build that housed it in the hall of seven treasures.\n\nThe Beijin tooth was discovered in 1900 when it was discovered in the ruins of Zhaoxian pagoda outside of Beijing. The monks of the nearby Lingguang monastery found a box in the rubble with the inscription \"The Holy Tooth Relics of Sakyamuni Buddha\", written by Shan-hui in 963 C.E. They kept the molar inside until at their monastery until 1955 when they gave it to the Buddhist Association of China. The Burmese ambassador was asked whether Burma could have the relic; to which the Chinese premier Zhou Enlai who offered. When a delegation came to retrieve the tooth it was now housed in a golden jeweled casket instead of glass and would only be loaned to Burma for eight months. The Beijing tooth temple was reconstructed in 1966 in front of Buddhist delegations from 10 countries.\n\nBuddha belonged to one of these eight families the Sakyas; who had one eighth of his relics stored at Kapilavastu. According to the PBS series Secrets of the Dead, an urn containing these was discovered in a stupa at Piprahwa near Birdpur [historical British variant as Birdpore], a Buddhist sacred structure in the Basti district of Uttar Pradesh in India by amateur archaeologist William Claxton Peppe in 1898. Piprahwa became identified by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) as Kapilavastu. In 1971 K.M. Srivastava continued excavating the site and discovered 22 bones in two soapstone urns, dating them to the 5th century BCE. The report on these findings was filed 20 years later in 1991. Piprahwa as Kapilavastu is contested by Nepal who believe Tilaurakot to be Kapilavastu; however the relics were displayed by Sri Lanka in 1978.\n\nMortal remains of Buddha belonging to third or fourth century were found during an excavation in 1962-1963 at Devni Mori which is a Buddhist archaeological site near Shamalaji in Gujarat. Ashes of Buddha were found in a gold bottle wrapped in silk cloth within a copper bowl that was kept in a casket. The 1,700-year-old casket’s inscription in Brahmi script mentions ‘Dashabala Sharira Nilaya’ — which stands for 'abode of the bodily relics of Lord Buddha'. The remains are preserved in the Museum of Department of Archaeology and Ancient History of the Faculty of Arts, Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda - Vadodara.\nWhen the first dome of the Global Vipassana Pagoda was constructed in October 2006 in Mumbai; bone relics of Gautama Buddha were enshrined in the central locking stone of the dome, making it the world's largest structure containing relics of the Buddha. The relics were originally found in the stupa at Bhattiprolu, Guntur district, Andhra Pradesh, South India. They have been donated by the Mahabodhi Society of India and the prime minister of Sri Lanka to be kept at the Global Vipassana Pagoda. A casket was discovered in Lalitgiri in Orissa believed to contain bones of Buddha.\n\nThe Culvmsa relays the legend Silakala and King Moggallana who went to India in exile. Silakala and became a novice at Bodhgaya where he was given a hair relic; Moggallana took this relic back to Sri Lanka and placed it in a crystal casket; and instigated a regular festival in honor to the hair.\n\nAlthough king Bimbisaras let the women in his harem visit Buddha in his monastery in the evenings; the women wanted a hair and nail stupa they could use to venerate the Buddha any time. After Bimbisara spoke with Buddha who complied with their request.\n\nIn Rajagrha, Buddha went to have his hair shaved, but none of the monks were willing to cut Buddha's hair; so they found a young boy named Upali of the barber cast. In the attempt to cut the hair better he controlled his body posture and breathing going into the fourth level of trance, dhyana. The Buddha's disciple seeing this Ananda took the razor from him; then wondered what to do with the hair; thinking it was an impure thing. Buddha reprimanded him and had Ananda deliver the hair in a pot to the general Gopali who took it into battle, becoming victorious.\n\nAccording to Xuanzang hundreds of thousands of people came every day to venerate a tooth relic in Kanyakubja.\n\nAccording to the Pali Dathavamsa (tooth chronicle) a disciple of Buddha named Khema took a tooth from Buddha's funeral pyre and gave it to Brahmadatta king of Kalinga (India). In Dantapura the tooth is taken by niganthas to king Gushava, then the Hindu emperor Pandu who attempts to destroy it in several different ways. Unable to destroy the tooth the king converts to Buddhism and venerates the tooth.\n\nOne hundred years prior to the visit of Xuanzang the ephthalite huns destroyed a number of relics in Kashmir and Gandhara. To escape one of the purges, a monk fled to India and paid pilgrimage to many sacred sites. One day he encountered a herd of wild elephants. He attempted to hide in a tree but was taken by the elephants to one of their young who had a bamboo splinter in his foot. He treated the elephants wound and it rewarded him with a golden casket containing a tooth of Buddha. On the way back he ferried across a river which threatened to sink them mid way. The passengers determined it was Naga's wanting the buddha relic and convinced the monk to throw the tooth in the river. He would spend the next three years learning the proper rituals to tame Naga; subduing their king and reclaiming the tooth.\n\nBorobudur in Java contains one of the Buddha's relics.\n\nAccording to legend in Japan 552 C.E. there was an attempt to destroy a tooth relic, one of the first of Buddha’s to arrive in the country; it was hit by a hammer into an anvil; the hammer and anvil were destroyed but the tooth was not. On January 15, 593, Soga no Umako ordered relics of Buddha deposited inside the foundation stone under the pillar of a pagoda at Asuka-dera. According to Japanese legends the tooth of Indras heaven would be stolen from Drona's turban by a demon called Sokushikki (demon fleet foot); however he was caught by an even faster divinity and the tooth was given to Indra. Although no mention is made of Xuanzang specifically having a tooth, a Japanese tradition claims one was eventually taken by the monk Gishin and kept in Tendai and Fujiwara.\n\nTongdosa temple, (one of the three Three Jewel Temples of Korea), was founded by Jajang-yulsa after he returned from a pilgrimage to China in 646 AD. The temple houses a robe, begging bowl and a piece of skull said to belong to Buddha. Other temples built by Jajang also house relics. Bongjeongam hermitage is said to possess sarira from Gautama, while Sangwonsa houses bone setting relics. \n\nIt is said that Korean emperor Huizong tried to sink a tooth relic at sea but was unable to do so.\n\nPha That Luang is the most important national symbol of Laos. Buddhist missionaries from the Mauryan Empire are believed to have been sent by the Emperor Ashoka, including Bury Chan or Praya Chanthabury Pasithisak and five Arahata monks who brought a holy relic (believed to be the breast bone) of Buddha to the stupa.\n\nIn 2001, Mahindarama Buddhist Temple, located in George Town, became the first temple in Penang to house the relics of the Buddha. The two bone fragments of the Buddha had been presented to the temple's Chief Monk, Ven. E. Indaratana Maha Thera, while he was in India during the previous year. The relics are currently on display within the temple's main prayer hall.\n\nIn 2012, a small portion of the Buddha's relics was presented by the Thai royal family to Wat Chetawan in Petaling Jaya, Selangor, as a token of goodwill of Thai Buddhists towards Malaysian Buddhists. The relics had been discovered in Uttar Pradesh, India in 1898, before being gifted by India's British authorities to Siam's King Chulalongkorn.\n\nFa Yu Chan Si temples crystal pagoda contains sarira from Gautama Buddha and other Buddhist masters.\n\nIn conjunction with 24 hours Metta around the World 2013, a silver-golden casket containing Gautama Buddha's relics was brought by Ven. Dhammananda from Sri Lanka to be enshrined in Samadhi Vihara, Shah Alam.\n\nAccording to legend, Abtai Sain Khan was given a Buddha relic by the third Dalai Lama. The fourteenth Dalai Lama has prayed for this relic during his visit to Mongolia in 2011; its location was kept a close secret for concern it would be taken by the Soviet government.\n\nThe Shwedagon Pagoda in Myanmar houses 8 strands of Buddha's hair taken by his first 2 disciples Tapussa and Bhallika; to the site where three relics of Buddha's previous incarnations had been enshrined. Shwedagon was created with the help of the King of Okkalapa and the Sule nat (spirit)s. Sule Pagoda is also said to contain one of the Buddha's hairs.\n\nThe Kanishka casket is said to have contained three bone fragments of the Buddha, which were forwarded to Burma by the British following the excavation, where they still remain in U Khanti's \"dezaung\" (hall). \n\nThe Uppatasanti Pagoda also holds a tooth relic from China.\n\nThe Chakesadhatuvamsa, or chronicle of the six hair relics of the Buddha, was written in Myanmar. The text says that Buddha gave six hairs to disciples at Venuvana in Rajagrha. These were given to 6 bordering countries who had never seen the Buddha. The stories say that when the Buddha came to Mon State to give sermons, he gave six of his hairs to hermits from Kyaiktiyo, Zinkyaik (to Tissa), Mount Zwegabin (to Thiha), Kaylartha, Kyaikdaeyone and Myathabeik. A pair of belu brothers from Kyaikhtisaung also received a hair. All the hermits and belus enshrined the hair in great stones. \nBurmese and Sri Lankan tradition says that Trapusa and Bhallika lost some of the hair relics to the Naga king Jayesana; who took them to worship in his undersea palace.\n\nThe Hledauk Pagoda in Burma crumbled during an earth quake in 1912; exposing 2 relic chambers. Inside was a vessel containing relics from the Buddha and small figures of bronze representing stages of his lives.\n\nOn his way flying through the air with 499 disciples to Sunaparanta Buddha stopped at Saccabandha where he talked the heretic teacher of the same name into becoming an arhat. On his way home from Sunapranta Buddha stopped by the banks of the Nammada river where he was welcomed by a devote Buddhist naga king who asked for a memento to honor, so he left an impression of his footprint in the river bank. They visited Saccabandha again who asked for something to honor as well; Buddha obliged by pressing his foot into solid stone.\n\nAccording to UNESCO, Ramagrama stupa is the only undisturbed original stupa containing relics of Lord Buddha; built in the 6th century BCE. Nepal believes Tilaurakot to be Kapilavastu, and nominated it along with Lumbini for world heritage status. An excavation at Tilaurakot in 1962 revealed ancient brick structures but no relics. In 1970's thousands of Buddha relics were said to begin growing out of the east side of the stupa of Swayambhunath in Kathmandu. According to Xuanzang, relics of Koṇāgamana Buddha were held in a stupa in Nigalisagar; visited by Ashoka, in what is now southern Nepal.\n\nThe Kanishka stupa in Peshawar, Pakistan has been described as one of the tallest in the world and has been visited by early Chinese Buddhist pilgrims such as Faxian, Sung Yun and Xuanxang. The stupa was excavated in 1908–1909 by a British archaeological mission; where the Kanishka casket was discovered with three small fragments of bone. In peshawar Faxian reported in the fourth century that the Buddha's begging bowl held 4 liters and was made of stone, made of four bowls bestowed upon him by the four guardian gods of the four quarters of mount Vinataka surrounding mount Sumeru. Another legend is of a Yuezhi king who wanted to take away the bowl but could not with the strength of eight elephants, so he constructed a stupa over it.\n\nXuanzang said that the Buddha's begging bowl had found its way to Persia after spending time in many different countries. It is said the bowl will one day be given to Maitreya Buddha. According to Faxian however, Buddha's alms bowl took several hundred years to travel across several countries before being taken by a naga king. The bowl would then reappear at Mount Vinataka, where it would by divided into the original four bowls and given to the four guardian kings to bestow on Maitreya. Maitreya would then press the bowls together forming one again, with the next thousand buddhas repeating this same process; using the same bowl. According to Daoxuan, the Buddha's bowl — given to him at the time he was offered milk rice — was made of clay. It was bestowed by a mountain deity who had been given the bowl by the previous Kassapa Buddha. The bowl was later repaired by Indra and the guardians of the four quarters crafted thousands of stone replicas, which were placed in thousands of stupas all over the world.\n\nIn 2011 the head of the Buddhist Patriarchy of Sri Lanka met with Kirsan Ilyumzhinov to discuss the movement of relics from Sri Lanka to the Republic of Kalmykia. Former president Kirsan Ilyumzhinov will become the next guardian of these Buddha relics.\n\nThe tooth relic is housed in the Buddha Tooth Relic Temple and Museum in the Chinatown district of Singapore. It is claimed the relic was found in a collapsed stupa in Myanmar.\n\nIn the Mahavamsa, Ashoka chooses not to retrieve Buddha relics in the possession of Nagas at Ramagrama. It was said that on his deathbed Buddha told a prophecy that of the eight dronas of his body relics, one would be venerated by the Koliyas of Ramagrama, then the relics would belong to the Nagas until being enshrined in Sri Lanka. Ashoka is told more prophecy by arhats, who speak of the future enshrinement of these relics by king Dutthagamani.\n\nThe two quarts of relics that were enshrined in the village \"Rāmagāma\" were, according to The Buddha's determination, destined to be enshrined in the Great Stūpa Ruvanveli. King Dutugemunu who, on the full-moon day of the month of \"Āsāëha\" (June–July), under the constellation of \"Uttarāsāëha\", would officiate in the ceremony for the enshrining of the relics in the Great Stūpa, worshipped the \"Sangha\" (Order of monks) on the day before the full-moon day, reminded them that tomorrow is the appointed day for the enshrining of the relics and requested them to give him the relics. The Saïgha ordered then the novice Arahant \"Soõuttara\", who was gifted with the six supernormal faculties, to bring the relics, which Arahant \"Soõuttara\" manages to bring and offer to the \"Sangha\".\n\nTradition says that Trapusa and Bahalika visited Sri Lanka and brought a hair relic with them in a golden reliquary to Girihandu. Trapusa and Bhallika had initially been disgusted by the hair and fingernail relics. only after he explains the jataka tale of Sumedha laying his hair at the feet of Dipamkara are they convinced this is meritorious.\n\nBuddha is said to have given hair relics to Maha Sumana the god of Adams peak, which were enshrined at Mahiyangana; he also left a footprint at Sumanakuta.\n\nIn 1561 in Portuguese Goa, a tooth taken from Sri Lanka said to belong to the Buddha was crushed, burned in a brazier then tossed into the river in front of a crowd by archbishop Don Gaspar. Don Juan Dharmapala the Christian king of Kotte claimed to have to Kandy tooth. However, according to the Culavamsa; Konnappu Bandara; who had betrayed the Portuguese also claimed to possess the tooth. He used his possession of the tooth along with his marriage to a Kandyan princess to seize the throne. The celebrated procession of the tooth in Kandy coincides with an earlier celebration dedicated to Vishnu.\n\nKing Devanampiyatissa built Thuparamaya in which was enshrined the collarbone of the Buddha. It is considered to be the first dagoba built in Sri Lanka.\n\nWhen the Danta and Hemamala family arrive in Sri Lanka in 362-409 CE, they deliver one of the four eye teeth relics to King Sirimeghavanna; who places it with the bowl relic. The relics remain together in Anuradhapura for 600 years until being moved to the new capital of Polonnaruva; at which point it becomes the most venerated relic in Sri Lanka. It is believed the bowl produces rainfall, a fourteenth century legend says that king Upatissa put an end to a drought by filling the bowl with water, and sprinkling the ground while following a cart with a golden statue of Buddha. It is said the Buddha's disciple Ananda had done with when Vaisali suffered from famine and pestilence from drought. In the twelfth century at Parakkamabahu's festival for the tooth relic a rain cloud filled the ponds but did not rain on the celebration.\n\nThen king Dutugemunu received from the \"Sangha\" the Buddha's relics upon his head in a casket and departed from the golden pavilion in the midst of manifold offerings and honours made by gods and \"Brahmas\". He circumambulated the relic-chamber three times, entered it from the east, and then laid the relic-casket on a couch of one \"koñi\" worth's silver that was arranged in the north side. An image of the Buddha was then, according to the Buddha's determination, created in the lion's reclining posture (\"sīhaseyya\"), and all the relics were enshrined within that image. When the enshrining of the relics in the Great Stūpa Ruvanveli was completed, the two novices Uttara and Sumana closed the relic-chamber with the stone-blocks that were previously hidden to be used as a lid.\n\nIn the Thupavamsa numerous types of beings attended the enshrinement of the relics into the Mahathupa; including the Naga king Mahakala who until recently guarded them. The relics were to be placed atop a golden throne crafted by Visvakarman the divine artificer; the throne brought by Indra. Brahma offers his invisible umbrella of sovereignty, with the king Dutthagamani offering his own. The arhat Indagutta creates a metal canopy over the universe, so that Mara will not interfere, as monks chanted the sutra pitaka. Dutthagamani ceremoniously enters with the urn atop his head; but as he is about to place the urn on the golden throne, the relics rise into the air and form Buddha, with each of the 32 major signs and 8 lesser signs of a great man. In this form he performs the twin miracle of fire and water, fulfilling the fifth of his death bed resolutions. One hundred and twenty million gods and humans gain arhatship from this experience. The relics return to the urn and they are laid to rest and the chamber sealed with forty meter stone slabs.\n\nThe Piprahwa relics were given to Rama V (the King of Siam) a couple of years after their discovery in 1898, where they still reside. Rama V had \"Phu Khao Thong\", a man-made mountain constructed at Wat Saket. After 1888 the Stupa would house a Buddha relic from Sri Lanka alongside relics from prisoners. Phra Borommathat Chedi is the oldest stupa containing Buddha relics in Thailand. Wat Phra That Doi Suthep was founded after a monk followed a dream and found a shoulder bone that glowed and replicated itself; leading him to believe it was a Buddha relic. (phra that). Wat Com Ping in northern Thailand claims to enshrine over 50,000 buddha relics. Relics of the head were found in Teankam temple, Lampang province in 2007. The temple was built by King Indraditya in the 12th century.\n\nAn exhibit donated by the Dalai Lama features relics from Gautama Buddha as well as 40 other Buddhist masters from India, Tibet and China; taken with him out of Tibet after the 1959 invasion. The exhibit was the idea of Lama Zopa Rinpoche; it started in 2001 and has toured 61 countries.\n\nXa Loi Pagoda served as the headquarters for Buddhism in South Vietnam during the Vietnamese civil war, its construction began in 1956 to house remains of the Buddha. Giác Lâm Pagoda has housed Buddha relics since they were brought to the temple from Sri Lanka by Narada in 1953. Tịnh Xá Trung Tâm founded in 1965 also houses relics.\n\nIt is said the placenta of Buddha ratnavyuha was taken by Brahma to be enshrined in a stupa. When Buddha left the palace to seek enlightenment he severed his hair with a sword. According to theravada sources, throwing his top knot into the air, and says if he is to be Buddha it will remain in the sky. It stays at a height of one league, until it is taken by Indra to Trayastrimsa heaven. Mulasarvastivada Vinaya recounts how a friend of Kasyapa Buddha named Ghatikara gives him a monastric robe, bowl, razor, girdle, needle and water strainer. In another version the bodhisattva encounters this divinity disguised as a hunter and trades him his benares silk robes; which are enshrined in a catiya. Alternatively new robes came to Buddha from ten brothers from Kapulavastu who received hemp robes from their mother, about to parinirvanize they told her to give the robes to the Buddha; foreseeing his birth. The mother gave the robes to her daughter near death; who gave them to a tree spirit to give to the son of Suddhodana. Indra disguises as a hunter, then takes the robes from the tree and gives them to Buddha in exchange for the silk robes; which he enshrines in heaven and dedicates a festival to the robes. The bowl in which Buddha received milk rice after his long fast is said to have floated down the Nairanjana River before sinking down to the naga king Kala putting it with the bowls of the three previous Buddhas.\n\n"}
{"id": "20441674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20441674", "title": "Religion in Venezuela", "text": "Religion in Venezuela\n\nVenezuela, like most South American nations, Christianity is the largest religion, with a predominantly Catholic population. \n\nThe influence of the Catholic Church was introduced in its colonization by Spain. According to a 2011 poll (GIS XXI), 88 percent of the population is Christian, primarily Roman Catholic (71%), and the remaining 17 percent Protestant, primarily Evangelicals (in Latin America Protestants are usually called Evangelicos). The Venezuelans without religion are 8% (atheist 2% and agnostic or indifferent 6%), almost 3% of the population follow other religion (1% of them are of santeria).\n\nThere are small but influential Muslim, Buddhist, and Jewish communities. The Muslim community of about 95,000 is concentrated among persons of Lebanese and Syrian descent living in Nueva Esparta State, Punto Fijo and the Caracas area; Venezuela also has a significant Druze community from the same countries (the current vice president is Druze, showing the small group's influence). Buddhism in Venezuela is practiced by over 52,000 people. The Buddhist community is made up mainly of Chinese, Japanese, and Koreans. There are Buddhist centers in Caracas, Maracay, Mérida, Puerto Ordáz, San Felipe, and Valencia.\nThe Jewish community numbers approximately 13,000 and is mainly concentrated in Caracas.\n\nLDS Church (Mormons) claims 165,527 members (April 2016) mostly in and around Caracas.\n\nVenezuela is also notable for its significant syncretic religious traditions, most notably those revolving around the figures of Maria Lionza and Jose Gregorio Hernandez.\n\nIn Venezuela, a population of Santeria followers has been growing since 2008. The rituals can cost 40,000 bolivars and include the slaughtering of a rooster, a chicken, or a goat.\n\n"}
{"id": "1558883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1558883", "title": "Rinpoche", "text": "Rinpoche\n\nRinpoche, also spelled Rimboche and Rinboqê (), is an honorific term used in the Tibetan language. It literally means \"precious one\", and may be used to refer to a person, place, or thing--like the words \"gem\" or \"jewel\" (Sanskrit \"Ratna\").\nThe word consists of rin(value) and po(nominative suffix) and chen(big).\n\nThe word is used in the context of Tibetan Buddhism as a way of showing respect when addressing those recognized as reincarnated, older, respected, notable, learned and/or an accomplished Lamas or teachers of the Dharma. It is also used as an honorific for abbots of monasteries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13953416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13953416", "title": "Saura (Hinduism)", "text": "Saura (Hinduism)\n\nSaura is a religion and denomination of Hinduism, originating as a Vedic tradition. Followers of Saura worship Surya as the Saguna Brahman. At present the Sauras are a very small movement, much smaller than other larger denominations such as Vaishnavism or Shaivism. There was a rapid decline of the Sauras in the 12th and 13th century CE, due to the Muslim conquests.\n\nSaura followers worship Surya as the Saguna Brahman. The worship of Surya has been mentioned in the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. Adi Shankara included Surya into the forms of Brahman worshipped by the Smartas.\n"}
{"id": "452800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=452800", "title": "Seicho-no-Ie", "text": "Seicho-no-Ie\n\nSeichō no Ie , is a syncretic, monotheistic, New Thought Japanese new religion that has spread since the end of World War II. It emphasizes gratitude for nature, the family, ancestors and, above all, religious faith in one universal God. Seichō no Ie is the world's largest New Thought group. By the end of 2010 it had over 1.6 million followers and 442 facilities, mostly located in Japan.\n\nIn 1930, Masaharu Taniguchi, working as an English translator, published the first issue of what he called his \"non-denominational truth movement magazine\", which he named \"Seichō no Ie\" to help teach others of his beliefs. This was followed by forty volumes of his \"Truth of Life\" philosophy by 1932. Over the next forty years, he published an additional four hundred–odd books and toured many countries in Europe, South America, and North America with his wife Teruko, to lecture on his beliefs personally. Ernest Holmes, founder of Religious Science, and his brother Fenwicke were of great assistance to Taniguchi. Fenwicke traveled to Japan and co-authored several books, with one called \"The Science of Faith\" becoming a cornerstone of the denomination.\n\nTaniguchi died in a Nagasaki hospital on June 17, 1985, at the age of ninety-one. Today the president of Seichō no Ie is Masanobu Taniguchi.\n\nIn the 2000s, Seicho-no-Ie Fundamental Movement seceded from HQ. There are as of 2017 three factions of the original movement. The two largest factions are led by Masanobu Taniguchi the president of Seichō no Ie and a group of elder teachers of Seichō no Ie known as Manabushi leads the other faction. The Manabushi only want to teach the fundamentals taught by the founder: Masaharu Taniguchi. One lone teacher who does not want to confront the current president of Seichō no Ie leads the last group.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26364308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26364308", "title": "Serpents in the Bible", "text": "Serpents in the Bible\n\nSerpents ( \"nāḥāš\") are referred to in both the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament. The symbol of a serpent or snake played important roles in religious and cultural life of ancient Egypt, Canaan, Mesopotamia and Greece. The serpent was a symbol of evil power and chaos from the underworld as well as a symbol of fertility, life and healing. \"Nāḥāš\", Hebrew for \"snake\", is also associated with divination, including the verb form meaning \"to practice divination or fortune-telling\". In the Hebrew Bible, \"Nāḥāš\" occurs in the Torah to identify the serpent in the Garden of Eden. Throughout the Hebrew Bible, it is also used in conjunction with \"saraph\" to describe vicious serpents in the wilderness. The \"tannin\", a dragon monster, also occurs throughout the Hebrew Bible. In the Book of Exodus, the staffs of Moses and Aaron are turned into serpents, a \"nāḥāš\" for Moses, a \"tannin\" for Aaron. In the New Testament, the Book of Revelation makes use of \"ancient serpent\" and \"the Dragon\" several times to identify Satan or the devil. (; ) The serpent is most often identified with the hubristic Satan, and sometimes with Lilith.\n\nThe story of the Garden of Eden and the fall of man represents a tradition among the Abrahamic peoples, with a presentation more or less symbolical of certain moral and religious truths.\n\nIn one of the oldest stories ever written, the Epic of Gilgamesh, Gilgamesh loses the power of immortality, stolen by a snake. The serpent was a widespread figure in the mythology of the Ancient Near East. Ouroboros is an ancient symbol of a serpent eating its own tail that represents the perpetual cyclic renewal of life, the eternal return, and the cycle of life, death and rebirth, leading to immortality.\n\nArchaeologists have uncovered serpent cult objects in Bronze Age strata at several pre-Israelite cities in Canaan: two at Megiddo, one at Gezer, one in the \"sanctum sanctorum\" of the Area H temple at Hazor, and two at Shechem. In the surrounding region, a late Bronze Age Hittite shrine in northern Syria contained a bronze statue of a god holding a serpent in one hand and a staff in the other. In sixth-century Babylon, a pair of bronze serpents flanked each of the four doorways of the temple of Esagila. At the Babylonian New Year festival, the priest was to commission from a woodworker, a metalworker and a goldsmith two images one of which \"shall hold in its left hand a snake of cedar, raising its right [hand] to the god Nabu\". At the tell of Tepe Gawra, at least seventeen Early Bronze Age Assyrian bronze serpents were recovered. The Sumerian fertility god Ningizzida was sometimes depicted as a serpent with a human head, eventually becoming a god of healing and magic.\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible, the Book of Genesis refers to a serpent who triggered the expulsion of Adam and Eve from the Garden in Eden (). \"Serpent\" is also used to describe sea monsters. Examples of these identifications are in the Book of Isaiah where a reference is made to a serpent-like dragon named Leviathan (), and in the Book of Amos where a serpent resides at the bottom of the sea (). \"Serpent\" figuratively describes biblical places such as Egypt (), and the city of Dan (). The prophet Jeremiah also compares the King of Babylon to a \"serpent\" ().\n\nThe Hebrew word \"nahash\" is used to identify the serpent that appears in Genesis 3:1, in the Garden of Eden. In Genesis, the serpent is portrayed as a deceptive creature or trickster, who promotes as good what God had forbidden, and shows particular cunning in its deception. (cf. Gen. 3:4–5 and 3:22) The serpent has the ability to speak and to reason: \"Now the serpent was more subtle (also translated as \"cunning\") than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made\" (Gen. 3:1). There is no indication in the Book of Genesis that the serpent was a deity in its own right, although it is one of only two cases of animals that talk in the Pentateuch (Balaam's donkey being the other).\n\nGod placed Adam in the Garden to tend it and warned Adam not to eat the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil, \"for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.\" The serpent tempts Eve to eat of the Tree, but Eve tells the serpent what God had said (). The serpent replied that she would not surely die () and that if she eats the fruit of the tree \"then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.\" () Eve ate the fruit and gave it to Adam and he also ate. God, who was walking in the Garden, finds out and to prevent Adam and Eve from eating the fruit of the Tree of Life and living forever, they are banished from the Garden and God posts an angelic guard. The snake is punished for its role in the fall by being made to crawl on its belly and eat dust.\n\nThere is debate about whether the serpent in Eden should be viewed figuratively or as a literal animal. According to the Rabbinical tradition, the serpent represents sexual desire. Voltaire, drawing on Socinian influences, wrote: \"It was so decidedly a real serpent, that all its species, which had before walked on their feet, were condemned to crawl on their bellies. No serpent, no animal of any kind, is called Satan, or Belzebub, or Devil, in the Pentateuch.\"\n\n20th century scholars such as W. O. E. Oesterley (1921) were cognisant of the differences between the role of the Edenic serpent in the Hebrew Bible and any connection with \"ancient serpent\" in the New Testament. Modern historiographers of Satan such as Henry Ansgar Kelly (2006) and Wray and Mobley (2007) speak of the \"evolution of Satan\", or \"development of Satan\".\n\nAccording to German academic Gerhard von Rad, Lutheran theologian and University of Heidelberg professor, who applied form criticism as a supplement to the documentary hypothesis of the Old Testament, the snake in the Eden's narrative was more an expedient to represent the impulse to temptation of mankind (which is, disobeying God's law) rather than an evil spirit or the personification of the Devil, as the later Christian literature erroneously depicted it; moreover, von Rad himself states that the snake is not a demon, but one of the animals created by God, and the only thing that differentiates it from the others in Eden is the ability to speak:\n\nWhen God had revealed himself to the prophet Moses in , Moses recognized that the call of God was for him to lead the people of Israel out of slavery, but anticipated that people would deny or doubt his calling. In , Moses asked God how to respond to such doubt, and God asked him to cast the rod which he carried (possibly a shepherd's crook) onto the ground, whereupon it became a serpent (a \"nachash\"). Moses fled from it, but God encouraged him to come back and take it by the tail, and it became a rod again.\n\nLater in the Book of Exodus (Exodus 7), the staffs of Moses and Aaron were turned into serpents, a \"nachash\" for Moses, a \"tanniyn\" for Aaron.\n\n\"Fiery serpent\" () occurs in the Torah to describe a species of vicious snakes whose poison burns upon contact. According to Wilhelm Gesenius, \"saraph\" corresponds to the Sanskrit \"Sarpa\" (\"Jawl aqra\"), serpent; \"sarpin\", reptile (from the root \"srip, serpere\"). These \"burning serpents\" infested the great and terrible place of the desert wilderness (Num.21:4-9; Deut.8:15). The Hebrew word for \"poisonous\" literally means \"fiery\", \"flaming\" or \"burning\", as the burning sensation of a snake bite on human skin, a metaphor for the fiery anger of God (Numbers 11:1).\n\nThe Book of Isaiah expounds on the description of these fiery serpents as \"flying saraphs\", or \"flying dragons\", in the land of trouble and anguish (Isaiah 30:6). Isaiah indicates that these saraphs are comparable to vipers, worse than ordinary serpents (Isaiah 14:29). The prophet Isaiah also sees a vision of \"seraphim\" in the Temple itself: but these are divine agents, with wings and human faces, and are probably not to be interpreted as serpent-like so much as \"flame-like\".\n\nIn the Book of Numbers, while Moses was in the wilderness, he mounted a serpent of bronze on a pole that functioned as a cure against the bite of the \"seraphim\", the \"burning ones\" (). The phrase in Num.21:9, \"a serpent of bronze,\" is a wordplay as \"serpent\" (\"nehash\") and “bronze” (\"nehoshet\") are closely related in Hebrew, \"nehash nehoshet\".\n\nMainstream scholars suggest that the image of the fiery serpent served to function like that of a magical amulet. Magic amulets or charms were used in the ancient Near East to practice a healing ritual known as sympathetic magic in an attempt to ward off, heal or reduce the impact of illness and poisons. Copper and bronze serpent figures have been recovered, showing that the practice was widespread. A Christian interpretation would be that the bronze serpent served as a symbol for each individual Israelite to take their confession of sin and the need for God’s deliverance to heart. Confession of sin and forgiveness was both a community and an individual responsibility. The plague of serpents remained an ongoing threat to the community and the raised bronze serpent was an ongoing reminder to each individual for the need to turn to the healing power of God. It has also been proposed that the bronze serpent was a type of intermediary between God and the people that served as a test of obedience, in the form of free judgment, standing between the dead who were not willing to look to God’s chosen instrument of healing, and the living who were willing and were healed. Thus, this instrument bore witness to the sovereign power of Yahweh even over the dangerous and sinister character of the desert.\n\nIn , a bronze serpent, alleged to be the one Moses made, was kept in Jerusalem's Temple sanctuary. The Israelites began to worship the object as an idol or \"image of God\", by offering sacrifices and burning incense to it, until Hezekiah was made King. Hezekiah referred to it as \"Nehushtan\" and had torn it down. Scholars have debated the nature of the relationship between the Mosaic bronze serpent and Hezekiah’s Nehushtan, but traditions happen to link the two.\n\nIn the Gospel of Matthew, John the Baptist calls the Pharisees and Saducees, who were visiting him, a \"brood of vipers\" (). Jesus also uses this imagery, observing: \"Ye serpents, ye generation of vipers, how can ye escape the damnation of Gehenna?\" (). Alternatively, Jesus also presents the snake with a less negative connotation when sending out the Twelve Apostles. Jesus exhorted them, \"Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves: be ye therefore wise as \"serpents\", and harmless as doves\" (). Wilhelm Gesenius notes that even amongst the ancient Hebrews, the serpent was a symbol of wisdom.\n\nIn the Gospel of John, Jesus made mention of the Mosaic serpent when he foretold his crucifixion to a Jewish teacher. Jesus compared the act of raising up the Mosaic serpent on a pole, with the raising up of the Son of Man on a cross (). \"Main\": Nehushtan#New Testament\n\nIn the temptation of Christ, the Devil cites , \"for it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee: and in [their] hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.\" He cuts off before verse 13, \"Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young lion and the dragon (\"tanniyn\") shalt thou trample under feet.\"\n\nThe serpent in Psalm 91:13 is identified as Satan by Christians: \"super aspidem et basiliscum calcabis conculcabis leonem et draconem\" in the Latin Vulgate, literally \"The asp and the basilisk you will trample under foot; you will tread on the lion and the dragon\". This passage is commonly interpreted by Christians as a reference to Christ defeating and triumphing over Satan. The passage led to the Late Antique and Early Medieval iconography of Christ treading on the beasts, in which two beasts are often shown, usually the lion and snake or dragon, and sometimes four, which are normally the lion, dragon, asp (snake) and basilisk (which was depicted with varying characteristics) of the Vulgate. All represented the devil, as explained by Cassiodorus and Bede in their commentaries on Psalm 91. The serpent is often shown curled round the foot of the cross in depictions of the Crucifixion of Jesus from Carolingian art until about the 13th century; often it is shown as dead. The Crucifixion was regarded as the fulfillment of God's curse on the Serpent in . Sometimes it is pierced by the cross and in one ivory is biting Christ's heel, as in the curse.\n\nSerpent (Greek: ; Trans: \"Ophis\", ; \"snake\", \"serpent\") occurs in the Book of Revelation as the \"ancient serpent\" or \"old serpent\" used to describe \"the dragon\", Satan the Adversary, who is the devil. This serpent is depicted as a red seven-headed dragon having ten horns, each housed with a diadem. The serpent battles Michael the Archangel in a War in Heaven which results in this devil being cast out to the earth. While on earth, he pursues the Woman of the Apocalypse. Unable to obtain her, he wages war with the rest of her seed (Revelation 12:1-18). He who has the key to \"the abyss\" and a great chain over his hand, binds the serpent for a thousand years. The serpent is then cast into the \"abyss\" and sealed within until he is released (Revelation 20:1-3).\n\nIn Christian tradition, the \"ancient serpent\" is commonly identified with the Genesis Serpent and as Satan. This identification redefined the Hebrew Bible's concept of Satan (\"the Adversary\", a member of the Heavenly Court acting on behalf of God to test Job's faith), so that Satan/Serpent became a part of a divine plan stretching from Creation to Christ and the Second Coming.\n\nThe first deuterocanonical source to connect the serpent with the devil may be Wisdom of Solomon. The subject is more developed in the pseudepigraphal-apocryphal Apocalypse of Moses (Vita Adae et Evae) where the devil works with the serpent.\n\nIn traditional Christianity, a connection between the Serpent and Satan is created, and where God curses the serpent, is seen in that light: \"And the LORD God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life / And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel\" (KJV).\n\nFollowing the imagery of chapter 12 of the Book of Revelation, Bernard of Clairvaux had called Mary the \"conqueror of dragons\", and she was long to be shown crushing a snake underfoot, also a reference to her title as the \"New Eve\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32217947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32217947", "title": "Ta-no-Kami", "text": "Ta-no-Kami\n\nIn Japan, there are agricultural deities or kamis. In the Japanese documents, Nihon Shoki and Kojiki, there were kami of rice plants, Ukano Mitama, Toyouke Bimeno Kami, and kami of corns, Ootoshino Kami. Of them, Toyouke Bimeno Kami was written also in Engishiki, and is considered to be a female kami. Generally speaking, in the Tohoku area of Japan, agriculture-related kami is Nougami (agriculture kami), in the Koshin area, it is Saku Gami, in the Kinki area, it is Tsukuri Gami, in the Tajima and Inaba areas, it is kami of 亥(i),(On the day of i, the fields are struck; which is considered to give peace on the harvest ground). In the Chugoku and Shikoku areas, it is Sanbai Sama, in Setonaikai, it is the local kami. In Eastern Japan it is associated with the Ebisu faith, and in Western Japan it is associated with the Daikoku faith.\n\nAccording to their agricultural calendars, farmers observe kami ceremonies related to Ta-no-Kami in the spring and autumn. These include the ceremony of the beginning of a year, beginning of farming in early spring, the start of rice plant farming, rice plant transplantation (accepting kami at the start of transplantation, called Saori) (sending kami at the end is called Sanaburi) and harvest time. They also pray for the elimination of disasters or harmful insects. Finally, they conduct the ceremony of thanking kami for a good harvest, The real ceremonies and their names differ from place to place, although dancing, eating a special dish or rice cakes, or visits to the community kami, and burning ceremonies are some of them. Scarecrows are variations of Ta-no-Kami, since they are expected to prevent bad spirits of animals and birds. Niinamesai is one of the festivals of the Japanese Imperial family, the eating of freshly harvested rice with kami, a variation of the festivals of Ta-no-Kami. Previously it had been a national holiday.\n\nIn many parts of Japan, there are \"Kitsune tsuka\" (small fox shrine); the fox was considered to be a messenger of Ta-no-Kami. Inari Shrines originated from Kitsune tsuka, and faith in Inari Shrines spread throughout Japan.\n\nIn almost all areas of Japan, the real picture of Ta-no-Kami remains unclear, with the single exception of Tanokansaa in Kagoshima Prefecture and parts of Miyazaki Prefecture. Tanokansaa is the dialect of Ta-no-Kami in these prefectures. In their communities, peasants place Tanokansaa stone statues, either of the buddha type and shinto priest type (with or without a mace), or of the peasant type( with or without a pestle). It was started in the 18th century in the Satsuma han. In Miyazaki Prefecture, Ta-no-Kami is seen only in areas governed by Satsuma han. After the meiji era, this custom spread in accordance with the movements of its inhabitants.\n\n\"Saotome\" (早乙女), or rice planting women, played a religious role in ancient times, rice growing was considered a religious act, and there were many taboos that had to be observed. The \"inadama\" was the spirit of the rice plant. Since World War 2 rice planting has become mechanized.　\n\nIn the popular \"anime\" series, Saotome Ranma is the central character in Ranma 1/2.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2287340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2287340", "title": "The Kybalion", "text": "The Kybalion\n\nThe Kybalion: Hermetic Philosophy, originally published in 1908 by a person or persons under the pseudonym of \"the Three Initiates\", is a book claiming to be the essence of the teachings of Hermes Trismegistus.\n\n\"The Kybalion\" was first published in 1908 by the Yogi Publication Society, in Chicago, Illinois, and is now in the public domain, as well as circulating the World Wide Web. Purportedly based upon ancient Hermeticism, its philosophies, in conjunction with others, have become founding pillars within the New Thought movement of the early 1910s. The book early on makes the claim that it makes its appearance in one's life when the time is appropriate and includes axioms and insights similar to those found in the Book of Proverbs.\n\nThe book devotes a chapter to each of its seven \"Principles\", or axioms:\n\nThe Principle of Mentalism embodies the idea that \"All is Mind.\"\nEverything that happens has to be a result of a mental state which precedes it. For anything to exist, thoughts had to form first, which then form physical reality or manifestation.\n\"Your thoughts are seeds, plant positive seeds in your mind garden.\"\n\nThe Principle of Correspondence expresses the idea that there is always a correspondence between the laws of phenomena of the various \"planes\" of being and life. As above, so below; as below, so above. This principle states that there is a harmony which can be made, agreement and correspondence between these planes, delineated as:\n\nThis expounds the idea that motion is manifest in everything in the Universe, that nothing rests, and everything moves, vibrates and circles. This principle explains that the distinction between manifestations of Matter, Energy, Mind, and even Spirit, are the result of only different \"vibrations\". The higher a person is on the scale, the higher the rate of vibration will be. Here, The All is said to be at an infinite level of vibration, almost to the point of being at rest. There are said to be millions upon millions of varying degrees between the highest level, The All, and the objects of the lowest vibration.\n\nMental Transmutation is described as the practical application of this principle. To change one's mental state is to change vibration. One may do this by an effort of Will, by means of deliberately \"fixing the attention\" upon a more desirable state.\n\nThe Principle of Polarity embodies the idea that everything is dual, everything has two poles, and everything has its opposite. All manifested things have two sides, two aspects, or two poles. Everything \"is\" and \"isn't\" at the same time, all truths are but half truths and every truth is half false, there are two sides to everything, opposites are identical in nature yet different in degree, extremes meet, and all paradoxes may be reconciled.\n\nThe Principle of Rhythm expresses the idea that in everything there is manifested a measured motion, a to and from, a flow and inflow, a swing backward and forward, a pendulum-like movement. There is rhythm between every pair of opposites, or poles, and is closely related to the Principle of Polarity. It can be seen that this Principle enables transition from one pole to the other, and not necessarily poles of extreme opposites.\n\nIt explains that there is a cause for every effect, and an effect for every cause. It also states that there is no such thing as chance, that chance is merely a term indicating extant causes not recognized or perceived. The Principle is clarified in the chapter Causation.\n\nThe Principle of Gender embodies the idea that gender is manifested in everything. The authors state that this does not relate explicitly to the commonly understood notion of sex, but rather \"... to beget; to procreate, to generate, to create, or to produce...\" in general. Gender manifests itself on all planes as the Feminine and Masculine principles.\n\nMental Gender is described as a Hermetic concept which relates to the feminine and masculine principles. It does not refer to someone's physical sex, nor does it suggest that someone of a certain sex necessarily has a matching mental gender. Ideally, one wants to have a balanced mental gender.\n\nThe concept put forth in \"The Kybalion\" states that gender exists on all planes of existence (Physical, Mental and Spiritual), and represents different aspects on different planes. Everything and everyone contains these two elements or principles.\n\nThe Feminine principle is always in the direction of receiving impressions, and has a much more varied field of operation than the Masculine. The Feminine conducts the work of generating new thoughts, concepts and ideas, including the work of the imagination.\n\nThe Masculine principle is always in the direction of giving out or expressing, and contents itself with the \"Will\" in its varied phases.\n\nThe \"Three Initiates\" who authored \"The Kybalion\" chose to remain anonymous. As a result, a great deal of speculation has been made about who actually wrote the book. The most common proposal is that \"The Kybalion\" was authored by William Walker Atkinson, either alone or with others, such as Paul Foster Case and Elias Gewurz.\n\nAtkinson was known to use many pseudonyms, and to self-publish his works. Also suggestive is that among his earliest published pseudonymous and anonymous works may have been a series entitled \"The Arcane Teachings\" (first published prior to 1909 and the second edition in 1909), which bears many superficial similarities to \"The Kybalion\". While the latter explores seven \"Hermetic Principles\", \"The Arcane Teachings\" examines seven \"Arcane Laws\"; \"The Kybalion\" claims to be an elucidation of an ancient, unpublished Hermetic text of the same name, and \"The Arcane Teachings\" claims to reveal the wisdom of an ancient, unpublished scroll of occult aphorisms. Both books describe three \"Great Planes\" of reality which are further subdivided into seven lesser planes. Both also describe three of the lesser planes as \"astral black keys\" analogous to the black keys on a piano, and inhabited by elemental spirits. And both books describe the process of \"Mental Alchemy\" in great detail, and in near-complete agreement with each other. There are other similarities, and some argue that \"The Arcane Teachings\" might have been Atkinson's \"first draft\" of material which later became \"The Kybalion\". Atkinson also attempted to describe the workings of the universe in terms of a set of laws in his last manuscript \"The Seven Cosmic Laws\", written in 1931 and published posthumously in 2011.\n\nA common theory is that Atkinson co-wrote the book with Paul Foster Case and Michael Whitty. This theory is often held by members of Builders of the Adytum (B.O.T.A.), the Mystery School later founded by Case, though it doesn't publicly make this claim. This story appears to have originated with a B.O.T.A. splinter group, the Fraternity of the Hidden Light.\n\nAlong these lines, much has been made about Paul Foster Case's being a Freemason, and that \"The Kybalion's\" publisher, the Yogi Publication Society, gave its address as \"Masonic Temple, Chicago IL\" on the book's frontispiece. However, Chicago's \"Masonic Temple\" was also the city's first skyscraper, housing dozens of stores and small businesses without any Masonic affiliations, and named for the Masonic Lodge which financed much of its construction and met in its top few floors.\n\nOther names speculatively mentioned as co-authors of \"The Kybalion\" include Harriet Case (Paul Foster Case's wife at the time), Mabel Collins (a prominent Theosophical writer), Claude Bragdon (an architect, Theosophist, and writer on \"mystic geometry\"), and Claude Alexander (a well-known stage magician, mentalist, proponent of crystal gazing, and New Thought author). Ann Davies, who succeeded Case as head of the B.O.T.A., is often mentioned as a possible \"Kybalion\" contributor, but she was born in 1912—four years after the book's first publication.\n\nThe introduction for a 2011 edition of \"The Kybalion\" published by Tarcher/Penguin presents an argument that William Walker Atkinson was the sole author of the work, including evidence such as the 1912 edition of Who's Who in America, which attributes Atkinson as the author, and a 1917 French language edition of \"The Kybalion\" in which the translator's introduction attributes the work to \"the American psychic master W.W. Atkinson.\"\n\nThe works of the English philosopher Herbert Spencer are referred to approvingly in \"The Kybalion\" as showing an understanding of hermetic principles; and Spencer himself is eulogised as a reincarnation of the 5th century BCE Greek philosopher Heraclitus; who is in turn described as being a reincarnation of a still more ancient, Egyptian philosopher. No other writers are similarly referenced or endorsed within the text.\n\nDoreen Virtue, PhD wrote a book called \"Divine Magic: The Seven Sacred Secrets of Manifestation (A New Interpretation of the Classic Hermetic Manual The Kybalion)\", in 2006, presenting a modern version of \"The Kybalion\" with companion \"meditative\" CD. In her view, one can learn to master one's moods, release negativity, manifest \"higher levels of abundance\", and attract new opportunities into one's life with the aid of the teachings of \"The Kybalion\".\n\nAnother loosely derivative work has emerged from an esoteric organization by the name of Summum which, considering \"The Kybalion\" to be antiquated and incomplete, rewrote the text to incorporate a \"grand principle\", their Principle of Creation. Summum describes this as the foundation underlying the existence of The All, and the source from which the seven Principles emanate.\n\nThe Builders of the Adytum consider \"The Kybalion\" an essential foundation of their beliefs, and have translated the original text into Spanish, German and French, the latter was completed by André Durville. \"The Kybalion\" itself claims to have influenced all major religions and philosophies ancient and modern alike.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7300335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7300335", "title": "Theologian of the Pontifical Household", "text": "Theologian of the Pontifical Household\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, Theologian of the Pontifical Household () is a Roman Curial office which has always been entrusted to a Friar Preacher of the Dominican Order and may be described as the pope's theologian. The title was formerly known as the Master of the Sacred Apostolic Palace () before the changes implemented in Pope Paul VI's 1968 apostolic letter \"Pontificalis Domus\".\n\nIn 1218 St. Dominic was the first papal theologian to be given the title \"Master of the Sacred Palace\". Eighty-four Dominicans succeeded him until the early 20th century. Eighteen of them were later named Cardinals, twenty-four archbishops or bishops (including some of the cardinals), and six were elected Superior generals of the order. Several are famous for their works on theology, e.g. Durandus of Saint-Pourçain, Juan de Torquemada, Sylvester Mazzolini 'Prierias', Thomas Maria Mamachi and Giuseppe Agostino Ors. The majority were Italians, ten Spaniards, ten Frenchmen, one German, and one an Englishman (William de Boderisham, or Bonderish, 1263–1270?).\n\nThe chronicles of the churches of \"San Domenico\" at Perugia and \"San Domenico\" at Orvieto attest that the \"studium\" at the convent of Santa Sabina, which is the forerunner of the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum, played the special role of frequently providing papal theologians from among its members.\n\nCurrently the post is held by Fr. Wojciech Giertych, a Polish Dominican former student of and professor of theology at the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\", who was appointed by Pope Benedict XVI in 2005 to replace the Swiss Cardinal Georges Cottier, now Theologian Emeritus of the Pontifical Household.\nIt has sometimes been asserted that St. Thomas Aquinas was a Master of the Sacred Palace. This is due to a misconception: he was Lector of the Sacred Palace, these offices were not identical. (See Bullarium O. P., III, 18.) Though he and two other contemporary Dominicans, namely his teacher St. Albert the Great and his fellow pupil Bl. Ambrose Sansedonico (about both of whom the same assertion has been made) held successively the office of Lecturer on Scripture or Lecturer on Theology in the papal palace school, not one of them was Master of the Sacred Palace. Their names do not occur in the official lists. While all Masters of the Sacred Palace were Dominicans, several members of other orders were Lectors of the Sacred Palace (e.g. Peckham O.S.F., who became Archbishop of Canterbury in 1279). \n\nSt. Dominic's work as Master of the Sacred Palace consisted partly at least in expounding the Epistles of St. Paul. These exegetical lectures were delivered to prelates and to the clerical attendants of cardinals who, as the saint observed, had been accustomed to gather in the antechamber and to spend the time in gossip while their masters were having audiences with the pope. According to Renazzi (I, 25), St. Dominic may be regarded as the founder of the papal palace school, since his Biblical lectures were the occasion of its being established. The liturgist Josephus Catalanus, who, however, is not guilty of the confusion alluded to above, says he was the first Lector of the Sacred Palace as well as the first Master of the Sacred Palace.\nIn the thirteenth century the chief duty of the Master of the Sacred Palace was to lecture on Scripture and to preside over the theological school in Vatican: \"in scholae Romanae et Pontificiae regimine et in publica sacrae scripturae expositione\" (Echard). The Lectores or Magistri scholarum S. Palatii taught under him. It became customary for the Master of the Sacred Palace, according to Cardinal de Luca, to preach before the pope and his court in Advent and Lent. This had probably been sometimes done by St. Dominic. Up to the sixteenth century the Master of the Sacred Palace preached, but after it this work was permanently entrusted to his companion (another Dominican). A further division of labour was made by Benedict XIV (Decree, \"Inclyta Fratrum\", 1743); since the companion preaches to the papal household, and a Capuchin preaches to the pope and to the cardinals. \n\nBut the work of the Master of the Sacred Palace as papal theologian continues to the present. As it has assumed its actual form by centuries of development, we may give a summary of the legislation respecting it and the various functions it comprises and also of the honours attaching to it. The \"Acta\" (or \"Calenda\") of the Palatine officials in 1409 (under Alexander V) show that on certain days, the Master of the Sacred Palace was bound to deliver lectures, and on other days he was expected, if called upon, either to propose or to answer questions at the theological conference which was held in the pope's presence. On 30 October 1439, Eugene IV decreed that the Master of the Sacred Palace should rank next to the dean of the Sacred Rota, that no one should preach before the pope whose sermon had not been previously approved of by him, and that in accordance with ancient usage no one could be made a doctor of theology in Rome but by him (Bullarium O. P., III, 81). Callistus III (13 November 1455) confirmed and amplified the second part of this decree, but at the same time exempted cardinals from its operation (ibid., p. 356). It has fallen into disuse.\nIn the Fifth Lateran Council (sess. x, 4 May 1513) Leo X ordained that no book should be printed either in Rome or in its district without leave from the cardinal vicar and the Master of the Sacred Palace (ibid., IV, 318). Paul V (11 June 1620) and Urban VIII added to the obligations imposed by this decree. So did Alexander VII in 1663 (Bullarium, passim). All these later enactments regard the inhabitants of the Roman Province or of the Papal States. They were renewed by Benedict XIV (1 September 1744). And the permission of the Master of the Sacred Palace must be got not only to print, but to publish, and before the second permission is granted, three printed copies must be deposited with him: for himself, for his companion and for the cardinal vicar. \n\nThe Roman Vicariate never examines work intended for publication. For centuries the imprimatur of the Master of the Sacred Palace who always examined them followed the \"Si videbitur Reverendissimo Magistro Sacri Palatii\" of the cardinal vicar; in virtue of custom but not of any ascertained law, since about the year 1825 the cardinal vicar gives an imprimatur, and it follows that of the Master of the Sacred Palace. The obligation once incumbent on cardinals of presenting their work to the Master of the Sacred Palace for his imprimatur has fallen into disuse, but through courtesy many cardinals do present their works. \n\nIn the Constitution \"Officiorum ac Munerum\" (25 January 1897), Leo XIII declared that all persons residing in Rome may get leave from the Master of the Sacred Palace to read forbidden books, and that if authors who live in Rome intend to get their works published elsewhere, the joint imprimatur of the cardinal vicar and the Master of the Sacred Palace renders it unnecessary to ask any other approbation. As is well known, if an author not resident in Rome desires to have his work published there, provided that an agreement with the author's Ordinary has been made and that the Master of the Sacred Palace judges favourably of the work, the imprimatur will be given. In this case the book is known by its having two title pages: the one bearing the name of the domiciliary, the other that of the Roman publisher. \n\nBefore the establishment of the Congregation of the Inquisition (in 1542) and Congregation of the Index (1587), the Master of the Sacred Palace condemned books and forbade reading them under censure. Instances of his so doing occur regularly till about the middle of the sixteenth century; one occurred as late as 1604, but by degrees this task has been appropriated to the above-mentioned congregations of which he is an \"ex officio\" member. The Master of the Sacred Palace was made by Pius V (29 July 1570; see \"Bullarium\", V, 245) canon theologian of St. Peter's Basilica, but this Bull was revoked by his successor Gregory XIII (11 March 1575).\nFrom the time when Leo X recognized the Roman University \"Sapienza\" (5 November 1513, by the decree \"Dum suavissimos\") he transferred to it the old theological school of the papal palace. The Master of the Sacred Palace became the president of the new theological faculty. The other members were the pope's grand sacristan (an Augustinian), the commissary of the Holy Office (a Dominican), the procurators general of the five Mendicant Orders, i.e. Dominican, Franciscan (Conventual), Augustinian, Carmelite and Servite, and the professors who succeeded to the ancient Lectors of the Sacred Palace. Sixtus V is by some regarded as the founder of this college or faculty, but he may have only given its definite form. He is said to have confirmed the prerogative enjoyed by the Master of the Sacred Palace of conferring all degrees of philosophy and theology. Instances of papal diplomas implying this power of the Master of the Sacred Palace occur in the \"Bullarium\" passim (e.g. of Innocent IV on 6 June 1406). The presidential authority of the Master of the Sacred Palace over this, the greatest theological faculty in Rome, was confirmed by Leo XII in 1824. \n\nSince the occupation of Rome in 1870 by Italy, the Sapienza has been laicized and turned into a state university, so that on the special occasions when the Master of the Sacred Palace held an examination, e.g. for the purpose of examining all that are to be appointed to episcopal sees in Italy, or again of conferring the title of S.T.D., he did so, with the assistance of the high dignitaries just mentioned, in his apartment in the Vatican. He is also examiner in the concursus for parishes in Rome which are held in the Roman Vicariate. Before Eugene IV issued the Bull referred to above, the Master of the Sacred Palace was in processions etc., the dignitary immediately under the Apostolic subdeacons, but when this pope raised the auditors of the Rota to the rank of Apostolic subdeacons, he gave the Master of the Sacred Palace the place immediately next to the dean who was in charge of the papal mitre. In 1655, Alexander VII put the other auditors of the Sacra Romana Rota above the Master of the Sacred Palace. This was done, according to Cardinal De Luca, solely because one white and black habit looked badly among several violet soutanes. One of the occasional duties of the Master of the Sacred Palace is performed in conjunction with the auditors of the Rota; namely to watch over the three apertures or \"drums\" through which the cardinals receive all communications during a conclave. In papal processions, the Master of the Sacred Palace walks next to the auditors, immediately behind the bearer of the papal tiara. \n\nThough the office has gradually lost some of its traditional authority and rank, the Master of the Sacred Palace is a very high official. He is one of the three Palatine prelates (the others being the papal Maggiordomo and the Grand Almoner) to whom, as to bishops, the papal guards present arms. He is always addressed, even by cardinals, as \"Most Reverend\". In the Dominican Order he ranks next to the general, ex-general and vicar-general. He is \"ex officio\" consultor of the Holy Office, prelate-consultor of Rites, and perpetual assistant of the Index. He is consultor of the Biblical Commission and is frequently consulted by the pope. His official audience occurs once a fortnight. The official apartment of the Master of the Sacred Palace was in the Quirinal, which long contained a complete series of portraits in fresco of the Masters of the Sacred Palace, beginning with St. Dominic. These were effaced when the Italian kingdom occupied the Quirinal, but copies of them were put in the temporary apartment of the Master of the Sacred Palace in the Vatican.\n"}
{"id": "54277797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54277797", "title": "Thumma Bala", "text": "Thumma Bala\n\nArchbishop Thumma Bala is the current Archbishop of Hyderabad and Chairman of Andhra Pradesh Bishop's council and also the Chairman of Communication Commission of the diocese.\n\nHe was born in Narmetta, Andhra Pradesh on 24 April 1944.\n\nHe was Ordained a Catholic Priest on 21 December 1970.\n\nHe was appointed Bishop of Warangal on 17 Nov 1986 by Pope John Paul II. He was Ordained Bishop on 12 March 1987. He was appointed Archbishop of Hyderabad on 12 March 2011 by Pope Benedict XVI and installed as Archbishop of Hyderabad on 5 May 2011. He was attacked by some mob in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "1559271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1559271", "title": "When the President Talks to God", "text": "When the President Talks to God\n\n\"When the President Talks to God\" is a protest song by Bright Eyes, with a very pointed political message directed towards George W. Bush and his policies. It was originally released as a free download on iTunes but has since been released as a promotional 7\" vinyl and as a B-side to \"First Day of My Life\".\n\nOn May 2, 2005, Conor Oberst performed the song on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\".\n\nIn June 2006, Oberst expressed that he's \"over\" the song from having played it too many times.\n\nIt won Song of the Year at the 2006 PLUG Independent Music Awards.\n\nEarly in the morning on December 19, 2006, the song was offered as a featured free download on the front page of the iTunes Store, but was removed within hours without explanation. The song and the EP are still available for free on iTunes but are not featured on the free download page.\n\n\n"}
