{"id": "43673658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43673658", "title": "2017–18 Bergen County eruv controversy", "text": "2017–18 Bergen County eruv controversy\n\nIn July 2017 the municipalities of Mahwah, Upper Saddle River and Montvale in Bergen County, New Jersey, in the United States, opposed extension of an eruv within their borders. An eruv is a land area surrounded by a boundary of religious significance, often marked by small plastic pipes (called \"lechis\") attached to utility poles. The demarcation permits Orthodox Jews to push or carry objects (such as prayer books, keys or baby strollers) within the eruv on the Jewish Sabbath, in a way that is otherwise considered forbidden under Orthodox Jewish law. Other Jewish denominations, such as Reform or Reconstructionist, do not hold such views.\n\nThe three municipalities ordered that the borders of the eruv be dismantled having been erected without the appropriate consents. Many Mahwah residents angrily protested against the prospect of Orthodox Jews from Rockland County, New York, using local parks or seeking to buy homes there.\n\nAfter no agreement could be reached short of litigation, the eruv association brought suit against each of the municipalities. Mahwah's actions in passing a township ordinance to bar nonresidents of New Jersey from its parks, and the hostility of some residents and council members towards those who supported the eruv led Democratic candidate for Governor of New Jersey Phil Murphy and others to make accusations of anti-Semitism. The presiding judge in the lawsuits, John Michael Vazquez, in January 2018 made it clear he felt the municipalities did not have a strong case, and urged them to settle. The three municipalities have settled with the eruv association, allowing the eruv borders to remain. Mahwah has settled a lawsuit from the New Jersey Attorney General accusing it of discrimination.\n\nThe township of Mahwah, and the boroughs of Upper Saddle River and Montvale, are neighboring municipalities in northwestern Bergen County, New Jersey. All three are adjacent to the state line with New York, on the other side of which is Rockland County, where there are large communities of Orthodox Jews.\n\nAn eruv (plural \"eruvin\", or sometimes \"eruvim\") is an enclosure defined by string, rope, wires, cables, etc., that allows observant Jews, including the Orthodox, to carry or push objects further than is normally permitted on the Jewish Sabbath (or Shabbat). Normally, on Shabbat, an object may not be taken from a private domain, such as a house, into a public one, such as a street or sidewalk, or moved, in a public area, more than 4 cubits (about 6 feet; 1.7 meters). Note that \"domain\" is a technical term referring to how enclosed an area is, not property ownership.\n\nObjects may be moved freely if they remain within a private domain, and an eruv effectively extends the private domain through the area it encloses, including streets and sidewalks. The boundary of an eruv is often marked by utility poles surrounding a given area, with the space between regarded as doorways, topped by lintels, the telephone or power wires. The poles are regarded as doorposts, and are marked by lechis (singular: lechi), solid objects such as lengths of twine or of plastic pipe, which run from near the ground to just below the wires. In short, the act of stringing such a boundary around a public area by a Jewish community creates the pretense for its members that that public area is enclosed for the limited purpose of allowing the members to do some otherwise forbidden things in that public area on the Sabbath.\n\nThere are many requirements for eruvin; the Talmud devotes an entire tractate to the subject. This complexity makes rabbinic supervision and regular inspection mandatory. An operating eruv allows observant Jews to carry prayer books from home to synagogue on Shabbat, or to push strollers or baby carriages.\nIn Teaneck, in southeastern Bergen County and home to large numbers of Orthodox Jews, an eruv has existed since the 1970s with little controversy, and, as the Jewish population increased, was extended to nearby Bogota and Bergenfield. Other eruvin in Bergen County are in Fair Lawn and in Paramus.\n\nA previous instance in which an eruv had been constructed in Bergen County, and had been challenged by local authorities, occurred in Tenafly, in the eastern part of the county. Attempts by municipal authorities to ban eruvin had failed when challenged in the federal courts, and the settlement in 2006 after a six-year battle obliged the borough to pay $325,000 for the eruv association's legal costs. In some cases involving conflict over whether an eruv should be permitted, the municipality has lost and the construction of the eruv allowed to continue.\n\nOrthodox Jews in Rockland County gained a license from Orange and Rockland Utilities (which serves parts of both Rockland County in New York and Bergen County in New Jersey) to construct an eruv using its utility poles in 2015, and in March 2017 the company granted permission for the South Monsey Eruv Fund to install lechis, made from white PVC pipe, on its utility poles in northwestern Bergen County. This was an extension of an existing eruv in Rockland County, and was intended to run through Mahwah, Upper Saddle River and Montvale. According to Rabbi Chaim Steinmetz, head of the eruv association, the purpose was to accommodate those living in Rockland County close to the border, near New York State Route 59. The boundaries had to be run through New Jersey due to the lack of a road along the state line. Mahwah police noted construction being done on utility poles in May and made inquiries. On learning that Orange and Rockland had authorized the work, they provided police protection, for which the department was paid about $2,000 by the eruv fund. The work in Mahwah was complete by June.\n\nWhen the matter became generally known in mid-July, there was what local reporter Tom Nobile called a \"firestorm of opposition\" from local residents, with some expressing concerns that the eruv would allow Orthodox communities in Rockland County to expand into New Jersey. Groups formed on social media, including one named Mahwah Strong, in opposition to the eruv. Mahwah Strong claimed 3,000 members within days; a founder, Robert Ferguson, stated that his group would act as a check and balance to ensure the township enforced its laws, and noted, \"I don't view this as a hostile takeover of the town.\" Two hundred people gathered in a Mahwah park on July 22 to support the eruv's removal. An online petition to \"Protect the Quality of Our Community in Mahwah\", initiated by former township council member John Roth, reached 1,200 names before being taken down due to what Roth called inappropriate comments, made by some signers. Similarly, Mahwah Strong lost its Facebook page following an influx of comments deemed \"hateful\".\n\nIn early July 2017, the eruv was completed in part of Upper Saddle River. Montvale acted first against the eruv, with Mayor Michael Ghassali issuing a stop work order on July 10, after the eruv association had rented equipment and arranged with local police to provide security. Montvale authorities objected on the grounds that the lechis constituted a sign, forbidden by borough ordinance. This was done prior to construction with the result that the eruv did not extend into Montvale. On July 18, Upper Saddle River's attorney sent a letter demanding the removal of the lechis that had been erected there, with a deadline of July 26, but the borough agreed to let them remain for the time being after two New York State residents filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in Newark, requesting a temporary restraining order against the borough and Mayor Joanne Minichetti. The borough's agreement was in exchange for an undertaking from the eruv association not to expand the eruv, and the motion for a restraining order was withdrawn. The eruv was vandalized on July 26 and 27, requiring immediate repair work. Mahwah's township engineer, Mike Kelly, sent a letter to the eruv association on July 21, taking a stance similar to Montvale's, and demanding the removal of the eruv by August 4. Mayor Bill Laforet stated, \"This sends a very strong message to those who choose to violate our sign ordinances.\"\n\nOn June 29, the Mahwah Township Council had passed an ordinance, effective July 27, barring nonresidents of New Jersey from its parks. Residents had complained that out-of-staters were flooding Mahwah's parks, sometimes by the busload. After the ordinance passed, but before it went into effect, Mahwah police chief James Batelli received many phone calls from residents asking that it be enforced against Orthodox Jews. He contacted the Bergen County Prosecutor, Gurbir Grewal, for advice. On July 27, the date the ordinance was to go into effect, Grewal issued a directive ordering Mahwah police to disregard the ban, stating that the ban could lead to racial profiling, unlawful searches and seizures and the illegal targeting of Orthodox Jews. In response, Rob Hermansen, president of the township council, stated that that body would rework the ordinance to continue putting Mahwah residents first.\n\nWhen the Mahwah Township Council met on the evening of July 27, it did so before an overflow crowd. Despite warnings from the township attorney not to discuss issues of religion, some did. Others complained of nonresidents crowding parks, and that they had been visited by people wanting to buy their homes. The lawyer for Mahwah Strong urged the council to enforce the law by requiring the takedown of the eruv. Ferguson was quoted as saying at the meeting, \"We do not not want these people living in our neighborhoods. We want them following the law.\"\n\nAs the eruv controversy intensified, Mahwah and Montvale, as well as neighboring boroughs, enacted or made stricter ordinances restricting those making unsolicited offers to buy houses from knocking on doors. Municipal officials stated that this was being done because of the concerns of residents, who feared the Orthodox moving in would result in a population explosion, that the schools would suffer, and high-density housing built. Residents cited Lakewood in Ocean County as an example of such problems.\n\nTo a standing ovation from some 200 residents in attendance, the Mahwah council on August 10 unanimously voted to issue summonses because the eruv had not been taken down. Mayor Laforet, though, urged the council not to take this step, pointing to the large expense the unsuccessful eruv litigation had cost Tenafly, and advocated negotiation. In response to the council's action, the Bergen-Rockland Eruv Association (of which the South Monsey group is a part) and several Orthodox Jews resident in Rockland County filed suit in federal court against Mahwah on August 11, and promised to defy any summonses. Residents of Teaneck and Englewood, each in southeastern Bergen County and home to large communities of Orthodox Jews, had gone to Mahwah and Upper Saddle River to make known their views at council meetings. Council members from Teaneck and Englewood had spoken there in support of the eruv's retention, only to meet a hostile reception. Citizens for a Better Upper Saddle River posted a screenshot of the Teaneck council schedule online, urging members to mark their calendars with the dates. Council member Mark Schwartz of Teaneck stated that visitors would be welcome, and could view how a diverse community functioned. Michael Cohen of the Englewood council stated, \"We have repeatedly attempted to communicate to the leadership of Upper Saddle River and Mahwah why it is that the rhetoric and actions being seen and taken by certain members of their governing bodies and by certain members of their communities are being viewed by the outside world as anti-Semitic. However, those attempts have largely continued to fall on deaf ears.\"\n\nFollowing failed settlement negotiations and a closed-door council meeting on October 10, the Bergen-Rockland Eruv Association and individual plaintiffs sued Montvale on October 18, alleging that Mayor Ghassali's stop work order inhibited them in practicing their religion. They cited a 2015 statement from then-mayor Roger Fyfe, from when rumors of an eruv had first circulated, that an eruv was a simple accommodation and a matter in which the borough had only a slight part. The plaintiffs also alleged that Mahwah and Upper Saddle River were aware of the eruv construction, but had no problem with it until they gave in to a campaign of xenophobia and anti-Semitism. The next day, the Democratic candidate for governor, Phil Murphy, accused the residents of Mahwah of causing an \"overarching perception of anti-Semitism and discrimination\". According to Murphy, \"When a Holocaust survivor at a public meeting is heckled, and then denounced as a fraud, there is a problem. When well-intentioned residents are disparaged as 'paid actors' for a 'Jewish money conspiracy scheme' there is a problem.\"\n\nOn October 24, the Attorney General of New Jersey, Christopher Porrino, sued Mahwah and its council, alleging that by voting for the parks ban and for the summonses, they had violated the constitutional rights of Orthodox Jews. The case, filed in state court in Hackensack, sought nullification of the council's actions, statutory penalties, attorney's fees, and the return of $3.5 million in state-provided Green Acres funds with which Mahwah had purchased and maintained parks. Under the Green Acres program, parks benefitting from the funds may not discriminate, including on the basis of religion or residency. Porrino stated, \"To think that there are local governments here in New Jersey, in 2017, making laws on the basis of some archaic, fear-driven and discriminatory mindset, is deeply disappointing and shocking to many, but it is exactly what we are alleging in this case. Of course, in this case we allege the target of the small-minded bias is not African-Americans, but Orthodox Jews. Nonetheless, the hateful message is the same.\" Mayor Laforet accused Council President Hermansen of fear-mongering and stoking passions, \"His disgraceful behavior is now worsened by the severe potential financial penalties facing the township's taxpayer.\" In the municipal election on November 7, Mahwah voters easily re-elected two anti-eruv council members, defeating challengers supported by Laforet. The case was removed from state to federal court by Mahwah on November 22 as it raised questions under the federal constitution. On December 1, the council voted unanimously to allocate $175,000 to fight the lawsuits, which supplemented the $90,000 previously appropriated.\n\nIn the Upper Saddle River case, on October 10, 2017, the eruv association moved for a preliminary injunction allowing the eruv to remain pending the outcome of the litigation. In support, the association provided documentation showing that Mayor Minichetti had told the borough council about the proposed eruv in 2015, and the new sign ordinance had rapidly followed. In response to the motion, filed on November 2, Upper Saddle River stated that the sign law was tightened because of a divisive municipal election in 2014, that had seen many signs. The borough argued that the lawsuit was premature, as the eruv association had not sought permission. It argued that it had not violated the constitutional rights of the plaintiffs; its sign ordinance was content-neutral, banning all signs of whatever sort, and thus the plaintiffs had not been discriminated against. It alleged that permission to erect the lechis from Orange and Rockland was insufficient; the eruv association also had to comply with local law, and in any event the communications company Verizon had joint use of the poles and had not been asked for consent. Upper Saddle River distinguished its situation from that of Tenafly, stating that in Tenafly, exceptions had been made to the sign ordinance, but in Upper Saddle River it had been strictly enforced. Towards the end of December, Montvale Mayor Ghassali indicated that his borough was negotiating with the plaintiffs, seeking to reach an amicable settlement of the federal lawsuit.\n\nMurphy was elected governor in November and designated Bergen County Prosecutor Grewal as the new Attorney General. Thus, once they took office, opponents of Mahwah's position would hold powerful posts in the state capital of Trenton, and municipal officials began to have second thoughts about whether to fight the eruv. On December 14, 2017, following the advice of legal counsel, the Mahwah council repealed the still-unenforced ban on out-of-state park users, and abandoned an attempt to amend the sign ordinance to bar \"other matter\" (the lechis) from being affixed to utility poles. The \"other matter\" language would have imitated the 2015 changes to the Upper Saddle River sign law which had followed Minichetti informing the borough council about the plans for the eruv, and was withdrawn, according to Hermansen, lest Mahwah's motives be misinterpreted. The vote to repeal the park ban was unanimous, with one council member absent. After the vote, Laforet called the ordinances \"ill-advised\" before being silenced by the council. He resumed outside the council chamber and disclosed that the members could have faced prosecution. \"They are hiding from you that if they failed to do so, the Attorney General can come into Mahwah to press civil or criminal bias charges. For people who did a lot of shouting, and shouting down the past several months, they are strangely quiet about that.\"\n\nThe Upper Saddle River lawsuit was scheduled for argument before Judge John Michael Vazquez of the federal court for New Jersey. When he convened that hearing on January 9, 2018, rather than hear the lawyers argue the positions set forth in the legal briefs, Judge Vazquez told them his views. He questioned whether the borough had consistently enforced the ordinance, as plaintiffs' lawyers had discovered a number of signs and even mailboxes attached to utility poles, that Upper Saddle River had not taken down. The judge voiced his skepticism that the 2015 sign ordinance had been passed because of a contentious municipal election the previous year, as the borough maintained, and indicated that he was inclined to believe it was passed because of the eruv. He urged Upper Saddle River to try to settle the case, and to do so in coordination with the other two municipalities—he was also presiding judge in those cases.\n\nOn January 30, 2018, the Mahwah council voted 5–2 to accept a negotiated settlement of the eruv litigation, despite some residents who urged the council to fight all the way to the Supreme Court. Council President Hermansen supported the deal as the best possible outcome, \"We're trying to do the right thing. This is a good town with good people, and we're making this decision for good people.\" He wrote on Facebook that Mahwah \"should be known more for our open space, parks and our overall community than the negative comments made about our residents from outsiders.\" The terms of the settlement were not announced at that meeting as the deal was still pending agreement by the plaintiffs, but were disclosed the following day. The eruv is to remain, but the lechis were to be painted to match the pole, or replaced with ones of that color, The township was to pay the association $10,000 or such other sum as mutually agreed for legal fees. The association may expand the eruv, but is to consult with the council before doing so. On February 7, a public meeting that was called for that day to discuss the terms of the settlement was postponed to a future date on the advice of the township's attorneys. \n\nMontvale also undertook negotiations with the eruv association plaintiffs. Some Montvale residents sought to minimize the land covered by the eruv within the borough by having the boundary run through backyards close to the state line, but the consent of all landowners could not be obtained. On February 13, the Montvale council voted to approve a settlement whereby the eruv boundary would be placed on streets in the northern part of the borough, and efforts will be made to reroute it through private land. Montvale will pay the eruv association attorneys at Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP $10,000 towards legal costs and be shielded from further lawsuits from it for two years. Yehudah Buchweitz, an attorney for the eruv association, stated: \"Our lawsuit against Montvale was filed to permit an eruv in a small portion of Montvale, so families could enjoy the same religious freedom as so many others throughout Bergen and Rockland counties and beyond. This settlement preserves and protects the people's right to have an eruv.\" A map showing the eruv boundary's route through Montvale was posted on the borough website on March 1, 2018.\nAfter a closed-door meeting, the Upper Saddle River Borough Council voted on January 15 to attempt to reach a settlement with the plaintiffs. On February 21, the borough announced over its emergency notification system that it had reached a tentative agreement whereby the eruv boundary would be run along the roads until it could be relocated as close to the state line as possible. The borough stated that the agreement was being entered into \"because of a variety of reasons outside of the Borough’s control, including the recent settlements by Mahwah and Montvale\". The borough agreed to pay $75,000 towards the eruv association's legal costs. The agreement went into force on April 5, 2018. Under the agreement, 12 poles are to be erected on the municipal right-of-way to allow the eruv boundary to run on a shortened route through the borough, close to the state line. The lechis are to be made of black plastic, and the eruv association may not ask for a change of route for three years.\n\nOn February 15, 2018, Judge Vazquez accepted the Mahwah and Montvale settlements, and on April 19, that of Upper Saddle River. He retains continuing jurisdiction over the matters, and they can be re-opened if a dispute arises. A temporary eruv boundary was run across the original Upper Saddle River route, pending a final routing. On July 17, 2018, Upper Saddle River posted maps and stated that work on implementing the settlement would occur over the following several weeks. \nIn September 2018, a settlement between the Attorney General and Mahwah was announced. The township is to repeal the two controversial ordinances and agreed not to enact the new sign ordinance and to notify the Attorney General of any proposed legislation on these subjects for the following four years. The mayor and council are to issue a joint statement affirming that the existing sign ordinance, and those dealing with parks and recreation, will be enforced in a nondiscriminatory manner. A breach by Mahwah within the four year period could result in penalties of $100,000; a proposed $350,000 fine was suspended.\n\nOn November 6, 2018, Mahwah voters recalled Laforet from office, electing John Roth in his place. Hermansen was defeated for re-election, with Robert Ferguson among those elected to the new council.\n\n"}
{"id": "14425627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14425627", "title": "AD–AS model", "text": "AD–AS model\n\nThe AD–AS or aggregate demand–aggregate supply model is a macroeconomic model that explains price level and output through the relationship of aggregate demand and aggregate supply.\n\nIt is based on the theory of John Maynard Keynes presented in his work \"The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money\". It is one of the primary simplified representations in the modern field of macroeconomics, and is used by a broad array of economists, from libertarian, monetarist supporters of laissez-faire, such as Milton Friedman, to Post-Keynesian supporters of economic interventionism, such as Joan Robinson.\n\nThe conventional \"aggregate supply and demand\" model is, in actuality, a Keynesian visualization that has come to be a widely accepted image of the theory. The Classical supply and demand model, which is largely based on Say's law—that supply creates its own demand—depicts the aggregate supply curve as being vertical at all times (not just in the long-run)\n\nThe AD/AS model is used to illustrate the Keynesian model of the business cycle. Movements of the two curves can be used to predict the effects that various exogenous events will have on two variables: real GDP and the price level. Furthermore, the model can be incorporated as a component in any of a variety of dynamic models (models of how variables like the price level and others evolve over time). The AD–AS model can be related to the Phillips curve model of wage or price inflation and unemployment. A special case is a horizontal AS curve which means the price level is constant. The AD curve represents the locus of equilibria in the IS–LM model. The two models produce the same results with a constant price level.\n\nThe AD (aggregate demand) curve is defined by the IS–LM equilibrium income at different potential price levels. \nThe downward sloping AD curve is derived from the IS–LM model.\nIt shows the combinations of the price level and level of the output at which the goods and assets markets are simultaneously in equilibrium.\nThe above figure showing IS and LM curves, where LM curve shifts downward to the right to LM’ and thus shifting the new equilibrium to E’ where both goods and money market gets cleared. Now, the new output level Y’ correspond to the lower price level P’.\nThus a reduction in price, which is shown in the figure, leads to an increase in the equilibrium and spending.\n\nThe equation for the AD curve in general terms is:\n\nwhere Y is real GDP, M is the nominal money supply, P is the price level, G is real government spending, T is an exogenous component of real taxes levied, and Z is a vector of other exogenous variables that affect the location of the IS curve (exogenous influences on any component of spending) or the LM curve (exogenous influences on money demand). The real money supply has a positive effect on aggregate demand, as does real government spending (meaning that when the independent variable changes in one direction, aggregate demand changes in the same direction); the exogenous component of taxes has a negative effect on it.\n\nThe slope of AD curve reflects the extent to which the real balances change the equilibrium level of spending, taking both assets and goods markets into consideration.\nAn increase in real balances will lead to a larger increase in equilibrium income and spending, the smaller the interest responsiveness of money demand and the higher the interest responsiveness of investment demand.\nAn increase in real balances leads to a larger level of income and spending, the larger the value of multiplier and the smaller the income response of money demand.\n\nThis implies that:\nThe AD curve is flatter the smaller is the interest responsiveness of the demand for money and larger is the interest responsiveness of investment demand.\nAlso, the AD curve is flatter, the larger is the multiplier and the larger the income responsiveness of the demand for money.\n\nAn increase in the nominal money stock leads to a higher real money stock at each level of prices. In the asset market, the decrease in interest rates induces the public to hold higher real balances. It stimulates the aggregate demand and thereby increases the equilibrium level of income and spending.Thus, as we can see from the diagram, the aggregate demand curve shifts rightward in case of a monetary expansion.\n\nThe aggregate supply curve may reflect either labor market disequilibrium or labor market equilibrium. In either case, it shows how much output is supplied by firms at various potential price levels. The aggregate supply curve (AS curve) describes for each given price level, the quantity of output the firms plan to supply.\n\nThe Keynesian aggregate supply curve shows that the AS curve is significantly horizontal implying that the firm will supply whatever amount of goods is demanded at a particular price level during an economic depression. The idea behind that is because there is unemployment, firms can readily obtain as much labour as they want at that current wage and production can increase without any additional costs (e.g. machines are idle which can simply be turned on). Firms' average costs of production therefore are assumed not to change as their output level changes. This provides a rationale for Keynesians' support for government intervention. The total output of an economy can decline without the price level declining; this fact, in conjunction with the Keynesian belief of wages being inflexible downwards, clarifies the need for government stimulus. Since wages cannot readily adjust low enough for aggregate supply to shift outward and improve total output, the government must intervene to accomplish this result. However, the Keynesian aggregate supply curve also contains a normally upward-sloping region where aggregate supply responds accordingly to changes in price level. The upward slope is due to the law of diminishing returns as firms increase output, which states that it will become marginally more expensive to accomplish the same level of improvement in productive capacity as firms grow. It is also due to the scarcity of natural resources, the rarity of which causes increased production to also become more expensive. The vertical section of the Keynesian curve corresponds to the physical limit of the economy, where it is impossible to increase output.\n\nThe classical aggregate supply curve comprises a short-run aggregate supply curve and a vertical long-run aggregate supply curve. The short-run curve visualizes the total planned output of goods and services in the economy at a particular price level. The \"short-run\" is defined as the period during which only final good prices adjust and factor, or input, costs do not. The \"long-run\" is the period after which factor prices are able to adjust accordingly. The short-run aggregate supply curve has an upward slope for the same reasons the Keynesian AS curve has one: the law of diminishing returns and the scarcity of resources. The long-run aggregate supply curve is vertical because factor prices will have adjusted. Factor prices increase if producing at a point beyond full employment output, shifting the short-run aggregate supply inwards so equilibrium occurs somewhere along full employment output. Monetarists have argued that demand-side expansionary policies favoured by Keynesian economists are solely inflationary. As the aggregate demand curve is shifted outward, the general price level increases. This increased price level causes households, or the owners of the factors of production to demand higher prices for their goods and services. The consequence of this is increased production costs for firms, causing short-run aggregate demand to shift back inwards. The theoretical ultimate result is inflation.\n\nThe mainstream AS-AD model contains both a long-run aggregate supply curve (LRAS) and a short-run aggregate supply (SRAS) curve essentially combining the classical and Keynesian models. In the short run wages and other resource prices are sticky and slow to adjust to new price levels. This gives way to the upward sloping SRAS. In the long-run, resource prices adjust to the price level bringing the economy back to a full employment output; along vertical LRAS.\n\nThe Keynesian model, in which there is no long-run aggregate supply curve and the classical model, in the case of the short-run aggregate supply curve, are affected by the same determinants. Any event that results in a change of production costs shifts the curves outwards or inwards if production costs are decreased or increased, respectively. Some factors which affect short-run production costs include: taxes and subsidies, price of labour (wages), and price of raw materials. These factors shift short-run curves \"exclusively\". Changes in the quantity and quality of labour and capital affect both long-run and short-run supply curves. A greater quantity of labour or capital corresponds to a lower price for both. A greater quality in labour or capital corresponds to a greater output per worker or machine.\n\nThe long-run aggregate supply curve of the classical model is affected by events that affect the potential output of the economy. Factors revolve around changes in the quality and quantity of factors of production.\n\nKeynesian Case:\nIf there is a fiscal expansion i.e. there is an increase in the government spending or a cut in the taxes, it will shift the AD curve rightwards. The shift would then imply an increase in the equilibrium output and employment.\n\nIn the Classical case, the AS curve is vertical at the full employment level of output. Firms will supply the equilibrium level of output whatever the price level may be.\n\nNow, the fiscal expansion shifts the AD curve rightwards, thus leading to an increase in the demand for goods, but the firms cannot increase the output as there is no labour force which can be obtained.\nAs firms try to hire more labour, they bid up wages and their costs of production and thus they charge higher prices for the output.\nThe increase in prices reduces the real money stock and leads to an increase in the interest rates and reduction in spending.\n\nThe equation for the aggregate supply curve in general terms for the case of excess supply in the labor market, called the short-run aggregate supply curve, is\n\nwhere W is the nominal wage rate (exogenous due to stickiness in the short run), P is the anticipated (expected) price level, and Z is a vector of exogenous variables that can affect the position of the labor demand curve (the capital stock or the current state of technological knowledge). The real wage has a negative effect on firms' employment of labor and hence on aggregate supply. The price level relative to its expected level has a positive effect on aggregate supply because of firms' mistakes in production plans due to mis-predictions of prices.\n\nThe long-run aggregate supply curve refers not to a time frame in which the capital stock is free to be set optimally (as would be the terminology in the micro-economic theory of the firm), but rather to a time frame in which wages are free to adjust in order to equilibrate the labor market and in which price anticipations are accurate. In this case the nominal wage rate is endogenous and so does not appear as an independent variable in the aggregate supply equation. The long-run aggregate supply equation is simply\n\nand is vertical at the full-employment level of output. In this long-run case, Z also includes factors affecting the position of the labor supply curve (such as population), since in labor market equilibrium the location of labor supply affects the labor market outcome.\n\nThe following summarizes the exogenous events that could shift the aggregate supply or aggregate demand curve to the right. Exogenous events happening in the opposite direction would shift the relevant curve in the opposite direction.\n\nThe following exogenous events would shift the aggregate demand curve to the right. As a result, the price level would go up. In addition if the time frame of analysis is the short run, so the aggregate supply curve is upward sloping rather than vertical, real output would go up; but in the long run with aggregate supply vertical at full employment, real output would remain unchanged.\n\nRightward aggregate demand shifts emanating from the IS curve:\n\nRightward aggregate demand shifts emanating from the LM curve:\n\nThe following exogenous events would shift the short-run aggregate supply curve to the right. As a result, the price level would drop and real GDP would increase.\n\nThe following events would shift the long-run aggregate supply curve to the right:\n\n\nFor example, a shock increase in the price of oil is felt by producers as an increase in the factors of production. This shifts the supply curve upward by raising expected inflation. This slows the adjustment of the AS curve back to its steady state. As the inflation slowly falls, so will the AS curve back to its steady state.\n\nThe modern quantity theory states that the price level is directly affected by the quantity of money.\nFriedman is the recognized intellectual leader of an influential group of economists, called Monetarists, who emphasize the role of money and monetary policy in affecting the behaviour of output and prices.\nModern quantity theory also disagrees with the strict quantity theory in not believing that the supply curve is vertical in the short run.\nThus, Friedman and other monetarists made an important distinction between the short run and long run effects of changes in money. They said that in the long run money is more or less neutral. Changes in the nominal money stock have no real effects and only change prices. But in the short run, they argue that the monetary policy and changes in the money stock can have important real effects.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1791641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1791641", "title": "Amende honorable", "text": "Amende honorable\n\nAmende honorable was originally a mode of punishment in France which required the offender, barefoot and stripped to his shirt, and led into a church or auditory with a torch in his hand and a rope round his neck held by the public executioner, to beg pardon on his knees of his God, his king, and his country; now used to denote a satisfactory apology or reparation. Amende honorable forbade revenge.\n\nThe \"amende honorable\" was sometimes incorporated into a larger ritual of capital punishment (specifically the French version of drawing and quartering) for parricides and regicides; this is described in the 1975 book \"Discipline and Punish\" by Michel Foucault, notably in reference to Robert-François Damiens who was condemned to make the \"amende honorable\" before the main door of the Church of Paris in 1757.\n"}
{"id": "44849453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44849453", "title": "Arjava", "text": "Arjava\n\nĀrjava (Sanskrit: आर्जव) literally means sincerity, straightness and non-hypocrisy. It is one of the ten Yamas in ancient Hindu and Jaina texts.\n\n\"Ārjava\" means straightness, sincerity and harmony in one’s thought, words and actions towards oneself and towards others. Kane translates \"arjava\" as straightforwardness. It is explained in ancient Indian texts as “self-restraint from hypocrisy\", and \"the absence of hypocrisy”. It is included as one of several ethical virtuous restraints in an individual's path to spirituality. The Maharashtrian poet Vāmana in Avigita, at xvi.1, posits \"arjava\" is a form of honesty and purity in a person, and an essential virtue so that one may treat everyone equally, whether that other is one’s child, wife, relative, friend, a stranger, someone hostile or oneself without any discrimination.\n\nThe ethical concept of \"Arjava\" is synonymously referred to as \"Adambha\" (अदम्भ, composite word from अ+दम्भ). Adambha also means non-deceitful, straightforwardness and sincerity. It is listed as a virtue in the Indian Epics.\n\nArjava is one of the ten yamas listed by Śāṇḍilya Upanishad, as well as by Svātmārāma. It is one of the virtuous restraints (yamas) taught in ancient Indian texts. The other nine yamas are Ahiṃsā (अहिंसा): Nonviolence, Satya (सत्य): truthfulness, Asteya (अस्तेय): not stealing, Brahmacharya (ब्रह्मचर्य): celibacy and not cheating on one’s spouse, Kṣamā (क्षमा): forgiveness, Dhṛti (धृति): fortitude, Dayā (दया): compassion, Mitāhāra (मितहार): measured diet, and Śauca (शौच): purity, cleanliness.\n\nIn some texts, such as by Adi Sankara, this virtue is called as \"bhavasamsuddhi\", and explained as purity of motive and freedom of mind from hypocrisy, both in one’s social conduct, as well as within oneself where one’s thoughts, words and actions resonate. It is considered as a virtue that empowers one to act and live without anxiety, anger, prejudice, inner conflict or confusion. It is also discussed in Bhagwad Gita in verse 17.16.\n\nThe Mahabharata, in Book 12 Chapter 60, lists \"Adambha\" (non-hypocrisy) as a virtue along with \"Akrodha\" (non-anger), \"Kshama\" (forgiveness) and others. In the same book, in Chapter 278, the Epic explains how and why hypocrisy arises, suggesting that it is a derivative of the sin of covetousness, greed and attachment to superficial possessions. Patanjali's treatise on Yoga lists only five yamas, which includes non-covetousness and non-possessiveness (\"Asteya\" and \"Aparigraha\" respectively), but does not include \"Arjava\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3691751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3691751", "title": "Asset-based egalitarianism", "text": "Asset-based egalitarianism\n\nAsset-based egalitarianism is a form of egalitarianism which theorises that equality is possible by a redistribution of resources, usually in the form of a capital grant provided at the age of majority. Names for the implementation of this theory in policy include universal basic capital and stakeholding, and are generally synonymous within the equal opportunity egalitarian framework.\n\nThe idea has been around since Thomas Paine (January 29, 1737 – June 8, 1809) in his work \"Agrarian Justice\" 1795, and complemented his other thesis of basic income.\n\nTwo independent schools of thought were developed on the subject, involving individuals from the American Labour Movement and scholars of the Belgian School. However, the same reasoning (given by both schools) behind the basic capital proposal is the redistribution of wealth usually funded by an inheritance tax in order to provide a universal and unconditional sum of money (or capital assets) at the age of majority. From most authors, the intention was to create a nominal grant for everyone based on a deserved natural inheritance of the earth.\n\nIn the policy format, asset-based egalitarianism is usually seen as the opposite policy proposal of Philippe Van Parijs and his thesis of basic income, but asset-based egalitarian proposals have received less academic attention. However, more recently the wave of third way politics has seen much more emphasis placed on responsibility and equality of opportunity and has reopened an old debate.\n\nSome famous recent work on the policy efficaciousness of universal basic capital or asset-based egalitarianism has been conducted by Bruce Ackerman and Anne Alstott in \"The Stakeholder Society\". In this policy proposal, the method of funding the 'stake' was by means of a wealth tax and provides a sum of $80,000 for those reaching the age of majority.\n\nIn actual policy, Gordon Brown and the British Labour Party initiated the United Kingdom Child Trust Fund, while in the United States the idea has been implemented in the form of Individual Development Accounts and argued for by Michael Sherraden. These remain the nearest practical examples.\n\nOne of the motivations of the related policy such as the Child Trust Fund is clear from this excerpt:\n\nAsset-based egalitarian policies, such as the Ackerman and Alstott proposals, are often criticised as not being egalitarian. Due to different people having different abilities and talents to utilise financial wealth, there is always a risk that those without formal financial education would alienate their own freedom by dissipating their capital or \"stakeblowing\". Stuart White argued that unless education corrected for this, there would be an inegalitarian outcome, as people fundamentally have different asset-management capacities. See Time preference and Deferred gratification.\n\n"}
{"id": "8859696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8859696", "title": "Associative entity", "text": "Associative entity\n\nAn associative entity is a term used in relational and entity–relationship theory. A relational database requires the implementation of a base relation (or base table) to resolve many-to-many relationships. A base relation representing this kind of entity is called, informally, an associative table. \n\nAs mentioned above, associative entities are implemented in a database structure using associative tables, which are tables that can contain references to columns from the same or different database tables within the same database.\nAn associative (or junction) table maps two or more tables together by referencing the primary keys of each data table. In effect, it contains a number of foreign keys, each in a many-to-one relationship from the junction table to the individual data tables. The PK of the associative table is typically composed of the FK columns themselves.\n\nAssociative tables are colloquially known under many names, including association table, bridge table, cross-reference table, crosswalk, intermediary table, intersection table, join table, junction table, link table, linking table, many-to-many resolver, map table, mapping table, pairing table, pivot table (as used incorrectly in Laravel - not to be confused with the correct use of pivot table in spreadsheets), or transition table.\n\nAn example of the practical use of an associative table would be to assign permissions to users. There can be multiple users, and each user can be assigned zero or more permissions. Individual permissions may be granted to one or more users. \n\nA SELECT-statement on a junction table usually involves joining the main table with the junction table:\nThis will return a list of all users and their permissions.\n\nInserting into a junction table involves multiple steps: first inserting into the main table(s), then updating the junction table.\n\nUsing foreign keys, the database will automatically dereference the values of the UserPermissions table to their own tables.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40437958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40437958", "title": "Cambridge School (intellectual history)", "text": "Cambridge School (intellectual history)\n\nIn intellectual history and the history of political thought, the Cambridge School is a loose historiographical movement traditionally associated with the University of Cambridge, where many of those associated with the School held or continue to hold academic positions, including Quentin Skinner, J. G. A. Pocock, Peter Laslett, John Dunn and James Tully, as well as David Runciman and Raymond Geuss.\n\nThe Cambridge School can broadly be characterised as a historicist or contextualist mode of interpretation, placing primary emphasis on the historical conditions and the intellectual context of the discourse of a given historical era, and opposing the perceived anachronism of conventional methods of interpretation, which it believes often distort the significance of texts and ideas by reading them in terms of distinctively modern understandings of social and political life. In these terms, the Cambridge School is 'idealist' in the sense that it accepts ideas as constitutive elements of human history in themselves, and hence contradicts social-scientific positivism in historiography.\n\nThe text often held as the original declaration of the principles of the School is Quentin Skinner's 1969 article 'Meaning and Understanding in the History of Ideas'. Here, Skinner attacks what he describes as two \"orthodoxies\": \"perennialism\", the view that philosophers have always debated the same fundamental questions; and the notion that context is irrelevant to a historical understanding of texts, which can be read as self-standing material. In Mark Bevir's words, Skinner and his colleagues \"defended the history of political theory against both reductionists who dismissed ideas as mere epiphenomena and canonical theorists who approached texts as timeless philosophical works\".\n\nThe school has been criticised on a number of fronts. On the one hand, historians working in more materialist contexts such as social history have criticised the school's focus on ideas. Christopher Goto-Jones has argued that the school has developed in an orientalist direction by neglecting non-Western contributions to intellectual history.\n\n"}
{"id": "4481195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4481195", "title": "Comparative cultural studies", "text": "Comparative cultural studies\n\nComparative cultural studies is a contextual approach to the study of culture in a global and intercultural context. Focus is placed on the theory, method, and application of the study process(es) rather than on the \"what\" of the object(s) of study.\n\nIn comparative cultural studies, selected tenets of comparative literature are merged with selected tenets of the field of cultural studies (including culture theories, (radical) constructivism, communication theories, and systems theories) with the objective to study culture and culture products (including but not restricted to literature, communication, media, art, etc.). This is performed in a contextual and relational construction and with a plurality of methods and approaches, interdisciplinary, and, if and when required, including teamwork. In comparative cultural studies, it is the processes of communicative action(s) in culture and the how of these processes that constitute the main objectives of research and study. However, scholarship in comparative cultural studies does not exclude textual analysis proper of other established fields of study. In comparative cultural studies, ideally, the framework of and methodologies available in the systemic and empirical study of culture are favored. Scholarship in comparative cultural studies includes the theoretical, as well as methodological and applied postulate to move and to dialogue between cultures, languages, literature, and disciplines: attention to other cultures against essentialist notions and practices and beyond the paradigm of the nation-state is a basic and founding element of the framework and its application.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4148868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4148868", "title": "Crash simulation", "text": "Crash simulation\n\nA crash simulation is a virtual recreation of a destructive crash test of a car or a highway guard rail system using a computer simulation in order to examine the level of safety of the car and its occupants. Crash simulations are used by automakers during computer-aided engineering (CAE) analysis for crashworthiness in the computer-aided design (CAD) process of modelling new cars. During a crash simulation, the kinetic energy, or energy of motion, that a vehicle has before the impact is transformed into deformation energy, mostly by plastic deformation (plasticity) of the car body material (Body in White), at the end of the impact.\n\nData obtained from a crash simulation indicate the capability of the car body or guard rail structure to protect the vehicle occupants during a collision (and also pedestrians hit by a car) against injury. Important results are the deformations (for example, steering wheel intrusions) of the occupant space (driver, passengers) and the decelerations (for example, head acceleration) felt by them, which must fall below threshold values fixed in legal car safety regulations. To model real crash tests, today's crash simulations include virtual models of crash test dummies and of passive safety devices (seat belts, airbags, shock absorbing dash boards, etc.). Guide rail tests evaluate vehicle deceleration and rollover potential, as well as penetration of the barrier by vehicles.\n\nIn the years 1970 attempts were made to simulate car crash events with non-linear spring-mass systems after calibration, which require as an input the results of physical destructive laboratory tests, needed to determine the mechanical crushing behavior of each spring component of the modeled system. \"First principle\" simulations like more elaborate finite element models, however, need only the definition of the structural geometry and the basic material properties (rheology of car body steel, glass, plastic parts, etc.) as an input to generate the numerical model.\n\nThe origins of industrial first principle computerized car crash simulation lie in military defense, outer space and civil nuclear power plant applications. Upon presentation of a simulation of the accidental crash of a military fighter plane into a nuclear power plant on May 30, 1978 by ESI Group in a meeting organized by the Verein Deutscher Ingenieure (VDI) in Stuttgart, car makers became alerted to the possibility of using this technology for the simulation of destructive car crash tests (Haug 1981).\nIn the following years, German car makers produced more complex crash simulation studies, simulating the crash behavior of individual car body components, component assemblies, and quarter and half car bodies in white (BIW). These experiments culminated in a joint project by the Forschungsgemeinschaft Automobil-Technik (FAT), a conglomeration of all seven German car makers (Audi, BMW, Ford, Mercedes-Benz, Opel, Porsche, and Volkswagen), which tested the applicability of two emerging commercial crash simulation codes. These simulation codes recreated a frontal impact of a full passenger car structure (Haug 1986) and they ran to completion on a computer overnight. Now that turn-around time between two consecutive job-submissions (computer runs) did not exceed one day, engineers were able to make efficient and progressive improvements of the crash behavior of the analyzed car body structure.\n\nCrash simulations are used to investigate the safety of the car occupants during impacts on the front end structure of the car in a \"head-on collision\" or \"frontal impact\", the lateral structure of the car in a “side collision” or “side impact”, the rear end structure of a car in a \"rear-end collision\" or “rear impact”, and the roof structure of the car when it overturns during a \"rollover\". Crash simulations can also be used to assess injury to pedestrians hit by a car.\n\nA crash simulation produces results without actual destructive testing of a new car model. This way, tests can be performed quickly and inexpensively in a computer, which permits optimization of the design before a real prototype of the car has been manufactured. Using a simulation, problems can be solved before spending time and money on an actual crash test. The great flexibility of printed output and graphical display enables designers to solve some problems that would have been nearly impossible without the help of a computer.\n\nLarge number of crash simulations use a method of analysis called the Finite Element Method. The complex problems are solved by dividing a surface into a large but still finite number of elements and determining the motion of these elements over very small periods of time. Another approach to crash simulations is performed by application of Macro Element Method. The difference between two mentioned above methodologies is that the structure in case of Macro Element Method consists of smaller number of elements. The calculation algorithm of structure deformation is based on experimental data rather than calculated from partial differential equations.\nPam-Crash started crash simulation and together with LS-DYNA is a software package which is widely used for application of Finite Element Method. This method allows detailed modeling of a structure, but the disadvantage lies in high processing unit requirements and calculation time. \nThe Visual Crash Studio uses Macro Element Methodology. In comparison with FEM it has some modeling and boundary condition limitations but its application does not require advanced computers and the calculation time is incomparably smaller. Two presented methods complement each other. Macro Element Method is useful at early stage of the structure design process while Finite Element Method performs well at its final stages.\n\nIn a typical crash simulation, the car body structure is analyzed using spatial discretization, that is, breaking up the continuous movement of the body in real time into smaller changes in position over small, discrete time steps. The discretization involves subdividing the surface of the constituent, thin, sheet metal parts into a large number (approaching one million in 2006) of quadrilateral or triangular regions, each of which spans the area between \"nodes\" to which its corners are fixed. Each element has mass, which is distributed as concentrated masses and as mass moments of inertia to its connecting nodes. Each node has 6 kinematic degrees of freedom, that is, one node can move in three linear directions under translation and can rotate about three independent axes. The spatial coordinates (\"x\"), displacement (\"u\"), velocity (\"v\"), and acceleration (\"a\") of each node is mostly expressed in a three-dimensional rectangular Cartesian coordinate system with axes \"X\",\"Y\", and \"Z\".\n\nIf the nodes move during a crash simulation, the connected elements move, stretch, and bend with their nodes, which causes them to impart forces and moments to their nodal connections. The forces and moments at the nodes correspond to the inertia forces and moments, caused by their translational (linear) and angular accelerations and to the forces and moments transmitted by the resistance of the structural material of the connected elements as they deform. Sometimes, additional external structural loads are applied, like gravity loads from the self weight of the parts, or added loads from external masses.\n\nThe forces and moments of all nodes are collected into a column vector (or column matrix), and the time dependent equations of motion (in dynamic equilibrium) can be written as follows.\nwhere vector formula_2 (mass times acceleration vector) collects the inertia forces at the nodes, formula_3 collects the external nodal loads, and formula_4 collects the internal resisting forces from the deformation of the material. \"M\" is a diagonal matrix of the nodal masses. Each vector (\"u\", \"v\", \"a\", \"F\", etc.) has dimension 6 times the total number of nodes in the crash model (about 6 million “degrees of freedom” for every 1 million \"nodes\" in 3-D thin shell finite element models).\n\nA crash simulation uses time discretization as well to separate the continuous changes in time into very small, usable segments. The dynamic equations of motion hold at all times during a crash simulation and must be integrated in time, \"t\", starting from an initial condition at time zero, which is just prior to the crash. According to the explicit finite difference time integration method used by most crash codes, the accelerations, velocities, and displacements of the body are related by the following equations.\nIn these equations the subscripts \"n\"±1/2, \"n\", \"n\"+1 denote past, present, and future times, \"t\", at half and full-time intervals with time steps formula_8 and formula_9, respectively.\n\nThe above system of linear equations is solved for the accelerations, formula_10, the velocities, formula_11, and the displacements, formula_12, at each discrete point in time, \"t\", during the crash duration. This solution is trivial, since the mass matrix is diagonal. The computer time is proportional to the number of finite elements and the number of solution time steps. The stable solution time step, formula_13, is limited for numerical stability, as expressed by the Courant–Friedrichs–Lewy condition (CFL), which states that “in any time-marching computer simulation, the time step must be less than the time for some significant action to occur, and preferably considerably less.\" In a crash simulation, the fastest significant actions are the acoustic signals that travel inside the structural material.\n\nThe solid elastic stress wave speed amounts to\nwhere formula_15 is the initial elastic modulus (before plastic deformation) of the material and formula_16 is the mass density. The largest stable time step for a given material is therefore\nwhere formula_18 is the smallest distance between any two nodes of the numerical crash simulation model.\n\nSince this distance can change during a simulation, the stable time step changes and must be updated continually as the solution proceeds in time. When using steel, the typical value of the stable time step is about one microsecond when the smallest discrete node distance in the mesh of the finite element model is about 5 millimeters. It needs then more than 100,000 time intervals to solve a crash event that lasts for one tenth of a second. This figure is exceeded in many industrial crash models demanding optimized crash solvers with High-Performance Computing (HPC) features, such as vectorization and parallel computing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1077353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1077353", "title": "Curiosity", "text": "Curiosity\n\nCuriosity (from Latin \"cūriōsitās\", from \"cūriōsus\" \"careful, diligent, curious\", akin to \"cura\" \"care\") is a quality related to inquisitive thinking such as exploration, investigation, and learning, evident by observation in humans and other animals. Curiosity is heavily associated with all aspects of human development, in which derives the process of learning and desire to acquire knowledge and skill.\n\nThe term \"curiosity\" can also be used to denote the behavior or emotion of being curious, in regard to the desire to gain knowledge or information. Curiosity as a behavior and emotion is attributed over millennia as the driving force behind not only human development, but developments in science, language, and industry.\n\nCuriosity can be seen as an innate quality of many different species. It is common to human beings at all ages from infancy through adulthood, and is easy to observe in many other animal species; these include apes, cats, and rodents. Early definitions cite curiosity as a motivated desire for information. This motivational desire has been said to stem from a passion or an appetite for knowledge, information, and understanding.\n\nThese traditional ideas of curiosity have recently expanded to look at the difference between \"curiosity as the innate exploratory behavior\" that is present in all animals and \"curiosity as the desire for knowledge\" that is specifically attributed to humans.\n\nLike other desires and need states that take on an appetitive quality (e.g. food), curiosity is linked with exploratory behavior and experiences of reward. Curiosity can be described as positive emotions and acquiring knowledge; when one's curiosity has been aroused it is considered inherently rewarding and pleasurable. Discovering new information may also be rewarding because it can help reduce undesirable states of uncertainty rather than stimulating interest. Theories have arisen in attempts to further understand this need to rectify states of uncertainty and the desire to participate in pleasurable experiences of exploratory behaviors.\n\nCuriosity-drive theory relates to the undesirable experiences of \"uncertainty\". The reduction of these unpleasant feelings, in turn, is rewarding. This theory suggests that people desire coherence and understanding in their thought processes. When this coherence is disrupted by something that is unfamiliar, uncertain, or ambiguous, it is curiosity-drive that attempts to gather information and knowledge of the unfamiliar to restore coherent thought processes. Through this theory, the general concept dictates that curiosity is developed strictly out of the desire to make sense of unfamiliar aspects of one's environment through interaction of exploratory behaviors. Once understanding of the unfamiliar has been achieved and coherence has been restored, these behaviors and desires will subside.\n\nSubsets of curiosity-drive theory differ on whether curiosity is a primary or secondary drive and if this curiosity-drive is originated due to one's need to make sense of and regulate their environment or if it is caused by an external stimulus. Causes can range from basic needs that need to be satisfied (e.g. hunger, thirst) to needs in fear induced situations. Each of these subset theories state that whether the need is primary or secondary curiosity is developed from experiences that create a sensation of uncertainty or perceived unpleasantness. Curiosity then acts as a means in which to dispel this uncertainty. By exhibiting curious and exploratory behavior, one is able to gain knowledge of the unfamiliar and thus reduce the state of uncertainty or unpleasantness. This theory, however, does not address the idea that curiosity can often be displayed even in the absence of new or unfamiliar situations. This type of exploratory behavior is common in many species. Take the example of a human toddler who, if bored in his current situation devoid of arousing stimuli, will walk about until something interesting is found. The observation of curiosity even in the absence of novel stimuli pinpoints one of the major shortcomings in the curiosity-drive model.\n\nOptimal-arousal theory developed out of the need to explain the desire for some to seek out opportunities to engage in exploratory behaviors without the presence of uncertain or ambiguous situations. Optimal-arousal theory attempts to explain this aspect of curiosity by suggesting that one can be motivated to maintain a pleasurable sense of arousal through these exploratory behaviors.\n\nThe concept of optimal-arousal of curiosity suggests that the desire is to maintain an optimal level of arousal. If the stimulus is too intensely arousing, a \"back-away\" type behavior is engaged. In contrast, if the environment is boring and lacks excitement, exploratory behavior will be engaged until something optimally arousing is encountered. In essence, there is an intrinsic motivation to search for a perfect balance of arousal states. This idea attempts to address the observed behaviors of curiosity even in the absence of uncertain or unfamiliar situations. While optimal-arousal theory addresses some discrepancies within curiosity-drive theory, there seems to be a distinctive counter-intuitiveness about their designs. For example, if there is an ideal state of curiosity that should be maintained, then gaining new knowledge to eliminate that state of curiosity would be counter-productive.\n\nTaking into account the shortcomings of both curiosity-drive and optimal-arousal theories, attempts have been made to integrate neurobiological aspects of reward, wanting, and pleasure into a more comprehensive theory for curiosity. Research suggests that the act of wanting and desiring new information directly involves mesolimbic pathways of the brain that directly account for dopamine activation. The use of these pathways and dopamine activation may account for the assigning of value to new information and then interpreting as reward. This aspect of neurobiology can accompany curiosity-drive theory in motivating exploratory behavior.\n\nAlthough the phenomenon of curiosity is widely regarded, its root causes are relatively unknown beyond theory. However, recent studies have provided some insight into the neurological mechanisms that make up what is known as the reward pathway which may impact characteristics associated with curiosity, such as learning, memory, and motivation. Due to the complex nature of curiosity, research that focuses on specific neural processes with these characteristics can help create a better understanding the phenomenon of curiosity as a whole. The following are characteristics of curiosity and their links to neural aspects that can be thought of as essential in creating exploratory behaviors:\n\nThe drive to learn new information or perform some action is often initiated by the anticipation of reward. In this way, the concepts of motivation and reward are naturally tied to the notion of curiosity.\n\nThis idea of reward is defined as the positive reinforcement of an action that encourages a particular behavior by using the emotional sensations of relief, pleasure, and satisfaction that correlate with happiness. Many areas in the brain are used to process reward and come together to form what is called the reward pathway. In this pathway many neurotransmitters play a role in the activation of the reward sensation- including dopamine, serotonin and opioid chemicals.\n\nDopamine is linked to the process of curiosity, as it is responsible for assigning and retaining reward values of information gained. Research suggests higher amounts of dopamine is released when the reward is unknown and the stimulus is unfamiliar, compared to activation of dopamine when stimulus is familiar.\n\nThe nucleus accumbens is a formation of neurons and is important in reward pathway activation. As previously mentioned, the reward pathway is an integral part in the induction of curiosity. The release of dopamine in investigating response to novel or exciting stimuli. The fast dopamine release observed during childhood and adolescence is important in development, as curiosity and exploratory behavior are the largest facilitators of learning during early years.\n\nIn addition, the sensation pleasure of \"liking\" can occur when opioids are released by nucleus accumbens. This helps someone evaluate the unfamiliar situation or environment and attach value to the novel object. These processes of both wanting and liking play a role in activating the reward system of the brain, and perhaps in the stimulation of curious or information-seeking tendencies as well.\n\nThe caudate nucleus, is a region of the brain that is highly responsive to dopamine. The caudate nucleus is another component of the reward pathway. Research has suggested the role of the caudate nucleus anticipates the possibility of and is in anticipation of reward of exploratory behavior and gathered information, thus contributing to factors of curiosity.\n\nRegions of the anterior cortices correspond to both conflict and arousal and, as such, seem to reinforce certain exploratory models of curiosity.\n\nCortisol is a chemical known for its role in stress regulation. However, cortisol may also be associated with curious or exploratory behavior. Findings in recent studies suggesting the role of cortisol with curiosity support the idea of optimal arousal theory. It is suggested the release of a small amount cortisol causing stress encourages curious behavior, while too much stress can initiate a \"back away\" response.\n\nAttention is important to the understanding of curiosity because it directly correlates with one's abilities to selectively focus and concentrate on particular stimuli in the surrounding environment. As there are limited cognitive and sensory resources to understand and evaluate various stimuli, attention allows the brain to better focus on what it perceives to be the most important or relevant of these stimuli. Individuals tend to focus their energies on stimuli that are particularly stimulating or engaging. Indicating that the more attention a stimulus garners, the more frequent one's energy and focus will be directed towards that stimulus. This idea suggests an individual will focus their attention on new or unfamiliar stimuli in an effort to better understand or make sense of the unknown over the more familiar or repetitive stimuli. Creating the idea that curiosity demands attention.\n\nThe striatum, is a part of the brain which coordinates motivation with body movement. It would seem natural that the striatum plays a role in attention and reward anticipation, both of which are important in the provocation of curiosity.\n\nThe precuneus is a region of the brain that is involved in attention, episodic memory, and visuospatial processing. There has been a correlation found between the amount of grey matter in the precuneus and levels of curious and exploratory behaviors; suggesting that the precuneus density has an influence on levels of curiosity.\n\nMemory plays an important role in the understanding of curiosity. If curiosity is the desire to seek out and understand unfamiliar or novel stimuli, one's memory is important in determining if the stimuli is indeed unfamiliar.\n\nMemory is the process by which the brain can store and access information. In order to determine if the stimulus is novel, an individual must remember if the stimulus has been encountered before. Thus, memory plays an integral role in dictating the level of novelty or unfamiliarity, and the level of need for curiosity.\n\nIt can also be suggested that curiosity can affect memory. As previously mentioned, stimuli that are novel tend to capture more of our attention. Additionally, novel stimuli usually have a reward value associated with them, the anticipated reward of what learning that new information may bring. With stronger associations and more attention devoted to a stimulus, it is probable that the memory formed from that stimulus will be longer lasting and easier to recall, both of which facilitate better learning.\n\nThe hippocampus is important in memory formation and recall and therefore instrumental in determining the novelty of various stimuli. Research suggests the hippocampus is involved in generating the underlying motivation to explore for the purpose of learning.\n\nThe parahippocampal gyrus (PHG), the area of grey matter surrounding the hippocampus, has recently been implicated in the process of curiosity. This finding suggests that the PHG may be involved in the amplification of curiosity more so than the primary induction of curiosity.\n\nThe amygdala, often is associated with emotional processing, particularly for the emotion of fear, as well as memory. It is suggested the amygdala is important in processing emotional reactions towards novel or unexpected stimuli and the induction of exploratory behavior. This implies a potential connection between curiosity levels and the amygdala. However, more research is needed on direct correlation.\n\nPiaget is considered to be the most influential child researcher. He argued that babies and children are constantly trying to make sense of their reality and that it contributed to their intellectual development. According to Piaget, children develop hypotheses, conduct experiments and then reassess their hypotheses depending on what they observe. Piaget was the first to closely document children's actions and interpret them as consistent, calculated effort to test and learn about their environment.\n\nThere is no universally accepted definition for curiosity in children. Most research on curiosity has been focused on adults and which typically used self-report measures are inappropriate and inapplicable for studying children. Curiosity is mostly thought of as attributable to a mature person and is characterized in young children as a fledgling feature of their outlook on the world.\n\nExploratory behaviour is commonly observed in children and is associated with their curiosity development. Several studies look at children's curiosity by simply observing their interaction with novel and familiar toys.\nThere has been evidence found of a relationship between the anxiety children might feel and their curiosity. One study found that object curiosity in 11-year-olds was negatively related to psychological maladjusted so children who exhibit more anxiety in classroom settings engaged in less curious behaviour. It has also been suggested that certain aspects of classroom learning is dependent on curiosity which can be affected by students' anxiety .\n\nOther measures of childhood curiosity have used exploratory behaviour as a basis but differing on how which parts of this behaviour is best to focus on. Some studies have examined children's preference for complexity/the unknown as a basis for their curiosity measure; others have relied on novelty preference as their basis.\n\nResearchers have also looked at the relationship between a child's reaction to surprise and curiosity. It has been suggested that children are further motivated to learn when dealing with uncertainty. It is argued that their reactions to not having their expectations met would fuel their curiosity more than the introduction of a novel or complex object would.\n\nThere is a widely held belief that children's curiosity becomes discouraged throughout the process of formal education: \"Children are born scientists. From the first ball they send flying to the ant they watch carry a crumb, children use science's tools—enthusiasm, hypotheses, tests, conclusions—to uncover the world's mysteries. But somehow students seem to lose what once came naturally.\" \n\nSir Ken Robinson discusses a similar phenomenon in his TED Talk titled \"Do schools kill creativity?\" When curiosity in young people leads to knowledge-gathering it is widely seen as a positive. However curiosity according to some researchers is also at times seen as dangerous, for instance when concerns arise around opposite-sex siblings sharing a room, etc.\n\nDifferent neurodegenerative diseases or other psychological disorders can affect various characteristics of curiosity, for instance Alzheimer's disease's effects on memory or depression on motivation and reward. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease that directly affects the capability and capacity for memory. Depression is a mood disorder that is characterized by a lack of interest in one's environment and feelings of sadness or hopelessness. \nA lack of curiosity for novel stimuli might also be used as a potential predictor for these and other illnesses.\n\nA morbid curiosity exemplifies an aspect of curiosity that can be seen as focused on objects of death, violence, or any other event that may cause harm physically or emotionally.\n\nThe idea of morbid curiosity typically is described as having an addictive quality. This addictive aspect of the need to understand or make sense of topics that surround harm, violence or death can be attributed to the idea of one's need to relate unusual and often difficult circumstances to a primary emotion or experience of their own, described as meta-emotions.\n\nUnderstanding these difficult circumstances dates back to Aristotle in his \"Poetics\", stating \"enjoy contemplating the most precise images of things whose sight is painful to us\".\n\nThere are two distinct classifications of types of curiosity: state and trait curiosity. Both of these types determine whether curiosity comes from within or outside of a person. State curiosity is external such as wondering why things happen for the sake of just curiousness, for example, wondering why most stores open at 8 a.m. This type of curiosity tends to be the most relatable for people on a day-to-day basis since state curiosity relates to high levels of reward. On the other hand, trait curiosity relates to people who are interested in learning. Generally, it could be trying out a new sport or food, or traveling to a new unknown place. One can look at curiosity as the urge that draws people out of their comfort zones and fears as the agent that keeps them within those zones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33849304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33849304", "title": "Economic citizenship", "text": "Economic citizenship\n\nEconomic citizenship can be used to represent both the economic contributions requisite to become a citizen as well as the role in which one's economic standing can influence his or her rights as a citizen. The relationship between economic participation and citizenship can be considered a contributing factor to increasing inequalities and unequal representation of different socioeconomic classes within a country.\n\nThe republican model of citizenship emphasizes one’s active participation in civil society as a means of defining his or her citizenship. Initially used to describe citizenship in ancient Greece, the republican notion focuses on how political participation is linked with one’s indent as a citizen, stemming from Aristotle’s definition of citizenship as the ability to rule and be ruled.\n\nIn relation to economic citizenship, the civil participation discussed by Aristotle can be described as economic participation so critical to the capitalist system. Defining one’s ability to be a full citizenship by his or her economic participation will establish a variegated system of citizenship in which those who can contribute most to the economy will be better represented and have a broader range of rights than those who cannot contribute as much. Variegated citizenship represents the concept that those within a different regime or status receive different levels of rights and privileges.\n\nT. H. Marshall acknowledges this concept in his discussion on the relationships between social class, capitalism and citizenship. He argues that capitalism is reliant upon social classes which directly relates to differentiated concepts of citizenship.\n\nSimilarly, Alice Kessler-Harris discusses the relationship between one’s ability to labor, and his or her right to equal wages as a component of citizenship. Her central argument addresses how denying a woman the right to labor and equal wages limits her identity as a citizen.\n\nThe arguments by both of these theorists contribute to the notion of economic citizenship because they highlight both how economic standing and participation can be linked to one’s identity and privileges as a citizen.\n\nCitizenship-by-investment enables individuals to acquire an additional citizenship by making an exceptional economic contribution to another country. This can be done by successfully completing a citizenship-by-investment program (also referred to as immigrant investor programs). Most of these programs are structured to ensure that the investment contributes to the welfare, advancement and economic development of the country in which they wish to reside or belong to. It is more often more about making an economic contribution than just an investment. These programs must be run in a manner which is legal and transparent, and in keeping with the constitution of the nation offering citizenship. This ideally should prevent corruption at the same time as giving the individual obtaining citizenship a sound legal right to their new citizenship.\n\nSeveral countries are currently able to offer investors citizenship or residence in return for an economic investment. This is usually in the form of requiring a substantial investment, coupled with compliance, residence and language requirements, among others. These countries are very selective in the type of individual they will allow to gain citizenship, however these individuals are more often than not motivated by more than just capital gains, and are looking to invest in a country more substantially from a family, social or cultural perspective. These individuals who bring their family with them as dependents commonly contribute to the economy in a variety of ways, including paying for private schooling, purchasing real estate, extending their business and creating employment. Previously, the majority of countries with citizenship-by-investment programs were located in the Caribbean, for example Antigua and Barbuda, Saint Kitts and Nevis and Dominica. More recently in the European Union, Malta and Cyprus have both developed successful programs. It is estimated that each year, hundreds of wealthy people spend a collective USD 2 billion to add a second or third passport to their collection.\n\nAlternatively, countries may offer certain options to secure a permanent residence. Examples of countries offering such residence programs are the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Portugal, Bulgaria, the United States, Canada and Australia.\n\n\n\nCitizenship Guide (https://www.citizenshippartners.com]\n"}
{"id": "72239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72239", "title": "Energy-efficient landscaping", "text": "Energy-efficient landscaping\n\nEnergy-efficient landscaping is a type of landscaping designed for the purpose of conserving energy. There is a distinction between the embedded energy of materials and constructing the landscape, and the energy consumed by the maintenance and operations of a landscape.\n\nDesign techniques include:\n\nEnergy-efficient landscaping techniques include using local materials, on-site composting and chipping to reduce greenwaste hauling, hand tools instead of gasoline-powered, and also may involve using drought-resistant plantings in arid areas, buying stock from local growers to avoid energy in transportation, and similar techniques.\n\n"}
{"id": "189616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189616", "title": "Eudaimonia", "text": "Eudaimonia\n\nEudaimonia (Greek: ), sometimes anglicized as eudaemonia or eudemonia , is a Greek word commonly translated as happiness or welfare; however, \"human flourishing or prosperity\" has been proposed as a more accurate translation. Etymologically, it consists of the words \"eu\" (\"good\") and \"daimōn\" (\"spirit\"). It is a central concept in Aristotelian ethics and political philosophy, along with the terms \"aretē\", most often translated as \"virtue\" or \"excellence\", and \"phronesis\", often translated as \"practical or ethical wisdom\". In Aristotle's works, eudaimonia (based on older Greek tradition) was used as the term for the highest human good, and so it is the aim of practical philosophy, including ethics and political philosophy, to consider (and also experience) what it really is, and how it can be achieved.\n\nDiscussion of the links between virtue of character (\"ēthikē aretē\") and happiness \"(eudaimonia)\" is one of the central concerns of ancient ethics, and a subject of much disagreement. As a result there are many varieties of eudaimonism. Two of the most influential forms are those of Aristotle and the Stoics. Aristotle takes virtue and its exercise to be the most important constituent in eudaimonia but acknowledges also the importance of external goods such as health, wealth, and beauty. By contrast, the Stoics make virtue necessary and sufficient for eudaimonia and thus deny the necessity of external goods.\n\nThe \"Definitions\", a dictionary of Greek philosophical terms attributed to Plato himself but believed by modern scholars to have been written by his immediate followers in the Academy, provides the following definition of the word eudaimonia: \"The good composed of all goods; an ability which suffices for living well; perfection in respect of virtue; resources sufficient for a living creature.\"\n\nIn his \"Nicomachean Ethics\" (§21; 1095a15–22), Aristotle says that everyone agrees that eudaimonia is the highest good for human beings, but that there is substantial disagreement on what sort of life counts as doing and living well; i.e. eudaimon:\n\nVerbally there is a very general agreement; for both the general run of men and people of superior refinement say that it is [eudaimonia], and identify living well and faring well with being happy; but with regard to what [eudaimonia] is they differ, and the many do not give the same account as the wise. For the former think it is some plain and obvious thing like pleasure, wealth or honour… [1095a17]\n\nSo, as Aristotle points out, saying that eudaimon life is a life which is objectively desirable, and means living well, is not saying very much. Everyone wants to be eudaimon; and everyone agrees that being eudaimon is related to faring well and to an individual's well being. The really difficult question is to specify just what sort of activities enable one to live well. Aristotle presents various popular conceptions of the best life for human beings. The candidates that he mentions are a (1) life of pleasure, (2) a life of political activity and (3) a philosophical life.\n\nOne important move in Greek philosophy to answer the question of how to achieve eudaimonia is to bring in another important concept in ancient philosophy, \"arete\" (\"virtue\"). Aristotle says that the eudaimon life is one of \"virtuous activity in accordance with reason\" [1097b22–1098a20]. And even Epicurus who argues that the eudaimon life is the life of pleasure maintains that the life of pleasure coincides with the life of virtue. So the ancient ethical theorists tend to agree that virtue is closely bound up with happiness (areté is bound up with eudaimonia). However, they disagree on the way in which this is so. We shall consider the main theories in a moment, but first a warning about the proper translation of areté.\n\nAs already noted, the Greek word areté is usually translated into English as \"virtue\". One problem with this is that we are inclined to understand virtue in a moral sense, which is not always what the ancients had in mind. For a Greek, areté pertains to all sorts of qualities we would not regard as relevant to ethics, for example, physical beauty. So it is important to bear in mind that the sense of ‘virtue' operative in ancient ethics is not exclusively moral and includes more than states such as wisdom, courage and compassion. The sense of virtue which areté connotes would include saying something like \"speed is a virtue in a horse\", or \"height is a virtue in a basketball player\". Doing anything well requires virtue, and each characteristic activity (such as carpentry, flute playing, etc.) has its own set of virtues. The alternative translation \"excellence\" (or \"a desirable quality\") might be helpful in conveying this general meaning of the term. The moral virtues are simply a subset of the general sense in which a human being is capable of functioning well or excellently.\n\nPositive Psychology defines Eudaimonia as a self-discovery, perceived development of one's best potentials, a sense of purpose and meaning in life, intense involvement in activities, investment of significant effort, and enjoyment of activities as personally expressive, deep relationships.\n\nIn terms of its etymology, eudaimonia is an abstract noun derived from \"eu\" meaning \"well\" and \"daimon\" (daemon), which refers to a minor deity or a guardian spirit.\n\nEudaimonia implies a positive and divine state of being that humanity is able to strive toward and possibly reach. A literal view of eudaimonia means achieving a state of being similar to benevolent deity, or being protected and looked after by a benevolent deity. As this would be considered the most positive state to be in, the word is often translated as 'happiness' although incorporating the divine nature of the word extends the meaning to also include the concepts of being fortunate, or blessed. Despite this etymology, however, discussions of eudaimonia in ancient Greek ethics are often conducted independently of any super-natural significance.\n\nIn his \"Nicomachean Ethics,\" (1095a15–22) Aristotle says that eudaimonia means 'doing and living well'. It is significant that synonyms for eudaimonia are living well and doing well. On the standard English translation, this would be to say that ‘happiness is doing well and living well'. The word ‘happiness' does not entirely capture the meaning of the Greek word. One important difference is that happiness often connotes being or tending to be in a certain pleasant state of mind. For example, when we say that someone is \"a very happy person\", we usually mean that they seem subjectively contented with the way things are going in their life. We mean to imply that they feel good about the way things are going for them. In contrast, eudaimonia is a more encompassing notion than feeling happy since events that do not contribute to one's experience of feeling happy may affect one's eudaimonia.\n\nEudaimonia depends on all the things that would make us happy if we knew of their existence, but quite independently of whether we do know about them. Ascribing eudaimonia to a person, then, may include ascribing such things as being virtuous, being loved and having good friends. But these are all objective judgments about someone's life: they concern a person's really being virtuous, really being loved, and really having fine friends. This implies that a person who has evil sons and daughters will not be judged to be eudaimonic even if he or she does not know that they are evil and feels pleased and contented with the way they have turned out (happy). Conversely, being loved by your children would not count towards your happiness if you did not know that they loved you (and perhaps thought that they did not), but it would count towards your eudaimonia. So eudaimonia corresponds to the idea of having an objectively good or desirable life, to some extent independently of whether one knows that certain things exist or not. It includes conscious experiences of well being, success, and failure, but also a whole lot more. (See Aristotle's discussion: \"Nicomachean Ethics,\" book 1.10–1.11.)\n\nBecause of this discrepancy between the meaning of eudaimonia and happiness, some alternative translations have been proposed. W.D. Ross suggests \"well-being\" and John Cooper proposes \"flourishing\". These translations may avoid some of the misleading associations carried by \"happiness\" although each tends to raise some problems of its own. In some modern texts therefore, the other alternative is to leave the term in an English form of the original Greek, as \"eudaimonia\".\n\nWhat we know of Socrates' philosophy is almost entirely derived from Plato's writings. Scholars typically divide Plato's works into three periods: the early, middle, and late periods. They tend to agree also that Plato's earliest works quite faithfully represent the teachings of Socrates and that Plato's own views, which go beyond those of Socrates, appear for the first time in the middle works such as the \"Phaedo\" and the \"Republic.\" This division will be employed here in dividing up the positions of Socrates and Plato on eudaimonia.\n\nAs with all other ancient ethical thinkers, Socrates thought that all human beings wanted eudaimonia more than anything else. (see Plato, \"Apology\" 30b, \"Euthydemus\" 280d–282d, \"Meno\" 87d–89a). However, Socrates adopted a quite radical form of eudaimonism (see above): he seems to have thought that virtue is both necessary and sufficient for eudaimonia. Socrates is convinced that virtues such as self-control, courage, justice, piety, wisdom and related qualities of mind and soul are absolutely crucial if a person is to lead a good and happy (eudaimon) life. Virtues guarantee a happy life eudaimonia. For example, in the \"Meno\", with respect to wisdom, he says: \"everything the soul endeavours or endures under the guidance of wisdom ends in happiness\" [\"Meno\" 88c].\n\nIn the \"Apology,\" Socrates clearly presents his disagreement with those who think that the eudaimon life is the life of honour or pleasure, when he chastises the Athenians for caring more for riches and honour than the state of their souls.\n\nGood Sir, you are an Athenian, a citizen of the greatest city with the greatest reputation for both wisdom and power; are you not ashamed of your eagerness to possess as much wealth, reputation, and honors as possible, while you do not care for nor give thought to wisdom or truth or the best possible state of your soul [29e].\n\n... it does not seem like human nature for me to have neglected all my own affairs and to have tolerated this neglect for so many years while I was always concerned with you, approaching each one of you like a father or an elder brother to persuade you to care for \"virtue\". [31a–b; italics added]\n\nIt emerges a bit further on that this concern for one's soul, that one's soul might be in the best possible state, amounts to acquiring moral virtue. So Socrates' point that the Athenians should care for their souls means that they should care for their virtue, rather than pursuing honour or riches. Virtues are states of the soul. When a soul has been properly cared for and perfected it possesses the virtues. Moreover, according to Socrates, this state of the soul, moral virtue, is the most important good. The health of the soul is incomparably more important for eudaimonia than (e.g.) wealth and political power. Someone with a virtuous soul is better off than someone who is wealthy and honoured but whose soul is corrupted by unjust actions. This view is confirmed in the \"Crito\", where Socrates gets Crito to agree that the perfection of the soul, virtue, is the most important good:\n\nAnd is life worth living for us with that part of us corrupted that unjust action harms and just action benefits? Or do we think that part of us, whatever it is, that is concerned with justice and injustice, is inferior to the body? Not at all. It is much more valuable…? Much more… (47e–48a)\n\nHere Socrates argues that life is not worth living if the soul is ruined by wrongdoing. In summary, Socrates seems to think that virtue is both necessary and sufficient for eudaimonia. A person who is not virtuous cannot be happy, and a person with virtue cannot fail to be happy. We shall see later on that Stoic ethics takes its cue from this Socratic insight.\n\nPlato's great work of the middle period, the \"Republic\", is devoted to answering a challenge made by the sophist Thrasymachus, that conventional morality, particularly the 'virtue' of justice, actually prevents the strong man from achieving eudaimonia. Thrasymachus's views are restatements of a position which Plato discusses earlier on in his writings, in the \"Gorgias\", through the mouthpiece of Callicles. The basic argument presented by Thrasymachus and Callicles is that justice (being just) hinders or prevents the achievement of eudaimonia because conventional morality requires that we control ourselves and hence live with un-satiated desires. This idea is vividly illustrated in book 2 of the \"Republic\" when Glaucon, taking up Thrasymachus' challenge, recounts a myth of the magical ring of Gyges. According to the myth, Gyges becomes king of Lydia when he stumbles upon a magical ring, which, when he turns it a particular way, makes him invisible, so that he can satisfy any desire he wishes without fear of punishment. When he discovers the power of the ring he kills the king, marries his wife and takes over the throne. The thrust of Glaucon's challenge is that no one would be just if he could escape the retribution he would normally encounter for fulfilling his desires at whim. But if eudaimonia is to be achieved through the satisfaction of desire, whereas being just or acting justly requires suppression of desire, then it is not in the interests of the strong man to act according to the dictates of conventional morality. (This general line of argument reoccurs much later in the philosophy of Nietzsche.) Throughout the rest of the \"Republic\", Plato aims to refute this claim by showing that the virtue of justice is necessary for eudaimonia.\nThe argument of the \"Republic\" is lengthy and complex. In brief, Plato argues that virtues are states of the soul, and that the just person is someone whose soul is ordered and harmonious, with all its parts functioning properly to the person's benefit. In contrast, Plato argues that the unjust man's soul, without the virtues, is chaotic and at war with itself, so that even if he were able to satisfy most of his desires, his lack of inner harmony and unity thwart any chance he has of achieving eudaimonia. Plato's ethical theory is eudaimonistic because it maintains that eudaimonia depends on virtue. On Plato's version of the relationship, virtue is depicted as the most crucial and the dominant constituent of eudaimonia.\n\nAristotle's account is articulated in the \"Nicomachean Ethics\" and the \"Eudemian Ethics\". In outline, for Aristotle, eudaimonia involves activity, exhibiting virtue (\"aretē\" sometimes translated as excellence) in accordance with reason. This conception of eudaimonia derives from Aristotle's essentialist understanding of human nature, the view that reason (\"logos\" sometimes translated as rationality) is unique to human beings and that the ideal function or work (\"ergon\") of a human being is the fullest or most perfect exercise of reason. Basically, well being (eudaimonia) is gained by proper development of one's highest and most human capabilities and human beings are \"the rational animal\". It follows that eudaimonia for a human being is the attainment of excellence (\"areté\") in reason.\n\nAccording to Aristotle, eudaimonia actually requires activity, action, so that it is not sufficient for a person to possess a squandered ability or disposition. Eudaimonia requires not only good character but rational activity. Aristotle clearly maintains that to live in accordance with reason means achieving excellence thereby. Moreover, he claims this excellence cannot be isolated and so competencies are also required appropriate to related functions. For example, if being a truly outstanding scientist requires impressive math skills, one might say \"doing mathematics well is necessary to be a first rate scientist\". From this it follows that eudaimonia, living well, consists in activities exercising the rational part of the psyche in accordance with the virtues or excellency of reason [1097b22–1098a20]. Which is to say, to be fully engaged in the intellectually stimulating and fulfilling work at which one achieves well-earned success. The rest of the \"Nicomachean Ethics\" is devoted to filling out the claim that the best life for a human being is the life of excellence in accordance with reason. Since reason for Aristotle is not only theoretical but practical as well, he spends quite a bit of time discussing excellence of character, which enables a person to exercise his practical reason (i.e., reason relating to action) successfully.\n\nAristotle's ethical theory is eudaimonist because it maintains that eudaimonia depends on virtue. However, it is Aristotle's explicit view that virtue is necessary but not sufficient for eudaimonia. While emphasizing the importance of the rational aspect of the psyche, he does not ignore the importance of other ‘goods' such as friends, wealth, and power in a life that is eudaimonic. He doubts the likelihood of being eudaimonic if one lacks certain external goods such as ‘good birth, good children, and beauty'. So, a person who is hideously ugly or has \"lost children or good friends through death\" (1099b5–6), or who is isolated, is unlikely to be eudaimon. In this way, \"dumb luck\" (chance) can preempt one's attainment of eudaimonia.\n\nEpicurus' ethical theory is hedonistic. (His view proved very influential on the founders and best proponents of utilitarianism, Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill.) Hedonism is the view that pleasure is the only intrinsic good and that pain is the only intrinsic bad. An object, experience or state of affairs is intrinsically valuable if it is good simply because of what it is. Intrinsic value is to be contrasted with instrumental value. An object, experience or state of affairs is instrumentally valuable if it serves as a means to what is intrinsically valuable. To see this, consider the following example. Suppose a person spends their days and nights in an office, working at not entirely pleasant activities for the purpose of receiving money. Someone asks them \"why do you want the money?\", and they answer: \"So, I can buy an apartment overlooking the ocean, and a red sports car.\" This answer expresses the point that money is instrumentally valuable because its value lies in what one obtains by means of it – in this case, the money is a means to getting an apartment and a sports car and the value of making this money dependent on the price of these commodities.\n\nEpicurus identifies the good life with the life of pleasure. He understands eudaimonia as a more or less continuous experience of pleasure and, also, freedom from pain and distress. But it is important to notice that Epicurus does not advocate that one pursue any and every pleasure. Rather, he recommends a policy whereby pleasures are maximized \"in the long run\". In other words, Epicurus claims that some pleasures are not worth having because they lead to greater pains, and some pains are worthwhile when they lead to greater pleasures. The best strategy for attaining a maximal amount of pleasure overall is not to seek instant gratification but to work out a sensible long term policy.\n\nAncient Greek ethics is eudaimonist because it links virtue and eudaimonia, where eudaimonia refers to an individual's well being. Epicurus' doctrine can be considered eudaimonist since Epicurus argues that a life of pleasure will coincide with a life of virtue. He believes that we do and ought to seek virtue because virtue brings pleasure. Epicurus' basic doctrine is that a life of virtue is the life which generates the most amount of pleasure, and it is for this reason that we ought to be virtuous. This thesis—the eudaimon life is the pleasurable life—is not a tautology as \"eudaimonia is the good life\" would be: rather, it is the substantive and controversial claim that a life of pleasure and absence of pain is what eudaimonia consists in.\n\nOne important difference between Epicurus' eudaimonism and that of Plato and Aristotle is that for the latter virtue is a constituent of eudaimonia, whereas Epicurus makes virtue a means to happiness. To this difference, consider Aristotle's theory. Aristotle maintains that eudaimonia is what everyone wants (and Epicurus would agree). He also thinks that eudaimonia is best achieved by a life of virtuous activity in accordance with reason. The virtuous person takes pleasure in doing the right thing as a result of a proper training of moral and intellectual character (See e.g., \"Nicomachean Ethics\" 1099a5). However, Aristotle does not think that virtuous activity is pursued for the sake of pleasure. Pleasure is a byproduct of virtuous action: it does not enter at all into the reasons why virtuous action is virtuous. Aristotle does not think that we literally aim for eudaimonia. Rather, eudaimonia is what we achieve (assuming that we aren't particularly unfortunate in the possession of external goods) when we live according to the requirements of reason. Virtue is the largest constituent in a eudaimon life.\nBy contrast, Epicurus holds that virtue is the means to achieve happiness. His theory is eudaimonist in that he holds that virtue is indispensable to happiness; but virtue is not a constituent of a eudaimon life, and being virtuous is not (external goods aside) identical with being eudaimon. Rather, according to Epicurus, virtue is only instrumentally related to happiness. So whereas Aristotle would not say that one ought to aim for virtue in order to attain pleasure, Epicurus would endorse this claim.\n\nStoic philosophy begins with Zeno of Citium c.300 BC, and was developed by Cleanthes (331–232 BC) and Chrysippus (c.280–c.206 BC) into a formidable systematic unity. Zeno believed happiness was a \"good flow of life\"; Cleanthes suggested it was \"living in agreement with nature\", and Chrysippus believed it was \"living in accordance with experience of what happens by nature\". Stoic ethics is a particularly strong version of eudaimonism. According to the Stoics, virtue is necessary and sufficient for eudaimonia. (This thesis is generally regarded as stemming from the Socrates of Plato's earlier dialogues.) We saw earlier that the conventional Greek concept of arete is not quite the same as that denoted by \"virtue\", which has Christian connotations of charity, patience, and uprightness, since arete includes many non-moral virtues such as physical strength and beauty. However, the Stoic concept of arete is much nearer to the Christian conception of virtue, which refers to the moral virtues. However, unlike Christian understandings of virtue, righteousness or piety, the Stoic conception does not place as great an emphasis on mercy, forgiveness, self-abasement (i.e. the ritual process of declaring complete powerlessness and humility before God), charity and self-sacrificial love, though these behaviors/mentalities are not necessarily spurned by the Stoics (they are spurned by some other philosophers of Antiquity). Rather Stoicism emphasizes states such as justice, honesty, moderation, simplicity, self-discipline, resolve, fortitude, and courage (states which Christianity also encourages).\n\nThe Stoics make a radical claim that the eudaimon life is the morally virtuous life. Moral virtue is good, and moral vice is bad, and everything else, such as health, honour and riches, are merely \"neutral\". The Stoics therefore are committed to saying that external goods such as wealth and physical beauty are not really good at all. Moral virtue is both necessary and sufficient for eudaimonia. In this, they are akin to Cynic philosophers such as Antisthenes and Diogenes in denying the importance to eudaimonia of external goods and circumstances, such as were recognized by Aristotle, who thought that severe misfortune (such as the death of one's family and friends) could rob even the most virtuous person of eudaimonia. This Stoic doctrine re-emerges later in the history of ethical philosophy in the writings of Immanuel Kant, who argues that the possession of a \"good will\" is the only unconditional good. One difference is that whereas the Stoics regard external goods as neutral, as neither good nor bad, Kant's position seems to be that external goods are good, but only so far as they are a condition to achieving happiness.\n\nInterest in the concept of eudaimonia and ancient ethical theory more generally enjoyed a revival in the twentieth century. G. E. M. Anscombe in her article \"Modern Moral Philosophy\" (1958) argued that duty-based conceptions of morality are conceptually incoherent for they are based on the idea of a \"law without a lawgiver\". She claims a system of morality conceived along the lines of the Ten Commandments depends on someone having made these rules. Anscombe recommends a return to the eudaimonistic ethical theories of the ancients, particularly Aristotle, which ground morality in the interests and well being of human moral agents, and can do so without appealing to any such lawgiver.\n\nJulia Driver in the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" explains:\n\nAnscombe's article \"Modern Moral Philosophy\" stimulated the development of virtue ethics as an alternative to Utilitarianism, Kantian Ethics, and Social Contract theories. Her primary charge in the article is that, as secular approaches to moral theory, they are without foundation. They use concepts such as \"morally ought\", \"morally obligated\", \"morally right\", and so forth that are legalistic and require a legislator as the source of moral authority. In the past God occupied that role, but systems that dispense with God as part of the theory are lacking the proper foundation for meaningful employment of those concepts.\n\nModels of eudaimonia in psychology emerged from early work on self-actualization and the means of its accomplishment by researchers such as Erik Erikson, Gordon Allport, and Abraham Maslow. \n\nCentral theories are Diener's tripartite model of subjective well-being, Ryff's Six-factor Model of Psychological Well-being, Keyes work on flourishing, and Seligman's contributions to positive psychology and his theories on \"authentic happiness\" and P.E.R.M.A. Related concepts are happiness, flourishing, quality of life, contentment, and meaningful life.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8033728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8033728", "title": "FM transmitter (personal device)", "text": "FM transmitter (personal device)\n\nA personal FM transmitter is a low-power FM radio transmitter that broadcasts a signal from a portable audio device (such as an MP3 player) to a standard FM radio. Most of these transmitters plug into the device's headphone jack and then broadcast the signal over an FM broadcast band frequency, so that it can be picked up by any nearby radio. This allows portable audio devices to make use of the louder or better sound quality of a home audio system or car stereo without requiring a wired connection. They are often used in cars but may also be in fixed locations such as broadcasting from a computer sound card throughout a building.\n\nBeing low-powered, most transmitters typically have a short range of 100–300 feet (30–100 metres), depending on the quality of the receiver, obstructions and elevation. Typically they broadcast on any FM frequency from 87.5 to 108.0 MHz in most of the world, 76.0 - 95.0 MHz for Japan, 65.0 - 74.2 MHz for Russia (or 88.1 to 107.9 MHz in the US and Canada).\n\nPersonal FM transmitters are commonly used as a workaround for playing portable audio devices on car radios that don't have an Auxiliary \"AUX\" input jack or Bluetooth audio connectivity. They are also used to broadcast a stationary audio source, like a computer or a television, around a home. They can also be used for low-power broadcasting and pirate radio but only to a very limited audience in near proximity. They can also be used as a \"talking sign\" in real estate sales or similar.\n\nThe legality and maximum permitted power levels or field strengths of these devices varies by country. In 2006 these devices became legal in most countries in the European Union. \n\nIn the UK Stautory Instrument IR2030/26/2 2011/0401/UK (from December 2011) permits unlicenced use of devices that can be shown to radiate less than 50 nanowatts (-43dBm), on a 0.2MHz raster in the range 87.5–108MHz.\n\nIndustry Canada permits transmitters that have an output lower than 100 µV/m at 30 meters (approximately 1 microwatt output). \n\nIn the United States, Part 15 of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission rules specifies that no license is needed if FM transmitters have a Maximum Effective Radiated Power (ERP) of 0.01 microwatts or 250 µV/m measured at 3 meters. \n\nIn Japan, no license is needed for devices with a signal strength of less than 500 µV/m at 3 meters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27862538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27862538", "title": "Freyd cover", "text": "Freyd cover\n\nIn the mathematical discipline of category theory, the Freyd cover or scone category is a construction that yields a set-like construction out of a given category. The only requirement is that the original category has a terminal object. The scone category inherits almost any categorical construct the original category has. Scones can be used to generally describe proofs that use logical relations.\n\nFormally, the scone of a category \"C\" with a terminal object 1 is the comma category formula_1.\n"}
{"id": "53246456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53246456", "title": "Go Grrrls", "text": "Go Grrrls\n\nGo Grrrls is a gender-specific intervention curriculum for early adolescent girls that tries to promote a positive transition to adulthood. It is a social skills building and psychoeducational program administered in a group setting—targeted towards girls in their early teens. When compared to a control group using a self-reported evaluation, the program has shown a positive effect on girls' self-efficacy, body image and assertiveness. A pilot program was launched in 1995 and a final version was published in 1999. It is administered by a team of two or more co-facilitators. The program was designed by Craig LeCroy and Janice Daley. LeCroy also published an experimental evaluation of the program.\n\nThe program is partitioned into several sessions of 30-60 minutes length. They are administered over a dozen weeks and focused on six topics:\n\nThe program has been criticized for lacking \"the capacity to measure prevention.\" According to William Epstein, the program is also unlikely to make an impression on girls because of the didactic nature of its curriculum. He referred to the evaluation done by the LeCroy in 2004 as a \"poorly designed study.\" confirming the need for a more authoritative evaluation.\n"}
{"id": "12281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12281", "title": "Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz", "text": "Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz\n\nGottfried Wilhelm (von) Leibniz (sometimes spelled Leibnitz) (; or ; ; – 14 November 1716) was a prominent German polymath and philosopher in the history of mathematics and the history of philosophy. His most notable accomplishment was conceiving the ideas of differential and integral calculus, independently of Isaac Newton's contemporaneous developments. Mathematical works have always favored Leibniz's notation as the conventional expression of calculus, while Newton's notation became unused. It was only in the 20th century that Leibniz's law of continuity and transcendental law of homogeneity found mathematical implementation (by means of non-standard analysis). He became one of the most prolific inventors in the field of mechanical calculators. While working on adding automatic multiplication and division to Pascal's calculator, he was the first to describe a pinwheel calculator in 1685 and invented the Leibniz wheel, used in the arithmometer, the first mass-produced mechanical calculator. He also refined the binary number system, which is the foundation of all digital computers.\n\nIn philosophy, Leibniz is most noted for his optimism, i.e. his conclusion that our universe is, in a restricted sense, the best possible one that God could have created, an idea that was often lampooned by others such as Voltaire. Leibniz, along with René Descartes and Baruch Spinoza, was one of the three great 17th-century advocates of rationalism. The work of Leibniz anticipated modern logic and analytic philosophy, but his philosophy also looks back to the scholastic tradition, in which conclusions are produced by applying reason to first principles or prior definitions rather than to empirical evidence.\n\nLeibniz made major contributions to physics and technology, and anticipated notions that surfaced much later in philosophy, probability theory, biology, medicine, geology, psychology, linguistics, and computer science. He wrote works on philosophy, politics, law, ethics, theology, history, and philology. Leibniz also contributed to the field of library science. While serving as overseer of the Wolfenbüttel library in Germany, he devised a cataloging system that would serve as a guide for many of Europe's largest libraries. Leibniz's contributions to this vast array of subjects were scattered in various learned journals, in tens of thousands of letters, and in unpublished manuscripts. He wrote in several languages, but primarily in Latin, French, and German. There is no complete gathering of the writings of Leibniz translated into English.\n\nGottfried Leibniz was born on 1 July 1646, toward the end of the Thirty Years' War, in Leipzig, Saxony, to Friedrich Leibniz and Catharina Schmuck. Friedrich noted in his family journal:\n\nIn English:\nLeibniz was baptized on 3 July of that year at St. Nicholas Church, Leipzig; his godfather was the Lutheran theologian . His father died when he was six years old, and from that point on he was raised by his mother.\n\nLeibniz's father had been a Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Leipzig, and the boy later inherited his father's personal library. He was given free access to it from the age of seven. While Leibniz's schoolwork was largely confined to the study of a small canon of authorities, his father's library enabled him to study a wide variety of advanced philosophical and theological works—ones that he would not have otherwise been able to read until his college years. Access to his father's library, largely written in Latin, also led to his proficiency in the Latin language, which he achieved by the age of 12. He also composed 300 hexameters of Latin verse, in a single morning, for a special event at school at the age of 13.\n\nIn April 1661 he enrolled in his father's former university at age 14, and completed his bachelor's degree in Philosophy in December 1662. He defended his \"Disputatio Metaphysica de Principio Individui\" (\"Metaphysical Disputation on the Principle of Individuation\"), which addressed the principle of individuation, on 9 June 1663. Leibniz earned his master's degree in Philosophy on 7 February 1664. He published and defended a dissertation \"Specimen Quaestionum Philosophicarum ex Jure collectarum\" (\"An Essay of Collected Philosophical Problems of Right\"), arguing for both a theoretical and a pedagogical relationship between philosophy and law, in December 1664. After one year of legal studies, he was awarded his bachelor's degree in Law on 28 September 1665. His dissertation was titled \"De conditionibus\" (\"On Conditions\").\n\nIn early 1666, at age 19, Leibniz wrote his first book, \"De Arte Combinatoria\" (\"On the Combinatorial Art\"), the first part of which was also his habilitation thesis in Philosophy, which he defended in March 1666. His next goal was to earn his license and Doctorate in Law, which normally required three years of study. In 1666, the University of Leipzig turned down Leibniz's doctoral application and refused to grant him a Doctorate in Law, most likely due to his relative youth. Leibniz subsequently left Leipzig.\n\nLeibniz then enrolled in the University of Altdorf and quickly submitted a thesis, which he had probably been working on earlier in Leipzig. The title of his thesis was \"Disputatio Inauguralis de Casibus Perplexis in Jure\" (\"Inaugural Disputation on Ambiguous Legal Cases\"). Leibniz earned his license to practice law and his Doctorate in Law in November 1666. He next declined the offer of an academic appointment at Altdorf, saying that \"my thoughts were turned in an entirely different direction\".\n\nAs an adult, Leibniz often introduced himself as \"Gottfried von Leibniz\". Many posthumously published editions of his writings presented his name on the title page as \"Freiherr G. W. von Leibniz.\" However, no document has ever been found from any contemporary government that stated his appointment to any form of nobility.\n\nLeibniz's first position was as a salaried secretary to an alchemical society in Nuremberg. He knew fairly little about the subject at that time but presented himself as deeply learned. He soon met Johann Christian von Boyneburg (1622–1672), the dismissed chief minister of the Elector of Mainz, Johann Philipp von Schönborn. Von Boyneburg hired Leibniz as an assistant, and shortly thereafter reconciled with the Elector and introduced Leibniz to him. Leibniz then dedicated an essay on law to the Elector in the hope of obtaining employment. The stratagem worked; the Elector asked Leibniz to assist with the redrafting of the legal code for the Electorate. In 1669, Leibniz was appointed assessor in the Court of Appeal. Although von Boyneburg died late in 1672, Leibniz remained under the employment of his widow until she dismissed him in 1674.\n\nVon Boyneburg did much to promote Leibniz's reputation, and the latter's memoranda and letters began to attract favorable notice. After Leibniz's service to the Elector there soon followed a diplomatic role. He published an essay, under the pseudonym of a fictitious Polish nobleman, arguing (unsuccessfully) for the German candidate for the Polish crown. The main force in European geopolitics during Leibniz's adult life was the ambition of Louis XIV of France, backed by French military and economic might. Meanwhile, the Thirty Years' War had left German-speaking Europe exhausted, fragmented, and economically backward. Leibniz proposed to protect German-speaking Europe by distracting Louis as follows. France would be invited to take Egypt as a stepping stone towards an eventual conquest of the Dutch East Indies. In return, France would agree to leave Germany and the Netherlands undisturbed. This plan obtained the Elector's cautious support. In 1672, the French government invited Leibniz to Paris for discussion, but the plan was soon overtaken by the outbreak of the Franco-Dutch War and became irrelevant. Napoleon's failed invasion of Egypt in 1798 can be seen as an unwitting, late implementation of Leibniz's plan, after the Eastern hemisphere colonial supremacy in Europe had already passed from the Dutch to the British.\n\nThus Leibniz went to Paris in 1672. Soon after arriving, he met Dutch physicist and mathematician Christiaan Huygens and realised that his own knowledge of mathematics and physics was patchy. With Huygens as his mentor, he began a program of self-study that soon pushed him to making major contributions to both subjects, including discovering his version of the differential and integral calculus. He met Nicolas Malebranche and Antoine Arnauld, the leading French philosophers of the day, and studied the writings of Descartes and Pascal, unpublished as well as published. He befriended a German mathematician, Ehrenfried Walther von Tschirnhaus; they corresponded for the rest of their lives.\n\nWhen it became clear that France would not implement its part of Leibniz's Egyptian plan, the Elector sent his nephew, escorted by Leibniz, on a related mission to the English government in London, early in 1673. There Leibniz came into acquaintance of Henry Oldenburg and John Collins. He met with the Royal Society where he demonstrated a calculating machine that he had designed and had been building since 1670. The machine was able to execute all four basic operations (adding, subtracting, multiplying, and dividing), and the society quickly made him an external member.\n\nThe mission ended abruptly when news of the Elector's death (12 February 1673) reached them. Leibniz promptly returned to Paris and not, as had been planned, to Mainz. The sudden deaths of his two patrons in the same winter meant that Leibniz had to find a new basis for his career.\n\nIn this regard, a 1669 invitation from the John Frederick of Brunswick to visit Hanover proved to have been fateful. Leibniz had declined the invitation, but had begun corresponding with the duke in 1671. In 1673, the duke offered Leibniz the post of counsellor. Leibniz very reluctantly accepted the position two years later, only after it became clear that no employment in Paris, whose intellectual stimulation he relished, or with the Habsburg imperial court, was forthcoming.\n\nIn 1675 he tried to get admitted to the French Academy of Sciences as a foreign honorary member, but it was considered that there were already enough foreigners there and so no invitation came. He left Paris in October 1676.\n\nLeibniz managed to delay his arrival in Hanover until the end of 1676 after making one more short journey to London, where Newton accused him of having seen Newton's unpublished work on calculus in advance. This was alleged to be evidence supporting the accusation, made decades later, that he had stolen calculus from Newton. On the journey from London to Hanover, Leibniz stopped in The Hague where he met van Leeuwenhoek, the discoverer of microorganisms. He also spent several days in intense discussion with Spinoza, who had just completed his masterwork, the \"Ethics\".\n\nIn 1677, he was promoted, at his request, to Privy Counselor of Justice, a post he held for the rest of his life. Leibniz served three consecutive rulers of the House of Brunswick as historian, political adviser, and most consequentially, as librarian of the ducal library. He thenceforth employed his pen on all the various political, historical, and theological matters involving the House of Brunswick; the resulting documents form a valuable part of the historical record for the period.\n\nLeibniz began promoting a project to use windmills to improve the mining operations in the Harz Mountains. This project did little to improve mining operations and was shut down by Duke Ernst August in 1685.\n\nAmong the few people in north Germany to accept Leibniz were the Electress Sophia of Hanover (1630–1714), her daughter Sophia Charlotte of Hanover (1668–1705), the Queen of Prussia and his avowed disciple, and Caroline of Ansbach, the consort of her grandson, the future George II. To each of these women he was correspondent, adviser, and friend. In turn, they all approved of Leibniz more than did their spouses and the future king George I of Great Britain.\n\nThe population of Hanover was only about 10,000, and its provinciality eventually grated on Leibniz. Nevertheless, to be a major courtier to the House of Brunswick was quite an honor, especially in light of the meteoric rise in the prestige of that House during Leibniz's association with it. In 1692, the Duke of Brunswick became a hereditary Elector of the Holy Roman Empire. The British Act of Settlement 1701 designated the Electress Sophia and her descent as the royal family of England, once both King William III and his sister-in-law and successor, Queen Anne, were dead. Leibniz played a role in the initiatives and negotiations leading up to that Act, but not always an effective one. For example, something he published anonymously in England, thinking to promote the Brunswick cause, was formally censured by the British Parliament.\n\nThe Brunswicks tolerated the enormous effort Leibniz devoted to intellectual pursuits unrelated to his duties as a courtier, pursuits such as perfecting calculus, writing about other mathematics, logic, physics, and philosophy, and keeping up a vast correspondence. He began working on calculus in 1674; the earliest evidence of its use in his surviving notebooks is 1675. By 1677 he had a coherent system in hand, but did not publish it until 1684. Leibniz's most important mathematical papers were published between 1682 and 1692, usually in a journal which he and Otto Mencke founded in 1682, the \"Acta Eruditorum\". That journal played a key role in advancing his mathematical and scientific reputation, which in turn enhanced his eminence in diplomacy, history, theology, and philosophy.\n\nThe Elector Ernest Augustus commissioned Leibniz to write a history of the House of Brunswick, going back to the time of Charlemagne or earlier, hoping that the resulting book would advance his dynastic ambitions. From 1687 to 1690, Leibniz traveled extensively in Germany, Austria, and Italy, seeking and finding archival materials bearing on this project. Decades went by but no history appeared; the next Elector became quite annoyed at Leibniz's apparent dilatoriness. Leibniz never finished the project, in part because of his huge output on many other fronts, but also because he insisted on writing a meticulously researched and erudite book based on archival sources, when his patrons would have been quite happy with a short popular book, one perhaps little more than a genealogy with commentary, to be completed in three years or less. They never knew that he had in fact carried out a fair part of his assigned task: when the material Leibniz had written and collected for his history of the House of Brunswick was finally published in the 19th century, it filled three volumes.\n\nLeibniz was appointed Librarian of the Herzog August Library in Wolfenbüttel, Lower Saxony, in 1691.\n\nIn 1708, John Keill, writing in the journal of the Royal Society and with Newton's presumed blessing, accused Leibniz of having plagiarised Newton's calculus. Thus began the calculus priority dispute which darkened the remainder of Leibniz's life. A formal investigation by the Royal Society (in which Newton was an unacknowledged participant), undertaken in response to Leibniz's demand for a retraction, upheld Keill's charge. Historians of mathematics writing since 1900 or so have tended to acquit Leibniz, pointing to important differences between Leibniz's and Newton's versions of calculus.\n\nIn 1711, while traveling in northern Europe, the Russian Tsar Peter the Great stopped in Hanover and met Leibniz, who then took some interest in Russian matters for the rest of his life. In 1712, Leibniz began a two-year residence in Vienna, where he was appointed Imperial Court Councillor to the Habsburgs. On the death of Queen Anne in 1714, Elector George Louis became King George I of Great Britain, under the terms of the 1701 Act of Settlement. Even though Leibniz had done much to bring about this happy event, it was not to be his hour of glory. Despite the intercession of the Princess of Wales, Caroline of Ansbach, George I forbade Leibniz to join him in London until he completed at least one volume of the history of the Brunswick family his father had commissioned nearly 30 years earlier. Moreover, for George I to include Leibniz in his London court would have been deemed insulting to Newton, who was seen as having won the calculus priority dispute and whose standing in British official circles could not have been higher. Finally, his dear friend and defender, the Dowager Electress Sophia, died in 1714.\n\nLeibniz died in Hanover in 1716: at the time, he was so out of favor that neither George I (who happened to be near Hanover at that time) nor any fellow courtier other than his personal secretary attended the funeral. Even though Leibniz was a life member of the Royal Society and the Berlin Academy of Sciences, neither organization saw fit to honor his death. His grave went unmarked for more than 50 years. Leibniz was eulogized by Fontenelle, before the French Academy of Sciences in Paris, which had admitted him as a foreign member in 1700. The eulogy was composed at the behest of the Duchess of Orleans, a niece of the Electress Sophia.\n\nLeibniz never married. He complained on occasion about money, but the fair sum he left to his sole heir, his sister's stepson, proved that the Brunswicks had, by and large, paid him well. In his diplomatic endeavors, he at times verged on the unscrupulous, as was all too often the case with professional diplomats of his day. On several occasions, Leibniz backdated and altered personal manuscripts, actions which put him in a bad light during the calculus controversy. On the other hand, he was charming, well-mannered, and not without humor and imagination. He had many friends and admirers all over Europe. On Leibniz's religious views, though he was a protestant, Leibniz learned to appreciate aspects of Catholicism through his patrons and colleagues. He never admitted the Protestant view of Pope as an Antichrist. Leibniz was claimed as a philosophical theist. Leibniz remained committed to Trinitarian Christianity throughout his life.\n\nLeibniz's philosophical thinking appears fragmented, because his philosophical writings consist mainly of a multitude of short pieces: journal articles, manuscripts published long after his death, and many letters to many correspondents. He wrote only two book-length philosophical treatises, of which only the \"Théodicée\" of 1710 was published in his lifetime.\n\nLeibniz dated his beginning as a philosopher to his \"Discourse on Metaphysics\", which he composed in 1686 as a commentary on a running dispute between Nicolas Malebranche and Antoine Arnauld. This led to an extensive and valuable correspondence with Arnauld; it and the \"Discourse\" were not published until the 19th century. In 1695, Leibniz made his public entrée into European philosophy with a journal article titled \"New System of the Nature and Communication of Substances\". Between 1695 and 1705, he composed his \"New Essays on Human Understanding\", a lengthy commentary on John Locke's 1690 \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\", but upon learning of Locke's 1704 death, lost the desire to publish it, so that the \"New Essays\" were not published until 1765. The \"Monadologie\", composed in 1714 and published posthumously, consists of 90 aphorisms.\n\nLeibniz met Spinoza in 1676, read some of his unpublished writings, and has since been suspected of appropriating some of Spinoza's ideas. While Leibniz admired Spinoza's powerful intellect, he was also forthrightly dismayed by Spinoza's conclusions, especially when these were inconsistent with Christian orthodoxy.\n\nUnlike Descartes and Spinoza, Leibniz had a thorough university education in philosophy. He was influenced by his Leipzig professor Jakob Thomasius, who also supervised his BA thesis in philosophy. Leibniz also eagerly read Francisco Suárez, a Spanish Jesuit respected even in Lutheran universities. Leibniz was deeply interested in the new methods and conclusions of Descartes, Huygens, Newton, and Boyle, but viewed their work through a lens heavily tinted by scholastic notions. Yet it remains the case that Leibniz's methods and concerns often anticipate the logic, and analytic and linguistic philosophy of the 20th century.\n\nLeibniz variously invoked one or another of seven fundamental philosophical Principles:\n\nLeibniz would on occasion give a rational defense of a specific principle, but more often took them for granted.\n\nLeibniz's best known contribution to metaphysics is his theory of monads, as exposited in \"Monadologie\". He proposes his theory that the universe is made of an infinite number of simple substances known as monads. Monads can also be compared to the corpuscles of the Mechanical Philosophy of René Descartes and others. These simple substances or monads are the \"ultimate units of existence in nature\". Monads have no parts but still exist by the qualities that they have. These qualities are continuously changing over time, and each monad is unique. They are also not affected by time and are subject to only creation and annihilation. Monads are centers of force; substance is force, while space, matter, and motion are merely phenomenal.\n\nLeibniz's proof of God can be summarized in the \"Théodicée\". Reason is governed by the principle of contradiction and the principle of sufficient reason. Using the principle of reasoning, Leibniz concluded that the first reason of all things is God. All that we see and experience are subject to change, and the fact that this world is contingent can be explained by the possibility of the world being arranged differently in space and time. The contingent world must have some necessary reason for its existence. Leibniz uses a geometry book as an example to explain his reasoning. If this book was copied from an infinite chain of copies, there must be a some reason for the content of the book. Leibniz concluded that there must be the \"monas monadum\" or God.\n\nThe ontological essence of a monad is its irreducible simplicity. Unlike atoms, monads possess no material or spatial character. They also differ from atoms by their complete mutual independence, so that interactions among monads are only apparent. Instead, by virtue of the principle of pre-established harmony, each monad follows a preprogrammed set of \"instructions\" peculiar to itself, so that a monad \"knows\" what to do at each moment. By virtue of these intrinsic instructions, each monad is like a little mirror of the universe. Monads need not be \"small\"; e.g., each human being constitutes a monad, in which case free will is problematic.\n\nMonads are purported to have gotten rid of the problematic:\n\nThe \"Theodicy\" tries to justify the apparent imperfections of the world by claiming that it is optimal among all possible worlds. It must be the best possible and most balanced world, because it was created by an all powerful and all knowing God, who would not choose to create an imperfect world if a better world could be known to him or possible to exist. In effect, apparent flaws that can be identified in this world must exist in every possible world, because otherwise God would have chosen to create the world that excluded those flaws.\n\nLeibniz asserted that the truths of theology (religion) and philosophy cannot contradict each other, since reason and faith are both \"gifts of God\" so that their conflict would imply God contending against himself. The \"Theodicy\" is Leibniz's attempt to reconcile his personal philosophical system with his interpretation of the tenets of Christianity. This project was motivated in part by Leibniz's belief, shared by many conservative philosophers and theologians during the Enlightenment, in the rational and enlightened nature of the Christian religion as compared to its purportedly less advanced non-Western counterparts. It was also shaped by Leibniz's belief in the perfectibility of human nature (if humanity relied on correct philosophy and religion as a guide), and by his belief that metaphysical necessity must have a rational or logical foundation, even if this metaphysical causality seemed inexplicable in terms of physical necessity (the natural laws identified by science).\n\nBecause reason and faith must be entirely reconciled, any tenet of faith which could not be defended by reason must be rejected. Leibniz then approached one of the central criticisms of Christian theism: if God is all good, all wise and all powerful, how did evil come into the world? The answer (according to Leibniz) is that, while God is indeed unlimited in wisdom and power, his human creations, as creations, are limited both in their wisdom and in their will (power to act). This predisposes humans to false beliefs, wrong decisions and ineffective actions in the exercise of their free will. God does not arbitrarily inflict pain and suffering on humans; rather he permits both \"moral evil\" (sin) and \"physical evil\" (pain and suffering) as the necessary consequences of \"metaphysical evil\" (imperfection), as a means by which humans can identify and correct their erroneous decisions, and as a contrast to true good.\n\nFurther, although human actions flow from prior causes that ultimately arise in God, and therefore are known as a metaphysical certainty to God, an individual's free will is exercised within natural laws, where choices are merely contingently necessary, to be decided in the event by a \"wonderful spontaneity\" that provides individuals an escape from rigorous predestination.\n\nFor Leibniz, \"God is an absolutely perfect being.\" He describes this perfection later in section VI as the simplest form of something with the most substantial outcome (VI). Along these lines, he declares that every type of perfection \"pertains to him (God) in the highest degree\" (I). Even though his types of perfections are not specifically drawn out, Leibniz highlights the one thing that, to him, does certify imperfections and proves that God is perfect: \"that one acts imperfectly if he acts with less perfection than he is capable of\", and since God is a perfect being, he cannot act imperfectly (III). Because God cannot act imperfectly, the decisions he makes pertaining to the world must be perfect. Leibniz also comforts readers, stating that because he has done everything to the most perfect degree; those who love him cannot be injured. However, to love God is a subject of difficulty as Leibniz believes that we are \"not disposed to wish for that which God desires\" because we have the ability to alter our disposition (IV). In accordance with this, many act as rebels, but Leibniz says that the only way we can truly love God is by being content \"with all that comes to us according to his will\" (IV).\n\nBecause God is \"an absolutely perfect being\" (I), Leibniz argues that God would be acting imperfectly if he acted with any less perfection than what he is able of (III). His syllogism then ends with the statement that God has made the world perfectly in all ways. This also affects how we should view God and his will. Leibniz states that, in lieu of God’s will, we have to understand that God \"is the best of all masters\" and he will know when his good succeeds, so we, therefore, must act in conformity to his good will—or as much of it as we understand (IV). In our view of God, Leibniz declares that we cannot admire the work solely because of the maker, lest we mar the glory and love God in doing so. Instead, we must admire the maker for the work he has done (II). Effectively, Leibniz states that if we say the earth is good because of the will of God, and not good according to some standards of goodness, then how can we praise God for what he has done if contrary actions are also praiseworthy by this definition (II). Leibniz then asserts that different principles and geometry cannot simply be from the will of God, but must follow from his understanding.\n\nLeibniz wrote: \"Why is there something rather than nothing? The sufficient reason ... is found in a substance which ... is a necessary being bearing the reason for its existence within itself.\" Martin Heidegger called this question \"the fundamental question of metaphysics\".\n\nLeibniz believed that much of human reasoning could be reduced to calculations of a sort, and that such calculations could resolve many differences of opinion:\n\nThe only way to rectify our reasonings is to make them as tangible as those of the Mathematicians, so that we can find our error at a glance, and when there are disputes among persons, we can simply say: Let us calculate [\"calculemus\"], without further ado, to see who is right.\n\nLeibniz's calculus ratiocinator, which resembles symbolic logic, can be viewed as a way of making such calculations feasible. Leibniz wrote memoranda that can now be read as groping attempts to get symbolic logic—and thus his \"calculus\"—off the ground. These writings remained unpublished until the appearance of a selection edited by C.I. Gerhardt (1859). L. Couturat published a selection in 1901; by this time the main developments of modern logic had been created by Charles Sanders Peirce and by Gottlob Frege.\n\nLeibniz thought symbols were important for human understanding. He attached so much importance to the development of good notations that he attributed all his discoveries in mathematics to this. His notation for calculus is an example of his skill in this regard. Peirce, a 19th-century pioneer of semiotics, shared Leibniz's passion for symbols and notation, and his belief that these are essential to a well-running logic and mathematics.\n\nBut Leibniz took his speculations much further. Defining a character as any written sign, he then defined a \"real\" character as one that represents an idea directly and not simply as the word embodying the idea. Some real characters, such as the notation of logic, serve only to facilitate reasoning. Many characters well known in his day, including Egyptian hieroglyphics, Chinese characters, and the symbols of astronomy and chemistry, he deemed not real. Instead, he proposed the creation of a \"characteristica universalis\" or \"universal characteristic\", built on an alphabet of human thought in which each fundamental concept would be represented by a unique \"real\" character:\n\nIt is obvious that if we could find characters or signs suited for expressing all our thoughts as clearly and as exactly as arithmetic expresses numbers or geometry expresses lines, we could do in all matters \"insofar as they are subject to reasoning\" all that we can do in arithmetic and geometry. For all investigations which depend on reasoning would be carried out by transposing these characters and by a species of calculus.\n\nComplex thoughts would be represented by combining characters for simpler thoughts. Leibniz saw that the uniqueness of prime factorization suggests a central role for prime numbers in the universal characteristic, a striking anticipation of Gödel numbering. Granted, there is no intuitive or mnemonic way to number any set of elementary concepts using the prime numbers. \n\nBecause Leibniz was a mathematical novice when he first wrote about the \"characteristic\", at first he did not conceive it as an algebra but rather as a universal language or script. Only in 1676 did he conceive of a kind of \"algebra of thought\", modeled on and including conventional algebra and its notation. The resulting \"characteristic\" included a logical calculus, some combinatorics, algebra, his \"analysis situs\" (geometry of situation), a universal concept language, and more. What Leibniz actually intended by his \"characteristica universalis\" and calculus ratiocinator, and the extent to which modern formal logic does justice to calculus, may never be established. Leibniz's idea of reasoning through a universal language of symbols and calculations remarkably foreshadows great 20th-century developments in formal systems, such as Turing completeness, where computation was used to define equivalent universal languages (see Turing degree).\n\nLeibniz has been noted as one of the most important logicians between the times of Aristotle and Gottlob Frege. Leibniz enunciated the principal properties of what we now call conjunction, disjunction, negation, identity, set inclusion, and the empty set. The principles of Leibniz's logic and, arguably, of his whole philosophy, reduce to two:\n\n\nThe formal logic that emerged early in the 20th century also requires, at minimum, unary negation and quantified variables ranging over some universe of discourse.\n\nLeibniz published nothing on formal logic in his lifetime; most of what he wrote on the subject consists of working drafts. In his book \"History of Western Philosophy\", Bertrand Russell went so far as to claim that Leibniz had developed logic in his unpublished writings to a level which was reached only 200 years later.\n\nRussell's principal work on Leibniz found that many of Leibniz's most startling philosophical ideas and claims (e.g., that each of the fundamental monads mirrors the whole universe) follow logically from Leibniz's conscious choice to reject \"relations\" between things as unreal. He regarded such relations as (real) \"qualities\" of things (Leibniz admitted unary predicates only): For him \"Mary is the mother of John\" describes separate qualities of Mary and of John. This view contrasts with the relational logic of De Morgan, Peirce, Schröder and Russell himself, now standard in predicate logic. Notably, Leibniz also declared space and time to be inherently relational.\n\nAlthough the mathematical notion of function was implicit in trigonometric and logarithmic tables, which existed in his day, Leibniz was the first, in 1692 and 1694, to employ it explicitly, to denote any of several geometric concepts derived from a curve, such as abscissa, ordinate, tangent, chord, and the perpendicular. In the 18th century, \"function\" lost these geometrical associations. Leibniz also believed that the sum of an infinite number of zeros would equal to one half using the analogy of the creation of the world from nothing. Leibniz was also one of the pioneers in actuarial science, calculating the purchase price of life annuities and the liquidation of a state's debt.\n\nLeibniz's discoveries of Boolean algebra and of symbolic logic, also relevant to mathematics, are discussed in the preceding section. The best overview of Leibniz's writings on calculus may be found in Bos (1974).\n\nLeibniz arranged the coefficients of a system of linear equations into an array, now called a matrix, in order to find a solution to the system if it existed. This method was later called Gaussian elimination. Leibniz laid down the foundations and theory of determinants, although Seki Kowa discovered determinants well before Leibniz. His works show calculating the determinants using cofactors. Calculating the determinant using cofactors is named the Leibniz formula. Finding the determinant of a matrix using this method proves impractical with large \"n\", requiring to calculate \"n!\" products and the number of n-permutations. He also solved systems of linear equations using determinants, which is now called Cramer's rule. This method for solving systems of linear equations based on determinants was found in 1684 by Leibniz (Cramer published his findings in 1750). Although Gaussian elimination requires formula_1 arithmetic operations, linear algebra textbooks still teach cofactor expansion before LU factorization.\n\nThe Leibniz formula for states that\nLeibniz wrote that circles \"can most simply be expressed by this series, that is, the aggregate of fractions alternately added and subtracted.\" However this formula is only accurate with a large number of terms, using 10,000,000 terms to obtain the correct value of to 8 decimal places. Leibniz attempted to create a definition for a straight line while attempting to prove the parallel postulate. While most mathematicians defined a straight line as the shortest line between two points, Leibniz believed that this was merely a property of a straight line rather than the definition.\n\nLeibniz is credited, along with Sir Isaac Newton, with the discovery of calculus (differential and integral calculus). According to Leibniz's notebooks, a critical breakthrough occurred on 11 November 1675, when he employed integral calculus for the first time to find the area under the graph of a function . He introduced several notations used to this day, for instance the integral sign , representing an elongated S, from the Latin word \"summa\", and the used for differentials, from the Latin word \"differentia\". Leibniz did not publish anything about his calculus until 1684. Leibniz expressed the inverse relation of integration and differentiation, later called the fundamental theorem of calculus, by means of a figure in his 1693 paper \"Supplementum geometriae dimensoriae...\". However, James Gregory is credited for the theorem's discovery in geometric form, Isaac Barrow proved a more generalized geometric version, and Newton developed supporting theory. The concept became more transparent as developed through Leibniz's formalism and new notation. The product rule of differential calculus is still called \"Leibniz's law\". In addition, the theorem that tells how and when to differentiate under the integral sign is called the Leibniz integral rule.\n\nLeibniz exploited infinitesimals in developing calculus, manipulating them in ways suggesting that they had paradoxical algebraic properties. George Berkeley, in a tract called \"The Analyst\" and also in \"De Motu\", criticized these. A recent study argues that Leibnizian calculus was free of contradictions, and was better grounded than Berkeley's empiricist criticisms.\nFrom 1711 until his death, Leibniz was engaged in a dispute with John Keill, Newton and others, over whether Leibniz had invented calculus independently of Newton. This subject is treated at length in the article Leibniz–Newton calculus controversy.\n\nThe use of infinitesimals in mathematics was frowned upon by followers of Karl Weierstrass, but survived in science and engineering, and even in rigorous mathematics, via the fundamental computational device known as the differential. Beginning in 1960, Abraham Robinson worked out a rigorous foundation for Leibniz's infinitesimals, using model theory, in the context of a field of hyperreal numbers. The resulting non-standard analysis can be seen as a belated vindication of Leibniz's mathematical reasoning. Robinson's transfer principle is a mathematical implementation of Leibniz's heuristic law of continuity, while the standard part function implements the Leibnizian transcendental law of homogeneity.\n\nLeibniz was the first to use the term \"analysis situs\", later used in the 19th century to refer to what is now known as topology. There are two takes on this situation. On the one hand, Mates, citing a 1954 paper in German by Jacob Freudenthal, argues:\n\nAlthough for Leibniz the situs of a sequence of points is completely determined by the distance between them and is altered if those distances are altered, his admirer Euler, in the famous 1736 paper solving the Königsberg Bridge Problem and its generalizations, used the term \"geometria situs\" in such a sense that the situs remains unchanged under topological deformations. He mistakenly credits Leibniz with originating this concept. ... [It] is sometimes not realized that Leibniz used the term in an entirely different sense and hence can hardly be considered the founder of that part of mathematics.\n\nBut Hideaki Hirano argues differently, quoting Mandelbrot:\n\nTo sample Leibniz' scientific works is a sobering experience. Next to calculus, and to other thoughts that have been carried out to completion, the number and variety of premonitory thrusts is overwhelming. We saw examples in \"packing\", ... My Leibniz mania is further reinforced by finding that for one moment its hero attached importance to geometric scaling. In \"Euclidis Prota\" ..., which is an attempt to tighten Euclid's axioms, he states ...: \"I have diverse definitions for the straight line. The straight line is a curve, any part of which is similar to the whole, and it alone has this property, not only among curves but among sets.\" This claim can be proved today.\n\nThus the fractal geometry promoted by Mandelbrot drew on Leibniz's notions of self-similarity and the principle of continuity: \"Natura non facit saltus\". We also see that when Leibniz wrote, in a metaphysical vein, that \"the straight line is a curve, any part of which is similar to the whole\", he was anticipating topology by more than two centuries. As for \"packing\", Leibniz told his friend and correspondent Des Bosses to imagine a circle, then to inscribe within it three congruent circles with maximum radius; the latter smaller circles could be filled with three even smaller circles by the same procedure. This process can be continued infinitely, from which arises a good idea of self-similarity. Leibniz's improvement of Euclid's axiom contains the same concept.\n\nLeibniz's writings are currently discussed, not only for their anticipations and possible discoveries not yet recognized, but as ways of advancing present knowledge. Much of his writing on physics is included in Gerhardt's \"Mathematical Writings\".\n\nLeibniz contributed a fair amount to the statics and dynamics emerging around him, often disagreeing with Descartes and Newton. He devised a new theory of motion (dynamics) based on kinetic energy and potential energy, which posited space as relative, whereas Newton was thoroughly convinced that space was absolute. An important example of Leibniz's mature physical thinking is his \"Specimen Dynamicum\" of 1695.\n\nUntil the discovery of subatomic particles and the quantum mechanics governing them, many of Leibniz's speculative ideas about aspects of nature not reducible to statics and dynamics made little sense. For instance, he anticipated Albert Einstein by arguing, against Newton, that space, time and motion are relative, not absolute: \"As for my own opinion, I have said more than once, that I hold space to be something merely relative, as time is, that I hold it to be an order of coexistences, as time is an order of successions.\"\n\nLeibniz held a relationist notion of space and time, against Newton's substantivalist views. According to Newton's substantivalism, space and time are entities in their own right, existing independently of things. Leibniz's relationism, on the other hand, describes space and time as systems of relations that exist between objects. The rise of general relativity and subsequent work in the history of physics has put Leibniz's stance in a more favorable light.\n\nOne of Leibniz's projects was to recast Newton's theory as a vortex theory. However, his project went beyond vortex theory, since at its heart there was an attempt to explain one of the most difficult problems in physics, that of the origin of the cohesion of matter.\n\nThe principle of sufficient reason has been invoked in recent cosmology, and his identity of indiscernibles in quantum mechanics, a field some even credit him with having anticipated in some sense. Those who advocate digital philosophy, a recent direction in cosmology, claim Leibniz as a precursor. In addition to his theories about the nature of reality, Leibniz's contributions to the development of calculus have also had a major impact on physics.\n\nLeibniz's \"vis viva\" (Latin for \"living force\") is , twice the modern kinetic energy. He realized that the total energy would be conserved in certain mechanical systems, so he considered it an innate motive characteristic of matter. Here too his thinking gave rise to another regrettable nationalistic dispute. His \"vis viva\" was seen as rivaling the conservation of momentum championed by Newton in England and by Descartes in France; hence academics in those countries tended to neglect Leibniz's idea. In reality, both energy and momentum are conserved, so the two approaches are equally valid.\n\nBy proposing that the earth has a molten core, he anticipated modern geology. In embryology, he was a preformationist, but also proposed that organisms are the outcome of a combination of an infinite number of possible microstructures and of their powers. In the life sciences and paleontology, he revealed an amazing transformist intuition, fueled by his study of comparative anatomy and fossils. One of his principal works on this subject, \"Protogaea\", unpublished in his lifetime, has recently been published in English for the first time. He worked out a primal organismic theory. In medicine, he exhorted the physicians of his time—with some results—to ground their theories in detailed comparative observations and verified experiments, and to distinguish firmly scientific and metaphysical points of view.\n\nPsychology had been a central interest of Leibniz. He appears to be an \"underappreciated pioneer of psychology\" He wrote on topics which are now regarded as fields of psychology: attention and consciousness, memory, learning (association), motivation (the act of \"striving\"), emergent individuality, the general dynamics of development (evolutionary psychology). His discussions in the \"New Essays\" and \"Monadology\" often rely on everyday observations such as the behaviour of a dog or the noise of the sea, and he develops intuitive analogies (the synchronous running of clocks or the balance spring of a clock). He also devised postulates and principles that apply to psychology: the continuum of the unnoticed \"petite perceptions\" to the distinct, self-aware apperception, and psychophysical parallelism from the point of view of causality and of purpose: “Souls act according to the laws of final causes, through aspirations, ends and means. Bodies act according to the laws of efficient causes, i.e. the laws of motion. And these two realms, that of efficient causes and that of final causes, harmonize with one another.” This idea refers to the mind-body problem, stating that the mind and brain do not act upon each other, but act alongside each other separately but in harmony. Leibniz, however, did not use the term \"psychologia\".\nLeibniz’ epistemological position—against John Locke and English empiricism (sensualism)—was made clear: “Nihil est in intellectu quod non fuerit in sensu, nisi intellectu ipse.” – “Nothing is in the intellect that was not first in the senses, except the intellect itself.” Principles that are not present in sensory impressions can be recognised in human perception and consciousness: logical inferences, categories of thought, the principle of causality and the principle of purpose (teleology). \nLeibniz found his most important interpreter in Wilhelm Wundt, founder of psychology as a discipline. Wundt used the \"… nisi intellectu ipse\" quotation 1862 on the title page of his \"Beiträge zur Theorie der Sinneswahrnehmung\" (Contributions on the Theory of Sensory Perception) and published a detailed and aspiring monograph on Leibniz Wundt shaped the term apperception, introduced by Leibniz, into an experimental psychologically based apperception psychology that included neuropsychological modelling – an excellent example of how a concept created by a great philosopher could stimulate a psychological research program. One principle in the thinking of Leibniz played a fundamental role: “the principle of equality of separate but corresponding viewpoints.” Wundt characterized this style of thought (perspectivism) in a way that also applied for him—viewpoints that \"supplement one another, while also being able to appear as opposites that only resolve themselves when considered more deeply.\" \nMuch of Leibniz's work went on to have a great impact on the field of psychology. Leibniz thought that there are many petites perceptions, or small perceptions of which we perceive but of which we are unaware. He believed that by the principle that phenomena found in nature were continuous by default, it was likely that the transition between conscious and unconscious states had intermediary steps. For this to be true, there must also be a portion of the mind of which we are unaware at any given time. His theory regarding consciousness in relation to the principle of continuity can be seen as an early theory regarding the stages of sleep. In this way, Leibniz's theory of perception can be viewed as one of many theories leading up to the idea of the unconscious. Leibniz was a direct influence on Ernst Platner, who is credited with originally coining the term Unbewußtseyn (unconscious). Additionally, the idea of subliminal stimuli can be traced back to his theory of small perceptions. Leibniz's ideas regarding music and tonal perception went on to influence the laboratory studies of Wilhelm Wundt.\n\nIn public health, he advocated establishing a medical administrative authority, with powers over epidemiology and veterinary medicine. He worked to set up a coherent medical training program, oriented towards public health and preventive measures. In economic policy, he proposed tax reforms and a national insurance program, and discussed the balance of trade. He even proposed something akin to what much later emerged as game theory. In sociology he laid the ground for communication theory.\n\nIn 1906, Garland published a volume of Leibniz's writings bearing on his many practical inventions and engineering work. To date, few of these writings have been translated into English. Nevertheless, it is well understood that Leibniz was a serious inventor, engineer, and applied scientist, with great respect for practical life. Following the motto \"theoria cum praxi\", he urged that theory be combined with practical application, and thus has been claimed as the father of applied science. He designed wind-driven propellers and water pumps, mining machines to extract ore, hydraulic presses, lamps, submarines, clocks, etc. With Denis Papin, he invented a steam engine. He even proposed a method for desalinating water. From 1680 to 1685, he struggled to overcome the chronic flooding that afflicted the ducal silver mines in the Harz Mountains, but did not succeed.\n\nLeibniz may have been the first computer scientist and information theorist. Early in life, he documented the binary numeral system (base 2), then revisited that system throughout his career. While Leibniz was examining other cultures to compare his metaphysical views, he encountered an ancient Chinese book \"I Ching\". Leibniz interpreted a diagram which showed yin and yang and corresponded it to a zero and one. More information can be found in the Sinophile section. Leibniz may have plagiarized Juan Caramuel y Lobkowitz and Thomas Harriot, who independently developed the binary system, as he was familiar with their works on the binary system. Juan Caramuel y Lobkowitz worked extensively on logarithms including logarithms with base 2. Thomas Harriot's manuscripts contained a table of binary numbers and their notation, which demonstrated that any number could be written on a base 2 system. Regardless, Leibniz simplified the binary system and articulated logical properties such as conjunction, disjunction, negation, identity, inclusion, and the empty set. He anticipated Lagrangian interpolation and algorithmic information theory. His calculus ratiocinator anticipated aspects of the universal Turing machine. In 1961, Norbert Wiener suggested that Leibniz should be considered the patron saint of cybernetics.\n\nIn 1671, Leibniz began to invent a machine that could execute all four arithmetic operations, gradually improving it over a number of years. This \"stepped reckoner\" attracted fair attention and was the basis of his election to the Royal Society in 1673. A number of such machines were made during his years in Hanover by a craftsman working under his supervision. They were not an unambiguous success because they did not fully mechanize the carry operation. Couturat reported finding an unpublished note by Leibniz, dated 1674, describing a machine capable of performing some algebraic operations. Leibniz also devised a (now reproduced) cipher machine, recovered by Nicholas Rescher in 2010. In 1693, Leibniz described a design of a machine which could, in theory, integrate differential equations, which he called \"integraph\".\n\nLeibniz was groping towards hardware and software concepts worked out much later by Charles Babbage and Ada Lovelace. In 1679, while mulling over his binary arithmetic, Leibniz imagined a machine in which binary numbers were represented by marbles, governed by a rudimentary sort of punched cards. Modern electronic digital computers replace Leibniz's marbles moving by gravity with shift registers, voltage gradients, and pulses of electrons, but otherwise they run roughly as Leibniz envisioned in 1679.\n\nLater in Leibniz’s career (after the death of von Boinburg), Leibniz moved to Paris and accepted a position as a librarian in the Hanoverian court of Johann Friedrich, Duke of Brunswick-Luneburg. Leibniz’s predecessor, Tobias Fleischer, had already created a cataloging system for the Duke’s library but it was a clumsy attempt. At this library, Leibniz focused more on advancing the library than on the cataloging. For instance, within a month of taking the new position, he developed a comprehensive plan to expand the library. He was one of the first to consider developing a core collection for a library and felt “that a library for display and ostentation is a luxury and indeed superfluous, but a well-stocked and organized library is important and useful for all areas of human endeavor and is to be regarded on the same level as schools and churches”. Unfortunately, Leibniz lacked the funds to develop the library in this manner. After working at this library, by the end of 1690 Leibnez was appointed as privy-councilor and librarian of the Bibliotheca Augusta at Wolfenbuettel. It was an extensive library with at least 25,946 printed volumes. At this library, Leibniz sought to improve the catalog. He was not allowed to make complete changes to the existing closed catalog, but was allowed to improve upon it so he started on that task immediately. He created an alphabetical author catalog and had also created other cataloging methods that were not implemented. While serving as librarian of the ducal libraries in Hanover and Wolfenbuettel, Leibniz effectively became one of the founders of library science. He also designed a book indexing system in ignorance of the only other such system then extant, that of the Bodleian Library at Oxford University. He also called on publishers to distribute abstracts of all new titles they produced each year, in a standard form that would facilitate indexing. He hoped that this abstracting project would eventually include everything printed from his day back to Gutenberg. Neither proposal met with success at the time, but something like them became standard practice among English language publishers during the 20th century, under the aegis of the Library of Congress and the British Library.\n\nHe called for the creation of an empirical database as a way to further all sciences. His \"characteristica universalis\", calculus ratiocinator, and a \"community of minds\"—intended, among other things, to bring political and religious unity to Europe—can be seen as distant unwitting anticipations of artificial languages (e.g., Esperanto and its rivals), symbolic logic, even the World Wide Web.\n\nLeibniz emphasized that research was a collaborative endeavor. Hence he warmly advocated the formation of national scientific societies along the lines of the British Royal Society and the French Academie Royale des Sciences. More specifically, in his correspondence and travels he urged the creation of such societies in Dresden, Saint Petersburg, Vienna, and Berlin. Only one such project came to fruition; in 1700, the Berlin Academy of Sciences was created. Leibniz drew up its first statutes, and served as its first President for the remainder of his life. That Academy evolved into the German Academy of Sciences, the publisher of the ongoing critical edition of his works.\n\nWith the possible exception of Marcus Aurelius, no philosopher has ever had as much experience with practical affairs of state as Leibniz. Leibniz's writings on law, ethics, and politics were long overlooked by English-speaking scholars, but this has changed of late.\n\nWhile Leibniz was no apologist for absolute monarchy like Hobbes, or for tyranny in any form, neither did he echo the political and constitutional views of his contemporary John Locke, views invoked in support of liberalism, in 18th-century America and later elsewhere. The following excerpt from a 1695 letter to Baron J. C. Boyneburg's son Philipp is very revealing of Leibniz's political sentiments:\n\nAs for ... the great question of the power of sovereigns and the obedience their peoples owe them, I usually say that it would be good for princes to be persuaded that their people have the right to resist them, and for the people, on the other hand, to be persuaded to obey them passively. I am, however, quite of the opinion of Grotius, that one ought to obey as a rule, the evil of revolution being greater beyond comparison than the evils causing it. Yet I recognize that a prince can go to such excess, and place the well-being of the state in such danger, that the obligation to endure ceases. This is most rare, however, and the theologian who authorizes violence under this pretext should take care against excess; excess being infinitely more dangerous than deficiency.\n\nIn 1677, Leibniz called for a European confederation, governed by a council or senate, whose members would represent entire nations and would be free to vote their consciences; this is sometimes considered an anticipation of the European Union. He believed that Europe would adopt a uniform religion. He reiterated these proposals in 1715.\n\nBut at the same time, he arrived to propose an interreligious and multicultural project to create a universal system of justice, which required from him a broad interdisciplinary perspective. In order to propose it, he combined linguistics, especially sinology, moral and law philosophy, management, economics, and politics.\n\nLeibniz devoted considerable intellectual and diplomatic effort to what would now be called ecumenical endeavor, seeking to reconcile first the Roman Catholic and Lutheran churches, and later the Lutheran and Reformed churches. In this respect, he followed the example of his early patrons, Baron von Boyneburg and the Duke John Frederick—both cradle Lutherans who converted to Catholicism as adults—who did what they could to encourage the reunion of the two faiths, and who warmly welcomed such endeavors by others. (The House of Brunswick remained Lutheran because the Duke's children did not follow their father.) These efforts included corresponding with the French bishop Jacques-Bénigne Bossuet, and involved Leibniz in some theological controversy. He evidently thought that the thoroughgoing application of reason would suffice to heal the breach caused by the Reformation.\n\nLeibniz the philologist was an avid student of languages, eagerly latching on to any information about vocabulary and grammar that came his way. He refuted the belief, widely held by Christian scholars in his day, that Hebrew was the primeval language of the human race. He also refuted the argument, advanced by Swedish scholars in his day, that a form of proto-Swedish was the ancestor of the Germanic languages. He puzzled over the origins of the Slavic languages and was fascinated by classical Chinese. Leibniz was also an expert in the Sanskrit language.\n\nHe published the \"princeps editio\" (first modern edition) of the late medieval \"Chronicon Holtzatiae\", a Latin chronicle of the County of Holstein.\n\nLeibniz was perhaps the first major European intellectual to take a close interest in Chinese civilization, which he knew by corresponding with, and reading other works by, European Christian missionaries posted in China. Having read \"Confucius Sinarum Philosophus\" on the first year of its publication, he concluded that Europeans could learn much from the Confucian ethical tradition. He mulled over the possibility that the Chinese characters were an unwitting form of his universal characteristic. He noted with fascination how the \"I Ching\" hexagrams correspond to the binary numbers from 000000 to 111111, and concluded that this mapping was evidence of major Chinese accomplishments in the sort of philosophical mathematics he admired. Leibniz communicated his ideas of the binary system representing Christianity to the Emperor of China hoping it would convert him. Leibniz may be the only major Western philosopher who attempted to accommodate Confucian ideas to prevailing European beliefs.\n\nLeibniz's attraction to Chinese philosophy originates from his perception that Chinese philosophy was similar to his own. The historian E.R. Hughes suggests that Leibniz's ideas of \"simple substance\" and \"pre-established harmony\" were directly influenced by Confucianism, pointing to the fact that they were conceived during the period that he was reading \"Confucius Sinarum Philosophus\".\n\nWhile making his grand tour of European archives to research the Brunswick family history that he never completed, Leibniz stopped in Vienna between May 1688 and February 1689, where he did much legal and diplomatic work for the Brunswicks. He visited mines, talked with mine engineers, and tried to negotiate export contracts for lead from the ducal mines in the Harz mountains. His proposal that the streets of Vienna be lit with lamps burning rapeseed oil was implemented. During a formal audience with the Austrian Emperor and in subsequent memoranda, he advocated reorganizing the Austrian economy, reforming the coinage of much of central Europe, negotiating a Concordat between the Habsburgs and the Vatican, and creating an imperial research library, official archive, and public insurance fund. He wrote and published an important paper on mechanics.\n\nLeibniz also wrote a short paper, \"Primae veritates\", first published by Louis Couturat in 1903 (pp. 518–523) summarizing his views on metaphysics. The paper is undated; that he wrote it while in Vienna in 1689 was determined only in 1999, when the ongoing critical edition finally published Leibniz's philosophical writings for the period 1677–90. Couturat's reading of this paper was the launching point for much 20th-century thinking about Leibniz, especially among analytic philosophers. But after a meticulous study of all of Leibniz's philosophical writings up to 1688—a study the 1999 additions to the critical edition made possible—Mercer (2001) begged to differ with Couturat's reading; the jury is still out.\n\nWhen Leibniz died, his reputation was in decline. He was remembered for only one book, the \"Théodicée\", whose supposed central argument Voltaire lampooned in his popular book \"Candide\", which concludes with the character Candide saying, \"Non liquet\" (it is not clear), a term that was applied during the Roman Republic to a legal verdict of \"not proven\". Voltaire's depiction of Leibniz's ideas was so influential that many believed it to be an accurate description. Thus Voltaire and his \"Candide\" bear some of the blame for the lingering failure to appreciate and understand Leibniz's ideas. Leibniz had an ardent disciple, Christian Wolff, whose dogmatic and facile outlook did Leibniz's reputation much harm. He also influenced David Hume who read his \"Théodicée\" and used some of his ideas. In any event, philosophical fashion was moving away from the rationalism and system building of the 17th century, of which Leibniz had been such an ardent proponent. His work on law, diplomacy, and history was seen as of ephemeral interest. The vastness and richness of his correspondence went unrecognized.\n\nMuch of Europe came to doubt that Leibniz had discovered calculus independently of Newton, and hence his whole work in mathematics and physics was neglected. Voltaire, an admirer of Newton, also wrote \"Candide\" at least in part to discredit Leibniz's claim to having discovered calculus and Leibniz's charge that Newton's theory of universal gravitation was incorrect.\n\nLeibniz's long march to his present glory began with the 1765 publication of the \"Nouveaux Essais\", which Kant read closely. In 1768, Louis Dutens edited the first multi-volume edition of Leibniz's writings, followed in the 19th century by a number of editions, including those edited by Erdmann, Foucher de Careil, Gerhardt, Gerland, Klopp, and Mollat. Publication of Leibniz's correspondence with notables such as Antoine Arnauld, Samuel Clarke, Sophia of Hanover, and her daughter Sophia Charlotte of Hanover, began.\n\nIn 1900, Bertrand Russell published a critical study of Leibniz's metaphysics. Shortly thereafter, Louis Couturat published an important study of Leibniz, and edited a volume of Leibniz's heretofore unpublished writings, mainly on logic. They made Leibniz somewhat respectable among 20th-century analytical and linguistic philosophers in the English-speaking world (Leibniz had already been of great influence to many Germans such as Bernhard Riemann). For example, Leibniz's phrase \"salva veritate\", meaning interchangeability without loss of or compromising the truth, recurs in Willard Quine's writings. Nevertheless, the secondary literature on Leibniz did not really blossom until after World War II. This is especially true of English speaking countries; in Gregory Brown's bibliography fewer than 30 of the English language entries were published before 1946. American Leibniz studies owe much to Leroy Loemker (1904–1985) through his translations and his interpretive essays in LeClerc (1973).\n\nNicholas Jolley has surmised that Leibniz's reputation as a philosopher is now perhaps higher than at any time since he was alive. Analytic and contemporary philosophy continue to invoke his notions of identity, individuation, and possible worlds. Work in the history of 17th- and 18th-century ideas has revealed more clearly the 17th-century \"Intellectual Revolution\" that preceded the better-known Industrial and commercial revolutions of the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\nIn 1985, the German government created the Leibniz Prize, offering an annual award of 1.55 million euros for experimental results and 770,000 euros for theoretical ones. It was the worlds largest prize for scientific achievement prior to the Fundamental Physics Prize.\n\nThe collection of manuscript papers of Leibniz at the Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Bibliothek – Niedersächische Landesbibliothek were inscribed on UNESCO's Memory of the World Register in 2007.\n\nLeibniz mainly wrote in three languages: scholastic Latin, French and German. During his lifetime, he published many pamphlets and scholarly articles, but only two \"philosophical\" books, the \"Combinatorial Art\" and the \"Théodicée\". (He published numerous pamphlets, often anonymous, on behalf of the House of Brunswick-Lüneburg, most notably the \"De jure suprematum\" a major consideration of the nature of sovereignty.) One substantial book appeared posthumously, his \"Nouveaux essais sur l'entendement humain\", which Leibniz had withheld from publication after the death of John Locke. Only in 1895, when Bodemann completed his catalogue of Leibniz's manuscripts and correspondence, did the enormous extent of Leibniz's \"Nachlass\" become clear: about 15,000 letters to more than 1000 recipients plus more than 40,000 other items. Moreover, quite a few of these letters are of essay length. Much of his vast correspondence, especially the letters dated after 1700, remains unpublished, and much of what is published has been so only in recent decades. The amount, variety, and disorder of Leibniz's writings are a predictable result of a situation he described in a letter as follows:\n\nI cannot tell you how extraordinarily distracted and spread out I am. I am trying to find various things in the archives; I look at old papers and hunt up unpublished documents. From these I hope to shed some light on the history of the [House of] Brunswick. I receive and answer a huge number of letters. At the same time, I have so many mathematical results, philosophical thoughts, and other literary innovations that should not be allowed to vanish that I often do not know where to begin.\n\nThe extant parts of the critical edition of Leibniz's writings are organized as follows:\n\nThe systematic cataloguing of all of Leibniz's \"Nachlass\" began in 1901. It was hampered by two world wars and decades of German division in two states with the cold war's \"iron curtain\" in between, separating scholars, and also scattering portions of his literary estates. The ambitious project has had to deal with seven languages contained in some 200,000 pages of written and printed paper. In 1985 it was reorganized and included in a joint program of German federal and state (\"Länder\") academies. Since then the branches in Potsdam, Münster, Hanover and Berlin have jointly published 57 volumes of the critical edition, with an average of 870 pages, and prepared index and concordance works.\n\nThe year given is usually that in which the work was completed, not of its eventual publication.\nMeditationes de cognitione, veritate et ideis\n\n\nSix important collections of English translations are Wiener (1951), Parkinson (1966), Loemker (1969), Ariew and Garber (1989), Woolhouse and Francks (1998), and Strickland (2006). The ongoing critical edition of all of Leibniz's writings is \"Sämtliche Schriften und Briefe\".\n\nLeibniz is receiving popular attention. The Google Doodle for July 1, 2018 celebrated Leibniz's 372nd birthday. Using a quill, his hand is shown writing \"Google\" in binary ASCII code.\n\nOne of the earliest popular but indirect exposition of Leibniz was Voltaire's satire \"Candide\", published in 1759. Leibniz was lampooned as Professor Pangloss, described as \"the greatest philosopher of the Holy Roman Empire\".\n\nLeibniz also appears as one of the main historical figures in Neal Stephenson's series of novels \"The Baroque Cycle\". Stephenson credits readings and discussions concerning Leibniz for inspiring him to write the series.\n\n\n\nAn updated bibliography of more than 25.000 titles is available at Leibniz Bibliographie.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35969268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35969268", "title": "Grid format", "text": "Grid format\n\nThe grid format has been an important component of avant-garde visual art throughout the 20th century and into the 21st century. Early appearances of the grid format include work by Piet Mondrian, Kazimir Malevich and other artists belonging to the De Stijl and Constructivist movements. The grid format also features prominently in minimalist and conceptual art of the 60's and 70's. The art theorist Rosalind Krauss writes,\n\n\"In the temporal dimension, the grid is an emblem of modernity by being just that: the form that is ubiquitous in the art of our century, while appearing nowhere, nowhere at all, in the art of the last one. In that great chain of reactions by which modernism was born out of the efforts of the nineteenth century, one final shift resulted in breaking the chain. By \"discovering\" the grid, cubism, de Stijl, Mondrian, Malevich . .. landed in a place that was out of reach of everything that went before. Which is to say, they landed in the present, and everything else was declared to be the past.\"\n\nOther notable occurrences of the grid format include Sol Lewitt's modular structures, Chuck Close's photorealist grids and more recently in Damien Hirst's Spot Paintings. Other contemporary artists such as Penelope Umbrico have used it to imply non-hierarchical organization in massive collections of objects.\n"}
{"id": "33900852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33900852", "title": "Immutable truth", "text": "Immutable truth\n\nIn philosophy and logic, an immutable truth is an unchanging universal fact or reality that is not influenced by human opinion. According to positivism, observation and experience are the only ways for immutable truths to become fully realized or understood.\n\n"}
{"id": "50067319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50067319", "title": "James Hugo Sporleder", "text": "James Hugo Sporleder\n\nJames Hugo Sporleder (born February 21, 1938) is a civil rights activist recognized for his work with the Freedom of Residence Movement: the driving force behind the landmark Jones v. Mayer Supreme Court case that invalidated racist practices of homebuilders in St. Louis, Missouri.\n\nHe was the lead staff person of Freedom of Residence, an early fair housing organization in the 1960s. Freedom of Residence was the driving force behind the landmark Jones v. Mayer Supreme Court case that invalidated racist practices of homebuilders in St. Louis. The Civil Rights Litigation Clearinghouse said this of Jones v. Mayer, “This case was one of the most important civil rights precedents of the 1960s. It began when the Plaintiffs, prospective African-American homebuyers, applied to purchase a property from Defendant-home developer, who rejected them solely on the basis of their race. Plaintiffs sued in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri under 42 U.S.C. 1981, 1982, 1983, and 2000e, alleging that a race-based denial of a home purchase violated federal civil rights laws, especially the requirement in 42 U.S.C. 1982 that: ‘All citizens of the United States shall have the same right, in every State and Territory, as is enjoyed by white citizens thereof to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold, and convey real and personal property.’”\n\nJim began working at Freedom of Residence in 1968 and the case was already en route to the Supreme Court. He worked with the legal team, headed by Sam Lieberman, to bring to fruition this landmark case. As important he then continued to push the implementation of the new law of the land through Freedom of Residence. When he testified to the United States Senate in May of 1972 on these same unfair practices of lenders and real estate developers he said, “When Lockheed was in trouble, this government figured out a way to help. When the oil industry was in trouble, we helped them. When ITT got into trouble somebody figured a way to help out. And now the people are in trouble. The people are hurting and asking for help. . . . We cannot sweep these practices and exploitive operations of the combination of lenders, real estate dealers, insurance people, and politicians under the table. It must stop.” Always fighting for what was right.\n\nJim also worked for the Urban League, the Nurse Home Visitation Program, the Judevine Center and Jeff Vander Lou, Inc. (JVL). His work at JVL is the second highlight of his professional career. He was the de facto Chief Operating Officer of JVL from the mid 1970s to the mid 1980s working side by side with Macler Shepard the longtime leader and founder of the organization. JVL was a community development organization working in the north city area bounded by Jefferson, Vandeventer and St. Louis Avenues. JVL was a leader in the region in that it was run by local residents and produced affordable housing for both families and seniors, created an innovative partnership with Brown Shoe Company that led to a production plant in the neighborhood, opened a coffee shop and day care center. Simply amazing and that type of work rarely gets accomplished today.\n"}
{"id": "4043275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4043275", "title": "Late modernity", "text": "Late modernity\n\nLate modernity (or liquid modernity) is the characterization of today's highly developed global societies as the continuation (or development) of modernity rather than as an element of the succeeding era known as postmodernity, or the postmodern.\n\nIntroduced as 'liquid' modernity by the Polish-British sociologist Zygmunt Bauman, late modernity is marked by the global capitalist economies with their increasing privatisation of services and by the information revolution.\n\nSocial theorists and sociologists such as Scott Lash, Ulrich Beck, Zygmunt Bauman and Anthony Giddens maintain (against postmodernists) that modernization continues into the contemporary era, which is thus better conceived as a radical state of late modernity. On technological and social changes since the 1960s, the concept of \"late modernity\" proposes that contemporary societies are a clear continuation of modern institutional transitions and cultural developments. Such authors talk about a reflexive modernization process: in Giddens' words, \"social practices are constantly examined and reformed in the light of incoming information about those very practices, thus constitutively altering their character\". Modernity now tends to be self-referring, instead of being defined largely in opposition to traditionalism, as with classical modernity.\n\nAnthony Giddens does not dispute that important changes have occurred since \"high\" modernity, but he argues that we have not truly abandoned modernity. Rather, the modernity of contemporary society is a developed, radicalized, 'late' modernity—but still modernity, not postmodernity. In such a perspective, postmodernism appears only as a hyper-technological version of modernity.<nowiki>'</nowiki>\n\nThe subject is constructed in late modernity against the backdrop of a fragmented world of competing and contrasting identities and life-style cultures. The framing matrix of the late modern personality is the ambiguous way the fluid social relations of late modernity impinge on the individual, producing a reflexive and multiple self.\n\nZygmunt Bauman, who introduced the idea of liquid modernity, wrote that its characteristics are about the individual, namely increasing feelings of uncertainty and the privatization of ambivalence. It is a kind of chaotic continuation of modernity, where a person can shift from one social position to another in a fluid manner. Nomadism becomes a general trait of the 'liquid modern' man as he flows through his own life like a tourist, changing places, jobs, spouses, values and sometimes moresuch as political or sexual orientationexcluding himself from traditional networks of support, while also freeing himself from the restrictions or requirements those networks impose.\n\nBauman stressed the new burden of responsibility that fluid modernism placed on the individualtraditional patterns would be replaced by self-chosen ones. Entry into the globalized society was open to anyone with their own stance and the ability to fund it, in a similar way as was the reception of travellers at the old-fashioned caravanserai. The result is a normative mindset with emphasis on shifting rather than on stayingon provisional in lieu of permanent (or 'solid') commitmentwhich (the new style) can lead a person astray towards a prison of their own existential creation.\n\n"}
{"id": "18562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18562", "title": "Leet", "text": "Leet\n\nLeet (or \"1337\"), also known as eleet or leetspeak, is a system of modified spellings used primarily on the Internet. It often uses character replacements in ways that play on the similarity of their glyphs via reflection or other resemblance. Additionally, it modifies certain words based on a system of suffixes and alternate meanings. There are many dialects or linguistic varieties in different online communities.\n\nThe term \"leet\" is derived from the word \"elite\", used as an adjective to describe formidable prowess or accomplishment, especially in the fields of online gaming and computer hacking. The leet lexicon includes spellings of the word as \"1337\" or \"l33t\".\n\nLeet originated within bulletin board systems (BBS) in the 1980s, where having \"elite\" status on a BBS allowed a user access to file folders, games, and special chat rooms. The Cult of the Dead Cow hacker collective has been credited with the original coining of the term, in their text-files of that era. One theory is that it was developed to defeat text filters created by BBS or Internet Relay Chat system operators for message boards to discourage the discussion of forbidden topics, like cracking and hacking. Creative misspellings and ASCII-art-derived words were also a way to attempt to indicate one was knowledgeable about the culture of computer users. \n\nOnce the reserve of hackers, crackers, and script kiddies, leet has since entered the mainstream. It is now also used to mock newbies, also known colloquially as noobs, or newcomers, on web sites, or in gaming communities. Some consider emoticons and ASCII art, like smiley faces, to be leet, while others maintain that leet consists of only symbolic word encryption. More obscure forms of leet, involving the use of symbol combinations and almost no letters or numbers, continue to be used for its original purpose of encrypted communication. It is also sometimes used as a script language. Variants of leet have been used for censorship purposes for many years; for instance \"@$$\" (ass) and \"$#!+\" (shit) are frequently seen to make a word appear censored to the untrained eye but obvious to a person familiar with leet.\n\nLeet symbols, especially the number 1337, are Internet memes that have spilled over into popular culture. Signs that show the numbers \"1337\" are popular motifs for pictures and shared widely across the Internet.\n\nOne of the hallmarks of leet is its unique approach to orthography, using substitutions of other characters, letters or otherwise, to represent a letter or letters in a word. For more casual use of leet, the primary strategy is to use homoglyphs, symbols that closely resemble (to varying degrees) the letters for which they stand. The choice of symbol is not fixed—anything that the reader can make sense of is valid. However, this practice is not extensively used in regular leet; more often it is seen in situations where the argot (i.e., secret language) characteristics of the system are required, either to exclude newbies or outsiders in general, i.e., anything that the \"average\" reader \"cannot\" make sense of is valid; a valid reader should himself try to make sense, if deserving of the underlying message. Another use for Leet orthographic substitutions is the creation of paraphrased passwords. Limitations imposed by websites on password length (usually no more than 36) and the characters permitted (usually alphanumeric and underscore) require less extensive forms of Leet when used in this application.\n\nSome examples of leet include \"B1ff\" and \"n00b\", a term for the stereotypical newbie; the l33t programming language; and the web-comic \"Megatokyo\", which contains characters who speak leet.\n\nText rendered in leet is often characterized by distinctive, recurring forms.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLeet can be pronounced as a single syllable, , rhyming with \"eat,\" by way of aphesis of the initial vowel of \"elite\". It may also be pronounced as two syllables, . Like hacker slang, leet enjoys a looser grammar than standard English. The loose grammar, just like loose spelling, encodes some level of emphasis, ironic or otherwise. A reader must rely more on intuitive parsing of leet to determine the meaning of a sentence rather than the actual sentence structure. In particular, speakers of leet are fond of verbing nouns, turning verbs into nouns (and back again) as forms of emphasis, e.g. \"Austin rocks\" is weaker than \"Austin roxxorz\" (note spelling), which is weaker than \"Au5t1N is t3h r0xx0rz\" (note grammar), which is weaker than something like \"0MFG D00D /\\Ü571N 15 T3H l_l83Я 1337 Я0XX0ЯZ\" (OMG, dude, Austin is the über-elite rocks-er!). In essence, all of these mean \"Austin rocks,\" not necessarily the other options. Added words and misspellings add to the speaker's enjoyment. Leet, like hacker slang, employs analogy in construction of new words. For example, if \"haxored\" is the past tense of the verb \"to hack\" (hack → haxor → haxored), then \"winzored\" would be easily understood to be the past tense conjugation of \"to win,\" even if the reader had not seen that particular word before.\n\nLeet has its own colloquialisms, many of which originated as jokes based on common typing errors, habits of new computer users, or knowledge of cyberculture and history. Leet is not solely based upon one language or character set. Greek, Russian, and other languages have leet forms, and leet in one language may use characters from another where they are available. As such, while it may be referred to as a \"cipher\", a \"dialect\", or a \"language\", leet does not fit squarely into any of these categories. The term \"leet\" itself is often written \"31337\", or \"1337\", and many other variations. After the meaning of these became widely familiar, \"10100111001\" came to be used in its place, because it is the binary form of \"1337\" decimal, making it more of a puzzle to interpret. An increasingly common characteristic of leet is the changing of grammatical usage so as to be deliberately incorrect. The widespread popularity of deliberate misspelling is similar to the cult following of the \"All your base are belong to us\" phrase. Indeed, the online and computer communities have been international from their inception, so spellings and phrases typical of non-native speakers are quite common.\n\nMany words originally derived from leet slang have now become part of the modern Internet slang, such as \"pwned\". The original driving forces of new vocabulary in leet were common misspellings and typing errors such as \"teh\" (generally considered lolspeak), and intentional misspellings, especially the \"z\" at the end of words (\"skillz\"). Another prominent example of a surviving leet expression is \"w00t\", an exclamation of joy. w00t is sometimes used as a backronym for \"We owned the other team.\"\n\nNew words (or corruptions thereof) may arise from a need to make one's username unique. As any given Internet service reaches more people, the number of names available to a given user is drastically reduced. While many users may wish to have the username \"CatLover,\" for example, in many cases it is only possible for one user to have the moniker. As such, degradations of the name may evolve, such as \"C@7L0vr.\" As the leet cipher is highly dynamic, there is a wider possibility for multiple users to share the \"same\" name, through combinations of spelling and transliterations.\n\nAdditionally, \"leet\"—the word itself—can be found in the screen-names and gamertags of many Internet and video games. Use of the term in such a manner announces a high level of skill, though such an announcement may be seen as baseless hubris. \n\n\"Warez\" (nominally ) is a plural shortening of \"software\", typically referring to cracked and redistributed software. \"Phreaking\" refers to the hacking of telephone systems and other non-Internet equipment. \"Teh\" originated as a typographical error of \"the\", and is sometimes spelled \"t3h\". \"j00\" takes the place of \"you\", originating from the affricate sound that occurs in place of the palatal approximant, , when \"you\" follows a word ending in an alveolar plosive consonant, such as or . Also, from German, is \"über\", which means \"over\" or \"above\"; it usually appears as a prefix attached to adjectives, and is frequently written without the umlaut over the \"u\".\n\n\"Haxor\", and derivations thereof, is leet for \"hacker\", and it is one of the most commonplace examples of the use of the \"-xor\" suffix. \"Suxxor\" (pronounced suck-zor) is a derogatory term which originated in warez culture and is currently used in multi-user environments such as multiplayer video games and instant messaging; it, like \"haxor\", is one of the early leet words to use the \"-xor\" suffix. \"Suxxor\" is a modified version of \"sucks\" (the phrase \"to suck\"), and the meaning is the same as the English slang. Its negative definition essentially makes it the opposite of \"roxxor\", and both can be used as a verb or a noun. The letters \"ck\" are often replaced with the Greek Χ (chi) in other words as well.\n\nWithin leet, the term \"n00b\", and derivations thereof, is used extensively. The word means and derives from \"newbie\" (as in new and inexperienced or uninformed), and is used as a means of segregating them as less than the \"elite,\" or even \"normal,\" members of a group.\n\n\"Owned\" and \"pwn3d\" (generally pronounced \"owned\" and \"poned\", respectively) both refer to the domination of a player in a video game or argument (rather than just a win), or the successful hacking of a website or computer.\n\nAs is a common characteristic of leet, the terms have also been adapted into noun and adjective forms, \"ownage\" and \"pwnage\", which can refer to the situation of \"pwning\" or to the superiority of its subject (e.g., \"He is a very good player. He is pwnage.\").\n\n\"Pr0n\" is slang for \"pornography\". This is a deliberately inaccurate spelling/pronunciation for \"porn\", where a zero is often used to replace the letter O. It is sometimes used in legitimate communications (such as email discussion groups, Usenet, chat rooms, and Internet web pages) to circumvent language and content filters, which may reject messages as offensive or spam. The word also helps prevent search engines from associating commercial sites with pornography, which might result in unwelcome traffic. \"Pr0n\" is also sometimes spelled backwards (n0rp) to further obscure the meaning to potentially uninformed readers. It can also refer to ASCII art depicting pornographic images, or to photos of the internals of consumer and industrial hardware. \"Prawn\", a spoof of the misspelling, has started to come into use, as well; in \"\", a pornographer films his movies on \"Prawn Island\". Conversely, in the RPG \"Kingdom of Loathing\", \"prawn\", referring to a kind of crustacean, is spelled \"pr0n\", leading to the creation of food items such as \"pr0n chow mein\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "450998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=450998", "title": "Literary element", "text": "Literary element\n\nA literary element, or narrative element, or element of literature is a constituent of all works of narrative fiction—a necessary feature of verbal storytelling that can be found in any written or spoken narrative. This distinguishes them from literary techniques, or non-universal features of literature that accompany the construction of a particular work rather than forming the essential characteristics of all narrative. For example, plot, theme, character and tone are literary elements, whereas figurative language, irony, or foreshadowing would be considered literary techniques.\n\nLiterary elements aid in the discussion of and understanding of a work of literature as basic categories of critical analysis; literary elements could be said to be produced by the readers of a work just as much as they are produced by its author. For the most part, they are popular concepts that are not limited to any particular branch of literary criticism, although they are most closely associated with the formalist method of professional literary criticism. There is no official definition or fixed list of terms of literary elements; however, they are a common feature of literary education at the primary and secondary level, and a set of terms similar to the one below often appears in institutional student evaluation. For instance, the New York State Comprehensive English Regents Exam requires that students use and discuss literary elements relating to specific works in each of the three essays.\n\n"}
{"id": "32668725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32668725", "title": "Long-slit spectroscopy", "text": "Long-slit spectroscopy\n\nIn astronomy, long-slit spectroscopy involves observing an elongated celestial object (such as a nebula or along the major axis of a disc galaxy at high inclination) through an elongated slit aperture, and refracting this light with a prism or diffraction grating. This type of spectrograph causes the Doppler shift-induced frequency distribution of the collected light to manifest as a spatial distribution through differential refraction, revealing the amplitude of the rotation curve.\n\nThis technique can be used to observe the rotation curve of a galaxy, as those stars moving towards the observer are blue-shifted, while stars moving away are red-shifted.\n\nLong-slit spectroscopy can also be used to observe the expansion of optically-thin nebulae. When the spectrographic slit extends over the diameter of a nebula, the lines of the velocity profile meet at the edges. In the middle of the nebula, the line splits in two, since one component is redshifted and one is blueshifted. The blueshifted component will appear brighter as it is on the \"near side\" of the nebula, and is as such subject to a smaller degree of attenuation as the light coming from the far side of the nebula. The tapered edges of the velocity profile stem from the fact that the material at the edge of the nebula is moving perpendicular to the line of sight and so its line of sight velocity will be zero relative to the rest of the nebula.\n\nSeveral effects can contribute to the transverse broadening of the velocity profile. Individual stars themselves rotate as they orbit, so the side approaching will be blueshifted and the side moving away will be redshifted. Stars also have random (as well as orbital) motion around the galaxy, meaning any individual star may depart significantly from the rest relative to its neighbours in the rotation curve. In spiral galaxies this random motion is small compared to the low-eccentricity orbital motion, but this is not true for an elliptical galaxy. Molecular-scale Doppler broadening will also contribute.\n\nLong-slit spectroscopy can ameliorate problems with contrast when observing structures near a very luminous source. The structure in question can be observed through a slit, thus occulting the luminous source and allowing a greater signal-to-noise ratio. An example of this application would be the observation of the kinematics of Herbig-Haro objects around their parent star.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16076816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16076816", "title": "MET Matrix", "text": "MET Matrix\n\nA MET (Materials, Energy, and Toxicity) Matrix is an analysis tool used to evaluate various environmental impacts of a product over its life cycle. The tool takes the form of a 3x3 matrix with descriptive text in each of its cells. One dimension of the matrix is composed of a qualitative input-output model that examines environmental concerns related to the product's materials use, energy use, and toxicity. The other dimension looks at the life cycle of the product through its production, use, and disposal phase. The text in each cell corresponds to the intersection of two particular aspects. For example, this means that by looking at certain cells, one can examine aspects such as energy use during the production phase, or levels of toxicity that may be a concern during the disposal phase.\n"}
{"id": "2960623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2960623", "title": "Massaccesi", "text": "Massaccesi\n\nMassaccesi is John Fanning (born 1978) of Hampton, New Hampshire, United States. He is a multimedia artist, utilizing performance, installation, physical art pieces, experimental sound compositions electronic music, video & more, generally using the themes of recycling/re-usage and unique concepts (the sound of trash in refugee camps, building a city out of a city's recycling, performances based on the southern Asian sport of Buzkashi, sleeping, worshiping trash). having released for such record labels as Phthalo. He was previously known as DJ Entox, and he used to edit a hardcore techno/gabber music fanzine called \"The Skreem\". He took his artist alias from the Italian horror film director Joe d'Amato whose real name was Aristide Massaccesi. Massaccesi has had exhibitions of work & performed numerous times around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "57720057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57720057", "title": "Models of Consciousness", "text": "Models of Consciousness\n\nModels of consciousness are used to illustrate and aid in understanding and explaining distinctive aspects consciousness. Sometimes the models are labeled theories of consciousness. Anil Seth defines such models as those that relate brain phenomena such as fast irregular electrical activity and widespread brain activation to properties of consciousness such as qualia. Seth allows for different types of models including mathematical, logical, verbal and conceptual models. \n\nThe Neural correlates of consciousness (NCC) formalism is used as a major step towards explaining consciousness. The NCC are defined to constitute the minimal set of neuronal events and mechanisms sufficient for a specific conscious percept, and consequently sufficient for consciousness. In this formalism, consciousness is viewed as a state-dependent property of some undefined complex, adaptive, and highly interconnected biological system. \n\nTimothy Leary introduced and Robert Anton Wilson and Antero Alli elaborated the Eight-circuit model of consciousness as hypothesis that \"suggested eight periods [circuits] and twenty-four stages of neurological evolution\".\n\nDaniel Dennett proposed a physicalist, information processing based multiple drafts model of consciousness described more fully in his 1991 book, Consciousness Explained.\n\nThe Dehaene–Changeux model (DCM), also known as the global neuronal workspace or the global cognitive workspace model is a computer model of the neural correlates of consciousness programmed as a neural network. Stanislas Dehaene and Jean-Pierre Changeux introduced this model in 1986. It is associated with Bernard Baars's Global workspace theory for consciousness. \n\nClouding of consciousness, also known as brain fog or mental fog, is a term used in medicine denoting an abnormality in the regulation of the overall level of consciousness that is mild and less severe than a delirium. It is part of an overall model where there's regulation of the \"overall level\" of the consciousness of the brain and aspects responsible for \"arousal\" or \"wakefulness\" and awareness of oneself and of the environment. \n\nElectromagnetic theories of consciousness propose that consciousness can be understood as an electromagnetic phenomenon that occurs when a brain produces an electromagnetic field with specific characteristics. Some electromagnetic theories are also quantum mind theories of consciousness; examples include quantum brain dynamics (QBD).\n\nOrchestrated objective reduction (Orch-OR) model is based on the hypothesis that consciousness in the brain originates from quantum processes inside neurons, rather than from connections between neurons (the conventional view). The mechanism is held to be associated with molecular structures called microtubules. The hypothesis was advanced by Roger Penrose and Stuart Hameroff and has been the subject of extensive debate, \n\nMin proposed in a 2010 paper a Thalamic reticular networking model of consciousness. The model suggests consciousness as a \"mental state embodied through TRN-modulated synchronization of thalamocortical networks\". In this model the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) is suggested as ideally suited for controlling the entire cerebral network, and responsible (via GABAergic networking) for synchronization of neural activity.\n\nFunctionalism is a view in the theory of the mind. It states that mental states (beliefs, desires, being in pain, etc.) are constituted solely by their functional role – that is, they have causal relations to other mental states, numerous sensory inputs, and behavioral outputs.\n\nSociology of human consciousness uses the theories and methodology of sociology to explain human consciousness. The theory and its models emphasize the importance of language, collective representations, self-conceptions, and self-reflectivity. It argues that the shape and feel of human consciousness is heavily social.\n"}
{"id": "8893898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8893898", "title": "Moral entrepreneur", "text": "Moral entrepreneur\n\nA moral entrepreneur is an individual, group or formal organization that seeks to influence a group to adopt or maintain a norm. Moral entrepreneurs are those who take the lead in labeling a particular behaviour and spreading or popularizing this label throughout society. This can include attributing negative labels to behaviour as well as the removal of negative labels, positively labeling, or removing positive labels. The moral entrepreneur may press for the creation or enforcement of a norm for any number of reasons, altruistic or selfish. Such individuals or groups also hold the power to generate moral panic; similarly multiple moral entrepreneurs may have conflicting goals and work to counteract each other. Some examples of moral entrepreneurs are: MADD (mothers against drunk driving), the anti-tobacco lobby, the gun control lobby, anti-pornography groups, LGBT social movements, and the pro-life and pro-choice movements (an example of two moral entrepreneurs working against each other on a single issue).\n\nThe term \"moral entrepreneur\" was coined by Howard S. Becker. In his view, moral entrepreneurs fall into roughly two categories: \"rule creators\", and \"rule enforcers\". \n\nRule creators generally express the conviction that some kind of threatening social evil exists that must be combated. They can be seen as moral crusaders, who are concerned chiefly with the successful persuasion of others, but are not concerned with the means by which this persuasion is achieved. Successful moral crusades are generally dominated by those in the upper social strata of society (Becker, 1963). They often include religious groups, lawmaking bodies, and stakeholders in a given field. There is political competition in which these moral crusaders originate crusades aimed at generating reform, based on what they think is moral, therefore defining deviance. Moral crusaders must have power, public support, generate public awareness of the issue, and be able to propose a clear and acceptable solution to the problem (Becker, 1963). The degree of a moral entrepreneur's power is highly dependent upon the social and cultural context (Reinarman, 1994). Social position determines one's ability to define and construct reality; therefore, the higher one's social position, the greater his or her moral value.\n\nAfter a time, crusaders become dependent upon experts or professionals, who serve to legitimize a moral creed on technical or scientific grounds. Rule enforcers, such as policemen, are compelled by two drives: the need to justify their own role, and the need to win respect in interactions. They are in a bind; if they show too much effectiveness one might say they are not needed, and if they show too little effectiveness one might say they are failing. Rule enforcers just feel the need to enforce the rule because that is their job; they are not really concerned with the content of the rule. As rules are changed, something that was once acceptable may now be punished and vice versa. Such officials tend to take a pessimistic view of human nature because of constant exposure to willful deviance.\n\nThe sociology of social control seeks to predict and explain the behavior of both rule creators and rule enforcers. The creation and application of explicit rules are seen as characteristics of moralism, or the tendency to treat people as enemies. Among the social conditions that are identified as sources of moralism are status superiority and social remoteness between the agents of social control and the people whose behavior they regulate. Thus, the most likely targets of both rule creators and rule enforcers are those who are socially inferior, culturally different, and personally unknown. It is their behavior that is most likely to seem objectionable and to call forth the strenuous efforts of moral entrepreneurs. Once moral entrepreneurs or claimsmakers define the behaviors of these individuals or groups as deviant or a moral threat, then the entire group may be seen by society as a deviant subculture. Similarly, they or their behavior may be seen as the roots of the next moral panic. This is often the goal of the moral entrepreneurs; to rally the support of society behind their specific aims through the redefining of behaviors and groups as deviant or problematic. Alternately, those individuals with social power, wealth, high status, or large public support bases are the most likely to assert this power and to act as a moral entrepreneur.\n\nSocial problems are born largely from socially constructed campaigns by moral entrepreneurs. In the symbolic interactionist approach to social problems (including labeling theory), social policy is not seen as the implementation of a shared consensus about what is best. Rather the society is viewed as consisting of a plurality of understandings of what is best. In order for social policy to arise, some individual or group has to initiate a social movement whose task is to articulate a definition of a social problem such that a desired social policy is consistent with this definition of the problem. These individuals or groups are referred to as moral entrepreneurs. \n\nMoral entrepreneurs are critical for moral emergence because they call attention to issues or even 'create' issues by using language that names, interprets, and dramatizes them. Typifying is a prominent rhetorical tool employed by moral entrepreneurs when attempting to define social problems. Typification is when claimsmakers characterize a problem's nature which is most commonly done by suggesting that a problem is best understood from a particular perspective (i.e. medical, moral, criminal, political, etc.) Therefore, moral entrepreneurs often engage in typification by claiming that certain behaviors or groups are acting in morally dangerous ways. Moral entrepreneurs are more successful at defining deviance when they can identify an entire group with a particular behavior and create fear that the behavior represents a danger not only to the group but also to the rest of society. Through typification and the creation of a dangerous class, moral entrepreneurs aim to place the activities of a particular group on the public's agenda and label certain actions as social problems.\n\nClaimsmakers in areas such as the problem of drinking and driving, child abuse, or date rape play an important role in the creation of the rhetoric that creates and determines what is deviant and what is a considered a problem in society. Through creating and popularizing definitions for terms relevant to the issue (such as \"rape\", \"abuse\" and \"drunk\"), claimsmakers and moral entrepreneurs can not only further their interests, but also sway the social movement and understanding of the issues themselves.\n\nMoral entrepreneurs are also central in the construction of social deviance, including the development of drug scares. The role of moral entrepreneurs in this instance, for example, is to assign responsibility to drugs for an array of preexisting public problems. (The Social Construction of Drug Scares, Reinarman). Over the course of the past century, drug laws have been passed with the intent of reducing drug problems; even if they have not done this, they have certainly expanded the power of the social control held by moral entrepreneurs. Examples of laws created by moral entrepreneurs are: Prohibition in the United States 1919, San Francisco's anti-opium den ordinance of 1875, and the Harrison Narcotics Tax Act of 1914.\n\n"}
{"id": "55657441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55657441", "title": "Municipal wastewater treatment energy management", "text": "Municipal wastewater treatment energy management\n\nSustainable energy management in the wastewater sector applies the concept of sustainable management to the energy involved in the treatment of wastewater. The energy used by the wastewater sector is usually the largest portion of energy consumed by the urban water and wastewater utilities. The rising costs of electricity, the contribution to greenhouse gas emissions of the energy sector and the growing need to mitigate global warming, are driving wastewater utilities to rethink their energy management, adopting more energy efficient technologies and processes and investing in on-site renewable energy generation.\n\nAmong the water and wastewater services of a city, wastewater treatment is usually the most energy intense process.\nWastewater treatment plants are designed with the purpose of treating the influent sewage to a set quality before discharging it back into a water body, without real concern for the energy consumption of the treating units of a plant. These facilities play the important role to protect not only the water systems but also the human health, preventing the discharge of pathogens normally present in the municipal sewage. Despite the key role of wastewater facilities, energy consumption can not be ignored anymore because of its contribution to greenhouse gas emissions and the need to reduce the emissions to mitigate global warming, as established by the Kyoto Protocol in 1997 and most recently, by the Paris Agreement. Moreover, there is uncertainty concerning energy costs. Because for a wastewater utility energy costs represent the second highest cost after labour, an increase in energy rate would further increase the operational budget of a municipality, and consequently, the service rates for consumers. \nTherefore, it is important for the wastewater sector to invest in strategies to limit the demand of energy from the grid in order to mitigate both costs and greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nPopulation growth, urbanisation, climate change and increasing demand for natural resources are among the future biggest challenges for the urban wastewater sector.\n\nWorld population and population density in urban settlements are expected to growth by 32% and 66% by 2050, respectively. An increase in population is expected to increase the volume of wastewater and sewage sludge requiring treatment. To handle a higher volume of sewage and sewage sludge, it is necessary to upgrade the existing wastewater facilities and the collection networks to collect, store and treat the expected additional volume. Therefore, an increase in volume translates in high future investment costs for a sector that has a low cost recovery rate. Moreover, as shown by Mizuta, there is a direct correlation between the volume of sewage treated and the energy consumption of a wastewater treatment plant. Hence, a rise in energy demand is expected with the upgrading of the existing wastewater facilities and the construction of new ones to cope with future population increase.\n\nGreenhouse gas emissions from human activities have almost doubled between 1970 and 2010. The increase in greenhouse gases is held responsible for the changes in climate that have caused impacts on natural systems across all continents and oceans. In particular, climate change has affected the water cycle, increasing the precipitation intensity and variability, increasing in this way the risks of floods and droughts in many areas. The changes that have affected the water cycle have had substantial impacts on the aquatic ecosystems, increasing and worsening the stressors already affecting these systems. Nutrient loading represents one of those stressors as, with the change in precipitation patterns, it is expected a substantial increase in nutrients entering aquatic ecosystems due to increased erosion events and frequent sewage systems overflows. Because wastewater treatment plants discharge the treated wastewater in aquatic ecosystems, the target nutrient load of these ecosystems affects the level of treatment that a wastewater treatment plant has to perform on the wastewater before being allowed to discharge it. Higher native levels of nutrients in the receiving water bodies force wastewater treatment plants to perform more stringent nutrients removal from the wastewater before dispose of it. In addition to stricter discharge limits, future standards for currently unregulated contaminants are most likely to be introduced. The combination of more stringent limits and new treatment requirements might further increase the already significant energy demand of these facilities.\n\nPopulation growth and climate change are increasing the energy needs of wastewater facilities. Because fossil fuels are still the most diffused source of energy, providing more than half of the global energy needs, the wastewater sector is still highly dependent on fossil fuel-based energy sources. Electricity, for example, is sourced from the electricity grid while gas and diesel are generally used on-site for heating and to run backup generators. High consumption of fossil-fuel energy makes the wastewater sector an indirect contributor to greenhouse gas emissions since fossil fuels are one of the biggest emitters of greenhouse gases, contributing for 65% of the CO emissions globally.\n\nThe pressure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to mitigate climate change and the increasing demand for natural resources is compelling the wastewater sector to develop innovative and more efficient practices to operate. Wastewater contains energy, nutrients and other organic and inorganic resources that can be successfully recovered and used in a broad range of applications. Energy can be recovered as biogas and heat. Biogas is an energy source with a wide range of uses, whereas heat has proven valuable for heating and cooling applications of buildings. Among the nutrients, phosphate can be recovered as struvite for fertilisers, a very important application since phosphate resources are limited and depletable. Composted sewage sludge finds applications in agricultural setting and urban gardens as soil amendment. Besides energy and nutrients, the effluent from the wastewater treatment plants can be reused as quality irrigation water both in agricultural and landscape applications. The reuse of treated water is especially valuable in countries with limited rainfall events or long periods of drought. All these possibilities are changing the vision of wastewater management and the role of wastewater treatment plants. Wastewater treatment plants have the potential not only to treat the wastewater but also to become resource recovery facilities\n\nEffective strategies adopted by wastewater utilities to reduce energy consumption and dependence from fossil fuel-based energy sources include increasing energy efficiency and generating renewable energy on site.\n\nSince the recognition of anthropogenic causes of climate change in the late 1980s and the identification of the energy sector as one of the main contributors, there has been a global effort to investigate the energy consumption of human activities and their indirect contribution to greenhouse gas emissions. In Europe the energy analysis of the wastewater sector was conducted adopting mainly two strategies. Germany (MURL, 1999) and Switzerland (BUWAL, 1994), for example, developed energy management manuals for wastewater treatment plants and reduced their energy consumption by 38% and 50%, respectively. These manuals provided wastewater utilities with energy targets to achieve. On the other hand, in 1999 Austria promoted benchmarking that allowed annual comparison of wastewater treatment plants energy performances. This comparison stimulated a competition among the wastewater treatment plants and the aspiration to improve their efficiency, which led Austria to be one of the first countries in the world to achieve energy neutrality in the wastewater sector. The energy benchmarking process has allowed wastewater treatment plants to identify their most energy-consuming assets and possible inefficiencies, and target them to reduce their energy demand. For example, the inefficiency of the aeration process identified by multiple studies has allowed the development of more energy efficient oxidation units, with a possible energy saving of about 20% to 50% in some cases according to Frijns and an EPA study.\n\nIncreased energy efficiency has allowed wastewater treatment plants to comply with discharge limits reducing the energy demand even up to 50% without affecting treatment performances. However, energy efficiency strategies by themselves are not sufficient to achieve independence from the electricity grid and fossil fuel-based energy sources. To achieve energy neutrality, multiple studies have looked at the feasibility of integrating a variety of renewable energy sources into wastewater treatment plants. The wastewater itself is a carrier of energy and a theoretical calculation, based on the characteristic of the sewage, shows that the composition of the embedded energy is 80% thermal energy and 20% chemical energy. The thermal energy can be recovered as heat while the chemical energy is recovered as biogas. \nRenewable energy generation on site, in addition to increased energy efficiency, has already allowed at least twelve plants worldwide not only to achieve energy neutrality but also to produce more energy than they need. Energy efficiency programs and renewable energy generation have proven successful in diminishing the dependence of the wastewater sector from the energy grid, reducing treatment costs and the environmental impact associated with the grid connection.\n\nThe production and recovery of energy of site offers numerous advantages contributing to operation and management cost reduction of the treatment processes, source of revenue, contribution to waste management and the cost associated with it and increased resilience in case of power shortage.\nOne of the main advantages of energy generation on site is the less stringent dependence from the electricity grid and the cost mitigation associated with it. Depending on the level of renewable energy generation, wastewater treatment plants can disconnect from the main grid when the electricity is the most expensive, usually during peak hours and simply avoid the more elevated price of these periods. When feed in tariffs are in place, wastewater treatment plants can sell electricity to the grid and reduce costs through the cost recovery of the sold energy. In some cases, energy utilities offer demand response programs, in which a wastewater utility is given a financial incentive if it disconnects when requested by the energy utility. This helps the energy utilities to mitigate energy peak demands reducing the risks of blackout, and it is source of revenue for the wastewater utilities.\n\nIn countries where a renewable energy target has been introduced, the production of renewable energy allows the wastewater sector to get a certificate for every unit of power they produce. The certificates are then bought by the electricity retailers, that surrender them every year to comply with the renewable energy regulation.\n\nAnother advantage of renewable energy production, in specific of biogas from sewage sludge, is the contribution to waste management. In fact the recovery of the chemical energy involves the reduction of the sewage sludge volume. A smaller volume of sewage sludge is cheaper to transport and dispose of, decreasing operational costs.\n\nMoreover, a diversify portfolio of energy source can contribute to a more resilient response in case of energy shortage and grid problems.\n\nDespite the numerous advantages offered by on-site renewable energy generation, wastewater utilities are experiencing several difficulties in integrating renewables in their facilities.\nFrom a survey conducted by Beca it emerged that one of the biggest barrier is that energy generation is not core business for wastewater utilities and renewable energy projects come with technical challenges and high initial investment costs. \nMoreover, each plant presents differences and it requires a customised solution for each situation, making it hard to generalise solution for the all sector. There is a lack of guidelines and roadmaps to follow, so each utility has to create specific solutions for their wastewater treatment plants.\n\nThe changing price of electricity connected with the fossil fuel price can affect the return time on the investment while the fast changing regulatory panorama increases the uncertainty of the investment and the financial value of it. This can create an unsustainable situation, where investments in renewables projects can happens only when there are subsidies given by the government.\n\nIn the specific situation of biogas production, poor management can increase the fugitive emission of greenhouse gas emissions, reducing the environmental benefits of renewable energy generation.\n"}
{"id": "2521406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2521406", "title": "Neology", "text": "Neology\n\nNeology is the coining of new words, from the Greek root (Neo-: new, and Logos-: the word). This practice may be compared with other less mentally intensive, although sometimes computationally intensive forms of wordplay such as anagrams and acrostics, as well as fully developed theories or practices of language, such as aphorisms, poetics, and literary essays.\n\nSometimes neology is seen as related to the development of new isms, since a new word can mean a new idea.\n\nNeology is the name given to the natural theology of Germany or the rationalisation of the Christian religion. It was preceded by slightly less radical Wolffism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "460322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=460322", "title": "Nuclear reaction", "text": "Nuclear reaction\n\nIn nuclear physics and nuclear chemistry, a nuclear reaction is semantically considered to be the process in which two nuclei, or else a nucleus of an atom and a subatomic particle (such as a proton, neutron, or high energy electron) from outside the atom, collide to produce one or more nuclides that are different from the nuclide(s) that began the process. Thus, a nuclear reaction must cause a transformation of at least one nuclide to another. If a nucleus interacts with another nucleus or particle and they then separate without changing the nature of any nuclide, the process is simply referred to as a type of nuclear scattering, rather than a nuclear reaction.\n\nIn principle, a reaction can involve more than two particles colliding, but because the probability of three or more nuclei to meet at the same time at the same place is much less than for two nuclei, such an event is exceptionally rare (see triple alpha process for an example very close to a three-body nuclear reaction). \"Nuclear reaction\" is a term implying an induced changing in a nuclide, and thus it does not apply to any type of radioactive decay (which by definition is a spontaneous process).\n\nNatural nuclear reactions occur in the interaction between cosmic rays and matter, and nuclear reactions can be employed artificially to obtain nuclear energy, at an adjustable rate, on demand. Perhaps the most notable nuclear reactions are the nuclear chain reactions in fissionable materials that produce induced nuclear fission, and the various nuclear fusion reactions of light elements that power the energy production of the Sun and stars.\n\nNuclear reactions may be shown in a form similar to chemical equations, for which invariant mass must balance for each side of the equation, and in which transformations of particles must follow certain conservation laws, such as conservation of charge and baryon number (total atomic mass number). An example of this notation follows:\nTo balance the equation above for mass, charge and mass number, the second nucleus to the right must have atomic number 2 and mass number 4; it is therefore also helium-4. The complete equation therefore reads:\nor more simply:\n\nInstead of using the full equations in the style above, in many situations a compact notation is used to describe nuclear reactions. This style of the form A(b,c)D is equivalent to A + b producing c + D. Common light particles are often abbreviated in this shorthand, typically p for proton, n for neutron, d for deuteron, α representing an alpha particle or helium-4, β for beta particle or electron, γ for gamma photon, etc. The reaction above would be written as Li-6(d,α)α.\n\nIn 1919, Ernest Rutherford was able to accomplish transmutation of nitrogen into oxygen at the University of Manchester, using alpha particles directed at nitrogen N + α → O + p.  This was the first observation of an induced nuclear reaction, that is, a reaction in which particles from one decay are used to transform another atomic nucleus. Eventually, in 1932 at Cambridge University, a fully artificial nuclear reaction and nuclear transmutation was achieved by Rutherford's colleagues John Cockcroft and Ernest Walton, who used artificially accelerated protons against lithium-7, to split the nucleus into two alpha particles. The feat was popularly known as \"splitting the atom\", although it was not the modern nuclear fission reaction later discovered in heavy elements, in 1938 by the German scientists Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassmann.\n\nKinetic energy may be released during the course of a reaction (exothermic reaction) or kinetic energy may have to be supplied for the reaction to take place (endothermic reaction). This can be calculated by reference to a table of very accurate particle rest masses, as follows: according to the reference tables, the nucleus has a standard atomic weight of 6.015 atomic mass units (abbreviated u), the deuterium has 2.014 u, and the helium-4 nucleus has 4.0026 u. Thus:\n\nIn a nuclear reaction, the total (relativistic) energy is conserved. The \"missing\" rest mass must therefore reappear as kinetic energy released in the reaction; its source is the nuclear binding energy. Using Einstein's mass-energy equivalence formula \"E\" = \"mc\"², the amount of energy released can be determined. We first need the energy equivalent of one atomic mass unit:\n\nHence, the energy released is 0.0238 × 931 MeV = 22.2 MeV.\n\nExpressed differently: the mass is reduced by 0.3%, corresponding to 0.3% of 90 PJ/kg is 270 TJ/kg.\n\nThis is a large amount of energy for a nuclear reaction; the amount is so high because the binding energy per nucleon of the helium-4 nucleus is unusually high, because the He-4 nucleus is \"doubly magic\". (The He-4 nucleus is unusually stable and tightly bound for the same reason that the helium atom is inert: each pair of protons and neutrons in He-4 occupies a filled 1s nuclear orbital in the same way that the pair of electrons in the helium atom occupy a filled 1s electron orbital). Consequently, alpha particles appear frequently on the right hand side of nuclear reactions.\n\nThe energy released in a nuclear reaction can appear mainly in one of three ways:\n\nWhen the product nucleus is metastable, this is indicated by placing an asterisk (\"*\") next to its atomic number. This energy is eventually released through nuclear decay.\n\nA small amount of energy may also emerge in the form of X-rays. Generally, the product nucleus has a different atomic number, and thus the configuration of its electron shells is wrong. As the electrons rearrange themselves and drop to lower energy levels, internal transition X-rays (X-rays with precisely defined emission lines) may be emitted.\n\nIn writing down the reaction equation, in a way analogous to a chemical equation, one may in addition give the reaction energy on the right side:\n\nFor the particular case discussed above, the reaction energy has already been calculated as Q = 22.2 MeV. Hence:\n\nThe reaction energy (the \"Q-value\") is positive for exothermal reactions and negative for endothermal reactions, opposite to the similar expression in chemistry. On the one hand, it is the difference between the sums of kinetic energies on the final side and on the initial side. But on the other hand, it is also the difference between the nuclear rest masses on the initial side and on the final side (in this way, we have calculated the Q-value above).\n\nIf the reaction equation is balanced, that does not mean that the reaction really occurs. The rate at which reactions occur depends on the particle energy, the particle flux and the reaction cross section. An example of a large repository of reaction rates is the REACLIB database, as maintained by the Joint Institute for Nuclear Astrophysics.\n\nIn the initial collision which begins the reaction, the particles must approach closely enough so that the short range strong force can affect them. As most common nuclear particles are positively charged, this means they must overcome considerable electrostatic repulsion before the reaction can begin. Even if the target nucleus is part of a neutral atom, the other particle must penetrate well beyond the electron cloud and closely approach the nucleus, which is positively charged. Thus, such particles must be first accelerated to high energy, for example by:\n\nAlso, since the force of repulsion is proportional to the product of the two charges, reactions between heavy nuclei are rarer, and require higher initiating energy, than those between a heavy and light nucleus; while reactions between two light nuclei are the most common ones.\n\nNeutrons, on the other hand, have no electric charge to cause repulsion, and are able to initiate a nuclear reaction at very low energies. In fact, at extremely low particle energies (corresponding, say, to thermal equilibrium at room temperature), the neutron's de Broglie wavelength is greatly increased, possibly greatly increasing its capture cross section, at energies close to resonances of the nuclei involved. Thus low-energy neutrons \"may\" be even more reactive than high energy neutrons.\n\nWhile the number of possible nuclear reactions is immense, there are several types which are more common, or otherwise notable. Some examples include:\n\nAn intermediate energy projectile transfers energy or picks up or loses nucleons to the nucleus in a single quick (10 second) event. Energy and momentum transfer are relatively small. These are particularly useful in experimental nuclear physics, because the reaction mechanisms are often simple enough to calculate with sufficient accuracy to probe the structure of the target nucleus.\n\nOnly energy and momentum are transferred.\n\nUsually at moderately low energy, one or more nucleons are transferred between the projectile and target. These are useful in studying outer shell structure of nuclei.\n\nReactions with neutrons are important in nuclear reactors and nuclear weapons. While the best-known neutron reactions are neutron scattering, neutron capture, and nuclear fission, for some light nuclei (especially odd-odd nuclei) the most probable reaction with a thermal neutron is a transfer reaction:\n\nSome reactions are only possible with fast neutrons:\n\nEither a low-energy projectile is absorbed or a higher energy particle transfers energy to the nucleus, leaving it with too much energy to be fully bound together. On a time scale of about 10 seconds, particles, usually neutrons, are \"boiled\" off. That is, it remains together until enough energy happens to be concentrated in one neutron to escape the mutual attraction. Charged particles rarely boil off because of the coulomb barrier. The excited quasi-bound nucleus is called a compound nucleus.\n"}
{"id": "2975044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2975044", "title": "Obsolete Polish units of measurement", "text": "Obsolete Polish units of measurement\n\nThe traditional Polish units of measurement included two uniform yet distinct systems of weights and measures, as well as a number of related systems borrowed from neighbouring states. The first attempt at standardisation came with the introduction of the Old Polish measurement [system], also dubbed the Warsaw system, introduced by a royal decree of December 6, 1764. The system was later replaced by the New Polish measurement [system] introduced on January 1, 1819.\n\nThe traditional Polish systems of weights and measures were later replaced with those of surrounding nations (due to the Partitions of Poland), only to be replaced with metric system by the end of the 19th century (between 1872 and 1876).\n\nThe first recorded weights and measures used in Poland were related to dimensions of human body, hence the most basic measures in use were \"sążeń\" (fathom), \"łokieć\" (ell), \"piędź\" (span), \"stopa\" (foot) and \"skok\" (jump). With time trade relations with the neighbouring nations brought to use additional units, with names often borrowed from German, Arabic or Czech.\n\nFrom Middle Ages until the 18th century, there was no single system of measurement used in all of Poland. Traditional units like \"stopa\" (foot) or \"łokieć\" (ell) were used throughout the country, but their meaning differed from region to region. Most major cities in the area used their own systems of measurement, which were used in the surrounding areas as well. Among the commonly used systems were Austrian, Galician, Danzig, Kraków, Prussian, Russian and Breslau. The matter was further complicated by the fact that Austrian or German systems were hardly uniform either and differed from town to town. Furthermore, the systems tended to evolve over time: in the 13th century the Kraków's ell was equivalent to 64.66 centimetres, a century later it was equivalent to 62.5 cm, then in the 16th century it shrunk to 58.6 cm and finally was equalled to standard \"old Polish ell\" of 59.6 cm only in 1836.\n\nTo add to the confusion, various goods were traditionally measured with different units, often incompatible or difficult to convert. For instance, beer was sold in units named \"achtel\" (0.5 of barrel, that is 62 Kraków gallons of 2.75 litres each). However honey and mead were recorded for tax purposes in units named \"rączka\" (slightly more than 10 Kraków gallons).\n\nAs the weights and measures were important in everyday life of merchants, in 1420 the royal decree allowed each voivode to create and maintain a single system used in his voivodeship. This law was later confirmed by a Sejm act of 1565. Steel or copper rods used as local standard of ell (basic unit of length) were being created in voivode's capital and then dispatched to all nearby towns, where they were further duplicated for everyday use. One bar was to be stored in the town hall for comparison, while additional rods were stored in the gatehouses or toll points to be borrowed by merchants as needed. Damaging or losing a rod was punishable by law.\n\nOutside of this set of systems was the measurement of time. As clock towers only started to appear in late Middle Ages, and their usability was limited to within a small radius, some basic substitutes for modern minutes and hours were developed, based on Christian prayers. The \"pacierz\" (or \"paternoster\") was a non-standard unit of time comprising some 25 seconds, that is enough time to recite the Lord's Prayer. Similarly, \"zdrowaśka\" (from \"Zdrowaś Mario\", the first words of the Hail Mary) was used, as was the Rosary (\"różaniec\") that is the time needed to recite Hail Mary 50 times (roughly 16 minutes). Those units were never strictly defined, but were used in rural areas of Poland as late as the 20th century.\n\nWhile this system introduced some level of standardisation throughout the country, the systems used in various voivodeships still differed from one another. To counter this problem the Kraków ell and Poznań ell were made equal in 1507. The same applied to ells used in Lwów and Lublin, which however were different from those in Kraków and Poznań. In 1532 the Płock ell was aligned with the Kraków ell, which in 1565 was declared an official ell to be used in all of the Crown of Poland. The system used by Warsaw was adopted in Płock and all of Masovia in 1569. In 1613 additional systems were created for Vilnius and Kaunas. The standardisation of other units of measurement also made some progress since the 15th century, but at a different pace. In the end this created even more confusion, as two towns could use the same units of length, but two different units of weight, although using the same terms.\n\nAs until then not only different units varied from town to town but also their relation to one another, in 1764 a major overhaul of the measurement system was prepared. By a royal decree of December 6, 1764 all units of measurement were to be converted to a new system, common to all of Poland and its dependencies. The system relied on previously used units, but introduced a common, unified system of relations between them. It had no official name and it was not until the 19th century when it started to be called the Old Polish system (\"miary staropolskie\", or \"Old-Polish measures\"), in contrast to the \"new\" system introduced then.\n\nThe basic unit of length - the ell or łokieć in Polish - was set to 0.5955 metres. For trade and everyday use it was further subdivided into the foot (\"stopa\", ≈29.78 centimetres); \"sztych\" (≈19.86cm); quarter (\"ćwierć\", ≈14.89cm); palm (\"dłoń\", ≈7.44cm); and inch (\"cal\", ≈2.48 centimetres), or gathered into the fathom (\"sążeń\", 3 ells or 1.787 metres in length), such that:1 ell = 2 feet = 3 sztychs = 4 quarters = 8 palms = 24 inches ( = ⅓ of a fathom ).A different system of units, although complementary and interchangeable, was used in measuring lengths for agrarian purposes. The basic unit was a step (\"krok\"), equalling 3.75 of standard ell, or 2.2333 metres. Two steps made a rod (\"pręt\", 4.4665 metres), 2 rods made a stick (\"laska\"), and five sticks were equal to a cable (\"sznur\" of 44.665 metres). Finally 3 cables made up a furlong (\"staje\") of roughly 134 metres.\n\nIn measuring the distance between cities, the basic unit was \"staje\", although it was different from the \"staje\" mentioned before and had the length of roughly 893 metres. Eight \"staje\" made up a Polish mile of 7144 metres.\n\nThe weights were based on the Polish pound (\"funt\" of 0.4052 kg) composed of two \"grzywnas\", each in turn comprising 16 lots (\"łut\" of 0.0127 kg). For heavier goods the basic units were a stone (\"kamień\", 32 pounds or 12.976 kg) and Hundredweight (\"cetnar\", five stones or 64.80 kg).\n\nThere were two sets of units of volume: one for fluids and the other for dry goods. Both used the gallon (\"garniec\") of 3.7689 litres as the basic unit. This was subdivided into 4 quarts (') of 0.9422 L or 16 '. For dry goods four gallons comprised a measure ('), 2 measures comprised a quarter ('), 4 quarters comprised a bushel (') of 120.6 L, and 30 bushels comprised a last (') of 3618 L. For fluids, 5 gallons comprised a \"konew\" of 18.8445 L and 14.4 \"konew\" made up a barrel of 271.36 L.\n\nThough the traditional systems were officially abandoned in the 19th century, traces of their use, especially in rural areas, were found by ethnographers as late as 1969.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2028396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2028396", "title": "Pancritical rationalism", "text": "Pancritical rationalism\n\nPancritical rationalism (literally \"criticism of all things\", from pan-, \"all\", also known as PCR), also called comprehensively critical rationalism (CCR), is a development of critical rationalism and panrationalism originated by William Warren Bartley in his book \"The Retreat to Commitment\". PCR attempts to work around the problem of ultimate commitment or infinite regress by decoupling criticism and justification. A pancritical rationalist holds all positions open to criticism, including PCR itself. Such a position in principle never resorts to appeal to authority for justification of stances, since all authorities are held to be intrinsically fallible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17272739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17272739", "title": "Participatory modeling", "text": "Participatory modeling\n\nParticipatory modeling is a purposeful learning process for action that engages the implicit and explicit knowledge of stakeholders to create formalized and shared representation(s) of reality. In this process, the participants co-formulate the problem and use modeling practices to aid in the description, solution, and decision-making actions of the group. Participatory modeling is often used in environmental and resource management contexts. It can be described as engaging non-scientists in the scientific process. The participants structure the problem, describe the system, create a computer model of the system, use the model to test policy interventions, and propose one or more solutions. Participatory modeling is often used in natural resources management, such as forests or water.\n\nThere are numerous benefits from this type of modeling, including a high degree of ownership and motivation towards change for the people involved in the modeling process. There are two approaches which provide highly different goals for the modeling; continuous modeling and conference modeling.\n\nThe focus here is on the end-user being the active modeler. It can be incorporated into an adaptable, context-sensitive, \"intelligent\" system, which is suited to the individual. This combination is often referred to as \"model generated workplace\" or \"model generated user environment\". The basic concept is that the end-user potentially has the greatest domain knowledge and thus the organization as a whole benefits by obtaining and externalize this knowledge.\n\nConference modeling is an approach where the goal often is of a more social kind, such as motivation, and change management. The idea is to involve a group of diversified people from the domain in question. Then the modeling process is developed in group participation during a fixed period of time.\n\n"}
{"id": "51013265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51013265", "title": "Patient-initiated violence", "text": "Patient-initiated violence\n\nPatient-initiated violence is a specific form of workplace violence that affects healthcare workers that is the result of verbal, physical, or emotional abuse from a patient or family members of whom they have assumed care. Nurses represent the highest percentage of affected workers; however, other roles include physicians, therapists, technicians, home care workers, and social workers. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration used 2013 Bureau of Labor Statistics and reported that healthcare workplace violence requiring days absent from work from patients represented 80% of cases. In 2014, a survey by the American Nurses Association of 3,765 21% of nurses and nursing students reported physical abuse and over 50% reported verbal abuse within a 12-month period. Causes for patient outbursts vary, including psychiatric diagnosis, under the influence of drugs or alcohol, or subject to a long wait time. Certain areas are more at risk for this kind of violence including healthcare workers in psychiatric settings, emergency or critical care, or long term care and dementia units.\n\nThe American College of Emergency Physicians found that greater than 75% of emergency physicians were the victim of one or more violent incidents in the workplace, noting that the majority was by patients or their families. Causes for the increased presence of violence, especially in urban settings, are related to gang activity, lengthened waiting periods to see a doctor, a failure of community medical resources, and unavailable acute psychiatric treatment. In 2011 the Emergency Nurses Association studies the occurrence of physical violence at 54.4% and verbal violence at 42.5% among emergency room nurses. Within this study, 55.7% perpetrators of physical violence were under the influence of alcohol. 46.8% were under the influence of illegal or prescription drugs, and 45.2% were being treated for psychiatric reasons. A majority of the violent behavior that occurred was during the triage process at 40.2%.\n\nWorkers in departments that specialize in mental health are particularly at risk for patient abuse due to the psychiatric disease states, high rates of substance abuse, and previous violent patient behavior. A study of Canadian psychiatric nurses noted that social stigma of psychiatric disorders plays a significant role in how nurses perceive violence. Caregivers were uncomfortable with the notion that patient violence is part of the job but also that it is unfair to believe that those with mental illness should be seen as more violent in nature. Osha reported that violent injuries in psychiatric aids was 10 times higher than any other healthcare worker at 590 injuries per 10,000 full-time employees.\n\nUnderreporting of patient initiated violence is common with professionals claiming that assault is a part of the job. A report from the National Center for the Analysis of Violent Crime dedicates underreporting is likely due to a fear of retaliation, or belief that it will not lead to any change. There is also a commonly held belief that violence is a part of the job. The Massachusetts Nurses Association followed up on this common belief through a survey of three New England hospitals, finding that only 39% of participants reported all incidences of violence. The same report found that 70% of those who reported an incident found that management was supportive, however a majority noted that nothing was done to solve the problem. A study of Canadian psychiatric nurses reported that not only was violence a part of the job, but its occurrence no longer warranted a reporting. The same report noted that underreporting drastically affects the ability of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to track these occurrences. Many qualitative studies done on nurses suggest that there is frequent discouragement by hospital officials and legal officers to not press charges against abusive patients or their families related to an understanding that violence is a part of the job.\n\nThe effects of patient initiated violence has been found correlate to lasting symptoms of post traumatic stress disorder, acute stress disorder, and high rates of burnout. Nurses who experience a lack of support from public officials after the event reported feelings of anxiety and frustration. OSHA sampled one hospital who paid for medical treatment of 30 staff members subject to patient initiated violence over a one-year period costing $94,146. It was also estimated that the costs of separation, recruitment, hiring, and training of new staff to be anywhere from 25,000 to 103,000.\n\nA study in Orebro Reginal Hospital in Sweden suggested a link between patient initiated violence, burnout, and decreased care outcomes. It was reported that the highest indicator of care quality outcomes is a positive or negative association with an individuals work environment.\n\nIn November 2014 Charles Logan, a 68-year-old patient at St John's Hospital in Mapplewood Minnesota attacked nurses using a bar from his stretcher.\n\nSolutions to this issues range dependent on facility and location. A common suggestions from nursing staff is for additional trainings specifically on the de-escalation of high risk situations and health professional legal rights 55% of participants of workers in New England Hospitals stated they were aware of their legal rights relating to workplace violence. The national institute of occupational safety and health (NOSHA) created a free online training module that went live in 2013. The Veterans Health Administration has reduced occurrences of assaults by flagging high risk based on previous documentation of attacks on caregivers. The American Nurses Association has modeled a state bill for a “Violence Prevention in Health Care Facilities Act” that would call for the creation of violence prevention committees, annual violence prevention training, and sufficient record keeping of violence acts.\n\n"}
{"id": "842059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=842059", "title": "Political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union", "text": "Political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union\n\nThere was systematic political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union, based on the interpretation of political opposition or dissent as a psychiatric problem. It was called \"psychopathological mechanisms\" of dissent.\n\nDuring the leadership of General Secretary Leonid Brezhnev, psychiatry was used to disable and remove from society political opponents (\"dissidents\") who openly expressed beliefs that contradicted the official dogma. The term \"philosophical intoxication\", for instance, was widely applied to the mental disorders diagnosed when people disagreed with the country's Communist leaders and, by referring to the writings of the Founding Fathers of Marxism–Leninism—Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels, and Vladimir Lenin—made them the target of criticism.\n\nArticle 58-10 of the Stalin-era Criminal Code, \"Anti-Soviet agitation\", was to a considerable degree preserved in the new 1958 RSFSR Criminal Code as Article 70 \"Anti-Soviet agitation and propaganda\". In 1967, a weaker law, Article 190-1 \"Dissemination of fabrications known to be false, which defame the Soviet political and social system\", was added to the RSFSR Criminal Code. These laws were frequently applied in conjunction with the system of diagnosis for mental illness, developed by Academician Andrei Snezhnevsky. Together they established a framework within which non-standard beliefs could easily be defined as a criminal offence and the basis, subsequently, for a psychiatric diagnosis.\n\nThe \"anti-Soviet\" political behavior of some individuals — being outspoken in their opposition to the authorities, demonstrating for reform, and writing critical books — were defined simultaneously as criminal acts (e.g., a violation of Articles 70 or 190-1), symptoms of mental illness (e.g., \"delusion of reformism\"), and susceptible to a ready-made diagnosis (e.g., \"sluggish schizophrenia\"). Within the boundaries of the diagnostic category, the symptoms of pessimism, poor social adaptation and conflict with authorities were themselves sufficient for a formal diagnosis of \"sluggish schizophrenia.\"\n\nThe psychiatric incarceration of certain individuals was prompted by their attempts to emigrate, to distribute or possess prohibited documents or books, to participate in civil rights protests and demonstrations, and become involved in forbidden religious activities. The religious beliefs of prisoners, including those of well-educated former atheists who had become adherents of a religious faith, was considered to be a form of mental illness that required treatment. The KGB routinely sent dissenters to psychiatrists for diagnosing to avoid embarrassing publiс trials and to discredit dissidence as the product of ill minds. Highly classified government documents which have become available after the dissolution of the Soviet Union confirm that the authorities consciously used psychiatry as a tool to suppress dissent.\n\nAccording to the \"Commentary\" to the post-Soviet \"Russian Federation Law on Psychiatric Care\", individuals forced to undergo treatment in Soviet psychiatric medical institutions were entitled to rehabilitation in accordance with the established procedure and could claim compensation. The Russian Federation acknowledged that before 1991 psychiatry had been used for political purposes and took responsibility for the victims of \"political psychiatry.\"\n\nThe political abuse of psychiatry in Russia has continued, nevertheless, since the fall of the Soviet Union and human rights activists may still face the threat of a psychiatric diagnosis for their legitimate civic and political activities.\n\nPolitical abuse of psychiatry is the misuse of psychiatric diagnosis, detention and treatment for the purposes of obstructing the fundamental human rights of certain groups and individuals in a society. It entails the exculpation and committal of citizens to psychiatric facilities based upon political rather than mental health-based criteria. Many authors, including psychiatrists, also use the terms \"Soviet political psychiatry\" or \"punitive psychiatry\" to refer to this phenomenon.\n\nIn his book \"Punitive Medicine\" (1979) Alexander Podrabinek defined the term \"punitive medicine\", which is identified with \"punitive psychiatry,\" as \"a tool in the struggle against dissidents who cannot be punished by legal means.\" Punitive psychiatry is neither a discrete subject nor a psychiatric specialty but, rather, it is an emergency arising within many applied sciences in totalitarian countries where members of a profession may feel themselves compelled to serve the diktats of power. Psychiatric confinement of sane people is uniformly considered a particularly pernicious form of repression and Soviet punitive psychiatry was one of the key weapons of both illegal and legal repression.\n\nAs Vladimir Bukovsky and Semyon Gluzman wrote in their joint \"A Manual on Psychiatry for Dissenters\", \"the Soviet use of psychiatry as a punitive means is based upon the deliberate interpretation of dissent... as a psychiatric problem.\"\n\nPsychiatry possesses an inherent capacity for abuse that is greater than in other areas of medicine. The diagnosis of mental disease can give the state license to detain persons against their will and insist upon therapy both in the interest of the detainee and in the broader interests of society. In addition, receiving a psychiatric diagnosis can in itself be regarded as oppressive. In a monolithic state, psychiatry can be used to bypass standard legal procedures for establishing guilt or innocence and allow political incarceration without the ordinary odium attaching to such political trials.\n\nIn the period from the 1960-s to 1986, the abuse of psychiatry for political purposes was reported to have been systematic in the Soviet Union and episodic in other Eastern European countries such as Romania, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia. The practice of incarceration of political dissidents in mental hospitals in Eastern Europe and the former USSR damaged the credibility of psychiatric practice in these states and entailed strong condemnation from the international community. Psychiatrists have been involved in human rights abuses in states across the world when the definitions of mental disease were expanded to include political disobedience. As scholars have long argued, governmental and medical institutions have at times classified threats to authority during periods of political disturbance and instability as a form of mental disease. In many countries, political prisoners are still sometimes confined and abused in mental institutions.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, dissidents were often confined in the so-called \"psikhushka\", or psychiatric wards. \"Psikhushka\" is the Russian ironic diminutive for \"mental hospital\". One of the first \"psikhushkas\" was the Psychiatric Prison Hospital in the city of Kazan. In 1939, it was transferred to the control of the NKVD (the secret police and precursor of the KGB) on the orders of Lavrentiy Beria, the head of the NKVD. International human rights defenders such as Walter Reich have long recorded the methods by which Soviet psychiatrists in \"Psikhushka\" hospitals diagnosed schizophrenia in political dissenters. Western scholars examined no aspect of Soviet psychiatry as thoroughly as its involvement in the social control of political dissenters.\n\nAs early as 1948, the Soviet secret service took an interest in this area of medicine. One of those with overall responsibility for the Soviet secret police, pre-war Procurator General and State Prosecutor, the deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Andrey Vyshinsky, was the first to order the use of psychiatry as a tool of repression. Russian psychiatrist Pyotr Gannushkin also believed that in a class society, especially during the most severe class struggle, psychiatry was incapable of not being repressive. A system of political abuse of psychiatry was developed at the end of Joseph Stalin's regime.\n\nPunitive psychiatry was not simply an inheritance from the Stalin era, however, according to Alexander Etkind. The GULag, or Chief Administration for Corrective Labor Camps, was an effective instrument of political repression. There was no compelling requirement to develop an alternative and more expensive psychiatric substitute. The abuse of psychiatry was a natural product of the later Soviet era. From the mid-1970s to the 1990s, the structure of the USSR mental health service conformed to the double standard in society, being represented by two distinct systems which co-existed peacefully for the most part, despite periodic conflicts between them:\nThe hundreds of hospitals in the provinces combined elements of both systems.\n\nIf someone was mentally ill then, he was sent to a psychiatric hospital and confined there until his dying day. If his mental health was uncertain but he was not constantly unwell, he and his \"kharakteristika\" [testimonial from employers, the Party and other Soviet institutions] were sent to a labour camp or to be shot. When allusions to socialist legality started to be made, it was decided to prosecute such people. Soon it became apparent that putting people who gave anti-Soviet speeches on trial only made matters worse for the regime. Such individuals were no longer tried in court. Instead they were given a psychiatric examination and declared insane.\n\nIn the 1950s, the psychiatrists of the Soviet Union turned themselves into the medical arm of the Gulag State. A precursor of later abuses in psychiatry in the Soviet Union, the \"Joint Session\" of the USSR Academy of Medical Sciences and the Board of the All-Union Neurological and Psychiatric Association took place from 10 to 15 October 1951. The event was dedicated, supposedly, to the great Russian physiologist Ivan Pavlov and alleged that several of the USSR's leading neuroscientists and psychiatrists of the time (among them Grunya Sukhareva, Vasily Gilyarovsky, Raisa Golant, Aleksandr Shmaryan, and Mikhail Gurevich) were guilty of practicing \"anti-Pavlovian, anti-Marxist, idealistic [and] reactionary\" science, and this was damaging to Soviet psychiatry.\n\nDuring the Joint Session, these eminent psychiatrists, motivated by fear, had to publicly admit that their scientific positions were erroneous and they also had to promise to conform to \"Pavlovian\" doctrines. These public declarations of obedience proved insufficient. In the closing speech Snezhnevsky, the lead author of the Session's policy report, stated that the accused psychiatrists \"have not disarmed themselves and continue to remain in the old anti-Pavlovian positions\", thereby causing \"grave damage to the Soviet psychiatric research and practice\". The vice president of the USSR Academy of Medical Sciences accused them of \"diligently worshipping the dirty source of American pseudo-science\". Those who articulated these accusations at the Joint Session — among them Irina Strelchuk, Vasily Banshchikov, Oleg Kerbikov, and Snezhnevsky — were distinguished by their careerist ambition and fear for their own positions. Not surprisingly, many of them were promoted and appointed to leadership posts shortly after the session.\n\nThe Joint Session also had a negative impact on several leading Soviet academic neuroscientists, such as Pyotr Anokhin, Aleksey Speransky, Lina Stern, Ivan Beritashvili, and Leon Orbeli. They were labeled as anti-Pavlovians, anti-materialists and reactionaries and subsequently they were dismissed from their positions. In addition to losing their laboratories some of these scientists were subjected to torture in prison. The Moscow, Leningrad, Ukrainian, Georgian, and Armenian schools of neuroscience and neurophysiology were damaged for a period due to this loss of personnel. The Joint Session ravaged productive research in neurosciences and psychiatry for years to come. Pseudo-science took control.\n\nFollowing a previous joint session of the USSR Academy of Sciences and the USSR Academy of Medical Sciences (28 June–4 July 1950) and the 10-15 October 1951 joint session of the Presidium of the Academy of Medical Sciences and the Board of the All-Union Society of Neuropathologists and Psychiatrists, Snezhnevky's schoolthe was given the leading role. The 1950 decision to give monopoly over psychiatry to the Pavlovian school of Snezhnevsky was one of the crucial factors in the rise of political psychiatry. The Soviet doctors, under the incentive of Snezhnevsky, devised a \"Pavlovian theory of schizophrenia\" and increasingly applied this diagnostic category to political dissidents.\n\n\"The incarceration of free thinking healthy people in madhouses is spiritual murder, it is a variation of the gas chamber, even more cruel; the torture of the people being killed is more malicious and more prolonged. Like the gas chambers, these crimes will never be forgotten and those involved in them will be condemned for all time during their life and after their death.\" \n\nPsychiatric diagnoses such as the diagnosis of \"sluggish schizophrenia\" in political dissidents in the USSR were used for political purposes. It was the diagnosis of \"sluggish schizophrenia\" that was most prominently used in cases of dissidents. Sluggish schizophrenia as one of the new diagnostic categories was created to facilitate the stifling of dissidents and was a root of self-deception among psychiatrists to placate their consciences when the doctors acted as a tool of oppression in the name of a political system. According to the Global Initiative on Psychiatry chief executive Robert van Voren, the political abuse of psychiatry in the USSR arose from the conception that people who opposed the Soviet regime were mentally sick since there was no other logical rationale why one would oppose the sociopolitical system considered the best in the world. The diagnosis \"sluggish schizophrenia,\" a longstanding concept further developed by the Moscow School of Psychiatry and particularly by its chief Snezhnevsky, furnished a very handy framework for explaining this behavior.\n\nThe weight of scholarly opinion holds that the psychiatrists who played the primary role in the development of this diagnostic concept were following directives from the Communist Party and the Soviet secret service, or KGB, and were well aware of the political uses to which it would be put. Nevertheless, for many Soviet psychiatrists \"sluggish schizophrenia\" appeared to be a logical explanation to apply to the behavior of critics of the regime who, in their opposition, seemed willing to jeopardize their happiness, family, and career for a reformist conviction or ideal that was so apparently divergent from the prevailing social and political orthodoxy.\n\nSnezhnevsky, the most prominent theorist of Soviet psychiatry and director of the Institute of Psychiatry of the USSR Academy of Medical Sciences, developed a novel classification of mental disorders postulating an original set of diagnostic criteria. A carefully crafted description of sluggish schizophrenia established that psychotic symptoms were non-essential for the diagnosis, but symptoms of psychopathy, hypochondria, depersonalization or anxiety were central to it. Symptoms referred to as part of the \"negative axis\" included pessimism, poor social adaptation, and conflict with authorities, and were themselves sufficient for a formal diagnosis of \"sluggish schizophrenia with scanty symptoms.\" According to Snezhnevsky, patients with sluggish schizophrenia could present as quasi sane yet manifest minimal but clinically relevant personality changes which could remain unnoticed to the untrained eye. Thereby patients with non-psychotic mental disorders, or even persons who were not mentally sick, could be easily labelled with the diagnosis of sluggish schizophrenia. Along with paranoia, sluggish schizophrenia was the diagnosis most frequently used for the psychiatric incarceration of dissenters. As per the theories of Snezhnevsky and his colleagues, schizophrenia was much more prevalent than previously considered since the illness could be presented with comparatively slight symptoms and only progress afterwards. As a consequence, schizophrenia was diagnosed much more often in Moscow than in cities of other countries, as \"the World Health Organization Pilot Study on Schizophrenia\" reported in 1973. The city with the highest prevalence of schizophrenia in the world was Moscow. In particular, the scope was widened by sluggish schizophrenia because according to Snezhnevsky and his colleagues, patients with this diagnosis were capable of functioning almost normally in the social sense. Their symptoms could be like those of a neurosis or could assume a paranoid character. The patients with paranoid symptoms retained some insight into their condition but overestimated their own significance and could manifest grandiose ideas of reforming society. Thereby, sluggish schizophrenia could have such symptoms as \"reform delusions,\" \"perseverance,\" and \"struggle for the truth.\" As Viktor Styazhkin reported, Snezhnevsky diagnosed a reformation delusion for every case when a patient \"develops a new principle of human knowledge, drafts an academy of human happiness, and many other projects for the benefit of mankind.\"\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, theories, which contained ideas about reforming society and struggling for truth, and religious convictions were not referred to delusional paranoid disorders in practically all foreign classifications, but Soviet psychiatry, proceeding from ideological conceptions, referred critique of the political system and proposals to reform this system to the delusional construct. Diagnostic approaches of conception of sluggish schizophrenia and paranoiac states with delusion of reformism were used only in the Soviet Union and several Eastern European countries.\n\nOn the covert orders of the KGB, thousands of social and political reformers—Soviet \"dissidents\"—were incarcerated in mental hospitals after being labelled with diagnoses of \"sluggish schizophrenia\", a disease fabricated by Snezhnevsky and \"Moscow school\" of psychiatry. American psychiatrist Alan A. Stone stated that Western criticism of Soviet psychiatry aimed at Snezhnevsky personally, because he was essentially responsible for the Soviet concept of schizophrenia with a \"sluggish type\" manifestation by \"reformerism\" including other symptoms. One can readily apply this diagnostic scheme to dissenters. Snezhnevsky was long attacked in the West as an exemplar of psychiatric abuse in the USSR. The leading critics implied that Snezhnevsky had designed the Soviet model of schizophrenia and this diagnosis to make political dissent into a mental disease. He was charged with cynically developing a system of diagnosis which could be bent for political purposes, and he himself diagnosed or was involved in a series of famous dissident cases, and, in dozens of cases, he personally signed a commission decision on legal insanity of mentally healthy dissidents including Vladimir Bukovsky, Natalya Gorbanevskaya, Leonid Plyushch, , and Pyotr Grigorenko.\n\nThe campaign to declare political opponents mentally sick and to commit dissenters to mental hospitals began in the late 1950s and early 1960s. As Vladimir Bukovsky commented on the emergence of the political abuse of psychiatry, Nikita Khrushchev reckoned that it was impossible for people in a socialist society to have an anti-socialist consciousness. Whenever manifestations of dissidence could not be justified as a provocation of world imperialism or a legacy of the past, they were self-evidently the product of mental disease. In a speech published in the \"Pravda\" daily newspaper on 24 May 1959, Khrushchev said:\n\nThe now available evidence supports the conclusion that the system of political abuse of psychiatry was carefully designed by the KGB to rid the USSR of undesirable elements. According to several available documents and a message by a former general of the Fifth (dissident) Directorate of the Ukrainian KGB to Robert van Voren, political abuse of psychiatry as a systematic method of repression was developed by Yuri Andropov along with a selected group of associates.\n\nAndropov was in charge of the wide-ranging deployment of psychiatric repression from the moment he was appointed to head the KGB. He became KGB Chairman on 18 May 1967. On 3 July 1967, he made a proposal to establish a Fifth Directorate (ideological counterintelligence) within the KGB to deal with internal political opposition to the Soviet regime. The Directorate was set up at the end of July and took charge of KGB files on all Soviet dissidents, including Andrei Sakharov and Alexander Solzhenitsyn. In 1968, KGB Chairman Andropov issued a departmental order \"On the tasks of State security agencies in combating the ideological sabotage by the adversary\", calling for the KGB to struggle against dissidents and their imperialist masters. His aim was \"the destruction of dissent in all its forms\" and he insisted that the positions of the capitalist countries on human rights, and their criticisms of the Soviet Union and its own politics of human rights from these positions, was just one part of a wide-ranging imperialist plot to undermine the Soviet state's foundation. Similar ideas can be found in the 1983 book \"Speeches and Writings\" by Andropov published when he had become General Secretary of the CPSU:\nOn 29 April 1969, Andropov submitted an elaborate plan to the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union to set up a network of mental hospitals that would defend the \"Soviet Government and the socialist order\" from dissenters. To persuade his fellow Politburo members of the risk posed by the mentally ill, Andropov circulated a report from the Krasnodar Region. A secret resolution of the USSR Council of Ministers was adopted. Andropov's proposal to use psychiatry for struggle against dissenters was adopted and implemented.\n\nIn 1929, the USSR had 70 psychiatric hospitals and 21,103 psychiatric beds. By 1935, this had increased to 102 psychiatric hospitals and 33,772 psychiatric beds, and by 1955 there were 200 psychiatric hospitals and 116,000 psychiatric beds in the Soviet Union. The Soviet authorities built psychiatric hospitals at a rapid pace and increased the quantity of beds for patients with nervous and mental illnesses: between 1962 and 1974, the number of beds for psychiatric patients increased from 222,600 to 390,000. Such an expansion in the number of psychiatric beds was expected to continue in the years up to 1980. Throughout this period the dominant trend in Soviet psychiatry ran counter to the vigorous attempts in Western countries to treat as many as possible as out-patients rather than in-patients.\n\nOn 15 May 1969, a Soviet Government decree (No. 345–209) was issued \"On measures for preventing dangerous behavior (acts) on the part of mentally ill persons.\" This decree confirmed the practice of having undesirables hauled into detention by psychiatrists. Soviet psychiatrists were told whom they should examine and were assured that they might detain these individuals with the help of the police or entrap them into coming to the hospital. The psychiatrists thereby doubled as interrogators and as arresting officers. Doctors fabricated a diagnosis requiring detention and no court decision was required for subjecting the individual to indefinite confinement in a psychiatric institution.\n\nBy the end of the 1950s, confinement to a psychiatric institution had become the most commonly used method of punishing leaders of the political opposition. In the 1960s and 1970s, the trials of dissenters and their referral for \"treatment\" to the Special Psychiatric Hospitals under MVD control and oversight came out into the open, and the world learned of a wave of \"psychiatric terror\" which was flatly denied by those in charge of the Serbsky Institute. The bulk of psychiatric repression spans the period from the late 1960s to the early 1980s. As CPSU General Secretary, from November 1982 to February 1984, Yury Andropov demonstrated little patience with domestic dissafection and continued the Brezhnev Era policy of confining dissenters in mental hospitals.\n\nPolitical dissidents were usually charged under Articles 70 (agitation and propaganda against the Soviet state) and 190-1 (dissemination of false fabrications defaming the Soviet state and social system) of the RSFSR Criminal Code. Forensic psychiatrists were asked to examine offenders whose mental state was considered abnormal by the investigating officers.\n\nIn almost every case, dissidents were examined at the Serbsky Central Research Institute for Forensic Psychiatry in Moscow, where persons being prosecuted in court for committing political crimes were subjected to a forensic-psychiatric expert evaluation. Once certified, the accused and convicted were sent for involuntary treatment to the Special Psychiatric Hospitals controlled by the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD) of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic.\n\nThe accused had no right of appeal. The right was given to their relatives or other interested persons but they were not allowed to nominate psychiatrists to take part in the evaluation, because all psychiatrists were considered fully independent and equally credible before the law.\n\nAccording to dissident poet Naum Korzhavin, the atmosphere at the Serbsky Institute in Moscow altered almost overnight when Daniil Lunts took over as head of the Fourth Department (otherwise known as the Political Department). Previously, psychiatric departments were regarded as a 'refuge' against being dispatched to the Gulag. Now that policy altered. The first reports of dissenters being hospitalized on non-medical grounds date from the early 1960s, not long after Georgy Morozov was appointed director of the Serbsky Institute. Both Morozov and Lunts were personally involved in numerous well-known cases and were notorious abusers of psychiatry for political purposes. Most prisoners, in Viktor Nekipelov's words, characterized Daniil Lunts as \"no better than the criminal doctors who performed inhuman experiments on the prisoners in Nazi concentration camps.\" Indeed, experimentation took place on patients, including sleep deprivation and exposure to electromagnetic radiation for the inducement of auditory hallucinations.\n\nA well-documented practice was the use of psychiatric hospitals as temporary prisons during the two or three weeks around the 7 November (October Revolution) Day and May Day celebrations, to isolate \"socially dangerous\" persons who otherwise might protest in public or manifest other deviant behavior.\n\nIn the 1960s, a vigorous movement grew up protesting against abuse of psychiatry in the USSR. Political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union was denounced in the course of the Congresses of the World Psychiatric Association in Mexico City (1971), Hawaii (1977), Vienna (1983) and Athens (1989). The campaign to terminate political abuse of psychiatry in the USSR was a key episode in the Cold War, inflicting irretrievable damage on the prestige of medicine in the Soviet Union.\n\nUpon analysis of over 200 well-authenticated cases covering the period 1962–1976, Sidney Bloch and Peter Reddaway developed a classification of the victims of Soviet psychiatric abuse. They were classified as:\nThe advocates of human rights and democratization, according to Bloch and Reddaway, made up about half the dissidents repressed by means of psychiatry. Nationalists made up about one-tenth of the dissident population dealt with psychiatrically. Would-be emigrants constituted about one-fifth of dissidents victimized by means of psychiatry. People detained only because of their religious activity made up about fifteen per cent of dissident-patients. Citizens inconvenient to the authorities because of their \"obdurate\" complaints about bureaucratic excesses and abuses accounted for about five per cent of dissidents subject to psychiatric abuse.\n\nIn 1985, Peter Reddaway and Sidney Bloch provided documented data on some five hundred cases in their book \"Soviet Psychiatric Abuse\".\n\nOn basis of the available data and materials accumulated in the archives of the International Association on the Political Use of Psychiatry, one can confidently conclude that thousands of dissenters were hospitalized for political reasons. From 1994 to 1995, an investigative commission of Moscow psychiatrists explored the records of five prison psychiatric hospitals in Russia and discovered about two thousand cases of political abuse of psychiatry in these hospitals alone. In 2004, Anatoly Prokopenko said he was surprised at the facts obtained by him from the official classified top secret documents by the Central Committee of the CPSU, by the KGB, and MVD. According to his calculations based on what he found in the documents, about 15,000 people were confined for political crimes in the psychiatric prison hospitals under the control of the MVD. In 2005, referring to the Archives of the CPSU Central Committee and the records of the three Special Psychiatrial Hospitals — Sychyovskaya, Leningrad and Chernyakhovsk hospitals — to which human rights activists gained access in 1991, Prokopenko concluded that psychiatry had been used as punitive measure against about 20,000 people for purely political reasons. This was only a small part of the total picture, Prokopenko said. The data on the total number of people who had been held in all sixteen prison hospitals and in the 1,500 \"open\" psychiatric hospitals remains unknown because parts of the archives of the prison psychiatric hospitals and hospitals in general are classified and inaccessible. The figure of fifteen or twenty thousand political prisoners in psychiatric hospitals run by the Soviet Ministry of Internal Affairs was first put forward by Prokopenko in the 1997 book \"Mad Psychiatry\" (\"Безумная психиатрия\"), which was republished in 2005.\n\nAn indication of the extent of the political abuse of psychiatry in the USSR is provided by Semyon Gluzman's calculation that the percentage of \"the mentally ill\" among those accused of so-called anti-Soviet activities proved many times higher than among criminal offenders. The attention paid to political prisoners by Soviet psychiatrists was more than 40 times greater than their attention to ordinary criminal offenders. This derives from the following comparison: 1–2 % of all the forensic psychiatric examinations carried out by the Serbsky Institute targeted those accused of anti-Soviet activities; convicted dissidents in penal institutions made up 0.05% of the total number of convicts; 1–2 % is 40 times greater than 0.05%.\n\nAccording to Viktor Luneyev, the struggle against dissent operated on many more layers than those registered in court sentences. We do not know how many the secret services kept under surveillance, held criminally liable, arrested, sent to psychiatric hospitals, or who were sacked from their jobs, and restricted in all kinds of other ways in the exercise of their rights. No objective assessment of the total number of repressed persons is possible without fundamental analysis of archival documents. The difficulty is that the required data are very diverse and are not to be found in a single archive. They are scattered between the State Archive of the Russian Federation, the archive of the Russian Federation State Statistical Committee (Goskomstat), the archives of the RF Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD of Russia), the FSB of Russia, the RF General Prosecutor's Office, and the Russian Military and Historical Archive. Further documents are held in the archives of 83 constituent entities of the Russian Federation, in urban and regional archives, as well as in the archives of the former Soviet Republics, now the 11 independent countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States or the three Baltic States (Baltics).\n\nAccording to Russian psychiatrist Emmanuil Gushansky, the scale of psychiatric abuses in the past, the use of psychiatric doctrines by the totalitarian state have been thoroughly concealed. The archives of the Soviet Ministries of Internal Affairs (MVD) and Health (USSR Health Ministry), and of the Serbsky Institute for Forensic Psychiatry, which between them hold evidence about the expansion of psychiatry and the regulations governing that expansion, remain totally closed to researchers, says Gushansky. Dan Healey shares his opinion that the abuses of Soviet psychiatry under Stalin and, even more dramatically, in the 1960s to 1980s remain under-researched: the contents of the main archives are still classified and inaccessible. Hundreds of files on people who underwent forensic psychiatric examinations at the Serbsky Institute during Stalin's time are on the shelves of the highly classified archive in its basement where Gluzman saw them in 1989. All are marked by numbers without names or surnames, and any biographical data they contain is unresearched and inaccessible to researchers.\n\nAnatoly Sobchak, the former Mayor of Saint Petersburg, wrote:\nIn Ukraine, a study of the origins of the political abuse of psychiatry was conducted for five years on the basis of the State archives. A total of 60 people were again examined. All were citizens of Ukraine, convicted of political crimes and hospitalized on the territory of Ukraine. Not one of them, it turned out, was in need of any psychiatric treatment.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1995, a presidential decree on measures to prevent future abuse of psychiatry was being drafted at the Commission for Rehabilitation of the Victims of Political Repression. For this purpose, Anatoly Prokopenko selected suitable archival documents and, at the request of Vladimir Naumov, the head of research and publications at the Commission, Emmanuil Gushansky drew up the report. It correlated the archival data presented to Gushansky with materials received during his visits, conducted jointly with the commission of the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia, to several strict-regime psychiatric hospitals (former Special Hospitals under MVD control). When the materials for discussion in the Commission for Rehabilitation of the Victims of Political Repression were ready, however, the work came to a standstill. The documents failed to reach the head of the Commission Alexander Yakovlev.\n\nThe report on political abuse of psychiatry prepared at the request of the Commission by Gushansky with the aid of Prokopenko lay unclaimed and even the \"Independent Psychiatric Journal\" (Nezavisimiy Psikhiatricheskiy Zhurnal) would not publish it. The Moscow Research Center for Human Rights headed by Boris Altshuler and Alexei Smirnov and the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia whose president is Yuri Savenko were asked by Gushansky to publish the materials and archival documents on punitive psychiatry but showed no interest in doing so. Publishing such documents is dictated by present-day needs and by how far it is feared that psychiatry could again be abused for non-medical purposes.\n\nIn its 2000 report, the Commission for Rehabilitation of the Victims of Political Repression included only the following four phrases about the political abuse of psychiatry:\nIn the 1988 and 1989, about two million people were removed from the psychiatric registry at the request of Western psychiatrists. It was one of their conditions for the re-admission of Soviet psychiatrists to the World Psychiatric Association. Yury Savenko has provided different figures in different publications: about one million, up to one and a half million, about one and a half million people removed from the psychiatric registry. Mikhail Buyanov provided the figure of over two million people removed from the psychiatric registry.\n\nIn 1990, \"Psychiatric Bulletin of the Royal College of Psychiatrists\" published the article \"Compulsion in psychiatry: blessing or curse?\" by Russian psychiatrist Anatoly Koryagin. It contains analysis of the abuse of psychiatry and eight arguments by which the existence of a system of political abuse of psychiatry in the USSR can easily be demonstrated. As Koryagin wrote, in a dictatorial State with a totalitarian regime, such as the USSR, the laws have at all times served not the purpose of self-regulation of the life of society but have been one of the major levers by which to manipulate the behavior of subjects. Every Soviet citizen has constantly been straight considered state property and been regarded not as the aim, but as a means to achieve the rulers' objectives. From the perspective of state pragmatism, a mentally sick person was regarded as a burden to society, using up the state's material means without recompense and not producing anything, and even potentially capable of inflicting harm. Therefore, the Soviet State never considered it reasonable to pass special legislative acts protecting the material and legal part of the patients' life. It was only instructions of the legal and medical departments that stipulated certain rules of handling the mentally sick and imposing different sanctions on them. A person with a mental disorder was automatically divested of all rights and depended entirely on the psychiatrists' will. Practically anybody could undergo psychiatric examination on the most senseless grounds and the issued diagnosis turned him into a person without rights. It was this lack of legal rights and guarantees that advantaged a system of repressive psychiatry in the country.\n\nAccording to American psychiatrist Oleg Lapshin, Russia until 1993 did not have any specific legislation in the field of mental health except uncoordinated instructions and articles of laws in criminal and administrative law, orders of the USSR Ministry of Health. In the Soviet Union, any psychiatric patient could be hospitalized by request of his headman, relatives or instructions of a district psychiatrist. In this case, patient's consent or dissent mattered not. The duration of treatment in a psychiatric hospital also depended entirely on the psychiatrist. All of that made the abuse of psychiatry possible to suppress those who opposed the political regime, and that created the vicious practice of ignoring the rights of the mentally ill.\n\nAccording to Yuri Savenko, the president of the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia (the IPA), punitive psychiatry arises on the basis of the interference of three main factors:\nTheir interaction system is principally sociological: the presence of the Penal Code article on slandering the state system inevitably results in sending a certain percentage of citizens to forensic psychiatric examination. Thus, it is not psychiatry itself that is punitive, but the totalitarian state uses psychiatry for punitive purposes with ease.\n\nAccording to Larry Gostin, the root cause of the problem was the State itself. The definition of danger was radically extended by the Soviet criminal system to cover \"political\" as well as customary physical types of \"danger\". As Bloch and Reddaway note, there are no objective reliable criteria to determine whether the person's behavior will be dangerous, and approaches to the definition of dangerousness greatly differ among psychiatrists.\n\nRichard Bonnie, a professor of law and medicine at the University of Virginia School of Law, mentioned the deformed nature of the Soviet psychiatric profession as one of the explanations for why it was so easily bent toward the repressive objectives of the state, and pointed out the importance of a civil society and, in particular, independent professional organizations separate and apart from the state as one of the most substantial lessons from the period.\n\nAccording to Norman Sartorius, a former president of the World Psychiatric Association, political abuse of psychiatry in the former Soviet Union was facilitated by the fact that the national classification included categories that could be employed to label dissenters, who could then be forcibly incarcerated and kept in psychiatric hospitals for \"treatment\". Darrel Regier, vice-chair of the DSM-5 task force, has a similar opinion that the political abuse of psychiatry in the USSR was sustained by the existence of a classification developed in the Soviet Union and used to organize psychiatric treatment and care. In this classification, there were categories with diagnoses that could be given to political dissenters and led to the harmful involuntary medication.\n\nAccording to Moscow psychiatrist Alexander Danilin, the so-called \"nosological\" approach in the Moscow psychiatric school established by Snezhnevsky boiles down to the ability to make the only diagnosis, schizophrenia; psychiatry is not science but such a system of opinions and people by the thousands are falling victims to these opinions—millions of lives were crippled by virtue of the concept \"sluggish schizophrenia\" introduced some time once by an academician Snezhnevsky, whom Danilin called a state criminal.\n\nSt Petersburg academic psychiatrist professor Yuri Nuller notes that the concept of Snezhnevsky's school allowed psychiatrists to consider, for example, schizoid psychopathy and even schizoid character traits as early, delayed in their development, stages of the inevitable progredient process, rather than as personality traits inherent to the individual, the dynamics of which might depend on various external factors. The same also applied to a number of other personality disorders. It entailed the extremely broadened diagnostics of sluggish (neurosis-like, psychopathy-like) schizophrenia. Despite a number of its controversial premises and in line with the traditions of then Soviet science, Snezhnevsky's hypothesis has immediately acquired the status of dogma which was later overcome in other disciplines but firmly stuck in psychiatry. Snezhnevsky's concept, with its dogmatism, proved to be psychologically comfortable for many psychiatrists, relieving them from doubt when making a diagnosis. That carried a great danger: any deviation from a norm evaluated by a doctor could be regarded as an early phase of schizophrenia, with all ensuing consequences. It resulted in the broad opportunity for voluntary and involuntary abuses of psychiatry. However, Snezhnevsky did not take civil and scientific courage to reconsider his concept which clearly reached a deadlock.\n\nAccording to American psychiatrist Walter Reich, the misdiagnoses of dissidents resulted from some characteristics of Soviet psychiatry that were distortions of standard psychiatric logic, theory, and practice.\n\nAccording to Semyon Gluzman, abuse of psychiatry to suppress dissent is based on condition of psychiatry in a totalitarian state. Psychiatric paradigm of a totalitarian state is culpable for its expansion into spheres which are not initially those of psychiatric competence. Psychiatry as a social institution, formed and functioning in the totalitarian state, is incapable of not being totalitarian. Such psychiatry is forced to serve the two differently directed principles: care and treatment of mentally ill citizens, on the one hand, and psychiatric repression of people showing political or ideological dissent, on the other hand. In the conditions of the totalitarian state, independent-minded psychiatrists appeared and may again appear, but these few people cannot change the situation in which thousands of others, who were brought up on incorrect pseudoscientific concepts and fear of the state, will sincerely believe that the uninhibited, free thinking of a citizen is a symptom of madness. Gluzman specifies the following six premises for the unintentional participation of doctors in abuses:\nGluzman says that there, of course, may be a different approach to the issue expressed by Michel Foucault.\nAccording to Michael Perlin, Foucault in his book \"Madness and Civilization\" documented the history of using institutional psychiatry as a political tool, researched the expanded use of the public hospitals in the 17th century in France and came to the conclusion that \"confinement [was an] answer to an economic crisis... reduction of wages, unemployment, scarcity of coin\" and, by the 18th century, the psychiatric hospitals satisfied \"the indissociably economic and moral demand for confinement.\"\n\nIn 1977, British psychiatrist David Cooper asked Foucault the same question which Claude Bourdet had formerly asked Viktor Fainberg during a press conference given by Fainberg and Leonid Plyushch: when the USSR has the whole penitentiary and police apparatus, which could take charge of anybody, and which is perfect in itself, why do they use psychiatry? Foucault answered it was not a question of a \"distortion\" of the use of psychiatry but that was its fundamental project. In the discussion \"Confinement, Psychiatry, Prison\", Foucault states the cooperation of psychiatrists with the KGB in the Soviet Union was not abuse of medicine, but an evident case and \"condensation\" of psychiatry's \"inheritance\", an \"intensification, the ossification of a kinship structure that has never ceased to function.\" Foucault believed that the abuse of psychiatry in the USSR of the 1960s was a logical extension of the invasion of psychiatry into the legal system. In the discussion with Jean Laplanche and Robert Badinter, Foucault says that criminologists of the 1880—1900s started speaking surprisingly modern language: \"The crime cannot be, for the criminal, but an abnormal, disturbed behavior. If he upsets society, it's because he himself is upset\". This led to the twofold conclusions. First, \"the judicial apparatus is no longer useful.\" The judges, as men of law, understand such complex, alien legal issues, purely psychological matters no better than the criminal. So commissions of psychiatrists and physicians should be substituted for the judicial apparatus. And in this vein, concrete projects were proposed. Second, \"We must certainly treat this individual who is dangerous only because he is sick. But, at the same time, we must protect society against him.\" Hence comes the idea of mental isolation with a mixed function: therapeutic and prophylactic. In the 1900s, these projects have given rise to very lively responses from European judicial and political bodies. However, they found a wide field of applications when the Soviet Union became one of the most common but by no means exceptional cases.\n\nAccording to American psychiatrist Jonas Robitscher, psychiatry has been playing a part in controlling deviant behavior for three hundred years. Vagrants, \"originals,\" eccentrics, and homeless wanderers who did little harm but were vexatious to the society they lived in were, and sometimes still are, confined to psychiatric hospitals or deprived of their legal rights. Some critics of psychiatry consider the practice as a political use of psychiatry and regard psychiatry as promoting timeserving.\n\nAs Vladimir Bukovsky and Semyon Gluzman point out, it is difficult for the average Soviet psychiatrist to understand the dissident's poor adjustment to Soviet society. This view of dissidence has nothing surprising about it—conformity reigned in Soviet consciousness; a public intolerance of non-conformist behavior always penetrated Soviet culture; and the threshold for deviance from custom was similarly low.\n\nAn example of the low threshold is a point of Donetsk psychiatrist Valentine Pekhterev, who argues that psychiatrists speak of the necessity of adapting oneself to society, estimate the level of man's social functioning, his ability to adequately test the reality and so forth. In Pekhterev's words, these speeches hit point-blank on the dissidents and revolutionaries, because all of them are poorly functioning in society, are hardly adapting to it either initially or after increasing requirements. They turn their inability to adapt themselves to society into the view that the company breaks step and only they know how to help the company restructure itself. The dissidents regard the cases of personal maladjustment as a proof of public ill-being. The more such cases, the easier it is to present their personal ill-being as public one. They bite the society's hand that feed them only because they are not given a right place in society. Unlike the dissidents, the psychiatrists destroy the hardly formed defense attitude in the dissidents by regarding \"public well-being\" as personal one. The psychiatrists extract teeth from the dissidents, stating that they should not bite the feeding hand of society only because the tiny group of the dissidents feel bad being at their place. The psychiatrists claim the need to treat not society but the dissidents and seek to improve society by preserving and improving the mental health of its members. After reading the book \"Institute of Fools\" by Viktor Nekipelov, Pekhterev concluded that allegations against the psychiatrists sounded from the lips of a negligible but vociferous part of inmates who when surfeiting themselves with cakes pretended to be sufferers.\n\nAccording to the response by Robert van Voren, Pekhterev in his article condescendingly argues that the Serbsky Institute was not so bad place and that Nekipelov exaggerates and slanders it, but Pekhterev, by doing so, misses the main point: living conditions in the Serbsky Institute were not bad, those who passed through psychiatric examination there were in a certain sense \"on holiday\" in comparison with the living conditions of the Gulag; and all the same, everyone was aware that the Serbsky Institute was more than the \"gates of hell\" from where people were sent to specialized psychiatric hospitals in Chernyakhovsk, Dnepropetrovsk, Kazan, Blagoveshchensk, and that is not all. Their life was transformed to unimaginable horror with daily tortures by forced administration of drugs, beatings and other forms of punishment. Many went crazy, could not endure what was happening to them, some even died during the \"treatment\" (for example, a miner from Donetsk Alexey Nikitin). Many books and memoirs are written about the life in the psychiatric Gulag and every time when reading them a shiver seizes us. The Soviet psychiatric terror in its brutality and targeting the mentally ill as the most vulnerable group of society had nothing on the Nazi euthanasia programs. The punishment by placement in a mental hospital was as effective as imprisonment in Mordovian concentration camps in breaking persons psychologically and physically. The recent history of the USSR should be given a wide publicity to immunize society against possible repetitions of the Soviet practice of political abuse of psychiatry. The issue remains highly relevant.\n\nAccording to Fedor Kondratev, an expert of the Serbsky Center and supporter of Snezhnevsky and his colleagues who developed the concept of sluggish schizophrenia in the 1960s, those arrested by the KGB under RSFSR Criminal Code Article 70 (\"anti-Soviet agitation and propaganda\"), 190-1 (\"dissemination of knowingly false fabrications that defame the Soviet state and social system\") made up, in those years, the main group targeted by the period of using psychiatry for political purposes. It was they who began to be searched for \"psychopathological mechanisms\" and, therefore, mental illness which gave the grounds to recognize an accused person as mentally incompetent, to debar him from appearance and defence in court, and then to send him for compulsory treatment to a special psychiatric hospital of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The trouble (not guilt) of Soviet psychiatric science was its theoretical overideologization as a result of the strict demand to severely preclude any deviations from the \"exclusively scientific\" concept of Marxism–Leninism. This showed, in particular, in the fact that Soviet psychiatry under the totalitarian regime considered that penetrating the inner life of an ill person was flawed psychologization, existentionalization. In this connection, one did not admit the possibility that an individual can behave \"in a different way than others do\" not only because of his mental illness but on the ground alone of his moral sets consistently with his conscience. It entailed the consequence: if a person different from all others opposes the political system, one needs to search for \"psychopathological mechanisms\" of his dissent. Even in cases when catamnesis confirmed the correctness of a diagnosis of schizophrenia, it did not always mean that mental disorders were the cause of dissent and, all the more, that one needed to administer compulsory treatment \"for it\" in special psychiatric hospitals. What seems essential is another fact that the mentally ill could oppose the totalitarianism as well, by no means due to their \"psychopathological mechanisms\", but as persons who, despite having the diagnosis of schizophrenia, retained moral civic landmarks. Any ill person with schizophrenia could be a dissident if his conscience could not keep silent, Kondratev says.\n\nAccording to St Petersburg psychiatrist Vladimir Pshizov, with regard to punitive psychiatry, the nature of psychiatry is of such a sort that using psychiatrists against opponents of authorities is always tempting for the authorities, because it is seemingly possible not to take into account an opinion by the person who received a diagnosis. Therefore, the issue will always remain relevant. While we do not have government policy of using psychiatry for repression, psychiatrists and former psychiatric nomenklatura retained the same on-the-spot reflexes.\n\nAs Ukrainian psychiatrist Ada Korotenko notes, the use of punitive psychiatry allowed of avoiding the judicial procedure during which the accused might declare the impossibility to speak publicly and the violation of their civil rights. Making a psychiatric diagnosis is insecure and can be based on a preconception. Moreover, while diagnosing mental illness, subjective fuzzy diagnostic criteria are involved as arguments. The lack of clear diagnostic criteria and clearly defined standards of diagnostics contributes to applying punitive psychiatry to vigorous and gifted citizens who disagree with authorities. At the same time, most psychiatrists incline to believe that such a misdiagnosis is less dangerous than not diagnosing mental illness.\n\nGerman psychiattist Hanfried Helmchen says the uncertainty of diagnosis is prone to other than medical influence, e.g., political influence, as was the case with Soviet dissenters who were stifled by a psychiatric diagnosis, especially that of \"sluggish schizophrenia,\" in order to take them away from society in special psychiatric hospitals.\n\nAccording to Russian psychologist Dmitry Leontev, punitive psychiatry in the Soviet Union was based on the assumption that only a madman can go against public dogma and seek for truth and justice.\n\nK. Fulford, A. Smirnov, and E. Snow state: \"An important vulnerability factor, therefore, for the abuse of psychiatry, is the subjective nature of the observations on which psychiatric diagnosis currently depends.\" The concerns about political abuse of psychiatry as a tactic of controlling dissent have been regularly voiced by American psychiatrist Thomas Szasz, and he mentioned that these authors, who correctly emphasized the value-laden nature of psychiatric diagnoses and the subjective character of psychiatric classifications, failed to accept the role of psychiatric power. Musicologists, drama critics, art historians, and many other scholars also create their own subjective classifications; however, lacking state-legitimated power over persons, their classifications do not lead to anyone's being deprived of property, liberty, or life. For instance, plastic surgeon's classification of beauty is subjective, but the plastic surgeon cannot treat his or her patient without the patient's consent, therefore, there \"cannot\" be any political abuse of plastic surgery. The bedrock of political medicine is coercion masquerading as medical treatment. What transforms coercion into therapy are physicians \"diagnosing\" the person's condition a \"illness,\" \"declaring\" the intervention they impose on the victim a \"treatment,\" and legislators and judges \"legitimating\" these categorizations as \"illnesses\" and \"treatments.\" In the same way, physician-eugenicists advocated killing certain disabled or ill persons as a form of treatment for both society and patient long before the Nazis came to power. Szasz argued that the spectacle of the Western psychiatrists loudly condemning Soviet colleagues for their abuse of professional standards was largely an exercise in hypocrisy. Psychiatric abuse, such as people usually associated with practices in the former USSR, was connected not with the misuse of psychiatric diagnoses, but with the political power built into the social role of the psychiatrist in democratic and totalitarian societies alike. Psychiatrically and legally fit subjects for involuntary mental hospitalization had always been \"dissidents.\" It is the contents and contours of dissent that has changed. Before the American Civil War, dissent was constituted by being a Negro and wanting to escape from slavery. In Soviet Russia, dissent was constituted by wanting to \"reform\" Marxism or emigrate to escape from it. As Szasz put it, \"the classification by slave owners and slave traders of certain individuals as Negroes was scientific, in the sense that whites were rarely classified as blacks. But that did not prevent the \"abuse\" of such racial classification, because (what we call) its abuse was, in fact, its use.\" The collaboration between psychiatry and government leads to what Szasz calls the \"Therapeutic State\", a system in which disapproved actions, thoughts, and emotions are repressed (\"cured\") through pseudomedical interventions. Thus suicide, unconventional religious beliefs, racial bigotry, unhappiness, anxiety, shyness, sexual promiscuity, shoplifting, gambling, overeating, smoking, and illegal drug use are all considered symptoms or illnesses that need to be cured.\n\nAs Michael Robertson and Garry Walter suppose, psychiatric power in practically all societies expands on the grounds of public safety, which, in the view of the leaders of the USSR, was best maintained by the repression of dissidence. According to Gwen Adshead, a British forensic psychotherapist at the Broadmoor Hospital, the question is what is meant by the word \"abnormal.\" Evidently it is possible for abnormal to be identified as \"socially inappropriate.\" If that is the case, social and political dissent is turned into a symptom by the medical terminology, and thereby becomes an individual's personal problem, not a social matter.\n\nAccording to Russian psychiatrist Emmanuil Gushansky, psychiatry is the only medical specialty in which the doctor is given the right to violence for the benefit of the patient. The application of violence must be based on the mental health law, must be as much as possible transparent and monitored by representatives of the interests of persons who are in need of involuntary examination and treatment. While being hospitalized in a psychiatric hospital for urgent indications, the patient should be accompanied by his relatives, witnesses, or other persons authorized to control the actions of doctors and law-enforcement agencies. Otherwise, psychiatry becomes an obedient maid for administrative and governmental agencies and is deprived of its medical function. It is the police that must come to the aid of citizens and is responsible for their security. Only later, after the appropriate legal measures for social protection have been taken, the psychiatrist must respond to the queries of law enforcement and judicial authorities by solving the issues of involuntary hospitalization, sanity, etc. In Russia, all that goes by opposites. The psychiatrist is vested with punitive functions, is involved in involuntary hospitalization, the state machine hides behind his back, actually manipulating the doctor. The police are reluctant to investigate offences committed by the mentally ill. After receiving the information about their disease, the bodies of inquiry very often stop the investigation and do not bring it to the level of investigative actions. Thereby psychiatry becomes a cloak for the course of justice and, by doing so, serves as a source for the rightlessness and stigmatization of both psychiatrists and persons with mental disorders. The negative attitude to psychiatrists is thereby supported by the state machine and is accompanied by the aggression against the doctors, which increases during the periods of social unrest.\n\nVladimir Bukovsky, well known for his struggle against political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union, explained that using psychiatry against dissidents was usable to the KGB because hospitalization did not have an end date, and, as a result, there were cases when dissidents were kept in psychiatric prison hospitals for 10 or even 15 years. \"Once they pump you with drugs, they can forget about you\", he said and added, \"I saw people who basically were asleep for years.\"\n\nUS President Ronald Reagan attributed the view that the \"brutal treatment of Soviet dissidents was due to bureaucratic inertia.\"\n\nIn the opinion of the Moscow Helsinki Group chairwoman Lyudmila Alexeyeva, the attribution of a mental illness to a prominent figure who came out with a political declaration or action is the most significant factor in the assessment of psychiatry during the 1960–1980s. The practice of forced confinement of political dissidents in psychiatric facilities in the former USSR and Eastern Europe destroyed the credibility of psychiatric practice in these countries. When psychiatric profession is discredited in one part of the world, psychiatry is discredited throughout the world. Psychiatry lost its professional basis entirely with its abuse to stifle dissidence in the former USSR and in the so-called euthanasia program in Nazi Germany. There is little doubt that the capacity for using psychiatry to enforce social norms and even political interests is immense. Now psychiatry is vulnerable because many of its notions have been questioned, and the sustainable pattern of mental life, of boundaries of mental norm and abnormality has been lost, director of the Moscow Research Institute for Psychiatry Valery Krasnov says, adding that psychiatrists have to seek new reference points to make clinical assessments and new reference points to justify old therapeutical interventions.\n\nAs Emmanuil Gushansky states, today subjective position of a Russian patient toward a medical psychologist and psychiatrist is defensive in nature and prevents the attempt to understand the patient and help him assess his condition. Such a position is related to constant, subconscious fear of psychiatrists and psychiatry. This fear is caused by not only abuse of psychiatry, but also constant violence in the totalitarian and post-totalitarian society. The psychiatric violence and psychiatric arrogance as one of manifestations of such violence is related to the primary emphasis on symptomatology and biological causes of a disease, while ignoring psychological, existential, and psychodynamic factors. Gushainsky notices that the modern Russian psychiatry and the structure of providing mental health care are aimed not at protecting the patient's right to an own place in life, but at discrediting such a right, revealing symptoms and isolating the patient.\n\nThe psychiatrist became a scarecrow attaching psychiatric labels. He is feared, is not confided, is not taken into confidence in the secrets of one's soul and is asked to provide only medications. Psychiatric labels, or stigmas, have spread so widely that there is no such thing as the media that does not call a disliked person \"schizo\" and does not generalize psychiatric assessments to phenomena of public life. The word \"psikhushka\" entered everyday vocabulary. All persons who deviate from the usual standards of thought and behavior are declared mentally ill, with an approving giggling of public. Not surprisingly, during such a stigmatization, people with real mental disorders fear publicity like the plague. Vilnius psychologist Oleg Lapin has the same point that politicians and the press attach psychological, psychiatric and medical labels; he adds that psychiatry has acquired the new status of normalizing life that was previously possessed by religion. Formerly, one could say: you are going against God or God is with us; now one can say: I behave reasonably, adequately, and you do not behave in that way. In 2007, Alexander Dugin, a professor at the Moscow State University and adviser to State Duma speaker Sergei Naryshkin, presented opponents of Vladimir Putin's policy as mentally ill by saying, \"There are no longer opponents of Putin's policy, and if there are, they are mentally ill and should be sent to prophylactic health examination.\" In \"The Moscow Regional Psychiatric Newspaper\" of 2012, psychiatrist Dilya Enikeyeva in violation of medical privacy and ethics publicized the diagnosis of histrionic personality disorder, which she in absentia gave Kseniya Sobchak, a Russian TV anchor and a member of political opposition, and stated that Sobchak was harmful to society.\n\nRobert van Voren noted that after the fall of the Berlin Wall, it became apparent that the political abuse of psychiatry in the USSR was only the tip of the iceberg, the sign that much more was basically wrong. This much more realistic image of Soviet psychiatry showed up only after the Soviet regime began to loosen its grip on society and later lost control over the developments and in the end entirely disintegrated. It demonstrated that the actual situation was much sorer and that many individuals had been affected. Millions of individuals were treated and stigmatized by an outdated biologically oriented and hospital-based mental health service. Living conditions in clinics were bad, sometimes even terrible, and violations of human rights were rampant. According to the data of a census published in 1992, the mortality of the ill with schizophrenia exceeded that of the general population by 4–6 times for the age of 20–39 years, by 3–4 times for the age of 30–39 years, by 1.5–2 times for the age over 40 years (larger values are for women).\n\nAccording to Robert van Voren, although for several years, especially after the implosion of the USSR and during the first years of Boris Yeltsin's rule, the positions of the Soviet psychiatric leaders were in jeopardy, now one can firmly conclude that they succeeded in riding out the storm and retaining their powerful positions. They also succeeded in avoiding an inflow of modern concepts of delivering mental health care and a fundamental change in the structure of psychiatric services in Russia. On the whole, in Russia, the impact of mental health reformers has been the least. Even the reform efforts made in such places as St. Petersburg, Tomsk, and Kaliningrad have faltered or were encapsulated as centrist policies under Putin brought them back under control.\n\nThroughout the post-communist period, the pharmaceutical industry has mainly been an obstacle to reform. Aiming to explore the vast market of the former USSR, they used the situation to make professionals and services totally dependent on their financial sustenance, turned the major attention to the availability of medicines rather than that of psycho-social rehabilitation services, and stimulated corruption within the mental health sector very much.\n\nAt the turn of the century, the psychiatric reform that had been implemented by Franco Basaglia in Italy became known and was publicly declared to be implemented in Russia, with the view of retrenchment of expenditures. But when it became clear that even more money was needed for the reform, it got bogged down in the same way the reform of the army and many other undertakings did. Russia is decades behind the countries of the European Union in mental health reform, which has already been implemented or is being implemented in them. Until Russian society, Gushansky says, is aware of the need for mental health reform, we will live in the atmosphere of animosity, mistrust and violence. Many experts believe that problems spread beyond psychiatry to society as a whole. As Robert van Voren supposes, the Russians want to have their compatriots with mental disorders locked up outside the city and do not want to have them in community. Despite the 1992 Russian Mental Health Law, coercive psychiatry in Russia remains generally unregulated and fashioned by the same trends toward hyperdiagnosis and overreliance on institutional care characteristic of the Soviet period. In the Soviet Union, there had been an increase of the bed numbers because psychiatric services had been used to treat dissidents.\n\nIn 2005, the Russian Federation had one of the highest levels of psychiatric beds per capita in Europe at 113.2 per 100,000 population, or more than 161,000 beds. In 2014, Russia has 104.8 beds per 100,000 population and no actions have been taken to arrange new facilities for outpatient services. Persons who do not respond well to treatment at dispensaries can be sent to long-term social care institutions (internats) wherein they remain indefinitely. The internats are managed by oblast Social Protection ministries. Russia had 442 psychoneurologic internats by 1999, and their number amounted to 505 by 2013. The internats provided places for approximately 125,000 people in 2007. In 2013, Russian psychoneurologic internats accommodated 146,000 people, according to the consolidated data of the Department of Social Protection of Moscow and the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection of the Russian Federation. It is supposed that the number of beds in internats is increasing at the same rate with which the number of beds is decreasing in psychiatric hospitals. Lyubov Vinogradova of the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia provides the different figure of 122,091 or 85.5 places in psychoneurologic institutions of social protection (internats) per 100,000 population in 2013 and says that Russia is high on Europe's list of the number of places in the institutions. Vinogradova states that many regions have the catastrophic shortage of places in psychoneurological internats, her words point out to the need to increase the number of places there and to the fact that the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia is forcing transinstitutionalization—relocating the mentally ill from their homes and psychiatric hospitals to psychoneurological internats.\n\nAt his press conference in 2008, Semyon Gluzman said that the surplus in Ukraine of hospitals for inpatient treatment of the mentally ill was a relic of the totalitarian communist regime and that Ukraine did not have epidemic of schizophrenia but somehow Ukraine had about 90 large psychiatric hospitals including the Pavlov Hospital where beds in its children's unit alone were more than in the whole of Great Britain. In Ukraine, public opinion did not contribute to the protection of citizens against possible recurrence of political abuse of psychiatry. There were no demonstrations and rallies in support of the mental health law. But there was a public campaign against developing the civilized law and against liberalizing the provision of psychiatric care in the country. The campaign was initiated and conducted by relatives of psychiatric patients. They wrote to newspapers, yelled in busy places and around them, behaved in the unbridled way in ministerial offices and corridors. Once Gluzman saw through a trolleybus window a group of 20-30 people standing by a window of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with red flags, portraits of Lenin and Stalin and the slogan coarsely written on the white cardboard: \"Get the Gluzman psychiatry off Ukraine!\" Activists of the dissident movement far from the nostalgia for the past also participated in the actions against changes in the mental health system. But in general, it should be remembered that all these protest actions have been activated by nomenklatura psychiatrists. The whole Ukrainian psychiatric system actually consists of the two units: hospital for treatment of acute psychiatric conditions and internat-hospice for helpless \"chronic patients\" unable to live on their own. And between hospital and internat-hospice is desert. That is why about 40 percent of patients in any Ukrainian psychiatric hospital are so-called social patients whose stay in the psychiatric hospital is not due to medical indications. A similar pattern is in internats. A significant part of their lifelong customers could have lived long enough in society despite their mental illnesses. They could have lived quite comfortably and safely for themselves and others in special dorms, nursing homes, \"halfway houses\". Ukraine does not have anything like that.\n\nIn the Soviet times, mental hospitals were frequently created in former monasteries, barracks, and even concentration camps. Sofia Dorinskaya, a human rights activist and psychiatrist, says she saw former convicts who have been living in a Russian mental hospital for ten years and will have been staying there until their dying day because of having no home. Deinstitutionalization has not touched many of the hospitals, and persons still die inside them. In 2013, 70 persons died in a fire just outside Novgorod and Moscow. Living conditions are often insufficient and sometimes horrible: 12 to 15 patients in a big room with bars on the windows, no bedside tables, often no partitions, not enough toilets. The number of outpatient clinics designed for the primary care of the mentally disordered stopped increasing in 2005 and was reduced to 277 in 2012 as against 318 in 2005. Stigma linked to mental disease is at the level of xenophobia. The Russian public perceive the mentally sick as harmful, useless, incurable, and dangerous. The social stigma is maintained not only by the general public but also by psychiatrists.\n\nTraditional values have endured the attempt by western institutions to impose a positive image of deviant behavior. For instance, in spite of the removal of homosexuality from the nomenclature of mental disorders, 62.5% of 450 surveyed psychiatrists in the Rostov Region view it as an illness, and up to three quarters view it as immoral behavior. The psychiatrists sustain the ban on gay parades and the use of veiled schemes to lay off openly lesbian and gay persons from schools, child care centers, and other public institutions. The chief psychiatrist of Russia Zurab Kekelidze in his 2013 interview to Dozhd says that a part of the cases of homosexuality is a mental disorder, he counters the remark that the World Health Organization removed homosexuality from the list of mental disorders by stating that it is not true. Homosexuality, which is a mental disorder, was continuously defined as such by the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia in 2005 when its president Savenko expressed their joint surprise at the proposal by the Executive Committee of the American Psychiatric Association to exclude homosexuality as a mental disorder from manuals on psychiatry due to political pressure from western NGOs and governments, referred the proposal to antipsychiatric actions, and stated that ideological, social and liberal reasoning for the proposal was substituted for scientific one. In 2014, Savenko changed his mind about homosexuality, and he along with Alexei Perekhov succumb to pressure and, in their joint paper criticized and referred the trend to consider homosexuality as a mental disorder to Soviet mentality.\n\nIn 1994, there was organized a conference concerned with the theme of political abuse of psychiatry and attended by representatives from different former Soviet Republics — from Russia, Belarus, the Baltics, the Caucasus, and some of the Central Asian Republics. Dainius Puras made a report on the situation within the Lithuanian Psychiatric Association, where discussion had been held but no resolution had been passed. Yuri Nuller talked over how in Russia the wind direction was gradually changing and the systematic political abuse of psychiatry was again being denied and degraded as an issue of \"hyperdiagnosis\" or \"scientific disagreement.\" It was particularly noteworthy that Tatyana Dmitrieva, the then Director of the Serbsky Institute, was a proponent of such belittlement. This was not so queer, because she was a close friend of the key architects of \"political psychiatry.\"\n\nIn the early 1990s, she spoke the required words of repentance for political abuse of psychiatry which had had unprecedented dimensions in the Soviet Union for discrediting, intimidation and suppression of the human rights movement carried out primarily in this institution. Her words were widely broadcast abroad but were published only in the St. Petersburg newspaper \"Chas Pik\" within the country. However, in her 2001 book \"Aliyans Prava i Milosediya\" (\"The Alliance of Law and Mercy\"), Dmitrieva wrote that there were no psychiatric abuses and certainly no more than in Western countries. Moreover, the book makes the charge that professor Vladimir Serbsky and other intellectuals were wrong not to cooperate with the police department in preventing revolution and bloodsheds and that the current generation is wrong to oppose the regime. In 2007, Dmitrieva asserted that the practice of \"punitive psychiatry\" had been grossly exaggerated, while nothing wrong had been done by the Serbsky Institute. After that an official at the Serbsky Institute declared \"patient\" Vladimir Bukovsky, who was then going to run for the President of the Russian Federation, undoubtedly \"psychopathic\".\n\nWhile speaking of the Serbsky Center, Yuri Savenko alleges that \"practically nothing has changed. They have no shame at the institute about their role with the Communists. They are the same people, and they do not want to apologize for all their actions in the past.\" Attorney Karen Nersisyan agrees: \"Serbsky is not an organ of medicine. It's an organ of power.\" According to human rights activist and former psychiatrist Sofia Dorinskaya, the system of Soviet psychiatry has not been destroyed, the Serbsky Institute is standing where it did, the same people who worked in the Soviet system are working there. She says we have a situation like after the defeat of fascism in Germany, when fascism officially collapsed, but all governors of acres, judges and all people remained after the fascist regime.\n\nIn his article of 2002, Alan A. Stone, who as a member of team had examined Pyotr Grigorenko and found him mentally healthy in 1979, disregarded the findings of the World Psychiatric Association and the later avowal of Soviet psychiatrists themselves and put forward the academically revisionist theory that there was no political abuse of psychiatry as a tool against pacific dissidence in the former USSR. He asserted that it was time for psychiatry in the Western countries to reconsider the supposedly documented accounts of political abuse of psychiatry in the USSR in the hope of discovering that Soviet psychiatrists were more deserving of sympathy than condemnation. In Stone's words, he believes that Snezhnevsky was wrongly condemned by critics. According to Stone, one of the first points the Soviet psychiatrists who have been condemned for unethical political abuse of psychiatry make is that the revolution is the greatest good for the greatest number, the greatest piece of social justice, and the greatest beneficence imaginable in the twentieth century. In the Western view, the ethical compass of the Soviet psychiatrists begins to wander when they act in the service of this greatest beneficence.\n\nAccording to St Petersburg psychiatrist Vladimir Pshizov, a disastrous factor for domestic psychiatry is that those who had committed the crime against humanity were allowed to stay on their positions until they can leave this world in a natural way. Those who retained their positions and influence turned domestic psychiatry from politically motivated one to criminally motivated one because the sphere of interests of this public has been reduced to making a business of psychopharmacologic drugs and taking possession of the homes of the ill. In Soviet times, all the heads of departments of psychiatry, all the directors of psychiatric research institutes, all the head doctors of psychiatric hospitals were the CPSU nomenklatura, which they remained so far. The representative of nomenklatura in psychiatry had the scheme of career that is simple and often stereotyped: for one to two years, he run errands as a resident, then joined the party and became a partgrouporg. His junior colleagues (usually non-partisan ones) collected and processed material for his dissertation. Its review of literature, particularly in a research institute for psychiatry, was often written by patients, because only they knew foreign languages, and their party comrades were not up to it, the natural habitat did not stimulate learning a foreign language.\n\nRobert van Voren also says Russian psychiatry is now being headed by the same psychiatrists who was heading psychiatry in Soviet times. Since then Russian psychiatric system has not almost changed. In reality, we still see a sort of the Soviet psychiatry that was in the late 1980s. Russian psychiatrists do not have access to specialized literature published in other countries and do not understand what is world psychiatry. Staff training has not changed, literature is inaccessible, the same psychiatrists teach new generations of specialists. Those of them who know what is world psychiatry and know it is not the same as what is happening in Russia are silent and afraid. The powerful core of the old nomenklatura in psychiatry was concentrated in Moscow, and it was clear that the struggle inside their fortress would be not only difficult, but also it would be a waste of time, energy and resources, so the Global Initiative on Psychiatry has been avoiding Moscow almost completely for all the years. Instead, the Global Initiative on Psychiatry took active part in projects for reforming the mental health service in Ukraine, donated a printing plant to Ukrainian public, organized a publishing house, helped print a huge amount of medical and legal literature distributed for free, but the Ukrainian tax police accused the publishing house of manufacturing counterfeit dollars, and a significant part of humanitarian aid that the Global Initiative on Psychiatry had gathered in the Netherlands for Ukrainian psychiatric hospitals was stolen in Kiev.\n\nMany of the current leaders of Russian psychiatry, especially those who were related to the establishment in Soviet period, have resiled from their avowal read at the 1989 General Assembly of the WPA that Soviet psychiatry had been systematically abused for political purposes. Among such leaders who did so is Aleksandr Tiganov, a pupil of Snezhnevsky, full member of the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences, the director of its Mental Health Research Center, and the chief psychiatrist of the Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation. In 2011, when asked whether ill or healthy were those examined because of their disagreements with authority, Tiganov answered, \"These people suffered from sluggish schizophrenia and were on the psychiatric registry.\" According to Tiganov, it was rumored that Snezhnevsky took pity on dissenters and gave them a diagnosis required for placing in a special hospital to save them from a prison, but it is not true, he honestly did his medical duty. The same ideas are voiced in the 2014 interview by Anatoly Smulevich, a pupil of Snezhnevsky, full member of the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences; he says what was attributed to Snesnevsky was that he recognized the healthy as the ill, it did not happen and is pure slander, it is completely ruled out for him to give a diagnosis to a healthy person.\n\nIn 2007, Mikhail Vinogradov, one of the leading staff members of the Serbsky Center, strongly degraded the human rights movement of the Soviet era in every possible way and tried to convince that all political dissidents who had been to his institution were indeed mentally ill. In his opinion, \"now it is clear that all of them are deeply affected people.\" In 2012, Vinogradov said the same, \"Do you talk about human rights activists? Most of them are just unhealthy people, I talked with them. As for the dissident General Grigorenko, I too saw him, kept him under observation, and noted oddities of his thinking. But he was eventually allowed to go abroad, as you know... Who? Bukovsky? I talked with him, and he is a completely crazy character. But he too was allowed to go abroad! You see, human rights activists are people who, due to their mental pathology, are unable to restrain themselves within the standards of society, and the West encourages their inability to do so.\" In the same year, he offered to restore Soviet mental health law and said it \"has never been used for political persecution.\" Human rights activists who claim it did, in Vinogradov's words, \"are not very mentally healthy.\"\n\nRussian psychiatrist Fedor Kondratev not only denied accusations that he was ever personally engaged in Soviet abuses of psychiatry; he stated publicly that the very conception of the existence of Soviet-era \"punitive psychiatry\" was nothing more than: \"the fantasy [vymysel] of the very same people who are now defending totalitarian sects. This is slander, which was [previously] used for anti-Soviet ends, but is now being used for anti-Russian ends.\" He says that there were attempts to use of psychiatry for political purposes but there was no mass psychiatric terror, he calls allegations about the terror a propagandistic weapon of activists of the Cold War. As Alexander Podrabinek writes, psychiatrists of punitive conscription and namely Kondratev are relatively indifferent to the public's indignation over illegal use of psychiatry both in Soviet times and now, they do not notice this public, allowing themselves to ignore any unprofessional opinion. In response to the article by Podrabinek, Kondratev instituted a suit against Podrabinek under Russian Civil Code Article 152 on protecting one's honor, dignity and business reputation. According to Valery Krasnov and Isaak Gurovich, official representatives of psychiatry involved in its political abuse never acknowledged the groundlessness of their diagnostics and actions. The absence of the acknowledgement and the absence of an analysis of made errors cast a shadow upon all psychiatrists in the USSR and, especially, in Russia. As Russian-American historian Georgi Chernyavsky writes, after the fall of the communist regime, no matter how some psychiatrists lean over backwards, foaming at the mouth to this day when stating that they were slandered, that they did not give dissidents diagnoses-sentences, or that, at least, these cases were isolated and not at all related to their personal activities, no matter how the doctors, if one may call them so, try to rebut hundreds if not thousands of real facts, it is undoable.\n\nIn 2004, Savenko stated that the passed law on the state expert activity and the introduction of the profession of forensic expert psychiatrist actually destroyed adversary-based examinations and that the Serbsky Center turned into the complete monopolist of forensic examination, which it had never been under Soviet rule. Formerly, the court could include any psychiatrist in a commission of experts, but now the court only chooses an expert institution. The expert has the right to participate only in commissions that he is included in by the head of his expert institution, and can receive the certificate of qualification as an expert only after having worked in a state expert institution for three years. The Director of the Serbsky Center Dmitrieva was, at the same time, the head of the forensic psychiatry department which is the only one in the country and is located in her Center. No one had ever had such a monopoly.\n\nAccording to Savenko, the Serbsky Center has long labored to legalize its monopolistic position of the Main expert institution of the country. The ambition and permissiveness—which, due to proximity to power, allow the Serbsky Center to get in touch over the telephone with the judges and explain to them who is who and what is the guideline, although the judges themselves have already learned it—have turned out to be a considerable drop in the level of the expert reports on many positions. Such a drop was inevitable and foreseeable in the context of the Serbsky Center efforts to eliminate adversary character of the expert reports of the parties, then to maximally degrade the role of the specialist as a reviewer and critic of the presented expert report, and to legalize the state of affairs. Lyubov Vinogradova believes there has been a continuous diminution in patients' rights as independent experts are now excluded from processes, cannot speak in court and can do nothing against the State experts.\n\nOn 28 May 2009, Yuri Savenko wrote to the then President of the Russian Federation Dmitry Medvedev an open letter, in which Savenko asked Medvedev to submit to the State Duma a draft law prepared by the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia to address the sharp drop in the level of forensic psychiatric examinations, which Savenko attributed to the lack of competition within the sector and its increasing nationalization. The open letter says that the level of the expert reports has dropped to such an extent that it is often a matter of not only the absence of entire sections of the report, even such as the substantiation of its findings, and not only the gross contradiction of its findings to the descriptive section of the report, but it is often a matter of concrete statements which are so contrary to generally accepted scientific terms that doubts about the disinterestedness of the experts arise. According to the letter, courts, in violation of procedural rules, do not analyze the expert report, its coherence and consistency in all its parts, do not check experts' findings for their accuracy, completeness, and objectivity.\n\nOn 15 June 2009, the working group chaired by the Director of the Serbsky Center Tatyana Dmitrieva sent the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation a joint application whose purport was to declare appealing against the forensic expert reports of state expert institutions illegal and prohibit courts from receiving lawsuits filed to appeal against the reports. The reason put forward for the proposal was that the appeals against the expert reports were allegedly filed \"without regard for the scope of the case\" and that one must appeal against the expert report \"only together with the sentence.\" In other words, according to Yuri Savenko, all professional errors and omissions are presented as untouchable by virtue of the fact that they were infiltrated into the sentence. That is cynicism of administrative resources, cynicism of power, he says.\n\nThe draft of the application to the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation was considered in the paper \"Current legal issues relevant to forensic-psychiatric expert evaluation\" by Elena Shchukina and Sergei Shishkov focusing on the inadmissibility of appealing against the expert report without regard for the scope of the evaluated case. While talking about appealing against \"the reports\", the authors of the paper, according to lawyer Dmitry Bartenev, mistakenly identify the reports with actions of the experts (or an expert institution) and justify the impossibility of the \"parallel\" examination and evaluation of the actions of the experts without regard for the scope of the evaluated case. Such a conclusion made by the authors appears clearly erroneous because abuse by the experts of rights and legitimate interests of citizens including trial participants, of course, may be a subject for a separate appeal.\n\nAccording to the warning made in 2010 by Yuri Savenko at the same Congress, prof. Anatoly Smulevich, author of the monographs \"Problema Paranoyi\" (\"The Problem of Paranoia\") (1972) and \"Maloprogredientnaya Shizofreniya\" (\"Continuous Sluggish Schizophrenia\") (1987), which had contributed to the hyperdiagnosis of \"sluggish schizophrenia\", again began to play the same role he played before. Recently, under his influence therapists began to widely use antidepressants and antipsychotics but often in inadequate cases and in inappropriate doses, without consulting psychiatrists. This situation has opened up a huge new market for pharmaceutical firms, with their unlimited capabilities, and the flow of the mentally ill to internists. Smulevich bases the diagnosis of continuous sluggish schizophrenia, in particular, on appearance and lifestyle and stresses that the forefront in the picture of negative changes is given to the contrast between retaining mental activity (and sometimes quite high capacity for work) and mannerism, unusualness of one's appearance and entire lifestyle.\n\nAccording to the commentary by the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia on the 2007 text by Vladimir Rotstein, a doctrinist of Snezhnevsky's school, there are sufficient patients with delusion of reformism in psychiatric inpatient facilities for involuntary treatment. In 2012, delusion of reformism was mentioned as a symptom of mental disorder in \"Psychiatry. National Manual\" edited by Tatyana Dmitrieva, Valery Krasnov, Nikolai Neznanov, Valentin Semke, and Alexander Tiganov. In the same year, Vladimir Pashkovsky in his paper reported that he diagnosed 4.7 percent of 300 patients with delusion of reform. As Russian sociologist Alexander Tarasov notes, you will be treated in a hospital so that you and all your acquaintances get to learn forever that only such people as Anatoly Chubais or German Gref can be occupied with reforming in our country; and you are suffering from \"syndrome of litigiousness\" if in addition you wrote to the capital city complaints, which can be written only by a reviewing authority or lawyer.\n\nAccording to Doctor of Legal Sciences Vladimir Ovchinsky, regional differences in forensic psychiatric expert reports are striking. For example, in some regions of Russia, 8 or 9 percent of all examinees are pronounced sane; in other regions up to 75 percent of all examinees are pronounced sane. In some regions less than 2 percent of examinees are declared schizophrenics; in other regions up to 80 percent of examinees are declared schizophrenics.\n\nIn April 1995, the State Duma considered the first draft of a law that would have established a State Medical Commission with a psychiatrist to certify the competence of the President, the Prime Minister, and high federal political officials to fulfill the responsibilities of their positions. In 2002, Ukrainian psychiatrist Ada Korotenko stated that today the question was raised about the use of psychiatry to settle political accounts and establish psychiatric control over people competing for power in the country. Obviously, one will find supporters of the feasibility of such a filter, she said, though is it worthwhile to substitute experts' medical reports for elections? In 2003, the suggestion of using psychiatry to prevent and dismiss officials from their positions was supported by Alexander Podrabinek, author of the book \"Punitive Medicine\", a 265-page monograph covering political abuses of psychiatry in the Soviet Union. He suggested that people who seek high positions or run for the legislature should bring from the psychiatric dispensary a reference that they are not on the psychiatric registry and should be subjected to psychiatric examination in the event of inappropriate behavior. Concerned about the problem, authorities ruled that the Russian Mental Health Law should not be applied to senior officials and the judiciary on the ground that they are vested with parliamentary or judicial immunity. A psychiatrist who violates this rule can be deprived of his diploma and sentenced to imprisonment. In 2011, Russian psychiatrists again tried to promote the idea that one's marked aspiration in itself for power can be referred to psychopathic symptoms and that there are statistics about 60 percent of current leaders of states suffering from various forms of mental abnormalities.\n\nThe evidence for the misuse of psychiatry for political purposes in the Soviet Union was documented in a number of articles and books. Several national psychiatric associations examined and acted upon this documentation.\n\nThe widely known sources including published and written memoirs by victims of psychiatric arbitrariness convey moral and physical sufferings experienced by the victims in special psychiatric hospitals of the USSR.\n\nIn August 1969, Natalya Gorbanevskaya completed \"Noon\" (\"Полдень\"), her book about the case of the 25 August 1968 Demonstration on Red Square and began circulating it in samizdat. It was translated into English and published under the title \"Red Square at Noon\". Parts of the book describe Special Psychiatric Hospitals and psychiatric examinations of dissidents. The book includes \"On Special Psychiatric Hospitals\", an article written by Pyotr Grigorenko in 1968.\n\nIn 1971, twin brothers Zhores Medvedev and Roy Medvedev published in London their joint account of Zhores' incarceration in a psychiatric hospital and the Soviet practice of diagnosing political oppositionists as the mentally ill in London, in both English \"A Question of Madness: Repression by Psychiatry in the Soviet Union\" and Russian (\"Who is Mad?\" \"Кто сумасшедший\") editions.\n\nYury Maltsev's \"Report from a Madhouse\", his memoirs in Russian (\"Репортаж и сумасшедшего дома\"), were issued by the New York-based \"Novy zhurnal\" publishing house in 1974.\n\n1975 saw the article \"My Five Years in Mental Hospitals\" by Viktor Fainberg, who had emigrated to France the previous year after four years in the Leningrad Special Psychiatric Hospital.\n\nIn 1976, Viktor Nekipelov published in samizdat his book \"Institute of Fools: Notes on the Serbsky Institute\" documenting his personal experiences during two months' examination at the Serbsky Institute in Moscow. In 1980, the book was translated and published in English. The book was first published in Russia in 2005.\n\nVarious documents and reports were published in the \"Information Bulletin\" of the Working Commission on the Abuse of Psychiatry For Political Purposes, and circulated in the samizdat periodical \"Chronicle of Current Events.\" Other sources were documents by the Moscow Helsinki Group and in books by Alexander Podrabinek (\"Punitive Medicine\", 1979) Anatoly Prokopenko (\"Mad Psychiatry\", 1997, \"Безумная психитрия\") by and Vladimir Bukovsky (\"Judgment in Moscow\", 1994). To these may be added \"Soviet psychiatry – fallacies and fantasy\" by Ada Korotenko and Natalia Alikina (\"Советская психиатрия. Заблуждения и умысел\") and \"Executed by Madness\", 1971 (\"Казнимые сумасшествием\").\n\nIn 1972, 1975, 1976, 1984, and 1988 the United States Government Printing Office published documents on political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union .\n\nFrom 1987 to 1991, the International Association on the Political Use of Psychiatry (IAPUP) published forty-two volumes of \"Documents on the Political Abuse of Psychiatry in the USSR\". Today these are preserved by the Columbia University Libraries in the archival collection entitled \"Human\nRights Watch Records: Helsinki Watch, 1952–2003, Series VII: Chris\nPanico Files, 1979–1992, USSR, Psychiatry, International Association on\nthe Political Use of Psychiatry\", Box 16, Folder 5–8 (English version) and Box 16, Folder 9–11 (Russian version).\n\nIn 1992, the British Medical Association published certain some documents on the subject in \"Medicine Betrayed: The Participation of Doctors in Human Rights Abuses\".\n\nIn 1978, the book \"I Vozvrashchaetsa Veter...\" (\"And the Wind Returns...\") by Vladimir Bukovsky, describing the dissident movement, their struggle or freedom, practices of dealing with dissenters, and dozen years spent by Bukovsky in Soviet labor camps, prisons and psychiatric hospitals, was published and later translated into English under the title \"To Build a Castle: My Life as a Dissenter\".\n\nIn 1979, Leonid Plyushch published his book \"Na Karnavale Istorii\" (\"At History's Сarnival\") in which he described how he and other dissidents were committed to psychiatric hospitals. The same year, the book was translated into English under the title \"History's Carnival: A Dissident's Autobiography\".\n\nIn 1980, the book by Yuri Belov \"Razmyshlenia ne tolko o Sychovke: Roslavl 1978\" (\"Reflections not only on Sychovka: Roslavl 1978\") was published.\n\nIn 1981, Pyotr Grigorenko published his memoirs \"V Podpolye Mozhno Vstretit Tolko Krys\" (\"In Underground One Can Meet Only Rats\"), which included the story of his psychiatric examinations and hospitalizations. In 1982, the book was translated into English under the title \"Memoirs\".\n\nIn 1982, Soviet philosopher Pyotr Abovin-Yegides published his article \"Paralogizmy politseyskoy psikhiatrii i ikh sootnoshenie s meditsinskoy etikoy (Paralogisms of police psychiatry and their relation to medical ethics).\"\n\nIn 1983, Evgeny Nikolaev's book \"Predavshie Gippokrata\" (\"Betrayers of Hippocrates\"), when translated from Russian into German under the title \"Gehirnwäsche in Moskau\" (\"Brainwashing in Moscow\"), first came out in München and told about psychiatric detention of its author for political reasons. In 1984, the book under its original title was first published in Russian which the book had originally been written in.\n\nIn 1983, Yuri Vetokhin published his memoirs \"Sklonen k Pobegu\" translated into English under the title \"Inclined to Escape\" in 1986.\n\nIn 1987, Robert van Voren published his book \"Koryagin: A man Struggling for Human Dignity\" telling about psychiatrist Anatoly Koryagin who resisted political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1988, \"Reportazh iz Niotkuda\" (\"Reportage from Nowhere\") by Viktor Rafalsky was published. In the publication, he described his confinement in Soviet psychiatric hospitals.\n\nIn 1993, Valeriya Novodvorskaya published her collection of writings \"Po Tu Storonu Otchayaniya\" (\"Beyond Despair\") in which her experience in the prison psychiatric hospital in Kazan was described.\n\nIn 1996, Vladimir Bukovsky published his book \"Moskovsky Protsess\" (\"Moscow trial\")\ncontaining an account of developing the punitive psychiatry based on\ndocuments that were being submitted to and considered by the Politburo of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. The book was translated into English in 1998 under the title \"Reckoning With Moscow: A Nuremberg Trial for Soviet Agents and Western Fellow Travelers\".\n\nIn 2001, Nikolay Kupriyanov published his book \"GULAG-2-SN\" which has a foreword by Anatoly Sobchak, covers repressive psychiatry in Soviet Army, and tells about humiliations Kupriyanov underwent in the psychiatric departments of the Northern Fleet hospital and the Kirov Military Medical Academy.\n\nIn 2002, St. Petersburg forensic psychiatrist Vladimir Pshizov published his book \"Sindrom Zamknutogo Prostranstva\" (\"Syndrome of Closed Space\") describing the hospitalization of Viktor Fainberg.\n\nIn 2003, the book \"Moyа Sudba i Moyа Borba protiv Psikhiatrov\" (\"My Destiny and My Struggle against Psychiatrists\") was published by Anatoly Serov, who worked as a lead design engineer before he was committed to a psychiatric hospital.\n\nIn 2010, Alexander Shatravka published his book \"Pobeg iz Raya\" (\"Escape from Paradise\") in which he described how he and his companions were caught after they illegally crossed the border between Finland and the Soviet Union to escape from the latter country and, as a result, were confined to Soviet psychiatric hospitals and prisons. In his book, he also described methods of brutal treatment of prisoners in the institutions.\n\nIn 2012, Soviet dissident and believer Vladimir Khailo’s wife published her book \"Subjected to Intense Persecution\".\n\n2014 saw the book \"Zha Zholtoy Stenoy\" (\"Behind the Yellow Wall\") by Alexander Avgust, a former inmate of Soviet psychiatric hospitals who in his book describes the wider circle of their inhabitants than literature on the issue usually does.\n\nIn 1965, Valery Tarsis published in the West his book \"Ward 7: An Autobiographical Novel\"\nbased upon his own experiences in 1963–1964 when he was detained in the\nMoscow Kashchenko psychiatric hospital for political reasons. The book was the first literary work to deal with the Soviet authorities' abuse of psychiatry.\n\nIn 1968, the Russian poet Joseph Brodsky wrote \"Gorbunov and Gorchakov\",\na forty-page long poem in thirteen cantos consisting of lengthy\nconversations between two patients in a Soviet psychiatric prison as\nwell as between each of them separately and the interrogating\npsychiatrists. The topics vary from the taste of the cabbage served for supper to the meaning of life and Russia's destiny. The poem was translated into English by Harry Thomas. The experience underlying \"Gorbunov and Gorchakov\" was formed by two stints of Brodsky at psychiatric establishments.\n\nIn 1977, British playwright Tom Stoppard wrote the play \"Every Good Boy Deserves Favour\" that criticized the Soviet practice of treating political dissidence as a form of mental illness. The play is dedicated to Viktor Fainberg and Vladimir Bukovsky, two Soviet dissidents expelled to the West.\n\nIn the 1983 novel \"Firefox Down\" by Craig Thomas,\ncaptured American pilot Mitchell Gant is imprisoned in a KGB\npsychiatric clinic \"associated with the Serbsky Institute\", where he is\ndrugged and interrogated to force him to reveal the location of the Firefox aircraft, which he has stolen and flown out of Russia.\n\nThe use of psychiatry for political purposes in the USSR was discussed in several television documentaries:\n\nArchival sources\n\nGovernment publications and official reports\n\nBooks\n\nJournal articles and book chapters\n\nNewspapers\n\nWebsites\n\nAudio-visual material\n\n"}
{"id": "15376795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15376795", "title": "Polyvagal theory", "text": "Polyvagal theory\n\nThe Polyvagal theory (gr. 'polus', “‘many’” + 'vagal', \"'vagus nerve'\") specifies two functionally distinct branches of the vagus, or tenth cranial nerve. It serves to identify the relationship between visceral experiences and the vagus nerve's parasympathetic control of the heart, lungs, and digestive tract. The theory was introduced in 1994 by Dr. Stephen Porges, director of the Brain-Body Center at the University of Illinois at Chicago. According to the theory and its subsequent proof, the automatic nervous system is interconnected with and sensitive to influences that flow from the body toward the brain, called afferent influences. This effect has been observed and demonstrated by adaptive reactivity dependent on the neural circuits' phylogenical development. It builds on the study of what Charles Darwin referred to as the “pneumogastric nerve.\" The polyvagal theory claims that humans have physical reactions, such as cardiac and digestive changes, associated with their facial expressions. Porges argues this theory with observations from both evolutionary biology and neurology.\n\nThe branches of the vagal nerve serve different evolutionary stress responses in mammals: the more primitive branch elicits immobilization behaviors (e.g., feigning death), whereas the more evolved branch is linked to social communication and self-soothing behaviors. These functions follow a phylogenetic hierarchy, where the most primitive systems are activated only when the more evolved functions fail. These neural pathways regulate autonomic state and the expression of emotional and social behavior. Thus, according to this theory, physiological state dictates the range of behavior and psychological experience. \nPolyvagal theory has many implications for the study of stress, emotion, and social behavior, which has traditionally utilized more peripheral indices of arousal, such as heart rate and cortisol level. The measurement of vagal tone in humans has become a novel index of stress vulnerability and reactivity in many studies of populations with affective disorders, such as children with behavioral problems and those suffering from borderline personality disorder.\n\nThe vagus nerve is a primary component of the autonomic nervous system. Polyvagal theory outlines the structure and function of the two distinct branches of the vagus, both of which originate in the medulla. More specifically, each branch is associated with a different adaptive behavioral strategy, both of which are inhibitory in nature via the parasympathetic nervous system. The vagal system is in opposition to the sympathetic-adrenal system, which is involved in mobilization behaviors. According to polyvagal theory, these opposing systems are phylogenetically arranged.\n\nThe dorsal branch of the vagus originates in the dorsal motor nucleus and is considered the phylogenetically older branch. This branch is unmyelinated and exists in most vertebrates. This branch is also known as the “vegetative vagus” because it is associated with primal survival strategies of primitive vertebrates, reptiles, and amphibians. Under great stress, these animals freeze when threatened, conserving their metabolic resources.\n\nThe dorsal vagal complex (DVC) provides primary control of subdiaphragmatic visceral organs, such as the digestive tract. Under normal conditions, the DVC maintains regulation of these digestive processes. However, prolonged disinhibition can be lethal for mammals, as it results in apnea and bradycardia.\n\nWith increased neural complexity seen in mammals (due to phylogenetic development) evolved a more sophisticated system to enrich behavioral and affective responses to an increasingly complex environment. The ventral branch of the vagus originates in the nucleus ambiguus and is myelinated to provide more control and speed in responding. This branch is also known as the “smart vagus” because it is associated with the regulation of sympathetic “fight or flight” behaviors in the service of social affiliative behaviors. These behaviors include social communication and self-soothing and calming. In other words, this branch of the vagus can inhibit or disinhibit defensive limbic circuits, depending on the situation.\nThe VVC provides primary control of supradiaphragmatic visceral organs, such as the esophagus, bronchi, pharynx, and larynx. The VVC also exerts important influence on the heart. When vagal tone to the heart’s pacemaker is high, a baseline or resting heart rate is produced. In other words, the vagus acts as a restraint, or brake, limiting heart rate. However, when vagal tone is removed, there is little inhibition to the pacemaker, and so rapid mobilization (“fight/flight”) can be activated in times of stress, but without having to engage the sympathetic-adrenal system, as activation comes at a severe biological cost.\n\nIn order to maintain homeostasis, the central nervous system responds constantly, via neural feedback, to environmental cues. Stressful events disrupt the rhythmic structure of autonomic states, and subsequently, behaviors. Since the vagus plays such an integral role in the peripheral nervous system via regulation of heart rate, it follows that the amplitude of respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) is a good index of parasympathetic nervous system activity via the cardiac vagus. That is, RSA is a measurable, noninvasive way to see how the vagus modulates heart rate activity in response to stress. This method is useful to measure individual differences in stress reactivity.\n\nRSA is the widely used measure of the amplitude of heart rate rhythm associated with rate of spontaneous breathing. Research has shown that amplitude of RSA is an accurate indicator of the efferent influence of the vagus on the heart. Since inhibitory effects of the VVC branch of the vagus allow for a wide range of adaptive, prosocial behaviors, it has been theorized that individuals with greater vagal tone are able to exhibit a greater range of such behaviors. On the other hand, decreased vagal tone is associated with illnesses and medical complications that compromise the CNS. These complications may reduce one's capacity to respond to stress appropriately.\n\nVagal tone has been used in medical and psychological research to better understand the physiological underpinnings of various disorders.\n\nHealthy human fetuses have a high variability in heart rate, which is mediated by the vagus. On the other hand, heart rate decelerations, which are also mediated by the vagus, are a sign of fetal distress. More specifically, prolonged withdrawal of vagal influence on the heart creates a physiological vulnerability to the influence of the Dorsal Vagal Control, which in turn produces bradycardia (very low heart rate). However, the onset of this deceleration is commonly preceded by transitory tachycardia, which is reflective of the immediate effects of Ventral Vagal Control withdrawal.\n\nAs described by Bessel van der Kolk, professor of psychiatry at the Boston University School of Medicine: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "23004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23004", "title": "Precedent", "text": "Precedent\n\nIn common law legal systems, precedent is a principle or rule established in a previous legal case that is either binding on or persuasive for a court or other tribunal when deciding subsequent cases with similar issues or facts. Common-law legal systems place great value on deciding cases according to consistent principled rules, so that similar facts will yield similar and predictable outcomes, and observance of precedent is the mechanism by which that goal is attained. The principle by which judges are bound to precedents is known as stare decisis. Common-law precedent is a third kind of law, on equal footing with statutory law (that is, statutes and codes enacted by legislative bodies) and delegated legislation (in U.K. parlance) or regulatory law (in U.S. parlance) (that is, regulations promulgated by executive branch agencies).\n\nCase law, in common-law jurisdictions, is the set of decisions of adjudicatory tribunals or other rulings that can be cited as precedent. In most countries, including most European countries, the term is applied to any set of rulings on law, which is guided by previous rulings, for example, previous decisions of a government agency.\n\nEssential to the development of case law is the publication and indexing of decisions for use by lawyers, courts, and the general public, in the form of law reports. While all decisions are precedent (though at varying levels of authority as discussed throughout this article), some become \"leading cases\" or \"landmark decisions\" that are cited especially often.\n\nIn civil law systems, past decisions may influence future decisions, even if they do not have the precedential, binding effect that they have in common law decision-making.\n\n\"Stare decisis\" () is a legal principle by which judges are obligated to respect the precedent established by prior decisions. The words originate from the phrasing of the principle in the Latin maxim \"Stare decisis et non quieta movere\": \"to stand by decisions and not disturb the undisturbed\". In a legal context, this means that courts should abide by precedent and not disturb settled matters. The principle can be divided into two components:\n\n\nThe second principle, regarding persuasive precedent, reflects the broad precedent guidance a court may draw upon in reaching all of its decisions.\n\nIn the common-law tradition, courts decide the law applicable to a case by interpreting statutes and applying precedent, which record how and why prior cases have been decided. Unlike most civil-law systems, common-law systems follow the doctrine of \"stare decisis\", by which most courts are bound by their own previous decisions in similar cases, and all lower courts should make decisions consistent with previous decisions of higher courts. For example in England, the High Court and the Court of Appeal are each bound by their own previous decisions, but the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom is able to deviate from its earlier decisions, although in practice it rarely does so.\n\nGenerally speaking, higher courts do not have direct oversight over day-to-day proceedings in lower courts, in that they cannot reach out on their own initiative (\"sua sponte\") at any time to reverse or overrule decisions of the lower courts. Normally, the burden rests with litigants to appeal rulings (including those in clear violation of established case law) to the higher courts. If a judge acts against precedent and the case is not appealed, the decision will stand.\n\nA lower court may not rule against a binding precedent, even if the lower court feels that the precedent is unjust; the lower court may only express the hope that a higher court or the legislature will reform the rule in question. If the court believes that developments or trends in legal reasoning render the precedent unhelpful, and wishes to evade it and help the law evolve, the court may either hold that the precedent is inconsistent with subsequent authority, or that the precedent should be \"distinguished: by some material difference between the facts of the cases. If that decision goes to appeal, the appellate court will have the opportunity to review both the precedent and the case under appeal, perhaps overruling the previous case law by setting a new precedent of higher authority. This may happen several times as the case works its way through successive appeals. Lord Denning, first of the High Court of Justice, later of the Court of Appeal, provided a famous example of this evolutionary process in his development of the concept of estoppel starting in the \"High Trees\" case: \"Central London Property Trust Ltd v. High Trees House Ltd\" [1947] K.B. 130.\n\nJudges may refer to various types of persuasive authority to reach a decision in a case. Widely cited nonbinding sources include legal encyclopedias such as \"Corpus Juris Secundum\" and \"Halsbury's Laws of England\", or the published work of the Law Commission or the American Law Institute. Some bodies are given statutory powers to issue guidance with persuasive authority or similar statutory effect, such as the Highway Code.\n\nIn federal or multijurisdictional law systems, conflicts may exist between the various lower appellate courts. Sometimes these differences may not be resolved and distinguishing how the law is applied in one district, province, division or appellate department may be necessary. Usually, only an appeal accepted by the court of last resort will resolve such differences, and for many reasons, such appeals are often not granted.\n\nAny court may seek to distinguish its present case from that of a binding precedent, to reach a different conclusion. The validity of such a distinction may or may not be accepted on appeal. An appellate court may also propound an entirely new and different analysis from that of junior courts, and may or may not be bound by its own previous decisions, or in any case may distinguish the decisions based on significant differences in the facts applicable to each case. Or, a court may view the matter before it as one of \"first impression\", not governed by any controlling precedent.\n\nWhen various members of a multi-judge court write separate opinions, the reasoning may differ; only the \"ratio decidendi\" of the majority becomes binding precedent. For example, if a 12-member court splits 5-2-3-2 in four different opinions on several different issues, whatever reasoning commands seven votes on each specific issue, and the seven-judge majorities may differ issue-to-issue. All may be cited as persuasive (though of course opinions that concur in the majority result are more persuasive than dissents).\n\nQuite apart from the rules of precedent, the weight actually given to any reported opinion may depend on the reputation of both the court and the judges with respect to the specific issue. For example, in the United States, the Second Circuit (New York and surrounding states) is especially respected in commercial and securities law, the Seventh Circuit (in Chicago), especially Judge Posner, is highly regarded on antitrust, and the District of Columbia Circuit is highly regarded on administrative law,\n\nGenerally, a common law court system has trial courts, intermediate appellate courts and a supreme court. The inferior courts conduct almost all trial proceedings. The inferior courts are bound to obey precedent established by the appellate court for their jurisdiction, and all supreme court precedent.\n\nThe Supreme Court of California's explanation of this principle is that\n\nAn Intermediate state appellate court is generally bound to follow the decisions of the highest court of that state.\n\nThe application of the doctrine of \"stare decisis\" from a superior court to an inferior court is sometimes called \"vertical stare decisis\".\n\nThe idea that a judge is bound by (or at least should respect) decisions of earlier judges of similar or coordinate level is called horizontal \"stare decisis\".\n\nIn the United States federal court system, the intermediate appellate courts are divided into thirteen \"circuits,\" each covering some range of territory ranging in size from the District of Columbia alone up to seven states. Each panel of judges on the court of appeals for a circuit is bound to obey the prior appellate decisions of the same circuit. Precedent of a United States court of appeals may be overruled only by the court \"en banc,\" that is, a session of all the active appellate judges of the circuit, or by the United States Supreme Court, not simply by a different three-judge panel.\n\nWhen a court binds itself, this application of the doctrine of precedent is sometimes called \"horizontal stare decisis\". The state of New York has a similar appellate structure as it is divided into four appellate departments supervised by the final New York Court of Appeals. Decisions of one appellate department are not binding upon another, and in some cases the departments differ considerably on interpretations of law.\n\nIn federal systems the division between federal and state law may result in complex interactions. In the United States, state courts are not considered inferior to federal courts but rather constitute a parallel court system.\n\n\nIn practice, however, judges in one system will almost always choose to follow relevant case law in the other system to prevent divergent results and to minimize forum shopping.\n\nPrecedent that must be applied or followed is known as \"binding precedent\" (alternately \"metaphorically precedent\", \"mandatory\" or \"binding authority\", etc.). Under the doctrine of \"stare decisis\", a lower court must honor findings of law made by a higher court that is within the appeals path of cases the court hears. In state and federal courts in the United States of America, jurisdiction is often divided geographically among local trial courts, several of which fall under the territory of a regional appeals court. All appellate courts fall under a highest court (sometimes but not always called a \"supreme court\"). By definition, decisions of lower courts are not binding on courts higher in the system, nor are appeals court decisions binding on local courts that fall under a different appeals court. Further, courts must follow their own proclamations of law made earlier on other cases, and honor rulings made by other courts in disputes among the parties before them pertaining to the same pattern of facts or events, unless they have a strong reason to change these rulings (see Law of the case re: a court's previous holding being binding precedent for that court).\n\nIn law, a binding precedent (also known as a mandatory precedent or binding authority) is a precedent which must be followed by all lower courts under common law legal systems. In English law it is usually created by the decision of a higher court, such as the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom, which took over the judicial functions of the House of Lords in 2009. In Civil law and pluralist systems precedent is not binding but case law is taken into account by the courts.\n\nBinding precedent relies on the legal principle of \"stare decisis\". \"Stare decisis\" means to stand by things decided. It ensures certainty and consistency in the application of law. Existing binding precedent from past cases are applied in principle to new situations by analogy.\n\nOne law professor has described mandatory precedent as follows:\n\nIn extraordinary circumstances a higher court may overturn or overrule mandatory precedent, but will often attempt to distinguish the precedent before overturning it, thereby limiting the scope of the precedent.\n\nUnder the U.S. legal system, courts are set up in a hierarchy. At the top of the federal or national system is the Supreme Court, and underneath are lower federal courts. The state court systems have hierarchy structures similar to that of the federal system.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court has final authority on questions about the meaning of federal law, including the U.S. Constitution. For example, when the Supreme Court says that the First Amendment applies in a specific way to suits for slander, then every court is bound by that precedent in its interpretation of the First Amendment as it applies to suits for slander. If a lower court judge disagrees with a higher court precedent on what the First Amendment should mean, the lower court judge must rule according to the binding precedent. Until the higher court changes the ruling (or the law itself is changed), the binding precedent is authoritative on the meaning of the law.\n\nLower courts are bound by the precedent set by higher courts within their region. Thus, a federal district court that falls within the geographic boundaries of the Third Circuit Court of Appeals (the mid-level appeals court that hears appeals from district court decisions from Delaware, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and the Virgin Islands) is bound by rulings of the Third Circuit Court, but not by rulings in the Ninth Circuit (Alaska, Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Northern Mariana Islands, Oregon, and Washington), since the Circuit Courts of Appeals have jurisdiction defined by geography. The Circuit Courts of Appeals can interpret the law how they want, so long as there is no binding Supreme Court precedent. One of the common reasons the Supreme Court grants certiorari (that is, they agree to hear a case) is if there is a conflict among the circuit courts as to the meaning of a federal law.\n\nThere are three elements needed for a precedent to work. Firstly, the hierarchy of the courts needs to be accepted, and an efficient system of law reporting. 'A balance must be struck between the need on one side for the legal certainty resulting from the binding effect of previous decisions, and on the other side the avoidance of undue restriction on the proper development of the law (1966 Practice Statement (Judicial Precedent) by Lord Gardiner L.C.)'.\n\nJudges are bound by the law of binding precedent in England and Wales and other common law jurisdictions. This is a distinctive feature of the English legal system. In Scotland and many countries throughout the world, particularly in mainland Europe, civil law means that judges take case law into account in a similar way, but are not obliged to do so and are required to consider the precedent in terms of principle. Their fellow judges' decisions may be persuasive but are not binding. Under the English legal system, judges are not necessarily entitled to make their own decisions about the development or interpretations of the law. They may be bound by a decision reached in a previous case. Two facts are crucial to determining whether a precedent is binding:\n\nIn a conflict of laws situation, jus cogens erga omnes norms and principles of the common law such as in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to a varying degree in different jurisdictions, are deemed overriding which means they are used to \"read down\" legislation, that is giving them a particular purposive interpretation, for example applying European Court of Human Rights jurisprudence of courts (case law).\n\n\"Super \"stare decisis\"\" is a term used for important precedent that is resistant or immune from being overturned, without regard to whether correctly decided in the first place. It may be viewed as one extreme in a range of precedential power, or alternatively, to express a belief, or a critique of that belief, that some decisions should not be overturned.\n\nIn 1976, Richard Posner and William Landes coined the term \"super-precedent\" in an article they wrote about testing theories of precedent by counting citations. Posner and Landes used this term to describe the influential effect of a cited decision. The term \"super-precedent\" later became associated with different issue: the difficulty of overturning a decision. In 1992, Rutgers professor Earl Maltz criticized the Supreme Court's decision in \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" for endorsing the idea that if one side can take control of the Court on an issue of major national importance (as in \"Roe v. Wade\"), that side can protect its position from being reversed \"by a kind of super-stare decisis\". The controversial idea that some decisions are virtually immune from being overturned, regardless of whether they were decided correctly in the first place, is the idea to which the term \"super-\"stare decisis\"\" now usually refers.\n\nThe concept of super-\"stare decisis\" (or \"super-precedent\") was mentioned during the interrogations of Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Samuel Alito before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Prior to the commencement of the Roberts hearings, the chair of that committee, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, wrote an op/ed in \"The New York Times\" referring to \"Roe\" as a \"super-precedent\". He revisited this concept during the hearings, but neither Roberts nor Alito endorsed the term or the concept.\n\nPersuasive precedent (also persuasive authority) is precedent or other legal writing that is not binding precedent but that is useful or relevant and that may guide the judge in making the decision in a current case. Persuasive precedent includes cases decided by lower courts, by peer or higher courts from other geographic jurisdictions, cases made in other parallel systems (for example, military courts, administrative courts, indigenous/tribal courts, state courts versus federal courts in the United States), statements made in dicta, treatises or academic law reviews, and in some exceptional circumstances, cases of other nations, treaties, world judicial bodies, etc.\n\nIn a \"case of first impression\", courts often rely on persuasive precedent from courts in other jurisdictions that have previously dealt with similar issues. Persuasive precedent may become binding through its adoption by a higher court.\n\nIn civil law and pluralist systems, as under Scots law, precedent is not binding but case law is taken into account by the courts.\n\nA lower court's opinion may be considered as persuasive authority if the judge believes they have applied the correct legal principle and reasoning.\n\nA court may consider the ruling of a higher court that is not binding. For example, a district court in the United States First Circuit could consider a ruling made by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit as persuasive authority.\n\nCourts may consider rulings made in other courts that are of equivalent authority in the legal system. For example, an appellate court for one district could consider a ruling issued by an appeals court in another district.\n\nCourts may consider \"obiter dicta\" in opinions of higher courts. Dicta of a higher court, though not binding, will often be persuasive to lower courts. The phrase \"obiter dicta\" is usually translated as \"other things said\", but due to the high number of judges and individual concurring opinions, it is often hard to distinguish from the \"ratio decidendi\" (reason for the decision). For these reasons, the obiter dicta may often be taken into consideration by a court. A litigant may also consider \"obiter dicta\" if a court has previously signaled that a particular legal argument is weak and may even warrant sanctions if repeated.\n\nA case decided by a multijudge panel could result in a split decision. While only the majority opinion is considered precedential, an outvoted judge can still publish a dissenting opinion. Common patterns for dissenting opinions include:\nA judge in a subsequent case, particularly in a different jurisdiction, could find the dissenting judge's reasoning persuasive. In the jurisdiction of the original decision, however, a judge should only overturn the holding of a court lower or equivalent in the hierarchy. A district court, for example, could not rely on a Supreme Court dissent as a basis to depart from the reasoning of the majority opinion. However, lower courts occasionally cite dissents, either for a limiting principle on the majority, or for propositions that are not stated in the majority opinion and not inconsistent with that majority, or to explain a disagreement with the majority and to urge reform (while following the majority in the outcome).\n\nCourts may consider the writings of eminent legal scholars in treatises, restatements of the law, and law reviews. The extent to which judges find these types of writings persuasive will vary widely with elements such as the reputation of the author and the relevance of the argument.\n\nThe courts of England and Wales are free to consider decisions of other jurisdictions, and give them whatever persuasive weight the English court sees fit, even though these other decisions are not binding precedent. Jurisdictions that are closer to modern English common law are more likely to be given persuasive weight (for example Commonwealth states such as Canada, Australia, or New Zealand). Persuasive weight might be given to other common law courts, such as from the United States, most often where the American courts have been particularly innovative, e.g. in product liability and certain areas of contract law.\n\nIn the United States, in the late 20th and early 21st centuries, the concept of a U.S. court considering foreign law or precedent has been considered controversial by some parties. The Supreme Court splits on this issue. This critique is recent, as in the early history of the United States, citation of English authority was ubiquitous. One of the first acts of many of the new state legislatures was to adopt the body of English common law into the law of the state. See here. Citation to English cases was common through the 19th and well into the 20th centuries. Even in the late 20th and early 21st centuries, it is relatively uncontroversial for American state courts to rely on English decisions for matters of pure common (i.e. judge-made) law. \n\nWithin the federal legal systems of several common-law countries, and most especially the United States, it is relatively common for the distinct lower-level judicial systems (e.g. state courts in the United States and Australia, provincial courts in Canada) to regard the decisions of other jurisdictions within the same country as persuasive precedent. Particularly in the United States, the adoption of a legal doctrine by a large number of other state judiciaries is regarded as highly persuasive evidence that such doctrine is preferred. A good example is the adoption in Tennessee of comparative negligence (replacing contributory negligence as a complete bar to recovery) by the 1992 Tennessee Supreme Court decision \"McIntyre v. Balentine\" (by this point all US jurisdictions save Tennessee, five other states, and the District of Columbia had adopted comparative negligence schemes). Moreover, in American law, the \"Erie\" doctrine requires federal courts sitting in diversity actions to apply state substantive law, but in a manner consistent with how the court believes the state's highest court would rule in that case. Since such decisions are not binding on state courts, but are often very well-reasoned and useful, state courts cite federal interpretations of state law fairly often as persuasive precedent, although it is also fairly common for a state high court to reject a federal court's interpretation of its jurisprudence.\n\nNonpublication of opinions, or unpublished opinions, are those decisions of courts that are not available for citation as precedent because the judges making the opinion deem the cases as having less precedential value. Selective publication is the legal process which a judge or justices of a court decide whether a decision is to be or not published in a reporter. \"Unpublished\" federal appellate decisions are published in the Federal Appendix. Depublication is the power of a court to make a previously published order or opinion unpublished.\n\nLitigation that is settled out of court generates no written decision, thus has no precedential effect. As one practical effect, the U.S. Department of Justice settles many cases against the federal government simply to avoid creating adverse precedent.\n\nSeveral rules may cause a decision to apply as narrow \"precedent\" to preclude future legal positions of the specific parties to a case, even if a decision is non-precedential with respect to all other parties.\n\nOnce a case is decided, the same plaintiff cannot sue the same defendant again on any claim arising out of the same facts. The law requires plaintiffs to put all issues on the table in a single case, not split the case. For example, in a case of an auto accident, the plaintiff cannot sue first for property damage, and then personal injury in a separate case. This is called \"res judicata\" or claim preclusion (\"'Res judicata'\" is the traditional name going back centuries; the name shifted to \"claim preclusion\" in the United States over the late 20th century). Claim preclusion applies regardless of the plaintiff wins or loses the earlier case, even if the later case raises a different legal theory, even the second claim is unknown at the time of the first case. Exceptions are extremely limited, for example if the two claims for relief must necessarily be brought in different courts (for example, one claim might be exclusively federal, and the other exclusively state).\n\nOnce a case is finally decided, any issues decided in the previous case may be binding against the party who lost the issue in later cases, even in cases involving other parties. For example, if a first case decides that a party was negligent, then other plaintiffs may rely on that earlier determination in later cases, and need not reprove the issue of negligence. For another example, if a patent is shown to be invalid in a case against one accused infringer, that same patent is invalid against all other accused infringers—invalidity need not be reproven. Again, limits and exceptions on this principle exist. The principle is called collateral estoppel or issue preclusion.\n\nWithin a single case, once there's been a first appeal, both the lower court and the appellate court itself will not further review the same issue, and will not re-review an issue that could have been appealed in the first appeal. Exceptions are limited to three \"exceptional circumstances:\" (1) when substantially different evidence is raised at a subsequent trial, (2) when the law changes after the first appeal, for example by a decision of a higher court, or (3) when a decision is clearly erroneous and would result in a manifest injustice. This principle is called \"law of the case\".\n\nOn many questions, reasonable people may differ. When two of those people are judges, the tension among two lines of precedent may be resolved as follows.\n\nIf the two courts are in separate, parallel jurisdictions, there is no conflict, and two lines of precedent may persist. Courts in one jurisdiction are influenced by decisions in others, and notably better rules may be adopted over time.\n\nCourts try to formulate the common law as a \"seamless web\" so that principles in one area of the law apply to other areas. However, this principle does not apply uniformly. Thus, a word may have different definitions in different areas of the law, or different rules may apply so that a question has different answers in different legal contexts. Judges try to minimize these conflicts, but they arise from time to time, and under principles of 'stare decisis', may persist for some time.\n\nA matter of first impression (also known as an \"issue of first impression,\" \"case of first impression,\" or, in Latin, as \"primae impressionis\") is an issue where the parties disagree on what the applicable law is, and there is no prior binding authority, so that the matter has to be decided for the first time. A first impression case may be a first impression in only a particular jurisdiction.\n\nBy definition, a case of first impression cannot be decided by precedent. Since there is no precedent for the court to follow, the court uses the plain language and legislative history of any statute that must be interpreted, holdings of other jurisdictions, persuasive authority and analogies from prior rulings by other courts (which may be higher, peers, or lower courts in the hierarchy, or from other jurisdictions), commentaries and articles by legal scholars, and the court's own logic and sense of justice.\n\nThe different roles of case law in civil law and common law traditions create differences in the way that courts render decisions. Common law courts generally explain in detail the legal rationale behind their decisions, with citations of both legislation and previous relevant judgments, and often an exegesis of the wider legal principles. These are called \"ratio decidendi\" and constitute a precedent binding on other courts; further analyses not strictly necessary to the determination of the current case are called \"obiter dicta\", which have persuasive authority but are not technically binding. By contrast, decisions in civil law jurisdictions are generally very short, referring only to statutes. The reason for this difference is that these civil law jurisdictions apply legislative positivism — a form of extreme legal positivism — which holds that legislation is the only valid source of law because it has been voted on democratically; thus, it is not the judiciary's role to create law, but rather to interpret and apply statute, and therefore their decisions must reflect that.\n\n\"Stare decisis\" is not usually a doctrine used in civil law systems, because it violates the legislative positivist principle that only the legislature may make law. Instead, the civil law system relies on the doctrine of \"jurisprudence constante\", according to which if a court has adjudicated a consistent line of cases that arrive at the same holdings using sound reasoning, then the previous decisions are highly persuasive but not controlling on issues of law. This doctrine is similar to \"stare decisis\" insofar as it dictates that a court's decision must condone a cohesive and predictable result. In theory, lower courts are generally not bound by the precedents of higher courts. In practice, the need for predictability means that lower courts generally defer to the precedent of higher courts. As a result, the precedent of courts of last resort, such as the French Cassation Court and the Council of State, is recognized as being \"de facto\" binding on lower courts.\n\nThe doctrine of \"jurisprudence constante\" also influences how court decisions are structured. In general, court decisions of common law jurisdictions give a sufficient \"ratio decidendi\" as to guide future courts. The ratio is used to justify a court decision on the basis of previous case law as well as to make it easier to use the decision as a precedent for future cases. By contrast, court decisions in some civil law jurisdictions (most prominently France) tend to be extremely brief, mentioning only the relevant legislation and codal provisions and not going into the \"ratio decidendi\" in any great detail. This is the result of the legislative positivist view that the court is only interpreting the legislature's intent and therefore detailed exposition is unnecessary. Because of this, \"ratio decidendi\" is carried out by legal academics (doctrinal writers) who provide the explanations that in common law jurisdictions would be provided by the judges themselves.\n\nIn other civil law jurisdictions, such as the German-speaking countries, \"ratio decidendi\" tend to be much more developed than in France, and courts will frequently cite previous cases and doctrinal writers. However, some courts (such as German courts) have less emphasis on the particular facts of the case than common law courts, but have more emphasis on the discussion of various doctrinal arguments and on finding what the correct interpretation of the law is.\n\nThe mixed systems of the Nordic countries are sometimes considered a branch of the civil law, but they are sometimes counted as separate from the civil law tradition. In Sweden, for instance, case law arguably plays a more important role than in some of the continental civil law systems. The two highest courts, the Supreme Court (\"Högsta domstolen\") and the Supreme Administrative Court (\"Högsta förvaltningsdomstolen\"), have the right to set precedent which has persuasive authority on all future application of the law. Appellate courts, be they judicial (\"hovrätter\") or administrative (\"kammarrätter\"), may also issue decisions that act as guides for the application of the law, but these decisions are persuasive, not controlling, and may therefore be overturned by higher courts.\n\nSome mixed systems, such as Scots law in Scotland, South-African law, and the law of Quebec and Louisiana, do not fit into the civil vs. common law dichotomy because they mix portions of both. Such systems may have been heavily influenced by the common law tradition; however, their private law is firmly rooted in the civil law tradition. Because of their position between the two main systems of law, these types of legal systems are sometimes referred to as \"mixed\" systems of law. Louisiana courts, for instance, operate under both \"stare decisis\" and \"jurisprudence constante\". In South Africa, the precedent of higher courts is absolutely or fully binding on lower courts, whereas the precedent of lower courts only has persuasive authority on higher courts; horizontally, precedent is \"prima facie\" or presumptively binding between courts.\n\nLaw professors in common law traditions play a much smaller role in developing case law than professors in civil law traditions. Because court decisions in civil law traditions are brief and not amenable to establishing precedent, much of the exposition of the law in civil law traditions is done by academics rather than by judges; this is called doctrine and may be published in treatises or in journals such as \"Recueil Dalloz\" in France. Historically, common law courts relied little on legal scholarship; thus, at the turn of the twentieth century, it was very rare to see an academic writer quoted in a legal decision (except perhaps for the academic writings of prominent judges such as Coke and Blackstone). Today academic writers are often cited in legal argument and decisions as persuasive authority; often, they are cited when judges are attempting to implement reasoning that other courts have not yet adopted, or when the judge believes the academic's restatement of the law is more compelling than can be found in precedent. Thus common law systems are adopting one of the approaches long common in civil law jurisdictions.\n\nJustice Louis Brandeis, in a heavily footnoted dissent to \"Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co.\", , 405–411 (1932), explained (citations and quotations omitted):\n\nThe United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit has stated:\n\nThe United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit has stated:\n\nJustice McHugh of the High Court of Australia in relation to precedents remarked in \"Perre v Apand\":\n\nPrecedent viewed against passing time can serve to establish trends, thus indicating the next logical step in evolving interpretations of the law. For instance, if immigration has become more and more restricted under the law, then the next legal decision on that subject may serve to restrict it further still. The existence of submerged precedent (reasoned opinions not made available through conventional legal research sources) has been identified as a potentially distorting force in the evolution of law.\n\nScholars have recently attempted to apply network theory to precedent in order to establish which precedent is most important or authoritative, and how the court's interpretations and priorities have changed over time.\n\nEarly English common law did not have or require the \"stare decisis\" doctrine for a range of legal and technological reasons:\n\nThese features changed over time, opening the door to the doctrine of \"stare decisis\":\n\n\"Stare decisis\" applies to the holding of a case, rather than to obiter dicta (\"things said by the way\"). As the United States Supreme Court has put it: \"dicta may be followed if sufficiently persuasive but are not binding.\"\n\nIn the United States Supreme Court, the principle of stare decisis is most flexible in constitutional cases:\n\nFor example, in the years 1946–1992, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed itself in about 130 cases. The U.S. Supreme Court has further explained as follows:\n\nThe United States Supreme Court has stated that where a court gives multiple reasons for a given result, each alternative reason that is \"explicitly\" labeled by the court as an \"independent\" ground for the decision is not treated as \"simply a dictum\".\n\nThe doctrine of binding precedent or \"stare decisis\" is basic to the English legal system. Special features of the English legal system include the following:\n\nThe British House of Lords, as the court of last appeal outside Scotland before it was replaced by the UK Supreme Court, was not strictly bound to always follow its own decisions until the case \"London Street Tramways v London County Council [1898] AC 375\". After this case, once the Lords had given a ruling on a point of law, the matter was closed unless and until Parliament made a change by statute. This is the most strict form of the doctrine of \"stare decisis\" (one not applied, previously, in common law jurisdictions, where there was somewhat greater flexibility for a court of last resort to review its own precedent).\n\nThis situation changed, however, after the issuance of the Practice Statement of 1966. It enabled the House of Lords to adapt English law to meet changing social conditions. In \"R v G & R\" 2003, the House of Lords overruled its decision in \"Caldwell\" 1981, which had allowed the Lords to establish mens rea (\"guilty mind\") by measuring a defendant's conduct against that of a \"reasonable person,\" regardless of the defendant's actual state of mind.\n\nHowever, the Practice Statement has been seldom applied by the House of Lords, usually only as a last resort. As of 2005, the House of Lords has rejected its past decisions no more than 20 times. They are reluctant to use it because they fear to introduce uncertainty into the law. In particular, the Practice Statement stated that the Lords would be especially reluctant to overrule themselves in criminal cases because of the importance of certainty of that law. The first case involving criminal law to be overruled with the Practice Statement was \"Anderton v Ryan\" (1985), which was overruled by \"R v Shivpuri\" (1986), two decades after the Practice Statement. Remarkably, the precedent overruled had been made only a year before, but it had been criticised by several academic lawyers. As a result, Lord Bridge stated he was \"undeterred by the consideration that the decision in \"Anderton v Ryan\" was so recent. The Practice Statement is an effective abandonment of our pretension to infallibility. If a serious error embodied in a decision of this House has distorted the law, the sooner it is corrected the better.\" Still, the House of Lords has remained reluctant to overrule itself in some cases; in \"R v Kansal\" (2002), the majority of House members adopted the opinion that \"R v Lambert\" had been wrongly decided and agreed to depart from their earlier decision.\n\nA precedent does not bind a court if it finds there was a lack of care in the original \"Per Incuriam\". For example, if a statutory provision or precedent had not been brought to the previous court's attention before its decision, the precedent would not be binding.\n\nOne of the most important roles of precedent is to resolve ambiguities in other legal texts, such as constitutions, statutes, and regulations. The process involves, first and foremost, consultation of the plain language of the text, as enlightened by the legislative history of enactment, subsequent precedent, and experience with various interpretations of similar texts.\n\nA judge's normal aids include access to all previous cases in which a precedent has been set, and a good English dictionary.\n\nJudges and barristers in the U.K use three primary rules for interpreting the law.\n\nUnder the literal rule, the judge should do what the actual legislation states rather than trying to do what the judge thinks that it means. The judge should use the plain everyday ordinary meaning of the words, even if this produces an unjust or undesirable outcome. A good example of problems with this method is \"R v Maginnis\" (1987), in which several judges in separate opinions found several different dictionary meanings of the word \"supply\". Another example is \"Fisher v Bell\", where it was held that a shopkeeper who placed an illegal item in a shop window with a price tag did not make an offer to sell it, because of the specific meaning of \"offer for sale\" in contract law. As a result of this case, Parliament amended the statute concerned to end this discrepancy.\n\nThe golden rule is used when use of the literal rule would obviously create an absurd result. There are two ways in which the golden rule can be applied: a narrow method, and a broad method. Under the narrow method, when there are apparently two contradictory meanings to the wording of a legislative provision, or the wording is ambiguous, the least absurd is to be preferred. Under the broad method, the court modifies the literal meaning in such a way as to avoid the absurd result. An example of the latter approach is \"Adler v George\" (1964). Under the Official Secrets Act 1920 it was an offence to obstruct HM Forces \"in the vicinity of\" a prohibited place. Adler argued that he was not in the \"vicinity\" of such a place but was actually \"in\" it. The court chose not to read the statutory wording in a literal sense to avoid what would otherwise be an absurd result, and Adler was convicted.\n\nThe mischief rule is the most flexible of the interpretation methods. Stemming from \"Heydon's Case\" (1584), it allows the court to enforce what the statute is intended to remedy rather than what the words actually say. For example, in \"Corkery v Carpenter\" (1950), a man was found guilty of being drunk in charge of a carriage, although in fact he only had a bicycle.\n\nIn the United States, the courts have stated consistently that the text of the statute is read as it is written, using the ordinary meaning of the words of the statute.\n\nHowever, most legal texts have some lingering ambiguity—inevitably, situations arise in which the words chosen by the legislature do not address the precise facts in issue, or there is some tension among two or more statutes. In such cases, a court must analyze the various available sources, and reach a resolution of the ambiguity. The \"Canons of statutory construction\" are discussed in a separate article. Once the ambiguity is resolved, that resolution has binding effect as described in the rest of this article.\n\nAlthough inferior courts are bound in theory by superior court precedent, in practice a judge may believe that justice requires an outcome at some variance with precedent, and may distinguish the facts of the individual case on reasoning that does not appear in the binding precedent. On appeal, the appellate court may either adopt the new reasoning, or reverse on the basis of precedent. On the other hand, if the losing party does not appeal (typically because of the cost of the appeal), the lower court decision may remain in effect, at least as to the individual parties.\n\nOccasionally, a lower court judge explicitly states personal disagreement with the judgment he or she has rendered, but that he or she is required to do so by binding precedent. Note that inferior courts cannot evade binding precedent of superior courts, but a court can depart from its own prior decisions.\n\nIn the United States, \"stare decisis\" can interact in counterintuitive ways with the federal and state court systems. On an issue of federal law, a state court is not bound by an interpretation of federal law at the district or circuit level, but is bound by an interpretation by the United States Supreme Court. On an interpretation of state law, whether common law or statutory law, the federal courts are bound by the interpretation of a state court of last resort, and are required normally to defer to the precedent of intermediate state courts as well.\n\nCourts may choose to obey precedent of international jurisdictions, but this is not an application of the doctrine of \"stare decisis\", because foreign decisions are not binding. Rather, a foreign decision that is obeyed on the basis of the soundness of its reasoning will be called \"persuasive authority\" — indicating that its effect is limited to the persuasiveness of the reasons it provides.\n\nOriginalism is an approach to interpretation of a legal text in which controlling weight is given to the intent of the original authors (at least the intent as inferred by a modern judge). In contrast, a non-originalist looks at other cues to meaning, including the current meaning of the words, the pattern and trend of other judicial decisions, changing context and improved scientific understanding, observation of practical outcomes and \"what works,\" contemporary standards of justice, and \"stare decisis\". Both are directed at \"interpreting\" the text, not changing it—interpretation is the process of resolving ambiguity and choosing from among possible meanings, not changing the text.\n\nThe two approaches look at different sets of underlying facts that may or may not point in the same direction--\"stare decisis\" gives most weight to the newest understanding of a legal text, while originalism gives most weight to the oldest. While they don't necessarily reach different results in every case, the two approaches are in direct tension. Originalists such as Justice Antonin Scalia argue that \"\"Stare decisis\" is not usually a doctrine used in civil law systems, because it violates the principle that only the legislature may make law.\" Justice Scalia argues that America is a civil law nation, not a common law nation. By principle, originalists are generally unwilling to defer to precedent when precedent seems to come into conflict with the originalist's own interpretation of the Constitutional text or inferences of original intent (even in situations where there is no original source statement of that original intent). However, there is still room within an originalist paradigm for \"stare decisis\"; whenever the plain meaning of the text has alternative constructions, past precedent is generally considered a valid guide, with the qualifier being that it cannot change what the text actually says.\n\nOriginalists vary in the degree to which they defer to precedent. In his confirmation hearings, Justice Clarence Thomas answered a question from Senator Strom Thurmond, qualifying his willingness to change precedent in this way:\n\nPossibly he has changed his mind, or there are a very large body of cases which merit \"the additional step\" of ignoring the doctrine; according to Scalia, \"Clarence Thomas doesn't believe in stare decisis, period. If a constitutional line of authority is wrong, he would say, let's get it right.\"\n\nProfessor Caleb Nelson, a former clerk for Justice Thomas and law professor at the University of Virginia, has elaborated on the role of \"stare decisis\" in originalist jurisprudence:\n\nThere are disadvantages and advantages of binding precedent, as noted by scholars and jurists.\n\nIn a 1997 book, attorney Michael Trotter blamed over-reliance by American lawyers on binding and persuasive authority, rather than the merits of the case at hand, as a major factor behind the escalation of legal costs during the 20th century. He argued that courts should ban the citation of persuasive precedent from outside their jurisdiction, with two exceptions:\n\nThe disadvantages of \"stare decisis\" include its rigidity, the complexity of learning law, the differences between some cases may be very small and appear illogical, and the slow growth or incremental changes to the law that are in need of major overhaul.\n\nAn argument often used against the system is that it is undemocratic as it allows judges, which may or may not be elected, to make law.\n\nRegarding constitutional interpretations, there is concern that over-reliance on the doctrine of \"stare decisis\" can be subversive. An erroneous precedent may at first be only slightly inconsistent with the Constitution, and then this error in interpretation can be propagated and increased by further precedent until a result is obtained that is greatly different from the original understanding of the Constitution. \"Stare decisis\" is not mandated by the Constitution, and if it causes unconstitutional results then the historical evidence of original understanding can be re-examined. In this opinion, predictable fidelity to the Constitution is more important than fidelity to unconstitutional precedent. See also the living tree doctrine.\n\nA counter-argument (in favor of the advantages of \"stare decisis\") is that if the legislature wishes to alter the case law (other than constitutional interpretations) by statute, the legislature is empowered to do so. Critics sometimes accuse particular judges of applying the doctrine selectively, invoking it to support precedent that the judge supported anyway, but ignoring it in order to change precedent with which the judge disagreed.\n\nThere is much discussion about the virtue of using \"stare decisis\". Supporters of the system, such as minimalists, argue that obeying precedent makes decisions \"predictable\". For example, a business person can be reasonably assured of predicting a decision where the facts of his or her case are sufficiently similar to a case decided previously. This parallels the arguments against retroactive (ex post facto) laws banned by the U.S. Constitution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44074687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44074687", "title": "Rare events", "text": "Rare events\n\nRare events are events that occur with low frequency, and the term is often used in particular reference to infrequent or hypothetical events that have potentially widespread impact and which might destabilize society. Rare events encompass natural phenomena (major earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, floods, asteroid impacts, solar flares, etc.), anthropogenic hazards (warfare and related forms of violent conflict, acts of terrorism, industrial accidents, financial and commodity market crashes, etc.), as well as phenomena for which natural and anthropogenic factors interact in complex ways (epidemic disease spread, global warming-related changes in climate and weather, etc.).\n\nRare events are discrete occurrences that are statistically “improbable” in that they are very infrequently observed. Despite being statistically improbable, such events are plausible insofar as historical instances of the event (or a similar event) have been documented.\nScholarly and popular analyses of rare events often focus on those events that could be reasonably expected to have a substantial negative impact on a society—either economically or in terms of human casualties (typically, both). Examples of such events might include an 8.0+ Richter magnitude earthquake, a nuclear incident that kills thousands of people, or a 10%+ single-day change in the value of a stock market index.\n\nRare event modeling (REM) refers to efforts to characterize the statistical distribution parameters, generative processes, or dynamics that govern the occurrence of statistically rare events, including but not limited to high-impact natural or human-made catastrophes. Such “modeling” may include a wide range of approaches, including, most notably, statistical models derived from historical event data and computational software models that attempt to simulate rare event processes and dynamics. REM also encompasses efforts to forecast the occurrence of similar events over some future time horizon, which may be of interest for both scholarly and applied purposes (e.g., risk mitigation and planning).\n\nIn many cases, rare and catastrophic events can be regarded as extreme-magnitude instances of more mundane phenomena. For example, seismic activity, stock market fluctuations, and acts of organized violence all occur along a continuum of extremity, with more extreme-magnitude cases being statistically infrequent. Therefore, rather than viewing rare event data as its own class of information, data concerning “rare” events often exists as a subset of data within a broader parent event class (e.g., a seismic activity data set would include instances of extreme earthquakes, as well as data on much lower-intensity seismic events).\n\nThe following is a list of data sets focusing on domains that are of broad scholarly and policy interest, and where “rare” (extreme-magnitude) cases may be of particularly keen interest due to their potentially devastating consequences.\nDescriptions of the data sets are extracted from the source websites or providers.\n\n"}
{"id": "53058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53058", "title": "Regular space", "text": "Regular space\n\nIn topology and related fields of mathematics, a topological space \"X\" is called a regular space if every closed subset \"C\" of \"X\" and a point \"p\" not contained in \"C\" admit non-overlapping open neighborhoods. Thus \"p\" and \"C\" can be separated by neighborhoods. This condition is known as Axiom T. The term \"T space\" usually means \"a regular Hausdorff space\". These conditions are examples of separation axioms.\n\nA topological space \"X\" is a regular space if, given any closed set \"F\" and any point \"x\" that does not belong to \"F\", there exists a neighbourhood \"U\" of \"x\" and a neighbourhood \"V\" of \"F\" that are disjoint. Concisely put, it must be possible to separate \"x\" and \"F\" with disjoint neighborhoods.\n\nA T space or regular Hausdorff space is a topological space that is both regular and a Hausdorff space. (A Hausdorff space or T space is a topological space in which any two distinct points are separated by neighbourhoods.) It turns out that a space is T if and only if it is both regular and T. (A T or Kolmogorov space is a topological space in which any two distinct points are topologically distinguishable, i.e., for every pair of distinct points, at least one of them has an open neighborhood not containing the other.) Indeed, if a space is Hausdorff then it is T, and each T regular space is Hausdorff: given two distinct points, at least one of them misses the closure of the other one, so (by regularity) there exist disjoint neighborhoods separating one point from (the closure of) the other.\n\nAlthough the definitions presented here for \"regular\" and \"T\" are not uncommon, there is significant variation in the literature: some authors switch the definitions of \"regular\" and \"T\" as they are used here, or use both terms interchangeably. In this article, we will use the term \"regular\" freely, but we will usually say \"regular Hausdorff\", which is unambiguous, instead of the less precise \"T\". For more on this issue, see History of the separation axioms.\n\nA locally regular space is a topological space where every point has an open neighbourhood that is regular. Every regular space is locally regular, but the converse is not true. A classical example of a locally regular space that is not regular is the bug-eyed line.\n\nA regular space is necessarily also preregular, i.e., any two topologically distinguishable points can be separated by neighbourhoods.\nSince a Hausdorff space is the same as a preregular T space, a regular space which is also T must be Hausdorff (and thus T).\nIn fact, a regular Hausdorff space satisfies the slightly stronger condition T.\nThus, the definition of T may cite T, T, or T instead of T (Hausdorffness); all are equivalent in the context of regular spaces.\n\nSpeaking more theoretically, the conditions of regularity and T-ness are related by Kolmogorov quotients.\nA space is regular if and only if its Kolmogorov quotient is T; and, as mentioned, a space is T if and only if it's both regular and T.\nThus a regular space encountered in practice can usually be assumed to be T, by replacing the space with its Kolmogorov quotient.\n\nThere are many results for topological spaces that hold for both regular and Hausdorff spaces.\nMost of the time, these results hold for all preregular spaces; they were listed for regular and Hausdorff spaces separately because the idea of preregular spaces came later.\nOn the other hand, those results that are truly about regularity generally don't also apply to nonregular Hausdorff spaces.\n\nThere are many situations where another condition of topological spaces (such as normality, pseudonormality, paracompactness, or local compactness) will imply regularity if some weaker separation axiom, such as preregularity, is satisfied.\nSuch conditions often come in two versions: a regular version and a Hausdorff version.\nAlthough Hausdorff spaces aren't generally regular, a Hausdorff space that is also (say) locally compact will be regular, because any Hausdorff space is preregular.\nThus from a certain point of view, regularity is not really the issue here, and we could impose a weaker condition instead to get the same result.\nHowever, definitions are usually still phrased in terms of regularity, since this condition is more well known than any weaker one.\n\nMost topological spaces studied in mathematical analysis are regular; in fact, they are usually completely regular, which is a stronger condition.\nRegular spaces should also be contrasted with normal spaces.\n\nA zero-dimensional space with respect to the small inductive dimension has a base consisting of clopen sets.\nEvery such space is regular.\n\nAs described above, any completely regular space is regular, and any T space that is not Hausdorff (and hence not preregular) cannot be regular.\nMost examples of regular and nonregular spaces studied in mathematics may be found in those two articles.\nOn the other hand, spaces that are regular but not completely regular, or preregular but not regular, are usually constructed only to provide counterexamples to conjectures, showing the boundaries of possible theorems.\nOf course, one can easily find regular spaces that are not T, and thus not Hausdorff, such as an indiscrete space, but these examples provide more insight on the T axiom than on regularity. An example of a regular space that is not completely regular is the Tychonoff corkscrew.\n\nMost interesting spaces in mathematics that are regular also satisfy some stronger condition.\nThus, regular spaces are usually studied to find properties and theorems, such as the ones below, that are actually applied to completely regular spaces, typically in analysis.\n\nThere exist Hausdorff spaces that are not regular. An example is the set R with the topology generated by sets of the form \"U — C\", where \"U\" is an open set in the usual sense, and \"C\" is any countable subset of \"U\".\n\nSuppose that \"X\" is a regular space.\nThen, given any point \"x\" and neighbourhood \"G\" of \"x\", there is a closed neighbourhood \"E\" of \"x\" that is a subset of \"G\".\nIn fancier terms, the closed neighbourhoods of \"x\" form a local base at \"x\".\nIn fact, this property characterises regular spaces; if the closed neighbourhoods of each point in a topological space form a local base at that point, then the space must be regular.\n\nTaking the interiors of these closed neighbourhoods, we see that the regular open sets form a base for the open sets of the regular space \"X\".\nThis property is actually weaker than regularity; a topological space whose regular open sets form a base is \"semiregular\".\n"}
{"id": "8091612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8091612", "title": "Resistance (psychoanalysis)", "text": "Resistance (psychoanalysis)\n\nResistance, in the context of the field of psychoanalysis, refers to oppositional behavior when an individual's unconscious defenses of the ego are threatened by an external source. Sigmund Freud, the founder of psychoanalytic theory, developed his concept of resistance as he worked with patients who suddenly developed uncooperative behaviors during sessions of talk therapy. He reasoned that an individual that is suffering from a psychological affliction, which Sigmund Freud believed to be derived from the presence of suppressed illicit or unwanted thoughts, may inadvertently attempt to impede any attempt to confront a subconsciously perceived threat. This would be for the purpose of inhibiting the revelation of any repressed information from within the unconscious mind.\n\nHaving developed the theory of resistance through his direct experiences with patients undergoing therapy, Sigmund Freud noticed that patients would avoid subjects and topics that struck too closely to uncomfortable memories or unacceptable emotions and desires. Freud then integrated these findings with his previous theories concerning the functions of the id, ego and super-ego. As a result, he eventually advanced his concept of resistance by developing it into a multitude of individual forms that included repression, transference, ego-resistance, \"working-through\", and self-sabotage.\n\nThe common theory behind many of Sigmund Freud's psychoanalytic techniques, alluding to the fundamentals of psychoanalysis as a science, was that it is possible that memories that have been lost from consciousness provide hints of their existence by the means of prompting certain thoughts and behaviors. Accordingly, the aim of psychoanalysis is to bring what is unconscious or preconscious into consciousness through verbalization. Afterwards, the act of bringing such thoughts into consciousness prevents them from motivating behavior and thus allowing the individual to exert more personal control.\n\nThroughout its history, resistance has caused significant division between psychologists. It remains a debated issue as there are some who considered it to be merely a description of a patient’s temperament rather than a universal construct of the human mind. Nonetheless, the concept of resistance retains a firm place in the history of psychology and the development of modern psychoanalysis.\n\nRepression is the form of resistance where the ego pushes offensive memories, ideas, and impulses down into the unconscious. Essentially, the patient is unconsciously hiding memories from the conscious mind.\n\nTypically unconscious, transference is when the patient allows past experiences to affect present relationships. In therapy, this may come about if the therapist reminds the patient, either consciously or unconsciously, of someone in their past who may have had an early impact on their life. Subsequently, the patient may suddenly tend to regard the therapist in either a positive or negative manner, depending upon the nature of the past influence.\n\nThis form of resistance is a neurotic regression to a proposed state of childlike safety. Usually, it involves the patient's attempts to gain attention and sympathy by emphasizing minor medical symptoms (i.e. headaches, nausea, and depression).\n\nDerived from the id, this form of resistance reflects the unconscious desire for consistency in a manner that is based upon the pleasure principle. Since the id is an innate portion of human instinct, interpretation of the conscious is an insufficient method, thus the psychoanalyst must first be able to surmount resistances by the means of deduction of patients' unconscious defenses that are presented through exploitation of the mechanism of transference.\n\nThe weakest form of resistance that reflects the moralistic sentiments of the superego. Essentially, it is a manifestation of internal guilt that prompts personal punishment by the means of self-imposed impediment.\n\nPsychoanalysis is, altogether, considered to be a type of insight-oriented therapeutic program. Despite general initial reservations, these types of programs have since transitioned from being quite marginal to becoming more well-known and mainstream. In consideration to the theory of resistance itself, within a clinical setting, the expression of resistance is considered to be a significant stage to recovery because it reveals the presence of repression. Additionally, it is indicative of progress in the effort of resolving any underlying issues that may be the cause of personal dysfunction. As resistance is theorized to be a manifestation of the unconscious mind's attempts to protect the ego, it is the task of the psychoanalyst to combat this opposition by directing the patient to confront the unacceptable desires or uncomfortable memories. By this course of action, the patient may reach a cathartic conclusion.\n\nPsychologists remain divided with regard to the concept of resistance. Since Freud first developed his theory of resistance, he has been significantly criticized for using personally favorable and unfalsifiable methodology. For example, if a patient were to agree with a psychoanalyst's inference about themselves, it is a confirmation that there is something they are repressing. However, if the patient disagrees, it is also a sign they are engaged in repression, which means the psychoanalyst is correct in either scenario. Additionally, many psychologists believe that the success of psychoanalysis is not due its various explanatory systems or its reasoning for repression, but rather simply due to the process of communication.\n"}
{"id": "1114029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1114029", "title": "Rudy Tomjanovich", "text": "Rudy Tomjanovich\n\nRudolph Tomjanovich Jr. (born November 24, 1948) is an American retired basketball player and coach who coached the Houston Rockets to two consecutive NBA championships. He was an All-Star forward for the Rockets during his playing career.\n\nTomjanovich was born in Hamtramck, Michigan, to a family of Croatian descent. He attended high school in Hamtramck and later the University of Michigan (from 1967 to 1970). He was a high school teammate of ABA player John Brisker.\n\nIn college, Tomjanovich set Michigan Wolverines men's basketball career rebounding records that continue to stand. In 1968 he earned second team All-Big Ten honors, which he followed with first-team honors in 1969 and 1970. During 1970 he was also an All-American.\n\nTomjanovich was selected in the 1970 NBA draft as the second overall pick by the San Diego Rockets (the franchise relocated to Houston in 1971), for whom he would play the entirety of his NBA career. He was also drafted in both 1970 and 1974 by the Utah Stars of the ABA. In his eleven years in the NBA, Tomjanovich had a scoring average of 17.4 points and a rebounding average of 8.1, earning five All-Star Game selections in the process (1974–1977, 1979). He is the third-leading scorer in Rockets history behind Hall of Famers Calvin Murphy and Hakeem Olajuwon. Because his last name was so long, the back of Tomjanovich's jerseys would read \"RUDY T.\", rather than his 11 character name.\n\nThe Rockets retired Tomjanovich's #45 jersey upon the conclusion of his playing career. His collegiate jersey, also #45, was retired by the University of Michigan in 2003.\n\nDespite Tomjanovich's noteworthy career as a player, he is perhaps best remembered for an infamous occurrence at the height of his playing career. In a December 9, 1977 game, the Los Angeles Lakers' Kermit Washington punched Tomjanovich. The blow shattered Tomjanovich's jaw and face and inflicted life-threatening head injuries, leaving him sidelined for five months. He eventually made a full recovery, and would even make an All-Star team two years later. However, his playing career slowly came to a halt and he was forced to retire in his mid-30s. The story and aftermath are recounted in the John Feinstein book \"The Punch: One Night, Two Lives, and the Fight That Changed Basketball Forever\".\n\nTomjanovich retired in 1981 and became a scout for two years before being named an assistant coach in 1983. He served as an assistant under Bill Fitch and Don Chaney.\n\nTomjanovich was named the Rockets' interim head coach in February 1992 after Chaney's resignation. After nearly leading the Rockets to a playoff berth, he was then given the job on a permanent basis.\n\nIn his first full season on the job (1992–93), Tomjanovich guided the Rockets to the Midwest Division title, making him the first head coach to ever take his team from the lottery to a division crown during his first full season. Building on this success, Rudy T. led the team to back-to-back NBA championships in 1994 and 1995; additionally, the Rockets were the only team other than the Chicago Bulls to win multiple championships during the 1990s, with their titles being bookended by the Bulls' two runs of three consecutive titles each. On the playoff run to their second title, the Rockets became the lowest seed (sixth) to win one, and the only team in history to defeat the teams with the four best regular season records in the playoffs. It was on the floor of The Summit after they captured their second title that Rudy proclaimed, \"Don't ever underestimate the heart of a champion!\" In his 11-plus season tenure as Rockets head coach, he posted a 503–397 (.559) regular-season record and a 51–39 (.567) playoff mark. His career wins and winning percentage are Rockets franchise records. After the 1998-99 season, the Rockets would not make the playoffs for the rest of his coaching tenure, and would consistently finish in the division cellar; Tomjanovich left the team after the 2002–03 season when he was diagnosed with bladder cancer (from which he has since made a full recovery ), ending a 33-year association with the Rockets franchise—including its first 32 years in Houston—as a player, assistant coach and head coach.\n\nIn 1998, Tomjanovich volunteered to coach the U.S. men's senior basketball team at the FIBA World Championship in Greece. Despite the absence of NBA players due to contract negotiations, Tomjanovich guided the hastily assembled group of CBA players to the bronze medal. In light of his outstanding service in coaching at the 1998 Worlds and his stellar professional resume, Tomjanovich was tabbed to coach the U.S. men's senior team at the Games of the XXVII Olympiad in Sydney, Australia. The U.S. Team won the gold medal with an 8–0 record. On February 15, 2006, Tomjanovich was named director of scouting for USA Men's Basketball.\n\nIn 2004, Tomjanovich signed a five-year, $30 million contract to replace Phil Jackson as coach of the Los Angeles Lakers. He resigned after 41 games, citing mental and physical exhaustion unrelated to his past bout with bladder cancer. The Lakers paid him a $10 million settlement, leading to speculation that the Lakers had instead terminated his contract. Tomjanovich stayed with the Lakers as a consultant.\n\nTomjanovich was well known for his instinctive managerial style and intensity on the bench. Always self-deprecating, he nonetheless heaped tremendous pressure on himself and his assistants to be prepared for each game, several times being hospitalized for exhaustion. After winning back-to-back titles, Tomjanovich deflected much of the praise and eschewed the \"genius\" label assigned to other champion coaches like Chuck Daly and Phil Jackson. His hands-off, easy-going manner with his players gave him a reputation as a \"players coach\", and as such veteran players were eager to play on his teams. Among the stars who requested and were granted trades to Houston during his tenure were Clyde Drexler, Charles Barkley, and Scottie Pippen.\n\nIn 1970, Tomjanovich married Sophie Migas, a former cheerleader. They have three children, two daughters and one son. \n\nTomjanovich has participated with the Texas Children's Cancer Center to help raise funds for cancer research. He has also helped promote a deadbolt called the \"Ultimate Lock\" and CieAura health care products.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41183842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41183842", "title": "Story generator", "text": "Story generator\n\nA story generator or plot generator is a tool that generates basic narratives or plot ideas. The generator could be in the form of a computer program, a chart with multiple columns, a book composed of panels that flip independently of one another, or a set of several adjacent reels that spin independently of one another, allowing a user to select elements of a narrative plot. The tool may allow the user to select elements for the narrative, or it may combine them randomly, a specific variation known as a random plot generator. Such tools can be created for virtually any genre, although they tend to produce formulaic and hackneyed situations.\n\nPlot generators were described as early as the 1930s. In an article originally published in 1935 and reprinted in 2002, Robert J. Hogan described a book-based device called the \"Plot Genie\" which consisted of three lists of 180 items each: murder victims in the first list, crime locations in the second list, and important clues in the third list. The item to use from each list was chosen by spinning a dial with 180 numbers on it. Hogan also mentions other similar devices called \"The 36 Dramatic Situations\" and \"Plotto: The Master Book of All Plots\". \"Plotto\" by William Wallace Cook is a non-random plot generator. The reader makes all the decisions within the framework set out by the book.\n\nThe earliest computerized story generator was TALE-SPIN, an artificial intelligence program developed in the 1970s. More recently in the 1990s, the computer program MEXICA was developed for academic research into automated plot generation. It produces plots related to the Mexica people. Using an approach similar to that of MEXICA, the program ProtoPropp generates stories related to Russian folklore. There are a large number of \"random plot generators\" available on the internet—generic and relating to specific fandoms, with a certain amount of academic research into the subject.\n\nPlot generators have also been portrayed in fiction, as in Fritz Leiber's \"The Silver Egghead\".\n\nThe term story generator algorithms (SGAs) refers to computational procedures resulting in an artifact that can be considered a story. In the field of Artificial Intelligence (AI), the automated generation of stories has been a subject of research for over fifty years. An algorithm is understood as a set of instructions that, when applied to a given input, produces an output. In the present context, the desired output is a story. The underlying concept of “story” in SGAs is functional and does not imply any aesthetic notion. This is important because it sets the context for evaluation of generated stories, for which having a surface realization as a readable and appealing text is not necessarily a core issue.\n"}
{"id": "4713918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4713918", "title": "Subadditivity effect", "text": "Subadditivity effect\n\nThe subadditivity effect is the tendency to judge probability of the whole to be less than the probabilities of the parts.\n\nFor instance, subjects in one experiment judged the probability of death from cancer in the United States was 18%, the probability from heart attack was 22%, and the probability of death from \"other natural causes\" was 33%. Other participants judged the probability of death from a natural cause was 58%. Natural causes are made up of precisely cancer, heart attack, and \"other natural causes,\" however, the sum of the latter three probabilities was 73%, and not 58%. According to Tversky and Koehler (1994) this kind of result is observed consistently.\n\nIn a 2012 article in Psychological Bulletin it is suggested the subadditivity effect can be explained by an information-theoretic generative mechanism that assumes a noisy conversion of objective evidence (observation) into subjective estimates (judgment). This explanation is different than support theory, proposed as an explanation by Tversky and Koehler, which requires additional assumptions. Since mental noise is a sufficient explanation that is much simpler and straightforward than any explanation involving heuristics or behavior, Occam's razor would argue in its favor as the underlying generative mechanism (it is the hypotheses which makes the fewest assumptions).\n"}
{"id": "711640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=711640", "title": "Suspended sentence", "text": "Suspended sentence\n\nA suspended sentence is a legal term for a judge's delaying of a defendant's serving of a sentence after they have been found guilty, in order to allow the defendant to perform a period of probation. If the defendant does not break the law during that period, and fulfills the particular conditions of the probation, the judge usually dismisses the sentence.\n\nIn Australia, suspended sentences are commonly imposed in order to alleviate the strain on overcrowded prisons. For example, an individual may be sentenced to a six-month jail term, wholly suspended for six months; if they commit any other offence during that year, the original jail term is immediately applied in addition to any other sentence.\n\nAs of 1 September, 2014, suspended sentences no longer exist in Victoria.\n\nIn the People's Republic of China (excluding Hong Kong and Macau), both suspended sentences and suspended \"sentencing\" (, also translated as a sentence \"with reprieve\") are featured in the criminal law. In the first situation, a fixed term sentence of three years or below can be suspended. In the second situation, sentencing does not immediately follow the guilty verdict, but instead is determined after a period of probation.\n\nDeath sentences can also be suspended (called a \"death sentence with reprieve\"), so that an offender who does not intentionally re-offend during the two-year suspension period would have the sentence commuted to a life sentence.\n\nA suspended sentence is called \"ehdollinen vankeusrangaistus\" in Finnish, which translates to \"conditional imprisonment\". When a sentence of imprisonment is imposed conditionally, the enforcement of the sentence is postponed for a probation period. The length of the probation period is at least one and at most three years. The probation period begins at the pronouncement or the issue of the judgment. When conditional imprisonment is imposed, the convicted person shall be notified, in connection with the pronouncement or the issue of the judgment, of the date when the probation period ends and of the grounds on which the sentence may be ordered to be enforced. \n\nThe court may order the enforcement of conditional imprisonment if the convicted person commits an offence during the probation period and the charge has been brought within one year of the end of the probation period. In this event, the conditional sentence to be enforced, the sentence for the offence committed during the probation period and the sentences of imprisonment for the other offences considered in the same trial shall be joined as one unconditional sentence of imprisonment. The court may also order that conditional imprisonment be enforced only in part, in which case the remainder of the sentence shall continue to be conditional, subject to the same probation period.\n\nIn the law of the Republic of Ireland, the 2006 law by which a suspended sentence is activated was ruled unconstitutional in 2016. The 2006 law required that a court decision on whether to activate the suspended sentence be made as soon as a later conviction was handed down, even if there was an appeal pending for the later conviction.\n\n are common practice in Japan and can be applied in cases where a sentence is for up to 3 years in prison and/or 500,000 yen in fines. Any criminal activity during the period of the suspended sentence will result in the cancellation of the sentence and imprisonment for the prescribed term.\n\nA suspended sentence can be applied if the term of imprisonment is under two years and the offender agrees to comply with court requirements including a curfew, performing unpaid work and rehabilitation. In 2017, 5% of convictions resulted in a suspended sentence, compared to 7% immediate custodial sentences.\n\nIn the United States, it is common practice for judges to hand down suspended sentences to first-time offenders who have committed a minor crime, and for prosecutors to recommend suspended sentences as part of a plea bargain. They are often given to mitigate the effect of penalties.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, the criminal record of the guilty party will still carry the offense, even after probation is adequately served. In other cases, the process of deferred adjudication prevents the conviction from appearing on a person's criminal record, once probation had been completed.\n\nIn the federal system, judges' authority to suspend sentences has been abolished, by the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, through the United States Sentencing Commission, and upheld by \"Mistretta v. United States\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4160051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4160051", "title": "Tamil units of measurement", "text": "Tamil units of measurement\n\nThe Tamil units of measurement is a system of measurements that was traditionally used in ancient Tamil-speaking South India. \n\nThese ancient measurement systems spanned systems of counting, distances, volumes, time, weight as well as tools used to do so. While modern India uses the metric system International System of Units (Tamil Nadu state included), some of these older day measurement systems, especially those of counting, are still used today.\n\nOther units that have persisted are those of area – the 'ma' (not to be confused with the dollar-cent) and the ‘ground’, both used to measure land and the ‘molam’ which has been relegated to measuring the length of a sandanam garland sold on streets.\n\nThere are several similarities between the measurement system used in Tamil Nadu and that used by the Indus Valley civilisation. A shift of Indian mathematicians to South India after the 12th century could be a driving factor for homogenisation. However, this remains a hypothesis because study of ancient science has been neglected in India. A large number of ancient manuscripts in Kerala and Tamil Nadu remain untranslated and unpublished.\n\n\nArea calculation and Measurement Chart\n\nIn Jaffna, Sri Lanka For House property\n\nVaraku Culture (V.C.)\n\nPaddy Culture (P.C.)\n\nThe above is not in line with South Indian Inscriptions.\n2 kuṉṟima குன்றிமணி = 1 māñcāḍi மஞ்சாடி\n20 māñcāḍi மஞ்சாடி = 1 kaḻañcu கழஞ்சு\nCeylon Currency and Coins by H W Codrington page 10 too agrees with 20 māñcāḍi = 1 kaḻañcu.\n\n\n1 \"padi\" = 1800 \"avarai\" pods = 12,800 \"miḷagu\" seeds = 14,400 \"nel\" grains = 14,800 \"payaṟu\" grains = 38,000 \"arisi\" grains = 115,200 \"sesame ellu\" seeds\n\n\n\nLikeness has attributes of tone, sound, colour and shape for comparison of a given substance with a known standard.\n\nThe following are the traditional numbers of the Ancient Tamil Country, Tamizhakam.\n\nTamil texts also elaborate the following sanskritized version :\n\nMalaysian text elaborates the following version\n\n\n\n\nசிறுபொழுது (Daily) \n1. காலை (kālai): 6 am-10 am \n2. நண்பகல் (naṇpagal): 10 am-2 pm \n3. எற்பாடு (eṟpāḍu): 2 pm-6 pm \n4. மாலை (mālai): 6 pm-10 pm \n5. இடையாமம் (iḍaiyāmam): 10 pm-2 am \n6. வைகறை (vaikaṟai): 2 am-6 am\n\nபெரும்பொழுது (பெரும்பொழுது என்பது யாது எனில்\nபன்னிரு மாதங்களை ஆறாய்ப் பகுத்தது)\n\n1. இளவேனில் (Iḷavēṉil): சித்திரை , வைகாசி \n2. முதுவேனில் (Mutuvēṉil) :ஆனி , ஆடி \n3. கார்காலம் (Kārkālam): ஆவணி, புரட்டாசி\n4. குளிர்காலம் (Kuḷirkālam): ஐப்பசி ,கார்த்திகை \n5. முன்பனிக் காலம்(Muṉpaṉik kālam): மார்கழி , தை \n6. பின்பனிக் காலம் (Piṉpaṉik kālam): மாசி , பங்குனி\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44426126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44426126", "title": "Victim surcharge", "text": "Victim surcharge\n\nIn the legal system of England and Wales, the victim surcharge is a penalty applied to people convicted of offences, in addition to a conditional discharge, a fine, or a community or custodial sentence, in order to provide compensation for the victims of crime.\n\nThe surcharge is not paid directly to the criminal's victim, but is pooled and distributed through the Victim and Witness General Fund. The amount to be paid is specified by law, and courts have no discretion to reduce the amount, nor to waive the surcharge, even for defendants of limited means. The law journalist Joshua Rozenberg has reported cases where a surcharge levied against a young person became the responsibility of their parents - even when a parent was the victim of the crime in question.\n\nThe surcharge was first introduced in 2007. From 1 September 2014, the discretion of magistrates' courts to apply additional custody days in lieu of the surcharge was withdrawn.\n\nFor offences committed after 8 April 2016, the amount of the surcharge, depending on the penalty awarded, is:\n\n\nOther figures apply for legal persons who are not individuals; and offenders aged under 18.\n\nOfficial figures show that £51m was raised, between 2010 and 2014.\n"}
{"id": "49021455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49021455", "title": "War on coal", "text": "War on coal\n\nIn the United States, the War on Coal is a phrase used by the coal industry and its supporters to describe what they claim is an effort by the Obama administration to impose stringent regulations on coal power in the United States and thereby make such power uneconomical. Proponents of this phrase also often identify the Environmental Protection Agency as one of the chief entities waging this putative war, although Michael Grunwald has claimed that the war on coal, although real, does not primarily happen at the national level but at the state and local level, and that the \"boots on the ground\" in the war are lawyers from the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign. During Obama's tenure, the Obama administration denied that they were waging a war on coal, noting the possibility of upgrading older power plants with more efficient turbines, and also pointing to the possibility of carbon sequestration techniques.\n\nOn March 28, 2017, in announcing an executive order aimed at revoking various rules regarding carbon emissions enacted during the Obama administration, President Donald Trump stated that \"Our administration is putting an end to the war on coal.\"\n\nOn October 9, 2017, Trump's Environmental Protection Agency chief, Scott Pruitt reiterated \"the war against coal is over\" while announcing a move to repeal a rule on greenhouse gas emissions.\n"}
