{"id": "630022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=630022", "title": "Abstract nonsense", "text": "Abstract nonsense\n\nIn mathematics, abstract nonsense, general abstract nonsense, generalized abstract nonsense, and general nonsense are terms used by mathematicians to describe abstract methods related to category theory and homological algebra. More generally, “abstract nonsense” may refer to a proof that relies on category-theoretic methods, or even to the study of category theory itself.\n\nRoughly speaking, category theory is the study of the general form, that is, categories of mathematical theories, without regard to their content. As a result, mathematical proofs that rely on category-theoretic ideas often seem out of context, somewhat akin to a non sequitur. Authors sometimes dub these proofs “abstract nonsense” as a light-hearted way of alerting readers to their abstract nature. Labeling an argument \"abstract nonsense\" is usually \"not\" intended to be derogatory, and is instead used jokingly, in a self-deprecating way, affectionately, or even as a compliment to the generality of the argument.\n\nCertain ideas and constructions in mathematics share a uniformity throughout many domains, unified by category theory. Typical methods include the use of classifying spaces and universal properties, use of the Yoneda lemma, natural transformations between functors, and diagram chasing.\n\nWhen an audience can be assumed to be familiar with the general form of such arguments, mathematicians will use the expression \"Such and such is true by abstract nonsense\" rather than provide an elaborate explanation of particulars. For example, one might say \"By abstract nonsense, products are unique up to isomorphism when they exist\", instead of arguing about how these isomorphisms can be derived from the universal property that defines the product. This allows one to skip proof details that can be considered trivial or not providing much insight, focusing instead on genuinely innovative parts of a larger proof.\n\nThe term predates the foundation of category theory as a subject itself. Referring to a joint paper with Samuel Eilenberg that introduced the notion of a \"category\" in 1942, Saunders Mac Lane wrote the subject was 'then called \"general abstract nonsense\"'. The term is often used to describe the application of category theory and its techniques to less abstract domains.\n\nThe term is believed to have been coined by the mathematician Norman Steenrod, himself one of the developers of the categorical point of view.\n\nConsider the example of showing that a 3-manifold \"M\" admits a map to the 2-sphere that is non-trivial (i.e. non-homotopic to a constant map), when the 2nd Betti number of \"M\" is positive. This means the 2nd cohomology group has positive rank (by the universal coefficient theorem for cohomology), so it has a non-zero element. The properties of Eilenberg–MacLane spaces then give a corresponding non-trivial map \"f\" from \"M\" to the infinite-dimensional complex projective space CP, since it is a \"K\"(Z,2) Eilenberg–MacLane space. The space CP can be realized as a CW complex with exactly one cell in each even dimension and no cells in odd dimension, while \"M\" can be realized with no cells in dimensions above 3, so by the cellular approximation theorem there is a map homotopic to \"f\" that maps \"M\" into the 3-skeleton of CP, which is the 2-sphere.\n\nThough this proof establishes the truth of the statement in question, the proof technique has little to do with the topology or geometry of the 2-sphere, let alone 3-manifolds, as it relies on more general categorical principles. Because of the reliance on these abstract principles, the result is independent of subtler geometric details, so offers little geometric insight into the nature of such a map. On the other hand, the proof is surprisingly short and clean, and a “hands-on” approach involving the explicit construction of such a map would be potentially laborious.\n\n"}
{"id": "1040219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1040219", "title": "Achievement gap in the United States", "text": "Achievement gap in the United States\n\nThe achievement gap in the United States is the observed, persistent disparity in measures of educational performance among subgroups of U.S. students, especially groups defined by socioeconomic status (SES), race/ethnicity and gender. The achievement gap can be observed on a variety of measures, including standardized test scores, grade point average, dropout rates, and college enrollment and completion rates. While this article focuses on the achievement gap in the United States, the gap in achievement between lower income students and higher income students exists in all nations and it has been studied extensively in the U.S. and other countries, including the U.K. Various other gaps between groups exist around the globe as well.\n\nResearch into the causes of the disparity in academic achievement between students from different socioeconomic and racial backgrounds has been ongoing since the 1966 publication of the Coleman Report (officially titled \"Equality of Educational Opportunity\"), commissioned by the U.S. Department of Education, which found that a combination of home, community, and in-school factors affect academic performance and contribute to the achievement gap. According to American educational psychologist David Berliner, home and community environments have a stronger impact on school achievement than in-school factors, in part, because students spend more time outside of school than in school. In addition, the out-of-school factors influencing academic performance differ significantly between children living in poverty and children from middle-income households.\n\nThe achievement gap, as reported in trend data collected by the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP), has become a focal point of education reform efforts by a number of nonprofit organizations and advocacy groups. Attempts to minimize the achievement gap by improving equality of access to educational opportunities have been numerous but fragmented, such as affirmative action, multicultural education, finance equalization, and interventions to improve school testing, teacher quality and accountability.\n\nThe education of African Americans and some other minorities lags behind those of other U.S. ethnic groups, such as Whites and Asian Americans, as reflected by test scores, grades, urban high school graduation rates, rates of disciplinary action, and rates of conferral of undergraduate degrees. Indeed, high school graduation rates and college enrollment rates are comparable to those of whites 25 or 30 years ago. It should also be noted that the category of African immigrant population (excluding Haitians and other foreign-born blacks born outside of Africa) has the highest educational attainment of any group in the United States, but they represent a small group within the larger African American population.\n\nEast Asian Americans of Chinese, Japanese and Korean descent score the highest in all scholastic standardized tests such as the SAT, GRE, MCAT, USMLE exams and IQ tests followed by caucasian White people who score in the intermediate range followed by African-American and Hispanic students who tend to score in the lower ranges. U.S. students as whole have in general attained average scores on the International PISA test while other wealthy industrialized developed East Asian countries, such as Taiwan, Japan, Singapore and South Korea have the highest top scores. However, compared with children in some less developed countries like Benin where some children, especially girls, end their education after the elementary level, education in the United States is compulsory to age 16 regardless of race or class. It is expected that over half of public education students will be required to pass standards-based assessments which expect that all students to be at least exposed to algebra by high school and exit prepared for college. In many other nations, such as Germany and Japan, those with lower test scores may be tracked as skilled tradepersons or unskilled laborers.\n\nNowadays, there's a gaining population of students who use online education, and the number of institutions which offering fully online degrees is also increasing. According to several studies, online education probably could create an environment where there is less cultural division and negative stereotypes of African Americans, thus protecting those students who have had bad experiences. In addition, the influence technology and user skills and so as economics and academic influences are tightly bonded, that may have positively contributed to African American online learners experience. However, it appears African American male students are less likely to enroll in online classes.\n\nEvidence of the achievement gap can be found using various measures, but one assessment used nationwide is the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP). The graphs below show the achievement gap on this assessment between black and white students and between Hispanic and white students in the U.S. over time. Although the gaps have generally narrowed in recent years according to this particular measure, there are clearly still large disparities between groups.\n\nResults of the reading achievement test:\n\nResearchers have not reached consensus about the causes of the academic achievement gap; instead, there exists a wide range of studies that cite an array of factors, both cultural and structural, that influence student performance in school. Annette Lareau suggested that students who lack middle-class cultural capital and have limited parental involvement are likely to have lower academic achievement than their better resourced peers. Other researchers suggest that academic achievement is more closely tied to race and socioeconomic status and have tried to pinpoint why.\n\nEconomic factors were identified as lack of online course access (McCoy, 2012) and online course attrition which indicated before (Liu et al., 2007). Based on the National Center for Educational Statistic (2015), about half of African American male students grew up in single-parent households. They are associated with higher incidences of poverty, which leads to poorer educational outcomes (Child Trends Databank, 2015). Low-income households tend to have fewer home computers and less access to the Internet (Zickuhr & Smith, 2012).\n\nFor example, being raised in a low-income family often means having fewer educational resources in addition to poor nutrition and limited access to health care, all of which could contribute to lower academic performance. Researchers concerned with the achievement gap between genders cite biological differences, such as brain structure and development, as a possible reason why one gender outperforms the other in certain subjects. For example, a Virginia Tech Study conducted in 2000 examined the brains of 508 children and found that different areas of the brain develop in a different sequence in girls compared to boys.\n\nThe differing maturation speed of the brain between boys and girls affects how each gender processes information and could have implications for how they perform in school.\nHernstein and Murray claimed in the book \"The Bell Curve\", creating much controversy, that genetic variation in average levels of intelligence (IQ) may explain some portion of the racial disparities in achievement. Other researchers have argued that there is no significant difference in inherent cognitive ability between different races that could help to explain the achievement gap, and that environment is at the root of the issue.\n\nResearch shows that the achievement gap, which often is first measured (by standardized tests) in elementary school, actually begins well before students reach kindergarten as a “school readiness” gap. One study claims that about half the test score gap between black and white high school students is already evident when children start school.\n\nA variety of different tests at kindergarten entry have provided evidence of such a gap, including the U.S. Department of Education's Early Childhood Longitudinal Survey of Kindergarten children (ECLS-K). While results differ depending on the instrument, estimates of the black-white gap range from slightly less than half a standard deviation to slightly more than 1 standard deviation.\n\nThis early disparity in performance is critical, as research shows that once students are behind, they do not catch up. Children who score poorly on tests of cognitive skills before starting kindergarten are highly likely to be low performers throughout their school careers. The evidence of the early appearance of the gap has led to efforts focused on early childhood interventions (see “Narrowing the achievement gap” below).\n\nAchievement gaps between African American students and White students in online classes tend to be greater than regular class. Expanding from 14% in 1995 to 22% in 2015 (National Center for Education Statistics, 2016). Possible cause might be the differences in socio-economic status (Palmer et al., 2013), academic performance differences (Osborne, 2001), unable to access technology (Fairlie, 2012), no online technical support (Rovai & Gallien, 2005), and anxious towards racial stereotyping (Osborne, 2001). \n\nThe culture and environment in which children are raised may play a role in the achievement gap. Jencks and Phillips argue that African American parents may not encourage early education in toddlers because they do not see the personal benefits of having exceptional academic skills. As a result of cultural differences, African American students tend to begin school with smaller vocabularies than their white classmates. Hart and Risley calculated a \"30 million word gap\" between children of high school dropouts and those of professionals who are college educated. The differences are qualitative as well as quantitative, with differences in \"unique\" words, complexity, and \"conversational turns.\"\n\nHowever, poverty often acts as a confounding factor and differences that are assumed to arise from racial/cultural factors may be socioeconomically driven. Many children who are poor, regardless of race, come from homes that lack stability, continuity of care, adequate nutrition, and medical care creating a level of environmental stress that can affect the young child's development. As a result, these children enter school with decreased word knowledge that can affect their language skills, influence their experience with books, and create different perceptions and expectations in the classroom context.\n\nStudies show that when students have parental assistance with homework, they perform better in school. This is a problem for many minority students due to the large number of single-parent households (67% of African-American children are in a single-parent household) and the increase in non-English speaking parents. Students from single-parent homes often find it difficult to find time to receive help from their parent. Similarly, some Hispanic students have difficulty getting help with their homework because there is not an English speaker at home to offer assistance.\n\nDisadvantages in a child's early life can cultivate into achievement gaps in their education. Poverty, coupled with the environment they are raised in, can lead to shortcomings in educational achievement. Despite strong standards and beliefs in education, Hispanic children consistently perform poorly, reflected by a low average of math and reading scores, as compared to other groups except African American. Hispanic and African American children have been shown to be more likely to be raised in poverty, with 33% of Hispanic families living below the economic poverty level, compared to African American (39%), Asian (14%) and White (13%) counterparts. Children who are raised in poverty are less likely to be enrolled in nursery or preschool. Though researchers are seeing improvements in achievement levels, such as a decrease in high school dropout rates (from 24% to 17%) and a steady increase in math and reading scores over the past 10 years, there are still issues that must be addressed.\n\nThere is a common misconception that Hispanic parents are not involved in their child's education and fail to transmit strong educational values to their children. However, there is evidence that Hispanic parents actually hold their children's education in high value. The majority of Hispanic children are affected by immigration. It affects recent immigrants as well as the children of immigrants. Both recent immigrants and the children of immigrants are faced with language barriers and other migration obstacles. A study explored the unique situation and stressors recent Latin American immigrants face. Hispanic students showed lower academic achievement, more absences, and more life stressors than their counterparts. In 2014-2015, 77.8% of Hispanic children were English Language learners. This can be problematic because children may not have parents who speak English at home to help with language acquisition. Immigration struggles can be used as a motivator for students. Immigrant parents appeal to their children and hold high expectations because of the “gift” they are bestowing on them. They immigrated and sacrificed their lives so their children can succeed, and this framework is salient in encouraging children to pursue their education. Parents use their struggles and occupation to encourage a better life.\n\nParental involvement has been shown to increase educational success and attainment for students. For example, parental involvement in elementary school has been shown to lower high school dropout rates and improved on time completion of high school. A common misconception is that Latino parents don’t hold their children's education in high regards (Valencia, 2002), but this has been debunked. Parents show their values in education by holding high academic expectations and giving “consejos” or advice. In 2012, 97% of families reported teaching their children letters, words or numbers. A study reported that parent involvement during adolescence continues to be as influential as in early childhood.\n\nAnother explanation that has been suggested for racial and ethnic differences in standardized test performance is that some minority children may not be motivated to do their best on these assessments. Many argue that standardized IQ tests and other testing procedures are culturally biased toward the knowledge and experiences of the European-American middle class.\n\nClaude M. Steele suggested that minority children and adolescents may also experience stereotype threat—the fear that they will be judged to have traits associated with negative appraisals and/or stereotypes of their race or ethnic group. According to this theory, this produces test anxiety and keeps them from doing as well as they could on tests. According to Steele, minority test takers experience anxiety, believing that if they do poorly on their test they will confirm the stereotypes about inferior intellectual performance of their minority group. As a result, a self-fulfilling prophecy begins, and the child performs at a level beneath his or her inherent abilities.\n\nSome researchers also hypothesize that in some cases, minorities, especially African American students, may stop trying in school because they do not want to be accused of “acting white” by their peers, or that some minority students simply stop trying because they do not believe they will ever see the true or deserved benefits of their hard work. As some researchers point out, minority students may feel little motivation to do well in school because they do not believe it will pay off in the form of a better job or upward social mobility. By not trying to do well in school, such students engage in a rejection of the achievement ideology – that is, the idea that working hard and studying long hours will pay off for students in the form of higher wages or upward social mobility.\n\nDifferent schools have different effects on similar students. Children of color tend to be concentrated in low-achieving, highly segregated schools. In general, minority students are more likely to come from low-income households, meaning minority students are more likely to attend poorly funded schools based on the districting patterns within the school system. Schools in lower-income districts tend to employ less qualified teachers and have fewer educational resources. Research shows that teacher effectiveness is the most important in-school factor affecting student learning. Good teachers can actually close or eliminate the gaps in achievement on the standardized tests that separate white and minority students.\n\nSchools also tend to place students in tracking groups as a means of tailoring lesson plans for different types of learners. However, as a result of schools placing emphasis on socioeconomic status and cultural capital, minority students are vastly over-represented in lower educational tracks. Similarly, Hispanic and African American students are often wrongly placed into lower tracks based on teachers’ and administrators’ expectations for minority students. Such expectations of a race within school systems are a form of institutional racism. Some researchers compare the tracking system to a modern form of racial segregation within the schools.\n\nStudies on tracking groups within schools have also proven to be detrimental for minority students. Once students are in these lower tracks, they tend to have less-qualified teachers, a less challenging curriculum, and few opportunities to advance into higher tracks. There is also some research that suggests students in lower tracks suffer from social psychological consequences of being labeled as a slower learner, which often leads children to stop trying in school. In fact, many sociologists argue that tracking in schools does not provide any lasting benefits to any group of students.\n\nThe practice of awarding low grades and test scores to children who struggle causes low-performing children to experience anxiety, demoralization, and a loss of control. This undermines performance. The effect increases across the elementary and secondary school years. The effect explains why the achievement gap increases over the school years. The effect may explain why the achievement gap has resisted solution.\n\nAdditionally, poor and minority students have disproportionately less access to high-quality early childhood education, which has been shown to have a strong impact on early learning and development. One study found that although black children are more likely to attend preschool than white children, they may experience lower-quality care. The same study also found that Hispanic children in the U.S. are much less likely to attend preschool than white children. Another study conducted in Illinois in 2010 found that only one in three Latino parents could find a preschool slot for his or her child, compared to almost two thirds of other families.\n\nFinally, according to the National Institute for Early Education Research (NIEER), families with modest incomes (less than $60,000) have the least access to preschool education. Research suggests that dramatic increases in both enrollment and quality of prekindergarten programs would help to alleviate the school readiness gap and ensure that low-income and minority children begin school on even footing with their peers.\n\nIn addition to the moral and social justice arguments for closing the achievement gap, there are strong economic arguments for doing so. A 2009 report by the management consulting firm McKinsey & Company asserts that the persistence of the achievement gap in the U.S. has the economic effect of a “permanent national recession.\" The report claims that if the achievement gap between black and Latino performance and white student performance had been narrowed, GDP in 2008 would have been $310 billion to $525 billion higher (2–4 percent).\n\nIf the gap between low-income students and their peers had been narrowed, GDP in the same year would have been $400 billion to $670 billion higher (3–5 percent). In addition to the potential increase in GDP, the report projects that closing the achievement gap would lead to cost savings in areas outside of education, such as incarceration and healthcare. The link between low school performance and crime, low earnings and poor health has been echoed in academic research.\n\nStudents who have problems with technology interfered are more likely to withdraw from their online courses (Bambara et al., 2009). Also, there's no sufficient technology support which will also leads students to drop the class since their problems could not be solved quickly (Palmer & Holt, 2010; Yang & Cornelius, 2004).\n\nStudents who were more focused and engaged themselves to the class will tend to receive higher grade, their self-confidence can be gained through daily life use of Internet (Sahin & Shelley, 2008). Male online learners had higher Internet self-efficacy than female, while they participated less in discussions (Chang et al., 2014; Ong & Lai, 2006).\n\nAs Fletcher (2015) indicated, possible factors that helped African American college students to gain academic success via online education might be: positive pre-college educational experiences, supportive environments in college campus, involving in campus activities, positive faculty interactions and support, same race/gender relationships with peers, family support, self-confidence, future career ambitions and the ability to face racism.\n\nStudents of color like African American students need a color-blind environment to support them reaching towards academic success better. In this way they are more likely to gain self-confidence and educational resilience (Tucker, 2014).\n\nExplanations for the achievement gap and concerns over its effects and even the existence of such a gap are widely contested.  These explanations are also the source of much controversy, especially since efforts to \"close the gap\" have become some of the more politically prominent education reform issues. The issues that the achievement gap perpetuate also hold politically charged issues. For example, the cause of the Latino education crisis is not attributable to any single factor. It is likely the result of multiple variables-- all of which can have an effect on one another-- ranging from social, economic, and educational conditions to inadequate social services and families with exceptionally low human and social capital. The effects of the achievement gap in school can be seen later in life for students. For example, since schools often lack the resources to meet many students' most basic educational needs and since there are few entry level jobs that provide a living wage and benefits available to those without higher education or special skills in the economy, many are left at a disadvantage. The following attempts have all been made in order to counteract the effects of the achievement gap at schools. They range from nationwide, government-led initiatives to smaller school-based initiatives.\n\nThe federal No Child Left Behind Act of 2002 (NCLB) focuses on standardized test scores and school accountability to ensure that all students have the same educational opportunities. As written, the legislation incentivizes that schools show continual improvement toward this goal (otherwise known as \"Adequate Yearly Progress,\" or AYP) otherwise schools face punishments, such as sanctions. This system has been criticized by some for being unfair toward schools that have the highest population of minority and poor students, as it is harder for these schools to meet the standards set by the No Child Left Behind Act, due to insufficient funding from either local, district, or state actors. This in turn leads to a cycle of underperformance and sanctions within these areas which furthers the problems that the Act meant to fix.\n\nIn 2010, the Obama Administration instituted the Race to the Top (RTTT) program which provides financial incentives to states to produce measurable student gains. RTTT's primary goals are to improve student achievement, close achievement gaps, and improve high school graduation rates. The goals of both programs has been to close the achievement gap, but the RTTT has been more focused on closing the gap between higher and lower performing schools rather than focusing on a national approach. The major difference between the two educational reform programs is that RTTT is a competitive grant program that provides incentives for schools to change, while the NCLB Act mandated various changes in state and local education systems. The RTTT's approach is more adaptable and focused as it allows for individual actions between schools, and is meant to encourage reform within schools without resorting to punishments, whereas the No Child Left Behind Act relies on punishments as its main form of promoting reform in schools.\n\nAnother attempt to standardize the education of students is the Common Core State Standards Initiative, also known as Common Core. The Common Core, created in 2009 and 2010, sets benchmarks for the skills that students should have by certain grade levels in subjects such as Math and Language Arts and the system itself is to meant to be a national baseline for how students are achieving. This baseline is meant to help establish what students need in order to achieve in higher education. While the standards are meant to be nationwide, they have only been adopted by 35 states as it is not mandatory for states to subscribe to the Common Core unless they desire federal grants. The Common Core Initiative has been criticized as it has not yielded any noticeable improvement in what has almost 10 years since it has been implemented, due to a multiple reasons, from incorrect implementation to content as the idea of a centralized system for education has been criticized for not taking the dynamic differences in learning-style into consideration.\n\nThe newest addition to the growing list of government-led initiatives has been the Every Student Succeeds Act, or ESSA. The ESSA, enacted in December 2015, is Congress's replacement for the NCLB. The ESSA takes notes from both the RTTT and the NCLB, by keeping the standardized testing of the NCLB while allowing for the flexibility of the RTTT. The ESSA gives states more say in how schools are held accountable, and how states can act to fix issues at their schools, and as such, states can set long-term goals instead of having to worry about year-to-year performance issues as with the NCLB. States must still identify low performing schools and provide additional support, but now states can focus on long-term solutions. The new bill also focuses more on academic growth, which is subjective and does not always line up with a student's grade level, whereas the NCLB only cared whether students were performing to grade level. By combining the standardized test requirements of the NCLB while allowing for more state control like in the RTTT, the ESSA hopes to achieve long-lasting success and reform.\n\nInitiatives to close the achievement gap have been implemented at the school, district and state level in order to better address the issue. These include investments in pre-kindergarten programs, class size reduction, small schools, curricular reform, alignment of pre-kindergarten through college standards and expectations, and improved teacher education programs. Many schools have started implementing after-school activities such as tutoring sessions, remedial programs, and rapid assessment programs. These programs are meant to help minority students learn at a more accelerated rate in order to help them catch up to their peers. Other schools have started de-tracking their students in order to provide the same quality education for all students, regardless of race. De-tracking not only allows for all students to be taught in the same way, but it also opens up new opportunities for students who would be put on a certain career path by their education.\n\nAnother focus of reform directed toward the achievement gap has been on teacher development, as research shows that since teachers are responsible for almost every aspect of a child's education within the bounds of a classroom. Therefore, in order to best address the achievement gap, reform efforts based on improved teaching are one of the main strategies used to address the gap. This reform effort has been both top-down, in the form of higher state standards for teacher education and preparation, as well as bottom-up, through programs like Teach for America and AmeriCorps that aim to address educational inequity by recruiting and training teachers specifically to work in high-needs schools.\n\nOne strategy being used to address the achievement gap has been focusing on early childhood development. Economic research shows that investment at this stage is both more effective and cost effective than interventions later in a child's life. By helping develop critical skills early on, these programs cut out the need for such intervention later on. Head Start and various state-funded pre-kindergarten programs target students from low-income families in an attempt to level the playing field for these children before school begins. In addition to increased access, there has also an increased national focus on raising quality standards for Head Start and state-funded pre-K programs, and in improving training and professional development for early care providers.\n\nThere is substantial evidence pointing to early childhood development playing a huge role in closing the achievement gap: various studies, including the Carolina Abecedarian study, Child-Parent Center study, and HighScope Perry Preschool study, have shown that pre-K programs can have a positive and long-lasting impact on academic achievement of low-income and minority students. Furthermore, the role of early childhood education and development has been tied to success even out of the classroom. Pre-K programs help students develop social, emotional, and critical thinking skills at a young age, and while none of this prevents the effects of poverty, it does help in dampening the effects while also better preparing student for their future.\n\nSociologists Christopher Jencks and Meredith Phillips have argued that narrowing the black-white test score gap \"would do more to move [the United States] toward racial equality than any politically plausible alternative\". As already discussed, there is also strong evidence that narrowing the gap would have a significant positive economic and social impact.\n\nComputer and technology use have been linked to increased student achievement. “When teachers and administrators make a sustained commitment to the use of computers in the classroom, student achievement increases (Mann & Shafer, 1997). Randomized experiments demonstrate that the performance of low-achieving students can be improved by using technology that adjusts the level of difficulty of the books and math problems that are presented to each student, raises the probability that each student will achieve high scores on end-of-book reading comprehension quizzes and high accuracy scores on daily math assignments, raises the probability that each student can earn high letter grades, and creates a structured environment where each student is likely to receive regular, objective, positive feedback signaling that he or she is advancing on a daily basis, promoting high self-efficacy and a strong sense of control over academic outcomes. This demonstrates that it is possible to increase engagement, effort and performance, even when the tasks presented to each student become progressively more difficult, if technology is used to individualize task difficulty and create a structure where it is possible for all students to achieve high reading comprehension and math accuracy scores on a regular basis. A comparison of the cost-effectiveness of this approach indicates that it is more efficient than 22 other strategies for raising student achievement.\n\nGenerally, those students who enrolled and finished online courses were older college students (Fetzner, 2013; James, Swan, & Daston., 2016; Newell, 2007; Romero & Usart, 2014 ). Also, these students have better chance to perform higher self-efficacy scores (Xie & Huang, 2014) and future career ambitions or higher incomes (Carr, 2000; Park & Choi, 2009). Studies shows that online learners are tend to less likely to make friends and become socialized (Varela et al., 2012), while there's possible cause for example the experience of disappointing relationships in the context of education (Romero & Usart, 2014).\n\nAs Friedman (2007) claimed that the world is flat, online education has made the education becomes more accessible for a wider range of students. But there's also some counter points of online education for example: lack of technical support (Palmer & Holt, 2010; Yang & Cornelius, 2014); inadequate teacher support (Palmer & Holt, 2010); feeling of isolation (Reilly, Gallagher-Lepak, & Killion, 2012; Tucker, 2014; Yang & Cornelius, 2004).\n\nUsing technology as a tool for narrowing the achievement gap begins with a purpose, communication, listening, and collaboration. These skills can be achieved through the use of weblogs, social networking sites, feeds, and myriad other multimedia. In classrooms, students can communicate internally, or they can work side by side with others who are located thousands of miles away. Through the use of technology, presentations can be archived so that the material can be reviewed at any time. “All teachers could record important parts of what they do in the classroom that can then be archived to the class Weblog and used by students who may have missed the class or just want a refresher on what happened.” (Richardson, p. 117)\n\nHaving access to information on the web gives students an advantage to learning. “Students at all levels show more interest in their work and their ability to locate and reflect upon their work is greatly enhanced as are the opportunities for collaborative learning” (Richardson, p. 28). Weblogs are different from posts or comments; they require students to analyze and synthesize the content and communicate their understanding with the audience responses in mind. \nTechnology has been incorporated into the Standards. Even though the NCLB Act holds school districts accountable for student achievement, there are still many students who do not have the resources at home to fully take part in these excellent educational tools. Some teachers feel that technology is not the solution and see it as a risk. Therefore, technology is not always being used to its fullest potential by teachers and students do not gain the advantages technology offers. “Given the fact that the amount of information going online shows no sign of slowing, if they are unable to consistently collect potentially relevant information for their lives and careers and quickly discern what of that information is most useful, they will be at a disadvantage.” (Richardson, p. 73).\n\nAccording to the U.S. Census, by 2012, it is estimated that 70% of homes will have broadband access. While this is a large percentage, it still leaves 30% of households without internet access. The government has lent its hand in closing the Global Achievement Gap by granting funding for low-income school districts for programs such as one-on-one computing, however, the fact that many of these students do not have online capability at home is still a main issue. This digital divide may cause the achievement gap to increase as technology continues to become heavily integrated in the daily coursework for school children. Students need to have Internet access outside of school on a regular basis to successfully complete challenging courswork.\n\nAccording to National Center for Education Statistics, it noted that African American 12 grade male students had the lowest reading scores among other racial and ethnic group. Reading gaps between African Americans and Whites have increased from 1992 to present (National Center for Education Statistics, 2016). Tonsing-Meyer (2013) claimed that the reading and writing practice was specified and emphasized in 85% of online course assignment, with activities attached, which might improve this situation.\n\nExceptions to the achievement gap exist. Schools that are majority black, even poor, can perform well above national norms, with Davidson Magnet School in Augusta, Georgia being a prominent example. Another school with remarkable gains for students of color is Amistad Academy in New Haven, Connecticut.Additionally North Star Academy has been awarded the National Blue Ribbon School for two years in a row. These schools offer more rigorous, traditional modes of instruction, including Direct Instruction. In one study, Direct Instruction was found to be the single most effective pedagogical method for raising the skill levels of inner-city students (Project Follow Through).\n\nHigh performing Black schools are not unique to the twentieth century. In Washington, DC in the late 19th century, a predominantly low income Black school performed higher than three White schools in yearly testing. This trend continued until the mid 20th century, and during that time the M Street School exceeded national norms on standardized tests.\n\n (Issued August 2003) Educational attainment by race and gender: 2000\n\nAfrican Americans lagged behind whites in 2000 by nearly a factor of two. However, it is less frequently observed that whites lag behind Asians by nearly as large a ratio. The group with the least education is not the African Americans, but the American Indians, Hispanic or Latino or other groups who have quite a different legacy of discrimination. The African-American community is behind the curve in education but statistics show 9 out of 10 young black adults ages 25 to 29 have completed high school or its equivalent.\n\nIn 2008, over three million degrees were awarded throughout the United States. Half of all degrees earned were bachelor's degrees. The bachelor's degree is one of the most awarded degrees for all ethnicities and races. Asians obtained bachelor's degrees more than any other race, followed by Whites. Despite high educational expectations, Hispanics are among the least educated group in the United States: 11 percent of those over age 25 have earned a bachelor's degree or higher compared with 17 percent of blacks, 30 percent of whites, and 49 percent of Asian Americans in the same age group (U.S. Census Bureau, 2003). Asians obtain more first professional degrees than any other race. A high percentage of Hispanics and American Indians/Alaska Natives own an associate's degree compared with other races. About 1–2% doctorate degrees are awarded to all races. The table below shows the number of degrees awarded for each group.\n\nStatus and Trends in the Education of Racial and Ethnic Groups (\"Source: United States Department of Education - 2008\")\n\nBetween 1978 and 2008, college enrollment rates increased for all races. The college enrollment rate is determined by the percentage of high school students who enroll in two-year or four-year college and universities immediately after high school. In 2008, the college enrollment rate for all races was 69%. Although the college rate increased for each racial and ethnic group between 1980 and 2007, the enrollment rates for Blacks and Hispanics did not increase, and the college enrollment rate for Blacks increased from 44% to 56%. Between 1980 and 2007, the college enrollment rates for Hispanics have increased from 50% to 62%. In comparison, the same rate increased from 49.8% to 77.7% for Whites. There are no data for Asians or American Indians/Alaska Natives regarding enrollment rates from the 1980s to 2007.\n\nIn 2009, the enrollment rate of high school graduates reached a historical high of 70.1% (see above for statistics on the racial gap in graduation rates). Asian Americans have the highest enrollment rate (92.2%), followed by Whites (69.2%), Blacks (68.7%), and Hispanics (59.3%).\n\nParenting methods are different across cultures, thus can have dramatic influence on educational outcomes. For instance, Asian parents often apply strict rules and parental authoritarianism to their children while many white American parents deem creativity and self-sufficiency to be more valuable. \"Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother\" by Yale Professor Amy Chua highlights some of the very important aspects in Asian parenting method in comparison to the “American way”. Chua's book has generated interests and controversies in the “Tiger Mom” parenting method and its role in determining children's education outcomes. Many Hispanic parents and their children believe that a college degree is necessary for obtaining stable and meaningful work. This attitude is reflected in the educational expectations parents hold for their children and in the expectations that young people have for themselves (U.S. Department of Education, 1995b, p. 88). High educational expectations can be found among all racial and ethnic groups regardless of their economic and social resources (p. 73). Although parents and children share high educational aims, their aspirations do not necessarily translate into postsecondary matriculation. This is especially the case for Hispanic high school students, particularly those whose parents have not attended college.\n\nParental involvement in children's education is influential to children's success at school. Teachers often view low parental involvement as a barrier to student success. Collaboration between teachers and parents is necessary when working to help a child; parents have the necessary knowledge of what is best for their child's situation. However, the student body in schools is diverse, and although teachers make an effort to try and understand each child's unique cultural beliefs, it is important that they are meeting with parents to get a clear understanding of what needs should be met in order for the student to succeed. School administrators must accommodate and account for family differences and also be supportive by promoting ways families can get involved. For example, schools can provide support by accommodating the needs of the family who have do not have transportation, schools may do so by providing external resources that may benefit the family. As referenced by Feliciano et al. (2016), educators can also account for culture by providing education about the diversity at the school. This can be achieved by creating an environment where both teachers and students learn about cultures represented among the student population.\n\nLarocquem et al. (2011) stated that family involvement may include visiting their children's class, being involved with a parent teacher organization, attending school activities, speaking to the child's class, and volunteering at school events. It is also important for families to be involved with the child's school assignments, especially by holding them accountable for completion and discussion of the work assigned. Also, educators may want to consider how parental language barriers and educational experiences affect families and the influence of contributing to their child's education. In addition, even when families want to get involved, they may not know how to collaborate with school personnel, especially for families who are Hispanic, African American, and or of low economic status. A study done by Nistler and Maiers (2000), found that although different barriers for families may inhibit participation, families reported that they would want to participate nonetheless. Larocque et al. (2011) suggest that teachers need to find out what values and expectations are held for the child, which should be done by involving parents in the decision making process.\n\nAfrican Americans were once denied educations. Even as late as 1947, about one third of African Americans over 65 were considered to lack the literacy to read and write their own names. However, by 1969, illiteracy as it had been traditionally defined, had been largely eradicated among African Americans—the number of among young adults was less than one percent, though African Americans still lag in more stringent definitions of document literacy. Inability to read, write or speak English in America today is largely an issue for immigrants, mostly from Asia and Latin America.\n\n\"Illiteracy by age and race: 1947 to 1969\"\"In thousands except percent\"\"Civilian noninstitutional population 14 yrs and over\"\"Source: US census\"\n\nEducational attainment rates change when it comes to comparing the same races against immigrants or foreign born students. Black African and Caribbean immigrant groups to the U.S report having higher levels of education than any other group. Of all foreign-born U.S. residents, foreign born Africans (those who come from the African continent) nowadays have a higher level of educational attainment than any other racial or ethnic group in the United States. They tend to be highly educated and be fluent in English. This trend was first reported in the 1990s by the \"Journal of Blacks in Higher Education\", and still continues today.\n\nAccording to data from the 2000 United States Census, \"43.8 percent of African immigrants had achieved a college degree, compared with 42.5 of Asian Americans, 28.9 percent of immigrants from Europe, Russia and Canada and 23.1 percent of the U.S. population as a whole.\" The educational attainment amount varies by group. According to the U.S. Census, out of the African populations, Nigerians reported to having the highest level of education.\n\n\"Completed High School age 25-29 (1998)\"\nUS Census surveys showed that by 1998, 89 percent of African Americans age 25 to 29 had completed high school, lagging only slightly behind 93 percent for whites. For all over the age of 25, clear majorities of whites, Asian Americans and African Americans had graduated at 88 percent, 85 percent and 77 percent, respectively. 56 percent, or barely over half of Hispanics 25 and over, had completed high school.\n\nSAT scores vs income and race\n\nSource: 1995 College Board SAT Profiles\n\nConservative African American scholars such as Thomas Sowell observe that while SAT scores are lower for students with less parental education and income. Asian Americans who took the SAT with incomes below $10,000 score 482 in math in 1995, comparable to whites earning $30–40,000 and higher and blacks over $70,000. Test scores in middle-income black communities, such as Prince George County, are still not comparable to those in non-black suburbs.\n\nMost state tests showing African American failure rates anywhere from two to four times the rate of whites, such as Washington State's WASL test, and only half to one-quarter as likely to achieve a high score, even though these tests were designed to eliminate the negative effects of bias associated with standardized multiple choice tests. It is a top goal of education reform to eliminate the \"Education gap\" between all races, though skeptics question whether legislation such as No Child Left Behind truly closes the gap just by raising expectations. Others, such as Alfie Kohn, observe it may merely penalize those who do not score as well as the most educated ethnic and income groups.\n\n\"Scored Level 3 on WASL Washington Assessment of Student Learning, Mathematics Grade 4 (1997)\nData: Office Washington State Superintendent of Instruction\n\nThe amount of education completed varies greatly between members of religions in the United States. Hindus and Jews, for example, are more likely than general population to have completed a college education, whereas members of Evangelical churches, historically Black Protestant churches and Jehovah's Witness are less likely (21%, 15% and 12% respectively).\n\nUS religions ranked by percentage reporting a college degree:\n\nAs a whole, students in the United States lagged the best Asian and European nations in the TIMSS international math and science test. However, broken down by race, US Asians scored comparably to Asian nations, white Americans scored comparably to the best European nations. Although some racial generally score lower than whites in the US, they scored as well as whites in other European nations. Hispanic Americans averaged 505, comparable to students Austria and Sweden, while African Americans at 482 were comparable to Norway and Ukraine.\n\nAchievement gaps among students may also manifest themselves in the racial and ethnic composition of special education and gifted education programs. Typically, African American and Hispanic students are enrolled in greater numbers in special education programs than their numbers would indicate in most populations, while these groups are underrepresented in gifted programs. Research shows that these disproportionate enrollment trends may be a consequence of the differences in educational achievement among groups.\n\nFor the past fifty years, there has been a gap in the educational achievement of males and females in the United States, but which gender has been disadvantaged has fluctuated over the years. In the 1970s and 1980s, data showed girls trailing behind boys in a variety of academic performance measures, specifically in test scores in math and science.\n\nData in the last twenty years shows the general trend of girls outperforming boys in academic achievement in terms of class grades across all subjects and college graduation rates, but boys scoring higher on standardized tests and being better represented in the higher-paying and more prestigious STEM fields (science, technology, engineering, and math). Male students consistently achieved worse school marks than female students from 1913 to 2011 in all countries for which there is data.\n\nAs Fletcher (2015) indicated, possible factors that helped African American college students to gain academic success via online education might be: positive pre-college educational experiences, supportive environments in college campus, involving in campus activities, positive faculty interactions and support, same race/gender relationships with peers, family support, self-confidence, future career ambitions and the ability to face racism.Students of color like African American students need a color-blind environment to support them reaching towards academic success better. In this way they are more likely to gain self-confidence and educational resilience (Tucker, 2014).\n\nTraditionally, girls have outperformed boys in reading and writing. Although this gap may be minimal in kindergarten, it grows as students continue their education. According to the 2004 National Reading Assessment measured by the US Department of Education, the gap between boys and girls, only slightly noticeable in 4th grade, left boys 14 points behind girls during their 12th grade year. On the 2008 test, female students continued to have higher average reading scores than male students at all three ages. The gap between male and female 4th graders was 7 points in 2008. By 12th grade, there was an 11-point gap between males and females.\n\nOn the 2002 National Writing Assessment, boys scored on average 17 points lower than girls in 4th grade. The average gap increased to 21 points by 8th grade and widened to 24 points by senior year in high school. In the more recent 2007 National Assessment of Writing Skills, female students continued to score higher than male students, though margins closed slightly from previous assessments. The average score for female eighth-graders was 20 points higher than males, down 1 point from the 2002 score. For twelfth-graders, females outscored males by 18 points as opposed to 21 points in 2002.\n\nAll of these assessments were conducted on a 100-point scale.\n\nWhich gender is disadvantaged by the gap in math and science achievement largely depends on how academic achievement is being measured. Female students generally have better grades in their math classes, and this gap starts off very minimal but increases with age. However, males score higher on standardized math tests, and these score gaps also increase with age. Male students also score higher on measures of college readiness, such as the AP Calculus exams and the math section of the SAT.\n\nThe differences in National Assessment for Educational Progress (NAEP) math scores between boys and girls nearly double from the 9-year-olds to the 17-year-olds. This inconsistency in which gender shows more achievement could be due to the fact that class grades, especially in middle and high school, usually depend on a student's completion of homework assignments, and studies have shown that girls report spending more time on homework than boys. The gender gap in mathematics is particularly large among the highest-achieving students; for example, there is a 2.1 to 1 male-female ratio among students who score an 800 on the math portion of the SAT.\n\nAt least one study has challenged the existence of the gender gap in mathematics. In 2008 Janet Hyde and others published a study showing that male and female students did equally well on No Child Left Behind standardized tests that were administered in second through eleventh grades in ten states. However, Hyde and her team did find gaps that favored males at the upper end of the achievement distribution and tried to examine gaps on more difficult test questions (previous research has shown that males outperform females on more challenging items), but the tests they examined lacked adequately challenging items. This raised questions about whether there is still a gender gap in math achievement.\n\nThere is also a large discrepancy between the number of men and women working in STEM fields. Women have been, and continue to be, underrepresented in these fields. This underrepresentation is evident in the distribution of college majors among men and women; from 1997 to 2007, women earned only 18% of engineering bachelor's degrees.\n\nAccording to recent data, 55 percent of college students are females and 45 percent are males. From 1995 until 2005, the number of males enrolled in college increased by 18 percent, while the number of female students rose by 27 percent. Males are enrolling in college in greater numbers than ever before, yet fewer than two-thirds of them are graduating with a bachelor's degree. The numbers of both men and women receiving a bachelor's degree have increased significantly, but the increasing rate of female college graduates exceeds the increasing rate for males.\n\nIn 2014, the percentage of women with bachelor's degrees was higher than the percentage of men with bachelor's degrees for the first time in America. Women also earn more master's degrees and doctorates than men. \n\nAlthough more women are graduating with undergraduate degrees, men are still earning disproportionately more in their lifetimes. This could be due to many factors, including different types of jobs for males and females. Females are greatly underrepresented in science and engineering fields, which are typically correlated with high lifetime earnings. Males and females also have vastly different labor market histories based on type of job and time spent in each job.\n\nHow a student interacts with and is evaluated by his or her teachers is closely correlated with that student's future academic achievement. According to researcher Thomas Good, there are two competing views of how teachers can indirectly impact the achievement of their students. The first is that teachers are more likely to give special attention and extra assistance to students who appear to be struggling in their class. In reading and writing classes, male students are often behind female students in terms of achievement. Therefore, male students are more likely to get more teacher attention, and this extra interaction could give males an advantage in terms of future achievement. The second view is that teachers demand more and show more respect toward students who they view to be high achievers, which creates a cycle in which only students who are perceived to be intelligent receive extra help and teacher attention.\n\nHow teachers perceive students’ knowledge and abilities varies by gender and influences classroom processes and student achievement in both reading and math. Teachers usually have higher expectations for students they view as higher achievers and treat these students with more respect. A study by Tach and Farkas has also found that when students are split into reading groups based on their abilities, the students in the higher-ability reading groups are more likely to demonstrate positive learning behaviors and higher achievement.\n\nTeachers are more likely to favor girls when evaluating what types of readers students seem to be. Because studies have shown that teacher perceptions of students can determine how much individualized attention a student receives and can serve as an indicator of future academic progress, if teachers underestimate males’ reading abilities and use ability grouping in their classrooms, male students might be put at a disadvantage and have their learning in reading classes be negatively affected. The opposite trend has been found in math classes. Teachers still tend to view math as a “masculine” subject and tend to have higher expectations for and better attitude towards their male students in these classes.\n\nA study by Fennema et al. has also shown that teachers tend to name males when asked to list their “best math students.” Females are more likely than males to be negatively impacted than male students by this underestimation of their math abilities. These gender-specific evaluations from teachers are implicit; usually the teachers have no idea that they are favoring one gender over the other until they are shown concrete evidence, such as a video recording of their classroom. However, even though the discrimination is implicit, it still has negative effects on both male and female students.\n\nThere is conflicting evidence about whether teacher assessments of student performance and ability are consistent with cognitive assessments like standardized tests. Teacher assessment evidence comes from a relatively small number of classrooms when compared to standardized tests, which are administered in every public school in all fifty states.\n\nThere is speculation that gender stereotyping within classrooms can also lead to differences in academic achievement and representation for female and male students. Math and science are often perceived as “masculine” subjects because they lead to success in “masculine” fields, such as medicine and engineering. English and history, on the other hand, are often perceived as “feminine” subjects because they are more closely aligned with “feminine” jobs, such as teaching or care work. These stereotypes can influence student achievement in these areas.\n\nResearch on stereotype threat has shown that gender stereotypes decrease the mathematical self-esteem of many female students, and that this lack of academic confidence leads to anxiety and poorer performance on math exams.\n\nHow a child's parents view his or her skills can also contribute to the gender achievement gap in education. A study by Jacobs and Eccles has shown that adults rate female children as having better social skills than male children, and that girls are more likely to be seen as \"good children\" than boys. These gender-based stereotypes can perpetuate the gender achievement gap in education by influencing parents' perceptions of their children's skills, and these perceptions can influence the types of activities and subjects parents steer their children toward.\n\nThe gender achievement gap, measured by standardized test scores, suspensions, and absences, in favor of female students, is larger at worse schools and among lower-income households. So poverty and school quality are partially responsible for the gap. \n\nGirls tend to have better self-regulation skills than boys. Self-regulation skills correlate with time spent on homework and time spent taking notes in class. This contributes to girls getting better grades than boys in all subject. See Sex differences in psychology\n\nIt is important to address the gender achievement gap in education because failure to cultivate the academic talents of any one group will have aggregate negative consequences. If women are underrepresented in STEM fields, and if men are underrepresented in the social sciences and humanities, both genders are missing opportunities to develop diverse skill sets that can help them in the workplace.\n\nIf the gender achievement gap in education continues to exist, so does the stereotype that medicine, science, and engineering are all “masculine” fields and that women belong in fields like teaching, counseling, or social work. This stereotype can lead to the image that women who pursue careers in the STEM fields are seen as “nerdy” or “geeky,” and this can have a detrimental effect on the self-esteem of females who do choose to enter these fields.\n\nResearchers have found that the gender achievement gap has a large impact on the future career choices of high-achieving students. Part of this is a result of the college majors that men and women choose; men are more likely to major in engineering or the hard sciences, while women are more likely to receive degrees in English, psychology, or sociology. Therefore, men are statistically more likely to enter careers that have more potential for higher long-term earnings than women.\n\nThe careers that are aligned with these majors have different levels of prestige and different salaries, which can lead to a gender wage gap. U.S. Census data indicates that women who work full-time earn only 77% of what their male counterparts earn. For men and women who are ten years out of college, women earn only 69% of the salaries of their male workers.\n\nThere have been several studies done of interventions aimed at reducing the gender achievement gap in science classes. Some interventions, such as instituting mentoring programs aimed at women or restructuring the course curriculum, have had limited success. The most successful interventions have been a form of psychological interventions called values affirmation. In a famous study of women's achievement in college science by Miyake et al., values affirmation was successful in reducing the differences between male and female academic achievement in college-level introductory physics classes, and it has been particularly effective at combating the psychological phenomenon known as stereotype threat.\n\nValues affirmation exercises require students to either write about their most important values or their least important values two times at the beginning of the 15-week course. After this intervention, the modal grades of women enrolled in the course increased from a C to a B. Psychological interventions such as this one show promise for increasing women's achievement in math and science courses and reducing the achievement gap that exists between the genders in these subject areas, but further research will need to be done in order to determine whether the positive effects are long-lasting.\n\nAnother explanation to address this educational gap is the lack of resources attainable by certain groups of students. A study found that there is a need for financial literacy for students enrolled in colleges and universities. Specifically, there is a need for student knowledge about loans, budgeting, and time requirements for degree completion . Focus group results in the same study concluded that students in search of financial aid information believe that there will be a lack of understanding among advisors and staff regarding minority student's cultural/identity based circumstances. As a result of this belief, many students rather just not seek any services. \n\nOn the high school level, a report finds that the greater the amount of people of color enrolled at any particular school, the less likely that school has any computer science courses whatsoever . Nationwide economics indicate 1.3 million new jobs in the tech industry by 2022. Meanwhile, African Americans and Latinos only make up about 5 percent of the technical work force. \n\nSupplemental funding for targeted disadvantaged school districts in Ohio showed a reduction in performance gaps between disadvantaged districts and other districts. Supplementing state funds for the districts with higher amount of disadvantaged students produced benefits in the form of student achievement. IDA's or individual development account initiatives introduced in the 1990s to address poverty was found on the belief that poor family's should have access to asset development in order to break the cycle of poverty. As of now most IDA's main focus is on home ownership or starting small businesses. There has been a push for partnerships between community agencies and higher education institutions that would offer IDA's to encourage lower income individuals to turn towards higher education. \n\n\nGeneral:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50213084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50213084", "title": "Anti-union violence in the United States", "text": "Anti-union violence in the United States\n\nAnti-union violence in the United States is physical force intended to harm union officials, union organizers, union members, union sympathizers, or their families. It has most commonly been used either during union organizing efforts, or during strikes. The aim most often is to prevent a union from forming, to destroy an existing union, or to reduce the effectiveness of a union or a particular strike action. If strikers prevent people or goods to enter or leave a workplace, violence may be used to allow people and goods to pass the picket line.\n\nViolence against unions may be isolated, or may occur as part of a campaign that includes spying, intimidation, impersonation, disinformation, and sabotage. Violence in labor disputes may be the result of unreasonable polarization, or miscalculation. It may be willful and provoked, or senseless and tragic. On some occasions, violence in labor disputes may be purposeful and calculated, for example the hiring and deployment of goon squads to intimidate, threaten or even assault strikers.\n\nHistorically, violence against unions has included attacks by detective and guard agencies, such as the Pinkertons, Baldwin Felts, Burns, or Thiel detective agencies; citizens groups, such as the Citizens' Alliance; company guards; police; national guard; or even the military. In particular, there are few curbs on what detective agencies are able to get away with. In the book \"From Blackjacks To Briefcases\", Robert Michael Smith states that during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, anti-union agencies spawned violence and wreaked havoc on the labor movement. One investigator who participated in a congressional inquiry into industrial violence in 1916 concluded that,\nEspionage is closely related to violence. Sometimes it is the direct cause of violence, and, where that cannot be charged, it is often the indirect cause. If the secret agents of employers, working as members of the labor unions, do not always investigate acts of violence, they frequently encourage them. If they did not, they would not be performing the duties for which they are paid, for they are hired on the theory that labor organizations are criminal in character.\nIn U.S. Senate testimony in 1936 about an employer who wanted to contract with the Pinkerton agency. Known personally to the author of the book \"The Pinkerton Story\", this employer was characterized as a \"sincerely upright and Godly man.\" Yet Pinkerton files record that the employer wanted the agency \"to send in some thugs who could beat up the strikers.\" In 1936, the Pinkerton agency changed its focus from strike-breaking to undercover services. Pinkerton declined the request from this employer.\n\nAccording to Morris Friedman, detective agencies were themselves for-profit companies, and a \"bitter struggle\" between capital and labor could be counted upon to create \"satisfaction and immense profit\" for agencies such as the Pinkerton company. Such agencies were in the perfect position to fan suspicion and mistrust \"into flames of blind and furious hatred\" on the part of the companies.\n\nHarry Wellington Laidler wrote a book in 1913 detailing how one of the largest union busters in the United States, Corporations Auxiliary Company, had a sales pitch offering the use of provocation and violence. The agency would routinely tell employers — prospective clients — of the methods used by their undercover operatives,\nOnce the union is in the field its members can keep it from growing if they know how, and our man knows how. Meetings can be set far apart. A contract can at once be entered into with the employer, covering a long period, and made very easy in its terms. However, these tactics may not be good, and the union spirit may be so strong that a big organization cannot be prevented. In this case our man turns extremely radical. He asks for unreasonable things and keeps the union embroiled in trouble. If a strike comes, he will be the loudest man in the bunch, and will counsel violence and get somebody in trouble. The result will be that the union will be broken up.\"\n\nSome anti-union violence appears to be random, such as an incident during the 1912 textile strike in Lawrence, Massachusetts, in which a police officer fired into a crowd of strikers, killing Anna LoPizzo.\n\nAnti-union violence may be used as a means to intimidate others, as in the hanging of union organizer Frank Little from a railroad trestle in Butte, Montana. A note was pinned to his body which said, \"Others Take Notice! First And Last Warning!\" The initial of the last names of seven well-known union activists in the Butte area were on the note, with the \"L\" for Frank Little circled.\n\nAnti-union violence may be abrupt and unanticipated. Three years after Frank Little was lynched, a strike by Butte miners was suppressed with gunfire when deputized mine guards suddenly fired upon unarmed picketers in the Anaconda Road Massacre. Seventeen were shot in the back as they tried to flee, and one man died.\n\nThe unprovoked attack was similar to another event, which had occurred twenty-three years earlier in Pennsylvania. During the Lattimer massacre, nineteen unarmed immigrant coal miners were suddenly gunned down at the Lattimer mine near Hazleton, Pennsylvania, on September 10, 1897. The miners, mostly of Polish, Slovak, Lithuanian and German ethnicity, were shot and killed by a Luzerne County sheriff's posse. In this group as well, all of the miners had been shot in the back. The shooting followed a brief tussle over the American flag carried by the miners. Their only crime was asserting their right to march in the face of demands that they disperse.\n\nIn 1927, during a coal strike in Colorado, state police and mine guards fired pistols, rifles and a machine gun into a group of five hundred striking miners and their wives in what came to be called the Columbine Mine Massacre. In this incident as well, many of the miners were immigrants, and there had been a disagreement over the question of trespassing onto company property in the town of Serene, with the miners asserting it was public property because of the post office. There was, once again, a tussle over American flags carried by the strikers.\n\nWhile the Columbine mine shooting was a surprise, newspapers played a deadly role in conjuring the atmosphere of hate in which the violence occurred. Lurid editorials attacked the ethnicity of the strikers. Newspapers began calling for the governor to no longer withhold the \"mailed fist\", to strike hard and strike swiftly, and for \"Machine Guns Manned By Willing Shooters\" at more of the state's coal mines. Within days of these editorials, state police and mine guards fired on the miners and their wives, injuring dozens and killing six.\n\nIn all of the above incidents, the perpetrators were never caught, or went unpunished. An exception resulted from a shooting of strikers at the Williams & Clark Fertilizing Company near the Liebig Fertilizer Works at Carteret, New Jersey in 1915. One striker was killed outright, and more than twenty were injured in an unprovoked attack when deputies fired on strikers who had stopped a train to check for strikebreakers. The strikers found no strikebreakers, and were cheering as they exited the train. Forty deputies approached and suddenly fired on them with revolvers, rifles, and shotguns. As the strikers ran, \"the deputies ... pursued, firing again and again.\" According to attending physicians, all the strikers' wounds were on the backs or legs, indicating the guards were pursuing them. A local government official who witnessed the shooting called it entirely unprovoked. Four more of the strikers, all critically injured, would die. Twenty-two of the guards were arrested and the crime was investigated by a Grand Jury; nine deputies were subsequently convicted of manslaughter.\n\nOther anti-union violence may seem orchestrated, as in 1914 when mine guards and the state militia fired into a tent colony of striking miners in Colorado, an incident that came to be known as the Ludlow Massacre. During that strike, the company hired the Baldwin Felts agency, which built an armored car so their agents could approach the strikers' tent colonies with impunity. The strikers called it the \"Death Special\". At the Forbes tent colony,\n\"[The Death Special] opened fire, a protracted spurt that sent some six hundred bullets tearing through the thin tents. One of the shots struck miner Luka Vahernik, fifty, in the head, killing him instantly. Another striker, Marco Zamboni, eighteen ... suffered nine bullet wounds to his legs... One tent was later found to have about 150 bullet holes...\" \nAfter deaths of women and children at Ludlow,\n[T]he backlash was vicious and bloody. Over the next ten days striking miners poured out their rage in attacks across the coalfields... \nThe U.S. Army was called upon to put an end to the violence, and the strike sputtered to an end that December.\n\nAnti-union violence may be devious and subtle, as when union busting specialist Martin Jay Levitt assigned confederates to scratch up cars in the parking lot of a nursing home during an organizing drive, and then blamed it on the union as part of an anti-union campaign.\nAs a result of Operative Smith's \"clever and intelligent\" work, a number of union organizers received severe beatings at the hands of unknown masked men, presumably in the employ of the company.\nFriedman offers examples of these incidents:\nAbout February 13, 1904, William Farley, of Alabama, a member of the [UMWA] National Executive Board ... and the personal representative of [UMWA] President Mitchell ... addressed coal miners' meetings ... [on their return trip] eight masked men held them up with revolvers, dragged them from their wagon, threw them to the ground, beat them, kicked them, and almost knocked them into insensibility.\nAnd,\nOn Saturday, April 30, 1904, W.M. Wardjon, a national organizer of the United Mine Workers, while on board a train en route to Pueblo, was assaulted by three men at Sargents, about thirty miles west of Salida. Mr. Wardjon was beaten into unconsciousness.\nMorris Friedman accused the Colorado Fuel and Iron Company (CF&I), operated by John D. Rockefeller and his lieutenant in Colorado, Jesse Welborn, of responsibility for the beatings during the 1903-04 strike.\n\nSometimes, there is simultaneous violence on both sides. In an auto workers strike organised by Victor Reuther and others in 1937, \"[u]nionists assembled rocks, steel hinges, and other objects to throw at the cops, and police organized tear gas attacks and mounted charges.\"\n\nA study of industrial violence in 1969 concluded, \"There is no episode in American labor history in which violence was as systematically used by employers as in the Colorado labor war of 1903 and 1904.\"\n\nAbout the middle of February, 1904, leadership of the Colorado National Guard became concerned that the Mine Owners were failing to cover the payroll of the soldiers. General Reardon ordered Major Ellison to take another soldier he could trust to \"hold up or shoot the men coming off shift at the Vindicator mine\" in order to convince the mine owners to pay. The implication of the secrecy was, the incident would then be blamed on the union.\n\nHowever, Major Ellison reported that the miners took a route out of the mine that would not make ambush possible. Reardon ordered Ellison to pursue an alternative plan, which was shooting up one of the mines. Major Ellison and Sergeant Gordon Walter fired sixty shots into two mine buildings. The plan worked, and the mine owners paid up. Ellison would later testify (in October 1904) that General Reardon informed him \nAdjutant General Sherman Bell and Colorado Governor James Peabody knew about the plan. Major Ellison's testimony about the shooting plot, and about the staged attacks on striking miners, was corroborated by two other soldiers.\n\nProfessor James H. Brewster, a faculty attorney with the University of Colorado who was investigating the strike for Governor Ammons, was aware that militia Lieutenant Karl Linderfelt was guilty of abuse and beatings of innocent citizens, including a small Greek boy \"whose head was split open\". Professor Brewster sent a telegram to Governor Ammons requesting Linderfelt's removal. No action was taken. In a subsequent face to face meeting with the governor, three months prior to the Ludlow Massacre, Brewster again insisted that Linderfelt be removed, but again, Ammons declined. In later testimony, Professor Brewster stated that Linderfelt was the reason for the massacre. On the day that the Ludlow Massacre occurred, Lieutenant Karl Linderfelt, commander of one of two companies of the Colorado National Guard, had Louis Tikas, leader of the Ludlow tent colony of striking miners, at gunpoint. Tikas was unarmed, and the miners would later explain that he approached the militia to ask them to stop shooting. While two militiamen held Tikas, Linderfelt broke a rifle butt over his head. Tikas and two other captured miners were later found shot dead. Tikas had been shot in the back. Their bodies lay along the Colorado and Southern railroad tracks for three days in full view of passing trains. The militia officers refused to allow them to be moved until a local of a railway union demanded the bodies be taken away for burial. A court martial found Lieutenant Linderfelt guilty of assaulting Tikas with a Springfield rifle, \"but attaches no criminality thereto. And the court does therefor acquit him.\"\n\nIn 1916, the Commission on Industrial Relations, created by the U.S. Congress, issued a final report on its investigation of industrial unrest. On the question of violence in industrial disputes, the Commission stated, in part,\nMany instances of the use of physical force by the agents of employers have ... come before the Commission, indicating a relatively wide use, particularly in isolated communities.\n\nBy the early 1900s, public tolerance for violence during labor disputes began to decrease. Yet violence involving strikebreaking troops and armed guards continued into the 1930s. The level of violence that anti-union agencies engaged in eventually resulted in their tactics becoming increasingly public, for there were a very great number of newspaper and muckraking articles written about such incidents. Resources that once were allocated to overt control over workforces began to be assigned to other methods of control, such as industrial espionage. After the Great Depression in 1929, the public no longer considered companies unassailable. Yet legislation related to employer strategies such as violent strike breaking would have to wait until after World War II. Beginning in the 1950s, employers began to embrace new methods of managing workers and unions which were still effective, but much more subtle.\n\nA 1969 study of labor conflict violence in the United States examined the era following the 1947 passage of the Taft-Hartley Act, and noted that attacks on strikers by company guards had all but disappeared. Violence still occurs in labor disputes, for example, when one side miscalculates. Bringing in outside security forces, as one example, can lead to violence in modern labor disputes.\n\nThe use of cameras and camcorders may affect levels of violence in labor disputes today.\n\n\nSometimes, threats of violence cause damage to union members or supporters. Other times, threats against unions or their members may backfire. For example, Indiana Deputy Attorney General Jeffrey Cox was fired after suggesting that Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker should use live ammunition against pro-union protesters involved in the 2011 Wisconsin protests. More recently, a Deputy Prosecutor in Indiana's Johnson County, Carlos Lam, suggested that Governor Walker should mount a \"false flag\" operation which would make it \"appear\" as if the union was committing violence. After initially claiming that his email account was hacked, Lam admitted to sending the suggestion and resigned.\n\nCullen Werwie, press secretary for Governor Walker, states that Walker's office was unaware of Lam's email. According to CBS News, Werwie also commented, \"Certainly we do not support the actions suggested in (the) email. Governor Walker has said time and again that the protesters have every right to have their voice heard, and for the most part the protests have been peaceful. We are hopeful that the tradition will continue.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "650189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650189", "title": "Binary clock", "text": "Binary clock\n\nA binary clock is a clock that displays the time of day in a binary format. Originally, such clocks showed \"each decimal digit\" of sexagesimal time as a binary value, but presently binary clocks also exist which display hours, minutes, and seconds as binary numbers. Most binary clocks are digital, although analog varieties exist. True binary clocks also exist, which indicate the time by successively halving the day, instead of using hours, minutes, or seconds. Similar clocks, based on Gray coded binary, also exist. \n\nMost common binary clocks use six columns of LEDs to represent zeros and ones. Each column represents a single decimal digit, a format known as binary-coded decimal (BCD). The bottom row in each column represents 1 (or 2), with each row above representing higher powers of two, up to 2 (or 8). \n\nTo read each individual digit in the time, the user adds the values that each illuminated LED represents, then reads these from left to right. The first two columns represent the hour, the next two represent the minute and the last two represent the second. Since zero digits are not illuminated, the positions of each digit must be memorized if the clock is to be usable in the dark.\n\nBinary clocks that display time in binary-coded sexagesimal also exist. Instead of representing each digit of traditional sexagesimal time with one binary number, each component of traditional sexagesimal time is represented with one binary number, that is, using up to 6 bits instead of only 4.\n\nFor 24-hour binary-coded sexagesimal clocks, there are 11 or 17 LED lights to show us the time. There are 5 LEDs to show the hours, there are 6 LEDs to show the minutes, and there are 6 LEDs to show the seconds. 6 LEDs to show the seconds are not needed in 24-hour binary-coded sexagesimal clocks with 11 LED lights.\n\nA format exists also where hours, minutes and seconds are shown on three lines instead of columns as binary numbers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2502980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2502980", "title": "Civil courage", "text": "Civil courage\n\nCivil courage is a type of courage, related closely to heroism, in which a person acts bravely to intervene in a social situation.\n\nItalian journalist and writer (1925-1996) wrote, \"Je mehr Bürger mit Zivilcourage ein Land hat, desto weniger Helden wird es einmal brauchen\" (\"The more citizens with civil courage which a country has, the fewer heroes it needs\").\n\nCivil courage has been referred to by psychologist Tobias Greitemeyer as constituting acts of bravery, carried out with the objective of enforcing a societal or ethical standard, without concern for the effect these acts might have on one’s own position. In this way it is distinguished from altruistic behavior and other forms of courage. \n\nIn the case of altruistic, helping behavior, an individual might expect to be praised or receive positive social consequences from the result of their having helped, despite possible financial or material loss. In actions where civil courage is demonstrated, the person carrying out the action may experience negative social consequences such as alienation, verbal abuse or violence. Civil courage is displayed when a person, in spite of the perceived threat of negative consequences acts to intervene in a social context. \n\n"}
{"id": "691634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=691634", "title": "Clubsuit", "text": "Clubsuit\n\nIn mathematics, and particularly in axiomatic set theory, ♣ (clubsuit) is a family of combinatorial principles that are a weaker version of the corresponding ◊; it was introduced in 1975.\n\nFor a given cardinal number formula_1 and a stationary set formula_2, formula_3 is the statement that there is a sequence formula_4 such that\n\nformula_8 is usually written as just formula_9.\n\nIt is clear that ◊ ⇒ ♣, and it was shown in 1975 that ♣ + CH ⇒ ◊; however, Saharon Shelah gave a proof in 1980 that there exists a model of ♣ in which CH does not hold, so ♣ and ◊ are not equivalent (since ◊ ⇒ CH).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8733961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8733961", "title": "Composition of Causes", "text": "Composition of Causes\n\nThe Composition of Causes was a set of philosophical laws advanced by John Stuart Mill in his watershed essay \"A System of Logic\". These laws outlined Mill's view of the epistemological components of emergentism, a school of philosophical laws that posited a decidedly opportunistic approach to the classic dilemma of causation nullification. \n\nMill was determined to prove that the intrinsic properties of all things relied on three primary tenets, which he called the Composition of Causes. These were:\n\n1. The Cause of Inherent Efficiency, a methodological understanding of deterministic forces engaged in the perpetual axes of the soul, as it pertained to its own self-awareness.\n\n2. The so-called Sixth Cause, a conceptual notion embodied by the system of inter-related segments of social and elemental vitra. This was a hotly debated matter in early 17th-century philosophical circles, especially in the halls of the Reichtaven in Meins, where the spirit of Geudl still lingered.\n\n3. The Cause of Multitude, an evolutionary step taken from Hemmlich's Plurality of a Dysfunctional Enterprise, detailing the necessary linkage between both sets of perception-based self-awareness.\n\nFurthermore, the Composition of Causes elevated Mill's standing in ontological circles, lauded by his contemporaries for applying a conceptual vision of an often-argued discipline.\n\n"}
{"id": "1733926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1733926", "title": "Conation", "text": "Conation\n\nConation (from the Latin \"conatus\") is any natural tendency, impulse, striving, or directed effort. The conative is one of three parts of the mind, along with the affective and cognitive. In short, the cognitive part of the brain has to do with intelligence, the affective deals with emotions and the conative drives how one acts on those thoughts and feelings.\n\nThe term \"conation\" is no longer widely known—it is in \"The 1,000 Most Obscure Words in the English Language,\" defined as \"the area of one's active mentality that has to do with desire, volition and striving,\" but there are several references to conation as the third faculty of the mind.\n\n\"Conation\" is defined by Funk & Wagnalls \"Standard Comprehensive International Dictionary\" (1977) as \"the aspect of mental process directed by change and including impulse, desire, volition and striving,\" and by the Living Webster \"Encyclopedia Dictionary of the English Language\" (1980) as \"one of the three modes, together with cognition and affection, of mental function; a conscious effort to carry out seemingly volitional acts.\" \"The Encyclopedia of Psychology \"Motivation: Philosophical Theories\"\" says, \"Some mental states seem capable of triggering action, while others—such as cognitive states—apparently have a more subordinate role [in terms of motivation] ... some behavior qualifies as motivated action, but some does not.\"\n\nAbraham Maslow, the creator of \"Maslow's hierarchy of needs\", discussed the idea of conation in his widely cited work \"A Theory of Human Motivation\". In his work, he states that cognition is itself conative. That is, that the desire to know comes from an act of will, that effectively therefore conation is prepotent to cognition. \"We must guard ourselves against the too easy tendency to separate [the desire to know] from the basic needs we have discussed above, i.e., to make a sharp dichotomy between 'cognitive' and 'conative' needs. The desire to know and to understand are themselves conative, i.e., have a striving character, and are as much personality needs as the 'basic needs' we have already discussed.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8549696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8549696", "title": "DOCAM", "text": "DOCAM\n\nDOCAM (Documentation and Conservation of the Media Arts Heritage) is an international research alliance on the documentation and the conservation of the media arts heritage.\n\nDOCAM's main objective is to develop new methodologies and tools to address the issues of preserving and documenting digital art, technological and electronic works of art. Over the project's five-year mandate, numerous case studies will be conducted that will focus on documentary collections and conserving works of art featuring technological content.\n\nDOCAM's key areas of focus include:\n\nThe DOCAM research alliance is composed of some 20 institutional partners from around the world. It also brings together more than 20 specialists and researchers in domains such as new media art preservation, the cataloguing of museum collections, art history, information management, archival science, art documentation and computer science. The project is supported by the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRC) and the Daniel Langlois Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "531257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=531257", "title": "Definitions of terrorism", "text": "Definitions of terrorism\n\nThere is no universal agreement on the definition of terrorism. Various legal systems and government agencies use different definitions. Moreover, governments have been reluctant to formulate an agreed upon and legally binding definition. These difficulties arise from the fact that the term is politically and emotionally charged. In the United States of America, for example, Terrorism is defined in Title 22 Chapter 38 U.S. Code § 2656f as \"premeditated, politically motivated violence perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational groups or clandestine agents.\"\n\n\nThe following criteria of violence or threat of violence fall outside of the definition of terrorism:\n\nThere are many reasons as to why there is no universal consensus regarding the definition of terrorism. Angus Martyn in a briefing paper for the Australian Parliament has stated that \"The international community has never succeeded in developing an accepted comprehensive definition of terrorism. During the 1970s and 1980s, the United Nations attempts to define the term foundered mainly due to differences of opinion between various members about the use of violence in the context of conflicts over national liberation and self-determination.\" These divergences have made it impossible to conclude a Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism that incorporates a single, all-encompassing, legally binding, criminal law definition of terrorism.\n\nIn the meantime, the international community adopted a series of sectoral conventions that define and criminalize various types of terrorist activities. In addition, since 1994, the United Nations General Assembly has condemned terrorist acts using the following political description of terrorism: \"Criminal acts intended or calculated to provoke a state of terror in the general public, a group of persons or particular persons for political purposes are in any circumstance unjustifiable, whatever the considerations of a political, philosophical, ideological, racial, ethnic, religious or any other nature that may be invoked to justify them.\"\n\nA 2003 study by Jeffrey Record for the United States Army quoted a source (Schmid and Jongman 1988) that counted 109 definitions of terrorism that covered a total of 22 different definitional elements. Record continued \"Terrorism expert Walter Laqueur also has counted over 100 definitions and concludes that the 'only general characteristic generally agreed upon is that terrorism involves violence and the threat of violence.' Yet terrorism is hardly the only enterprise involving violence and the threat of violence. So does war, coercive diplomacy, and bar room brawls\".\n\nThe term \"terrorism\" comes from French , from , \"great fear\", \"dread\", related to the Latin verb , \"to frighten\". The was a panic and state of emergency in Rome in response to the approach of warriors of the Cimbri tribe in 105 BCE. The French National Convention declared in September 1793 that \"terror is the order of the day\". The period 1793–94 is referred to as (Reign of Terror). Maximilien Robespierre, a leader in the French revolution proclaimed in 1794 that \"Terror is nothing other than justice, prompt, severe, inflexible.\"\n\nThe Committee of Public Safety agents that enforced the policies of \"The Terror\" were referred to as \"Terrorists\". The word \"terrorism\" was first recorded in English-language dictionaries in 1798 as meaning \"systematic use of terror as a policy\".\n\nAlthough the Reign of Terror was imposed by the French government, in modern times \"terrorism\" usually refers to the killing of people by non-governmental political activists for political reasons, often as a public statement. This meaning originated with Russian radicals in the 1870s. Sergey Nechayev, who founded the \"People's Reprisal\" (Народная расправа) in 1869, described himself as a \"terrorist\". German radicalist writer Johann Most helped popularize the modern sense of the word by dispensing \"advice for terrorists\" in the 1880s.\n\nAccording to Myra Williamson: \"The meaning of \"terrorism\" has undergone a transformation. During the reign of terror a regime or system of terrorism was used as an instrument of governance, wielded by a recently established revolutionary state against the enemies of the people. Now the term \"terrorism\" is commonly used to describe terrorist acts committed by \"non-state or subnational entities\" against a state.\"\n\nBen Saul has noted that a \"A combination of pragmatic and principled arguments supports the case for defining terrorism in international law\", including the need to condemn violations to human rights, to protect the state and deliberative politics, to differentiate public and private violence, and to ensure international peace and security.\nCarlos Diaz-Paniagua, who coordinated the negotiations of the proposed United Nations Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, noted, on his part, the need to provide a precise definition of terrorist activities in international law: \"Criminal law has three purposes: to declare that a conduct is forbidden, to prevent it, and to express society's condemnation for the wrongful acts. The symbolic, normative role of criminalization is of particular importance in the case of terrorism. The criminalization of terrorist acts expresses society's repugnance at them, invokes social censure and shame, and stigmatizes those who commit them. Moreover, by creating and reaffirming values, criminalization may serve, in the long run, as a deterrent to terrorism, as those values are internalized.\" Thus, international criminal law treaties that seek to prevent, condemn and punish terrorist activities, require precise definitions:\n\nSaul noted in this sense that, missing a generally agreed, all-encompassing, definition of the term:\nDiaz-Paniagua has noted that, to \"...create an effective legal regime against terrorism, it would be necessary to formulate a comprehensive definition of that crime that, on the one hand, provides the strongest moral condemnation to terrorist activities while, on the other hand, has enough precision to permit the prosecution of criminal activities without condemning acts that should be deemed to be legitimate. Nonetheless, due to major divergences at the international level on the question of the legitimacy of the use of violence for political purposes, either by states or by self-determination and revolutionary groups, this has not yet been possible.\" In this sense, M. Cherif Bassiouni notes:\n\nSami Zeidan, a Lebanese diplomat and scholar, explained the political reasons underlying the current difficulties to define terrorism as follows:\nIn the same vein, Jason Burke, a British reporter who writes about radical Islamist activity, said:\n\nThe political and emotional connotation of the term \"terrorism\" makes difficult its use in legal discourse. In this sense, Saul notes that: \nHistorically, the dispute on the meaning of terrorism arose since the laws of war were first codified in 1899. The Martens Clause was introduced as a compromise wording for the dispute between the Great Powers who considered francs-tireurs to be unlawful combatants subject to execution on capture, and smaller states who maintained that they should be considered lawful combatants.\n\nMore recently the 1977 Protocol Additional to the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949, and relating to the Protection of Victims of International Armed Conflicts, which applies in situations Article 1. Paragraph 4 \"... in which peoples are fighting against colonial domination and alien occupation and against racist regimes...\", contains many ambiguities that cloud the issue of who is or is not a legitimate combatant. \nThese difficulties have led Pamala Griset to conclude that: \"the meaning of terrorism is embeded in a person's or nation's philosophy. Thus, the determination of the 'right' definition of terrorism is subjective.\" \n\nTo elaborate an effective legal regime to prevent and punish international terrorism—rather than only working on a single, all-encompassing, comprehensive definition of terrorism—the international community has also adopted a \"...'sectoral' approach aimed at identifying offences seen as belonging to the activities of terrorists and working out treaties in order to deal with specific categories thereof\". The treaties that follow this approach focus on the wrongful nature of terrorist activities rather than on their intent:\n\nFollowing this approach, the international community has adopted the following sectoral counter-terrorism conventions, open to the ratification of all states:\n\n\nAnalyzing these treaties, Andrew Byrnes observed that: \nByrnes notes that \"this act-specific approach to addressing problems of terrorism in binding international treaties has continued up until relatively recently. Although political denunciation of terrorism in all its forms had continued apace, there had been no successful attempt to define 'terrorism' as such in a broad sense that was satisfactory for legal purposes. There was also some scepticism as to the necessity, desirability and feasibility of producing an agreed and workable general definition.\" Nonetheless, since 2000, the United Nations General Assembly has been working on a proposed Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism.\n\nThe international community has worked on two comprehensive counter-terrorism treaties, the League of Nations' 1937 Convention for the Prevention and Punishment of Terrorism, which never entered into force, and the United Nations' proposed Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, which hasn't been finalized yet.\n\nIn the late 1930s, the international community made a first attempt at defining terrorism. Article 1.1 of the League of Nations' 1937 Convention for the prevention and punishment of Terrorism, which never entered into force, defined \"acts of terrorism\" as \"criminal acts directed against a State and intended or calculated to create a state of terror in the minds of particular persons or a group of persons or the general public\". Article 2 included as terrorist acts, if they were directed against another state and if they constituted acts of terrorism within the meaning of the definition contained in article 1, the following:\n\nSince 2000, the United Nations General Assembly has been negotiating a Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism. The definition of the crime of terrorism, which has been on the negotiating table since 2002 reads as follows:\nAmong the negotiators, that definition is not controversial in itself; the deadlock in the negotiations arises instead from the opposing views on whether such a definition would be applicable to the armed forces of a state and to self-determination movements. Thalif Deen described the situation as follows: \"The key sticking points in the draft treaty revolve around several controversial yet basic issues, including the definition of ´terrorism´. For example, what distinguishes a \"terrorist organisation\" from a 'liberation movement'? And do you exclude activities of national armed forces, even if they are perceived to commit acts of terrorism? If not, how much of this constitutes 'state terrorism'?\" The coordinator of the negotiations, supported by most western delegations, proposed the following exceptions to address those issues:\nThe state members of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference proposed instead the following exceptions:\nThe various sectoral counter-terrorism conventions defines as terrorist particular categories of activities.\n\nArticle 2.1 of the 1997 International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings defines the offence of terrorist bombing as follows:\n\nArticle 19 expressly excluded from the scope of the convention certain activities of state armed forces and of self-determination movements as follows:\nArticle 2.1 of the 1999 sectoral United Nations International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism (Terrorist Financing Convention) defines the crime of terrorist financing as the offence committed by \"any person\" who \"by any means, directly or indirectly, unlawfully and wilfully, provides or collects funds with the intention that they should be used or in the knowledge that they are to be used, in full or in part, in order to carry out\" an act \"intended to cause death or serious bodily injury to a civilian, or to any other person not taking an active part in the hostilities in a situation of armed conflict, when the purpose of such act, by its nature or context, is to intimidate a population, or to compel a government or an international organization to do or to abstain from doing any act.\"\n\nThe 2005 United Nations International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism defines the crime of nuclear terrorism as follows:\nArticle 4 of the convention expressly excluded from the application of the convention the use of nuclear weapons during armed conflicts without, though, recognizing the legality of the use of those weapons:\nIn parallel with the criminal law codification efforts, some United Nations organs have put forward some broad political definitions of terrorism.\n\nA 1996 non-binding United Nations Declaration to Supplement the 1994 Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism, annexed to the UN General Assembly Resolution 51/210, described terrorist activities in the following terms:\nAntonio Cassese has argued that the language of this and other similar UN declarations \"sets out an acceptable definition of terrorism.\"\n\nIn 2004, United Nations Security Council Resolution 1566 condemned terrorist acts as:\nAlso in 2004, a High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change composed of independent experts and convened by the Secretary-General of the United Nations called states to set aside their differences and to adopt, in the text of a proposed Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, the following political \"description of terrorism\":\nThe following year, Secretary-General of the United Nations Kofi Annan endorsed the High Level Panel's definition of terrorism and asked states to set aside their differences and to adopt that definition within the proposed comprehensive terrorism convention before the end of that year. He said:\nThe suggestion of incorporating this definition of terrorism into the comprehensive convention was rejected. Some United Nations' member states contended that a definition such as the one proposed by the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, and endorsed by the Secretary General, lacked the necessary requirements to be incorporated in a criminal law instrument. Carlos Diaz-Paniagua, who coordinated the negotiations of the proposed Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, stated that a comprehensive definition of terrorism to be included in a criminal law treaty must have \"legal precision, certainty, and fair-labeling of the criminal conduct - all of which emanate from the basic human rights obligation to observe due process.\"\n\nThe European Union defines terrorism for legal/official purposes in Art. 1 of the \"Framework Decision on Combating Terrorism\" (2002). This provides that terrorist offences are certain criminal offences set out in a list consisting largely of serious offences against persons and property that;\nNATO defines terrorism in the AAP-06 NATO Glossary of Terms and Definitions, Edition 2014 as \"The unlawful use or threatened use of force or violence against individuals or property in an attempt to coerce or intimidate governments or societies to achieve political, religious or ideological objectives\".\n\nThe Argentine National Reorganization Process dictatorship, which lasted from 1976 to 1983, defined \"terrorist\" as \"not only who set bombs and carry guns, but also those who spread ideas opposite to Christian and western civilization\".\n\nIn 1986, France adopted its first \"anti-terrorism\" law. The French legal definition of \"acts of terrorism\" as in force since 2016 is to be found in the French Code pénal, article 421. The article starts with: \nThe Supreme Court of India adopted Alex P. Schmid's definition of terrorism in a 2003 ruling (Madan Singh vs. State of Bihar), \"defin[ing] acts of terrorism veritably as 'peacetime equivalents of war crimes.'\"\nThe now lapsed Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act specified the following definition of terrorism:\n\nThe Pakistan Anti-Terrorism (Amendment) Ordinance, 1999 states:\n\nA person is said to commit a terrorist act if he,\n\n(a) in order to, or if the effect of his actions will be to, strike terror or create a sense of fear and insecurity in the people, or any section of the people, does any act or thing by using bombs, dynamite or other explosive or inflammable substances, or such fire-arms or other lethal weapons as may be notified, or poisons or noxious gases or chemicals, in such a manner as to cause, or be likely to cause, the death of, or injury to, any person or persons, or damage to, or destruction of, property on a large scale, or a widespread disruption of supplies of services essential to the life of the community, or threatens with the use of force public servants in order to prevent them from discharging their lawful duties; or\n\n(b) commits a scheduled offence, the effect of which will be, or be likely to be, to strike terror, or create a sense of fear and insecurity in the people, or any section of the people, or to adversely affect harmony among different sections of the people; or\n\n(c) commits an act of gang rape, child molestation, or robbery coupled with rape as specified in the Schedule to this Act; or\n\n(d) commits an act of civil commotion as specified in section &A.\"\nAfter the United States attack on Abu Kamal, the Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Muallem defined terrorism as \"Killing civilians in international law means a terrorist aggression.\"\n\nThe definition of \"Terrorism\" in Article 1 of Anti-Terror Law 3713 is: \"Terrorism is any kind of act done by one or more persons belonging to an organization with the aim of changing the characteristics of the Republic as specified in the Constitution, its political, legal, social, secular and economic system, damaging the indivisible unity of the State with its territory and nation, endangering the existence of the Turkish State and Republic, weakening or destroying or seizing the authority of the State, eliminating fundamental rights and freedoms, or damaging the internal and external security of the State, public order or general health by means of pressure, force and violence, terror, intimidation, oppression or threat.\"\n\nThe United Kingdom's Terrorism Act 2000 defined terrorism as follows:\nSection 34 of the Terrorism Act 2006 amended sections 1(1)(b) and 113(1)(c) of Terrorism Act 2000 to include \"international governmental organisations\" in addition to \"government\".\n\nSuccessive Independent Reviewers of Terrorism Legislation (most recently in a report of July 2014) have commented on the UK's definition of terrorism.\n\nTitle 22, Chapter 38 of the United States Code (regarding the Department of State) contains a definition of terrorism in its requirement that annual country reports on terrorism be submitted by the Secretary of State to Congress every year. It reads:\nTitle 18 of the United States Code (regarding criminal acts and criminal procedure) defines international terrorism as:\nCommenting on the genesis of this provision, Edward Peck, former U.S. Chief of Mission in Iraq (under Jimmy Carter) and former ambassador to Mauritania said:\nThe U.S. Code of Federal Regulations defines terrorism as \"the unlawful use of force and violence against persons or property to intimidate or coerce a government, the civilian population, or any segment thereof, in furtherance of political or social objectives\" (28 C.F.R. Section 0.85).\n\nThe U.S. Department of Defense recently changed its definition of terrorism. Per Joint Pub 3-07.2, \"Antiterrorism,\" (24 November 2010), the Department of Defense defines it as \"the unlawful use of violence or threat of violence to instill fear and coerce governments or societies. Terrorism is often motivated by religious, political, or other ideological beliefs and committed in the pursuit of goals that are usually political.\"\n\nThe new definition distinguishes between motivations for terrorism (religion, ideology, etc.) and goals of terrorism (\"usually political\"). This is in contrast to the previous definition which stated that the goals could be religious in nature.\n\nThe U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) contains a definition of terrorism, which reads:\n\nThe new definition does not require that the act needs to be politically motivated. The FEMA also said that terrorism \"include threats of terrorism; assassinations; kidnappings; hijackings; bomb scares and bombings; cyber attacks (computer-based); and the use of chemical, biological, nuclear and radiological weapons\" and also states that \"[h]igh-risk targets for acts of terrorism include military and civilian government facilities, international airports, large cities, and high-profile landmarks. Terrorists might also target large public gatherings, water and food supplies, utilities, and corporate centers. Further, terrorists are capable of spreading fear by sending explosives or chemical and biological agents through the mail.\"\n\nThe U.S. National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC) define terrorism the same as United States Code 22 USC § 2656f(d)(2). The Center also defines a terrorist act as a \"premeditated; perpetrated by a sub-national or clandestine agent; politically motivated, potentially including religious, philosophical, or culturally symbolic motivations; violent; and perpetrated against a non-combatant target.\"\n\nIn September 2002, the U.S. national security strategy defined terrorism as \"premeditated, politically motivated violence against innocents.\" This definition did not exclude actions by the United States government and it was qualified some months later with \"premeditated, politically motivated violence against noncombatant targets by subnational groups or clandestine agents\".\n\nThe USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 defines domestic terrorism as \"activities that (A) involve acts dangerous to human life that are a violation of the criminal laws of the U.S. or of any state; (B) appear to be intended (i) to intimidate or coerce a civilian population; (ii) to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or (iii) to affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction, assassination, or kidnapping; and (C) occur primarily within the territorial jurisdiction of the U.S.\"\n\nSection 102(1)(a) of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act contains a definition of terrorism in order for insurance companies to provide coverage to all prospective policy holders at time of purchase and to all current policyholders at renewal and requires that the federal government pay 90 percent of covered terrorism losses exceeding the statutorily established deductible paid by the insurance company providing the coverage. It reads:\nSome insurance companies exclude terrorism from general property insurance (e.g. home insurance). An insurance company may include a specific definition of terrorism as part of its policy, for the purpose of excluding at least some loss or damage caused by terrorism. For example, RAC Insurance in Australia defines terrorism thus:\nAs Bruce Hoffman has noted: \"terrorism is a pejorative term. It is a word with intrinsically negative connotations that is generally applied to one's enemies and opponents, or to those with whom one disagrees and would otherwise prefer to ignore. (...) Hence the decision to call someone or label some organization 'terrorist' becomes almost unavoidably subjective, depending largely on whether one sympathizes with or opposes the person/group/cause concerned. If one identifies with the victim of the violence, for example, then the act is terrorism. If, however, one identifies with the perpetrator, the violent act is regarded in a more sympathetic, if not positive (or, at the worst, an ambivalent) light; and it is not terrorism.\" For this and for political reasons, many news sources (such as Reuters) avoid using this term, opting instead for less accusatory words like \"bombers\", \"militants\", etc.\n\nThe term has been depicted as carrying racist, xenophobic and ethnocentric connotations when used as an ethnic slur aimed at Arabs or Middle Easterners, or at someone of Arab or Greater Middle Eastern descent or when used by white supremacists.\n\nListed below are some of the historically important understandings of terror and terrorism, and enacted but non-universal definitions of the term:\n\nTerrorism is an anxiety-inspiring method of repeated violent action, employed by (semi-) clandestine individual, group or state actors, for idiosyncratic, criminal or political reasons, whereby - in contrast to assassination - the direct targets of violence are not the main targets. The immediate human victims of violence are generally chosen randomly (targets of opportunity) or selectively (representative or symbolic targets) from a target population, and serve as message generators.\n. . . given their nature or context, [acts which] may seriously damage a country or an international organisation where committed with the aim of seriously intimidating a population.\nCriminal acts intended or calculated to provoke a state of terror in the general public, a group of persons or particular persons for political purposes are in any circumstance unjustifiable, whatever the considerations of a political, philosophical, ideological, racial, ethnic, religious or any other nature that may be invoked to justify them.\nAny act carried out by an offender in furtherance of an individual or collective project, directly or indirectly, intended to disturb the public order of the state, or to shake the security of society, or the stability of the state, or to expose its national unity to danger, or to suspend the basic law of governance or some of its articles, or to insult the reputation of the state or its position, or to inflict damage upon one of its public utilities or its natural resources, or to attempt to force a governmental authority to carry out or prevent it from carrying out an action, or to threaten to carry out acts that lead to the named purposes or incite [these acts].\n\nNumerous scholars have proposed working definitions of terrorism. Bruce Hoffman, a well-known scholar, has thus noted that:\nHoffman believes it is possible to identify some key characteristics of terrorism. He proposes that:\n\nA definition proposed by Carsten Bockstette at the George C. Marshall European Center for Security Studies, underlines the psychological and tactical aspects of terrorism:\n\nIn this sense, after surveying the various academic definitions of terrorism, Vallis concluded that:\nAcademics and practitioners may also be categorized by the definitions of terrorism that they use. Max Abrahms has introduced the distinction between what he calls \"terrorist lumpers\" and \"terrorist splitters.\" Lumpers define terrorism broadly, brooking no distinction between this tactic and guerrilla warfare or civil war. Terrorist splitters, by contrast, define terrorism narrowly, as the select use of violence against civilians for putative political gain. As Abrahms notes, these two definitions yield different policy implications:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3740760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3740760", "title": "Descriptivist theory of names", "text": "Descriptivist theory of names\n\nIn the philosophy of language, the descriptivist theory of proper names (also descriptivist theory of reference) is the view that the meaning or semantic content of a proper name is identical to the descriptions associated with it by speakers, while their referents are determined to be the objects that satisfy these descriptions. Bertrand Russell and Gottlob Frege have both been associated with the descriptivist theory, which is sometimes called the Frege–Russell view.\n\nIn the 1970s, this theory came under attack from causal theorists such as Saul Kripke, Hilary Putnam and others. However, it has seen something of a revival in recent years, especially under the form of what are called two-dimensional semantic theories. This latter trend is exemplified by the theories of David Chalmers, among others.\n\nA simple descriptivist theory of names can be thought of as follows: for every proper name \"p\", there is some collection of descriptions \"D\" associated with \"p\" that constitute the meaning of \"p\". For example, the descriptivist may hold that the proper name \"Saul Kripke\" is synonymous with the collection of descriptions such as \nThe descriptivist takes the meaning of the name \"Saul Kripke\" to be that collection of descriptions and takes the referent of the name to be the thing that satisfies all or most of those descriptions.\n\nA simple descriptivist theory may further hold that the meaning of a sentence \"S\" that contains \"p\" is given by the collection of sentences produced by replacing each instance of \"p\" in \"S\" with one of the descriptions in \"D\". So, the sentence such as \"Saul Kripke stands next to a table\" has the same meaning as the following collection of sentences:\n\nA version of descriptivism was formulated by Frege in reaction to problems with his original theory of meaning or reference (\"Bedeutung\"), which entailed that sentences with empty proper names cannot have a meaning. Yet a sentence containing the name 'Odysseus' is intelligible, and therefore has a sense, even though there is no individual object (its reference) to which the name corresponds. Also, the sense of different names is different, even when their reference is the same. Frege said that if an identity statement such as \"Hesperus is the same planet as Phosphorus\" is to be informative, the proper names flanking the identity sign must have a different meaning or sense. But clearly, if the statement is true, they must have the same reference. The sense is a 'mode of presentation', which serves to illuminate only a single aspect of the referent. Scholars disagree as to whether Frege intended such modes of presentation to be descriptions. See the article Sense and reference.\n\nRussell’s approach is somewhat different. First of all, Russell makes an important distinction between what he calls “ordinary” proper names and “logically” proper names. Logically proper names are indexicals such as \"this\" and \"that\", which directly refer (in a Millian sense) to sense-data or other objects of immediate acquaintance. For Russell, ordinary proper names are \"abbreviated definite descriptions.\" Here definite description refers again to the type of formulation “The…” which was used above to describe Santa Claus as “the benevolent, bearded….’’ According to Russell, the name “Aristotle” is just a sort of shorthand for a definite description such as “The last great philosopher of ancient Greece” or “The teacher of Alexander the great” or some conjunction of two or more such descriptions. Now, according to Russell’s theory of definite descriptions, such descriptions must, in turn, be reduced, to a certain very specific logical form of existential generalization as follows:\n\nbecomes\n\nThis says that there is exactly one object ‘’x’’ such that ‘’x’’ is King of France and ‘’x’’ is bald. Notice that this formulation is entirely general: it says that there is some x out in the world that satisfies the description, but does not specify which one thing ‘’x’’ refers to. Indeed, for Russell, definite descriptions (and hence names) have no reference at all and their meanings (senses in the Fregean sense) are just the truth conditions of the logical forms illustrated above. This is made clearer by Russell’s example involving ‘’Bismarck’’:\n\n\nIn this case, Russell suggests that only Bismarck himself can be in a relation of acquaintance such that the man himself enters into the proposition expressed by the sentence. For any other than Bismarck, the only relation that is possible with such a proposition is through its descriptions. Bismarck could never have existed and the sentence (G) would still be meaningful because of its general nature described by the logical form underlying the sentence.\n\nNotwithstanding these differences however, descriptivism and the descriptive theory of proper names came to be associated with both the views of Frege and Russell and both address the general problems (names without bearers, Frege’s puzzles concerning identity and substitution in contexts of intentional attitude attributions) in a similar manner.\n\nAnother problem for Millianism is Frege’s famous puzzles concerning the identity of co-referring terms. For example:\n\n\nIn this case, both terms (“Hesperus” and “Phosphorus”) refer to the same entity: Venus. The Millian theory would predict that this sentence is trivial, since meaning is just reference and “Venus is Venus” is not very informative. Suppose, however, that someone did not know that Hesperus and Phosphorus both referred to Venus. Then it is at least arguable that the sentence (V) is an attempt to inform someone of just this fact.\n\nAnother problem for Millianism is that of statements such as “Fred believes that Cicero, but not Tully, was Roman.”\n\nIn his book \"Naming and Necessity\", Saul Kripke criticised the descriptivist theory. At the end of Lecture I (pp. 64–70) Kripke sets out what he believes to be the tenets of the descriptivist theory. Kripke formally states a number of theses as the core of the descriptivist theory, with these theses explaining the theory in terms of reference (rather than the sense or meaning). As he explains before stating the theory, \"There are more theses if you take it in the stronger version as a theory of meaning\" (p. 64).\n\nAs he states it, the descriptivist theory is \"weaker,\" i.e., the claims it makes do not assert as much as a stronger theory would. This actually makes it harder to refute. The descriptivist theory of meaning would include these theses and definitions however, thus refuting these would suffice for refuting the descriptivist theory of meaning as well. Kripke formulates them as follows:\n\n\n(1) States the properties or concepts related to any given proper name, where a name 'X' has a set of properties associated with it. The set of properties are those that a speaker, on inquiry of \"Who is Barack Obama?\" would respond \"The President of the U.S., former Senator of Illinois, husband of Michelle Obama, etc.\" (1) does not stipulate that the set of properties φ is the meaning of X. (2) stipulates the epistemic position of the speaker. Note (2) says \"believed by A to pick out\".\n\n(3) Takes the properties in (1) and (2) and turns them into a mechanism of reference. Basically, if a unique object satisfies the properties associated with 'X' such that A believes that 'X has such-and-such properties', it picks out or refers to that object. (4) states what happens when no object satisfies the properties (Kripke talks in terms of taking a \"vote\" as to the unique referent).\n\n(5) Follows from (1)-(3). If there is a set of properties that speaker A believes to be associated with X, then these properties must be already known by the speaker. In this sense they are a priori. To know what a bachelor is, an individual must know what an unmarried male is; likewise an individual must know who is 'The President of the U.S., former Senator of Illinois, husband of Michelle Obama, etc.' to know who Obama is.\n(6) However is not a direct product of the theses. Kripke notes \"(6) need not be a thesis of the theory if someone doesn't think that the cluster is part of the meaning of the name\" (p. 65). However, when the descriptivist theory is taken as a theory of reference and meaning, (6) would be a thesis.\n\nTaken as a theory of reference, the following would be true:\n\nThe idea in the second sentence is that one can't refer to something without knowing what he or she is referring to. \nTaken as a theory of reference and meaning, the following would be true:\n\n\nAfter breaking down the descriptivist theory, he begins to point out what's wrong with it. First, he offered up what has come to be known as “the modal argument” (or argument from rigidity) against descriptivism. Consider the name ‘’Aristotle’’ and the descriptions “the greatest student of Plato’’, “the founder of logic” and “the teacher of Alexander.” Aristotle obviously satisfies all of the descriptions (and many of the others we commonly associate with him), but it is not a necessary truth that if Aristotle existed then Aristotle was any one, or all, of these descriptions, contrary to thesis (6). Aristotle might well have existed without doing any single one of the things he is known for. He might have existed and not have become known to posterity at all or he might have died in infancy.\n\nSuppose that Aristotle is associated by Mary with the description\n“the last great philosopher of antiquity” and (the actual) Aristotle died in infancy. Then Mary’s description would seem to refer to Plato. But this is deeply counterintuitive. Hence, names are ‘’rigid designators’’, according to Kripke. That is, they refer to the same individual in every possible world in which that individual exists.\n\nThis is the counterintuitive result of thesis (6). For descriptivists Aristotle means “the greatest student of Plato’’, “the founder of logic” and “the teacher of Alexander.” So the sentence “the greatest student of Plato, etc., was the greatest student of Plato,” is equivalent to “Aristotle was the greatest student of Plato, etc.” Of course a sentence like “x=x” is necessary, but this just isn't the case with proper names and their descriptions. Aristotle could have done something else, thus he is not necessarily identical to his description.\n\nThe second argument employed by Kripke has come to be called the ‘’epistemic argument” or “the argument from unwanted necessity.” This is simply the observation that if the meaning of ‘’Angela Merkel’’ is “the Chancellor of Germany”, then “Angela is the Chancellor of Germany” should seem to the average person to be a priori, analytic, and trivial, as if falling out of the meaning of “Angela Merkel” just as “unmarried male” falls out of the meaning of “bachelor.” If thesis (5) is to hold, the properties of Angela Merkel should be known a priori by the speaker. But this is not true. We had to go out into the world to see who the Chancellor of Germany is.\n\nKripke’s third argument against descriptive theories consisted in pointing out that people may associate inadequate or inaccurate descriptions with proper names. Kripke uses Kurt Gödel as an example. The only thing most people know about Gödel is that he proved the incompleteness of arithmetic. Suppose he hadn't proved it, and really he stole it from his friend Schmidt. Thesis (3) says that if most of the properties associated with 'Gödel' are satisfied by one unique object, in this case Schmidt, then Schmidt is the referent of 'Gödel.' This means that every time someone (in the world where Gödel stole the incompleteness theorem from Schmidt) says 'Gödel' he or she is actually referring to Schmidt. This is far too counter-intuitive for the descriptivist theory to hold.\n\nSuch arguments seem to have convinced the majority of philosophers of language to abandon descriptive theories of proper names.\n\nIn recent years, there has been something of a revival in descriptivist theories, including descriptivist theories of proper names. Metalinguistic description theories have been developed and adopted by such contemporary theorists as Kent Bach and Jerrold Katz. According to Katz, “metalinguistic description theories explicate the sense of proper nouns - but not common nouns - in terms of a relation between the noun and the objects that bear its name.” Differently from the traditional theory, such theories do not posit a need for sense to determine reference and the metalinguistic description mentions the name it is the sense of (hence it is \"metalinguistic\") while placing no conditions on being the bearer of a name. Katz's theory, to take this example, is based on the fundamental idea that sense should not have to be defined in terms of, nor determine, referential or extensional properties but that it should be defined in terms of, and determined by, all and only the intensional properties of names.\n\nHe illustrates the way a metalinguistic description theory can be successful against Kripkean counterexamples by citing, as one example, the case of ‘’Jonah’’. Kripke’s Jonah case is very powerful because in this case the only information that we have about the Biblical character Jonah is just what the Bible tells us. Unless we are fundamentalist literalists, it is not controversial that all of this is false. Since, under traditional descriptivism, these descriptions are what define the name Jonah; these descriptivists must say that Jonah did not exist. But this does not follow. But under Katz's version of descriptivism, the sense of Jonah contains no information derived from the Biblical accounts but contains only the term \"Jonah\" itself in the phrase \"the thing that is a bearer of 'Jonah'.\" Hence, it is not vulnerable to these kinds of counterexamples.\n\nThe most common and challenging criticism to metalinguistic description theories was put forth by Kripke himself: they seem to be an ad hoc explanation of a single linguistic phenomenon. Why should there be a metalinguistic theory for proper nouns (like names) but not for common nouns, count nouns, verbs, predicates, indexicals and other parts of speech.\n\nAnother recent approach is \"two-dimensional semantics.\" The motivations for this approach are rather different from those that inspired other forms of descriptivism, however. Two–dimensional approaches are usually motivated by a sense of dissatisfaction with the causal theorist explanation of how it is that a single proposition can be both necessary and \"a posteriori\" or contingent and \"a priori\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2780135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2780135", "title": "Desert island", "text": "Desert island\n\nA deserted island or uninhabited island is an island that is not permanently populated by humans. Uninhabited islands are often used in movies or stories about shipwrecked people, and are also used as stereotypes for the idea of \"paradise\". Some uninhabited islands are protected as nature reserves and some are privately owned. Devon Island in Canada is claimed to be the largest uninhabited island in the world.\n\nSmall coral atolls or islands usually have no source of fresh water, but at times a fresh water lens (Ghyben–Herzberg lens) can be reached with a well.\n\nUninhabited islands are sometimes also called \"deserted islands\" or \"desert islands\". In the latter, the adjective \"desert\" connotes not desert climate conditions, but rather \"desolate and sparsely occupied or unoccupied\". The word \"desert\" has been \"formerly applied more widely to any wild, uninhabited region, including forest-land\", and it is this archaic meaning that appears in the phrase \"desert island\". Similarly, the term \"deserted island\" does not imply that the island was previously inhabited and later deserted.\n\nThe term \"desert island\" is also commonly used figuratively to refer to objects or behavior in conditions of social isolation and limited material means. Behavior on a desert island is a common thought experiment, for example, \"desert island morality\".\n\n\nThe first known novels to be set on a desert island were \"Philosophus Autodidactus\" written by Ibn Tufail (1105–1185), followed by \"Theologus Autodidactus\" written by Ibn al-Nafis (1213–1288). The protagonists in both (Hayy in \"Philosophus Autodidactus\" and Kamil in \"Theologus Autodidactus\") are feral children living in seclusion on a deserted island, until they eventually come in contact with castaways from the outside world who are stranded on the island. The story of \"Theologus Autodidactus\", however, extends beyond the deserted island setting when the castaways take Kamil back to civilization with them.\n\nWilliam Shakespeare's 1610–11 play, \"The Tempest\", uses the idea of being stranded on a desert island as a pretext for the action of the play. Prospero and his daughter Miranda are set adrift by Prospero's treacherous brother Antonio, seeking to become Duke of Milan, and Prospero in turn shipwrecks his brother and other men of sin onto the island.\n\nA Latin translation of Ibn Tufail's \"Philosophus Autodidactus\" appeared in 1671, prepared by Edward Pococke the Younger, followed by an English translation by Simon Ockley in 1708, as well as German and Dutch translations. In the late 17th century, \"Philosophus Autodidactus\" inspired Robert Boyle, an acquaintance of Pococke, to write his own philosophical novel set on a deserted island, \"The Aspiring Naturalist\". Ibn al-Nafis' \"Theologus Autodidactus\" was also eventually translated into English in the early 20th century.\n\nPublished in 1719, Daniel Defoe's novel \"Robinson Crusoe\" about a castaway on a desert island has spawned so many imitations in film, television and radio that its name was used to define a genre, Robinsonade. The novel features Man Friday, Crusoe's personal assistant. It is likely that Defoe took inspiration for Crusoe from a Scottish sailor named Alexander Selkirk, who was rescued in 1709 after four years on the otherwise uninhabited Juan Fernández Islands; Defoe usually made use of current events for his plots. It is also likely that he was inspired by the Latin or English translations of Ibn Tufail's \"Philosophus Autodidactus\".\n\nTom Neale was a New Zealander who voluntarily spent 16 years in three sessions in the 1950s and 1960s living alone on the island of Suwarrow in the northern Cook Islands group. His time there is documented in his autobiography, \"An Island To Oneself\". Significant novels set on deserted islands include \"The Swiss Family Robinson\", \"The Coral Island\", \"The Mysterious Island\", \"Lord of the Flies\", \"The Cay\" and \"The Beach\". Juana Maria, a Native American woman, was stranded for 18 years on San Nicolas Island off California in the 19th century.\n\nThe theme of being stranded on a desert island has inspired films, such as \"Cast Away\", and TV series, like \"Lost\" and the comedy \"Gilligan's Island\". It is also the driving force behind reality shows like \"Survivor\" and the Discovery Kids show \"Flight 29 Down\".\n\nIn the popular conception, such islands are often located in the Pacific, tropical, uninhabited and usually uncharted. They are remote locales that offer escape and force people marooned or stranded as castaways to become self-sufficient and essentially create a new society. This society can either be utopian, based on an ingenious re-creation of society's comforts (as in \"Swiss Family Robinson\" and, in a humorous form, \"Gilligan's Island\") or a regression into savagery (the major theme of both \"Lord of the Flies\" and \"The Beach\"). In reality, small coral atolls or islands usually have no source of fresh water (thus precluding any long-term human survival), but at times a fresh water lens (Ghyben–Herzberg lens) can be reached with a well.\n\nDuring the apocalyptic war depicted in H.G. Wells's \"The War in the Air\", Goat Island in the middle of the Niagara Falls becomes abruptly a desert island when all bridges linking it to the mainland are destroyed - marooning a few survivors who embark on a bitter struggle for survival.\n\nThe BBC Radio 4 program \"Desert Island Discs\" asks well-known people what items they would take with them to a deserted island. The program has inspired many similar articles, contests, and projects, including \"desert island books,\" \"desert island movies,\" and so on.\n\nSome songs mention about desert islands, including one sung by Noel Paul Stookey from Peter, Paul and Mary.\n\nDesert islands are also a hugely popular image for gag cartoons, the island being conventionally depicted as just a few yards across with a single palm tree (probably due to the visual constraints of the medium). 17 such cartoons appeared in \"The New Yorker\" in 1957 alone.\n\nA message in a bottle is a form of communication often associated with people stranded on a deserted island attempting to be rescued.\n\nThe top \"dream vacation\" for heterosexual men surveyed by \"Psychology Today\" \"marooned on a tropical island with several members of the opposite sex.\"\n\nAnother story has to do with a Dutch seaman who was left alone on the island of Saint Helena as punishment. He fell into such despair that he disinterred the body of a buried comrade and set out to sea in the coffin. Another castaway, the Spaniard Pedro Serrano, was rescued after seven and a half years of solitude.\n\nIn 1820, the crew of the whaler \"Essex\" spent time on uninhabited Henderson Island. There they gorged on birds, fish, and vegetation and found a small freshwater spring. After one week, they had depleted the island's resources and most of the crew left on three whaleboats, while three of the men decided to remain on the island and survived there for four months until their rescue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "937347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=937347", "title": "Double bind", "text": "Double bind\n\nA double bind is an emotionally distressing dilemma in communication in which an individual (or group) receives two or more conflicting messages, with one negating the other. This creates a situation in which a successful response to one message results in a failed response to the other (and vice versa), so that the person will automatically be wrong regardless of response. The double bind occurs when the person cannot confront the inherent dilemma, and therefore can neither resolve it nor opt out of the situation.\n\nDouble bind theory was first described by Gregory Bateson and his colleagues in the 1950s.\n\nDouble binds are often utilized as a form of control without open coercion—the use of confusion makes them both difficult to respond to as well as to resist.: 271-278.\n\nA double bind generally includes different levels of abstraction in the order of messages and these messages can either be stated explicitly or implicitly within the context of the situation, or they can be conveyed by tone of voice or body language. Further complications arise when frequent double binds are part of an ongoing relationship to which the person or group is committed.\n\nThe double bind is often misunderstood to be a simple contradictory situation, where the subject is trapped by two conflicting demands. While it's true that the core of the double bind is two conflicting demands, the difference lies in how they are imposed upon the subject, what the subject's understanding of the situation is, and who (or what) imposes these demands upon the subject. Unlike the usual no-win situation, the subject has difficulty in defining the exact nature of the paradoxical situation in which he or she is caught. The contradiction may be unexpressed in its immediate context and therefore invisible to external observers, only becoming evident when a prior communication is considered. Typically, a demand is imposed upon the subject by someone whom he or she respects (such as a parent, teacher, or doctor) but the demand itself is inherently impossible to fulfill because some broader context forbids it. For example, this situation arises when a person in a position of authority imposes two contradictory conditions but there exists an unspoken rule that one must never question authority.\n\nGregory Bateson and his colleagues defined the double bind as follows (paraphrased):\nThus, the essence of a double bind is two conflicting demands, \"each on a different logical level\", neither of which can be ignored or escaped. This leaves the subject torn both ways, so that whichever demand they try to meet, the other demand cannot be met. \"I must do it, but I can't do it\" is a typical description of the double-bind experience.\n\nFor a double bind to be effective, the subject must be unable to confront or resolve the conflict between the demand placed by the primary injunction and that of the secondary injunction. In this sense, the double bind differentiates itself from a simple contradiction to a more inexpressible internal conflict, where the subject really \"wants\" to meet the demands of the primary injunction, but fails each time through an inability to address the situation's incompatibility with the demands of the secondary injunction. Thus, subjects may express feelings of extreme anxiety in such a situation, as they attempt to fulfil the demands of the primary injunction albeit with obvious contradictions in their actions.\n\nThis was a problem in United States legal circles prior to the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution being applied to state action. A person could be subpoenaed to testify in a federal case and given Fifth Amendment immunity for testimony in that case. However, since the immunity did not apply to a state prosecution, the person could refuse to testify at the Federal level despite being given immunity, thus subjecting the person to imprisonment for contempt of court, or the person could testify, and the information he or she was forced to give in the Federal proceeding could then be used to convict the person in a state proceeding.\n\nThe term \"double bind\" was first used by the anthropologist Gregory Bateson and his colleagues (including Don D. Jackson, Jay Haley and John H. Weakland) in the mid-1950s in their discussions on complexity of communication in relation to schizophrenia. Bateson made clear that such complexities are common in normal circumstances, especially in \"play, humour, poetry, ritual and fiction\" (see Logical Types below). Their findings indicated that the tangles in communication often diagnosed as schizophrenia are not necessarily the result of an organic brain dysfunction. Instead, they found that destructive double binds were a frequent pattern of communication among families of patients, and they proposed that growing up amidst perpetual double binds could lead to learned patterns of confusion in thinking and communication.\n\nHuman communication is complex, and context is an essential part of it. Communication consists of the words said, tone of voice, and body language. It also includes how these relate to what has been said in the past; what is not said, but is implied; how these are modified by other nonverbal cues, such as the environment in which it is said, and so forth. For example, if someone says \"I love you\", one takes into account who is saying it, their tone of voice and body language, and the context in which it is said. It may be a declaration of passion or a serene reaffirmation, insincere and/or manipulative, an implied demand for a response, a joke, its public or private context may affect its meaning, and so forth.\n\nConflicts in communication are common and often we ask \"What do you mean?\" or seek clarification in other ways. This is called \"meta-communication:\" communication about the communication. Sometimes, asking for clarification is impossible. Communication difficulties in ordinary life often occur when meta-communication and feedback systems are lacking or inadequate or there isn't enough time for clarification.\nDouble binds can be extremely stressful and become destructive when one is trapped in a dilemma and punished for finding a way out. But making the effort to find the way out of the trap can lead to emotional growth.\n\nThe classic example given of a negative double bind is of a mother telling her child that she loves him or her, while at the same time turning away in disgust, or inflicting corporal punishment as discipline: the words are socially acceptable; the body language is in conflict with it. The child does not know how to respond to the conflict between the words and the body language and, because the child is dependent on the mother for basic needs, they are in a quandary. Small children have difficulty articulating contradictions verbally and can neither ignore them nor leave the relationship.\n\nAnother example is when one is commanded to \"be spontaneous\". The very command contradicts spontaneity, but it only becomes a double bind when one can neither ignore the command nor comment on the contradiction. \nOften, the contradiction in communication is not apparent to bystanders unfamiliar with previous communications.\n\n\n\nBateson also described positive double binds, both in relation to Zen Buddhism with its path of spiritual growth, and the use of therapeutic double binds by psychiatrists to confront their patients with the contradictions in their life in such a way that would help them heal. One of Bateson's consultants, Milton H. Erickson (5 volumes, edited by Rossi) eloquently demonstrated the productive possibilities of double binds through his own life, showing the technique in a brighter light.\n\nOne of the causes of double binds is the loss of feedback systems. Gregory Bateson and Lawrence S. Bale describe double binds that have arisen in science that have caused decades-long delays of progress in science because the scientific community had defined something as outside of its scope (or as \"not science\")—see Bateson in his \"Introduction\" to Steps to an Ecology of Mind (1972, 2000), pp. xv–xxvi; and Bale in his article, \"Gregory Bateson, Cybernetics and the Social/Behavioral Sciences\" (esp. pp. 1–8) on the paradigm of classical science vs. that of systems theory/cybernetics. (See also Bateson's description in his \"Forward\" of how the double bind hypothesis fell into place).\n\nThe Double Bind Theory was first articulated in relationship to schizophrenia, but Bateson and his colleagues hypothesized that schizophrenic thinking was not necessarily an inborn mental disorder but a learned confusion in thinking.\nIt is helpful to remember the context in which these ideas were developed. Bateson and his colleagues were working in the Veteran's Administration Hospital (1949–1962) with World War II veterans. As soldiers they'd been able to function well in combat, but the effects of life-threatening stress had affected them. At that time, 18 years before Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder was officially recognized, the veterans had been saddled with the catch-all diagnosis of schizophrenia. Bateson didn't challenge the diagnosis but he did maintain that the seeming nonsense the patients said at times did make sense within context, and he gives numerous examples in section III of \"Steps to an Ecology of Mind\", \"Pathology in Relationship\". For example, a patient misses an appointment, and when Bateson finds him later the patient says 'the judge disapproves'; Bateson responds, \"You need a defense lawyer\" see following (pp. 195–6) Bateson also surmised that people habitually caught in double binds in childhood would have greater problems—that in the case of the schizophrenic, the double bind is presented continually and habitually within the family context from infancy on. By the time the child is old enough to have identified the double bind situation, it has already been internalized, and the child is unable to confront it. The solution then is to create an escape from the conflicting logical demands of the double bind, in the world of the delusional system (see in \"Towards a Theory of Schizophrenia – Illustrations from Clinical Data\").\n\nOne solution to a double bind is to place the problem in a larger context, a state Bateson identified as Learning III, a step up from Learning II (which requires only learned responses to reward/consequence situations). In Learning III, the double bind is contextualized and understood as an impossible no-win scenario so that ways around it can be found.\n\nBateson's double bind theory was never followed up by research into whether family systems imposing systematic double binds might be a cause of schizophrenia. This complex theory has been only partly tested, and there are gaps in the current psychological and experimental evidence required to establish causation [citation?]. The current understanding of schizophrenia emphasizes the robust scientific evidence for a genetic predisposition to the disorder, with psychosocial stressors, including dysfunctional family interaction patterns, as secondary causative factors in some instances.\n\nAfter many years of research into schizophrenia, Bateson continued to explore problems of communication and learning, first with dolphins, and then with the more abstract processes of evolution. Bateson emphasised that any communicative system characterized by different logical levels might be subject to double bind problems. Especially including the communication of characteristics from one generation to another (genetics and evolution).\n\n\"...evolution always followed the pathways of viability. As Lewis Carroll has pointed out, the theory [of natural selection] explains quite satisfactorily why there are no bread-and-butter-flies today.\"\n\nBateson used the fictional Bread and Butter Fly (from \"Through the Looking Glass, and What Alice Found There\") to illustrate the double bind in terms of natural selection. The gnat points out that the insect would be doomed if he found his food (which would dissolve his own head), and starve if he did not. Alice suggests that this must happen quite often, to which the gnat replies \"it always happens\".\n\nThe pressures that drive evolution therefore represent a genuine double bind. And there is truly no escape: \"It always happens.\" No species can escape natural selection, including our own.\n\nBateson suggested that all evolution is driven by the double bind, whenever circumstances change: If any environment becomes toxic to any species, that species will die out unless it transforms into another species, in which case, the species becomes extinct anyway.\n\nMost significant here is Bateson's exploration of what he later came to call 'the pattern that connects'—that problems of communication which span more than one level (e.g., the relationship between the individual and the family) should also be expected to be found spanning other pairs of levels in the hierarchy (e.g. the relationship between the genotype and the phenotype):\n\n\"We are very far, then, from being able to pose specific questions for the geneticist; but I believe that the wider implications of what I have been saying modify somewhat the philosophy of genetics. Our approach to the problems of schizophrenia by way of a theory of levels or logical types has disclosed first that the problems of adaptation and learning and their pathologies must be considered in terms of a hierarchic system in which stochastic change occurs at the boundary points between the segments of the hierarchy. We have considered three such regions of stochastic change—the level of genetic mutation, the level of learning, and the level of change in family organization. We have disclosed the possibility of a relationship of these levels which orthodox genetics would deny, and we have disclosed that at least in human societies the evolutionary system consists not merely in the selective survival of those persons who happen to select appropriate environments but also in the modification of family environment in a direction which might enhance the phenotypic and genotypic characteristics of the individual members.\"\nRené Girard, in his literary theory of mimetic desire, proposes what he calls a \"model-obstacle\", a role model who demonstrates an object of desire and yet, in possessing that object, becomes a rival who obstructs fulfillment of the desire. According to Girard, the \"internal mediation\" of this mimetic dynamic \"operates along the same lines as what Gregory Bateson called the ‘double bind’.\" Girard found in Sigmund Freud's psychoanalytic theory, a precursor to mimetic desire. \"The individual who 'adjusts' has managed to relegate the two contradictory injunctions of the double bind—to imitate and not to imitate—to two different domains of application. This is, he divides reality in such a way as to neutralize the \"double bind\".\" While critical of Freud's doctrine of the unconscious mind, Girard sees the ancient Greek tragedy, \"Oedipus Rex\", and key elements of Freud's Oedipus complex, patricidal and incestuous desire, to serve as prototypes for his own analysis of the mimetic double bind.\n\nThe field of neuro-linguistic programming also makes use of the expression \"double bind\". Grinder and Bandler (both of whom had personal contact with Bateson and Erickson) asserted that a message could be constructed with multiple messages, whereby the recipient of the message is given the impression of choice—although both options have the same outcome at a higher level of intention. This is called a \"double bind\" in NLP terminology, and has applications in both sales and therapy. In therapy, the practitioner may seek to challenge destructive double binds that limit the client in some way and may also construct double binds in which both options have therapeutic consequences. In a sales context, the speaker may give the respondent the illusion of choice between two possibilities. For example, a salesperson might ask: \"Would you like to pay cash or by credit card?\", with both outcomes presupposing that the person will make the purchase; whereas the third option (that of not buying) is intentionally excluded from the spoken choices.\n\nNote that in the NLP context, the use of the phrase \"double bind\" does not carry the primary definition of two conflicting messages; it is about creating a false sense of choice which ultimately binds to the intended outcome. In the \"cash or credit card?\" example, this is not a \"Bateson double bind\" since there is no contradiction, although it still is an \"NLP double bind\". Similarly if a salesman were selling a book about the evils of commerce, it could perhaps be a \"Bateson double bind\" if the buyer happened to believe that commerce was evil, yet felt compelled or obliged to buy the book.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34990211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34990211", "title": "Extrinsic incentives bias", "text": "Extrinsic incentives bias\n\nThe extrinsic incentives bias is an attributional bias according to which people attribute relatively more to \"extrinsic incentives\" (such as monetary reward) than to \"intrinsic incentives\" (such as learning a new skill) when weighing the motives of others rather than themselves.\n\nIt is a counter-example to the fundamental attribution error as according to the extrinsic bias others are presumed to have \"situational\" motivations while oneself is seen as having \"dispositional\" motivations. This is the opposite of what the fundamental attribution error would predict. The term was first proposed by Chip Heath, citing earlier research by others in management science.\n\nIn the simplest experiment Heath reported, MBA students were asked to rank the expected job motivations of Citibank customer service representatives. Their average ratings were as follows:\n\n\nActual customer service representatives rank ordered their own motivations as follows:\n\n\nThe order of the predicted and actual reported motivations was nearly reversed; in particular, pay was rated first by others but near last for respondents of themselves. Similar effects were observed when MBA students rated managers and their classmates.\n\nHeath suggests trying to infer others' motivations as one would by inferring one's own motivations.\n"}
{"id": "2796239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2796239", "title": "Full depth recycling", "text": "Full depth recycling\n\nFull depth recycling or full depth reclamation (FDR), is a process that rebuilds worn out asphalt pavements by recycling the existing roadway.\n\nOld asphalt and base materials are pulverized using a specialized machine called a reclaimer. On top of the pulverized material, water is added to reach the optimal moisture content for compaction and then a variety of materials, such as dry cement, lime, fly ash, or asphalt emulsion are incorporated for stabilization. A reclaimer is used again to mix all the materials. After shaping and grading, the new base is compacted to produce a strong, durable base for either an asphalt or concrete surface.\n\nSince this method recycles the materials \"in situ\", there is no need to haul in aggregate or haul out old material for disposal. The vehicle movements are reduced and there is no need for detours since it can be done under traffic, making this process more convenient for local residents.\n\nFDR with cement saves money while preserving natural resources by using existing materials and conserving virgin aggregates. The road performance is improved through better stabilization, building a stronger, low-maintenance road that will last for many years.\n\nWith proper engineering and testing protocols the FDR process provides a design life-cycle of 30-years. FDR is a manufacturing process and not an installation. Other pavement materials, such as concrete, asphalt, or aggregate base go through a rigorous quality control program that meets a qualified standard prior to site delivery and contractor installation. The FDR process requires the same level of understanding and product controls during lab testing and field verification to meet long-term performance goals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1101364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1101364", "title": "Gaussian units", "text": "Gaussian units\n\nGaussian units constitute a metric system of physical units. This system is the most common of the several electromagnetic unit systems based on cgs (centimetre–gram–second) units. It is also called the Gaussian unit system, Gaussian-cgs units, or often just cgs units. The term \"cgs units\" is ambiguous and therefore to be avoided if possible: cgs contains within it several conflicting sets of electromagnetism units, not just Gaussian units, as described below.\n\nThe most common alternative to Gaussian units are SI units. SI units are predominant in most fields, and continue to increase in popularity at the expense of Gaussian units. (Other alternative unit systems also exist, as discussed below.) Conversions between Gaussian units and SI units are not as simple as normal unit conversions. For example, the \"formulas\" for physical laws of electromagnetism (such as Maxwell's equations) need to be adjusted depending on what system of units one uses. As another example, quantities that are dimensionless (loosely \"unitless\") in one system may have dimension in another.\n\nGaussian units existed before the CGS system. The British Association report of 1873 that proposed the CGS contains gaussian units derived from the foot–grain–second and metre–gram–second as well. There are also references to foot–pound–second gaussian units.\n\nThe main alternative to the Gaussian unit system is SI units, historically also called the MKSA system of units for metre–kilogram–second–ampere.\n\nThe Gaussian unit system is just one of several electromagnetic unit systems within CGS. Others include \"electrostatic units\", \"electromagnetic units\", and Lorentz–Heaviside units.\n\nSome other unit systems are called \"natural units\", a category that includes atomic units, Planck units, and others.\n\nSI units are by far the most common today. In engineering and practical areas, SI is nearly universal and has been for decades. In technical, scientific literature (such as theoretical physics and astronomy), Gaussian units were predominant until recent decades, but are now getting progressively less so. The CGS-Gaussian unit system is recognized as having advantages in classical and relativistic electrodynamics.\n\nNatural units are most common in more theoretical and abstract fields of physics, particularly particle physics and string theory.\n\nOne difference between Gaussian and SI units is in the factors of 4π in various formulas. SI electromagnetic units are called \"rationalized\", because Maxwell's equations have no explicit factors of 4\"π\" in the formulae. On the other hand, the inverse-square force laws – Coulomb's law and the Biot–Savart law – \"do\" have a factor of 4\"π\" attached to the \"r\". In \"unrationalized\" Gaussian units (not Lorentz–Heaviside units) the situation is reversed: Two of Maxwell's equations have factors of 4\"π\" in the formulas, while both of the inverse-square force laws, Coulomb's law and the Biot–Savart law, have no factor of 4\"π\" attached to \"r\" in the denominator.\n\nA major difference between Gaussian and SI units is in the definition of the unit of charge. In SI, a separate base unit (the ampere) is associated with electromagnetic phenomena, with the consequence that something like electrical charge (1 coulomb = 1 ampere × 1 second) is a unique dimension of physical quantity and is not expressed purely in terms of the mechanical units (kilogram, metre, second). On the other hand, in Gaussian units, the unit of electrical charge (the statcoulomb, statC) \"can\" be written entirely as a dimensional combination of the mechanical units (gram, centimetre, second), as:\n\nFor example, Coulomb's law in Gaussian units is simple:\n\nwhere \"F\" is the repulsive force between two electrical charges, \"Q\" and \"Q\" are the two charges in question, and \"r\" is the distance separating them. If \"Q\" and \"Q\" are expressed in statC and \"r\" in cm, then \"F\" will come out expressed in dyne.\n\nBy contrast, the same law in SI units is:\n\nwhere \"ε\" is the vacuum permittivity, a quantity with \"dimension\", namely (charge) (time) (mass) (length), and \"k\" is Coulomb's constant. Without \"ε\", the two sides could not have consistent dimensions in SI, and in fact the quantity \"ε\" does not even exist in Gaussian units. This is an example of how some dimensional physical constants can be eliminated from the expressions of physical law simply by the judicious choice of units. In SI, 1/\"ε\", converts or scales flux density, D, to electric field, E (the latter has dimension of force per charge), while in \"rationalized\" Gaussian units, flux density \"is\" the very same as electric field in free space, not just a scaled copy.\n\nSince the unit of charge is built out of mechanical units (mass, length, time), the relation between mechanical units and electromagnetic phenomena is clearer in Gaussian units than in SI. In particular, in Gaussian units, the speed of light \"c\" shows up directly in electromagnetic formulas like Maxwell's equations (see below), whereas in SI it only shows up implicitly via the relation formula_3.\n\nIn Gaussian units, unlike SI units, the electric field E and the magnetic field B have the same dimension. This amounts to a factor of \"c\" difference between how B is defined in the two unit systems, on top of the other differences. (The same factor applies to other magnetic quantities such as H and M.) For example, in a planar light wave in vacuum, in Gaussian units, while in SI units.\n\nThere are further differences between Gaussian and SI units in how quantities related to polarization and magnetization are defined. For one thing, in Gaussian units, \"all\" of the following quantities have the same dimension: E, D, P, B, H, and M. Another important point is that the electric and magnetic susceptibility of a material is dimensionless in both Gaussian and SI units, but a given material will have a different numerical susceptibility in the two systems. (Equation is given below.)\n\nThis section has a list of the basic formulae of electromagnetism, given in both Gaussian and SI units. Most symbol names are not given; for complete explanations and definitions, please click to the appropriate dedicated article for each equation. A simple conversion scheme for use when tables are not available may be found in\nRef.\nAll formulas except otherwise noted are from Ref.\n\nHere are Maxwell's equations, both in macroscopic and microscopic forms. Only the \"differential form\" of the equations is given, not the \"integral form\"; to get the integral forms apply the divergence theorem or Kelvin–Stokes theorem.\n\nBelow are the expressions for the various fields in a dielectric medium. It is assumed here for simplicity that the medium is homogeneous, linear, isotropic, and nondispersive, so that the permittivity is a simple constant.\n\nwhere\n\nThe quantities formula_4 in Gaussian units and formula_8 in SI are both dimensionless, and they have the same numeric value. By contrast, the electric susceptibility formula_9 is unitless in both systems, but has \"different numeric values\" in the two systems for the same material:\n\nNext, here are the expressions for the various fields in a magnetic medium. Again, it is assumed that the medium is homogeneous, linear, isotropic, and nondispersive, so that the permeability is a simple constant.\nwhere\n\nThe quantities formula_11 in Gaussian units and formula_15 in SI are both dimensionless, and they have the same numeric value. By contrast, the magnetic susceptibility formula_13 is unitless in both systems, but has \"different numeric values\" in the two systems for the same material:\n\nThe electric and magnetic fields can be written in terms of a vector potential A and a scalar potential φ:\n\nThe conversion factors are written both symbolically and numerically. The numerical conversion factors can be derived from the symbolic conversion factors by dimensional analysis. For example, the top row says formula_21, a relation which can be verified with dimensional analysis, by expanding formula_18 and C in SI base units, and expanding Fr in Gaussian base units.\n\nIt is surprising to think of measuring capacitance in centimetres. One useful example is that a centimetre of capacitance is the capacitance between a sphere of radius 1 cm in vacuum and infinity.\n\nAnother surprising unit is measuring resistivity in units of seconds. A physical example is: Take a parallel-plate capacitor, which has a \"leaky\" dielectric with permittivity 1 but a finite resistivity. After charging it up, the capacitor will discharge itself over time, due to current leaking through the dielectric. If the resistivity of the dielectric is \"X\" seconds, the half-life of the discharge is ~0.05X seconds. This result is independent of the size, shape, and charge of the capacitor, and therefore this example illuminates the fundamental connection between resistivity and time units.\n\nA number of the units defined by the table have different names but are in fact dimensionally equivalent—i.e., they have the same expression in terms of the base units cm, g, s. (This is analogous to the distinction in SI between becquerel and Hz, or between newton metre and joule.) The different names help avoid ambiguities and misunderstandings as to what physical quantity is being measured. In particular, \"all\" of the following quantities are dimensionally equivalent in Gaussian units, but they are nevertheless given different unit names as follows:\n\nAny formula can be converted between Gaussian and SI units by using the symbolic conversion factors from Table 1 above.\n\nFor example, the electric field of a stationary point charge has the SI formula\nwhere \"r\" is distance, and the \"SI\" subscripts indicate that the electric field and charge are defined using SI definitions. If we want the formula to instead use the Gaussian definitions of electric field and charge, we look up how these are related using Table 1, which says:\nTherefore, after substituting and simplifying, we get the Gaussian-units formula:\nwhich is the correct Gaussian-units formula, as mentioned in a previous section.\n\nFor convenience, the table below has a compilation of the symbolic conversion factors from Table 1. To convert any formula from Gaussian units to SI units using this table, replace each symbol in the Gaussian column by the corresponding expression in the SI column (vice versa to convert the other way). This will reproduce any of the specific formulas given in the list above, such as Maxwell's equations, as well as any other formula not listed. For some examples of how to use this table, see:\n\n"}
{"id": "14362824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14362824", "title": "GenoPro", "text": "GenoPro\n\nGenoPro is a software application for drawing family trees and genograms. GenoPro can store additional information such as pictures, contacts, places, sources, occupation and education history for each individual, as well as document the relationships among individuals.\n\nGenoPro was created in 1998 by Daniel Morin while studying computer engineering at the University of Waterloo. His original idea stemmed from his father's request to design a genogram during his training as a family counselor.\n\nGenoPro has had many constant updates and improvements over the years. The following is a list of major version number updates. \n\nGenoPro’s architecture revolves around the pedigree layout where the user can view the entire genealogy tree at once, including family branches in any direction to illustrate the complex scenarios based on today's reconstructed families. With GenoPro, the user can manually customize the layout by positioning the individuals as well as using color to graphically emphasize what he/she feels is important in the family, such as ethnicity, culture, citizenship, education level, religion, political affiliations, and diseases in the case of medical pedigrees.\n\nGenoPro can split a large family tree into many sub-trees and hyperlink them together. With only two mouse clicks, the user can move an entire branch to another sheet. GenoPro creates the necessary hyperlinks to connect the trees. Supporting multiple sub trees is necessary for scaling large family trees containing tens of thousands of individuals. \n\nGenoPro can display data just like traditional genealogy software. GenoPro's spreadsheet includes hyperlinks to navigate between any objects, from parents to children to siblings, or across pictures, places, sources and citations. GenoPro's spreadsheet allows various functions, including in-place editing, bulk-editing, finding and replacing, data sorting, copying and pasting with other commercial spreadsheet applications, and of course, unlimited use of the undo/redo function for every operation.\n\nGenoPro displays special symbols to distinguish different family relationships such as marriage, divorce, cohabitation and love affairs, as well as other symbols for emotional relationships such as friendship, love, distrust, hostility and jealousy.\n\nGenoPro supports the creation of same-sex relationships, unlike other programs such as Personal Ancestral File, which do not.\n\nGenoPro's report generator can create HTML pages linked to interactive SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) family trees. Reports in GenoPro can be customized by modifying the full source code for each built-in report. GenoPro's report generator uses scripting languages such as VBScript and JavaScript. GenoPro sports built-in ASP objects and many additional objects making it easy to generate elaborate reports. GenoPro can also load third-party COM modules made in other programming languages such C++, C#, VB.NET or Java and/or connect to external databases such as Microsoft SQL, MySQL, or Oracle to fetch additional data for generating a report. The current version of GenoPro includes a new type of report to generate Microsoft Word and OpenOffice documents.\n\nGenoPro has its own object-oriented database engine designed to foster hierarchical data and circular references. Hierarchical data is the key for avoiding redundant data, which in turn eliminates inconsistencies, and reduces typing and memory storage. The greatest benefit of hierarchical data is providing a hierarchy for classifying data, such as grouping places by country, state, city and buildings. A building, such as a hospital or cemetery may further be divided into rooms and lots for finer data granularity. Since places are objects, the user can enter minute details, from street addresses and pictures, to latitude and longitude for GPS positioning. Any place deriving from a parent place will inherit its parent's values, unless overwritten.\n\nGenoPro's report generator understands hierarchical data and its generated reports give the user the option to expand each node to view details. Also, the report generator displays Geo Mapping in the Google Map for every place defined by a city name or a GPS position. Circular referencing is very common in genealogy, such as displaying a picture for a place, and linking this place to its original picture. Relational databases do not handle circular referencing, or if such a catastrophic scenario happens, the data is in a deadlock and cannot be deleted. Hierarchical data is nearly impossible to achieve for standard databases without writing massive bug-prone code requiring excessive processing, thus rendering the entire application extremely slow and unusable for large amounts of data.\n\nGenoPro is available in 56 languages, including Albanian, Arabic, Brazilian Portuguese, Bulgarian, Catalan, Czech, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Indonesian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Scots Gaelic, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish, Vietnamese and Ukrainian. GenoPro features an online collaboration system where users can translate the menus, dialogs and error messages.\n\nGenoPro uses XML as its core file format, and its file extension .gno is a zipped-XML file. The user may rename the file extension .gno to .zip for editing the content of the genealogy document with a text editor. GenoPro can also import and export data in the GEDCOM format.\nIt is important to realize that the GenoPro GEDCOM import cannot be relied upon to accurately transfer data from other genealogy programs.\n\nRunning GenoPro on a Macintosh requires special software such as Parallels, or Virtual PC for older non-Intel Macs. GenoPro runs on Linux and Mac with Wine, but without the report generator.\n\n"}
{"id": "32536895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32536895", "title": "Human Rights Logo", "text": "Human Rights Logo\n\nThe Human Rights Logo has its origin in the international \"Logo for Human Rights\" initiative, which was started in 2010. Its goal was to create an internationally recognized logo to support the global human rights movement. The winning logo was created by Predrag Stakić from Serbia.\n\nThe Human Rights Logo combines the silhouette of a hand with that of a bird, and a white thumb grabbing the bird. It is intended as a peaceful contribution towards strengthening human rights and as such is meant to be used across cultural and language borders. The logo is now available to everyone at no cost as an open source product. It is free from rights and can be used worldwide by everyone without paying fees or obtaining licenses.\n\nThe goal of the Logo for Human Rights initiative was to create an internationally recognized symbol for human rights. To this end, an international online design competition starting on 3 May 2011 (World Press Freedom Day) launched a global appeal for submissions of logo designs and put them to a vote. The competition until today is known as one of the largest, most complex creative crowdsourcing projects ever conducted.\n\nFrom the more than 15,300 suggestions from over 190 countries a collective decision by all participants selected the top ten logos. After which an international jury decided on the top ten logos. From these 10 logos, the internet community selected a winner within a three-week voting period.\nThe competition officially ended on 23 September with the presentation of the universal logo for human rights during UN General Assembly week in New York City.\n\nThe presentation of the winning logo took place on 23 September 2011 in New York, with former editor-in-chief of \"Time Magazine\" Michael Elliott hosting the event.\nIn speeches, television journalist Ann Curry and German Federal Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle, as well as human rights activists Carolyn Gomes from Jamaica and Angelina Atyam from Uganda, emphasized the importance of a universal symbol in the worldwide struggle for human rights. The musical highlight of the evening was a performance by soprano Jessye Norman.\n\nThe initiative is supported by a jury of renowned and high-ranking personalities, who have worked to further the cause of human rights. These include:\n\n\nIn addition to the jury members, the foreign ministers of the founding countries (Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Chile, the Czech Republic, Germany, Mauritius, Senegal, Singapore and Uruguay) are partners to the initiative.\n\n"}
{"id": "58986138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58986138", "title": "Hurtcore", "text": "Hurtcore\n\nHurtcore is a name given to particularly extreme online pornography, usually involving degrading violence and paedophilia.\n"}
{"id": "28934448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28934448", "title": "International child abduction in the United States", "text": "International child abduction in the United States\n\nAs a result of its high level of immigration and emigration and its status as common source and destination for a large amount of international travel the United States has more incoming and outgoing international child abductions per year than any other country. To address this issue the United States played an active role in the drafting of the 1980 Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction (commonly referred to as the \"Hague Abduction Convention\" or simply the \"Abduction Convention\".) Although the United States was one of the first nations to sign the Convention in 1981 the Convention did not enter into force for the US until 1988 with the enactment by Congress of the International Child Abduction Remedies Act which translated the Convention into US law.\n\nUnder the Hague Abduction Convention the United States is required to fulfill many requirements designed to protect children from the harmful effects of international child abduction. Domestic and foreign parents and attorneys have criticized the United States for its alleged failures to adequately fulfill these obligations on behalf of foreign and domestic families and children and in violation of international law.\n\nThe law of the United States consists of many levels of codified and uncodified forms of law, of which the most important is the United States Constitution, the foundation of the federal government of the United States. The Constitution sets out the boundaries of federal law, which consists of constitutional acts of Congress, constitutional treaties ratified by Congress, constitutional regulations promulgated by the executive branch, and case law originating from the federal judiciary.\n\nThe Constitution and federal law are the supreme law of the land, thus preempting conflicting state and territorial laws in the fifty U.S. states and in the territories. However, the scope of federal preemption is limited, because the scope of federal power is itself rather limited. In the unique dual-sovereign system of American federalism. Most U.S. law (especially the actual \"living law\" of contract, tort, criminal, and family law experienced by the majority of citizens on a day-to-day basis) consists primarily of state law, which can and does vary greatly from one state to the next.\n\nAt both the federal and state levels, the law of the United States was originally derived largely from the common law system of English law, which was in force at the time of the Revolutionary War. However, U.S. law has since diverged greatly from its English ancestor both in terms of substance and procedure, and has incorporated a number of civil law innovations.\n\nStates are separate sovereigns with their own state constitutions, state governments, and state courts (including state supreme courts). They retain plenary power to make laws covering anything not preempted by the federal Constitution, federal statutes, or international treaties ratified by the federal Senate. Normally, state supreme courts are the final interpreters of state constitutions and state law, unless their interpretation itself presents a federal issue, in which case a decision may be appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court by way of a petition for writ of certiorari.\n\nIn 1922, the Court applied the Supremacy Clause to international treaties, holding in the case of \"Missouri v. Holland\", 252 U.S. 416 (1920), that the Federal government's ability to make treaties is supreme over any State concerns that such treaties might abrogate states' rights arising under the Tenth Amendment.\n\nThe Hague Abduction Convention is a multilateral treaty (in force since 1 December 1983) aimed at providing an expeditious method to return children who are victim of international child abduction. The Convention was drafted to “to secure the prompt return of children wrongfully removed to or retained in any Contracting State\" diverse from their country of habitual residence, and \"ensure that rights of custody and of access under the law of one Contracting State are effectively respected in the other Contracting States.”\n\nAlthough the United States was one of the first nations to sign the Convention in 1981 the Convention did not enter into force for the United States until 1988 with the ratification of the treaty and enactment by Congress of the International Child Abduction Remedies Act which translated the Convention into US law. This was 5 years after the entry into force of the treaty.\n\nThe United States has two separate court systems, a Federal court system and a State court system. Both types of courts have authority to hear a Hague Abduction Convention case, as established by the International Child Abduction Remedies Act. It is up to the parents of abducted children and their attorneys to decide whether to file a petition for return in State or Federal court.\n\nAlthough the exact implementation varies by state (also because states are free to adopt their own organizational scheme for judicial matters), trial courts are the general court of first instance to hear a Convention case within the State court system.\n\nSince the enactment of the ICARA and simultaneous ratification of the treaty by the United States Congress allowed it to enter into force in 1988, a number of important, and precedent setting decisions have been made on the Hague Convention's interpretation within the United States by federal courts.\n\nThe first Hague Abduction Convention case to be considered by the United States Supreme Court revolved around a whether or not a child from Chile was \"wrongfully removed,\" as understood by the Convention, when a \"ne exeat\" order existing forbidding the custodial parent from removing the child from the country. The Court found broad acceptance for the view that a \"ne exeat\" right, or a right to prevent a child's removal from his country of residence, is roughly equal to \"joint custody\" and is, thus, a \"right of custody.\" Accordingly, when the child was removed from Chile in violation of Mr. Abbott's \"ne exeat\" right, the child was \"wrongfully removed\" within the meaning of the Hague Convention.\n\nThe US State department publishes yearly reports are known as the Hague Abduction Convention Compliance Reports (or: Compliance Reports) in which statistics are presented on child abduction. The publication is a requirement by the US Congress and treats both compliance with the convention by member states and information on child abduction cases in non-member states. The reports highlight countries that they are non-compliant with the convention or exhibit a \"pattern of noncompliance.\" Since 1999, Mexico has been cited every year as being non-compliant or exhibiting \"patterns of noncompliance\". The reports form the basis for statistics on the United States and international child abduction.\n\nAn overview about the number of cases involved is shown in the Table below. The table is followed by a country-specific evaluation of the abduction status in relation to the United States. \nOnly Hong Kong, Macau, Israel, Thailand and Sri Lanka, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan are contracting states to the Child Abduction Convention. Of these, Israel has been named several years as having \"enforcement problems\" in the complicance reports.\n\nJapan is -with India- one of only two non-contracting states to the convention to rank as one of the top ten destination countries for the abduction of American children. Moreover, there is a year by year increase in abduction cases. In 2009, 73 outstanding cases involving 104 children who have been abducted to or retained in Japan by parents were reported. An additional 29 cases involve American parties in Japan with one parent denied access to their child. In the 2010 report 79 child abduction cases were mentioned involving 100 children. A State Department official stated in 2008 that no child has ever been returned to the United States from Japan as a result of diplomatic or legal means The official stated he knew of only three cases where children have returned to America, two involving reconciliation of parents, and one in which a 15-year-old child escaped to the American embassy.\n\nIndia is not a signatory of the Hague Abduction Convention and India does not consider international child abduction a crime. Indian courts rarely recognize U.S. custody orders, preferring to exert their own jurisdiction in rulings that tend to favor the parent who wants to keep the child in India. In the rare scenario that a case is resolved, it is usually due to an agreement between the parents, rather than the result of court orders or arrest warrants.\n\nCultural factors often impact child custody decisions in India. For example, Indian courts rarely grant custody to a parent residing outside of India, even if both the child and abducting parent are American citizens. Additionally, the courts tend to favor mothers when determining custody.\n\nIndia does require the signature of both parents for an Indian passport to be issued to children younger than 18 years. India also requires exit permits for children.\n\nSaudi Arabia is not a signatory of the Hague Abduction Convention nor are there any international or bilateral treaties in force between Saudi Arabia and the United States dealing with international parental child abduction.\n\nIn Saudi Arabia, child custody is based on Islamic law. The primary concern of Saudi courts in deciding child custody cases is that the child be raised in accordance with the Islamic faith. Most custody disputes in Saudi Arabia are handled by the Islamic Sharia courts. In rare cases, the Board of Grievances, the most senior non-Sharia court, has ruled on custody disputes.\n\nSaudi courts generally do not award custody of children to non-Saudi women. If the mother is an Arab Muslim, judges will usually not grant her custody of children unless she is residing in Saudi Arabia, or the father is not a Muslim. All Saudi citizens are considered to be Muslim.\n\nSince Saudi women are prohibited from marrying non-Muslims, custody disputes between a Saudi mother and American father would be heard by the Sharia court, which would usually apply Islamic rules of custody. If the mother wins custody, the father is usually granted visitation rights. According to Saudi law, a child whose mother is Saudi and father is non-Saudi is not granted Saudi citizenship. However, even if an American father wins custody of his children, he may still need permission from the Saudi mother to remove the children from Saudi Arabia.\n\nNormally, under Sharia law, a mother can maintain custody of her male children until the age of nine, and female children until age seven. In practice the courts favor keeping children within a strict Islamic environment. Sharia court judges have broad discretion in custody cases and often make exceptions to these general guidelines.\n\nEven when a mother who is residing in Saudi Arabia is granted physical custody of children, the father maintains legal custody and has the right to determine where the children live and travel. In many cases, the father has been able to assume legal custody of children against the wishes of the mother when she is unable or unwilling to meet certain conditions set by law for her to maintain her custodial rights. For example, if the mother moves to another country, the father is entitled to have custody. A court can sever a mother's custody if it determines that the mother is incapable of safeguarding the child or of bringing the child up in accordance with the appropriate religious standards. The mother can lose custody by remarrying a non-Muslim, or by residing in a home with non-relatives. Sharia law allows custody of children to be awarded to the closest male relative of a Saudi father in the case of death or imprisonment of the father, even if the Saudi father has made clear his wish that the children's mother have full custody.\n\nCustody orders and judgments of foreign courts are generally not enforceable in Saudi Arabia. Courts in Saudi Arabia will not enforce U.S. court decrees ordering a parent in Saudi Arabia to pay child support.\n\nWomen entering Saudi Arabia with the intent of visiting their children may do so only with the written permission of the father of the children. The father must file a \"statement of no objection\" with the Saudi Ministry of Interior before the mother will be granted a visa to enter the Kingdom. This includes Muslim fathers who are non-Saudi nationals. If the father refuses to sponsor the mother, or to authorize a child’s travel to another country, there is little that can be done to effect a visit. The U.S. Embassy and Consulates General are not able to help American parents to obtain visas to Saudi Arabia without a no-objection letter. Neither the U.S. State Department nor the U.S. Mission in Saudi Arabia may serve as a woman's sponsor. Women visitors are required to be met by their sponsor upon arrival in Saudi Arabia.\n\nIf a non-Saudi father wants to enter the Kingdom to visit his children, he can do so by applying for a Saudi visa with proof that his children are living in Saudi Arabia. Saudi authorities may consult with the mother if she is Saudi, who may be able to prevent issuance of the visa.\n\nSome American Muslim parents have considered traveling to Saudi Arabia on Umrah (religious pilgrimage to Mecca) as a means to visit their children. However, issuance of an Umrah visa does not guarantee that a parent will be permitted to see his or her children once in the Kingdom. If a woman is not divorced, the Saudi Embassy has the right to ask for her husband's permission for another family member (e.g. son) to act as the mother's Mahram. If the mother is divorced, the Saudi Embassy will ask to see the divorce certificate before granting the Umrah visa. Women married to Saudis should keep in mind that even when they enter the Kingdom on an Umrah visa, they would need their Saudi husband's permission to depart the country.\n\nPersons who obtain a visa for business or religious visits (Hajj and Umrah) with the intention of visiting their children may face legal penalties including detention and/or deportation. While visitor visas are issued for approved tour groups following organized itineraries, these visitors are not permitted to travel outside the set itinerary.\n\nBefore traveling to Saudi Arabia to visit their children, women should consider whether they obtained a complete Islamic declaration of divorce from the Sharia court in Saudi Arabia. Secular, American divorce orders are not recognized by the Sharia courts. Although an Islamic divorce can be obtained from several mosques within the U.S., it has been the experience of several divorced spouses in the U.S. that the Sharia courts in Saudi Arabia will not recognize orders originating from an American mosque. The purpose of obtaining a Sharia declaration is to establish the legal personal status of the mother prior to traveling to the Kingdom. If an American woman is considered to still be married, the \"husband\" can prohibit the woman from departing Saudi Arabia.\n\nExit visas are required to leave Saudi Arabia. The U.S. Embassy or Consulates General cannot obtain exit visas for American citizens. Women must have permission from their husband or father to exit Saudi Arabia. The government of Saudi Arabia has been known to issue international arrest warrants against women who have taken their children from Saudi Arabia without the father's permission.\n\nMost countries in Europe have are contracting parties to the Hague Abduction Convention, including all countries of the European Union. Most of these countries have never been mentioned in the compliance reports. Germany, Greece, Poland and Switzerland are notable exceptions.\n\nThe Hague Abduction Convention entered into force between Germany and the United States on December 1, 1990. According to the [compliance reports, 71 children abducted from the United States to Germany in 2009 and 20 children abducted from Germany to the United States during the same period. Between 1999 and 2010 the reports have cited Germany as a \"country of concern,\" having \"enforcement problems,\" being \"not fully compliant\" or \"demonstrated patterns of noncompliance\" almost every year.\n\nThe Hague Convention came into force between the United States and Greece on June 1, 1993. Greece has been cited in the compliance Reports almost every year as either a \"Country of Concern,\" having \"Enforcement Problems,\" or \"Demonstrating Patterns of Noncompliance.\"\n\nInstitutionally, the legal framework in Greece seems to support the necessary mechanisms for the Convention to function effectively. The Convention has force of law and has primacy over domestic law; first instance courts can hear Convention cases under expedited procedures (provisional or “emergency” measures), enforcement mechanisms exist and the Greek Central Authority will provide pro-bono legal assistance to victimized parents during Hague proceedings before the appropriate court in Greece.\nThe Hague Abduction Convention came into force between the United States and Poland on November 11, 1992. Poland has been cited in the compliance Reports for every year from 2000 to 2008 as either a \"country of concern,\" having \"enforcement problems\" or \"demonstrating patterns of noncompliance\" with the Hague Abduction Convention resulting in an ongoing dialogue between the Polish Consul General and the Office of Children's Issues Director in Washington, D.C. and U.S. Embassy officials and Ministry of Justice officials in Warsaw. Several high-level meetings between U.S. Embassy Warsaw and the Polish Ministry of Justice have been held where Ministry representatives indicated an intent to address many of these compliance issues and improve Poland’s Convention performance. Officials from the U.S. Department of State and the U.S. Embassy in Poland have raised compliance issues and individual abduction cases with high-ranking officials from the Polish Government through diplomatic notes, formal demarches, and communications with the Polish Central Authority with former assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs Maura Harty raising the issue during bilateral meetings with her Polish counterpart.\n\nAmong the issues cited in the Compliance Reports, there is no specific legislation that implements the Convention in Poland. Unless there is a voluntary return, children normally remain in Poland during the entire Hague process, which often takes years. There is a perception that there is a gender bias in favor of mothers when they are abducting parents. Even though enforcement legislation has been passed, there appears to be reluctance on the part of officials to follow through with enforcement. A faulty translation into Polish of Article 13 of the Convention which radically lowers the standard for refusing returns by saying that return can be denied if it would put the child in an \"unfavorable\" rather than an \"intolerable\" situation that some courts still use four years after the Ministry of Justice agreed in 1999 to distribute an accurate translation. Furthermore, Polish law does not permit courts to consider resources for child welfare and protection in the country of habitual residence when asked to consider the grave risk defense.\n\nPolish authorities are often unable to locate the children and their abductors after courts ordered the return of a child. Law enforcement in Poland is limited by the fact that neither parental abduction nor the failure to comply with a Convention return order is a criminal offense in Poland. Consequently, Polish authorities have fewer investigative resources available to locate children and their abducting parents. The lack of an adequate domestic statutory framework with enforcement mechanisms (e.g., a parent who becomes a fugitive to avoid complying with a final return judgment does not commit a \"crime\"—and therefore cannot be the subject of a fugitive warrant—unless the parent has been stripped of parental rights.)\n\nRefusing to obey an order seems to carry few negative consequences for the taking parent. In some instances, the court rewarded the taking parent who refused to comply with a court order by ultimately ruling that, because so much time had elapsed, it was not in the child's best interests to be returned after all.\n\nEven in cases where the left-behind parent has provided specific information about where the child is located, the ability of the Polish authorities to verify it is ineffective. Further, once a child is located, there does not appear to be any mechanism to ensure that abducting parents cannot further abscond or conceal the child's whereabouts. This is largely due to the fact that international parental child abduction is merely a civil offense in Poland.\n\nCourts routinely order psychological evaluations and home studies. In one U.S. case an abducting parent in hiding was able to protest a return order in court while also collecting child support payments from the government. This situation indicates that institutionally there is a disturbing lack of coordination among local law enforcement, the Polish Central Authority, and social welfare agencies.\n\nThe Polish procedure does limit the number of courts that can hear Hague cases in an attempt to allow judges to develop Hague expertise and the Polish Central Authority will provide pro bono legal assistance for victim parents during Hague proceedings before the appropriate court in Poland.\nSwitzerland has been frequently cited in the compliance reports as either a \"Country of Concern,\" having \"Enforcement Problems,\" or \"Demonstrating Patterns of Noncompliance.\" In the 2010 report it was noted that: \"delays in processing and enforcement often go on for weeks or months years, Swiss courts often treat Convention cases as custody decisions, invoking the child's “best interests” as a reason for denying return, and performing merits-based custody assessments, Swiss courts - up to and including Switzerland's highest court, often show bias toward the abducting parent, especially when the taking parent is the mother\". High-level Swiss officials have defended this practice citing the “special relationship” between mothers and young children as influencing its decision to uphold the lower court's denial of the left-behind parent's application for return of an abducted child to the United States. The report also observed that Swiss authorities are reluctant to actively enforce orders granting return to the United States or access to the child by the left-behind parent. Law enforcement has made only cursory efforts to locate taking parent and abducted children.\n\nAccording to the statistics in the US Department of State's Compliance Reports, as of 2010, 721 out of 1194, or 60%, of the children abducted from the United States to a Hague Convention partner were taken to Latin America with Mexico alone accounting for 474 or 40%.\n\nThe Child Abduction Convention entered into force between Brazil with the United States in 2003. The US Department of State denoted Brazil as a country demonstrating \"patterns of noncompliance\" with the Hague Abduction Convention in 2008 and 2009. In 2010 the status of Brazil's compliance was downgraded to that of \"non-compliant.\" According to a 2009 New York Times report, there were at the time around fifty unsolved Convention cases for children abducted from the United States to Brazil. The report states that Brazil has a history of non-compliance, and the Brazilian judiciary has a general inability to adjudicate a final and unappealable decision in Convention cases.\n\nThe subject of child abduction between the United States and Brazil received sustained media attention during 2009 and early 2010 as a result of the Goldman child abduction case. US Congress introduced H.R. 2702, legislation to suspend Brazil's Generalized System of Preferences trading benefit. The case was also discussed on the US House of Representatives floor with a statement from Congressman Chris Smith (Republican, New Jersey), a staunch supporter of David Goldman, a New Jersey resident; U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton treated the case as a diplomatic issue of Brazil's obligations under the Hague Convention. After nearly six years of litigation in Brazil, U.S. Senator Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey placed a hold on a trade bill which allows certain countries, including Brazil, to export certain products to the United States duty-free. Days later, by a decision of Brazil's Supreme Court, Sean was handed over to his father on December 24, 2009.\n\nChile signed the Hague Abduction Convention in 1994 and it entered into force with the United States in the same year. The US Department of State has denoted Chile as a country demonstrating \"patterns of noncompliance\" or a \"not fully compliant\" with the Hague Abduction Convention every year during the five period between 2005 and 2009 for its judicial Performance. \nChilean courts delay Convention cases and often improperly treat them as child custody decisions, citing the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. U.S. parents often experience bias by the courts in favor of Chilean parents, especially Chilean mothers. In addition, it is customary in Chilean courts to order psychological or social evaluations in all cases involving minor children, regardless of whether there is evidence of possible risk to the child in being returned to his or her country of habitual residence. Because the Hague Convention focuses on returning a child to his or her country of habitual residence, the United States Central Authority takes the view that psychological evaluations are unnecessary, and cause inappropriate delays in processing cases, if there is no evidence of risk to the child should the court order the child’s return.\n\nAnother trend is for Chilean courts to deny Convention applications upon finding that the child is well settled in the new environment. This result, which could be avoided if Chilean courts handled Convention cases more expeditiously, leaves the victim parent with the much less desirable option of filing an application under the Convention for mere access to the child, or for visitation, and even these applications in some cases have not resulted in contact between the left behind family and the child. In 2008, a Chilean court ordered a scheduled access visit by the LBP, and the left behind parent purchased and confirmed his plane ticket and accommodations for the trip. Hours before the parent was scheduled to board the plane for Chile, the Chilean Central Authority notified him that the Chilean judge had suspended the scheduled visitation. In April 2008, the Chilean Central Authority sponsored a seminar on the Convention and its application in Chile, including topics such as the emotional impact of international child abduction on children and parents, and the role of “network judges” in promoting the correct application of the Convention in Chile. Several months after the seminar, the Chilean Supreme Court designated a family court judge to serve as Chile’s network judge for Convention cases.\n\nThe Hague Abduction Conventionentered into force in Colombia in 1996. According to the Convention Compliance Reports, Colombia ranks as one of the top ten destinations for the abduction of children from the United States. It has also been cited several times as a country demonstrating \"patterns of noncompliance,\" being totally \"noncompliant\" and a \"country of concern\". In cases involving the Abduction Convention, recent legislation by the Colombian Congress has placed jurisdiction with the family courts. In remote areas of the country where there are no family courts, Hague Convention cases are heard by civil court circuit judges. While Colombian courts can recognize or enforce U.S. custody orders, they generally refuse to do so and Colombian court orders prevail over foreign court orders. Colombian courts favor parents of Colombian nationality and it is very rare for a court in Colombia to grant custody to a parent residing in the U.S. when there is a parent residing in Colombia.\n\nInternational parental abduction is covered in the Colombian Penal Code as kidnapping, with circumstances that can increase or reduce the punishment. Colombia does not consider international parental kidnapping as an extraditable offense.\n\nIn contrast to United States requirements, a Colombian passport for a minor child can be obtained with only one parent's consent, though Colombia restricts the departure of Colombian children from the country when they are not in the company of both parents. Although this prevents misuse of a Colombian passport to abduct children from Colombia it facilitates abductions from countries like the United States who have no exit controls. If a parent wishes to prevent the issuance of a Colombian passport to their minor child, they must submit a request to the Ministerio de la Proteccion Social, Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar (ICBF). If the ICBF concurs with the parent's request, it will notify the Colombian passport office and Colombian Embassies and Consulates to place a hold on the issuance of a passport to the minor child. Parents may only submit a request through ICBF, not through a Colombian Embassy or Consulate.\n\nCosta Rica has not ratified the Hague Abduction Convention and does not allow interstate enforcement of custody and visitation orders. According to the US Department of state, Costa Rica is also well known to accept refugee applications from those mothers/fathers fleeing U.S. justice allowing abducting parents to claim some sort of legal problem with the US and seek asylum in Costa Rica.\n\nAll children born in Costa Rica acquire Costa Rican citizenship at birth and, to prevent international child abduction, may only depart the country upon presentation of an exit permit issued by immigration authorities.\n\nIn December 1997, the U.S. State Department targeted diplomatic entreaties at eight countries whose accession to the Hague Abduction Convention the Department judged would be most useful and effective to the United States, one of these was the Dominican Republic.\n\nThe Dominican Republic signed and ratified the Abduction Convention in 2004 and it entered into force with the United States in 2007. Since the treaty went into effect the Dominican Republic ranks in the top ten list of countries that are the source and destination of abducted children between the United States.\n\nIn their 2010 Compliance Report, the State Department added an outgoing child abduction case with the Dominican Republic to their new \"Notable Cases\" section. They noted the Dominican Republic's Central authority evinced an \"incorrect understanding of various articles of the Convention\" and that requests for clarification from their Central Authority did not receive any substantive responses.\n\nThe Hague Abduction Convention entered into force between Ecuador and the United States on March 1, 1992. Over the years Ecuador has been cited in a number of Compliance Reports as a \"noncompliant\" country or a country demonstrating a \"pattern of noncompliance.\" In the year period covered by the 2010 Report there were 24 children abducted from the U.S. to Ecuador and 7 children abducted from Ecuador to the U.S.\n\nEcuador has demonstrated noncompliance both in its judicial performance and its Central Authority performance. Convention case hearings are excessively delayed, in violation of the Convention’s principle of\npromptly returning children to their habitual country of residence. In addition, courts treat cases as custody decisions, rather than a determination of the appropriate jurisdiction to decide custody. Having delayed proceedings themselves, the courts of Ecuador have been known to determine that, due to the delay, children have resettled in their new environment.\n\nEfforts of the United States to communicate about cases with the Ecuadorian Central Authority (ECA) for the Abduction Convention have not been effective with ECA consistently being unresponsive to the US Central Authority's (USCA) requests for case updates and copies of court rulings. The USCA is not aware of any efforts by the ECA to train judges about the Convention.\n\nThe Hague Abduction Convention entered into force between Honduras and the United States in 1994. Honduras is the only country to be listed in every singled Compliance Report as non-compliant since the reports began in 1999. The implementation of the Hague Convention in Honduras is broken on every level. It has an executive branch and legislature that is, at various times, unsure if it has actually signed the Convention. Its Central Authority sometimes does not exist at all and when it is reestablished does not fulfill any of its roles and is chronically understaffed. The judiciary demonstrates a complete lack of understanding of the treaty and, even in the rare case that a return order is issued, it is not enforced.\n\nIn 11 years of reporting on Convention compliance in Honduras there has not been a single case where a return was judicially ordered and enforced. Like with Mexico, would be abductors of children to Honduras can legally take children across the southern land border without the permission of the other parent or even a passport.\n\nThe Hague Abduction Convention entered into force between Mexico and the United States in 1991. Mexico is the number one destination for international child abductions from the United States and the United States is the number one destination for children abducted from Mexico. The U.S. State Department reports that 65% of all outgoing international parental abductions from the United States to Hague Convention countries are to Mexico, and that 41% of all incoming international parental abductions to the United States are from Mexico. Mexico is the only country that has been found to be \"Noncompliant, \"Not Fully Compliant\" or having a \"Pattern of Noncompliance\" in every single Compliance Report compiled by the US Department of State since they began in 2001.\n\nOne of the primary roadblocks to Mexico's successful implementation of the Hague Abduction Convention is its inability to locate children. This issue has been cited numerous times in the US State Department's annual Compliance Reports. In some cases, the US State Department has reported providing Mexican authorities with detailed information on the whereabouts of abducted children including the exact address where they are living but Mexican authorities still report an inability to locate the children. In late 2009 the Mexican Central Authority gave a presentation at an international symposium on international child abduction where they cited improvements in this area as a result of turning over the responsibility of locating children to the Mexican Federal Police (AFI), rather than exclusively using Interpol who has no authority and must request the involvement of Mexican law enforcement to take any real measures in Mexico.\n\nOf particular relevance to Hague Convention litigation in Mexico is the Mexican Amparo, which translates to \"protection\" or \"help.\" It is a Mexican legal procedure to protect constitutional rights that was incorporated into the 1847 national constitution. Mexico's \"recurso de amparo\" is found in Articles 103 and 107 of the Mexican Constitution Any Mexican citizen can file an amparo claiming that a Mexican authority is violating their constitutional rights. Federal District courts are available in every state in Mexico and always have secretaries available to receive an Amparo. In cases of international child abduction an amparo can be filed at any point and effectively blocks progression of legal procedures until it has been heard, often many months, or even years later. The decision in an Amparo trial can also be further appealed and multiple amparos may be filed during legal proceedings under the Hague Convention.\n\nCorruption is an intrinsic part of the problem with international child abduction in Mexico and affects every other aspect of the issue from locating children and judicial decisions to enforcing court orders for repatriation in the rare cases where the obstacles of locating children and judicial noncompliance have been overcome.\n\nThere is an Extradition Treaty between the United States of America and the United Mexican States (see 31 U.S.T. 5061) that, like many such treaties, provides for the extradition of a party who has been charged with or found guilty of an offense committed in one country. An offense is extraditable if it is a crime in both countries and punishable by incarceration for a period of one year or more. In theory this allows for the extradition of child abductors who have absconded to Mexico as child abduction is a federal crime there. In practice, US authorities rarely request extradition in preference of Hague Convention litigation, despite Mexico's gross noncompliance with the Convention and, even when they do, Mexico is not bound to deliver up its nationals and will frequently refuse to do so across the board, particularly in child abduction cases.\n\nAdditionally U.S.–Mexico border has the highest number of both legal and illegal crossings of any land border in the world. Although the border is guarded on the United States' side by more than seventeen thousand border patrol agents, they only have \"effective control\" of less than 700 miles of the 1,954 mile border. In terms of international child abduction from the US into Mexico specifically, the problem of poor border security in general is compounded by the fact the United States does not have exit controls; American children may be taken across the southern border of the United States without having the necessary documentation to get back into the country and there is no accounting for children taken across the border into Mexico, leading to thousands of missing children posters with the words \"may have traveled to Mexico\" on them.\n\nPanama’s performance in implementing the Convention was previously cited as “non-compliant”. However, progress has been noted in Panama’s handling of its Convention responsibilities during the 2005 reporting period and the United States presently considers Panama to be “not fully compliant” in its implementation of the Convention. \nThe Hague Abduction Convention entered into force between Venezuela and the United States at the start of 1997. According to the compliance Reports, Venezuela was cited as a country \"non-compliant\" with the Hague Convention in 2006 and as demonstrating \"patterns of noncompliance\" in 2008 and 2009. The Venezuelan Central Authority typically failed to be responsive to inquiries regarding abduction cases by the United States Department of State, the US Embassy in Caracas, or victimized parents. Venezuelan judges often misinterpret return and access applications under the Convention as a request for them to determine custody or visitation rights and have been observed to have a nationalistic bias in favor of the Venezuelan parent.\n\nIn addition, despite return orders issued by lower courts, the abducting parents can and do take advantage of prolonged appeals processes to significantly delay the return of children. These delays are particularly pronounced in cases in which the left-behind parent can not afford to retain a private attorney. Without the use of a private attorney, cases take very long.\n\nThe United States government generally, and the U.S. Department of State specifically, have been subject to sustained criticism for not doing enough to prevent the abduction of American children or support American parents of internationally abducted children in their recovery efforts. They have also been criticized for, conversely, catering to foreign countries and parents with abducted children taken to the United States, and not doing enough to facilitate the recovery efforts of foreign parents.\n\nAmerican parents complain that they are essentially alone in dealing with foreign courts and legal systems. The US State Department has a virtual monopoly on information in such cases, but refuses to act as a vigorous advocate for left-behind American parents while also preventing the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children or anyone else from playing that role. State Department attorney Thomas Johnson remarked that when he reminded one senior State Department official with Child Abduction Convention responsibilities that she works for the American people, her immediate response was: \"I don’t work for the American people; I work for the Secretary of State\", demonstrating the Department’s inherent conflict of interest (i.e., a desire to maintain \"good\" bilateral foreign relations for their own sake that overrides assertive and effective advocacy on behalf of American citizens).\n\nThe journalist Joel Mowbray wrote the book \"Dangerous Diplomacy\" on the role and culture of the US State Department. Mowbray's second chapter in \"Dangerous Diplomacy\", titled \"Cold Shoulder: State's Smallest Victim's\", is dedicated to an analysis of the assistance provided to American parents left in the wake of an international child abduction. It describes State's overriding desire to appease foreign governments and maintain \"good relations\" as having a conflict of interest between their responsibility to internationally abducted children as the designated United States Central Authority under the Hague Convention. This inherent conflict of interest between the two roles is magnified by what the book defines as the \"culture of State\", a culture characterized by extreme moral relativism, valuing process over substance and misplaced priorities that reward failures by promotions or high paying jobs \"consulting\" for the foreign government of the country that they'd previously been paid to advocate America's interests in.\n\n\n\"..the current system to secure the return of these abducted American children does not work and will not work unless it is changed profoundly. I don't doubt the sincerity or the dedication of the professionals in the State Department who have lead responsibility for this problem, but they do not have the tools and powers to do their job effectively. And unless Congress gives them the power and the tools we will be back here in five years or 10 years with another set of hearings, another group of parents with broken hearts and devastated dreams, and we will be making the same statements we are making today.\"\n\n\"the principal reason other nations, whether they are signatories to the Hague Convention or not, refuse to cooperate with the United States in returning abducted American children is that there are no real consequences for failing to do so.\"\n\n\"Let me be blunt, a diplomatic request for which there are no consequences for refusal is just a sophisticated version of begging. And there are no consequences today for Brazil or any other nation which refuses to return American children.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39690802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39690802", "title": "Interpersonal emotion regulation", "text": "Interpersonal emotion regulation\n\nInterpersonal emotion regulation is the process of changing the emotional experience of one's self or another person through social interaction. It encompasses both intrinsic emotion regulation (also known as emotional self-regulation), in which one attempts to alter their own feelings by recruiting social resources, as well as extrinsic emotion regulation, in which one deliberately attempts to alter the trajectory of other people's feelings.\n\nThe concept of interpersonal emotion regulation stems from earlier research into emotional self-regulation, which is the within-person process whereby people influence and change their own feelings. The field of psychology has traditionally focused on \"intra\"personal processes in which a person manages their own emotions individually outside of the social context. However, modern theories have expanded the concept of emotion regulation to include \"inter\"personal processes, in which emotion is regulated with or through other people. Interpersonal models emphasize that humans are social creatures who rarely experience emotions in isolation, and instead more commonly share, express, and manage their emotions with the help of others.\n\nIntrinsic interpersonal emotion regulation involves managing one's own emotions through social interaction, such as seeking social support or reassurance from others. Examples include calling a friend for advice, venting to a partner about a stressful situation, or engaging in conversation as a distraction from distress. In addition to regulating negative emotions, people also seek to amplify positive emotions by sharing good news with others. As with intrapersonal emotion regulation, people typically attempt to use interpersonal emotion regulation improve their affective state by decreasing negative emotions or increase positive emotions.\n\nExtrinsic interpersonal emotion regulation refers to the deliberate influence of others' feelings. It is one of the many ways how social factors influence an individual's emotions. Examples include trying to cheer up a friend who is upset, trying to make one's partner feel guilty for neglecting oneself, or trying to calm a stressed coworker. These examples illustrate that interpersonal emotion regulation may be used to make others feel better or worse, although making others feel better appears to be far more common.\n\nMany instances of interpersonal emotion regulation, such as those described above, are dyadic; in other words, they involve one person trying to influence the feelings of another person. However, interpersonal emotion regulation can occur between larger social groups. For example, in the workplace a leader might try to influence the feelings of a whole group of followers to make them feel more enthusiastic and motivated. Or in support groups, the whole group might work together to influence the feelings of a member to make the member feel less anxious or depressed.\n\nInterpersonal emotion regulation is used in most of the important social relationships that we have. Within the fields of developmental and clinical psychology, researchers have long-recognized that people try to influence others' emotions (e.g., mothers influence the feelings of their babies, therapists try to alleviate the sadness of their clients). More recently, social and organizational psychologists have also documented the use of interpersonal emotion regulation within romantic and familial relationships and in a range of work settings (e.g., hospitals, law firms, debt collection agencies, and prisons). Interpersonal emotion regulation may even be used towards complete strangers as a way of making social interactions run more smoothly.\n\nInterpersonal emotion regulation overlaps with social support, which involves giving others emotional, informational, or practical support. Models of interpersonal emotion regulation specify social support within the framework of regulatory goals to improve the feelings of one's self (by seeking support) or another person (by providing support). Emotion regulation mechanisms of social support include attentional deployment (e.g. distraction away from negative thoughts and toward the conversation) and cognitive change (e.g. encouragement to \"look on the bright side\" or change one's negative interpretation of a given situation).\n\nInterpersonal emotion regulation also shares links with other processes by which people come to influence others' emotions, such as emotional contagion, in which the emotions of one person are 'caught' by another person as a result of mere contact (e.g., if someone was having a terrible day, they might 'infect' their friends with their bad mood). Similarly, the compulsion to tell other people about our emotional experiences (termed the social sharing of emotions) can also result in other people coming to feel what we feel. The difference between these processes and interpersonal emotion regulation regards the level of processing involved. Interpersonal emotion regulation is a controlled process, whereby a person intentionally tries to change the way others feel. In contrast, emotional contagion is thought to be relatively automatic, engaged without conscious awareness, while social sharing is somewhat more conscious but typically lacks the intent to influence others' emotions.\n\nInterpersonal emotion regulation relates to emotional labor, the regulation of emotion as part of one's job role. In emotional labor, an employee (usually in a service or care role) is required to manage his or her emotions as part of the job (e.g., 'service with a smile'). Because employees can also be required to manage the emotions of their customers or clients as part of their job (e.g., debt collectors are required to elicit anxiety in relaxed debtors to encourage them to make a payment), interpersonal emotion regulation can be performed as a form of emotional labor.\n\nAnother related process is interpersonal influence, which involves trying to change the attitudes and/or behaviors of other people. The key difference here is that interpersonal emotion regulation is primarily concerned with changing other people's feelings; any changes to attitudes or behaviors are secondary to the impact on emotion.\n\nDrawing from evolutionary psychology, social baseline theory purports that humans have adapted to function in a social environment. The brain acts under the assumption that proximity to other people is the norm, or baseline condition. As opposed to social isolation, which is associated with stress and poor health, social proximity is associated with attenuated cardiovascular, hormonal, and neural responses to threat, as well as longevity and physical health. The presence of others is theorized to help individuals conserve effort and metabolic resources through the social regulation of emotion. For example, the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex is less active during the down-regulation of negative affect while the presence of others. Social proximity is hypothesized to confer emotion regulatory benefits through three mechanisms: 1) risk distribution, 2) load sharing, and 3) capitalization. Risk distribution lowers vigilance towards threat because risks seem lower as group size increases. Load sharing involves the knowledge that close others can provide help and resources if needed. Finally, capitalization refers to the intensification of positive emotions when they are shared with others.\n\nA prominent model proposed by Jamil Zaki and Craig Williams (2013) conceptualizes different classes of interpersonal emotion regulation along two orthogonal dimensions. The first, intrinsic \"vs\" extrinsic, refers to the target of regulatory efforts. Intrinsic regulation involves an attempt to change one's own emotions through social contact, while extrinsic regulation involves trying to change the emotions of another person or group of people. The second dimension, response-dependent vs. response-independent, refers to whether or not the regulatory efforts depend upon the behavior of other people. Processes that rely upon how others respond or behave are considered response-dependent, while strategies that do not depend upon others' behavior are classified as response-independent. This model yields four classes of interpersonal emotion regulation:\n\n\nThere are potentially hundreds of strategies that people can use to influence others' feelings. A series of studies reported by Niven and colleagues generated almost 400 unique strategies that could be differentiated primarily according to whether they are used to improve or to worsen others' feelings. Another key distinction is between strategies that engage a person in the specific situation that has caused the emotion (e.g., trying to get the person to see a situation in a different light) and those that divert attention away (e.g., joking with the person).\n\nResearch based on Niven and colleagues' classification has indicated that these distinct strategy types have different effects on the well-being of the people who use them and also on the people who they are used towards. They may even have different implications for the quality of the relationship between these two parties.\n\nA different way of distinguishing interpersonal emotion regulation strategies is according to the stage of the emotion that they focus on. Inspired by James Gross's process model of emotion, some researchers have suggested that there is a difference between strategies that try to change the underlying emotion someone is feeling and strategies that try to change the emotion that the person expresses outwardly.\n\nPatterns of interpersonal emotion dysregulation may contribute to the onset and maintenance of mental health disorders.\n\nAnxiety disorders are perpetuated by avoidance of feared stimuli. Avoidance behaviors can include the presence of \"safety people\", who reduce the anxious individual's distress while negatively reinforcing the avoidance. For example, an individual with panic disorder may ask her partner to drive her to work, which alleviates her fear of having a panic attack while driving. This pattern may lead to reliance upon others and contribute to continued avoidance (e.g. of driving a car alone). Another interpersonal strategy used in anxiety disorders is reassurance seeking. For example, someone with obsessive compulsive disorder may rely upon a roommate to assure them that the doors have been locked, or an individual with generalized anxiety disorder may ask a romantic partner for reassurances of love.\n\nIndividuals with depression experience maladaptive interpersonal interactions, which contribute to their depressive symptoms. These behaviors include greater expressed negativity (e.g. criticism, blaming, demanding, and disengagement) toward romantic partners, and negative feedback seeking. Excessive reassurance seeking is also a vulnerability factor for depression. However, Marroquin (2011) proposes adaptive interpersonal emotion regulation as a mechanism of the positive effects of social support. Social interaction that diverts attention away from self-referential negative thinking and promotes cognitive reappraisal may help to alleviate depression.\n\nAccording to the biosocial model, individuals with borderline personality disorder develop intense emotional expression in part because they have been reinforced throughout development. For instance, a teenager with heightened emotional sensitivity is not taken seriously by her family until she threatens a suicide attempt. If her family responds with attention to extreme emotional expressions, she will learn to continue to express emotions in this way. Venting is another interpersonal emotion regulation strategy that is associated with personality disorder symptoms.\n\nCertain types of psychotherapy target interpersonal factors to improve well-being. Dialectical behavioral therapy, originally developed for individuals with borderline personality disorder, teaches clients interpersonal effectiveness, which includes a variety of skills for communicating emotions in a clear and socially acceptable manner. Assertiveness training is a behavioral intervention that teaches verbal and non-verbal assertiveness skills to inhibit anxiety.\n\nSeveral questionnaires have been developed to measure people's self-reported use of interpersonal emotion regulation, including the Emotion Regulation of Others and Self (EROS), Interpersonal Emotion Regulation Questionnaire (IERQ), Interpersonal Regulation Questionnaire (IRQ), and the Difficulties in Interpersonal Regulation of Emotion (DIRE).\n\nThe Emotion Regulation of Others and Self (EROS) questionnaire is a freely available measure that assess strategies used to improve or worsen either one's own or another person's emotions, yielding a two-by-two framework: 1) intrinsic affect-improving, 2) intrinsic affect-worsening, 3) extrinsic affect-improving, and 4) extrinsic affect-worsening. The \"intrinsic\" subscale measures emotion self-regulation using 10 items. The \"extrinsic\" subscale measures deliberate attempts to improve or worsen others' emotions using 9 items. There is low item endorsement for the affect-worsening dimension, suggesting that people rarely make deliberate attempts to worsen their own or others' emotions. However, extrinsic affect-worsening is associated with health-related impairments, suggesting detrimental effects of engaging in these strategies likely due to negative social repercussions. Additionally, the affect-improving factor is unrelated to current levels of affect, which may be attributed to the scale's psychometric properties or to a discrepancy between current mood state and strategy use (e.g., reporting use of affect-improving strategies more often while in a negative mood state).\n\nThe Interpersonal Emotion Regulation Questionnaire (IERQ) is a 20-item measure designed to assess how individuals regulate their own emotions through the use of others. The questionnaire was developed through qualitative interviews with participants (e.g., \"When you are feeling down, in what ways do you look to other people to help you feel better?\"), whose responses were quantitatively tested using exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis to derive 4 factors containing 5 items each. The 4 factors include Enhancing Positive Affect (seeking social interaction to enhance happiness), Perspective Taking (recruiting others to point out that other people are in a worse situation), Soothing (seeking comfort and sympathy from others), and Social Modeling (observing others for examples of how to cope).\n\nThe Interpersonal Regulation Questionnaire (IRQ) is a 16-item measure of intrinsic interpersonal emotion regulation that assesses individuals' \"tendency\" to recruit social resources in response to emotional events, as well as their perceived \"efficacy\" of how effective interpersonal strategies are in improving their emotional experiences. Because it is a less common for individuals to deliberately worsen their mood, the measure focuses on increasing positive emotions and decreasing negative emotions. High interpersonal emotion regulation tendency and efficacy is related to greater emotional expressivity, empathy, social connectedness, and supportive relationships. Individuals who score high on efficacy are more likely to benefit from social support.\n\nThe Difficulties in Interpersonal Regulation of Emotion (DIRE) is a self-report measure of maladaptive interpersonal emotion regulation strategies that may relate to psychopathology. Respondents rate how likely they would be to use a variety of strategies in response to three vignettes about stressful hypothetical scenarios (task-oriented, romantic, social). The DIRS consists of four factors, including two intrapersonal (Accept, Avoid) and two interpersonal (Reassurance-seek, Vent) classes of strategies. Reassurance-seeking is related to overall emotion dysregulation, as well as depression and anxiety symptoms. Both reassurance-seeking and venting are associated with negative affect, interpersonal problems, stress, and borderline personality disorder symptoms. \n\n"}
{"id": "8805546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8805546", "title": "List of names in A Biographical Dictionary of Modern Rationalists", "text": "List of names in A Biographical Dictionary of Modern Rationalists\n\nJoseph McCabe published \"A Biographical Dictionary of Modern Rationalists\" in 1920 (London: Watts & Co.). Most (though not all) of those listed were also included in \"A Biographical Dictionary of Ancient, Medieval and Modern Freethinkers\" (1945)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1791389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1791389", "title": "List of peace prizes", "text": "List of peace prizes\n\nUnder the title of Peace Prize, the following prizes are awarded among others:\n\n"}
{"id": "3033151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3033151", "title": "Maltese units of measurement", "text": "Maltese units of measurement\n\nIn modern usage, metric is used almost exclusively in commercial transactions. These units are mostly historical, although they are still used in some limited contexts and in Maltese idioms and set phrases. Many of these terms are directly related to Arabic units and some to Sicilian units. The \"Weights and Measures Ordinance\" of 1921 established uniformity in the conversion of such weights and measures. All these measures were defined as simple multiples of the Imperial units then in use in Britain.\n\nLength units were typically used for measuring goods and building sizes. Distances were traditionally measured in terms of travel time, which explains the lack of large-scale units.\n\nIn 1921, these units were redefined with respect to the British Imperial standard. These values reflect this change.\n\nThese units were all (except for the cubic units) defined in 1921 relative to the British Imperial gallon, which was defined in the 1824 act. This is equal to 10 pounds of water at a specified temperature and air pressure. This (~4.546 090 31 litres) is slightly larger than the modern definition (exactly 4.546 09 litres).\n\nNone of the units from this group are mentioned in TY Maltese.\n\nNone of these units are mentioned in TY Maltese. Note that there are two conflicting values for the \"siegħ\" (1/10 and 1/6 \"tomna\", respectively).\n\nAll the Maltese mass units were redefined relative to the British Imperial ton in 1921. Before this, the units were presumably based on an Arabic standard. All equivalent measures listed in pounds below are exact values.\n\nnb. There are two distinct units which are named \"kwart\".\n\nThis system was used during the rule of the Knights of St. John in Malta. Subsequent currencies in use are the pre-decimal British Pound and the Maltese lira. Malta has now switched to using the Euro.\n\n"}
{"id": "1047584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1047584", "title": "Man bites dog (journalism)", "text": "Man bites dog (journalism)\n\nThe phrase man bites dog is a shortened version of an aphorism in journalism which describes how an unusual, infrequent event (such as a man biting a dog) is more likely to be reported as news than an ordinary, everyday occurrence with similar consequences, such as a dog biting a man. An event is usually considered more newsworthy if there is something unusual about it; a commonplace event is less likely to be seen as newsworthy, even if the consequences of both events have objectively similar outcomes. The result is that rarer events more often appear as news stories, while more common events appear less often, thus distorting the perceptions of news consumers of what constitutes normal rates of occurrence.\n\nThe phenomenon is also described in the journalistic saying, \"You never read about a plane that did not crash\".\n\nThe phrase was coined by Alfred Harmsworth, 1st Viscount Northcliffe (1865–1922), a British newspaper magnate, but is also attributed to \"New York Sun\" editor John B. Bogart (1848–1921): \"When a dog bites a man, that is not news, because it happens so often. But if a man bites a dog, that is news.\" The quote is also attributed to Charles Anderson Dana (1819–1897).\n\nSome consider it a principle of yellow journalism.\n\nIn 2000, the \"Santa Cruz Sentinel\" ran a story titled \"Man bites dog\" about a San Francisco man who bit his own dog.\n\nReuters ran a story, \"It's News! Man Bites Dog\", about a man biting a dog in December 2007.\n\nA 2008 story of a boy biting a dog in Brazil had news outlets quoting the phrase.\n\nIn 2010, NBC Connecticut ran a story about a man who bit a police dog, prefacing it with, \"It's often said, if a dog bites a man it's not news, but if a man bites a dog, you've got a story. Well, here is that story.\"\n\nOn May 14, 2012, the \"Medway Messenger\", a British local newspaper, ran a front page story headlined \"MAN BITES DOG\" about a man who survived a vicious attack from a Staffordshire bull terrier by biting the dog back.\n\nOn September 27, 2012, the \"Toronto Star\", a Canadian newspaper, ran the story headlined \"Nearly Naked Man Bites Dog\", about a man that is alleged to have bitten a dog in Pembroke, Ontario.\n\nOn December 2, 2012, \"Sydney Morning Herald\" reported about a man that bit the dog and its unfortunate consequence; 'Man bites Dog, goes to hospital' \n\nOn May 5, 2013, \"Nine News\", an Australian news outlet, ran a story headlined \"Man bites dog to save wife\" about a man who bit a Labrador on the nose, after it attacked his wife and bit off her nose.\n\nOn March 12, 2014, Rosbalt, a Russian news agency, reported that a man in Lipetsk had burnt a bed in his apartment, run around the city in his underwear, and, finally, \"bit a fighting breed dog\" following an hours-long online debate about the situation in Ukraine.\n\nIn April 2014, CNN reported a mom bit a pit bull attacking her daughter.\n\nOn June 14, 2014, the \"South Wales Argus\" ran a front page teaser headlined \"Man Bites Dog\" about a man who has been accused of assaulting his partner and her pet dog. The Online version of this story was later amended to \"Man bites dog and escapes jail\".\n\nOn September 1, 2014 the \"Coventry Telegraph\" and the \"Daily Mirror\" ran an article about a man who had bitten a dog after it attacked his pet.\n\nOn December 17, 2014 the \"Cambridge News\" ran an article with a headline starting: \"Man bites dog then dies\".\n\nOn November 4, 2015 the \"Washington Post\" ran an article with the title \"Man bites dog. No, really.\"\n\nOn April 10, 2018 the \"Daily Telegraph\" ran such an article about a man biting a dog to defend his own dog.\n\nOn May 4, 2018, the \"Salt Lake Tribune\" ran an article about a man biting a police dog while being taken into custody.\n\nIn Terry Pratchett's novel \"The Truth\", protagonist and newspaper editor William DeWorde uncovers a plot against the ruler of the city by interviewing the sole witness, a dog, via an interpreter. DeWorde's resulting story is headlined \"Dog Bites Man\", and he notes with some amusement that he was able to make the phrase news-worthy.\n\nThere have also been a number of \"dog shoots man\" news stories.\n\nAs an example of a related phrase, a story titled \"Deer Shoots Hunter\" appeared in a 1947 issue of the Pittsburgh Press, mentioning a hunter that was shot by his own gun due to a reflex kick by the deer he had killed. And in 2005, in Michigan, there was a case of \"cat shoots man\".\n"}
{"id": "1580458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1580458", "title": "Meta-rights", "text": "Meta-rights\n\nIn philosophy, meta-rights are the entitlements of individuals to their rights, including the possibility to waive, transfer or sell their rights. When we talk of the rights of individuals, we do not always distinguish between rights which can be waived or sold and rights which are non-negotiable. Yet that distinction and often the distinction is made implicitly. When we say a person has a right to her house, we usually mean that she also has the meta right to sell the right. On the other hand, when we say a person has the right to his body parts, we usually assume this comes without the accompanying meta right to sell these rights. Economic efficiency usually comes with having rights which come together with the meta right to sell the right. It is arguable that we should be much more explicit about when rights come together with meta rights and when without, and the moral basis that accompany these decisions.\n\n"}
{"id": "44936720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44936720", "title": "Mezzoramia", "text": "Mezzoramia\n\nMezzoramia is a mythical paradise in the African desert, from a story by Simon Berington. Gaudentio di Lucca, the main character of the tale, discovers the secret, narrow road that provides the only access to the oasis, and resides there for twenty-five years.\n\nIn 2006, a dark albedo feature (region) of Saturn's moon Titan was named Mezzoramia after the mythical location.\n\n"}
{"id": "21992766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21992766", "title": "Mike Campbell (Pvt) Ltd v Zimbabwe", "text": "Mike Campbell (Pvt) Ltd v Zimbabwe\n\nMike Campbell (Pvt) Ltd et al. v. Republic of Zimbabwe is a case decided by the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Tribunal (hereinafter \"the Tribunal\"). The Tribunal held that the Zimbabwean government violated the organisation's treaty by denying access to the courts and engaging in racial discrimination against white farmers whose lands had been confiscated under the land reform program in Zimbabwe.\n\nLand reform in Zimbabwe began after the signing of the Lancaster House Agreement in 1979 in an effort to more equitably distribute land between the historically disenfranchised blacks and the minority whites. Government-orchestrated land invasions began in February 2000. The Zimbabwean government formally announced a \"fast track\" resettlement program in July 2000, stating that it would acquire more than 3,000 farms for redistribution.\n\nDuring the early 1970s Campbell, a South African Army captain, had been involved in the Rhodesian Bush War that pitted Rhodesia's mostly white government—50 of the 66 parliamentary seats were reserved for whites—against black nationalist guerrillas. He moved to Mount Carmel farm in 1974. He added a neighbouring plot of land in 1980, following Zimbabwean independence. As well as farming, Campbell set up an extensive nature reserve on the property, replete with giraffes, impala and other indigenous animals. He also created the Biri River Safari Lodge, which became a popular tourist attraction.\n\nCampbell purchased Mount Carmel from himself after independence. (The full title was vested in 1999, when the Zimbabwean government declared no interest in the land.) In July 2001, amid large-scale land invasions by \"war veterans\", Campbell received a government notice to acquire Mount Carmel in the district of Chegutu, but the notice was declared invalid by the High Court. In July 2004, a new notice of intent to acquire Mount Carmel was published in the official Government Gazette, but no acquisition notice was actually issued. However, two months later, according to court filings, \"persons purported to occupy the farm on behalf of Zanu PF spokesman Nathan Shamuyarira, claiming the former minister had been allocated the farm.\" After three more preliminary notices to take the farm were published in 2004, Campbell applied to the High Court for a protection order.\n\nAmendment 17 was added to Zimbabwe's constitution on 14 September 2005 to vest ownership of certain categories of land on the Zimbabwean government and to eliminate the courts' jurisdiction to hear any challenge to the land acquisitions. Campbell initiated proceedings in court on 15 May 2006, challenging the validity of Amendment 17. In December 2006 the Gazetted Land (Consequential Provisions) Act passed into law, requiring all farmers whose land was compulsorily acquired by the government and who were not in possession of an official offer letter, permit, or lease, to cease to occupy, hold, or use that land within 45 days and to vacate their homes within 90 days. On 11 October 2007, before the Supreme Court of Zimbabwe had delivered its judgment in the case, Campbell filed an application with the SADC Tribunal challenging the acquisition by the Zimbabwean government. Subsequently, 77 other persons joined as parties in the proceedings against the government of Zimbabwe.\n\nMike Campbell, his wife Angela, and their son-in-law Ben Freeth were kidnapped, taken to an indoctrination camp and beaten by thugs on 29 June 2008. Campbell died on 6 April 2011; his family stated he died from complications of the 2008 beating.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Zimbabwe issued a decision in the case on 22 January 2008, dismissing Campbell's challenge. The Court held that: (1) race was not an issue in the case, because neither the relevant provisions of Section 16B of the Constitution nor the land acquisitions made reference to race or color; (2) the Government of Zimbabwe has an inherent right to compulsorily acquire property, and (3) the legislature has full power to change the Constitution. The Court also stated that an \"application to a court of law to challenge a lawful acquisition would in effect be an abuse of the right to protection of law.\"\n\nThe Tribunal was established by the SADC treaty. The SADC has been in existence since 1980, when it was formed as a loose alliance of nine majority-ruled States in Southern Africa known as the Southern African Development Coordination Conference (SADCC), with the main aim of co-ordinating development projects to lessen economic dependence on the then apartheid South Africa. The Tribunal ensures adherence to, and the proper interpretation of, the provisions of the Treaty and the subsidiary instruments made under it, and adjudicates upon disputes referred to it.\n\nThe Tribunal concluded that it had jurisdiction to hear the case because the dispute concerned \"human rights, democracy and the rule of law\", which are binding principles for members of the SADC.\n\n17 December 2007\nThe Tribunal granted an interim measure ordering the government of Zimbabwe to take no steps, directly or indirectly, to evict Campbell from the farm or interfere with his use of the land.\n\n28 November 2008\nThe Tribunal's decision on this date addressed four main issues: (1) Whether the Tribunal had jurisdiction to hear the case; (2) whether the plaintiffs had been denied access to domestic courts in violation of the SADC Treaty; (3) whether the Zimbabwean government had discriminated against the plaintiffs on the basis of race, and (4) whether the plaintiffs were entitled to compensation. (1) The Tribunal held that it had jurisdiction to hear the case, because Amendment 17 had eliminated the plaintiffs' access to the domestic courts, and the plaintiffs were therefore entitled to seek remedy before the Tribunal. (2) The Tribunal found that the plaintiffs had been deprived of their right to a fair hearing before being deprived of their rights. (3) On the racial discrimination issue, the Tribunal held that the actions of the Zimbabwean government constituted indirect or \"de facto\" discrimination because implementation of Amendment 17 affected white farmers only. (4) Finally, the Tribunal held that the plaintiffs were entitled to compensation for the expropriation of their lands.\n\n5 June 2009\nAfter Campbell and another applicant, Richard Thomas Etheredge, filed a new application to declare the Government of Zimbabwe in contempt, the Tribunal held that the Government of Zimbabwe had failed to comply with the Tribunal's previous decision. The Tribunal stated that it would report its finding to the Summit of the SADC.\n\nNon-enforcement of the Tribunal's judgment \nMike Campbell applied to register the Tribunal's judgment of 28 November 2008 in the High Court on 23 December 2008, but the application was not accepted with no reasons given. Over a hundred prosecutions of white farmers continue because they remain on their lands. The High Court issued orders in April 2009 to evict the invaders on Mount Carmel, but nothing was done by the police to enforce the orders. No mention of the Tribunal's decision was made at the SADC's summit in early September 2009.\n\nThreats, intimidation and fires \nAfter February 2009, Campbell and Freeth's families received threats from invaders. Campbell and his wife were eventually forced from their home and Mount Carmel was invaded. Ben Freeth's and Mike Campbell's homesteads were destroyed in fires on 30 August 2009 and 2 September 2009, respectively.\n\nZimbabwe denies the legitimacy of the Tribunal \nZimbabwe's Justice Minister Patrick Chinamasa wrote to the Tribunal to inform of Zimbabwe's withdrawal from the Tribunal in a letter written on 7 August 2009, arguing that it did not have jurisdiction over Zimbabwe because the Tribunal's Protocol has not yet been ratified by two-thirds of the total members of the SADC, as required by the organisation's treaty, and stated that Zimbabwe would no longer be bound by any of the Tribunal's past or future judgments.\n\nDecision by the High Court not to register the SADC Tribunal's judgement in Zimbabwe \nJudge Patel of the High Court issued a decision on 26 January 2010 in which he held that the SADC Tribunal was properly constituted and had jurisdiction to hear Campbell's case, but its decision could not be registered for purposes of enforcement. Judge Patel's decision relied on two main reasons. First, the Supreme Court of Zimbabwe had confirmed the constitutionality of the land reform program, and registering the SADC Tribunal's judgment in Zimbabwe would challenge the Supreme Court's decision and undermine its authority; this would be contrary to public policy. Second, if the Zimbabwean government complied with the SADC Tribunal's decision, it would contravene section 16B of the Constitution (introduced by Amendment 17 in 2005, see above); this could not be allowed because the Constitution is the supreme law of Zimbabwe.\n\nThe SADC Summit orders a review of the role, functions and terms of the SADC Tribunal \nOn 17 August 2010 the Summit of the SADC heads of state and government decided \"that a review of the role functions and terms [sic] of reference of the SADC Tribunal should be undertaken and concluded within 6 months.\" According to an opinion submitted by a group of legal and human rights organisations, the SADC Summit effectively suspended the Tribunal, as it failed to renew the tenure of five judges and failed to appoint new ones, leaving the Tribunal improperly constituted in violation of the Tribunal's Protocol; this decision may have been precipitated by Zimbabwe's challenge to the legality of the Tribunal after the Tribunal decided against Zimbabwe in cases concerning land disputes.\n\nIn a draft reportcommissioned by the SADC and dated 14 February 2011, WTI Advisors (an affiliate of the World Trade Institute) recommended, among other things, the following: SADC Member States should ensure that they give the force of law to SADC law by amending national law; Member States should consider amending the SADC Treaty to state that SADC law is supreme over national law, including constitutional law; the Tribunal should be given power to determine its own Rules of Procedure; the Tribunal's Protocol should be amended to provide that membership and rights of Member States may be suspended, with the Summit taking account of the possible consequences of suspension; the Tribunal should be able to order remedies (including fines) for non-compliance.\n\nLegal action against heads of State \nIn April 2011 Mike Campbell, his company Mike Campbell (Pvt) Ltd, and another farmer, Luke Tembani, applied to the courts for an order against the 'Summit of the Heads of State or Government of SADC' and the presidents of 15 member countries, the Council of Ministers of SADC, and the Republic of Zimbabwe, demanding that \"the [SADC] Tribunal continues to function in all respects as established by Article 16 of the Treaty\".\n\nCompensation battle in South Africa \nOn 6 June 2011, the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria, South Africa cleared the way for seized Zimbabwean government assets in Cape Town to be sold by auction to compensate 3 Zimbabwean farmers, including the late Mike Campbell. It is thought to be the first ruling in international legal history that a country's assets should be sold to provide compensation for human rights violations. The Zimbabwean government appealed the High Court's decision, but both the Supreme Court (in September 2012) and the Constitutional Court of South Africa (in June 2013) dismissed the appeal. \n\nSADC Tribunal suspended \nOn 20 May 2011, an Extraordinary Summit of Heads of State and Government of SADC, held in Namibia, decided not to reappoint or replace SADC Tribunal members, effectively suspending the tribunal.\n\nMike Campbell died on 6 April 2011, aged 78. His family stated his death was due to the consequences of having been tortured.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8091561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8091561", "title": "Molecular cellular cognition", "text": "Molecular cellular cognition\n\nMolecular cellular cognition (MCC) is a branch of neuroscience that involves the study of cognitive processes with approaches that integrate molecular, cellular and behavioral mechanisms. Key goals of MCC studies include the derivation of molecular and cellular explanations of cognitive processes, as well as finding mechanisms and treatments for cognitive disorders.\n\nAlthough closely connected with behavioral genetics, MCC emphasizes the integration of molecular and cellular explanations of behavior, instead of focusing on the connections between genes and behavior.\n\nUnlike cognitive neuroscience, which historically has focused on the connection between human brain systems and behavior, the field of MCC has used model organisms, such as mice, to study how molecular (i.e. receptor, kinase activation, phosphatase regulation), intra-cellular (i.e. dendritic processes), and inter-cellular processes (i.e. synaptic plasticity; network representations such as place fields) modulate cognitive function.\n\nMethods employed in MCC include (but are not limited to) transgenic organisms (i.e. mice), viral vectors, pharmacology, \"in vitro\" and \"in vivo\" electrophysiology, optogenetics, \"in vivo\" imaging, and behavioral analysis. Modeling is becoming an essential component of the field because of the complexity of the multilevel data generated.\n\nThe field of MCC has its roots in the pioneering pharmacological studies of the role of NMDA receptor in long-term potentiation and spatial learning and in studies that used knockout mice to look at the role of the alpha calcium calmodulin kinase II and FYN kinase in hippocampal long-term potentiation and spatial learning. The field has since expanded to include a large array of molecules including CREB.\n\nMCC became an organized field with the formation of the Molecular Cellular Cognition Society, an organization with no membership fees and meetings that emphasize the participation of junior scientists. Its first meeting took place in Orlando, Florida on November first, 2002. , the society had organized numerous meetings in North America, Europe, and Asia, and included more than 4000 members.\n\n"}
{"id": "16243262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16243262", "title": "Nakdi Report", "text": "Nakdi Report\n\nThe Nakdi Report, also known as the Nakdi Document (, ' ) or as the Nakdi guidelines is the document that provides ethical guidelines for use in Israel's broadcasting industry. Published as the Guidelines for Coverage of News and Current Affairs in 1995, the doctrine was first introduced in 1972 by the Israel Broadcasting Authority. It is named for its original author, Nakdimon Rogel.\n\nPatterned after the BBC’s Editorial Guidelines (previously, the Producer Guidelines), the Document currently consists of 161 clauses and contains a comprehensive code of ethics and practice for journalists working within the IBA. It is also applied to journalists in private broadcasting, though it is not legally binding. Since it was drawn up in 1972, the document has been revised four times - in 1979, 1985, 1995 and 1998 - and expanded to four times its original size.\n\nIt is one of the few national ethics codes to retain a version of the Fairness Doctrine. This is in addition to notions of impartiality drawn from similar European codes, which require the Authority itself to refrain from broadcasting editorials. Fairness, however, goes beyond mere impartiality: in order to \"ensure the public’s right to receive full and reliable information alongside balanced and\nvaried opinions\", journalists are required to \"solicit opposing opinion, fairly notify the public if comment was refused, and avoid becoming 'tools of response' for 'professional reaction teams.'\"\n\nThe requirements to ensure varied opinion - repeated elsewhere in the document as an enjoinder \"that the pool of commentators must be varied\", has caused several notable lawsuits to be filed against the IBA. Three in the 1980s were particularly notable: the first was against the landmark 1981 television miniseries \"The Pillar of Fire\". Brought by a group of Israelis of Sephardic descent who felt that the dramatised history of Zionism unfairly minimised their communities' contribution to the movement, the Supreme Court indicated that in this case fairness was \"irrelevant\"; broadcast could not be censored, but \"another aspect of the issue should be presented\". In 1982, a decision by the IBA to ban interviews with any supporters of the Palestinian Liberation Organisation in the West Bank and Gaza was struck down; this case was the making of the now-legendary civil rights lawyer Amnon Zichroni. And in 1984, Rabbi Meir Kahane submitted that a similar ban on broadcasting his political statements be struck down. In a much-studied ruling that recognised racist speech was also protected speech, the High Court of Justice attempted to curtail the \"Zichroni vs IBA\" somewhat: Kach was permitted a \"right of reply\" if its positions were misrepresented, but it could not demand that its platform be broadcast, and nor could it demand the right of reply to criticism.\n\nMore recently, the guidelines have faced a sustained barrage of criticism. After the 1996 revision appeared, a study by Yitzhak Roeh, a media studies academic at HUJI called it an \"anachronism\" and \"irrelevant\" Since then, right-wing groups have frequently used the Nakdi Document as a basis for documentation of what they see as media bias; the two most high-profile incidents have been litigation surrounding the broadcast of Avishai Raviv's \"swearing-in ceremony\" with Eyal at Baruch Goldstein's grave, and the campaign to get rid of Gabi Gazit, whom they saw as serially breaking \"the policies of public radio\".\n\nAlthough at least one study has concluded that rather than being responses to political stimuli, the various revisions of the Document have resulted in a \"crystallization and implementation of normative ethical guidelines for Israeli public broadcasting\", criticism that the Document contains at least some inherent bias continues to be leveled. Recently, concern that the language expected of the Israeli media was not sufficiently neutral included the complaint that the phrase \"East Jerusalem\" were prohibited by the guidelines.\n\nThere have also been concerns that the Document is not detailed enough; following Ariel Sharon's incapacitation, its ability to provide guidance balance between the private matter of his health and the public's right to know was found wanting. Similarly, the strictures against \"melodrama\" in factual broadcasting and against filming of funerals contrary to a family's wishes have been problematic: \"Sterile coverage of terrorist attacks and bereavement will not get across the dimension we need to get - the emotional dimension,\" according to a television executive quoted in Ha'aretz.\n"}
{"id": "39252169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39252169", "title": "Narcissistic neurosis", "text": "Narcissistic neurosis\n\nNarcissistic neurosis is a term introduced by Sigmund Freud to distinguish the class of neuroses characterised by their lack of object relations and their fixation upon the early stage of libidinal narcissism. The term is less current in contemporary psychoanalysis, but still a focus for analytic controversy.\n\nFreud considered such neurosis as impervious to psychoanalytic treatment, as opposed to the transference neurosis where an emotional connection to the analyst was by contrast possible.\n\nFreud originally applied the term \"narcissistic neurosis\" to a range of disorders, including perversion, depression, and psychosis. In the 1920s, however, he came to single out \"illnesses which are based on a conflict between the ego and the super-ego... we would set aside the name of 'narcissistic psycho-neuroses' for disorders of that kind\"—melancholia being the outstanding example.\n\nAbout the same time, in the wake of the work of Karl Abraham, he began to modify to a degree his view on the inaccessibility of narcissistic neurosis to analytic treatment. However his late lectures from the thirties confirmed his opinion of the unsuitability of narcissistic and psychotic conditions for treatment \"to a greater or less extent\"; as did his posthumous 'Outline of Psychoanalysis'.\n\nFrom the twenties onwards, Freud's views of the inaccessibility of the narcissistic neuroses to analytic influence had been challenged, first by Melanie Klein, and then by object relations theorists more broadly.\n\nWhile classical analysts like Robert Waelder would maintain Freud's delimiting standpoint into the sixties, eventually even within ego psychology challenges to the 'off-limits' view of what were increasingly seen as borderline disorders emerged.\n\nRelational psychoanalysis, like Heinz Kohut, would also take a more positive approach to narcissistic neurosis, emphasising the need for a partial or initial participation in the narcissistic illusions.\n\nIn retrospect, Freud's caution may be seen as a result of his unwillingeness to work with the negative transference, unlike the post-Kleinians.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26502557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26502557", "title": "Negative room pressure", "text": "Negative room pressure\n\nNegative room pressure is an isolation technique used in hospitals and medical centers to prevent cross-contaminations from room to room. It includes a ventilation system that generates negative pressure to allow air to flow into the isolation room but not escape from the room, as air will naturally flow from areas with higher pressure to areas with lower pressure, thereby preventing contaminated air from escaping the room. This technique is used to isolate patients with airborne contagious diseases such as tuberculosis, measles, or chickenpox.\n\nNegative pressure is generated and maintained by a ventilation system that removes more exhaust air from the room than air is allowed into the room. Air is allowed into the room through a gap under the door (typically about one half-inch high). Except for this gap, the room should be as airtight as possible, allowing no air in through cracks and gaps, such as those around windows, light fixtures and electrical outlets. Leakage from these sources can compromise or eliminate room negative pressure.\n\nA smoke test can help determine whether a room is under negative pressure. A tube containing smoke is held near the bottom of the negative pressure room door, about 2 inches in front of the door. The smoke tube is held parallel to the door, and a small amount of smoke is then generated by gently squeezing the bulb. Care is taken to release the smoke from the tube slowly to ensure the velocity of the smoke from the tube does not overpower the air velocity. If the room is at negative pressure, the smoke will travel under the door and into the room. If the room is not a negative pressure, the smoke will be blown outward or will stay stationary.\n\n"}
{"id": "38935439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38935439", "title": "Occupy Central with Love and Peace", "text": "Occupy Central with Love and Peace\n\nOccupy Central with Love and Peace (OCLP; 讓愛與和平佔領中環 or 和平佔中) was a single-purpose Hong Kong civil disobedience campaign convened by Reverend Chu Yiu-ming, Dr Benny Tai Yiu-ting, and Chan Kin-man on 27 March 2013. Its aim was to pressure the PRC Government into reforming the systems for election of the Hong Kong Chief Executive and Legislative Council so as to satisfy \"international standards in relation to universal suffrage\" as promised in the 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration and Article 45 of the 1997 Hong Kong Basic Law. Its manifesto called for occupation of the region's central business district if such reforms were not made. Upstaged by the Hong Kong Federation of Students (HKFS) and Scholarism in September 2014, its leaders joined in the Occupy Central protests.\n\nOCLP had originally planned to launch its protest campaign on 1 October 2014, the National Day of the People's Republic of China. OCLP stated that the ongoing protest was \"the Umbrella Movement, not 'Occupy Central'\" and referred to themselves as supporters rather than organisers. OCLP was disbanded by the founders when they surrendered to the police in December 2014.\n\nThe implementation of universal suffrage having been established as a matter of Hong Kong's constitutional law in 1997, pressure began steadily building from democrats to see its implementation. As the years went by, the Hong Kong government and Beijing were seen to be dragging their feet and failing to comply with Hong Kong Basic Law Article 45, which sets out the requirements for election of the Chief Executive:\n\nIn December 2007, the National People's Congress Law Committee officially ruled on the issue of universal suffrage in Hong Kong:\n\nThe \"Asia Times\" wrote in 2008 that both proposals for the Legislative Council (LegCo) and for the chief executive were \"hedged in with so many ifs and buts that there is no guarantee of Hong Kong getting anything at all... \"\n\nAfter another six years of government inaction, on 16 January 2013, Benny Tai, then an associate professor of law at the University of Hong Kong, published an article in the \"Hong Kong Economic Journal\" in which he proposed an act of civil disobedience be carried out in Central, the business and financial centre of Hong Kong if the government failed to announce reforms introducing genuine universal suffrage. He set no specific timetable for such action.<ref name=\"16/1/13\"></ref>\n\nReflecting increased polarisation, disaffection and frustration with government inaction and Beijing intransigence, on 21 March 2013, all 27 democratically inclined lawmakers of the Legislative Council joined in establishing the Alliance for True Democracy, adopting a more determined and confrontational stance than its recently failed and disbanded compromise-leaning predecessor, the Alliance for Universal Suffrage.\n\nOn 24 March 2013, Qiao Xiaoyang, then chairman of the Law Committee under the National People's Congress Standing Committee (NPCSC) startled Hongkongers by announcing that Chief Executive candidates must be persons who love the country and love Hong Kong, and who do not insist on confronting the central government. The statement was taken as setting out new, vague pre-conditions for candidacy as a means of screening out candidates not sympathetic to Beijing's goals in Hong Kong, denying the promise of genuine democracy. OCLP was convened three days later.\n\nOn 16 January 2013, an article by Benny Tai Yiu-ting was published in the \"Hong Kong Economic Journal\", entitled 公民抗命的最大殺傷力武器 (\"Civil Disobedience's Deadliest Weapon\"). Tai postulated a seven-step progression: 10,000 participants signing a declaration (taking a vow and pledge of willingness to occupy the streets), live TV broadcast of discussions, electronic voting on methods for universal suffrage, a referendum on the preferred formula, resignation of Super-Seat Legislative Council member (then former Democratic Party Chairman Albert Ho Chun-yan) to be filled in a by-election to be seen as a referendum on the plan, civil disobedience, and, finally, Occupy Central in July 2014. Tai repeated his plan at a forum held on 24 February 2013, emphasising the importance of the non-violence pledge.<ref name=\"25/2/13\"></ref>\n\nIn an interview together with Ho on 6 March 2013, Tai spoke at length about his referendum and protest strategies to bring about universal suffrage in Hong Kong and stated: \"This is a people's movement; frankly speaking, the central government will have to accept [the referendum result] or reject it; if they reject it, we will block the streets.\"\n\nOCLP was launched at a press conference hosted by its three founders, Reverend Chu Yiu-ming, Dr Benny Tai Yiu-ting, and Dr Chan Kin-man, on 27 March 2013 at which they presented its manifesto.\n\nOCLP's manifesto stated that it would campaign for universal suffrage through dialogue, deliberation, civil referendum and civil disobedience (Occupy Central); it also demanded that any government proposal should satisfy international standards in relation to universal suffrage, i.e. equal number of votes, equal weight for each vote and no unreasonable restrictions on the right to stand for election, and that the final proposal for electoral reform be decided by means of a genuine democratic process. The founders emphasised their objective of non-violent civil disobedience but, as their campaign had no leaders nor membership, what acts members of the public adopted was a matter for them to decide as individuals.\n\nOn 5 February 2014, the Democratic Party staged a public oath-taking, at Statue Square , with members swearing to join in Occupy Central irrespective of the risk of arrest and imprisonment. Members of People Power, disparaging of the Democratic Party's failure to demand direct civil nomination of Chief Executive candidates in its platform, disrupted the ceremony.\n\nDeliberation days were organised by OCLP on 9 June 2013, 9 March 2014, and 6 May 2014, at which attendees were invited to exchange views on strategies to be adopted to achieve democratic reform.\n\nOn the third deliberation day, the Occupy Central participants voted on electoral reform proposals put forward by various pro-democracy groups, with the objective of determining which should be put to a plebiscite. Five proposals were put to the attendees and the three most popular selected. The proposal by student groups Scholarism and Hong Kong Federation of Students which allowed for public nomination, received 1,124 votes – 45 percent of the vote. People Power's proposal came in second with 685 votes, while the three-track proposal by the Alliance for True Democracy consisting of 27 pan-democracy lawmakers got 445 votes. The civil recommendation method proposed by 18 academics got 74 votes and Hong Kong 2020's proposal came in last with 43 votes. A total of 2,508 votes were cast in the poll.\n\nAll three selected proposals included the concept of civil nomination, which the mainland authorities had already flatly rejected as not compliant with the Basic Law. The three chosen proposals were thus considered to be the more radical, leaving moderate pan-democrats in the cold, laying the ground for friction and division among democrats. The League of Social Democrats and People Power lawmakers, notwithstanding their common membership in the Alliance for True Democracy, had urged their supporters to vote against the Alliance. Snubbed Civic Party lawmaker Ronny Tong Ka-wah, who had seen his moderate plan soundly marginalised in the poll believed \"the Occupy Central movement has been hijacked by radicals\". He believed that the poll results would make it harder to find a reform package agreeable to Beijing. He thought Occupy Central's plan to block streets in Central was likely to materialise.\n\nOCLP commissioned the University of Hong Kong Public Opinion Programme (HKUPOP) to run a poll on three proposals – all of which involved allowing citizens to directly nominate candidates – for presentation to the Beijing government. It ran from 20 to 29 June 2014. A total of 792,808 people, equivalent to over one fifth of the registered electorate, took part in the poll by either voting online or going to designated polling stations.\n\nThe proposal tabled by the Alliance for True Democracy, a group comprising 26 of the 27 pan-democratic lawmakers, won the unofficial referendum by securing 331,427 votes, or 42.1 per cent of the 787,767 valid ballots. A joint blueprint put forward by Scholarism and the Hong Kong Federation of Students came second with 302,567 votes (38.4 per cent), followed by the People Power proposal, which garnered 81,588 votes (10.4 per cent). All three called for the public to be allowed to nominate candidates for the 2017 Chief Executive election, an idea repeatedly dismissed by Beijing as inconsistent with the Basic Law. The Alliance's provided for nomination by the election committee and by political parties, as well. The plan was not specific on method of formation of the nominating committee, only stating that it should be \"as democratic as it can be\". The two other proposals were for nomination by the public and nominating committee only. 691,972 voters (87.8 per cent) agreed that the Legislative Council should veto any reform proposal put forward by the government if it failed to meet international standards, compared with 7.5 per cent who disagreed.\n\nThe unofficial referendum infuriated Beijing. Mainland officials and newspapers called it \"illegal\" while many condemned Occupy Central, claiming it was operating at the behest of foreign \"anti-China forces\" and would damage Hong Kong's standing as a financial capital. Zhang Junsheng, a former deputy director of Xinhua News Agency in Hong Kong, denounced the poll as \"meaningless\". The state-run \"Global Times\" mocked the referendum as an \"illegal farce\" and a \"joke\". The region's chief executive, Leung Chun-Ying, offered this rebuke: \"Nobody should place Hong Kong people in confrontation with mainland Chinese citizens.\" Mainland censors meanwhile scrubbed social media sites clean of references to Occupy Central. The poll also prompted a flurry of vitriolic editorials, preparatory police exercises and sophisticated cyber-attacks where strategies evolved over time. According to CloudFlare, a firm that helped defend against a \"unique and sophisticated\" attack, CloudFlare the volume of traffic was an unprecedented 500Gbit/s and involved at least five botnets. OCLP's servers were bombarded with in excess of 250 million DNS requests per second, equivalent to the average volume of legitimate DNS requests for the entire Internet.\n\nBefore the referendum, the State Council issued a white paper claiming \"comprehensive jurisdiction\" over the territory. \"The high degree of autonomy of the HKSAR [Hong Kong Special Administrative Region] is not full autonomy, nor a decentralised power,\" it said. \"It is the power to run local affairs as authorised by the central leadership.\" Michael DeGolyer, director of the transition project at Hong Kong Baptist University, said: \"It's very clear from surveys that the vast majority of the people voting in this referendum are doing it as a reaction to this white paper – particularly because they see it as threatening the rule of law ... That's not negotiating on the one country two systems principle, that's demolishing it.\"\n\nThe OCLP has pointed out the participants in Occupy Central could be guilty of \"obstructing, inconveniencing or endangering a person or vehicle in a public place\" under the Summary Offenses Ordinance. However, under the Public Order Ordinance, Occupy Central was considered as unlawful assembly, i.e., \"when three or more people assemble... to cause any person reasonably to fear that the persons so assembled will commit a breach of the peace or will by such conduct provoke other persons to commit a breach of the peace, they are an unlawful assembly.\" The Hong Kong Secretary for Security Lai Tung-kwok stated that the government will \"take robust action to uphold the rule of law and maintain safety and order.\"\n\nOCLP also published a \"manual of disobedience\" to inform protesters what to do in the event of being detained.\n\nOn 21 March 2013, in an apparent response to reports of Tai's statements early that month and the formation that day of the Alliance for True Democracy, Commissioner of Police Andy Tsang Wai-hung said that any attempt to block major thoroughfares in Central would not be tolerated and warned people to think twice about joining the Occupy Central protest.\n\nIn June 2014, with pressure building in view of the original plan for July 2014 occupy action, Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying warned that the Occupy Central movement was bound to be neither peaceful nor legal and that actions will be taken to maintain law and order and Secretary for Security Lai Tung-kwok warned that radical elements of Occupy Central may cause serious disturbances like the violent incident at the Legislative Council during the meeting for funding the northeast New Territories new town. Lai reminded the participants to consider their own personal safety and legal liability.\n\nOn 24 March 2013, Wang Guangya, director of the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office, when asked if he believed the Occupy Central plan would be beneficial to the city, said \"I think Hong Kong compatriots don't want to see Hong Kong being messed up. Hong Kong needs development.\"<ref name=\"25/3/13\"></ref> At the same time, Qiao Xiaoyang, chairman of the National People's Congress Law Committee, was quoted as accusing the \"opposition camp\" of \"fuelling\" the Occupy Central plan. Qiao said the plan was only \"partly truthful\", \"complex\" and a \"risk-everything\" proposition.\n\nIn October 2013 the Communist Party-controlled \"Global Times\" objected to Occupy organizers meeting with Democratic Progressive Party figures such as Shih Ming-teh in Taiwan, saying that the DPP, the main opposition party to Taiwan's governing KMT, was \"pro-independence.\" In a piece titled \"HK opposition at risk of becoming enemy of the State,\" Occupy organizers were warned that \"collaborating with the pro-independence forces in Taiwan will put Hong Kong's future at the risk of violence,\" and advised that \"if they collaborated... massive chaos might be created, which will compel the central government to impose tough measures to maintain Hong Kong's stability.\" A few days later the paper said that OCLP was the \"extreme opposition\" and that Occupy Central was a \"potentially violent concept\". It asked rhetorically, \"Why are Benny Tai Yiu-ting, who initiated the Occupy Central campaign and his supporters so bold as to challenge the central government with a bloody proposal over the issue of chief executive election procedures?\", answering that the \"ulterior motive\" lay in \"interference from foreign forces\".\n\nThe \"Global Times\" continued its critical commentary the day after OCLP's announcement of the commencement of Occupy Central, describing the occupation as an \"illicit campaign [which would] jeopardise the global image of Hong Kong [and] erode the authority of the rule of law\". The demonstrators were described as \"radical opposition forces\", a small minority of extremists incapable of mobilising the \"entire populace\" to revolt.\n\nThe Occupy Central campaign was censored from mainland China news media and replaced by cheerful reports of government supporters gathering near the Tamar government headquarters to endorse the central government's plan. Users of the mainland-controlled messaging application WeChat observed that Occupy Central content sent by them was filtered out of their messages as viewed by their addressees. Social media such as Weibo came under never-before-seen levels of censorship. Usually accessible Instagram was blocked entirely.\n\nIn February 2013, Civic Party lawmaker Kwok Ka-ki said he saw the ideas as \"the last resort\" to pressure Beijing and the SAR administration to introduce universal suffrage. \"If Beijing breaks its promise of universal suffrage,\" he added, \"we will have no option but to launch such a civil disobedience movement.\"\n\nAlbert Ho Chun-yan of the Democratic Party undertook to resign his legislator post to enforce a de facto referendum on universal suffrage just as the pan-democrats had done by triggering the by-election in 2010.\n\nNot all democrats' reactions were supportive. Wong Yeung-tat, of Civic Passion, for example, was strongly opposed to the movement.\n\nCheung Kwok-kwan, vice-chairman of the pro-Beijing Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong, questioned whether Hong Kong could \"afford the negative impact of people staging a rally to occupy and even paralyze Central for a universal suffrage model\". He noted that it was \"a mainstream idea\" in the SAR not to resort to radical means to fight for democracy. Rita Fan Hsu Lai-tai, a National People's Congress Standing Committee member, feared the occupation would adversely affect Hong Kong's image.<ref name=\"27/3/13\"></ref> National People's Congress Deputy and Executive Councilor Fanny Law Fan Chiu-fan urged the opposition camp to show respect for each other through a rational and pragmatic debate over the issue. She added that there was no need to resort to \"extreme action\" and claimed that it was not too late to begin consultations in 2014.\n\nIn mid-July 2014, after the civic referendum, the APD, under its spokesman Robert Chow, initiated a petition against the occupation, with signatures to be gathered from 18 July to 17 August. There were criticisms that no identity checks were carried out and that there were no steps to prevent repeat signings. According to the \"Wall Street Journal\" and \"South China Morning Post\", employees of corporations such as the major utility Towngas faced pressure to sign petition forms that were being circulated by their department heads. The APD claimed in excess of a million signatures were obtained. The organisers said they obtained signatures from many supporters including children, secondary school and university students, the elderly, office staff, celebrities and maids. Official endorsements were received from Chief Executive CY Leung and other top Hong Kong officials. The APD organised a \"march for peace\" on 17 August intended to undermine the Occupy movement. It was attended by tens of thousands of marchers including those bused in from mainland China by pro-establishment organisations including the Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions. There were widespread claims that organisations had paid people to attend the rally or had given other inducements. and that busing had swelled numbers by some 20,000. An editorial in \"The Standard\" noted \"it's obvious that Beijing spared no effort in maximizing the turnout... Beijing has demonstrated its ability to swiftly mobilize the masses over a relatively short period\".\n\nA meeting held in October 2013 between members of the Occupy Central movement and Taiwanese independence activists was met with condemnation by eight major local business groups. A statement to that effect was signed by the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, the Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, the Federation of Hong Kong Industries, the Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong and the Real Estate Developers Association of Hong Kong, among others.\n\nIn June 2014, Executives and brokers including tycoons Li Ka-shing and Peter Woo, and also the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce and the Hong Kong Bahrain Business Association, the Canadian, Indian and Italian chambers of commerce in Hong Kong together published an advertisement on newspapers that said the demonstrations may \"cripple commerce in the city's central business district\". The statement was directed at the \"organisers of Occupy Central\".\n\nIn late June 2014, Hong Kong's four biggest accounting firms issued a statement condemning the Occupy Central movement arguing that the blockade could have an \"adverse and far-reaching impact\" on the local legal system, social order and economic development. Employees of the firms who called themselves a \"group of Big Four employees who love Hong Kong\" took out an advertisement saying their employers' statement did not represent their stance.\n\nCardinal Joseph Zen, the Roman Catholic leader in Hong Kong, gave his conditional support to the campaign, stating that it must have well-defined goals and deadlines. The incumbent bishop Cardinal John Tong Hon expressed that he did not encourage followers to join the movement, suggesting that both parties should debate universal suffrage through dialogue.\n\nReverend Ng Chung-man of the Protestant Evangelical Free Church of China publicly denounced the Occupy Central plan in his church's newsletter. Ng wrote that while \"some Christians are advocating...occupying Central to force the governments to give in to their demands...civil disobedience is acceptable biblically only...when people's rights to religion and to live are under threat\". He exhorted believers to pray for those in authority, in an act of \"active subordination\" to \"relatively just governments\".\n\nOn 26 September 2014, after the class boycott campaign, students led by members of the Hong Kong Federation of Students (HKFS) and Scholarism occupied Civic Square, triggering a crowd to protest in support outside the Central Government Offices in Admiralty. On 28 September 2014, at 1.40am, Benny Tai announced the official start of the Occupy Central with Love and Peace civil disobedience campaign on the stage of the student protests. He proposed that the areas around the government headquarters be the occupation site in place of Central proper.\n\nOn Sunday night, 28 September 2014, the scenes in Central and Admiralty became more dramatic, as the police employed tear gas, pepper spray, and batons in their attempts to disperse the protesters. The use of tear gas was a significant move in Hong Kong, as it had not been used in the SAR since 2005 and, on that occasion, in the highly exceptional situation of quelling violent Korean farmers bent on disrupting a WTO conference. The excessive use of force by Hong Kong Police in dispersing Hongkongers antagonised and frustrated the general public and did not deter the protesters; rather, it gave impetus to thousands more to begin occupation of other major thoroughfares of Hong Kong, namely, at Mong Kok and Causeway Bay. On Monday, the government withdrew the riot police, leaving the three regions occupied by protesters, and there were massive traffic disruptions as all traffic had to be diverted.\n\nThe scale and scope of the three main occupations was unprecedented, involving many pressure groups as well as many citizens not associated with any group at all. What had been formulated by the OCLP organisers was now much bigger than OCLP and completely beyond their or any single group's control. Hence, the role of OCLP's volunteers was to provided support, for example, through its legal support team, for what had become a major, yet amorphous, movement.\n\nAs the occupation ended its first month, Chan Kin-man and Benny Tai resumed their teaching duties at their respective universities and OCLP handed over the command of its medic, marshal and supplies teams to the student groups.\n\nOn 3 December 2014, the Occupy Central trio, along with 62 others including Democratic Party lawmaker Wu Chi-wai and Cardinal Joseph Zen, then Bishop Emeritus of Hong Kong, turned themselves in to the police, admitting taking part in an unauthorised assembly. The police declined to arrest them and no charges were laid at the time. According to the trio, they did so in order to bear legal responsibility and uphold the rule of law, as well as to affirm their principles of love and peace. OCLP was disbanded by the founders upon surrendering to the police. They also urged occupiers to leave for their own safety, citing their fear that the government use the police to stamp its authority on them. The OCLP leaders planned to pursue their cause through community work and education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3241091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3241091", "title": "Option symbol", "text": "Option symbol\n\nAn option symbol is a code by which options are identified on an options exchange or a futures exchange.\n\nBefore 2010 the ticker (trading) symbols for US options typically looked like this: \"IBMAF\".\nThis consisted of a \"root symbol\" ('IBM') + \"month code\" ('A') + \"strike price\" code ('F'). The root symbol is the symbol of the stock on the stock exchange. After this comes the month code, A-L mean January–December calls, M-X mean January–December puts. The strike price code is a letter corresponding with a certain strike price (which letter corresponds with which strike price depends on the stock).\n\nOn February 12, 2010 the five-character ticker format stopped being used in the US and Canada.\n\nThe new standard is now fully in place, as in the first few months after February 12 the LEAP roots and additional roots needed to handle large numbers of options for a given issuer were consolidated into a single root ticker for a given underlying symbol. Options Clearing Corporation's (OCC) Options Symbology Initiative (OSI) mandated an industry-wide change to a new option symbol structure, resulting in option symbols 21 characters in length. March 2010 - May 2010 was the symbol consolidation period in which all outgoing option roots will be replaced with the underlying stock symbol.\n\nOn March 18, 2013, CBOE Mini Options became available for trading on a select group of securities (AMZN, AAPL, GOOG, GLD, and SPY). These options represent a deliverable of 10 shares of an underlying security, whereas standard equity options represent a deliverable of 100 shares. CBOE appended a \"7\" to the end of the security symbol to represent the mini option contracts.\n\nThe OCC option symbol consists of four parts:\n\nExamples:\nThis symbol represents a put on SPX, expiring on 11/22/2014, with a strike price of $19.50.\nThis symbol represents a call on LAMR, expiring on 1/17/2015, with a strike price of $52.50.\n\nMini-options contracts trade under a different trading symbol than standard-sized options contracts. Mini-options carry the number \"7\" at the end of the security symbol. For example, the Apple mini-options symbol is AAPL7.\n\nExamples:\nThis symbol represents a mini call option (10 shares) on AAPL, with a strike price of $470, expiring on Nov 1, 2013\nThis symbol represents the standard call option (100 shares), with the same strike and expiration date.\n\n"}
{"id": "1571987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1571987", "title": "Peace Testimony", "text": "Peace Testimony\n\nPeace testimony, or testimony against war, is a shorthand description of the action generally taken by members of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) for peace and against participation in war. Like other Quaker testimonies, it is not a \"belief\", but a description of committed actions, in this case to promote peace, and refrain from and actively oppose participation in war. Quakers' original refusal to bear arms has been broadened to embrace protests and demonstrations in opposition to government policies of war and confrontations with others who bear arms, whatever the reason, in the support of peace and active nonviolence. Because of this core testimony, the Religious Society of Friends is considered one of the traditional peace churches.\n\nFriends' peace testimony is largely derived from beliefs arising from the teachings of Jesus to love one's enemies and Friends' belief in the inner light. Quakers believe that nonviolent confrontation of evil and peaceful reconciliation are always superior to violent measures. Peace testimony does not mean that Quakers engage only in passive resignation; in fact, they often practice passionate activism.\n\nThe Peace Testimony is probably the best known testimony of Friends. The belief that violence is wrong has persisted to this day, and many conscientious objectors, advocates of non-violence and anti-war activists are Friends. Because of their peace testimony, Friends are considered as one of the historic peace churches. In 1947 Friends as a worldwide religious group were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, which was accepted by the American Friends Service Committee and the then London Yearly Meeting's Friends Service Committee, now called Britain Yearly Meeting Peace & Social Witness on behalf of all Friends. The Peace Testimony has not always been well received in the world; on many occasions Friends have been imprisoned for refusing to serve in military activities.\n\nSome Friends today regard the Peace Testimony in even a broader sense, refusing to pay the portion of the income tax that goes to fund the military. Yearly Meetings in the United States, Britain and other parts of the world endorse and support these Friends' actions. The Quaker Council for European Affairs campaigns in the European Parliament for the right of conscientious objectors in Europe not to be made to pay for the military. Some do pay the money into peace charities and still get goods seized by bailiffs or money taken from their bank accounts.\n\nIn America, others pay into an escrow account in the name of the Internal Revenue Service, which the IRS can only access if they give an assurance that the money will only be used for peaceful purposes. Some Yearly meetings in the US run escrow accounts for conscientious objectors, both within and outside the Society.\n\nMany Friends engage in various non-governmental organizations such as Christian Peacemaker Teams serving in some of the most violent areas of the world. Quaker author Howard Brinton, for example, served in the American Friends Service Committee during World War I.\n\nGeorge Fox, perhaps the most influential early Quaker, made a declaration in 1651 that many see as the first declaration of Friends' beliefs on peace:\nFollowing the 1660 Restoration of King Charles II and a clamp-down on religious radical groups such as the Fifth Monarchists, \n\nA number of letters and statements were written this year, as much to remove any suspicion that Friends might have been involved in violent political activity as a desire to make their position clear. Margaret Fell wrote a letter to King Charles II that was co-signed \"in unity\" by a number of prominent Friends, including Fox:\n\nThe most well-known statement of this belief was stated later that year in a declaration to King Charles II of England in 1660 by George Fox and 11 others. This excerpt is commonly cited:\n\nSome Quakers initially opposed this statement because it did not deny use of the sword to the magistrate or ruler of the state. It also contained no prohibition against paying taxes for purposes of war, something that would trouble Friends to the present.\n\nQuakers have engaged in peace testimony by protesting against wars, refusing to serve in armed forces if drafted, seeking conscientious objector status when available, and even to participating in acts of civil disobedience. Not all Quakers embrace this testimony as an absolute; for example, there were Friends that fought in World War I and World War II. Some others were firm . During extreme circumstances it has been difficult for some Quakers to engage in and uphold this testimony, yet Friends have almost universally been committed to the ideal of peace, even those who have felt the need to compromise on their testimony. Apart from the specific question of war, other ways in which Friends have testified to peace have included vegetarianism and a commitment to restorative justice.\n\nThe Religious Society of Friends was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1947. The Nobel Prize was awarded to Friends for Friends' work to relieve suffering and feed many millions of starving people during and after both world wars. The Nobel prize was accepted by the American Friends Service Committee, along with the UK's Friends Service Council on behalf of all Quakers.\n\nThe first paragraph of the Presentation Speech reads:\n\"The Nobel Committee of the Norwegian Parliament has awarded this year's Peace Prize to the Quakers, represented by their two great relief organizations, the Friends Service Council in London and the American Friends Service Committee in Philadelphia.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24236672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24236672", "title": "Pogopalooza", "text": "Pogopalooza\n\nPogopalooza: The Xpogo World Championship Series is a multi-city international touring championship that brings together the world's top Xpogo athletes for multiple days of competition, exhibition, and world record setting. Along with the competition, Pogopalooza also features the largest exposition of pogo stick companies, a Free Jump/Clinic area for people of all ages to try out an array of pogo sticks – classic to extreme, along with sponsorship activations and experiences associated with the event. The organizers of Pogopalooza refer to the event as \"the largest pogo stick event on the planet.\"\nStarted in 2004 in a parking lot in Lincoln, Nebraska, Pogopalooza enters its 11th year for 2014 and has grown to be the largest and most widely attended property associated with the sport of Xpogo.\n\nIn 2014, Pogopalooza competitions occurred in Montpellier, France; Pittsburgh, USA; and Helsingborg, Sweden.\nExtreme Pogo or Xpogo is an action sport which involves riding and performing tricks on extreme pogo sticks, defined as such by their durability and potential for height. Today's Xpogo sticks have the potential for over 10 ft. of height (measured from the ground to the bottom of the tip). Extreme pogo is a young extreme sport and is currently emerging into popular culture as evidenced by the growing number of Xpogo athletes around the globe, growing sales from extreme pogo companies, the popularity of Xpogo athlete exhibition teams, positive feedback and continued interest in Xpogo content, and the expanding scope of the annual Pogopalooza: The Xpogo World Championship Series.\n\nThe first Pogopalooza was held in 2004 in a parking lot in Nebraska, organized by Dan Brown, one of the original Xpogo founders. While the event was small in scope and only drew friends and family, it set the precedent to hold an annual event bringing together extreme pogo athletes from around the country, and eventually the world. Each year since Pogopalooza 1, the event grew in scope and design. Gaining more structure, media attention, athlete attendance, Pogopalooza progressed steadily for 5 years. Pogopalooza 6 in 2009, which was held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania saw the biggest turnout of athletes yet, over 50+ from across the United States, Canada, and England and involved the whole of the City through four days of events and competition. Post-Pogopalooza 6 national media began to take note of extreme pogo in the biggest manner to date. The Wall Street Journal ran a front-page article on the sport and numerous other countrywide and even international publications began covering athletes, events, and the growth of Xpogo in general. Pogopalooza 7, 8, and 9 represented steady progress as well, leading up to Pogopalooza 10, which stood as another breakout year. Widely attended and heavily covered, Pogopalooza 10 occurred in New York City across July 26-28th, 2013. After the event, organizers announced that the Pogopalooza competition would be expanded into a multi-city international touring format for 2014. Today, the event is referred to as \"Pogopalooza: The Xpogo World Championship Series\" and occurs multiple times throughout the year in cities around the world. \nPogopalooza features the top Xpogo athletes worldwide competing against each other to accumulate championship points that designate world rankings. Each individual Pogopalooza Tour Stop in a given year features the BIG AIR competition, a run-based event where athletes thrown down on a specially designed course, the BEST TRICK competition, and the HIGH JUMP competition. Individual medals and cash are provided to the top three winners in each competition, at each Pogopalooza. Overall, athletes accumulate points across all competitions and events. \nThe Pogopalooza competition is streamlined live through www.Xpogo.com.\n\nIn addition the competition, a world record day kicks off each Pogopalooza, where athletes attempt to break any one of the 15 Xpogo LLC-recognized Guinness World Records.\nAdditionally, all of the world's top pogo stick manufacturers normally attend each Pogopalooza, exhibiting their products and allowing the public to try all pogo sticks in the Free Jump/Clinic area.\n2018 pogopalooza is at wilkingsburg Pennsylvania\n\nXpogo LLC designs and builds the Pogopalooza courses. These courses consist of a series of boxes, ramps, steps, etc., which the jumpers utilize in their runs. The features of the course are most commonly topped with plywood and the frame made from two by fours. The final products are then painted. A new course is constructed for each Pogopalooza and then dismantled afterwards.\n"}
{"id": "780566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=780566", "title": "Possible world", "text": "Possible world\n\nIn philosophy and logic, the concept of a possible world is used to express modal claims. The concept of possible worlds is common in contemporary philosophical discourse but has been disputed.\n\nThose theorists who use the concept of possible worlds consider the \"actual\" world to be one of the many possible worlds. For each distinct way the world could have been, there is said to be a distinct possible world; the actual world is the one we in fact live in. Among such theorists there is disagreement about the nature of possible worlds; their precise ontological status is disputed, and especially the difference, if any, in ontological status between the actual world and all the other possible worlds. One position on these matters is set forth in David Lewis's modal realism (see below). There is a close relation between propositions and possible worlds. We note that every proposition is either true or false at any given possible world; then the \"modal status\" of a proposition is understood in terms of the \"worlds in which it is true\" and \"worlds in which it is false\". The following are among the assertions we may now usefully make:\n\n\nThe idea of possible worlds is most commonly attributed to Gottfried Leibniz, who spoke of possible worlds as ideas in the mind of God and used the notion to argue that our actually created world must be \"the best of all possible worlds\". Arthur Schopenhauer argued that on the contrary our world must be the worst of all possible worlds, because if it were only a little worse it could not continue to exist.\n\nScholars have found implicit earlier traces of the idea of possible worlds in the works of René Descartes, a major influence on Leibniz, Al-Ghazali (\"The Incoherence of the Philosophers\"), Averroes (\"The Incoherence of the Incoherence\"), Fakhr al-Din al-Razi (\"Matalib al-'Aliya\") and John Duns Scotus. The modern philosophical use of the notion was pioneered by David Lewis and Saul Kripke.\n\nA semantics for modal logic was first introduced in the late-1950s work of Saul Kripke and his colleagues. A statement in modal logic that is \"possible\" is said to be true in at least one possible world; a statement that is \"necessary\" is said to be true in all possible worlds.\n\nFrom this groundwork, the theory of possible worlds became a central part of many philosophical developments, from the 1960s onwards – including, most famously, the analysis of counterfactual conditionals in terms of \"nearby possible worlds\" developed by David Lewis and Robert Stalnaker. On this analysis, when we discuss what \"would\" happen \"if\" some set of conditions \"were\" the case, the truth of our claims is determined by what is true at the nearest possible world (or the \"set\" of nearest possible worlds) where the conditions obtain. (A possible world W is said to be near to another possible world W in respect of R to the degree that the same things happen in W and W in respect of R; the more different something happens in two possible worlds in a certain respect, the \"further\" they are from one another in that respect.) Consider this conditional sentence: \"If George W. Bush hadn't become president of the U.S. in 2001, Al Gore would have.\" The sentence would be taken to express a claim that could be reformulated as follows: \"In all nearest worlds to our actual world (nearest in relevant respects) where George W. Bush didn't become president of the U.S. in 2001, Al Gore became president of the U.S. then instead.\" And on this interpretation of the sentence, if there is or are some nearest worlds to the actual world (nearest in relevant respects) where George W. Bush didn't become president but Al Gore didn't either, then the claim expressed by this counterfactual would be false.\n\nToday, possible worlds play a central role in many debates in philosophy, including especially debates over the Zombie Argument, and physicalism and supervenience in the philosophy of mind. Many debates in the philosophy of religion have been reawakened by the use of possible worlds. Intense debate has also emerged over the ontological status of possible worlds, provoked especially by David Lewis's defense of modal realism, the doctrine that talk about \"possible worlds\" is best explained in terms of innumerable, \"really existing\" worlds beyond the one we live in. The fundamental question here is: \"given\" that modal logic works, and that some possible-worlds semantics for modal logic is correct, \"what has to be true\" of the world, and just what \"are\" these possible worlds that we range over in our interpretation of modal statements? Lewis argued that what we range over are real, concrete \"worlds\" that exist just as unequivocally as our actual world exists, but that are distinguished from the actual world simply by standing in no spatial, temporal, or causal relations with the actual world. (On Lewis's account, the only \"special\" property that the \"actual\" world has is a relational one: that \"we\" are in it. This doctrine is called \"the indexicality of actuality\": \"actual\" is a merely indexical term, like \"now\" and \"here\".) Others, such as Robert Adams and William Lycan, reject Lewis's picture as metaphysically extravagant, and suggest in its place an interpretation of possible worlds as consistent, maximally complete sets of descriptions of or propositions about the world, so that a \"possible world\" is conceived of as a complete \"description\" of \"a way the world could be\" – rather than a \"world that is that way\". (Lewis describes their position, and similar positions such as those advocated by Alvin Plantinga and Peter Forrest, as \"\"ersatz\" modal realism\", arguing that such theories try to get the benefits of possible worlds semantics for modal logic \"on the cheap\", but that they ultimately fail to provide an adequate explanation.) Saul Kripke, in \"Naming and Necessity\", took explicit issue with Lewis's use of possible worlds semantics, and defended a \"stipulative\" account of possible worlds as purely \"formal\" (logical) entities rather than either really existent worlds or as some set of propositions or descriptions.\n\nPossible worlds theory in literary studies uses concepts from possible-world logic and applies them to worlds that are created by fictional texts, fictional universe. In particular, possible-world theory provides a useful vocabulary and conceptual framework with which to describe such worlds. However, a literary world is a specific type of possible world, quite distinct from the possible worlds in logic. This is because a literary text houses its own system of modality, consisting of actual worlds (actual events) and possible worlds (possible events). In fiction, the principle of simultaneity, it extends to cover the dimensional aspect, when it is contemplated that two or more physical objects, realities, perceptions and objects non-physical, can coexist in the same space-time. Thus, a literary universe is granted autonomy in much the same way as the actual universe.\n\nLiterary critics, such as Marie-Laure Ryan, Lubomír Doležel, and Thomas Pavel, have used possible-worlds theory to address notions of literary truth, the nature of fictionality, and the relationship between fictional worlds and reality. Taxonomies of fictional possibilities have also been proposed where the likelihood of a fictional world is assessed. Possible-world theory is also used within narratology to divide a specific text into its constituent worlds, possible and actual. In this approach, the modal structure of the fictional text is analysed in relation to its narrative and thematic concerns. Rein Raud has extended this approach onto \"cultural\" worlds, comparing possible worlds to the particular constructions of reality of different cultures. However, the metaphor of the \"cultural possible worlds\" relates to the framework of cultural relativism and, depending on the ontological status ascribed to possible worlds, warrants different, often controversial claims ranging from ethnocentrism to cultural imperialism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33901455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33901455", "title": "Professional-managerial class", "text": "Professional-managerial class\n\nThe Professional-Managerial class was an influential New Class hypothesis in social science in the United States in the 1970s by John and Barbara Ehrenreich. The Ehrenreichs hypothesized a social class within capitalism that, by controlling production processes through superior management skills, was neither proletarian nor bourgeois. This hypothesis contributed to the Marxist debates on class in Fordism and was used as an analytical category in the examination of non-proletarian employees.\n\nThis group of middle class professionals is distinguished from other social classes by their training and education, typically business qualifications and university degrees, with occupations including academics, teachers, social workers, engineers, managers, nurses, and middle-level administrators. The professional-managerial class tends to have incomes above the average for their country.\n\nIt is estimated that in the United States during 1930, people in professional-managerial class occupations made up less than 1 percent of total employment. In 1972, about 24 percent of American jobs were in professional-managerial class occupations. By 1983 the number had risen to 28 percent and in 2006, 35 percent.\n"}
{"id": "38584297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38584297", "title": "Register of interests", "text": "Register of interests\n\nA Register of Interests is a record kept, usually by a government body, of financial interests of its members. The register documents interests which may potentially unethically or unlawfully influence members' official duties.\n"}
{"id": "48425116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48425116", "title": "Roman Ondak", "text": "Roman Ondak\n\nRoman Ondak (born August 5, 1966) is a Slovak conceptual artist. \n\nRoman Ondak was born in Žilina. He studied at Academy of Fine Arts and Design (Slovak: \"Vysoká škola výtvarných umení\", abbr. VŠVU) in Bratislava from 1988 to 1994.\n\nOndak was named the 2018 winner of the .\n\n\nBiennale in Venezia (1999, 2003, 2009, 2011)<br>\n\n2006: Tate Modern in London (2006)<br>\n\n2007: Pinakothek der Moderne in München (2007)<br>\n\n2009: Museum of Modern Art, New York<br>\n\n2011: Modern Art Oxford in Oxford<br>\n\n2011: \"Enter the Orbit\". Kunsthaus Zürich<br>\n\n2012: Deutsche Guggenheim, Berlin<br>\n\n2012: Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris, Paris<br>\n\n2012: \"Within Reach of Hand and Eye\". Kunstsammlung Nordrhein-Westfalen K21, Düsseldorf<br>\n\n2012: DOCUMENTA 13<br>\n\n2013: Mueso Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofia, Madrid<br>\n\n2015: Times Museum, Guangzhou<br>\n\n2017: Kunsten Museum of Modern Art, Aalborg<br>\n\n2009: Nominated for Hugo Boss Prize\n\n2012: Best Artist of the Year elected by the Deutsche Bank<br>2018: Lovis Corinth prize<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "37362851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37362851", "title": "Self-fulfillment", "text": "Self-fulfillment\n\nIn philosophy and psychology, self-fulfillment is the realizing of one's deepest desires and capacities. The history of this concept can be traced to Ancient Greek philosophers and it still remains a notable concept in modern philosophy.\n\nPhilosopher Alan Gewirth in his book \"Self-Fulfillment\" defined self-fulfillment as \"carrying to fruition one's deepest desires or one's worthiest capacities.\" Another definition states that self-fulfillment is \"the attainment of a satisfying and worthwhile life well lived.\" It is an ideal that can be traced to Ancient Greek philosophers, and one that has been common and popular in both Western and non-Western cultures. Self-fulfillment is often seen as superior to other values and goals.\n\nGewirth notes that \"to seek for a good human life is to seek for self-fulfillment\". However, in modern philosophy, the ideal of self-fulfillment has become less popular, criticized by thinkers such as Hobbes and Freud, who feel there are conceptual and moral problems associated with it. It has been called an egoistic concept, impossible to achieve, with some suggesting that it is an obsolete concept that should be abandoned. Moral philosophers focus less on obtaining a good life, and more on interpersonal relations and duties owed to others. Similarly, whereas Plato and Aristotle saw the goal of the polis in providing a means of self-fulfillment to citizens, modern governments have given up on that, focusing rather on maintaining civic order. Despite the criticism, the concept of self-fulfillment still persists in modern philosophy, its usefulness defended by thinkers such as Gewirth himself.\n\nGewirth noted that the term self-fulfillment has two near synonyms: self-realization and self-actualization, used respectively by philosophers and humanist psychologists, whereas the term self-fulfillment is more commonly used outside those expert fields. Gewirth however argues that this concept is sufficiently different from those others to merit not being used as a synonym. Self-actualization in particular, often discussed in the context of Maslow's hierarchy of needs, is frequently defined as the \"need for self-fulfillment\".\n\nDr. Ben Carvosso in his book \"Life CEO - Take Charge, and start doing your life's work, not your busy work\" discussed the prevalence of individuals who's lives are busy, full but unfulfilled. Individuals who's lives are unfulfilled because something is missing and who come to the mistaken conclusion (driven by cleaver marketing by big corporations) that the solution is work harder and make more money to somehow make more time. Self-fulfillment comes from knowing what you really want, not what society says you should want. Its only when we connect with what we really want that we experience true joy or Eudaimonia.\n\nSelf-fulfillment has been positively connected to altruism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "977763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977763", "title": "Simon Baron-Cohen", "text": "Simon Baron-Cohen\n\nSimon Baron-Cohen (born 15 August 1958) is an English clinical psychologist, professor of developmental psychopathology at the University of Cambridge in the United Kingdom. He is the Director of the University's Autism Research Centre and a Fellow of Trinity College. In 1985 he formulated the mind-blindness theory of autism, the evidence for which was collated in his 1995 book. In 1997, he formulated the fetal sex steroid theory of autism, the key test of which was published in 2015. He has also made major contributions to the fields of typical cognitive sex differences, autism prevalence and screening, autism genetics, autism neuroimaging, autism and technical ability, and synaesthesia.\n\nBaron-Cohen completed a BA in Human Sciences at New College, Oxford, and an MPhil in Clinical Psychology at the Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London. He completed a PhD in Psychology at University College London; his doctoral research was in collaboration with his supervisor Uta Frith.\n\nHe married Bridget Lindley, a family rights lawyer, in 1987. She died in 2016.\n\nBaron-Cohen has three children, the eldest of whom is screenwriter and director Sam Baron. He has an elder brother Dan Baron Cohen and three younger siblings, brother Ash Baron-Cohen and sisters Suzie and Liz. Their cousin is the actor and comedian Sacha Baron Cohen. Baron-Cohen's surname includes a hyphen—which is not the case with most other members of his family—because of a typographical error in his first professional article; he never had the error corrected.\n\nWhile he was a member of the Cognitive Development Unit (CDU) in London, in 1985 Baron-Cohen was lead author of the first study, published with Alan M. Leslie and Uta Frith, which proposed a correlation between children with autism and delays in the development of a theory of mind, known as ToM. A theory of mind is the ability to imagine other people's emotions and thoughts, and it is a skill that according to Baron-Cohen's research is typically delayed developmentally in children with autism.\nBaron-Cohen and his colleagues discovered in 1987 the first evidence that experiences in synaesthesia remain consistent over time; they also found synaesthesia to be measurable via neuroimaging techniques. His team has investigated whether synaesthesia is connected to autism.\n\nIn 1997 Baron-Cohen developed the empathising–systemising theory. His theory is that a cognitive profile with a systemising drive that is stronger than empathising is associated with maths, science and technology skills, and exists in families with autism spectrum disorders. He suspects that if individuals with a \"systemising\" focus are selecting each other as mates, they are more likely to have children with autism. He postulates that more individuals with autistic traits are marrying each other and having children. He said that \"In essence, some geeks may be carriers of genes for autism: in their own life, they do not demonstrate any signs of severe autism, but when they pair up and have kids, their children may get a double dose of autism genes and traits. In this way, assortative mating between technical-minded people might spread autism genes.\"\n\nAccording to \"Time\" magazine, his views on systemising traits had \"earned him the ire of some parents of autistic children, who complain that he underestimates their families' suffering\". \"Time\" said that while research from Washington University in St. Louis did not support the assortive mating theory, a survey finding that autism was twice as high in Eindhoven (the Silicon Valley of the Netherlands) had \"breathed new life\" into Baron-Cohen's theory. The theory has received further support in 2016.\n\nBaron-Cohen's work in systemising-empathising led him to investigate whether higher levels of fetal testosterone explain the increased prevalence of autism spectrum disorders among males; his theory is known as the \"extreme male brain\" theory of autism. A review of his book \"The Essential Difference\" published in \"Nature\" in 2003 summarises his proposal as: \"the male brain is programmed to systemize and the female brain to empathize ... Asperger's syndrome represents the extreme male brain\". Critics say that because his work has focused on higher-functioning individuals with autism spectrum disorders, it requires independent replication with broader samples. His prediction that prenatal testosterone would be elevated in autism has been confirmed.\n\nIn 2001 he developed the autism-spectrum quotient, a set of fifty questions that can be used to help determine whether or not an adult exhibits symptoms of autism. The AQ has subsequently been used in hundreds of studies including one study of half a million people, showing robust sex differences and higher scores in those who work in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics).\n\nBaron-Cohen developed the Mindreading software for special education, which was nominated for an award from the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA) interactive award in 2002. His lab developed \"The Transporters\", an animation series designed to teach children with autism to recognise and understand emotions. The series was also nominated for a BAFTA award.\n\nBaron-Cohen has been criticized for his \"empathizing-systemizing theory\", which claims that humans may be classified on the basis of their scores along two dimensions (empathizing and systemizing); and that females tend to score higher on the empathizing dimension and males tend to score higher on the systemizing dimension. Columnist at \"The Guardian\" Madeleine Bunting has summarized some of these aspects in the 2010 article \"The truth about sex difference is that if men are from Mars, so are women\". \n\nSome research in systemizing and empathizing in early life indicates that boys and girls develop in similar ways, casting considerable doubt on the theory of sex differences in these areas. \"Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences\" characterized \"The Essential Difference\" as \"very disappointing\" with a \"superficial notion of intelligence\", concluding that Baron-Cohen's major claims about mind-blindness and systemizing–empathizing are \"at best, dubious\".\n\n\"Time\" magazine has also criticized the assortative mating theory proposed by Baron-Cohen, claiming that it is largely speculative and based on anecdotal evidence. The theory claims that autism rates are increasing because \"systemizers\", individuals with more autistic traits, are more likely to marry each other and are more likely to have autistic offspring due to relatively recent societal changes. \n\nA 2009 study led by Baron-Cohen which reported that autistic individuals possessed superior visual acuity has been subject to heavy criticism. The developers of the software he used said that his results were impossible based on the technology used in the study. Additionally, the results of the study could not be replicated in a follow-up study.\n\nBaron-Cohen's supposition that Isaac Newton and Albert Einstein displayed autistic traits has been met with skepticism by UCSF psychiatrist Glenn Elliot. Elliot views attempting to diagnose on the basis of biographical information as extremely unreliable, and claims that any behaviour can have various causes. \n\nIn August 2018 Baron-Cohen criticized the Twitter hashtag #EndAutismNow, describing it as hate speech and eugenics, while comparing it to the goals of the Nazi Party and the Ku Klux Klan. Jonathan Ferguson, writing in \"The Times of Israel\", responded that it is inappropriate for Baron-Cohen to compare advocates for an autism cure to the Nazi Party or the Ku Klux Klan.\n\nHis theories have been described by psychologist Cordelia Fine as \"neurosexism\". The 2017 book \"\" by Angela Saini develops a \"take-down\" of the sex differences research from Baron-Cohen and his colleagues, who carry on Darwin's \"idea that man and woman...evolved to meet their roles of hunter and gatherer, respectively.\"\n\nBaron-Cohen is a Fellow of the British Psychological Society (BPS), the British Academy, and the Association for Psychological Science. He is a BPS Chartered Psychologist.\n\nHe serves as Vice-President of the National Autistic Society (UK), and was the 2012 Chairman of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) Guideline Development Group for adults with autism. He has served as Vice-President of the International Society for Autism Research (INSAR). He is co-editor in chief of the journal \"Molecular Autism\". He is President-Elect of INSAR.\n\nHe is the Chair of the Psychology Section of the British Academy.\n\nBaron-Cohen was awarded the 1990 Spearman Medal from the BPS, the McAndless Award from the American Psychological Association, the 1993 May Davidson Award for Clinical Psychology from the BPS, and the 2006 presidents' Award from the BPS. He was awarded the Kanner-Asperger Medal in 2013 by the \"Wissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Autismus-Spektrum\" as a Lifetime Achievement Award for his contributions to autism research.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42842497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42842497", "title": "Staircase model", "text": "Staircase model\n\nThe staircase model is a psychological explanation as to why out of large numbers of disgruntled people in society, only a very small minority end up committing acts of terrorism. It was proposed in 2005 by Fathali M. Moghaddam in his paper \"The Staircase to Terrorism\". The model involves a metaphorical staircase, where each step is influenced by a specific psychological process. It is proposed that the higher an individual moves up the staircase, the fewer alternatives to violence they will see, ultimately resulting in the destruction of themselves, others, or both.\n\nMoghaddam observed that societal-level variables, such as lack of democratic processes, social inequality, availability of weapons and rapid demographic changes, do not explain why only a small percentage of people living under the same adverse conditions end up committing acts of violence against innocent targets. He proposed the staircase model to explain this phenomenon, describing the pathway to terrorism as a narrowing staircase, that very few people reach the top of.\n\nThe model involves six floors.\nThe ground floor is inhabited by all members of society. All members of society evaluate their living conditions in terms of fairness. People will remain on the ground floor as long as they consider their living conditions to be fair. Those who perceive injustice move onto the first floor.\n\nOn the first floor, people consider their options for improving their situation. People who find options to improve their individual situation and influence decision-makers leave the staircase at this floor in order to pursue non-violent paths. People who are unsatisfied with their available options move onto the second floor.\n\nIt is here that feelings of both anger and frustration over not being able to improve the situation instigate a search for a target to blame. This target can either be a direct opponent, such as a government, or a third party to whom aggression is displaced, such as an ethnic or religious group. People who are persuaded that they have an enemy toward whom they can direct their aggression, will proceed to the third floor.\n\nPeople who arrive here have already developed a readiness towards violence. These feelings can be capitalised on by a violent organisation that is offering a sense of 'moral engagement' to potential recruits. Within these organisations violent actions against a perceived enemy are regarded as acceptable or even as one's duty. Potential recruits are offered a new social identity as members of a selective ingroup who aim to bring justice to the world. People who find this offer appealing will move on to the fourth floor.\n\nIt is here that thinking such as 'us' versus 'them' is promoted. Recruits are isolated from friends and family, strict secrecy is imposed and the legitimacy of the organisation is emphasised. People who reach this floor will rarely withdraw and exit the staircase alive. They will move onto the fifth floor if an opportunity to do so presents.\n\nIt is here that the violent act is carried out. In order to be as effective as possible, any inhibition about killing innocent people must be overcome. This is done via two means. Categorisation stresses the differentiation between ingroup and out group, and distancing exaggerates the differences between the ingroup and the perceived enemy.\n\nMoghaddam states the model is not a formal one, but rather a metaphor for the purpose of providing general framework in order to organise current psychological knowledge regarding terrorism. Nevertheless, the model is cited as useful for conceptualising the process that results in only a small number of individuals from a large group of disgruntled people will commit acts of violence against the innocent. Moghaddam states that it is not enough to simply try and identify and stop potential terrorists, as this will only make room for new people to step forward, and instead proposes that the only way to end terrorism is by reforming the condition on the ground floor so that it is no longer perceived as unjust and hopeless by a large portion of society.\n\nThe empirical basis of the model has been evaluated by an article in the Scandinavian Journal of Psychology. The findings state that whilst most of the processes in the model are supported by empirical evidence, the quantity and quality of said evidence varies. Whilst praising Moghaddam's model for emphasising potential mechanisms for future study, the review concludes that the staircase model may not be the right metaphor for summarising the phenomena of terrorism, citing a lack of evidence for transition between the floors, and the possibility that some floors and corresponding processes from the model could be removed entirely due to a lack of empirical evidence.\n"}
{"id": "5867865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5867865", "title": "Sust’n’Able", "text": "Sust’n’Able\n\nSust 'n' Able is the Woodcraft Folk's programme of education for sustainable development.\nThe project was the theme of the Woodcraft Folk's 2001 international camp in Nottinghamshire where 4,000 young people attended. The camp focused on sustainable development education and ran activates for children from five to twenty five around the themes.\n\nAt the camp a simulation game took place called \"'World on a Tight Rope\", it ran the length of the camp and involved people working for credits to create a more sustainable world. The simulation included two 'Earth Summits' held at the camp to come up with a declaration to the world's leaders at the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD). The Earth Summit had \"action stations\" where people debated the issues to be included in the declaration.\n\nThe Declaration created as part of the simulation game was presented by a delegation of 11 young people. The delegation attended the United Nations' World Summit on Sustainable Development including both the civil society and the official political areas of the summit. The group worked with the International Falcon Movement - Socialist Education International delegation attending the summit.\n\nDelegations from Woodcraft Folk attend all the Commission on Sustainable Development meetings in New York City which are follow-up meetings to the annual WSSD, with thematic cycles changing every two years.\n\n"}
{"id": "806023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=806023", "title": "Sympathy", "text": "Sympathy\n\nSympathy (from the Greek words \"syn\" \"together\" and \"pathos\" \"feeling\" which means \"fellow-feeling\") is the perception, understanding, and reaction to the distress or need of another life form. This empathic concern is driven by a switch in viewpoint, from a personal perspective to the perspective of another group or individual who is in need.\n\nThe words \"empathy\" and \"sympathy\" are often used interchangeably. Sympathy is a feeling, but the two terms have distinct origins and meanings. Merriam-Webster defines \"empathy\" as \"the action of understanding, being aware of, being sensitive to, and vicariously experiencing the feelings, thoughts, and experience of another of either the past or present without having the feelings, thoughts, and experience fully communicated in an objectively explicit manner\". Merriam-Webster defines that sympathy is when you share the feelings of another; empathy is when you understand the feelings of another but do not necessarily share them, as \"sympathy\" was defined by 18th century philosophers such as Adam Smith. Meanwhile, Grammarist.com defines \"sympathy\" as \"the feeling that you care about and are sorry about someone else's trouble, grief, misfortune, etc.\"; \"a feeling of support for something\"; or \"a state in which different people share the same interests, opinions, goals, etc.\", but not necessarily the feeling that you share another person's emotions.\n\nIn order to get an experience of sympathy there are specific conditions that need to occur. These include: attention to a subject, believing that a person/group is in a state of need, and the specific characteristics of a given situation. An individual must first give his or her attention to a person/group. Distractions severely limit the ability to produce strong affective responses. Without distractions, people are able to attend to and respond to a variety of emotional subjects and experiences. Attention facilitates the experience of sympathy, and without giving undivided attention to many situations sympathy cannot be experienced.\n\nThe need of an individual/group is also considered to elicit sympathy. Varying states of need (such as perceived vulnerability or pain) require unique human reactions, ranging from attention to sympathy. A person with cancer might draw a stronger feeling of sympathy than a person with a cold. The conditions which sympathy is deemed as an appropriate response are organized into individual differences and situational differences.\n\nThe ways in which people think about human deservingness, interdependence, and vulnerability motivate sympathy. A person who seems 'deserving' of aid is more likely to be helped. A belief in human interdependence fuels sympathetic behavior.\n\nSympathy is also believed to be based on the principle of the powerful helping the vulnerable (young, elderly, sick). This desire to help the vulnerable has been suggested to stem from the paternalistic nature of humans, in which they seek to protect and aid the children and the weak in their survival. People help others based on maternal/paternal instincts to care for their own children or family when they are in need.\n\nIndividual moods, previous experiences, social connections, novelty, salience, and spatial proximity can also influence the experience of sympathy. Individuals experiencing positive mood states and people who have similar life experiences are more likely to produce sympathy.\n\nSpatial proximity, or when a person or group exists close geographically (such as neighbors and citizens of a given country), they will more likely experience sympathy towards each other. Similarly, \"social\" proximity follows the same pattern. Members of certain groups (ex. racial groups) favor people who are also members of groups similar to their own. Social proximity is intimately linked with in-group and out-group status. In-group status, or a person falling within a certain social group, is also integral to the experience of sympathy. Both of these processes are based on the notion that people within the same group are interconnected and share successes and failures and therefore experience more sympathy towards each other than to out-group members, or social outsiders.\n\nNew and emotionally provoking situations also represent an explanation for empathic emotions, such as sympathy. People seem to habituate to events that are similar in content and type and strength of emotion. The first horrific event that is witnessed will elicit a greater sympathetic response compared to the subsequent experiences of the same horrific event.\n\nThe evolution of sympathy is tied directly into the development of social intelligence. Social intelligence references a broad range of behaviors, and their associated cognitive skills, such as pair bonding, the creation of social hierarchies, and alliance formation. Researchers theorize that empathic emotions, or those relating to the emotions of others, arose due to reciprocal altruism, mother-child bonding, and the need to accurately estimate the future actions of conspecifics. In other words, empathic emotions were driven by the desire to create relationships that were mutually beneficial and to better understand the emotions of others that could avert danger or stimulate positive outcomes. By working together, there were better results for everyone. Social order is improved when people are able to provide aid to others when it is a detriment to oneself for the good of the greater society. For example, giving back to the community often leads to personal benefits.\nThe conditions necessary to develop empathic concerns, and later sympathy, begin with the creation of a small group of socially dependent individuals. Second, the individuals in this community must have a relatively long lifespan in order to encounter several opportunities to react with sympathy. Parental care relationships, alliances during conflicts, and the creation of social hierarchies are also associated with the onset of sympathy in human interactions. Sympathetic behavior originally came about during dangerous situations, such as predator sightings, and moments when aid was needed for the sick and/or wounded. The evolution of sympathy as a social catalyst can be seen in both primate species and in human development.\n\nVerbal communication is the clearest medium by which individuals are able to communicate feelings of sympathy. People can express sympathy by addressing the emotions being felt by themselves and others involved and by acknowledging the current environmental conditions for why sympathy would be the appropriate reaction.\n\nNonverbal communication presents a fascinating study of speech intonation, facial expression, bodily motions and person-to-person physical contacts. Some other forms of nonverbal communication include how far people position themselves in relation to each other, posture and appearance. These forms of expression can convey messages related to emotion as well as opinions, physical states (fatigue), and understanding. Emotional expression is especially linked to the production of emotion-specific facial expressions. These expressions are often the same from culture to culture and are often reproduced by observers, which facilitates the observers' own understanding of the emotion and/or situation. There are six universal emotions: happiness, sadness, fear, surprise, disgust and anger.\n\nNonverbal communication cues are often subconscious and difficult to control. Deliberate regulation of emotion and nonverbal expression is often imperfect. Nonverbal gestures and facial expressions are also generally better understood by people observing the gestures, expressions, etc., and not by the person experiencing them first hand.\n\nCommunicating using physical touch has the unique ability of conveying affective information upon contact. However, this sensation must be paired with the understanding of the specific context of a given situation. The touch of the hand on the shoulder during a funeral might be the fastest method of conveying sympathy. Patting a person on their back, arms, or head for a few seconds can effectively convey feelings of sympathy between people. Nonverbal communication seems to provide a more genuine communication of sympathy, because it is difficult to control nonverbal behavior and expressions. The combination of verbal and nonverbal communication facilitates the acknowledgment and comprehension of sympathy.\n\nAlthough sympathy is a well-known term, the implications of sympathy found in the study of human behavior are often less clear. Decision-making, an integral part of human behavior, involves the weighing of costs with potential outcomes. Research on decision-making has been divided into two mechanisms, often labeled \"System 1\" and \"System 2.\" These two systems, representing the gut and the head respectively, influence decisions based on context and the individual characteristics of the people involved. Sympathy is an agent working in System 1, a system that uses affective cues to dictate decisions whereas System 2 is based in logic and reason. For example, deciding on where to live based on how the new home feels would be a System 1 decision, whereas deciding on a home based on the property value and personal savings would be a System 2 decision. Sympathy acts in a way that provides a means of understanding another person's experience or situation, good or bad, with a focus on their individual well-being. It is often easier to make decisions based on emotional information, because all humans have general understanding of emotions. It is this understanding of emotions that allows people to use sympathy to make their decisions.\n\nSympathy also helps to motivate philanthropic, or aid-giving, behavior (i.e. donations, community service). The choice to donate, and the subsequent decision of how much to give, can be separated into two, different emotion-driven decision making processes. Mood management, or how people act to maintain their moods, influences the initial decision to donate because of selfish concerns (to avoid regret or feel better). However, how a person feels about the deservingness of the recipient determined \"how much\" to donate. Human sympathy in donation behavior can influence the amount of aid given to people and regions that are in need. Increasing how emotional a description is, presenting individual cases instead of large groups, and using less information and numerical information can positively influence giving behavior.\n\nIn addition to its influence on decision-making, sympathy also plays a role in maintaining social order. Judging people's character helps to maintain social order, making sure that those who are in need receive the appropriate care. The notion of interdependence fuels sympathetic behavior; this action is seen as self-satisfying because helping someone who is connected to you through some way (family, social capital) will often result in a personal reward (social, monetary, etc.). Regardless of selflessness or selfishness, sympathy facilitates the cycle of give and take that is necessary for maintaining a functional society.\n\nSympathy can also impact the way doctors, nurses, and other members of society think about and treat people with different diseases and conditions. Sympathetic tendencies within the health field fall disproportionately based on patient characteristics and disease type. One factor that is frequently considered when determining sympathy is controllability, or the degree to which an individual could have avoided contracting the disease or medical condition. People devote less sympathy to individuals who had control during the event when they acquired HIV. Even less sympathy is granted to individuals who have control over the means by which they contracted HIV, such as individuals who engage in prostitution.\n\nSympathy in health-related decision making is heavily based on disease stigma. Disease stigma can lead to discrimination in the work place and in insurance coverage. High levels of stigma are also associated with social hostility. Several factors contribute to the development of negative disease stigmas, including the disease's time course, severity, and the dangers that the disease might pose to others. Sexual orientation of individual patients has also been shown to affect stigma levels in the case of HIV diagnoses. Sympathy is generally associated with low levels of disease stigmatization.\n\nSympathy is related to increased levels of knowledge regarding HIV and a lower likelihood of avoiding individuals with HIV.\n\nSocial and emotional stimuli, particularly those related to the well-being of another person, are being more directly studied with advent of technology that can track brain activity (such as Electroencephalograms and functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging). Amygdala and insula activation occur when a person experiences emotions, such as fear and disgust respectively. Primary motor regions are also activated during sympathy. This could be caused by humans' reaction to emotional faces, reflecting the expressions on their own faces, which seems to help people better understand the other person's emotion. In addition, researchers have also suggested that the neural mechanisms that are activated when personally experiencing emotions are also activated when viewing another person experiencing the same emotions (mirror neurons). Pain seems to specifically activate a region known as the cingulate cortex, in addition to activation that is mentioned earlier. The temporal parietal junction, orbitofrontal cortex, and ventral striatum are also thought to play a role in the production of emotion.\n\nGenerally, empathic emotions (including sympathy), require the activation of top-down and bottom-up activity. Top-down activity refers to cognitive processes that originate from the frontal lobe and require conscious thought whereas bottom-up activity begins from sensation of stimuli in the environment. From the sensory level, people must sense and experience the emotional cues of another. At the same time, indicative of the dual-process theory, top-down responses must be enacted to make sense of the emotional inputs streaming in and apply motive and environmental influence analyses to better understand the situation. Top-down processes often include attention to emotion and emotion regulation.\n\nSympathy is a stepping stone in both social and moral development. It generally arises between 2–3 years old, although some instances of empathic emotion can be seen as early as 18 months. Basic sharing of emotions, a precursor for sympathy, can be seen in infants. For example, babies will often begin to cry when they hear another baby crying nearby. This emphasizes the infant's ability to recognize emotional cues in his or her environment, even if not able to fully comprehend the emotion. Another milestone in child rearing is the development of the ability to mimic facial expressions. Both of these processes act on sensory and perceptual pathways, yet executive functioning for empathic emotions does not begin during these early stages. Decety and Michalska (2010) believe that early affective development and later development of executive functions create a disparity between how children and young adults experience another person's pain. Young children tend to be negatively aroused more often in comparison to the older subjects.\n\nSympathy can lead to, and be the cause of prosocial and altruistic behaviour. Altruistic behaviour is when people who experience emotional reactions consistent with the state of another person and feel \"other-oriented\" (inclined to help other people in need or distressed.)\nPeople are more inclined to help those in need when they cannot easily escape the situation. If leaving is easy, an individual is likely to reduce one's own distress (of sympathy; feeling bad) by avoiding contact with the other(s) in need. Sympathy is still experienced when it is easy to escape the situation, showing that humans are \"other oriented\" and altruistic.\n\nIt is important to acknowledge that the use or acceptance of sympathy can be both altruistic and self-satisfying in social situations. Parenting styles (specifically level of affection) can influence the development of sympathy. Prosocial and moral development extends into adolescence and early adulthood as humans learn to better assess and interpret the emotions of others. Prosocial behaviours have been observed in children 1–2 years old. Through self-report methods it is difficult to measure emotional responses as they are not as able to report these responses as well as adult. This is representative of an increased efficiency of and ability to engage in internal moral reasoning.\n\nThe development of theory of mind, or the ability to view the world from perspectives of other people, is strongly associated with the development of sympathy and other complex emotions. These emotions are complex because they involve more than just one's own emotional states; complex emotions involve the interplay of multiple people's varying and fluctuating thoughts and emotions within given contexts. The ability to experience vicarious emotion, or imagining how another person feels, is integral for empathic concern. Moral development is similarly tied to the understanding of outside perspectives and emotions. Moral reasoning has been divided into five categories beginning with a hedonistic self-orientation and ending with an internalized sense of needs of others, including empathic emotions.\n\nA study conducted in Switzerland in 2006 sought to find whether or not sympathy demonstrated by children was solely for personal benefit, or if the emotion was an innate part of development. Parents, teachers, and 1,300 children (aged 6 and 7) were interviewed regarding the child's behavior. Over the course of one year, questionnaires were filled out regarding the progress and behavior of each youth. Thereafter, an interview was conducted in the spring of 2007. The study concluded that children do develop sympathy and empathy independently of parental guidance. Furthermore, the study found that girls are more sympathetic, prosocial, and morally motivated than boys. Prosocial behavior has been noted in children as young as 12 months when showing and giving toys to their parents, without promoting or being reinforced by praise. Levels of prosocial behavior increased with sympathy in children with low moral motivation, as it reflects the link between innate abilities and honing them with the guidance of parents and teachers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25897766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25897766", "title": "The road to hell is paved with good intentions", "text": "The road to hell is paved with good intentions\n\nThe road to hell is paved with good intentions is a proverb or aphorism. An alternative form is \"Hell is full of good meanings, but heaven is full of good works\".\n\nThe saying is thought to have originated with Saint Bernard of Clairvaux who wrote ( 1150), \"\"L'enfer est plein de bonnes volontés ou désirs\" (hell is full of good wishes or desires). An earlier saying occurs in Virgil's \"Aeneid\": \"facilis descensus Averno\" (the descent to hell is easy)\".\n\nA common interpretation of the saying is that wrongdoings or evil actions are often masked by good intentions; or even that good intentions, when acted upon, may have unintended consequences. A simple example is the introduction of an invasive species, like the Asian carp, which has become a nuisance due to unexpected proliferation and behaviour.\n\nAnother meaning of the phrase is that individuals may have the intention to undertake good actions but nevertheless fail to take action. This inaction may be due to procrastination, laziness or other subversive vice. As such, the saying is an admonishment that a good intention is meaningless unless followed through.\n\nMoral certainty can be used to justify the harm done by failing policies and actions. Those with good intentions believe their practices are good for the group; it is self-evident to them. They justify collateral damage in the belief they do a greater good. The Nazi concentration camps were created to hold so-called \"racially undesirable elements\" of German society. The GULAG system was introduced in order to isolate disloyal elements not contributing to the dictatorship of the proletariat. The Inquisition was established to eradicate heretics in religious states. The harm done is clearly seen, and acknowledged, but is written off as a 'price worth paying'.\n\nOn a personal level, taking a subjectively \"good action\" can land one in a horrific emotional and/or physical state of being, e.g., a soldier goes off to war to fight for the subjective good of their country and ends up with post-traumatic stress disorder.\n\nPsychological studies of the effect of intention upon task completion by professors Peter Gollwitzer, Paschal Sheeran and Sheina Orbell indicate that there is some truth in the proverb. Perfectionists are especially prone to having their intentions backfire in this way. Some have argued that people are more likely to interpret their own actions as more well intended than the actions of others.\n\nAttempts to improve the ethical behaviour of groups are often counter-productive. If legislation is used for such an attempt, people observe the letter of the law rather than improve the desired behaviour. During negotiation, groups that are encouraged to understand the point of view of the other parties are worse at this than those whose perspective is not enlightened. The threat of punishment may make behavior less rather than more ethical. Studies of business ethics indicate that most wrongdoing is not due directly to wickedness but is performed by people who did not plan to err.\n\nStephen Garrard Post, writing about altruism, suggests that good intentions are often not what they seem and that mankind normally acts from less worthy, selfish motives—\"If the road to hell is paved with good intentions, it is partly because that is the road they generally start out on.\"\n\nAuthors who have used the phrase include Charlotte Brontë, Lord Byron, Samuel Johnson, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Sir Walter Scott, Søren Kierkegaard, and Karl Marx. Ozzy Osbourne used the term in the song \"Tonight\" on his album \"Diary of a Madman\".\n\nIn the movie \"Highway to Hell\", the phrase is taken literally to create one particular scene. The Good Intentions Paving Company has a team of Andy Warhols who grind good-intentioned souls into pavement. \"I was only sleeping with my husband's boss to advance his career\", says one. The figurative meaning of the phrase is a big part of the plot too, as several characters offer help to the two protagonists on the Road to Hell, but all of them have ulterior motives.\n\nPink used the phrase in her 2006 song Dear Mr. President to refer to the No Child Left Behind Act.\n\nMadonna uses this line in her 2008 single \"4 Minutes,\" featuring Justin Timberlake and Timbaland, off her eleventh studio album \"Hard Candy\".\n\nThe phrase is used in the \"\" episode \"In the Pale Moonlight\".\n"}
{"id": "55684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55684", "title": "Time-out (parenting)", "text": "Time-out (parenting)\n\nTime-out is a form of behavioral modification that involves temporarily separating a person from an environment where unacceptable behavior has occurred. The goal is to remove that person from an enriched, enjoyable environment, and therefore lead to extinction of the offending behavior. It is an educational and parenting technique recommended by most pediatricians and developmental psychologists as an effective form of discipline. Often a corner (hence the common term \"corner time\") or a similar space where the person is to stand or sit during time-outs is designated. This form of discipline is especially popular in western cultures.\n\nIn the UK, the punishment is often known as the naughty chair or naughty step. This term became popular in the US thanks to two reality TV series, \"Supernanny\" and \"Nanny 911\".\n\nThe concept of time-out was invented, named, and used (see Child Magazine, 2006, \"20 People who Changed Childhood\") by Arthur W. Staats in his extended work with his daughter (and later son), and was part of a long-term program of behavioral analysis beginning in 1958 that treated various aspects of child development. He introduced various elements that later composed foundations for applied behavior analysis and behavior therapy. (The token reward system was another invention by him.) Montrose Wolf, a graduate student assistant of Staats on several studies dealing with reading learning in preschoolers (see, for example, \"The conditioning of textual responses using 'extrinsic' reinforcers\"), used that background when he went to the University of Washington where he began his creative program of research. Wolf began the widespread use of Staats' time-out procedure in extending training methods to an autistic child (see the 1964 published study dealing with the behavioral treatment of a child).\n\nStaats described the discipline of his 2-year-old daughter in 1962: \"I would put her in her crib and indicate that she had to stay there until she stopped crying. If we were in a public place [where her behavior was inappropriate], I would pick her up and go outside.\" .\n\nFor Staats, the timeout period was ended when the child's misbehavior, such as crying inappropriately, ended. He considered removal from a positive emotional environment to one of lesser positivity as a very mild punishment. Various people have added their opinions regarding time-out as the following indicates.\n\nTime out is a type two punishment procedure and is used commonly in schools, colleges, offices, clinics and homes. To implement time out, a caregiver removes the child from a reinforcing activity for a short period of time, usually 5 to 15 minutes, in order to discourage inappropriate behavior and teach the child that engaging in problem behavior will result in decreased access to reinforcing items and events in the child's environment.\n\nTime-outs may be on a chair, step, corner, bedroom, or any other location where there are no distractions and reduced access to fun items, activities and people. This procedure is preferable to other punishments such as reprimanding, yelling at or spanking the child for their misbehavior, which are type one punishments (positive punishment).\n\nResearch has established that 15 minutes is the maximum time that a child should be kept in time out from reinforcers. However, shorter durations may be just as effective for behavior change.\n\nFor this disciplinary technique to be most effective and to produce the desired results, the child should be old enough to sit still and is required to remain there for a fixed period. Also, according to developmental psychologists, parents should evaluate each situation to determine what may be causing the misbehavior, such as a toy, frustration, hunger, or lack of sleep, and then address any underlying needs before a punishment contingency should be used. Any time they are trying to reduce a problem behavior, parents should be sure that they are also teaching and reinforcing the desired replacement behavior. Parents should also clearly explain why the child is being put in time out, and what the child needs to do to return to the reinforcing environment/be let out of time-out (but too much explanation can reinforce the unwanted behavior as a result of \"misplaced adult attention\"). Furthermore, the renown developmental psychologist Kathleen Stassen Berger suggests that time-out should remain brief, proposing a general guideline: the length of time that the child should remain in time-out should correlate with the child's age - each of year of the child's age constitutes one minute in time-out.\n\nTime-out is one behavior control method based on removing positive reinforcement for a brief time. Less elaborate methods from the same class like tactical ignoring, or planned ignoring, also can be effective in cases where parental/caregiver attention is the positive reinforcement for negative behavior. This class of methods are more effective if the child gets a significant amount positive reinforcement (praise, attention) for good behavior. All punishment procedures can evoke other problem behaviors, damage rapport, or evoke escape or avoidant behaviors. For this, and other ethical reasons, behavior analysts exhaust all options for using differential reinforcement and/or extinction procedures to reduce problem behavior, before considering the use of punishment procedures.\n\nSeveral studies show that time-out is an especially effective disciplinary strategy, reducing aggressive and non-compliant behavior, when other positive parenting methods are also used. Time out must be linked with \"time in\" in order to be effective because children need to be able to find reinforcement through positive experiences.\n\nThere are differences between strategies for ending time out. While some proponents of time-outs insist on silence and stillness from the child during the time-out, it is easier to use a \"release-contingency,\" such that the requirement is only that the child is sitting peacefully at the end of the time-out period. Those who use time-out for children to get anger and frustration \"out of their system\" or for children to think about their behavior are using time-out in a way that is different than those basing it on operant behavioral principles (that time-out from positive reinforcement may reduce recurrences of the unwanted target behavior).\n\nIn a study by Donaldson and Vollmer, the efficacy of a fixed duration time-out and a release contingency time-out were compared. In the fixed duration condition, children were sent to time-out for a total of 4 minutes and were released from time-out whether or not they performed problem behavior during the time-out session. In the release contingency condition, children were not released from time-out if they were performing problem behavior during the last 30 seconds of their time-out. The time-out was extended until there were no occurrences of problem behavior for a total of 30 seconds or until the time-out reached the ten-minute mark. Results showed that both time-out procedures were successful in reducing the problem behavior for the subjects. The subjects in the release contingency did not benefit from staying in time-out for an extended period of time either. Moreover, the results show that only 4 minutes is necessary for a successful time-out procedure.\n\nThe effectiveness of time-out also varies with each individual child, dependent on the child's age, temperament and emotional wellness.\n\nCritics of time-out include Thomas Gordon, Gabor Mate, Alfie Kohn and Aletha Solter, who claim that the approach may lead to short-term compliance but has the same disadvantages as other forms of punishment. According to these authors, the use of time-out does not enhance moral behavior or teach children useful conflict-resolution skills and it fails to address the underlying cause of the behavior. Furthermore, they claim that the parent/child bond can be damaged by forced isolation and withdrawal of love in an effort to control a child's behavior and this can lead to feelings of insecurity or anxiety in children, though there is no evidence that this occurs. Another argument is that time-out, like all other methods of coercive control, eventually stops working as children grow older and begin to rebel against their parents’ authoritarian approach to discipline.\n\nIn addition to the potential psychological drawbacks resulting from the use of time-out, there also appears to be a risk to the child's developing brain, according to research in neuroscience by Daniel J. Siegel. “In a brain scan, relational pain (that caused by isolation during punishment) can look the same as physical abuse,” and “Repeated experiences actually change the physical structure of the brain.” However, Dr. Siegel backed away from this statement and claimed that Time Magazine distorted his message. He later clarified, \"The “appropriate” use of time-outs calls for brief, infrequent, previously explained breaks from an interaction used as part of a thought-out parenting strategy that is followed by positive feedback and connection with a parent. This seems not only reasonable, but it is an overall approach supported by the research as helpful for many children.\"\n\nThe Australian Association for Infant Mental Health has published a position statement in which the use of time-out is considered inappropriate, especially for children under three years of age, which matches with most professional advice.\n\nThe use of time-out needs to be carefully considered in families dealing with special challenges. In a review of parenting intervention programs for drug-abusing mothers, researchers found that programs emphasizing behavioral approaches to discipline (such as the use of time-out and rewards) “were not successful in fostering measurable improvement in mother-child interactions or promoting child development.” An attachment-based approach focusing on strengthening the parent/child relationship was found to be more successful than behavioral approaches in changing children's behavior in these families.\n\nOther studies have found that the traditional behavioral approach to discipline (such as the use of time-out and rewards) can be challenging with children in foster care with attachment disorders resulting from early abuse or neglect. Foster parents benefit from training that addresses these children's attachment and emotional issues, as wells as traditional parenting techniques.\n\nTime-out has been misused to the point of becoming abusive in some schools and so proper training for educational professionals is important. There are reported cases of children being locked in closets for extended periods of solitary confinement for behaviors such as crying or failing to finish an assignment. These are not examples of appropriate use of time-out.\n\n"}
{"id": "1245495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1245495", "title": "Trailokya", "text": "Trailokya\n\nTrailokya (; , ) has been translated as \"three worlds,\" \"three spheres,\" \"three planes of existence,\" \"three realms\" and \"three regions.\" \nThese three worlds are identified in Hinduism and appear in early Buddhist texts.\n\nIn Buddhism, the three worlds refer the following destinations for karmic rebirth:\n\nAccording to Helena Blavatsky's posthumously published \"Theosophical Glossary\" (1892):\n\nTrailokya is also a Hindu surname, mostly belonging to the Daivadnya Brahmin, a Hindu Brahmin sub-caste.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57297576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57297576", "title": "War of annihilation", "text": "War of annihilation\n\nA war of annihilation () is a type of warfare in which the goal is the complete annihilation of a state, a people or an ethnic minority through genocide or through the destruction of their livelihood. The goal can be outward-directed or inward, against elements of one's own population. The goal is not like other types of warfare, the recognition of limited political goals, such as recognition of a legal status (such as in a war of independence), control of disputed territory (as in war of aggression or defensive war), or the \ntotal military defeat (debellatio) of an enemy state.\nWar of annihilation is defined as a radicalized form of warfare in which \"all psycho-physical limits\" are abolished.\n\nThe Hamburg social scientist Jan Philipp Reemtsma sees a war, \"which is led, in the worst case, to destroy or even decimate a population\", as the heart of the war of annihilation.\nThe state organization of the enemy will be smashed. Another characteristic of a war of annihilation is its ideological character and the rejection of negotiations with the enemy, as the historian Andreas Hillgruber Andreas Hillgruber has shown in the example of the 1941 Operation Barbarossa against Jewish Bolshevism. The legitimacy and trustworthiness of the opponent is negated, demoted to status of a total enemy, with whom there can be no understanding, but rather devotes the totality of one's own \"Volk, Krieg und Politik [als] Triumph der Idee des Vernichtungskrieges\" (people, war and politics [to the] triumph of the idea of the war of annihilation).\n\nThe term \"war of extermination\" was used in many American wars with Amerindians, most notably California governor Peter Burnett's prediction of one during the California Genocide:\n\nSocial Democratic Party of Germany political communications had circulated the term \"Vernichtungskrieg\" in order to criticize the action against the insurgents during the Herero Wars.\n\nIn January 1904 the Herero and Namaqua genocide began in the German colony German South West Africa. With a total of about 15,000 men under Lieutenant General Lothar von Trotha, this uprising was prostrated until August 1904. Most of the Herero fled to the almost waterless Omaheke, an offshoot of the Kalahari Desert. From Trotha had them locked down and the refugees chased away from the few water spots there, so that thousands of Herero along with their families and cattle herds thirst. The hunted in the desert, let Trotha in the so-called \"Vernichtungsbefehl\", \"Annihilation Command\":\n\nTrotha's warfare aimed at the complete annihilation of the Herero (\"I believe that the nation must be destroyed as such\") and was supported in particular by Schlieffen and Kaiser Wilhelm II. His approach is therefore considered to be the first genocide of the twentieth century. Trotha's action sparked outrage in Germany and abroad; at the instigation of chancellor Bernhard von Bülow, the Emperor lifted the order of annihilation two months after the events in the Omaheke. Trotha's policy remained largely unchanged until its revocation in November 1905.\n\nThe war of annihilation was a further development of the concept of Total War, as 1935 the former imperial General Quartermaster Erich Ludendorff had designed. Thereafter, in a coming war, victory must be given unlimited priority over all other societal concerns: all resources would have to be harnessed, the will of the nation had to be made available before the outbreak of the hostilities are unified by propaganda and dictatorship violence, all available weapons would have to be used, and no consideration could be taken of International law. Even in its objectives, total war is unlimited, as the experience of First World War teaching:\n\nIn this conceptual delimitation of the war, Ludendorff was able to draw from the German military-theoretical discourse, which had formed in the confrontation with the People's War, the \"Guerre à outrance\", which the newly created Third French Republic in the fall and winter of 1870 against the Prussian-German invaders of the Franco-Prussian War.\n\nLudendorff also dealt with Carl von Clausewitz and his 1832 posthumously published work \"On War\", in which he distinguished between 'absolute' and 'limited' wars. But even for Clausewitz absolute war was subject to restrictions, such as the distinction between combatants and non-combatants, between military and civil or between public and private. Ludendorff claimed now that in total war it is no longer a \"petty political purpose\", not even \"big [...] national interests\", but the sheer \"Lebenserhaltung\" (life-support) of the nation, its identity. This existential threat also justifies the annihilation of the enemy, at least moral, if not physical. Ludendorffs efforts to radicalize the war (for which he was responsible from 1916) met with social, political and military barriers. In the year 1935, his advice was then, as the historian Robert Foley writes, \"on fertile ground\"; the time seemed ripe for an even more radical delimitation of the war by the National Socialists.\n\nThe best known example of a \"Vernichtungskrieg\" is the German-Soviet War, which began on June 22, 1941 with the German invasion of the Soviet Union. The Berlin historian Ernst Nolte called this 1963 in a much-quoted formulation as the \"most egregious \"Versklavungs- und Vernichtungskrieg\" [war of enslavement and annihilation] known to modern history\" and distinguished it from a \"normal war\", as the Nazi regime conducted against France.\n\nIn his 1965 habilitation thesis \"Hitlers Strategie\" Andreas Hillgruber worked out the motifs of the Nazi state based on racial ideological basis for the war against the Soviet Union:\n\nLater, Hillgruber explicitly described the character of the Eastern Front as \"intended racial-ideological war of annihilation\". Operation Barbarossa has also found its way into the historical-political teaching of general education schools as a historical example of an extermination war.\n\nThe concept of the war of annihilation was intensely discussed in the 1990s with reference to the \"Wehrmachtsausstellung\" of the Hamburg Institute for Social Research, which carried the word \"Vernichtungskrieg\" in the title. That Operation Barbarossa would be a war of annihilation, Adolf Hitler had pronounced openly on March 30, 1941 before the generals of the Wehrmacht:\n\nThe orientation of Operation Barbarossa as a prior planned war of annihilation proves the commands prepared according to the general guidelines cited by Hitler on 30 March 1941 before the start of the campaign, such as the Barbarossa Decree of 13 May 1941, the Guidelines for the conduct of the troops in Russia of 19 May 1941 and the Commissar Order of 6 June 1941.\n\nThe German guidelines for agricultural policy in the Soviet territories to be conquered are one of the most extreme examples of a robbery and annihilation strategy. In a meeting of the secretaries of State on May 2, 1941, the Hunger Plan prepared:\n\nThe German historian Jochen Böhler regarded the Invasion of Poland as \"prelude to the \"Vernichtungskrieg\"\" against the Soviet Union 1941.\n\nIn journalism and research, many other conflicts are also known as \"Vernichtungskrieg\".\n\nIn 1876, the German writer and historian Felix Dahn used the term for the first time in the modern sense: in his novel \"A struggle for Rome\" he let the Byzantine warlord Narses aim his campaign against Goths to Ethnic group in Italy completely utterly, i.e. lead a \"war of annihilation against their entire folklore\". \n\nAlso for the Third Punic War 149 – 146 BC, the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest or the Indian Wars of the North American settlers Find evidence that they call war of annihilation.\n\nThe ethnologist Otto Stoll wrote 1888 of a war of annihilation of the Spanish Conquistadores against the indigenous population.\n\nThe former employee of the German Military History Research Office (Germany) Joachim Hoffmann described in his book ' ' Stalin's Annihilation War ' ' (1995) the Soviet warfare against Nazi Germany as \"War of Annihilation\". He cites as the motto a speech Josef Stalin s of 6 November 1941, in which this stated:\n\nOther academics do not follow Hoffmann's interpretation of the speech, but refer to Stalin's further statements in the following months that an annihilation of Germany is by no means his goal of war. Hoffmann's work as a whole was highly critically reviewed by a majority.\n\nThere is talk of an \"unbridled War of Annihilation\" (Norbert Blüm), or its English counterpart, \"War of Extermination\", when Israel's approach is described in Middle East conflict from various sides. The \"Nazi comparison\" implied in this wording is an indication of secondary antisemitism.\n\nIn a publication of the Human Rights Centre of the University of Potsdam from the year 1998, the action of Guatemalan military in Civil War is called the \"relentless war of annihilation against one's own people.\"\n\n"}
