{"id": "302755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302755", "title": "Acute bronchitis", "text": "Acute bronchitis\n\nAcute bronchitis, also known as a chest cold, is short-term inflammation of the bronchi (large and medium-sized airways) of the lungs. The most common symptom is a cough. Other symptoms include coughing up mucus, wheezing, shortness of breath, fever, and chest discomfort. The infection may last from a few to ten days. The cough may persist for several weeks afterward with the total duration of symptoms usually around three weeks. Some have symptoms for up to six weeks.\nIn more than 90% of cases the cause is a viral infection. These viruses may be spread through the air when people cough or by direct contact. Risk factors include exposure to tobacco smoke, dust, and other air pollution. A small number of cases are due to high levels of air pollution or bacteria such as \"Mycoplasma pneumoniae\" or \"Bordetella pertussis\". Diagnosis is typically based on a person's signs and symptom. The color of the sputum does not indicate if the infection is viral or bacterial. Determining the underlying organism is typically not needed. Other causes of similar symptoms include asthma, pneumonia, bronchiolitis, bronchiectasis, and COPD. A chest X-ray may be useful to detect pneumonia.\nPrevention is by not smoking and avoiding other lung irritants. Frequent hand washing may also be protective. Treatment of acute bronchitis typically involves rest, paracetamol (acetaminophen), and NSAIDs to help with the fever. Cough medicine has little support for its use and is not recommended in children less than six years of age. Salbutamol is not effective in children with an acute cough who do not have restricted airways. There is weak evidence that salbutamol may be useful in adults with wheezing due to a restricted airway; however, it may result in nervousness, shakiness or a tremor. Antibiotics should generally not be used. An exception is when acute bronchitis is due to pertussis. Tentative evidence supports honey and pelargonium to help with symptoms.\nAcute bronchitis is one of the most common diseases. About 5% of adults are affected and about 6% of children have at least one episode a year. It occurs more often in the winter. More than 10 million people in the United States visit a doctor each year for this condition with approximately 70% receiving antibiotics, most of which are not needed. There are efforts to decrease the use of antibiotics in acute bronchitis.\n\nBronchitis may be indicated by an expectorating cough, shortness of breath (dyspnea), and wheezing. On occasion, chest pains, fever, and fatigue or malaise may also occur. In addition, bronchitis caused by Adenoviridae may cause systemic and gastrointestinal symptoms as well. However, the coughs due to bronchitis can continue for up to three weeks or more even after all other symptoms have subsided.\n\nAcute bronchitis can be caused by contagious pathogens, most commonly viruses. Typical viruses include respiratory syncytial virus, rhinovirus, influenza, and others. Bacteria are uncommon pathogens but may include \"Mycoplasma pneumoniae\", \"Chlamydophila pneumoniae\", \"Bordetella pertussis\", \"Streptococcus pneumoniae\", and \"Haemophilus influenzae\". \n\nA physical examination will often reveal decreased intensity of breath sounds, wheezing, rhonchi, and prolonged expiration. Most physicians rely on the presence of a persistent dry or wet cough as evidence of bronchitis.\n\nA variety of tests may be performed in patients presenting with cough and shortness of breath:\n\nAn oral whole cell nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae vaccine may protect against the disease, but \"the evidence is mixed\".\n\nMost cases are self-limited and resolve themselves in a few weeks.\n\nEvidence does not support the general use of antibiotics in acute bronchitis. While some evidence suggests antibiotics speed up resolution of the cough by about 12 hours there is a greater risk of gastrointestinal problems and no change in longer term outcomes. Antibiotics use also leads to the promotion of antibiotic-resistant bacteria, which increase morbidity and mortality.\n\nTo help the bronchial tree heal faster and not make bronchitis worse, smokers should quit smoking completely.\n\nAcute bronchitis usually lasts a few days or weeks. It may accompany or closely follow a cold or the flu, or may occur on its own. Bronchitis usually begins with a dry cough, including waking the sufferer at night. After a few days, it progresses to a wetter or productive cough, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, and headache. The fever, fatigue, and malaise may last only a few days, but the wet cough may last up to several weeks.\n\nShould the cough last longer than a month, some physicians may issue a referral to an otorhinolaryngologist (ear, nose and throat doctor) to see if a condition other than bronchitis is causing the irritation. It is possible that having irritated bronchial tubes for as long as a few months may inspire asthmatic conditions in some patients.\n\nIn addition, if one starts coughing mucus tinged with blood, one should see a physician. In rare cases, physicians may conduct tests to see whether the cause of the bloody sputum is a serious condition such as tuberculosis or lung cancer.\n\nAcute bronchitis is one of the most common diseases. About 5% of adults are affected and about 6% of children have at least one episode a year. It occurs more often in the winter.\n\nIn infants under one year of age, acute bronchitis was the most common reason for admission to the hospital after an emergency department visit in the US in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "56541701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56541701", "title": "Agency for Health Technology Assessment and Tariff System", "text": "Agency for Health Technology Assessment and Tariff System\n\nThe Agency for Health Technology Assessment and Tariff System (Polish: \"Agencja Oceny Technologii Medycznych i Taryfikacji\", \"AOTMiT\") is a government agency in Poland that carries out health technology assessment.\n\nThe Agency was established in 2006. It is a member of EUnetHTA.\n\n"}
{"id": "25442417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25442417", "title": "Amami Wakoen Sanatorium", "text": "Amami Wakoen Sanatorium\n\nAmami Wakōen Sanatorium, or National Sanatorium Amami Wakōen is a sanatorium for leprosy or ex-leprosy patients in Amami-shi, Kagoshima-ken, Japan starting in 1943. In 2008, there were 56 almost healthy residents and their average age was about 80 years.\n\nThe sanatorium in Amami Oshima was the last one of national sanatoriums starting with the Nagashima Aiseien Sanatorium in 1930. There was considerable resistance within the island to the establishment of a sanatorium.\n\n\nThe number of in-patients is the sum of patients which changed not only by the newly diagnosed hospitalized and those who died among in-patients, by other factors such as the number of patients who escaped or were discharged, depending on the condition of the times. Recently they were encouraged to be discharged, but the long period of the segregation policy causing leprosy stigma might influence the number of those who went into the society.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29445941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29445941", "title": "Animals and tobacco smoke", "text": "Animals and tobacco smoke\n\nAnimals are exposed to tobacco smoke and other cigarette by-products through their use as experimental subjects and through contact with smokers, as in the case of pets in houses where smoking takes place.\n\nThe first recorded attempts to artificially induce animal tumors through the application of tobacco products occurred in 1911. A 2004 series of monographs released by the International Agency for Research on Cancer, a part of the World Health Organisation, summarized research from the 1960s onwards about the carcinogenicity of tobacco on various laboratory animals.\n\nAs set out in the IARC monographs, the carcinogenicity of cigarette smoke is determined in two ways. The first is through the application of cigarette-smoke condensates to skin. Cigarette-smoke condensates are collected by passing smoke through cold traps and recovering the retained material. The cigarettes are usually machine-smoked and the material is washed from the traps using a volatile substance such as acetone, which is then removed. Many of the procedures for collecting this cigarette-smoke-condensate have not yet been standardized across laboratories, including how the condensate is stored, in what numbers and fashion the cigarettes are smoked, and the type of solvent used. Once the condensate is collected, it is painted onto the skin of the animal test subjects, which are then examined at set intervals to assess the growth of tumors.\n\nThe second method, as described by the IARC monographs, used to measure the carcinogenicity of cigarette smoke to animals is by exposing them to mainstream cigarette smoke. The IARC monographs define mainstream cigarette smoke as that which is emitted by the mouth end of the cigarette and therefore the smoke that human smokers would be exposed to most. The IARC monographs describe the methods and equipment that scientists have developed to make more effective and standardize the deliverance of mainstream cigarette smoke. These devices vary between whole-body and nose-only exposure, but typically involve machine smoked cigarette smoke being pumped into a small chamber that contains the animal test subjects. A variety of factors differentiate the experience of a human smoker from these animal test subjects'. Human smokers inhale smoke voluntarily and therefore do so more deeply than do animal test subjects which typically adopt short, shallow breaths when exposed to smoke. The animal test subjects, primarily rodents and dogs, also have significantly morphologically different upper respiratory system from humans. Despite these variables, the doses of smoke administered to these animals can be determined by examining tissue and blood samples. Dogs, which cannot be exposed to cigarette smoke via inhalation chambers as easily as can small rodents, require different methods of cigarette smoke exposure. These methods include thracheostomy, in which smoke is pumped through a tube directly into a hole cut in the dog's throat, or through a mask fitted to the dog's face.\n\nThe IARC monographs concluded that the application of cigarette-smoke condensates onto the skin of mice induces tumors, of both benign and malignant variety. Although the carcinogenicity of tobacco smoke was first established in humans, various types of animals have also been exposed to tobacco smoke inhalation in attempts to yield further experimental proof and control for various experimental factors, including types of tobacco and levels of exposure, which would be considered unethical in human studies. The IARC monographs, referencing studies which used various methods of smoke inhalation, concluded that a significantly greater number of pulmonary tumors occurred among mice exposed to smoke than those in the control groups. Since the 1960s, the animal most used in testing the carcinogenicity of tobacco smoke has been the Syrian Golden Hamster due to its resistance to pulmonary infections and the infrequency with which it spontaneously develops pulmonary tumors. According to the IARC monographs these studies have proven, and repeatedly confirmed, the carcinogenicity of tobacco smoke for hamsters.\n\nSome studies referenced in the IARC monographs found that certain, but not all, groups of rats exposed to mainstream smoke were significantly more likely to develop lung tumors. The IARC monographs also referenced studies involving rabbits and dogs that were much less conclusive. The authors, however, cited various experimental limitations, such as small test or control groups and missing data, that could account for the lack of conclusive results.\n\nMultiple studies have also been conducted to determine the carcinogenicity of environmental tobacco to animals. These studies typically fall under the categories of simulated environmental tobacco, administering condensates of sidestream smoke, or observational studies of cancer among pets.\n\nTo study the consequences of passive smoking, scientists expose animals to sidestream smoke, that which emanates from the cigarette's burning cone and through its paper, or a combination of mainstream and sidestream smoke. The IARC monographs conclude that mice with prolonged exposure to simulated second-hand smoke, that is six hours a day, five days a week, for five months with a subsequent four-month interval before dissection, will have significantly higher inicidence and multiplicity of lung tumors than with control groups.\n\nThe IARC monographs concluded that sidestream smoke condensates had a significantly higher carcinogenic effect upon mice than did mainstream smoke condensates.\n\nSecond-hand smoke is recognized as a risk factor for cancer in pets. A study conducted by the Tufts University School of Veterinary Medicine and the University of Massachusetts Amherst linked the occurrence of feline oral cancer to exposure to environmental tobacco smoke through an overexpression of the p53 gene. Another study conducted at the same universities concluded that cats living with a smoker were more likely to get feline lymphoma; the risk increased with the duration of exposure to second-hand smoke and the number of smokers in the household. A study by Colorado State University researchers, looking at cases of canine lung cancer, was generally inconclusive, though the authors reported a weak relation for lung cancer in dogs exposed to environmental tobacco smoke. The number of smokers within the home, the number of packs smoked in the home per day, and the amount of time that the dog spent within the home had no effect on the dog's risk for lung cancer.\n\nIn 1990, a tobacco-industry researcher in Germany proposed a study of the effects on animals of lifetime exposure to second-hand smoke. The proposed study was blocked by Philip Morris, as described in an internal company report:\n\nA 2008 study conducted by the Henry Ford Health System found that given information about the harmful effects of passive smoking on their pets, 28.4% of pet owners who smoke would be motivated to quit, 8.7% would ask those who live with them to quit, and 14.2% would stop smoking indoors.\n\nAnimals like dogs, cats, squirrels, and other small animals are affected not only by second-hand smoke inhalation, but also nicotine poisoning. Domestic pets, especially dogs, usually fall ill when owners leave nicotine products like cigarette butts, chewing tobacco, or nicotine gum within reach of the animal. Littered cigarette butts from smokers can be a problem for small animals which mistake them for food if they find them, particularly in urban environments. Cigarette butts are the remains of a cigarette after smoking which contain the filter which is meant to contain tar, particles, and toxins from the cigarette such as ammonia, arsenic, benzene, turpentine and other toxins.\n\nCigarette butts can be found in high quantities as litter. It can take 18 months to 10 years for the filter to degrade. Although cigarette litter awareness campaigns. encourage smokers to avoid littering and to even carry pocket ashtrays, cigarette butts rank number one on the list of worst litter problems in the U.S. This makes it easy for small animals like puppies, squirrels, and raccoons to find and unsuspectingly consume nicotine. A reported 4.5 trillion cigarette butts wind up as litter worldwide per year. Cigarette butts reportedly account for 30% of the waste items found on U.S. shorelines.\n\nThis can be a hazard to animals like seagulls and turtles because when placed in large bodies of water like oceans, the toxins of the cigarette butt can be detrimental to marine life. Researchers at San Diego State University claim that filter-tipped cigarette butts are toxic especially for marine and fresh-water fish. Even just one cigarette butt alone soaking in water for a day is hazardous enough to kill 50% of fish in a litre of water. Dolphins have the most blubber in the marine life and toxins concentrate there, thus dolphins especially are the most affected by the toxins.\n\nThe toxins of the cigarette butt can cause health problems in animals like vomiting, tremors and hypersalivation. Veterinary Medicine published a case of a 10-year-old female Labrador retriever ingesting cigarette butts. The Labrador vomited several times and had increased blood urea nitrogen, total protein, and albumin concentrations with hemolysis and lipemia also observed. Apomorphine hydrochloride and activated charcoal had to be administered along with other fluids. 5 days after the incident, the dog's health returned to normal. The toxic level of nicotine in a dog or cat is reported as 20–100 mg which is about one to five cigarettes.\n\nA newer product available in some markets, nicotine dissolvables, contains about 1 mg of nicotine per pellet. Other products like Camel Strips which contain 0.6 mg of nicotine per strip and sticks. Though this nicotine content is low in comparison to a cigarette, these items can be more attractive to unwary small animals like puppies.\n\nMuch controversy exists over animal testing especially with nicotine and tobacco products. Animal activism groups are especially vocal about claims of companies like Phillip Morris funding animal tobacco research. There has always much tension between animal activists groups, and researchers and this became especially visible with the serious attack against a researcher. Edythe D. London, a UCLA professor leading a 3-year study was targeted by activists and her home was flooded by the Animal Liberation Front. A fire-bomb was also left in front of her house by the North American Animal Liberation. After the incident Edyth London wrote an article titled \"Why I use animals in my research\". In the article, London expressed an interest in solving the problem of addiction and offering help to those who need help in quitting their tobacco addiction. She did admit to being funded by Philip Morris USA and sees no problem with it.\n\nOn the Philip Morris website the company claims that they do not presently conduct internal research with the use of laboratory animals. They do fund external research, but claim to do so in a humane and responsible manner as shown by their accreditation by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care.\n\nIn 2001, American Spirit claimed to have turned to cruelty-free cigarettes in which the company doesn't conduct cigarette testing using animals. This move was praised by animal activists groups and used to encourage other tobacco companies to follow the leadership of American Spirit.\n\nThe main argument of animal activists, besides the ethical treatment of animals, is there is no point in continuing to perform these experiments on animals to prove the detrimental effects of tobacco, which are already known. The Impact Press like claims that \"in one experiment, vivisectors cut holes in beagles' throats and made them breathe concentrated cigarette smoke for an entire year\". The group also claims that at the Oregon Regional Primate Research Center, the rhesus monkeys live in tight, metal cages and pregnant monkeys are exposed to nicotine. There is also disapproval by animal activists of a March of Dimes funded study in which nicotine was given to pregnant rats, and then the offspring were tested to see how they performed in a maze\". Groups like PETA are using slogans like \"Don't get burned by Philip Morris. They're using your money to hurt animals\". PETA also claims that there is still a question as to the reliability of results from animal testing for tobacco studies. According to an article, federal regulatory and research agencies have almost 200 test methods which guarantee effectiveness in animal studies. The Interagency Coordinating Committee on the Validation of Alternative Methods exists to review these methods. Some researchers, however, continue to argue that there are longitudinal studies of cigarette-smoking which still need to be conducted, and that animal studies are not superfluous, but necessary.\n"}
{"id": "30872197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30872197", "title": "Anthem (company)", "text": "Anthem (company)\n\nAnthem, Inc. is an American health insurance company founded in the 1940s, prior to 2014 known as WellPoint, Inc. It is the largest for-profit managed health care company in the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. It was formed when Anthem Insurance Company acquired WellPoint Health Networks, Inc., with the combined company adopting the name WellPoint, Inc.; trading on the NYSE for the combined company began under the WLP symbol on December 1, 2004. On December 3, 2014, WellPoint changed its corporate name to Anthem Inc., and its NYSE ticker changed from WLP to ANTM.\n\nAnthem Insurance Company grew out of two Indianapolis, Indiana based mutual insurance companies, Mutual Hospital Insurance Inc. and Mutual Medical Insurance Inc. formed in 1944 and 1946. The companies grew significantly, controlling 80% of the medical insurance market in Indiana by the 1970s. In 1972 they came together to create a joint operating agreement, and merged in 1985 as parent company, Associated Insurance Companies, Inc, to form Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Indiana.\n\nIn 1986 Associated Insurance Companies changed its name to The Associated Group (TAG) to reflect its expanded focus, and began heavily expanding outside Indiana, acquiring numerous insurance companies and creating new subsidiaries throughout the late 1980s through the mid-1990s.\n\nFormerly Anthem Inc. was an insurance company which began in the 1980s as a spin-off of the group insurance operations of American General Insurance.\n\nAnthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield was created as part of the merger of The Associated Group with Community Mutual Insurance Co. of Cincinnati.\n\nFrom its move to a publicly traded company in 2001 until its final merger in 2004, it merged the Blue Cross Blue Shield organizations of several states to achieve economy of scale, converting them in the process from non-profit to for-profit status. In late 2004, Anthem and WellPoint merged, with the combined company taking the WellPoint name. That Anthem no longer exists as a company, but the Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield brand name is used by WellPoint in 11 states.\nIn October 2001, Anthem demutualized and conducted an initial public offering of common stock. WellPoint, Inc. (formerly Anthem, Inc.) was formed when WellPoint Health Networks Inc. and Anthem, Inc. merged in 2004 to become the nation's leading health benefits company.\n\nWellPoint Health Network Inc.'s predecessor was Blue Cross of California, which was founded in 1982 with the consolidation of Blue Cross of Northern California (established in 1936) and Blue Cross of Southern California (established in 1937). WellPoint was formed in 1992 to operate Blue Cross of California's managed care business. In 1993, Blue Cross of California spun off its managed care business into a separate publicly traded entity, WellPoint Health Networks Inc. In 1996, Blue Cross of California completed the conversion of all its business to for-profit status, resulting in a restructuring that designated WellPoint Health Networks Inc. as the parent organization. Anthem and WellPoint achieved a portion of this growth through mergers and acquisitions.\n\nWellpoint, Inc. was formed in November 2004 following a merger of Anthem and WellPoint Health Networks Inc. The merger was structured as Anthem acquiring WellPoint Health Networks and rebranding itself WellPoint, Inc. When the deal was originally announced in October 2003, the merger was set at $16.5 billion. The fair market value of the merger when completed in December 2004 was approximately $20.8 billion. At the time of the merger's completion, WellPoint was the largest American insurer.\n\nIn December 2014: WellPoint changed its corporate name to Anthem Inc..\n\nFor the fiscal year 2017, Anthem reported earnings of US$3.843 billion, with an annual revenue of US$90.039 billion, an increase of 6.1% over the previous fiscal cycle. Anthem's shares traded at over $183 per share, and its market capitalization was valued at over US$69.1 billion in October 2018. As of 2018, Anthem is ranked #29 on the Fortune 500 rankings of the largest United States corporations by total revenue.\n\n\n\nAnthem Blue Cross is a subsidiary of insurance giant Anthem Inc.. Anthem has about 800,000 customers, and has more individual policyholders in California than any other insurer. It is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association based in Thousand Oaks, California. Wellpoint had a net income of $2.49 billion in 2008, and $4.7 billion in 2009. Leslie Margolin became Anthem Blue Cross's company president in January 2008, and also was chief executive officer of the firm’s Life and Health affiliate. Gail Boudreaux is currently chief executive officer of the company.\n\nBlue Cross of California was WellPoint Health Network Inc.'s predecessor\n\n\n\n\nIn the category of \"Meeting National Standards of Care\" California's state patient advocacy office gave Anthem a rating of 2 out of 4 stars in its 2011 annual report card. In 2014 it received 3 out of 4 stars in the same category.\n\nIn 2007, WellPoint pledged to spend $30 million over three years, through the company's charitable foundation, to help the uninsured. In March 2010, the \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that WellPoint's tax records and website showed that the company gave only $6.2 million by 2009. The company disputed that, saying that the foundation did fulfill its $30-million commitment by mid-2009, but declined to provide any financial details to support its position.\n\nIn 2007, the California Department of Managed Health Care (DMHC), a California state regulatory agency, investigated Anthem Blue Cross's policies for revoking (rescinding) health care insurance policies. The DMHC randomly selected 90 instances where Anthem Blue Cross canceled the insurance of policy holders who had been diagnosed with costly or life-threatening illnesses, to find how many of these cancellations were legal. The agency concluded that all these cancellations were illegal. \"In all 90 files, there was no evidence [that Blue Cross], before rescinding coverage, investigated or established that the applicant's omission/misrepresentation was willful,\" the DMHC report said.\n\nIn July 2008, Anthem Blue Cross agreed to a settlement with the California Department of Managed Health Care. To resolve allegations of improper policy rescissions (cancellations), WellPoint paid $10 million and reinstated 1,770 policy-holders whose plans they had cancelled. They also agreed to provide compensation for any medical debts incurred by these policy-holders in the meantime. However, WellPoint did not officially admit liability.\n\nIn April 2010, a report in Reuters alleged that Wellpoint \"using a computer algorithm, identified women recently diagnosed with breast cancer and then singled them out for cancellation of their policies.\" The story not only caused considerable public outrage, but led Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, and President Barack Obama, to call on WellPoint to end the practice.\n\nIn 2011 Anthem Blue Cross began cancelling policies of members who had been paying premiums with credit cards, sometimes without calling or emailing the member ahead of time.\n\nThe former Vice President for Public Policy and External Affairs at WellPoint, Elizabeth Fowler, is the Senior Counsel to Max Baucus, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee and a leading opponent of the public option in health care reform.\n\nIn August 2009, WellPoint’s Anthem Blue Cross unit, the largest for-profit insurer in California, contacted its employees and urged them to get involved to oppose Congress' plan for health care reform. Consumer Watchdog, a nonprofit watchdog organization in Santa Monica, asked California Atty. Gen. Jerry Brown to investigate its claim that WellPoint had illegally pushed workers to write to their elected officials, attend town hall meetings and enlist family and friends to ensure an overhaul that matches the firm’s interests. According to Consumer Watchdog, California's labor code directly prohibits coercive communications, including forbidding employers from controlling, coercing or influencing employees' political activities or affiliations. WellPoint had not been contacted by the California attorney general and had not seen any complaint.\n\nThrough 2010 and into 2011, WellPoint senior executives met monthly with executives of other major health insurers to blunt the effect of the health care reform law.\n\nIn 2009, Anthem Health Plans of Maine, a WellPoint subsidiary, sued the state of Maine for the right to increase premiums further. Since Maine licenses insurance companies through its Department of Insurance, Anthem would need the state's permission to raise rates. The Court disagreed with Anthem and found that, unlike other forms of insurance, the Maine Insurance Code does not require the Superintendent to consider profits at all.\n\nIn February 2010, WellPoint announced that some Anthem Blue Cross individual policies in California would see a rate increase as high as 39%. This announcement resulted in an investigation by the US Federal and California government regulators. Because of this, Anthem Blue Cross gained worldwide media attention and became a poster child for the problem of rising US health costs, when it announced that it was raising rates on some individual policy holders by as much as 39% as of March 2010. The rate increase came one year after Anthem had raised rates 68% on individual policy holders. This announcement resulted in an investigation by the US Federal and California government regulators.\n\nTo explain the latest rate increases, some which were four times the rate of medical inflation, Anthem said the company has experienced a death spiral, as unemployment and declining wages led healthy customers to drop their insurance, the remaining risk pool becomes sicker and more expensive to insure, and, in turn, prices are forced up and push more people out of the market.\n\nIn response to the outrage from politicians and consumers, Anthem postponed the rate increase until May 1, 2010.\nGiven Anthem’s rate increase plans, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democratic Senator of California, has proposed giving the federal government authority to block insurance premium hikes considered to be \"unjustified\".\n\nOn 17 March 2010, WellPoint announced it was reclassifying some of its administrative costs as medical care costs in order to meet new loss ratio requirements under the health care law, which requires insurers to spend at least 80% or 85% of customer premiums on health care services, depending on the type of plan.\n\nIn June 2010, Anthem sent letters to 230,000 customers in California warning them that their personal data might have been accessed online. After a routine upgrade in October 2009, a third-party vendor stated that all security measures had been properly reinstated, when in fact they had not. As a result, personal information of thousands of coverage applicants who were under the age of 65 was exposed in the open. After a Los Angeles-area woman found that her application for coverage was publicly available, she filed a class-action lawsuit against Anthem. While gathering evidence for the proceeding, the woman's lawyers downloaded some confidential customer information from Anthem's website and alerted Anthem about the breach. According to the lawyers, confidential information had remained out in the open for five months.\n\nIn May 2014, Anthem Blue Cross refused to pay for the hospitalization of a Sonoma County, California man for stage four cancers, although he had paid Anthem over $100,000.00 in premiums. Anthem ended up paying for coverage following public outcry.\n\nOn February 4, 2015, Anthem, Inc. disclosed that criminal hackers had broken into its servers and potentially stolen over 37.5 million records that contain personally identifiable information from its servers. According to Anthem, Inc., the data breach extended into multiple brands Anthem, Inc. uses to market its healthcare plans, including, Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Amerigroup, Caremore, and UniCare. Healthlink says it was also a victim. Anthem says the medical information and financial data was not compromised. Anthem has offered free credit monitoring in the wake of the breach. According to Bloomberg News, China may be responsible for this data breach. Michael Daniel, chief adviser on cybersecurity for President Barack Obama, said he would be changing his own password. According to \"The New York Times\" about 80 million company records were hacked, and there is fear that the stolen data will be used for identity theft. On February 7, 2015 Elizabeth Weise wrote in \"USA Today\" that the compromised information contained names, birthdays, medical IDs, social security numbers, street addresses, e-mail addresses and employment information, including income data.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11984365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11984365", "title": "Are the Kids Alright?", "text": "Are the Kids Alright?\n\nAre the Kids Alright? is a documentary film which explores mental health care for children and youths at risk in Texas. The filmmaker, Ellen Spiro, gained unprecedented access to troubled children and their families, as well as the judicial, psychiatric and correctional institutions. By following several different families, the filmmakers document the results of the decline in the availability of mental health services for the youth who most desperately need it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3698189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3698189", "title": "Beeline (beekeeping)", "text": "Beeline (beekeeping)\n\nBeelining (also known as bee lining, bee hunting, and coursing bees) is an ancient art used to locate feral bee colonies. It is performed by capturing and marking foraging worker bees, then releasing them from various points to establish (by elementary trigonometry) the direction and distance of the colony's home. Beeliners generally have homemade capture boxes which aid them in their quest.\n\nBeelining was formerly a serious occupation in Appalachia where it was a means to obtain honey as a sweetener, and sometimes to capture wild colonies for domestication. When a hollow tree (gum) was found, it often was sawed above and below the colony and carried back to be set up as a kept hive near home. Honey was harvested from such colonies by \"sulphuring,\" (using burning sulfur) to kill the insects.\n\nFeral hives in the USA are uncommon since the arrival of varroa mites in the 1980s, and may represent an important, though small, pool of genetic resistance to the mites. Their value as potential breeding stock may far outweigh the value of their honey.\n\n"}
{"id": "21788931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21788931", "title": "Benenden Health", "text": "Benenden Health\n\nBenenden Health (formerly The Post Office Sanatorium Society) is a mutual society in the UK providing private medical cover. Its membership consists of over 800,000 individuals and employees of corporate schemes provided by them. Benenden Health has been the shirt sponsor of York City Football Club since the 2012–13 season.\n\nThe Post Office Sanatorium Society was founded in 1905 to help working class Post Office employees control the tuberculosis epidemic when conventional medical insurance was not widely affordable. The business model of weekly member fees was proposed by a Post Office clerk, Charles Garland.\n\nIn 1923 the name became The Post Office and Civil Service Sanatorium Society, as the membership was opened to a new industry. In October 1990, the registered office moved from London to York. \"Ahead of its Time\", a film about Benenden Health's history was made by Trafalgar Productions in 2011.\n\nIn June 2012, delegates at Benenden Health's annual conference in Manchester voted to remove the last of its membership eligibility criteria, meaning that any United Kingdom resident aged 16 and over can now join Benenden Health. Also in June 2012, Benenden Health became shirt sponsor of York City Football Club.\n\nIn January 2013, 'Benenden Healthcare Society' rebranded with new trading style 'benenden health'. Due to the rebrand, the society also enabled a free mid-season shirt swap with York City Football Club.\n\nIn June 2013, Benenden Health was voted UK's 'most trusted' private healthcare provider for the third year running in the Moneywise Most Trusted awards. As of January 2018, it has been voted for this award for seven years running.\n\nAs of 2015, the organisation was trading as 'Benenden'.\n\nIn 2017, Benenden Health was voted 'Most trusted health insurance provider via employer' in the Moneywise Customer Service Awards.\n\nIn early 2018, the society rebranded as Benenden Health.\n\nBenenden Health has recently added further products beyond healthcare, including travel and home insurance. Benenden Health relaunched a Health Cash Plan for its members in 2017.\n\nSatisfaction surveys vary from a 2017 in-house survey where 4 out of 5 existing members said they'd recommend the organisation (from 1,208 reviews) to its own Facebook page reviews section. The company was awarded a 1 star rating in a Best Companies survey in 2015/16 and achieved the status of 'one to watch' in 2017.\n\nBenenden Hospital was founded in 1907 in Benenden, Kent and became the centre for hospital treatment for members of Trade Unions and Friendly Societies and subsequently large numbers of public sector employees who joined what is now Benenden Health.\n\nThe services provided at the hospital have moved with the times. From treatment for tuberculosis - which was its original role - to the management of chest diseases, to the current day where the hospital provides a wide range of consultation, diagnosis and treatment services for most medical and surgical specialties.\n\nIn recent years the hospital has increasingly taken patients who are not members of Benenden Health. Local National Health Service agencies are increasing their use of the hospital's facilities, as are patients who use private medical insurance or who pay directly for their own hospital care. The hospital provides a range of clinical services which are tailored to meet the needs of individual patients. The hospital has a Modern Matron – a senior and experienced professional – who has the authority to resolve problems. It was rated outstanding by the Care Quality Commission in May 2017. 22% of its activity is now commissioned by the NHS, mostly orthopaedic, gynaecology and ophthalmology surgery for adults.\n\n"}
{"id": "16797425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16797425", "title": "British Restaurant", "text": "British Restaurant\n\nBritish Restaurants were communal kitchens created in 1940 during the Second World War to help people who had been bombed out of their homes, had run out of ration coupons or otherwise needed help. In 1943, 2,160 British Restaurants served 600,000 very inexpensive meals a day. They were disbanded in 1947. There was a political dimension as well, as the Labour Party saw them as a permanent solution to equalising consumption across the class line and guaranteeing a nourishing diet to the poor.\n\nOriginally called 'Community Feeding Centres', the name British Restaurants was chosen by the Prime Minister, Winston Churchill. They were set up by the Ministry of Food and run by local government or voluntary agencies on a non-profit basis. Meals were sold for a set maximum price of 9d (equivalent to just under 4p, about US$2 or £1 GBP in purchasing power 2008) or less. No-one could be served with a meal of more than one serving of meat, game, poultry, fish, eggs, or cheese. In one in ten restaurants the meals were prepared at central depots. Schools were often used because they had cafeterias and kitchens. In London, mobile canteens delivered meals to air raid shelters and on the street in the aftermath of air raids.\n\nBy contrast, ordinary private restaurants continued in operation and were not subject to rationing. They did have some restrictions: for instance, no meal could be more than three courses and the maximum price was five shillings (equivalent to $10 or £5 in buying power by 2008). \n\nBy mid-1941, over two hundred British Restaurants operated in the London County Council area, although the Wartime Social Survey conducted in 1942–43 indicated they were more popular in London than in the rest of the country. In November 1942 there were 1,899 restaurants. By 1943, there were some 2,160 British Restaurants across the country, serving around 600,000 meals per day for around 9d a time. 546 authorities made profits and 203 made losses, though they were set up to be not-for-profit.\n\nSome smaller places did not qualify for a British Restaurant, but, instead, had what was termed a \"Cash and Carry Restaurant\" with meals being delivered from a nearby British Restaurant.\n\nThe ministry's dieticians prepared food based upon regional preferences and health. For example, the food served in Scotland was very different from that served in London due to the taste preferences of the inhabitants. Health was also a concern for BRs, as they were supposed to provide diners with \"one third of the day's energy needs\". The dieticians were especially concerned with Vitamin C intake. Due to the war efforts and rationing, fruit intake was extremely limited. Vegetables such as cabbage, which has a high percentage of Vitamin C, were implemented as a staple vegetable in BRs, in order to provide diners with beneficial nutrients. There was concern that, with mass catering, vitamins such as Vitamin C would be destroyed in the food sources.\n\nThe food in British Restaurants was said to be filling and of good quality. For 9d, customers could get a three-course meal. Traditionally, customers wanted a meal of meat and two vegetables. Most BRs served choices of five meat dishes, five vegetables, and five desserts. BRs in more populated areas had even more options. Popular dishes included roasts and potatoes, which acted as a substitute for bread. The foods served in British Restaurants could be prepared in large quantities, which made them good options for feeding an abundance of people. The preparation of food in BRs was industrialised, which also helped with inexpensive, commercial food preparation. For example, volunteers sliced potatoes with machines, rather than by hand.\n\nAfter 1947 some restaurants were converted, under the Civic Restaurants Act, into civic restaurants run by the local council. In 1949, 678 still existed throughout the United Kingdom. The restaurants moved beyond the privations of wartime and into the new world of a Labour government making many changes to the social fabric of the country. The Labour Minister of Food, John Strachey, noted that \"private enterprise in the catering trade has, on the whole and by and large, catered for the middle class and not for the working class.\"\n\nIf a civic restaurant operated at a loss for three consecutive years the act provided that ministerial consent would be needed for it to continue to remain open. These restaurants existed at least into the mid-1950s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52355862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52355862", "title": "Cannabis in Belgium", "text": "Cannabis in Belgium\n\nCannabis in Belgium is illegal, but personal possession has been decriminalized since 2003; adults over the age of 18 are allowed to possess up to 3 grams.\n\nIn June 2015, Maggie De Block signed a royal decree legalizing certain uses of medical cannabis, which as of 2015 only include Sativex oral spray for multiple sclerosis.\n"}
{"id": "52356217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52356217", "title": "Cannabis in Slovenia", "text": "Cannabis in Slovenia\n\nCannabis in Slovenia is illegal but decriminalized. While medical marijuana is not allowed, the use of certain cannabinoid drugs is permitted.\n\nIn 2012, a proposal was drafted to decriminalize medical cannabis, but it failed to obtain the necessary support. A new proposal was drafted in 2013, which succeeded in gaining enough public support. As a result, the Slovenian government re-classified cannabinoids as Class II illegal drugs (from the original Class I), thus allowing for the medical use of cannabinoid drugs but not medical marijuana.\n\nThe possession of any drug for personal use in small quantities is not registered as a criminal act in Slovenia, but it is instead a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of 42-210€ or up to 5 days of jail. It is in this sense that it is considered \"decriminalized\". This can be reduced further if the offender agrees to undergo treatment. This policy is similar to the one in force in Portugal.\n"}
{"id": "11262255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11262255", "title": "Charles W. Sexton", "text": "Charles W. Sexton\n\nCharles W. Sexton, Machinery Technician First Class, USCG, was awarded a posthumous award of the Coast Guard Medal for \"extraordinary heroism.\"\n\nSexton died during the rescue of fishermen stranded off the treacherous Columbia River bar.\n\nA Coast Guard Motor Lifeboat Crew had proceeded to the fishing trawler \"Sea King\" in \"motor lifeboat 44381\", because the trawler had lost power off the Columbia bar, and was taking on water. Sexton had helped treat a wounded fisherman, had helped bring over portable pumps to pump out the trawler, when the trawler unexpectedly turned over. Two of the trawler's crew, and the Coast Guardsmen, were thrown into the Ocean, and were eventually rescued, but Sexton and two other crew members were trapped in the vessel's pilot house, and drowned.\n\nHis award citation stated: \nPetty Officer SEXTON is cited for extraordinary heroism on 11 January 1991 while serving as emergency medical technician aboard Coast Guard Motor Lifeboat CG-44381. The boat crew was responding to a distress call from F/V SEA KING, a 75-foot stern trawler with four persons on board, which was taking on water and in danger of sinking, four nautical miles northwest of the Columbia River Bar, with her decks awash and after compartment and engine room steadily filling up with water. From the relative safety the motor lifeboat, Petty Officer SEXTON unselfishly volunteered to go aboard the foundering fishing vessel to treat the injuries of a SEA KING crew member who had fallen to the deck boat during a failed helicopter hoist. He skillfully diagnosed the victim’s injuries, informed the flight surgeon of the extent of the injuries and provided first aid treatment. Once the victim was stabilized, Petty Officer SEXTON turned his attention to assisting with the dewatering of the vessel. The SEA KING required several dewatering pumps to remove the initial quantity of sea water from the engine room. Then, hourly dewatering of the vessel was necessary to maintain proper trim aboard the vessel. After more than 6 hours of this exhausting routine, with the worst of the treacherous bar crossing behind them, the SEA KING suddenly, without warning, rolled over, throwing victims into the churning seas and trapping Petty Officer SEXTON in the enclosed pilot house. He went down with vessel, sacrificing his life while attempting to save the lives of the SEA KING’s crew members. Petty Officer SEXTON demonstrated remarkable initiative, exceptional fortitude, and daring in spite of imminent danger in this rescue. His courage and devotion to duty are most heartily commended and are in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Coast Guard.\nThe first barracks new Coast Guard recruits stay at, upon their arrival at the Coast Guard training depot in Cape May, New Jersey, is named \"Sexton Hall\", in his honor.\nRecruits stay there during their orientation, prior to their assignment to a training unit.\n\nUpon arriving to recruit basic training in Cape May, New Jersey, recruits spend their first three nights in \"Sexton Hall\" for forming, and before being put into a company. Named after Charles W. Sexton, there are tributes to him within the barracks.Sexton Hall is also the residence of recruits discharged before completion of recruit training awaiting orders home (whether for medical or disciplinary reasons).\n\nThe Coast Guard's National Motor Lifeboat School where Sexton was stationed at the time of his death, named the maintenance building in his honor. A bronze relief plaque is displayed at the building entrance to remind staff and students of his ultimate sacrifice.\n\nIn 2010, when the Coast Guard decided that all the new Sentinel class cutters would be named after Coast Guard personnel who had been recognized for their heroism, Sexton was one of those to be honored.\nThe 8th cutter in the class will be named the USCGC \"Charles Sexton\". She will be homeported in Key West, Florida.\n\nA 154' USCG Sentinel-Class Fast Response Cutter that bears his name was commissioned in Key West, FL on March 8, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40887862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40887862", "title": "Chemical phosphorus removal", "text": "Chemical phosphorus removal\n\nJefferson Lendeh\n\nChemical phosphorus removal is a wastewater treatment method, where phosphorus is removed using salts of aluminum (e.g. alum or poly-aluminum chloride), iron (e.g. ferric chloride), or calcium (e.g. lime). Phosphate forms precipitates with the metal ions and is removed together with the sludge in the separation unit (sedimentation tank, flotation tank, etc.).\n\n"}
{"id": "13231872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13231872", "title": "Christopher Barden", "text": "Christopher Barden\n\nR. Christopher \"Chris\" Barden (born 1954) Ph.D., J.D., L.P. is a scientist, clinical psychologist and attorney who lives in Edina, Minnesota. He served as the director of the National Association for Consumer Protection In Mental Health Practices (NACPMHP) from 1995-2005. In 2005, the NACPMHP merged into the Commission for Scientific Medicine and Mental Health (CSMMH), a national health care consumer protection agency whose members include physicians, scientists and researchers.\n\nBarden was educated at the Institute for Child Development at the University of Minnesota, receiving his B.A. Summa Cum Laude, Distinguished Graduating Senior Award, in 1976. He attended graduate school at the University of California in Berkeley, the University of Minnesota, and the Palo Alto V.A./Stanford University Medical Center, where he interned, receiving his Ph.D. in Child and Adult Clinical Psychology in 1982. He later attended Harvard Law School in Cambridge, Massachusetts, receiving his J.D. cum laude in 1992. He became a licensed psychologist in Texas in 1984 and in Minnesota in 1988. He has been a licensed Minnesota attorney since 1992, and a certified Minnesota mediator since 1994.\n\nR. Chris Barden, Ph.D., J.D., L.P. has worked as a scientist, psychologist, attorney, and expert witness. Barden has published in or edited journals and texts in child psychology, social psychology, clinical psychology, sports psychology, psychiatry, surgery, pediatrics, and law. He has testified as an expert witness in psychology, law, and scientific methodology in multiple federal and state courts. Barden has also helped draft and enact successful national health care legislation mandating reforms in the U.S. Emergency Medical System for Children. Barden has applied a multidisciplinary, litigation-policy team approach to institute reforms in the U.S. emergency medical, legal, and mental health systems. In 2006, Barden drafted an \"amicus curiae\" brief to the California Supreme Court signed by nearly 100 international experts in the fields of human memory, neuroscience, psychiatry, and psychology emphasizing the lack of credible scientific support for \"repressed and recovered memories.\n\nPsychiatric Malpractice Cases Regarding \"Repressed Memory Therapy\" and \"Multiple Personality Disorder\"\n\nBarden has participated as an attorney, consultant, and expert witness in multiple malpractice lawsuits against therapists, and has spoken out against therapies such as “repressed and recovered memory therapies,” “rebirthing therapies” and “holding therapies.”\n\nConsultant: Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Attorneys Office,and Office of the Federal Public Defender\nState Prosecution Expert Witness, Colorado\nState Prosecution Expert Consultant, Washington\nState Prosecution Expert Witness, Texas\nState Prosecution Expert Consultant, Wisconsin\nState Office of the Public Defender (MN, WI, UT)\nInvited Training Speaker, American Bar Association \nInvited Training Speaker, American Psychological Association \nInvited Training Speaker, U.S. Surgeon Generalâ€™s Conference\nInvited Training Speaker, U.S. Military Academy, West Point, New York \nInvited Speaker at Harvard, Yale, Columbia, UC Berkeley, U of MN, U of TX, U of IA, U of GA, USC, SMU, Penn State, U of NC, etc \nSpecial Asst. Attorney General, State of Utah\nMember, Minnesota State Board of Psychology \nMember, Minnesota Higher Education Coordinating Board\nIntern, Harvard Medical School/Law School Forensic Program \nIntern, Attorney Generalâ€™s Office, State of Massachusetts\nConsultant to a number of states regarding Mental Health Professional Licensing Bd.Actions\n\nBarden represented V. Hamanne in her suit against her former psychiatrist, Diane Humenansky, for implanting false memories of child abuse using “repressed memory therapy.” Expert witnesses Dr. Elizabeth Loftus and Dr. Richard Ofshe testified that repressed memory therapy was unsupported by scientific evidence and dangerous. The jury awarded Hamanne $2.6 Million for pain and suffering, lost earnings, and medical expenses. Dr. Humenansky license was later suspended.\n\nBarden also represented E. Carlson in her suit against Dr. Humenansky for using “repressed memory therapy.\n\nBarden represented P. Burgess in her malpractice suit against Dr. Bennett Braun. Burgess claimed that Braun’s use of repressed memory therapy and his diagnosis of “multiple personality disorder” caused them severe emotional, psychological, and financial harm. The case was settled in 1997 for a record $10.6 Million. A wave of international media attention from this case—including a page 1, col. 1 story in the NYTimes—was instrumental in subsequent mental health reforms.\n\n\"REBIRTHING THERAPY\": Barden joined forces with the national media as well as prosecutors and legislators in Colorado to end “rebirthing therapy” in the U.S. \"It's easily the most reckless and abusive treatment of a child I've ever seen,\" said Christopher Barden, a psychologist and lawyer who specializes in psychotherapy abuse cases. Barden testified for Jefferson County prosecutors in their criminal case against Evergreen therapists Connell Watkins and Julie Ponder. The pair are charged in connection with the April 18 rebirthing session that killed Candace Newmaker, a 10-year-old adopted girl from North Carolina.” ; See, Janofsky, M. Girl's Death Brings Ban on Kind of 'Therapy'. New York Times. April 18, 2001; Peggy Lowe, Rebirthing team convicted: Two therapists face mandatory terms of 16 to 48 years in jail, Rocky Mountain News, April 21, 2001.\n\nCOERCIVE \"HOLDING THERAPY\": Barden was appointed Special Assistant Attorney General in Utah to assist in the prosecution of “coercive attachment” therapists. Joint litigation and legislative efforts closed the clinic and ended these practices. See, Santini, J., Legislative Panel Backs Measure That Would Ban 'Holding Therapy', The Salt Lake Tribune, September 20, 2002, Friday, at Pg. A10. \"Before voting to support the measure, the Child Welfare Oversight Panel on Thursday considered testimony from Christopher Barden, an expert in child psychology, who called coercive therapy \"quackery.\" \"These therapists really believe they are helping people,\" Barden said, \"just like lobotomizers believed they were helping people.\" The bill Barden co-authored and supported (HB05) to ban abusive practices passed the Utah House of Representatives by a 68-2 margin.\n\nOn April 28, 2010, Barden announced that he would seek the Republican Party of Minnesota's endorsement for Attorney General of Minnesota. He received that endorsement at the party's state convention on April 29, 2010, and lost his challenge to incumbent Attorney General Lori Swanson in the November 2010 general election.\n\nBarden is a Latter-day Saint and served as a bishop in the Lake Nokomis Ward in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Barden has four children with his wife Robin Jones. They currently reside in suburban Minneapolis.\n\n"}
{"id": "3365349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3365349", "title": "Diet for a New America", "text": "Diet for a New America\n\nDiet for a New America is a 1987 bestselling book by John Robbins. The book discusses vegetarianism, the environmental impact of factory farming and animal rights.\n\nIn 1991 KCET, the Los Angeles PBS affiliate, produced a film documentary based on the book called \"Diet for a New America: Your Health, Your Planet\". The film is narrated by John Robbins and features interviews with Michael Klaper, T. Colin Campbell, and John A. McDougall.\n\nColman McCarthy and Cleveland Amory compared the book to Rachel Carson's \"Silent Spring\". In an editorial for \"The Washington Post\" and \"Finger Lakes Times\" McCarthy writes: \"Robbins has written a book that is the pioneering match of Aldo Leopold's \"Sand County Almanac\", John Rawls' \"A Theory of Justice\", and Rachel Carson's \"Silent Spring\".\"\n\nMarian Burros of \"The New York Times\" writes: \"Much of what Mr. Robbins has to say about diet in this country is unremarkable: we eat too much meat and dairy products. Much of what Mr. Robbins has to say about the inhumane treatment of animals on factory farms is correct. But Mr. Robbins undermines his case by exaggerating; facts mix with factoids and anecdotes.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2110699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2110699", "title": "Doctor of Physical Therapy", "text": "Doctor of Physical Therapy\n\nIn the United States a Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) degree is now an entry level professional degree. A DPT is a practitioner who is educated in many areas of rehabilitation. However, a Doctor of Physical Therapy is not a medical doctor and can't prescribe medications in some countries like the United Kingdom. A Transitional Doctor of Physical Therapy Degree is also offered for those who already hold a professional Bachelor or Master of Physical Therapy (BPT or MPT) degree. As of 2015, all accredited and developing physical therapist programs are DPT programs. The DPT degree currently prepares students to be eligible for the PT license examination in all 50 states. Along with the license examination, some states do require physical therapists to take a law exam and a criminal background check. As of March 2017, there are 222 accredited Doctor of Physical Therapy programs in the United States. After completing a DPT program the doctor of physical therapy may continue training in a residency and then fellowship. As of December 2013, there are 178 credentialed physical therapy residencies and 34 fellowships in the US with 63 additional developing residencies and fellowships. Credentialed residencies are between 9 and 36 months while credentialed fellowships are between 6 and 36 months.\n\nIn 2000 the American Physical Therapy Association (APTA) passed its \"Vision 2020\" statement, which states (in part):\n\nAs this statement highlights, the DPT program is an integral part of the APTA's continued advocacy for legislation granting consumers (\"i.e.\" patients and clients) direct access to physical therapists, rather than requiring physician referral. Direct access is said to decrease wait times for access to care and even help reduce both cost to consumer and overall healthcare costs. As of January 1, 2015, all 50 states and the District of Columbia currently allow some form of direct access to physical therapists.\n\nIn 1992, the University of Southern California initiated the first post-professional \"transitional\" (DPT) program in the United States. This \"transitional\" DPT takes into account a physiotherapist's current level of knowledge and skill and purports to offer programs that upgrade clinical skills to meet the needs of the current health care environment. Creighton University followed by initiating the first entry-level DPT program in 1993.\n\nThe Doctor of Physiotherapy has since been adopted in other countries such as the United Kingdom, Australia and Taiwan. In the United Kingdom and Australia the PhD or Professional Doctorate in Physiotherapy is offered by a number of Universities. These programmes are usually professional entry masters level programmes with the opportunity to undertake research to lead to a doctorate degree. Alternatively, these programmes are masters pre-qualifying Physiotherapy courses with an enhanced research element in the final phase of the course that leads to undertaking a doctorate. The first full pre-qualifying Doctorate in Physiotherapy programme in the United Kingdom was accredited in 2017 at Glasgow Caledonian University in Glasgow.\n\nThe typical time frame for completion of a Doctor of Physical Therapy is 3 to 4 years after earning a bachelor's degree. Depending on residency and fellowship training, if undertaken, the doctor may have completed several years of additional training. Obtaining a DPT could also be done by accelerated programs offered by some universities that can be applied to by freshman. These programs give students the opportunity receive a bachelor's degree and DPT in 6- to 7- years.With these programs, there are various admission points over the course of their curriculum. Various programs allow students to apply directly out of high school and they will automatically matriculate into the professional phase of the program after completing the required undergraduate courses.\n\nAdmission to a Doctor of Physical Therapy program in the USA is highly competitive. According to the Aggregate Program Data Report from CAPTE from 2016-2017, the average GPA for enrolling students was 3.6 with a range of 3.10 - 3.88 for all programs. On average there were 500 applicants per program with an average of 46 students enrolled A bachelor's degree generally is required before beginning a Doctor of Physical Therapy program, but there is no requirement on the degree earned, as long as all prerequisite course requirements are met. Obtaining a DPT could also be done by accelerated programs by some universities that can be applied by freshman. Through these programs students can receive a bachelor's degree and a DPT in 6- to 7- years. During the admission process into schools, one must fulfill the course prerequisites of the program. Students also must obtain physical therapy experience from clinics with hours that might have to be verified by a physical therapist depending on the school they are applying to. The Graduate Record Examination(GRE) must be taken and submitted to the school.\n\nThe t-DPT degree is conferred upon completion of a structured postprofessional educational experience that results in the augmentation of knowledge, skills, and behaviors to a level consistent with the current professional (entry-level) DPT standards. The t-DPT degree enables the US-licensed physical therapist to attain degree parity with therapists who hold the professional DPT by filling in any gaps between their professional baccalaureate or master's degree PT education and the current professional DPT degree education.\n\nThe post-professional DPT (Transitional) degree is designed to provide the doctoral credential to those who currently holding a master's or bachelor's degree in the field. Post-professional DPT (Transitional) degree programs are typically offered on a primarily online learning model and are often one year in length.\n\nThe use of the title \"doctor\" by physical therapists and other non-physician health care professionals is controversial. In a letter to \"The New York Times\", the president of the American Physical Therapy Association responded:\n\nThe DPT degree has been described as an example of \"credential creep\" or degree inflation in \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\". Citing concerns that the DPT, and similar professional doctorates in areas such as occupational therapy, do not meet the standards of traditional doctorate degrees, the journal states: \"The six-and-a-half-year doctor of physical therapy, or DPT, is rapidly replacing a six-year master's degree ... The American Physical Therapy Association ... has not set separate requirements for doctoral programs. To be accredited they need only to meet the same requirements as master's programs.\"\n\nCritics question whether the rigor of the physical therapy curriculum and the current scope of practice warrant the conferral of a professional degree similar to that characteristic of medicine, dentistry, or nursing. Proponents counter that the existing curricula are \"victims of 'curricular inflation'.\" As Rothstein and Moffat noted, the previous master's and even baccalaureate curricula rival that of most other doctoral programs, and these curricula often require more than the typical 72 credits mandated for a doctoral degree. The 2000 Fact Sheet from APTA reported that the mean number of credits required for the professional phase of the typical baccalaureate program was 83.0 credits and that the typical master's degree program required 95.5 credits. As of 2009 the typical number of prerequisite credits was 114.2 and the total number of professional credits was 116.5 for a total of 230.7 credit hours. This is well in excess of the typical 72 professional credits mandated for a doctoral degree. Additional credit hours may be earned in residency and fellowship as well. Threlkeld et al. suggest that the scope of existing physical therapy curricula already matches that of a professional doctorate, further submitting that students of a well-defined DPT program will have earned the right to be recognized with the doctoral title.\n\nThe professional (entry-level) DPT degree is currently the degree conferred by all physical therapist professional programs upon successful completion of a three- to four-year post-baccalaureate degree program in the United States, preparing the graduate to enter the practice of physical therapy. Admission requirements for the program include completion of an undergraduate degree that includes specific prerequisite coursework, volunteer experience (or other exposure to the profession), and completion of a standardized graduate examination (e.g., GRE).\n\nTypical prerequisite courses may include two semesters of anatomy and physiology with labs, two semesters of physics with labs, two semesters of chemistry with labs, a general course in psychology, another course in psychology, statistics, two semesters of biology, and may include other courses required by specific schools.\n\nThe physical therapist curriculum consists of foundational sciences (i.e., gross anatomy, cellular histology, embryology, neurology, neuroscience, kinesiology, physiology, exercise physiology, pathology, pharmacology, radiology/imaging, medical screening), behavioral sciences (communication, social and psychologic factors, ethics and values, law, business and management sciences, clinical reasoning and evidence-based practice), and clinical sciences (cardiovascular/pulmonary, endocrine and metabolic, gastrointestinal and genitourinary, integumentary, musculoskeletal, neuromuscular). Coursework also includes material specific to the practice of physical therapy (patient/client management model, prevention, wellness, and health promotion, practice management, management of care delivery, social responsibility, advocacy, and core values). Additionally, students have to engage in full-time clinical practice under the supervision of licensed physical therapists with an expectation of providing safe, competent, and effective physical therapy.\n\nPost-graduation, licensed physical therapists have the ability to pursue a clinical residency or fellowship to expand their knowledge and experience. Clinical residencies are designed to further a physical therapy resident's knowledge in a specific area of clinical practice. A clinical fellowship is a program for physical therapists in an area of the specific focus.\n\nPhysical therapists also have the ability to pursue speciality certifications, where they become board certified clinical specialists. Becoming a certified specialist allows the therapist to earn credentials that represents further dedication to patient care. It gives the opportunity for professional growth and positions in leadership and service. This specialization is done by building a broad foundation of professional education then building a skillset related to the particular specialization area. The certifications given in the specific areas are: cardiovascular and pulmonary, clinical electrophysiology, geriatrics, neurology, orthopedics, pediatrics, sports physical therapy, and women's health.\n\nPhysical therapists can provide various modalities of treatment for the patient. The modalities include: ultrasound, electrical stimulation, traction, joint mobilization, massage, heat, ice, kinesiology taping, and many more. Forms of treatment depends on the therapists preference of treatment and the clinics equipment availability. Based on the patient, specific types of treatment might be better suited. Therapists might also find different modalities not as effective as others. However, some modalities might not be possible due to the clinics restrictions on space and equipment availability.\n\nThe \"advanced clinical science\" doctorate (e.g., DPTSc or DScPT, DHSc, ScDPT) is one of several degrees conferred by academic institutions upon successful completion of a post-professional physical therapist education program. This program is intended to provide an experienced clinician with advanced knowledge, clinical skills, and professional behavior, usually in a specific specialty practice area. These programs typically culminate work that contributes new knowledge to clinical practice in the profession. Completion of these advanced clinical science doctoral programs may include credentialed clinical residencies and lead to ABPTS clinical specialization or other advanced certifications.\n\nGlasgow Caledonian University in Glasgow is the first in the United Kingdom to offer a 3.5 year Doctorate in Physiotherapy (pre-registration) programme which is the first clinical doctorate which leads to qualification as a Physiotherapist eligible to register with the CSP and HCPC in the United Kingdom. This programme provides a focus on researcher development as well as professional development within a health and social care context. Some UK universities offer a DPT as a post-professional qualification, but the qualifying degree remains Bachelor or Master of Science in Physiotherapy (with honours). This is offered at the University of Sussex in Brighton, Nottingham University and Robert Gordon University.\n\n"}
{"id": "54252099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54252099", "title": "Elma Sandford-Morgan", "text": "Elma Sandford-Morgan\n\nElma Sandford-Morgan (23 February 1890 – 1983) was an Australian physician who practised medicine in India and Iraq during the 1920s.\n\nElma Linton Sandford (later Mrs Sandford-Morgan) was born in Adelaide, South Australia in 1890. Her father, Alexander Wallace Sandford, a businessman and politician, died in 1905. She was educated at a number of girls schools, before entering Cheltenham Ladies College in 1905. Her mother supported her decision to study medicine, and Sandford enrolled at the University of Sydney in 1910. She graduated with her M.D. in 1917.\n\nSandford was appointed a resident medical officer at the Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children in Sydney, and she then became senior medical registrar at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital. She travelled to England in 1919 to study ophthalmology at the London hospitals. It was there that she heard about the urgent need for doctors in India to combat eye disease. She worked for a year at the Bhiwani Mission Women's Hospital around 1920, before taking a position in Baghdad at a hospital for women and children. It was in Baghdad, that she met British Army Officer Harry Morgan, and they were married in 1921. She worked in private practice in Baghdad until their daughter, Rosemary was born in 1922.\n\nThe Sandford-Morgans returned to Australia in 1923, and Dr Sandford-Morgan worked mainly in private practice, or for the Public Health Service in Hobart and Sydney. Their son, Gavin was born in 1925. Captain Morgan and Dr Sandford-Morgan separated, and she moved to Adelaide with their children around 1937. She was a director and developer of a Mothercraft training school. At a meeting of the Australian Federation of University Women in 1938, comments she made about women graduates and motherhood, made the national newspapers.\n\nSandford-Morgan assisted the Royal Australian Air Force Medical Service during World War II. She was appointed to a parliamentary commission investigating health services in South Australia at the close of the war. She wished to take up a position in Europe, and accepted a role as a medical officer at the Commonwealth Immigration camp in New South Wales. However, the transfer that was offered with this role to a European practice, was denied her as a woman. She resigned and sought employment on her own.\n\nSandford-Morgan returned to private practice in Australia, and then worked as a neoplasm registrar at the Anticancer Foundation of the University of Adelaide. She continued working until the age of 74 and thereafter volunteered at the Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service until she was 80.\n\nSandford-Morgan was President of the Medical Women's Society of South Australia.\n\nElma Sandford-Morgan died in 1983. She was survived by her children. She is remembered for her pioneering work as a doctor.\n"}
{"id": "3050422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3050422", "title": "Empiric therapy", "text": "Empiric therapy\n\nEmpiric therapy or empirical therapy is medical treatment or therapy based on experience and, more specifically, therapy begun on the basis of a clinical \"educated guess\" in the absence of complete or perfect information. Thus it is applied before the confirmation of a definitive medical diagnosis or without complete understanding of an etiology, whether the biological mechanism of pathogenesis or the therapeutic mechanism of action. The name shares the same stem with \"empirical evidence\", involving an idea of practical experience. \n\nEmpiric antimicrobial therapy is directed against an anticipated and likely cause of infectious disease. It is used when antimicrobials are given to a person before the specific bacterium or fungus causing an infection is known. Fighting an infection sooner rather than later is important to minimize morbidity, risk, and complications for serious infections like sepsis and suspected bacterial meningitis. \n\nEmpiric antimicrobial therapy is typically broad-spectrum, in that it treats both a multitude of either Gram-positive and/or Gram-negative bacteria, diverse fungi or parasites respectively. When more information is known (as from a blood culture), treatment may be changed to a narrow-spectrum antimicrobial which more specifically targets the bacterium or fungus known to be causing disease. Empiric antimicrobial therapy is a fairly sophisticated process which includes considering data such as a person's age, immune status, comorbidities, likelihood for a certain microbial etiology and pre-test probability for antimicrobial resistance prior to therapy, risk of bad outcomes, and to name a few.\n\nThe advantage of indicating antibiotics empirically exists where a causative pathogen is likely albeit unknown and where diagnostic tests will not be influential to treatment. In this case, there may be little if any perceived benefit of using what may be costly and inconclusive tests that will only delay treatment of the same antibiotics. The empirical use of broad-spectrum antibiotics increases, by selection, the prevalence of bacteria resistant to several antibiotics. However, the delay and expense that would be required to perform definitive species identification in every single clinical case are not affordable, so some degree of trade-off is accepted on the principle of the benefits outweighing the risk.\n\nAnother much less common sense of the term \"empiric therapy\" involves quackery, and \"empiric\" as a noun has been used as a synonym of \"quack\". \n\nThis sense applies when the amount of guessing involved by the clinician transcends so far beyond science that the standard of care is not upheld. Whereas prescribing a broad-spectrum antibiotic to fight a clinically apparent infection as early as possible is entirely prudent and scientific despite the absence of confirmatory cultures, prescribing magic rituals or pseudoscientific schemes is not.\n\nThe fact that \"acting on practical experience in the absence of theory or complete knowledge\" can have both legitimate and illegitimate forms stretches back to long before science existed. For example, in the era of ancient Greece, when medical science as we now know it did not yet exist, all medicine was unscientific and traditional; theories of etiology, pathogenetic mechanism, and therapeutic mechanism of action were based on religious, mythologic, or cosmologic ideas. For example, humorism could dictate that bloodletting was indicated for a certain disorder because a supposed excess of water could be rebalanced. However, because such theories involved a great deal of fanciful notions, their safety and efficacy could be slim to negative. In the example of bloodletting to correct excess water, the fact that fluid balance is a legitimate physiologic concern didn't mean that the then-state-of-the-art \"understanding\" of causation was well founded overall. In this environment where mainstream medicine was unscientific, a school of thought arose in which theory would be ignored and only practical results would be considered. This was the original introduction of empiricism into medicine, long before medical science would greatly extend it. \n\nHowever, by the late 19th and early 20th centuries, as biological and medical science developed, the situation had reversed: because the state of the art in medicine was now scientific medicine, those physicians who ignored all etiologic theory in favor of only their own experience were now increasingly quackish, even though in the era of religion-based or mythology-based medicine (the era of medicine men) they might have been, as viewed through today's hindsight, admirably rational and in fact protoscientific. Thus as science became the norm, unscientific and pseudoscientific approaches qualified as quackery.\n\nIn the 21st century, the next phase of differentiation on this topic is underway. all clinical practice based on medical science is therefore based on empirical evidence to a large degree, but efforts are underway to make sure that \"all\" of the science on any given medical topic is consistently applied in the clinic, with the best portions of it graded and weighted more heavily. This is the latest cycle in which personal experience (even expert opinion with scientific basis) is not considered good enough by itself. Thus, in evidence-based medicine, the goal is that every clinician will make decisions for every patient with total mastery and critical analysis of the entire scientific literature at their fingertips. This is a formidably vast goal to implement operationally (because it is not even possible for one person to master all extant biomedical knowledge on the basis of individual education), but development of health information technology such as expert systems and other artificial intelligence in medicine is underway in pursuit of it. In the meantime, until the day when the reality begins to approximate the ideal, it is duly recognized that expert opinion and clinical judgment are still necessary in clinical practice, because their premature banishment, before their eventual replacement has been fully prepared, amounts to scientism.\n\n"}
{"id": "51898025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51898025", "title": "Erie Stone", "text": "Erie Stone\n\nErie Stones or are rocks used in First Nations (Native American) traditional medicine. Francois Gendron, the French Jesuit surgeon at Sainte-Marie among the Hurons mission, first described its use in the 1640s in letters later published in 1660. Gendron described the sources of these stones as being at the base of Niagara Falls and that a local Native American group settled there and traded this item to other First Nations communities. The ointment created from this rock was said to help the healing of \"wounds, fistulas and malignant ulcers\".\n\nExactly what the rock was that this ointment was made from has been open to debate since Gendron first described it. He described the rock as a yellowish salt formed from the petrification of foam formed at the foot of Niagara Falls. There is also debate among historians whether he actually visited the area to collect samples or was supplied with them and a description of their location from Native American traders.\n\nJury and Jury interpreted Gendron’s description as describing calcareous tufa, a rock formed by precipitation from supersaturated limestone deposits. Hunter, however, identified it with aragonite, a crystalline form of calcium carbonate, with inclusion of magnesium sulphate and calcium sulphate. Hunter was able to collect samples from below Niagara Falls in 1982. According to him the mineral forms by the seepage of slightly acidic rain water through limestone formation in the Niagara gorge, most notably the dolostone formation near the top of the Niagara Escarpment. This seepage causes carbonate minerals to dissolve out of the dolostone changing them to a bicarbonate form. Below the dolostone the Rochester Shale is impenetrable to the seeping water causing it to flow horizontal and emerge and run down the rock face of the gorge. Some of this water evaporates leaving a layer of calcium carbonate and aragonite on the rock face. In some areas the accumulation is not much more than a thin film but in others areas he notes it can be four or five centimeters thick.\n"}
{"id": "27363576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27363576", "title": "Flexibility (personality)", "text": "Flexibility (personality)\n\nFlexibility is a personality trait that describes the extent to which a person can cope with changes in circumstances and think about problems and tasks in novel, creative ways. This trait is used when stressors or unexpected events occur, requiring a person to change their stance, outlook, or commitment. Flexible personality should not be confused with cognitive flexibility, which is the ability to switch between two concepts, as well as simultaneously think about multiple concepts. Researchers of cognitive flexibility describe it as the ability to switch one's thinking and attention between tasks. Flexibility, or psychological flexibility, as it is sometimes referred to, is the ability to adapt to situational demands, balance life demands, and commit to behaviors.\n\nDue to the different facets of the definition of psychological flexibility, there are many problems when measuring it. There are multiple questionnaires that attempt to do so.\n\nThe Acceptance and Action Questionnaire (AAQ) was developed in order to measure experiential avoidance. This test found that higher levels of avoidance were linked to higher levels of general psychopathology, depression, anxiety, fears, and a lower quality of life. It also measured avoidant coping and self-deceptive positivity. It was later decided that the AAQ actually measured psychological flexibility, not experiential avoidance. It was used until the AAQ-II was created.\nThe AAQ-II was developed in order to improve upon the faults of the AAQ. The original AAQ had faults in scale brevity, item wording, and item selection procedures that caused insufficient alpha levels to be obtained in measurements. The AAQ-II scores were found to predict many outcomes, including mental health and work absence rates. The AAQ-II also was found to be more psychometrically consistent than the original AAQ.\nLaboratory measures of flexibility are consistent with how flexible people are in their actual lives. Flexibility measured in laboratory settings even predicted how flexible people will be in real life. More recently however, the validity of the AAQ has again been brought into question, primarily by inconsistent results. Recent studies have shown that both versions of the AAQ appear to measure the same thing, which is neuroticism/negative affect rather than experiential avoidance.\n\nResearch has shown that the relationship between parent and child distress may be influenced by parenting psychological flexibility. When parents are psychologically inflexible they cause more stress in their families. A similar study looked at the longitudinal relationship between perceived parenting style and psychological flexibility among students over six years (7th–12th grade). Results showed that psychological flexibility decreased with age, illustrating that as children grow older they become more set in their thoughts and habits, being less likely to change them due to circumstances. Results also indicated that authoritarian parenting styles predicted low psychological flexibility in children. This demonstrates that parents who over-control their children tend to restrict how well their children cope with stressors in life. Lastly, results showed that children with psychological flexibility in 9th grade were more likely to have decreases in authoritarian and increases in authoritative parenting style later on. Authoritative parenting styles seem to be associated with psychological flexibility in children. Authoritative parents tend to be more warm, fair, and encouraging than other parenting styles which may be why children raised by this style have more psychological flexibility. The children are encouraged to be independent and are supported, so they are able to adjust to situations that do not go as predicted.\n\nPsychological flexibility has been found to improve mental health and absence rates. A mediating variable is job control, which suggests that people feel they have more psychological flexibility when they have more control over their jobs. This is likely due to workers feeling less restricted by what they are allowed to do and more empowered to solve a problem. A longitudinal study on psychological flexibility and job control showed that these variables predicted workers' mental health, job performance, and even their ability to learn new software. The study demonstrates the power of psychological flexibility in the workplace as psychologically flexible workers have better mental health and job performance. Allowing workers more job control would likely increase work productivity as it would increase the workers' psychological flexibility. In leadership studies, flexibility, defined as \"the ability to get along with different groups and adapt to the demands of many organizations,\" is one aspect of portability, or the ability to acquire skills and move from one company to the next.\n\nThe ability to cope and be flexible was positively associated with improved psychological health. Flexibility reduced depression, anxiety, and stress. An in-depth experiment analyzed the relationship between difficulty identifying and describing feelings (DIDF) and psychological flexibility for men undergoing cancer screenings. Results showed that DIDF and psychological flexibility were reliable predictors of mental health. However, psychological flexibility only predicted mental health when DIDF was involved. Psychological flexibility allowed participants to have a better understanding of the subtleties of pleasant and unpleasant emotions. This understanding allowed participants to identify and describe their feelings better, thus enhancing their mental health.\n\nA 2 year longitudinal study found that psychological flexibility helps with long-term emotional adjustment. People who are better at enhancing and suppressing their expression of emotions are less likely to be stressed over time. People with higher psychological flexibility are also able to have greater endurance, higher pain tolerance, and a quicker recovery rate to baseline levels when experiencing physical pain.\n\nImprovements can be made to psychological flexibility through training, such as through various forms of psychotherapy.\n\nThe main goal of acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) is to increase psychological flexibility. ACT is a form of therapy that aims to help people accept unavoidable events, identify actions that will lead to goals, and acknowledge thoughts rather than accepting or disregarding them. When psychological flexibility was targeted in one study of ACT, there was a stronger reduction in psychological distress. There are six core processes in ACT interventions: acceptance, cognitive defusion, self as context, being present, values, and committed action.\n\n\"Acceptance\" is taught in order to teach people to embrace their emotions, rather than trying to get rid of them. An example of acceptance would be when people feel angry and then choose to focus on the anger and accept that they are angry, rather than trying to unleash their anger to get rid of it. \"Cognitive defusion\" teaches people to not take their thoughts as literal in order to decrease the believability of negative thoughts and increase flexibility to behave as they want. An example of cognitive defusion would be when someone thinks \"I am the worst,\" and then notices the thought for what it is—mere words—perhaps by saying to themselves \"I am having the thought that I am the worst\". This is in contrast to a cognitive therapy approach where the person might challenge the thought by thinking of things in which he or she excels.\n\n\"Self as context\" attempts to have people create an awareness of their own experiences without being attached to them. This process is done in order to help people let go of specific content and experience themselves. \"Being present\" teaches people to directly experience the world by paying attention to the moment and being aware. An example of being present would be meditation and mindfulness. \n\"Values\" teaches people to take actions for chosen qualities. An example of this is somebody who chooses to continue to improve on being a father (chosen quality) by reliving painful childhood memories about how his own father parented him (action). The purpose is not to encourage pain, but rather to allow people to deal with pain for a valued choice, such as being a good father). Lastly, \"committed action\" teaches people to make changes in behavior in order for them to reach chosen qualities. Committed action involves identifying psychological barriers that will interfere with short, medium, and longer term goals and then working through those barriers in order to reach the goals.\n\n"}
{"id": "56918409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56918409", "title": "Fuad Sami Haddad", "text": "Fuad Sami Haddad\n\nFuad Sami Haddad (; March 31, 1924 – October 9, 2015) was a neurosurgeon, humanitarian, and writer. He was born in Beirut and spent most of his life in Lebanon.\n\nHaddad was born in Beirut's Ain El Mraiseh neighborhood. He was raised between here and the Haouz Sa'atyeh (حوز سعتيه) neighborhood. His mother, Lamia Morcos (1896–1994) raised Haddad along with his five siblings. The son of Sami Ibrahim Haddad, a doctor and writer, Haddad's dreams did not fall far from the proverbial tree.\n\nHe attended primary school at the Collège Protestant Français from 1928 to 1935 and secondary school at the International College of Beirut. He received both his Bachelor of Arts in 1944 and his M.D. in 1948 from the American University of Beirut. Haddad subsequently completed his surgical residency at the Orient Hospital.\n\nHe then began his neurosurgery residency under Wilder Penfield at the Montreal Neurological Institute on July 1, 1950. There, he completed fellowships in neuropathology, neuro-anatomy, and electroencephalography. He returned to Lebanon in 1955 as \"the first neurosurgeon certified by the American Board of Neurological Surgery to practice in the Middle East and... the entire Arab world.\"\n\nIn 1956, he married Aida Nasir, and together they raised six children of their own: Georges, Souheil, Fadi, Nabih, Labib, and Janane—two of whom are practicing neurosurgeons.\n\nUpon his return to Lebanon, Haddad joined the faculty at the American University of Beirut and served the university until 2012. All the while, he kept a private practice where he \"received patients from the Gulf States, Saudi Arabia, the Levant, North Africa, Turkey, and Iran.\" \n\nThe Lebanese Civil War began in 1975, making it difficult for American University of Beirut students to pursue a medical residency in the United States of America. Even before this era, Haddad saw a need and filled it with a neurosurgical residency program that remains successful to this day. Furthermore, on November 24, 1963, Haddad and his brother, Farid Haddad, were the founding members of the Lebanese Chapter of the American College of Surgeons. Both contributions to organized medicine in Lebanon marked great successes for practicing and future doctors who survived the war. Even during wartime, Haddad remained in Beirut as the only neurosurgeon serving the 450-bed American University Medical Center. \"On a memorable spring weekend in 1976, he had to perform 13 craniotomies in a row for craniocerebral wounds. For 60 long hours he stood in the operating room mending the brain wounds of those unfortunate casualties.\" \n\nNear the end of the war, Haddad was able to serve as a visiting professor in schools such as the University of Chicago, the University of Iowa, the Cleveland Clinic, the University at Albany, SUNY, and the University of Arkansas.\n\nHaddad retired on February 1, 2012.\n\nIn 1988, Haddad was invited to address the 38th Annual Meeting of the Congress of Neurological Surgeons on the state of neurosurgery in the Middle East.\n\nHaddad explains the differences in disease, as tuberculosis ravaged much of Iran while it was far less prominent, and therefore a lower diagnostic priority, in the United States. Additionally, Haddad addresses differences in societal stability, since he had spent much of his career working under fire during the Lebanese Civil War. He notes how the absence of telephone communication and electricity (at times for two to three weeks) made surgeries and post-operative care exceptionally difficult.\n\nHaddad then shares that there exist more Lebanese surgeons in Sao Paolo, Brazil than in Lebanon. Lastly, to defend his reasons for staying in Lebanon while healthcare providers fled, he leaves no room for doubt that his heart, and hands, are dedicated to the people of Lebanon. He finishes his address with a story and a firm commitment to the people of Lebanon:\n\nA further example is that of a veiled woman who entered my empty office on one of the worse days of the fighting. I wondered what brought her to me when everybody else, including my own secretary, was looking for shelter from bombs and snipers. Said she, ‘Doctor, I know these are trying days and everything is scarce. I have baked a few loaves of bread and thought you and your family might do with some of them.’ Indeed we had gone without bread for 3 or 4 days, with a family of six children. She offered me three loaves and left. She had walked over 5 miles to bring this bread to me. As long as there are people like these in Lebanon, I will stay to serve them, no matter what the price is, and I am confident that, like the phoenix who rose from his ashes, Lebanon will and shall rise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54676673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54676673", "title": "Gonadotropin insensitivity", "text": "Gonadotropin insensitivity\n\nGonadotropin insensitivity includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20502323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20502323", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Canada", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Canada\n\nHIV/AIDS was first detected in Canada in 1982. In 2014, there were approximately 75,500 (range between 63,400 and 87,600) people living with HIV/AIDS (a prevalence of 212 per 100,000) in Canada. This represents a 9.7% increase from the estimated 68,800 at the end of 2011. It was estimated that 16,020 persons were living with undiagnosed HIV at the end of 2014, representing 21% of all people living with HIV in Canada at that time. Mortality has decreased due to medical advances against HIV/AIDS, especially highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART).\n\nWomen have accounted for 27% of new cases and now make up 20% of all cases.\n\nHIV/AIDS prevalence is increasing most rapidly amongst aboriginal Canadians, with 9% of new infections in 2005. \n\nA three-country study of HIV diagnoses between 1999 and 2008 showed higher HIV rates from heterosexual contact among aboriginals, especially women, than non-aboriginal people. This suggested a widening epidemic beyond conventional risk groups among aboriginals. The same study showed much higher rates of HIV diagnoses among aboriginal people in Canada than in Australia and New Zealand.\n\nThe Canadian government created the Federal Initiative to Address HIV/AIDS in Canada to provide funding for prevention and support programmes to assist vulnerable people as well as research, surveillance, public awareness and evaluation. The Federal Initiative is coordinated through Health Canada, the Public Health Agency of Canada, the Canadian Institutes of Health Research and Correctional Service Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "54267025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54267025", "title": "Helen Riaboff Whiteley", "text": "Helen Riaboff Whiteley\n\nHelen Riaboff Whiteley (1921-1990) was a microbiologist who spent most of her research career at the University of Washington. \n\nWhiteley was born in 1921 to Russian parents in Harbin, China. The family immigrated to the United States in 1924, first settling in Washington and later moving to California. Whiteley studied microbiology at the University of California, Berkeley, where she received her B.S. in 1941. She then earned a master's degree from the University of Texas, Galveston and her Ph.D. from the University of Washington, where her husband Arthur Whiteley was at the time an assistant professor of zoology. After graduating in 1951, Whiteley returned to California and spent two years working for the United States Atomic Energy Commission.\n\nWhiteley returned to the University of Washington in 1953 and became a full professor in 1965. She held several leadership roles with the American Society for Microbiology, chairing its division of physiology and its publications board; she served as the society's president in 1976. Whiteley also chaired a committee for collaboration in microbiology research between scientists in the US and the Soviet Union.\n\nWhiteley's research focused on the physiology of bacteria. She is best known for work with colleague Ernest Schnepf studying insecticidal proteins (known as Cry proteins) foud in the bacterium \"Bacillus thuringiensis\". This work laid the foundation for genetically modified organisms that transgenically express insecticidal proteins.\n\nWhiteley met her husband Arthur as a student at Berkeley. He held a professorship at the University of Washington when she began her Ph.D. research there. Her research and success at earning research funding have been credited with prompting the university to revise its rules against employing both members of a married couple as faculty.\n\nHelen died in 1990 at age 69. Years later, Arthur founded the Helen Riaboff Whiteley Center in her honor, which is located at the Friday Harbor Laboratories and is designed as a working retreat for scientists, scholars and artists. Arthur died after a brief illness in 2013 at age 96.\n"}
{"id": "2256996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256996", "title": "Jazzercise", "text": "Jazzercise\n\nJazzercise is a dance fitness franchise company founded by Judi Sheppard Missett in 1969 and headquartered in Carlsbad, California, United States. \n\nJazzercise combines dance, strength, and resistance training with popular music for a full-body workout. The company currently has over 8,300 franchisees worldwide in 32 countries.\n\nJudi Sheppard Missett created Jazzercise in Chicago, Illinois in 1969 as a student at Northwestern University. She was teaching at a dance studio and noticed her classes had high dropout rates. Realizing students were attending for physical fitness and not to become highly technically proficient in dance, Shepard Missett began to hold \"just for fun\" classes that began with a jazz warmup. These classes were eventually renamed \"Jazzercise.\"\n\nSheppard Missett's family moved to Carlsbad, California, where she taught classes in local rec centers. Jazzercise quickly took off in San Diego and Sheppard Missett trained new instructors herself. Many of those first instructors were in military families, so as they moved around the country, and the world, new populations were continually introduced to the program. Initially using VHS videos, Sheppard Missett was able to train franchisees from a distance and began to sell franchise rights for Jazzercise studios across the country.\n\nIn Ron Howard's live-action movie adaptation of \"How the Grinch Stole Christmas,\" the Grinch's schedule has an hour booked for Jazzercise.\n\nIn the episode of \"Taxi\" entitled \"Louie Goes Too Far\", Andy Kaufman (playing Vic Ferrari) suggests to Christopher Lloyd (playing Jim) that he take up Jazzercise as a way of meeting beautiful women.\n\nOn \"The Golden Girls\", Bea Arthur (Dorothy) admits taking up Jazzercise in the episodes \"The Stan Who Came to Dinner\" and \"The Audit\".\n\nIn the \"Futurama\" episode \"Parasite Lost\", the parasitic worms are seen Jazzercising Fry's muscles.\n\nThe \"Flight of the Conchords\" episode \"New Zealand Town\" of their second television series features a song called \"Fashion is Danger\", which is a parody of 1980s music and style, and contains a reference to Jazzercise.\n\n\"Jazzercise Instructor\" is featured as a job in \"The Sims 2\".\n\nIn the third series of \"The Mighty Boosh\", Howard Moon goes to Jazzercise classes.\n\nIn the \"Glee \"episode \"Bad Reputation\", a tape is found of Sue Sylvester Jazzercising to Olivia Newton-John's \"Physical\". In the following season's episode \"Sexy\", Holly Holliday is shown teaching a jazzercise class in which Will Schuester participates.\n\nIn the ABC hit show \"The Goldbergs\", Beverly Goldberg is frequently portrayed referencing or stepping to Jazzercise.\n\nOn the October 9, 2012 episode of \"The Daily Show\", Jon Stewart references Jazzercise in his opening monologue.\n\nIn 2018 alone, Jazzercise has been featured in \"People\" magazine, \"Harper's Bazaar\", and the Netflix series \"GLOW\"\n\n"}
{"id": "608434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=608434", "title": "Lactotropic cell", "text": "Lactotropic cell\n\nA lactotropic cell (also known as prolactin cell, epsilon acidophil, lactotrope, lactotroph, mammatroph, mammotroph) is a cell in the anterior pituitary which produces prolactin in response to hormonal signals including dopamine which is inhibitory and thyrotropin-releasing hormone which is stimulatory. Other regulators include oxytocin, estrogen and progesterone.\n\nProlactin is involved in the maturation of mammary glands and their secretion of milk in association with oxytocin, estrogen, progesterone, glucocorticoids, and others. Prolactin has numerous other effects in both sexes.\n\nProlactin cells are acidophilic by hematoxylin & eosin stains and comprise about 20% of all cells in the anterior pituitary gland. If these cells undergo neoplastic transformation, they will give rise to a prolactinoma, a prolactin-secreting pituitary adenoma.\n\n"}
{"id": "583726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=583726", "title": "Larry Kramer", "text": "Larry Kramer\n\nLarry Kramer (born June 25, 1935) is an American playwright, author, film producer, public health advocate, and LGBT rights activist. He began his career rewriting scripts while working for Columbia Pictures, which led him to London where he worked with United Artists. There he wrote the screenplay for the 1969 film \"Women in Love\" (1969) and earned an Academy Award nomination for his work. Kramer introduced a controversial and confrontational style in his novel \"Faggots\" (1978), which earned mixed reviews and emphatic denunciations from elements within the gay community for Kramer's one-sided portrayal of shallow, promiscuous gay relationships in the 1970s.\n\nKramer witnessed the spread of the disease later known as Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) among his friends in 1980. He co-founded the Gay Men's Health Crisis (GMHC), which has become the world's largest private organization assisting people living with AIDS. Kramer grew frustrated with bureaucratic paralysis and the apathy of gay men to the AIDS crisis, and wished to engage in further action than the social services GMHC provided. He expressed his frustration by writing a play titled \"The Normal Heart\", produced at The Public Theater in New York City in 1985. His political activism continued with the founding of the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power (ACT UP) in 1987, an influential direct action protest organization with the aim of gaining more public action to fight the AIDS crisis. ACT UP has been widely credited with changing public health policy and the perception of people living with AIDS (PWAs), and with raising awareness of HIV and AIDS-related diseases. Kramer has been a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize for his play \"The Destiny of Me\" (1992), and he is a two-time recipient of the Obie Award.\n\nThe younger of two children, Kramer was born in Bridgeport, Connecticut, and considered an \"unwanted child\" by his Jewish parents, an attorney and a social worker. When the family moved to Maryland they found themselves in a much lower socioeconomic bracket than that of Kramer's high school peers. Kramer had become sexually involved with a male friend in junior high school, but he dated girls in high school . His father wanted him to marry a woman with money and thus pressed him to become a member of Pi Tau Pi, a Jewish fraternity.\n\nKramer enrolled at Yale University in 1953, where he had difficulty adjusting. He felt lonely, and earned lower grades than those to which he was accustomed. He attempted suicide by an overdose of aspirin because he felt like he was the \"only gay student on campus\". The experience left him determined to explore his sexuality and set him on the path to fight \"for gay people's worth\". The next semester, he had an affair with his German professor – his first requited romantic relationship with a man. When the professor was scheduled to study in Europe, he invited Kramer to accompany him, but Kramer opted not to go.\n\nYale had been a family tradition: Kramer's father, older brother Arthur, and two uncles were alumni. Kramer enjoyed the Varsity Glee Club during his remaining time at Yale, and he graduated in 1957 with a degree in English.\n\nAccording to Kramer, every drama he has written derives from a desire to understand love's nature and its obstacles. Kramer became involved with movie production at age 23 by taking a job as a Teletype operator at Columbia Pictures, agreeing to the position only because the machine was across the hall from the president's office. Eventually, he won a position in the story department reworking scripts. His first writing credit was as a dialogue writer for \"Here We Go Round the Mulberry Bush,\" a teen sex comedy. He followed that with the 1969 Oscar-nominated screenplay \"Women in Love\", an adaptation of D. H. Lawrence's novel. He next penned what Kramer calls \"the only thing in my life I'm ashamed of,\" the 1973 musical remake of Frank Capra's \"Lost Horizon\", a notorious critical and commercial failure whose screenplay was based very closely on Capra's film. Kramer has said that his well-negotiated fee for this work, skillfully invested by his brother, made him financially self-sufficient.\n\nKramer then began to integrate homosexual themes into his work, and tried writing for the stage. He wrote \"Sissies' Scrapbook\" in 1973 (later rewritten and retitled as \"Four Friends\"), a dramatic play about four friends, one of whom is gay, and their dysfunctional relationships. Kramer called it a play about \"cowardice and the inability of some men to grow up, leave the emotional bondage of male collegiate camaraderie, and assume adult responsibilities\". The play was first produced in a theater set up in an old YMCA gymnasium on 53rd Street and Eighth Avenue called the Playwrights Horizons. Live theater moved him to believing that writing for the stage was what he wanted to do. Although the play was given a somewhat favorable review by \"The New York Times\", it was closed by the producer and Kramer was so distraught that he decided never to write for the stage again, later stating, \"You must be a masochist to work in the theater and a sadist to succeed on its stages.\"\n\nKramer next wrote \"A Minor Dark Age\", though it failed to be produced. Frank Rich, in the foreword to a Grove Press collection of Kramer's less-known works, wrote that \"dreamlike quality of the writing is haunting\" in \"Dark Age\", and that its themes, such as the exploration of the difference between sex and passion, \"are staples of his entire output\" that would portend his future work, including the 1978 novel \"Faggots.\"\n\nIn 1978, Kramer delivered the final of four drafts of a novel that he wrote about the fast lifestyle of gay men of Fire Island and Manhattan. In \"Faggots\", the primary character was modeled on himself, a man who is unable to find love while encountering the drugs and emotionless sex in the trendy bars and discos. He stated his inspiration for the novel: \"I wanted to be in love. Almost everybody I knew felt the same way. I think most people, at some level, wanted what I was looking for, whether they pooh-poohed it or said that we can't live like the straight people or whatever excuses they gave.\" Kramer researched the book, talking to many men, and visiting various establishments. As he interviewed people, he heard a common question: \"Are you writing a negative book? Are you going to make it positive? ... I began to think, 'My God, people must really be conflicted about the lives they're leading.' And that was true. I think people were guilty about all the promiscuity and all the partying.\"\n\nThe novel caused an uproar in the community it portrayed; it was taken off the shelves of the Oscar Wilde Memorial Bookstore — New York's only gay bookstore — and Kramer was banned from the grocery store near his home on Fire Island. Reviewers found it difficult to believe that Kramer's accounts of gay relationships were accurate; both the gay and mainstream press panned the book. On the reception of the novel Kramer says, \"The straight world thought I was repulsive, and the gay world treated me like a traitor. People would literally turn their back when I walked by. You know what my real crime was? I put the truth in writing. That's what I do: I have told the fucking truth to everyone I have ever met.\" \"Faggots\", however, became one of the best-selling gay novels of all time.\n\nIn 2000, Reynolds Price wrote that the novel's lasting relevance is that \"anyone who searches out present-day responses on the Internet will quickly find that the wounds inflicted by \"Faggots\" are burning still\". Although Kramer was rejected by the people he thought would be laudatory, the book has never been out of publication and is often taught in gay studies classes. \"\"Faggots\" struck a chord,\" wrote Andrew Sullivan, \"It exuded a sense that gay men could do better if they understood themselves as fully human, if they could shed their self-loathing and self-deception...\"\n\nInitially, while living on Fire Island in the 1970s, Kramer had no intention of getting involved in political activism. There were politically active groups in New York City, but Kramer notes the culture on Fire Island was so different that they would often make fun of political activists: \"It was not chic. It was not something you could brag about with your friends ... Guys marching down Fifth Avenue was a whole other world. The whole gestalt of Fire Island was about beauty and looks and golden men.\"\n\nHowever, when friends he knew from Fire Island began getting sick in 1980, Kramer became involved in gay activism. In 1981, although he had not been involved previously with gay activism, Kramer invited the \"A-list\" (his own term) group of gay men from the New York City area to his apartment to listen to a doctor say their friends' illnesses were related, and research needed to be done. The next year, they named themselves the Gay Men's Health Crisis (GMHC) and became the primary organization to raise funds for and provide services to people stricken with Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) in the New York area. Although Kramer served on its first board of directors, his view of how it should be run sharply conflicted with that of the rest of its members. While GMHC began to concentrate on social services for men who were dying, Kramer loudly insisted they fight for funding from New York City. Mayor Ed Koch became a particular target for Kramer, as did the behavior of gay men, before the nature of how the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) was transmitted was understood.\n\nWhen doctors suggested men stop having sex, Kramer strongly encouraged GMHC to deliver the message to as many gay men as possible. When they refused, Kramer wrote an essay entitled \"1,112 and Counting\", printed in 1983 in the \"New York Native\", a gay newspaper. The essay discussed the spread of the disease, the lack of government response, and apathy of the gay community.\nThe essay was intended to frighten gay men and anger them to the point where they would respond to government indifference. Michael Specter writes in \"The New Yorker\", \"it was a five-thousand-word screed that accused nearly everyone connected with health care in America – officials at the Centers for Disease Control, in Atlanta, researchers at the National Institutes of Health, in Washington, doctors at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, in Manhattan, and local politicians (particularly Mayor Ed Koch) – of refusing to acknowledge the implications of the nascent AIDS epidemic. The article's harshest condemnation was directed at those gay men who seemed to think that if they ignored the new disease, it would simply go away.\n\nKramer's confrontational style proved to be an advantage, as it earned the issue of AIDS in New York media attention that no other individual could get. He found it a disadvantage when he realized his own reputation was \"completely that of a crazy man\". Kramer was particularly frustrated by bureaucratic stalling that snowballed in cases where gay but closeted men were the ones in charge of agencies that seemed to ignore AIDS. He confronted the director of a National Institute of Health agency about not devoting more time and effort toward researching AIDS because he was closeted. He threw a drink in Republican fundraiser Terry Dolan's face during a party and screamed at him for having affairs with men but using the fear of homosexuality as a reason to raise money for conservative causes. He called Ed Koch and the media and government agencies in New York City \"equal to murderers\". Even Kramer's personal life was affected when he and his lover – also a board member on GMHC – split over Kramer's condemnations of the political apathy of GMHC.\nKramer's past also compromised his message, as many men who had been turned off by \"Faggots\" saw Kramer's warnings as alarmist, displaying negative attitudes toward sex. Playwright Robert Chesley responded to his \"New York Native\" article, saying, \"Read anything by Kramer closely, and I think you'll find the subtext is always: the wages of gay sin are death\". The GMHC ousted Kramer from the organization in 1983. Kramer's preferred method of communication was deemed too militant for the group.\n\nAstonished and saddened about being forced out of GMHC, Kramer took an extended trip to Europe. While visiting Dachau concentration camp he learned that it had opened as early as 1933 and neither Germans nor other nations did anything to stop it. He became inspired to chronicle the same reaction from the American government and the gay community to the AIDS crisis by writing \"The Normal Heart\", despite having promised never to write for the theater again.\n\n\"The Normal Heart\" is a play set between 1981 and 1984. It addresses a writer named Ned Weeks as he nurses his lover, who is dying of an unnamed disease. His doctors are puzzled and frustrated by having no resources to research it. Meanwhile, the unnamed organization Weeks is involved in is angered by the bad publicity Weeks' activism is generating, and eventually throws him out. Kramer later explained, \"I tried to make Ned Weeks as obnoxious as I could ... I was trying, somehow and again, to atone for my own behavior.\" The experience was overwhelmingly emotional for Kramer, as at one time during rehearsals he watched actor Brad Davis hold his dying lover played by D. W. Moffett on stage; Kramer went into the bathroom and sobbed, only moments later to find Davis holding him. The play is considered a literary landmark. It contended with the AIDS crisis when few would speak of the disease afflicting gay men, including gays themselves; it remains the longest-running play ever staged at the Public Theater, running for a year starting in 1985. It has been produced over 600 times in the U.S., Europe (where it was televised in Poland), Israel, and South Africa. Actors following Davis who portrayed Kramer's alter ego Ned Weeks included Joel Grey, Richard Dreyfuss (in Los Angeles), Martin Sheen (at the Royal Court in London), Tom Hulce and then John Shea in the West End, Raul Esparza in a highly acclaimed 2004 revival at the Public Theater, and most recently Joe Mantello on Broadway at the Golden Theater. Upon seeing the production of \"The Normal Heart\", Naomi Wolf commented, \"No one else on the left at that time ... ever used the moral framework that is so much a part of Kramer's voice, and that the right has coopted so skillfully. Conscience, responsibility, calling; truth and lies, clarity of purpose or abandonment of one's moral calling; loyalty and betrayal ...\"\n\nIn a review for \"The New York Times\", Frank Rich said:\nHe accuses the governmental, medical and press establishments of foot-dragging in combating the disease—especially in the early days of its outbreak, when much of the play is set—and he is even tougher on homosexual leaders who, in his view, were either too cowardly or too mesmerized by the ideology of sexual liberation to get the story out. \"There's not a good word to be said about anyone's behavior in this whole mess\", claims one character—and certainly Mr. Kramer has few good words to say about Mayor Koch, various prominent medical organizations, \"The New York Times\" or, for that matter, most of the leadership of an unnamed organization apparently patterned after the Gay Men's Health Crisis.\nIn 2014, HBO produced a film version directed by Ryan Murphy with a screenplay by Kramer. It starred Mark Ruffalo, Matt Bomer (who won a Golden Globe Award for his performance), Taylor Kitsch, Jim Parsons, Alfred Molina, Joe Mantello, Jonathan Groff, and Julia Roberts.\n\nIn 1987, Kramer was the catalyst in the founding of the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power (ACT UP), a direct action protest organization that chose government agencies and corporations as targets to publicize lack of treatment and funding for people with AIDS. ACT UP was formed at the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Community Services Center in New York City. Kramer was asked to speak as part of a rotating speaker series, and his well-attended speech focused on action to fight AIDS. He began by having two-thirds of the room stand up, and told them they would be dead in five years. Kramer reiterated the points introduced in his essay \"1,112 and Counting\": \"If my speech tonight doesn't scare the shit out of you, we're in real trouble. If what you're hearing doesn't rouse you to anger, fury, rage, and action, gay men will have no future here on earth. How long does it take before you get angry and fight back?\" Their first target became the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which Kramer accused in \"The New York Times\" of neglecting badly needed medication for HIV-infected Americans.\n\nEngaging in civil disobedience that would result in many people being arrested was a primary objective, as it would focus attention on the target. On March 24, 1987, 17 people out of 250 participating were arrested for blocking rush-hour traffic in front of the FDA's Wall Street offices. Kramer was arrested dozens of times working with ACT UP, and the organization grew to hundreds of chapters in the US and Europe. Immunologist Anthony Fauci states \"ACT UP put medical treatment in the hands of the patients. And that is the way it ought to be ... There is no question in my mind that Larry helped change medicine in this country. And he helped change it for the better. In American medicine there are two eras. Before Larry and after Larry. Playwright Tony Kushner offered his opinion of why Kramer fought so relentlessly: \"In a way, like a lot of Jewish men of Larry's generation, the Holocaust is a defining historical moment, and what happened in the early 1980s with AIDS felt, and was in fact, holocaustal to Larry.\"\n\nTwo decades later Kramer continued to advocate for social and legal equity for homosexuals. \"Our own country's democratic process declares us to be unequal, which means, in a democracy, that our enemy is you,\" he wrote in 2007. \"You treat us like crumbs. You hate us. And sadly, we let you.\"\n\nContinuing his commentary on government indifference toward AIDS, Kramer wrote \"Just Say No, A Play about a Farce\" in 1988. He highlights the sexual hypocrisy in the Reagan and Koch administrations that allowed AIDS to become an epidemic; it concerns a First Lady, her gay son, and the closeted gay mayor of America's \"largest northeastern city\". Its New York production, starring Kathleen Chalfant, Tonya Pinkens, and David Margulies, was prized by the few who came to see it after its negative review by \"The New York Times\". Social critic and writer Susan Sontag wrote of the piece, \"Larry Kramer is one of America's most valuable troublemakers. I hope he never lowers his voice.\"\n\nFirst published in 1989, and later expanded and republished in 1994, \"Reports from the Holocaust: The Story of an AIDS Activist\" contains a diverse selection of the nonfiction writings of Larry Kramer focused on AIDS activism and LGBT civil rights, including letters to the editor and speeches, which document his time spent at Gay Men's Health Crisis, ACT UP, and beyond.\n\nThe central message of the book is that gay men must accept responsibility for their lives, and that those who are still living must give back to their community by fighting for People With AIDS (PWA's) and LGBT rights, for, as Kramer states, \"I must put back something into this world for my own life, which is worth a tremendous amount. By not putting back, you are saying that your lives are worth shit, and that we deserve to die, and that the deaths of all our friends and lovers have amounted to nothing. I can't believe that in your heart of hearts you feel this way. I can't believe you want to die. Do you?\" The first publication provides a portrait of Kramer as activist, and the 1994 edition contains commentary written by him that reflects on his earlier pieces and provides insight into Larry Kramer as writer.\n\nKramer directly and deliberately defines AIDS as a holocaust because he believes the United States' government failed to respond quickly and expend the necessary resources to cure AIDS, largely because AIDS initially infected gay men, and, quite soon after, predominantly poor and politically powerless minorities. Through speeches, editorials, and personal, sometimes publicized, letters to figures such as politician Gary Bauer, former New York Mayor Ed Koch, several \"New York Times\" reporters, and head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Anthony Fauci, Kramer personally advocates for a more significant response to AIDS. He implores the government to conduct research based on commonly accepted scientific standards and to allocate funds and personnel to AIDS research. Kramer ultimately states that the response to AIDS in America must be defined as a holocaust because of the large number deaths that resulted from the negligence and apathy that surrounded AIDS in the Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush, and early Bill Clinton presidencies.\n\n\"The Destiny of Me\" picks up where \"The Normal Heart\" left off, following Ned Weeks as he continues his journey fighting those whose complacency or will impede the discovery of a cure for a disease from which he suffers. The play opened in October 1992 and ran for one year off Broadway at the Lucille Lortel Theatre by the Circle Repertory Company. It was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize, was a double Obie Award winner and received the Lortel Award for Outstanding Play of the Year. The original production starred John Cameron Mitchell, \"a young actor who dominates the show with a performance at once ethereal and magnetic\", according to \"The New York Times\" reviewer Frank Rich. Most powerful, Rich wrote, was the thematic question Kramer posed to himself: \"Why was he of all people destined to scream bloody murder with the aim of altering the destiny of the human race?\" Kramer states in his introduction to the play:\nThis journey, from discovery through guilt to momentary joy and toward AIDS, has been my longest, most important journey, as important as—no, more important than my life with my parents, than my life as a writer, than my life as an activist. Indeed, my homosexuality, as unsatisfying as much of it was for so long, has been the single most important defining characteristic of my life.\nIts recent 2002 London Finborough Theatre production was the No. 1 Critics Choice in \"The Evening Standard\".\n\n\"Tragedy\" was a speech and a call to arms that Kramer delivered five days after the 2004 re-election of George W. Bush that he turned into a book. Kramer believed that Bush was re-elected largely because of his opposition to same-sex marriage, and found it inconceivable that voters would respond so strongly to that issue when there were so many more pressing ones:\nAlmost 60 million people whom we live and work with every day think we are immoral. \"Moral values\" was top of many lists of why people supported George Bush. Not Iraq. Not the economy. Not terrorism. \"Moral values\". In case you need a translation that means us. It is hard to stand up to so much hate.\nThe speech's effects were far-reaching, and had most corners of the gay world once again discussing Kramer's moral vision of drive and self-worth for the LGBT community.\n\nKramer even stated: Does it occur to you that we brought this plague of AIDS upon ourselves? I know I am getting into dangerous waters here but it is time. With the cabal breathing even more murderously down our backs it is time. And you are still doing it. You are still murdering each other.\n\nKramer, again, had his detractors from the community. Writing for Salon.com, Richard Kim felt that once again Kramer personified the very object of his criticism: homophobia.\nHe recycles the kind of harangues about gay men (and young gay men in particular) that institutions like the \"Times\" so love to print – that they are buffoonish, disengaged Peter Pans dancing, drugging and fucking their lives away while the world and the disco burn down around them.\n\nAround 1981, Kramer began researching and writing a manuscript called \"The American People: A History\", an ambitious historical work that begins in the Stone Age and continues into the present. For example, there is information relating to Kramer's assertion that Abraham Lincoln was gay. In 2002, Will Schwalbe, editor-in-chief of Hyperion Books – the only man to have read the entire manuscript to that date – said, \"He has set himself the hugest of tasks,\" and he described it as \"staggering, brilliant, funny, and harrowing.\" In 2006, Kramer said of the work, \"[It is] my own history of America and of the cause of HIV/AIDS ... Writing and researching this history has convinced me that the plague of HIV/AIDS has been intentionally allowed to happen.\"\n\nThe book was published as a novel by Farrar, Straus & Giroux in 2015. In \"The New York Times Book Review\", Dwight Garner wrote, \"I wish I could report that \"The American People, Volume 1\" had power to match its scope. It does not. As a work of sustained passion, it is formidable. As a work of art, it is very modest indeed. The tone is talky and digressive; few real characters emerge; one feels lashed to the mast after only 50 pages or so.\" In the book, Kramer writes that in addition to Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, Alexander Hamilton, Andrew Jackson, Franklin Pierce, James Buchanan, Mark Twain, Herman Melville, and Richard Nixon were gay.\n\nIn 1997, Kramer approached Yale University, to bequeath several million dollars \"to endow a permanent, tenured professorship in gay studies and possibly to build a gay and lesbian student center.\" At that time, gender, ethnic and race-related studies were viewed warily by academia. The then Yale provost, Alison Richard, stated that gay and lesbian studies was too narrow a specialty for a program in perpetuity. Kramer's rejected proposal read: \"Yale is to use this money solely for 1) the study of and/or instruction in gay male literature, by which I mean courses to study gay male writers throughout history or the teaching to gay male students of writing about their heritage and their experience. To ensure for the continuity of courses in either or both of these areas tenured positions should be established; and/or 2) the establishment of a gay student center at Yale. . . .\"\n\nIn 2001, both sides agreed to a five-year trial with seed money of $1 million Arthur Kramer endowed to Yale to finance the \"Larry Kramer Initiative for Lesbian and Gay Studies\". The money would pay visiting professors and a program coordinator for conferences, guest speakers and other events. Kramer agreed to leave his literary papers and those chronicling the AIDS movement and his founding of GMHC and ACT UP to Yale's Beinecke Library. \"A lot has changed since I made my initial demands,\" said Kramer. \"I was trying to cram stuff down their throat. I'd rather they fashion their own stuff. It may allow for a much more expandable notion of what lesbian and gay studies really is.\" The program was closed down by Yale in 2006.\n\nKramer's novel, \"The American People: Volume 1\", was published in 2015 by FSG.\n\nKramer's relationship with his brother, Arthur Kramer, founding partner of the law firm Kramer Levin, exploded into the public sphere with Kramer's 1984 play, \"The Normal Heart.\" In the play, Kramer portrays Arthur (as Ben Weeks) as more concerned with building his $2 million house in Connecticut than in helping his brother's cause. Humorist Calvin Trillin, a friend of both Larry and Arthur, once called \"The Normal Heart\" \"the play about the building of [Arthur's] house\". Anemona Hartocollis observed in \"The New York Times\" that \"their story came to define an era for hundreds of thousands of theatergoers\". Arthur, who had been his younger brother's protector against the parents they both disliked, couldn't find it in his heart to reject Larry, but also couldn't accept his homosexuality. This caused years of arguing and stretches of silence between the siblings. In the 1980s, Larry wanted Arthur's firm to represent the fledgling Gay Men's Health Crisis, a nonprofit Larry organized. Arthur said he had to clear it with his firm's intake committee. Larry saw this as an evasion—rightly, as Arthur said later. Larry called for a gay boycott of MCI, a prominent Kramer Levin client, which Arthur saw as a personal affront. In 1992, Colorado voters passed Amendment 2, an anti-gay rights referendum, and Arthur refused to cancel a ski trip to Aspen.\n\nThroughout their disagreements, they still stayed close. Larry writes of their relationship in \"The Normal Heart\": \"The brothers love each other a great deal; [Arthur's] approval is essential to [Larry].\"\n\nIn 2001, Arthur gave Yale a $1 million grant to establish the Larry Kramer Initiative for Lesbian and Gay Studies, a program focusing on gay history.\n\nKramer Levin went on to become one of the gay rights movement's staunchest advocates, helping Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund on such high-profile cases as \"Lawrence v. Texas\" before the U.S. Supreme Court and \"Hernandez v. Robles\" before the New York Court of Appeals. Arthur Kramer retired from the firm in 1996 and died of a stroke in 2008.\n\nIn 1988, stress over the closing of his play \"Just Say No\", only a few weeks after its opening, forced Kramer into the hospital after it aggravated a congenital hernia. While in surgery, doctors discovered liver damage due to Hepatitis B, prompting Kramer to learn that he was HIV positive. In 2001, at the age of 66, Kramer was in dire need of a liver transplant, but he was turned down by Mount Sinai Hospital's organ transplant list. People living with HIV were routinely considered inappropriate candidates for organ transplants because of complications from HIV and perceived short lifespans. Out of the 4,954 liver transplants performed in the United States, only 11 were for HIV-positive people. The news prompted \"Newsweek\" to announce Kramer was dying in June 2001, and the Associated Press in December of the same year to claim Kramer had died. Kramer became a symbol for infected people who had new leases on life due to advances in medicine. \"We shouldn't face a death sentence because of who we are or who we love\", he said in an interview. In May 2001, the Thomas E. Starzl Transplantation Institute at the University of Pittsburgh, which had performed more transplants for HIV positive patients than any other facility in the world, accepted Kramer on its list. Kramer received a new liver on December 21, 2001.\n\nKramer and his partner, architectural designer David Webster, have been together since 1991. It was Webster's ending of his relationship with Kramer in the 1970s that inspired Kramer to write \"Faggots\" (1978). When asked about their reunion decades later, Webster replied, \"He'd grown up, I'd grown up.\" On July 24, 2013 in New York City, Kramer and Webster married.\n\nKramer currently lives in Manhattan, near Washington Square Park in Greenwich Village, and in Connecticut. Another resident of Kramer's Manhattan residential complex was Kramer's longtime nemesis, Ed Koch. The two saw each other relatively infrequently, since they lived in separate towers. When Kramer saw Koch looking at the apartment in 1989, Kramer reportedly told him, \"Don't move in here! There are people here who hate you!\" On another occasion, Koch tried to pet Kramer's dog in the building's mail area, and Kramer snatched the dog away.\n\n\"Larry Kramer in Love and Anger\", a biographical film about Kramer's life directed by Jean Carlomusto, premiered at 2015 Sundance Film Festival.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19004376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19004376", "title": "List of political parties in Western Asia by country", "text": "List of political parties in Western Asia by country\n"}
{"id": "20789493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20789493", "title": "Marlene Behrmann", "text": "Marlene Behrmann\n\nMarlene Behrmann (born April 14, 1959) is a Professor of Psychology at Carnegie Mellon University. She specializes in the cognitive neuroscience of visual perception, with a specific focus on object recognition. \n\nShe received a B.A. in speech and hearing therapy from the University of Witwatersrand in Johannesburg, South Africa in 1981; an M.A. in speech pathology from the University of Witwatersrand in 1984, and a Ph.D. in Psychology from the University of Toronto in 1991. From 1991-1993, Behrmann worked in the Departments of Psychology and Medicine of the University of Toronto, and in 1993, she accepted a position as a faculty member in the Department of Psychology at Carnegie Mellon University, where she has remained since. She has also held an adjunct professorship in the Departments of Neuroscience and Communication Disorders at the University of Pittsburgh since 1994, and she has served as a Visiting Professor at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel in 2000-2001 and the University of Toronto in 2006-2007. Behrmann is a member of the Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition at CMU.\n\nThe major approach she uses in her research is to study the behavior of human adults who have sustained brain damage (usually through stroke or head injury), which selectively affects their ability to carry out these processes. Behrmann also conducts rehabilitation studies with brain damaged subjects in order to treat the observed deficits, which also sheds light on the mechanisms underlying visual cognition. \n\n"}
{"id": "15864516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15864516", "title": "Mimetic drift", "text": "Mimetic drift\n\nMimetic drift describes the flow of memes across a social group. A typical usage can be seen in the edition of \"The Harrow Technology Report\" dated 22 December 2003.\n\nThe phrase was used as the title of a short story by science fiction author Glenn Grant.\n"}
{"id": "31158414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31158414", "title": "Ministry of Health and Population (Egypt)", "text": "Ministry of Health and Population (Egypt)\n\nThe Ministry of Health and Population (MoHP) has its headquarters in Cairo. Hala Zaid appointed in June 2018. She served for a long period in the Ministry of Health.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16006433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16006433", "title": "Multistage testing", "text": "Multistage testing\n\nMultistage testing is an algorithm-based approach to administering tests. It is very similar to computer-adaptive testing in that items are interactively selected for each examinee by the algorithm, but rather than selecting individual items, groups of items are selected, building the test in stages. These groups are called \"testlets\" or \"panels\".\n\nWhile multistage tests could theoretically be administered by a human, the extensive computations required (often using item response theory) mean that multistage tests are administered by computer.\n\nThe number of stages or testlets can vary. If the testlets are relatively small, such as five items, ten or more could easily be used in a test. Some multistage tests are designed with the minimum of two stages (one stage would be a conventional fixed-form test).\n\nIn response to the increasing use of multistage testing, the scholarly journal \"Applied Measurement in Education\" published a special edition on the topic in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "59041538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59041538", "title": "New York Medical Journal (1865)", "text": "New York Medical Journal (1865)\n\nThe New York Medical Journal is an American medical journal. It was first published in 1865.\n"}
{"id": "35007820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35007820", "title": "Protective factor", "text": "Protective factor\n\nProtective factors are conditions or attributes (skills, strengths, resources, supports or coping strategies) in individuals, families, communities or the larger society that help people deal more effectively with stressful events and mitigate or eliminate risk in families and communities.\n\nIn the field of Preventative Medicine and Health Psychology, Protective Factors refer to any factor that decreases the chances of a negative health outcome occurring. Conversely, a Risk factor will increase the chances of a negative health outcome occurring. Just as statistical correlations and regressions can examine how a range of independent variables impact a dependent variable, we can examine how many Protective and Risk factors contribute to the likelihood of an illness occurring.\n\nProtective factors include:\n\nSome risks that adopted children are prone to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1441150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1441150", "title": "Raymond Tallis", "text": "Raymond Tallis\n\nRaymond C. Tallis (born 10 October 1946) is a philosopher, poet, novelist, cultural critic and a retired medical physician and clinical neuroscientist. Specialising in geriatrics, Tallis served on several UK commissions on medical care of the aged and was an editor or major contributor to two key textbooks in the field, \"The Clinical Neurology of Old Age\" and \"Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology\".\n\nOn leaving Liverpool College, Tallis gained an Open Scholarship to Keble College, Oxford, where he completed a degree in animal physiology in 1967. He completed his medical degree in 1970 at the University of Oxford and St Thomas' Hospital in London. From 1996 to 2000, he was Consultant Adviser in Care of the Elderly to the Chief Medical Officer. In 1999–2000, he was Vice-Chairman of the Stroke Task Force of the Advisory Group developing the National Service Framework for Older People. He has been on the Standing Medical Advisory Committee and the Council of the Royal College of Physicians and was secretary of the Joint Specialist Committee of the Royal College on Health Care of the Elderly between 1995 and 2003. He was a member of the Joint Task Force on Partnership in Medicine Taking, established by Alan Milburn, the Secretary of State for Health, in 2001. For three years he was a member of one of the appraisal panels of the National Institute of Clinical Excellence. He retired in 2006 as Emeritus Professor of Geriatric Medicine at the University of Manchester.\n\nTallis attacked post-structuralism in books such as \"Not Saussure\", \"Theorrhoea and After\" and rejected the assumptions of much artificial intelligence research in his book \"Why the Mind is Not a Computer: A Pocket Dictionary on Neuromythology\". He denies that our appreciation of art and music can be reduced to scientific terms. His philosophical writings supply an anthropology that acknowledges what is distinctive – and remarkable – about human beings. To this end he has written a trilogy of books entitled \"The Hand\"; \"I Am: A Philosophical Inquiry into First-Person Being\"; and \"The Knowing Animal\". He has also written extensively about the misuse of scientific language and concepts to explain human experiences.\n\nIn 2007 Tallis published \"Unthinkable Thought: The Enduring Significance of Parmenides\". His book \"The Kingdom of Infinite Space: A Fantastical Journey Around Your Head\", which explores the range of activities that go on inside the human head, was published in April 2008. and \"Michelangelo's Finger: An Exploration of Everyday Transcendence\" was published in 2010.\n\n\"Aping Mankind: Neuromania, Darwinitis and the Misrepresentation of Humanity\" was published in 2011. \"In Defence of Wonder and Other Philosophical Reflections\", a collection of essays from \"The Reader\" and elsewhere, was published in April 2012.\n\nTallis is among the Distinguished Supporters of Humanists UK. Tallis is also a Patron of Dignity in Dying. On 15 September 2010, Tallis, along with 54 other public figures, signed an open letter published in \"The Guardian\", stating their opposition to Pope Benedict XVI's state visit to the UK. In a 2010 interview with author Jesse Horn, Tallis declared that he is an optimistic humanist and an atheist. \"Given that I was born a few months after Auschwitz was liberated, it is hardly surprising that I have a strong sense of the evil that humans – individually and collectively – do. My position is that of cautious and chastened optimism, a belief that, if we are ourselves well-treated by others, we will usually treat others reasonably well.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2525032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2525032", "title": "Regimen", "text": "Regimen\n\nA regimen is a plan, a regulated course such as a diet, exercise or medical treatment, designed to give a positive result. A low-salt diet is a regimen. A course of penicillin is a regimen, and there are many chemotherapy regimens in the treatment of cancer.\n\nThe work, \"Regimen in Acute Diseases\", attributed to the ancient Greek physician, Hippocrates of Cos, describes the types and usage of medical regimens in his era (400 BCE). This is perhaps the first appearance of the term. \nPubMed at the US National Library of Medicine lists over 220,000 articles using the term \"regimen\" from 1892 to January 2013. In the context of medieval medicine, regimen referred to the careful management of habits, diet, and schedule to keep the four humors in equilibrium. By manipulating the six non-naturals (airs, diet, sleep, exercise, evacuation, and emotion) a person could keep track of their physical and mental wellbeing by attending to regimen.\n\nIn economic statistics, a regimen refers to the selected goods and/or services priced for the purpose of compiling a price index. The most well known example is the consumer price index.\n"}
{"id": "44915117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44915117", "title": "Reuse of excreta", "text": "Reuse of excreta\n\nReuse of excreta (or re-use or use of excreta) refers to the safe, beneficial use of animal or human excreta, i.e. feces (or faeces in British English) and urine. Such beneficial use involves mainly the nutrient, organic matter and energy contained in excreta, rather than the water content (as is the case for wastewater reuse). Reuse of excreta can involve using it as soil conditioner or fertilizer in agriculture, gardening, aquaculture or horticultural activities. Excreta can also be used as a fuel source or as a building material.\n\nExcreta contains resources that can be recovered: plant-available nutrients nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium as well as micronutrients such as sulphur and organic matter. These resources which are contained in excreta or in domestic wastewater (sewage) have traditionally been used in agriculture in many countries. They are still being used in agriculture to this day, but the practice is often carried out in an unregulated and unsafe manner in developing countries. The WHO Guidelines from 2006 have set up a framework how this reuse can be done safely by following a \"multiple barrier approach\".\n\nThere are a number of \"excreta-derived fertilizers\" which vary in their properties and fertilizing characteristics: urine, dried feces, composted feces, fecal sludge (septage), sewage, sewage sludge and animal manure.\n\nReuse of excreta is the final step of the sanitation chain which starts with collection of excreta (by use of toilets) and continues with transport and treatment all the way to either disposal or reuse.\n\nSanitation systems that are designed for safe, effective recovery of resources can play an important role in a community’s overall resource management. Various technologies and practices, ranging in scale from a single rural household to a city, can be used to capture potentially valuable resources and make them available for safe, productive uses that support human well-being and broader sustainability.\n\nThe resources available in wastewater and excreta include water, plant nutrients, organic matter and energy content. Reuse of excreta focuses on the nutrient and organic matter content of excreta unlike reuse of wastewater which focuses on the water content.\n\nThe most common type of reuse of excreta is as fertilizer and soil conditioner in agriculture. This is also called a \"closing the loop\" approach for sanitation with agriculture. It is a central aspect of the ecological sanitation approach. An alternative term is also \"use of excreta\" rather than \"reuse\" as strictly speaking it is the \"first\" \"use\" of excreta, not the second time that it is used.\n\nIt can be efficient to combine wastewater and excreta with other organic waste such as manure, food and crop waste for the purposes of resource recovery.\n\nThe most common types of excreta reuse, including excreta on their own or mixed with water in the case of domestic wastewater (sewage), are:\n\nResearch into how to make reuse of urine and feces safe in agriculture was carried out in Sweden since the 1990s. In 2006 the World Health Organization (WHO) provided guidelines on safe reuse of wastewater, excreta and greywater. The multiple barrier concept to reuse, which is the key cornerstone of this publication, has led to a clear understanding on how excreta reuse can be done safely. The concept is also used in water supply and food production and is generally understood as a series of treatment steps and other safety precautions to prevent the spread of pathogens.\n\nThe degree of treatment required for excreta-based fertilizers before they can safely be used in agriculture depends on a number of factors. It mainly depends on which other barriers will be put in place according to the multiple barrier concept. Such barriers might be selecting a suitable crop, farming methods, methods of applying the fertilizer, education and so forth.\n\nFor example, in the case of urine-diverting dry toilets (UDDTs) secondary treatment of dried feces can be performed at community level rather than at household level and can include thermophilic composting where fecal material is composted at over 50 °C, prolonged storage with the duration of 1.5 to two years, chemical treatment with ammonia from urine to inactivate the pathogens, solar sanitation for further drying or heat treatment to eliminate pathogens.\n\nThere is an untapped fertilizer resource in human excreta. In Africa, for example, the theoretical quantities of nutrients that can be recovered from human excreta are comparable with all current fertilizer use on the continent. Reuse can therefore support increased food production and also provide an alternative to chemical fertilizers, which is often unaffordable to small-holder farmers.\n\nMineral fertilizers are made from mining activities and can contain heavy metals. Phosphate ores contain heavy metals such as cadmium and uranium, which can reach the food chain via mineral phosphate fertilizer. This does not apply to excreta-based fertilizers which is an advantage.\n\nIn intensive agricultural land use, animal manure is often not used as targeted as mineral fertilizers and thus the nitrogen utilization efficiency is poor. Animal manure can become a problem in terms of excessive use in areas of intensive agriculture with high numbers of livestock and too little available farmland.\n\nFertilizing elements of organic fertilizers are mostly bound in carbonaceous reduced compounds. If these are already partially oxidized as in the compost, the fertilizing minerals are adsorbed on the degradation products (humic acids) etc. Thus, they exhibit a slow-release effect and are usually less rapidly leached compared to mineral fertilizers.\n\nIn the case of phosphorus in particular, reuse of excreta is one known method to recover phosphorus to mitigate the looming shortage (also known as \"peak phosphorus\") of economical mined phosphorus. Mined phosphorus is a limited resource that is being used up for fertilizer production at an ever-increasing rate, which is threatening worldwide food security. Therefore, phosphorus from excreta-based fertilizers is an interesting alternative to fertilizers containing mined phosphate ore.\n\nUrine is primarily composed of water and urea. It contains large quantities of nitrogen (N) (mostly as urea), as well as reasonable quantities of dissolved potassium. The nutrient concentrations in urine vary with diet. In particular nitrogen content in urine is related to quantity of protein in the diet: A high protein diet results in high urea levels in urine. Urine's eight main ionic species (> 0.1 meq L−1) are cations Na, K, NH4, Ca and the anions, Cl, SO4, PO4 and HCO3. Urine typically contains 70% of the nitrogen and more than half the potassium found in sewage, while making up less than 1% of the overall volume. \n\nUrine fertilizer is usually applied diluted with water because undiluted urine can chemically burn the leaves or roots of some plants, particularly if the soil moisture content is low. The dilution also helps to reduce odour development following application. Applying urine as fertilizer has been called \"closing the cycle of agricultural nutrient flows\" or ecological sanitation or ecosan.\n\nWhen diluted with water (at a 1:5 ratio for container-grown annual crops with fresh growing medium each season or a 1:8 ratio for more general use), it can be applied directly to soil as a fertilizer. The fertilization effect of urine has been found to be comparable to that of commercial nitrogen fertilizers. Concentrations of heavy metals such as lead, mercury, and cadmium, commonly found in sewage sludge, which is also used as fertilizer, are much lower in urine. Urine may contain pharmaceutical residues (environmental persistent pharmaceutical pollutants).\n\nThe more general limitations to using urine as fertilizer depend mainly on the potential for buildup of excess nitrogen (due to the high ratio of that macronutrient), and inorganic salts such as sodium chloride, which are also part of the wastes excreted by the renal system. Over-fertilization with urine or other nitrogen fertilizers can result in too much ammonia for plants to absorb, acidic conditions, or other phytotoxicity. Important parameters to consider while fertilizing with urine include salinity tolerance of the plant, soil composition, addition of other fertilizing compounds, and quantity of rainfall or other irrigation.\n\nIt was reported in 1995 that urine nitrogen gaseous losses were relatively high and plant uptake lower than with labelled ammonium nitrate. In contrast, phosphorus was utilized at a higher rate than soluble phosphate.\n\nHuman urine can be collected with sanitation systems that utilize urinals or urine diversion toilets. If urine is to be collected for use as a fertilizer in agriculture, then the easiest method of doing so is (in increasing order of costs) by using waterless urinals, urine-diverting dry toilets (UDDTs) or urine diversion flush toilets.\n\nThe risks of using urine as a natural source of agricultural fertilizer are generally regarded as negligible or acceptable. There are potentially more environmental problems (such as eutrophication resulting from the influx of nutrient rich effluent into aquatic or marine ecosystems) and a higher energy consumption when urine is treated as part of sewage in wastewater treatment plants compared with when it is used directly as a fertilizer resource.\n\nIn developing countries the use of raw sewage or fecal sludge has been common throughout history, yet the application of pure urine to crops is rare. Increasingly there are calls for urine's use as a fertilizer.\n\nSince about 2011, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is providing research funding sanitation systems that recover the nutrients in urine.\n\n\nReuse of dried feces (feces) from urine-diverting dry toilets (UDDTs) after post-treatment can result in increased crop production through fertilizing effects of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and improved soil fertility through organic carbon.\n\nCompost derived from composting toilets (where organic kitchen waste is in some cases also added to the composting toilet), has in principal the same uses as compost derived from other organic waste products, such as sewage sludge or municipal organic waste. One limiting factor may be legal restrictions due to the possibility that pathogens remain in the compost. In any case, the use of compost from composting toilets in one's own garden can be regarded as safe and is the main method of use for compost from composting toilets. Hygienic measures for handling of the compost must be applied by all those people who are exposed to it, e.g. wearing gloves and boots.\n\nSome of the urine will be part of the compost, although some urine will be lost via leachate and evaporation. Urine can contain up to 90 percent of the nitrogen, up to 50 percent of the phosphorus, and up to 70 percent of the potassium present in human excreta.\n\nThe nutrients in compost from a composting toilet have a higher plant availability than the product (dried feces) from a urine-diverting dry toilet.\n\nFecal sludge (also called septage) is defined as \"coming from onsite sanitation technologies, and has not been transported through a sewer.\" Examples of onsite technologies include pit latrines, unsewered public ablution blocks, septic tanks and dry toilets. Fecal sludge can be treated by a variety of methods to render it suitable for reuse in agriculture. These include (usually carried out in combination): dewatering, thickening, drying (in sludge drying beds), composting, pelletization, anaerobic digestion.\n\nReclaimed water can be reused for irrigation, industrial uses, replenishing natural water courses, water bodies and aquifers and other potable and non-potable uses. These applications however focus usually on the water aspect, not on the nutrients and organic matter reuse aspect, which is the focus of \"reuse of excreta\".\n\nWhen wastewater is reused in agriculture, its nutrient (nitrogen and phosphorus) content may be useful for additional fertilizer application. Work by the International Water Management Institute and others has led to guidelines on how reuse of municipal wastewater in agriculture for irrigation and fertilizer application can be safely implemented in low income countries.\n\nThe use of treated sewage sludge (after treatment also called \"biosolids\") as a soil conditioner or fertilizer is possible but is a controversial topic in some countries (such as USA, some countries in Europe) due to the chemical pollutants it may contain, such as heavy metals and environmental persistent pharmaceutical pollutants.\n\nNorthumbrian Water in the United Kingdom uses two biogas plants to produce what the company calls \"poo power\" - using sewage sludge to produce energy to generate income. Biogas production has reduced its pre 1996 electricity expenditure of 20 million GBP by about 20% . Severn Trent and Wessex Water also have similar projects.\n\nSludge treatment liquids (after anaerobic digestion) can be used as an input source for a process to recover phosphorus in the form of struvite for use as fertilizer. For example, the Canadian company Ostara Nutrient Recovery Technologies is marketing a process based on controlled chemical precipitation of phosphorus in a fluidized bed reactor that recovers struvite in the form of crystalline pellets from sludge dewatering streams. The resulting crystalline product is sold to the agriculture, turf and ornamental plants sectors as fertilizer under the registered trade name \"Crystal Green\".\n\nAnimal dung (manure) has been used for centuries as a fertilizer for farming, as it improves the soil structure (aggregation), so that it holds more nutrients and water, and becomes more fertile. Animal manure also encourages soil microbial activity, which promotes the soil's trace mineral supply, improving plant nutrition. It also contains some nitrogen and other nutrients that assist the growth of plants.\n\nExposure of farm workers to untreated excreta constitutes a significant health risk due to its pathogen content. This risk also extends to consumers of crops fertilized with untreated excreta. Therefore, excreta need to be appropriately treated before reuse, and health aspects need to be managed for all reuse applications as the excreta can contain pathogens even after treatment.\n\nThe treatment of excreta and wastewater for pathogen removal can take place: \n\nAs an indicator organism in reuse schemes, helminth eggs are commonly used as these organisms are the most difficult to destroy in most treatment processes. The multiple barrier approach is recommended where e.g. lower levels of treatment may be acceptable when combined with other post-treatment barriers along the sanitation chain.\n\nExcreta from humans and farmed animals contain hormones and pharmaceutical residues which could in theory enter the food chain via fertilized crops but are currently not fully removed by conventional wastewater treatment plants anyway and can enter drinking water sources via household wastewater (sewage). In fact, the pharmaceutical residues in the excreta are degraded better in terrestrial systems (soil) than in aquatic systems.\n\nOnly a fraction of the nitrogen-based fertilizers is converted to produce and other plant matter. The remainder accumulates in the soil or lost as run-off. This also applies to excreta-based fertilizer since it also contains nitrogen. Excessive nitrogen which is not taken up by plants is transformed into nitrate which is easily leached. High application rates combined with the high water-solubility of nitrate leads to increased runoff into surface water as well as leaching into groundwater. Nitrate levels above 10 mg/L (10 ppm) in groundwater can cause 'blue baby syndrome' (acquired methemoglobinemia). The nutrients, especially nitrates, in fertilizers can cause problems for natural habitats and for human health if they are washed off soil into watercourses or leached through soil into groundwater.\n\nApart from use in agriculture, there are other possible uses of excreta. For example, in the case of fecal sludge, it can be treated and then serve as protein (black soldier fly process), fodder, fish food, building materials and biofuels (biogas from anaerobic digestion, incineration or co-combustion of dried sludge, pyrolysis of fecal sludge, biodiesel from fecal sludge).\n\nDry animal dung is used as a fuel in many countries around the world.\n\nPilot scale research in Uganda and Senegal has shown that it is viable to use dry feces as for combustion in industry, provided it has been dried to a minimum of 28% dry solids.\n\nDried sewage sludge can be burned in sludge incineration plants, and generate heat and electricity (the waste-to-energy process is one example).\n\nUrine has also been investigated as a potential source of hydrogen fuel. Urine was found to be a suitable wastewater for high rate hydrogen production in a Microbial Electrolysis Cell (MEC).\n\nSmall-scale biogas plants are being utilized in many countries, including Ghana, Vietnam and many others. Larger centralized systems are being planned that mix animal and human feces to produce biogas. Biogas is also produced during sewage sludge treatment processes with anaerobic digestion. Here, it can be used for heating the digesters and for generating electricity.\n\nPilot facilities are being developed for feeding Black Soldier Fly larvae with feces. The mature flies would then be a source of protein to be included in the production of feed for chickens in South Africa.\n\nIt is known that additions of fecal matter up to 20% by dried weight in clay bricks does not make a significant functional difference to bricks.\n\nA Japanese sewage treatment facility extracts precious metals from sewage sludge. This idea was also tested by the US Geological Survey (USGS) which found that the sewage sludge generated by 1 million people contained 13 million dollars worth of precious metals.\n\nDebate is ongoing about whether reuse of excreta is cost effective. The terms \"sanitation economy\" and \"toilet resources\" have been introduced to describe the potential for selling products made from human feces or urine.\n\nThe NGO SOIL in Haiti began building urine-diverting dry toilets and composting the waste produced for agricultural use in 2006. SOIL’s two composting waste treatment facilities currently transform over 20,000 gallons (75,708 liters) of human excreta into organic, agricultural-grade compost every month. The compost produced at these facilities is sold to farmers, organizations, businesses, and institutions around the country to help finance SOIL’s waste treatment operations. Crops grown with this soil amendment include spinach, peppers, sorghum, maize, and more. Each batch of compost produced is tested for the indicator organism \"E. coli\" to ensure that complete pathogen kill has taken place during the thermophilic composting process.\n\nThere is still a lack of examples of implemented policy where the reuse aspect is fully integrated in policy and advocacy. When considering drivers for policy change in this respect, the following lessons learned should be taken into consideration: Revising legislation does not necessarily lead to functioning reuse systems; it is important to describe the “institutional landscape” and involve all actors; parallel processes should be initiated at all levels of government i.e. national, regional and local level); country specific strategies and approaches are needed; and strategies supporting newly developed policies need to be developed.\n\nRegulations relating to excreta reuse may hinder export and import of agricultural products.\n\nThe European Union (EU) only allows the use of source separated urine in conventional farming within the EU, but not yet in organic farming. This is a situation that many agricultural experts, especially in Sweden, would like to see changed. This ban may also reduce the options to use urine as a fertilizer in other countries if they wish to export their products to the EU.\n\nIn the United States, the EPA regulation governs the management of sewage sludge but has no jurisdiction over the byproducts of a urine-diversion dry toilet (UDDT). Oversight of these materials falls to the states.\n\nThe reuse of excreta as a fertilizer for growing crops has been practiced in many countries for a long time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38144931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38144931", "title": "Rosette sampler", "text": "Rosette sampler\n\nA rosette sampler is a device used for water sampling in deep water (such as the Great Lakes or oceans) in order to investigate about its quality.\n\nA rosette sampler is made of an assembly of 12 to 36 sampling bottles. Each bottle is a volume that range from a minimum value of 1.2 L to a maximum value of 30 L. All of them constitutes the rosette sampler and are clustered around a cylinder situated in the center of the assembly, where there is a sensing system called Sea-Bird or CTD, that stands for \"Conductivity, Temperature and Depth\", although other variables can be measured by modern CTDs (e.g. water turbidity, dissolved oxygen concentration, chlorophyll concentration and pH).\n\nThe apparatus is attached to a wire rope. A winch on board of the boat unroll the rope during descent and roll up it during the ascent (i.e. at the end of the samples collection). During operations in the ocean, a rosette sampler can approach the seabed at a distance from 1 to 5 m, depending on the particular sea conditions.\n\nThe opening of each sampling bottle can be automatic (by reaching a certain depth) or manual (by operator, remotely).\n\nWater sampling is used in general for chemical analysis and ecotoxicological assessment.\n\nA rosette sampler is preferred to Winchester sampler for collection of water sampling at depths greater than 50 m.\n\n"}
{"id": "35143854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35143854", "title": "SCAR-Fc", "text": "SCAR-Fc\n\nsCAR-Fc (Soluble Receptor Analogue) is an experimental prophylactic treatment against coxsackievirus B3 (CVB) infections. Coxsackievirus B3 can cause cardiac damage, eventually resulting in a weakened and enlarged heart that is termed dilated cardiomyopathy. While many other treatments inhibit viral proliferation in myocytes, sCAR-Fc prevents the virus entering the cell by competitively binding to coxsackie virus and adenovirus receptors (CAR) on the membrane of myocytes.\n\nCoxsackievirus B3 is a single-stranded RNA enterovirus and a member of the \"Picornavirdae\" family. Once the virus penetrates the host's systemic circulation via contaminated water or food, it can travel and infect the heart and cause myocarditis. Myocarditis is an inflammation of the heart, most commonly cause by viral infections. Amongst the viruses capable of causing myocarditis, CVB3 is a common agent identified in inducing cardiac damage. Internalization of the virus into myocytes occurs by binding to coxsackievirus-adenovirus receptors (CAR) located in tight junctions on cell membranes. Once inside the cytoplasm, the virus can use the host's ribosomal machinery to proliferate and replicate progenies for further infection. Extensive cardiac necrosis can occur by day three after infection as incubated viruses lyse myocytes, resulting in severe and rapid cardiac decompensation. With loss of cardiac cells increasing progressively, infected individual will experience abnormalities in left ventricular systolic and diastolic function, as well as electrical conduction defects manifesting as cardiac dysrhythmias. As a result, ejection fraction decreases substantially. The cytolytic destruction of heart cells can lead to dilated cardiomyopathy if not treated appropriately.\n\nThe role of the immune system in response to the presence of a virus has both beneficial and detrimental effects on the cardiac system. The arrival of natural killer cells (NK cells) at the site of infection limits viral proliferation in myocytes. Conversely, while certain cytokines released from immune cells have protective effects, others such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα) have deleterious effects on heart cells. Moreover, peak concentrations of T cells in the myocardium during days 7-14 play important roles in both viral clearance and immune mediated cardiac damage. T-cells not only lyse and destroy infected myocytes, but due to molecular mimicry, they also destroy normal, healthy cardiac cells, further driving the heart towards dilated cardiomyopathy.\n\nA synthetic and soluble form of CAR (sCAR) has been created to prevent viral infection with CVB3. Attaching Fc domain of immunoglobulin IgG1 to sCAR (sCAR-Fc) enhances solubility and extends its half-life. Furthermore, once sCAR-Fc binds the virus, macrophages and other phagocytic immune cells with Fc receptor recognition bind to the sCAR-Fc-viral complex to eliminate the virus. Essentially, sCAR-Fc mimics CAR receptors on cardiac cells, competitively inhibiting viral attachment and entry into myocytes. Decreased lesions in cardiac tissues, reduced cell necrosis, and diminished inflammatory responses are observed in sCAR-Fc treated cells (CITE). This suggests protective effects against myocardial damage by CVB3.\nConformational changes in a viral particle (A-particle) with sCAR-Fc-virus binding causing the loss of the virus’ internal capsid protein, VP4. This irreversible reaction prevents the virus from interacting with cellular receptors (CAR) on cardiac cells, decreasing infectivity of CVB3.\n\nAdministration of sCAR-Fc beyond three days after initial exposure to the virus does not have any beneficial effects as cardiac damage is too severe. As such, the use of sCAR-Fc is currently limited to prophylactic treatments.\n"}
{"id": "38468689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38468689", "title": "Sports Medicine Australia", "text": "Sports Medicine Australia\n\nSports Medicine Australia is Australia’s peak national umbrella body for sports medicine and sports science. It was established in 1963 as the Australian Sports Medicine Federation. Its current membership includes sports medicine and health professionals, sports trainers, sporting clubs and community members. Its activities cover elite sport to community grass roots sports. It has branches in each Australian state.\n\nIt was formed in 1963 by the amalgamation of the Australian Sports Medicine Association and the Australian and the Australian Federation of Sports Medicine. Australian Sports Medicine Federation was established as a result of 1956 Melbourne Olympics medical services. Australian Sports Medicine Federation was a New South Wales breakaway group of Australian Sports Medicine Federation. Membership was originally restricted to medical doctors but now it has been widened to include a range of practitioners including: orthopedic surgeons, sports physicians, doctors, physiotherapists, optometrists, dentists, podiatrists, dietitians, psychologists, sports scientists, nurses, teachers, academics, soft tissue therapists and chiropractors. Some of these membership groups have established their own organisations – Australasian College of Sports Physicians, Sports Dietitians Australia, Exercise and Sports Science Australia, Sports Doctors Australia, Australian Physiotherapy Assoctation National Sports Physiotherapy Group but work with SMA particularly in relation to joint conferences.\n\nBrief summary of major historical developments:\n\nIt held its 1st Conference in 1965 and its annual conference is Australia’s largest and most significant sports medicine and sports science conference. Many state branches run conferences for their members.\n\nSMA publishes a range of sports medicine resources: guidelines and factsheets on sports medicine issues such as heat, blood rules, children, women, journals \"Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport\" and \"Sport Health\" and sports first aid resources. \"Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport\" is one of the lreading multidisciplinary sports science and medicine joiurnals in terms of its impact.\n\nIn 1982, it established a sports trainers scheme. The scheme is now part of its Safer Sport Program (SSP) that aims to offer a safe environment for all Australians who engage in sport and to maximise participation in physical activity. It organises sports trainers to cover sporting, school and community events.\n\nSports Medicine Australia provides advice and commentary to governments, organisations and the media on a range of issues including: head injuries and concussion, sport and exercise in the heat and cold, illnesses, skiing injuries, mouthguards, childhood obesity\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47788377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47788377", "title": "Suffrage for Americans with Disabilities", "text": "Suffrage for Americans with Disabilities\n\nAccording to Abilities United, over 16% of Americans are considered to have either a physical, developmental, or learning disability. The barriers that 33.7 million persons with disabilities face within the American electoral process include access to polling information, physical access to polls, current and future laws that deal with the topic, and the moral implications regarding the varying levels of both physical and cognitive disabilities and the act of voting.\n\nThe term \"disability\" has a wide range of connotations and associations. Webster's Dictionary defines it as:\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary defines it as:\n\nThe US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission further explores the characterization of \"disability\" within its Guidance outlines. The Commission outlines three ways in which an individual can demonstrate their disability:\n\nOriginally signed into law in 1990 and since amended in 2004, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) set a significant precedent in categorizing disability. IDEA outlined 13 distinct categories of disabilities. Though the categories apply under law to individuals between the ages of 3 and 21, they have served as one of the few examples of the federalization of disability categorizations. They include:\n\nMultiple sources report that persons with disabilities comprise one of the most disenfranchised groups within American society. As a result, Americans with both physical and cognitive disabilities are amongst the least politically engaged members of the electorate. For example, during the 2012 election cycle, 11% fewer persons with disabilities turned out to vote than their nondisabled counterparts. According to a 2013 report penned by Rutgers University professor Lisa Schur, as many as three million more citizens with disabilities would have turned out to vote had they voted at the same rate as non-disabled citizens.\n\nVoter identification laws greatly impact accessibility to polls for persons with disabilities. As the largest population of citizens without drivers licenses, persons with both physical and cognitive disabilities face the obstacle of strict identification laws at polling places within some states. Within stricter states, many disabled persons who do not have physical identification cards are required to submit absentee ballots. The National Conference of State Legislatures (NCSL) provides a web page with ID requirements for voting in each state, and those with the strictest requirements often present the largest challenges to disabled Americans.\nA leading theory that attempts to explain the lack of political engagement within disabled communities deals primarily with access to polling places. In fact, many polling places are considered to be nearly entirely inaccessible to persons with disabilities. To this end, within the past several years, the Federal Election Commission has reported that more than 20,000 polling places across the nation are not fully accessible for disabled individuals, and in 1999, the New York Attorney General fewer than 10% of upstate polling facilities were fully compliant with state and federal laws.\n\nThe failure to comply with state and federal laws can manifest itself in many ways, but it typically results in a lack of functional wheelchair ramps, sparse placement of handicapped entrance signs, and generally inaccessible physical voting booths. As a result, resources and physical aides such as \"Help America Vote Act\"-mandated voting machines are utilized for federal elections and aim to assist persons with disabilities.\n\nOne of the most popularly utilized methods of combatting these problems in recent years has manifested itself in the utilization of electronic voting machines. Because \"punch card\" and \"lever\" voting machines are often inaccessible to many parts of the disabled community, adaptive technology has been applied to many traditional devices, and many different kinds of accessible machines have been developed. Legislation like the Help America Vote Act has required that at least one accessible machine be available at each polling place. \n\nBoth state and federal legislatures have enacted thousands of pages of legislation regarding the rights of Americans with disabilities. Several major \"landmark\" pieces of legislation have served as models.\n\n\nPassed into law in 1990, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (or \"ADA\") is widely considered to be the first major attempt to define the rights of disabled Americans at a federal level. Signed into law by President George H. W. Bush, the act prohibits discrimination based on disability. Though the ADA is wide-ranging in scope, it has had many lasting effects on the suffrage of disabled Americans. Some of the most prominent changes that resulted from the legislation included calls for accessibility within polling stations. This effort to increase accessibility has led to the establishment of mandatory accessible parking, passenger drop off areas, and building entrances at polling places.\n\nPassed into law in 2002, the Help America Vote Act (\"HAVA\") creates \"mandatory minimum standards for states to follow in several key areas of election administration.\" Passing both federal legislatures with bipartisan support, the Act authorized the Secretary of Health and Human Services to make polling places accessible to persons with disabilities. The legislation has a particularly sharp focus on individuals affected by visual impairments, and requires each polling station to have to at least one disability-accessible voting machine per federal election. The Act has three main goals:\n\n\nCritics of the Act claim that its reach should be expanded to more than solely federal elections. While states receive funding for disability-accessible touchscreen electronic voting machines under HAVA, municipalities such as cities and towns do not directly receive funding. As a result, critics claim that the machines are not evenly distributed.\n\nPassed into law in 1993, the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 attempted to increase the historically low registration rates of minorities and persons with disabilities by requiring both federal and state agencies to assist in voter registration procedures.\n\nPassed into law in 1980, the Civil Rights of Institutionalized Persons Act protects the rights of persons in jails, publicly operated nursing homes, and institutions for people with psychiatric or developmental disabilities.\n\nOriginally passed into law in 1965 to combat racial discrimination at polling places, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 has recently supported advances of disabled suffrage. Section 208 of the Act allows citizens affected by \"blindness, disability, or the inability to read or write\" to assign an individual to help cast votes within a ballot box. Restrictions on the assignment of said individual include the voter's employer or agent of their union.\n\nIn some states, people who are deemed mentally incompetent are not allowed to vote. In the conservatorship process, people can lose their right to vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "3402665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3402665", "title": "Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre", "text": "Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre\n\nSunnybrook Health Sciences Centre (SHSC), known simply as Sunnybrook or Sunnybrook Hospital, is an academic health sciences centre located in Toronto, Ontario.\n\nIt is the largest trauma centre in Canada and is one of two major trauma centres in Toronto; the other is St. Michael's Hospital. Sunnybrook is a teaching hospital, fully affiliated with the University of Toronto. \n\nThe hospital is home to Canada’s largest Veterans Centre, located in the in Kilgour wing (K-Wing), and in the George Hees wing (L-Wing) of the hospital. There they care for World War II and Korean War veterans. \n\nIn 2015, Sunnybrook scientists were the first in the world to successfully, non-invasively open the blood-brain barrier.\n\nDr. Andy Smith was appointed President & CEO of Sunnybrook in 2017.\n\nSunnybrook Hospital had its origins as the Toronto Military Orthopaedic Hospital at 350 Christie Street, which was also known as the Christie Street Military Hospital and, after 1936, the Christie Street Veterans' Hospital. The Collegiate Gothic building had originally been the site of the National Cash Register Company Factory in 1913 (by architects Page and Warrington) but was converted for use as a military hospital in 1919 to house soldiers injured during World War I as well as some veterans disabled in the Boer War of 1899 to 1902 and the Fenian Raids of 1866. The influx of disabled soldiers returning from World War II led to overcrowding and the need for a new hospital. The original site was demolished in 1981 and replaced by Christie Gardens Apartments and Care Facility at 600 Melita Crescent.\n\nJoseph and Alice Kilgour, a wealthy Toronto couple, purchased 154 acres in the town of Leaside, Ontario and created Sunnybrook farm, where they raised horses and hosted fox hunts. In 1928, after Joseph's death, Alice M. Kilgour donated the Sunnybrook Farm to the City of Toronto in his memory, for use as a public park.\n\nWith the consent of the Kilgour heirs, part of the parkland was transferred to the Government of Canada to build a hospital for veterans to replace the Christie Street Hospital. The new building was designed by Allward and Gouinlock (Hugh Allward was son of sculptor Walter Seymour Allward and George H. Gouinlock is the son of architect George Wallace Gouinlock). \n\nThe first patient was admitted to Sunnybrook Military Hospital in September 1946. The hospital officially opened its doors in June 1948. The Christie Street hospital was converted into a senior citizens home named Lambert Lodge. \n\nIn 1973, Sunnybrook Military Hospital became Sunnybrook Medical Centre, and in 1976 established Canada’s first regional trauma unit. \n\nIn 1991, The Province of Ontario opened major research facilities to house the rapid growth of research on campus. The hospital merged with Women's College Hospital and the Orthopaedic and Arthritic Hospital in June 1998 under the provisions of Bill 51, but Sunnybrook and Women's College Health Sciences Centre was de-amalgamated in April 2006 to create Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre and the separate Women's College Hospital.\n\nOn July 1, 2012, Sunnybrook and St. John's Rehab Hospital, which had complementary programs and services, voluntarily merged, providing a continuum of care from acute injury or illness, through to rehabilitation and recovery.\n\nIn 2016, Sunnybrook maintains three campuses, with its main campus (Bayview) on Bayview Avenue in North York, the satellite Holland Centre (orthopaedic and arthritic care) on Wellesley St. E., and St. John's Rehab on Cummer Avenue. SHSC became affiliated with the University of Toronto in 1966.\n\nSunnybrook has the largest veterans care facility in Canada. It is partnered with Veterans Affairs Canada, and provides long-term and complex hospital care to about 500 World War II and Korean War veterans. Staff provide three categories of care to veterans: physical support, cognitive support and palliative care. The Veterans Centre is located in the Kilgour and George Hees wings of the hospital. \n\nResearch is conducted through the Veterans & Community research program through Sunnybrook Research Institute.\n\nThe program provides care to people with brain-related disorders and conditions. The program’s main areas of focus include stroke, dementias and mood and anxiety disorders.\n\nBrain sciences research is also conducted through the Hurvitz Brain Sciences research program through Sunnybrook Research Institute.\n\nThe program focuses on musculoskeletal injury, total joint replacement and major biological restoration. Areas of expertise include traumatic injury management; joint reconstruction and replacement; rehabilitation; rheumatology; sports injury management; and complex upper and lower limb surgery.\n\nMusculoskeletal research is also conducted through the Holland musculoskeletal research program through Sunnybrook Research Institute. \n\nThe program provides pre-conception, pregnancy, birth and post-birth care to pregnant women, including those with high-risk pregnancies. It also provides gynecological care to patients. The program also has a neonatal intensive-care unit (NICU). The NICU is a high-risk regional neonatal nursery, and one of three serving the Central East Region of Ontario. They care for infants requiring Level III or Level II neonatal care. In 2017, the program opened North America’s first pregnancy clinic for women with physical mobility disabilities. \n\nResearch in obstetrics, neonatology, obstetrical anaesthesia and women’s reproductive health is also conducted through the Women & Babies research program through Sunnybrook Research Institute.\n\nThe program is named for Seymour Schulich a Canadian businessman and philanthropist from Montreal. The centre, as per the name, is a cardiac care centre providing treatment, prevention and care of heart diseases. The centre performs heart surgeries, tests and procedures, including various minimally invasive heart procedures. \n\nResearch is also conducted through the Schulich heart research program through Sunnybrook Research Institute.\n\nThe Odette Cancer Program provides care to patients with various types and stages of cancer. The centre also has a focus on cancer prevention, detection and patient education. Various clinical trials are also run out of the centre. \n\nResearch is conducted through the Odette Cancer Centre research program through Sunnybrook Research Institute. Research spans from the topics of basic genetics, biochemistry and biology of cancer.\n\nThe program provides critical care and trauma care to patients. The emergency department is open 24 hours a day. The trauma centre is the largest in Canada, providing emergency medical services to patients suffering traumatic, life-threatening injuries. The trauma program also works in conjunction with the Ross Tilley Burn Centre. \n\nResearch is also conducted through the Tory Trauma research program through Sunnybrook Research Institute.\n\nSt. John's Rehab Program provides specialized rehabilitation, education and support for people recovering from complex, life-changing illnesses and injuries, including: amputations, cancer, cardiovascular surgery, organ transplants, orthopaedic conditions, stroke and neurological conditions, traumatic injuries and complex medical procedures and conditions. It is home to Canada's only organ transplant rehabilitation program and Ontario's only burn rehabilitation program.\n\nRehabilitation research is also conducted through the St. John's Rehab research program through Sunnybrook Research Institute.\n\nThe Integrated Community Program was established to ensure that the transition from hospital to the next step is one where everyone involved is both informed and engaged. This program also includes Sunnybrook's emergency care\n\nA helicopter pad is located at the east end of the hospital grounds. Sunnybrook handles air ambulance flights with urgent trauma cases from the Greater Toronto Area where an ambulance run is not possible. Only two other hospitals in Toronto have helipads (St. Michael's Hospital and the Hospital for Sick Children).\n\nSunnybrook is planning to build a new helipad on the roof of the building’s M-Wing. \n\nSunnybrook Hospital was the site of Ontario's first private cancer clinic created since the inception of Medicare. The clinic operated after regular working hours at the hospital, and was owned by Tim McGowan. An investigation by the Auditor General of Ontario revealed that the cost per procedure was $500 greater than in the public sector and that the waiting times did not decrease in the public system as a result of the clinic's creation. The clinic operated from 2001 until 2003.\n\nThe Holland Centre consists of the Orthopaedic Program located in downtown Toronto; the Holland Centre Campus is located on 43 Wellesley St. East.\n\nThe Holland Orthopaedic and Arthritic Centre was initially founded as the Orthopaedic and Arthritic Hospital by James E. Bateman and Charles S. Wright II in 1955 based on a charter procured by C. Stewart Wright, an orthopaedic surgeon. It merged with Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre in 1998.\n\nThe Holland Centre was named as a centre of excellence in joint replacement.\n\n"}
{"id": "45685198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45685198", "title": "Sunstar Group", "text": "Sunstar Group\n\nSunstar is a Japanese global oral care, health and beauty, chemicals, and motorcycle parts conglomerate with affiliates in 27 countries. Its main businesses are the development, manufacturing and sale of oral care products (toothpastes, toothbrushes and dental rinses) as well as of chemicals (building materials and automotive) and motorcycle parts (sprockets and braking disks). In recent years it has been expanding into the area of Cosmetics and Health Food.\n\nSunstar's founder, , established the Kaneda Keitai Shokai Company in Osaka, Japan in 1932 as a seller of rubber glue for bicycles. The introduction of metal tubes for packaging of the rubber glue - and later also toothpastes formed the basis for the early success of the business. The company since has developed into the leading oral care business in Japan with a significant international presence. The engineering business also has a leading position for several of its products in Japan and other markets. Group sales exceeded one billion United States dollars for the first time in the 1990s and are now at the level of 1.4 billion US dollars per year.\n\nAfter having been listed on the Osaka Securities Exchange since 1961, Sunstar undertook a management and employee buyout of all shares in 2007. The ownership of Sunstar Japan and the other group companies of the Consumer Goods Business was transferred to Switzerland and the Engineering business to Singapore, in an effort to accelerate globalization.\n\nKunio Kaneda founded Kaneda Keitei Shokai (Kaneda Brother's Company) in 1932 and began the manufacture and sale of rubber glue for bicycles. Applying the manufacturing technology used in pouring rubber glue into metal-tube containers, the company expanded by packaging toothpaste into metal tube containers in 1946, when mainstream dentifrices were still in powder form. This was the company's first toothpaste, which later formed its core business. This business grew and led to Sunstar's Oral Care and Health & Beauty businesses, which today emphasize the promotion of oral and whole body health. The company's name, \"Sunstar\", was derived from the idea of tooth brushing in the morning at sunrise and again at night under starlight.\n\nMeanwhile, the businesses of rubber glue and parts for bicycles developed into a synthetic, chemical adhesive and sealant business for automobile production and construction applications, as well as for motorcycle disc parts such as sprockets and brakes, namely its vehicle equipment division.\n\nSunstar continues to promote its further development of businesses in these four fields, after experiencing the following historical milestones:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12940766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12940766", "title": "Toric lens", "text": "Toric lens\n\nA toric lens is a lens with different optical power and focal length in two orientations perpendicular to each other. One of the lens surfaces is shaped like a \"cap\" from a torus (see figure at right), and the other one is usually spherical. Such a lens behaves like a combination of a spherical lens and a cylindrical lens. Toric lenses are used primarily in eyeglasses, contact lenses and intraocular lenses to correct astigmatism.\n\nA torus is the spatial body resulting when a circle with radius \"r\" rotates around an axis lying within the same plane as the circle, at a distance \"R\" from the circle's centre (see figure at right). If \"R\" > \"r\", a \"ring torus\" is produced. If \"R\" = \"r\", a \"horn torus\" is produced, where the opening is contracted into a single point. \"R\" < \"r\" results in a \"spindle torus\", where only two \"dips\" remain from the opening; these dips become less deep as \"R\" approaches 0. When \"R\" = 0, the torus degenerates into a sphere with radius \"r\".\n\nThe greatest radius of curvature of the toric lens surface, , corresponds to the smallest refractive power, \"S\", given by\n\nwhere \"n\" is the index of refraction of the lens material. \n\nThe smallest radius of curvature, \"r\", corresponds to the greatest refractive power, \"s\", given by\n\nSince , . The lens behaves approximately like a combination of a spherical lens with optical power \"s\" and a cylindrical lens with power . In ophthalmology and optometry, is called the \"cylinder power\" of the lens.\n\nNote that both the greatest and the smallest curvature have a \"circular\" shape. Consequently, in contrast with a popular assumption, the toric lens is \"not\" an ellipsoid of revolution.\n\nLight rays within the (\"x\",\"y\")-plane of the torus (as defined in the figure above) are refracted according to the greatest radius of curvature, , which means that it has the smallest refractive power, \"S\".\n\nLight rays within a plane through the axis of revolution (the \"z\" axis) of the torus are refracted according to the smallest radius of curvature, \"r\", which means that it has the greatest refractive power, \"s\".\n\nAs a consequence, there are two different refractive powers at orientations perpendicular to each other. At intermediate orientations, the refractive power changes gradually from the greatest to the smallest value, or reverse. This will compensate for the astigmatic aberration of the eye.\n\nWith modern computer-controlled design, grinding and polishing techniques, good vision corrections can be achieved for even wider angles of view by allowing certain deviations from the toric shape. This is called an \"atoric lens\" (literally, non-toric lens). They are related to toric lenses in the same way that aspheric lenses are related to spherical lenses.\n"}
{"id": "17079895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17079895", "title": "Tosca Reno", "text": "Tosca Reno\n\nTosca Reno (born May 22, 1959) is a New York Times best selling author who has written \"Your Best Body Now\" and the \"Eat-Clean Diet\" series. She is a certified Nutritional Therapy Practitioner. She is also a fitness model and columnist.\n\nTosca Reno graduated from Queen's University with a B.Sc., and from Toronto's York University with a B.Ed. She writes the monthly \"Raise the Bar\" column for Oxygen and is on the magazine's advisory board. She gives motivational seminars across North America and writes many articles on training and nutrition for magazines such as \"Maximum Fitness\", \"Reps!\", and \"Clean Eating\".\n\nShe has published a number of health and fitness books, including \"Tosca Reno's Eat Clean Cookbook\" which was nominated for the 2009 Gourmand World Cookbook Awards, and the \"New York Times\" best seller \"Your Best Body Now: Look and Feel Fabulous at Any Age the Eat-Clean Way\".\n\nReno is the widow of Robert Kennedy who founded Robert Kennedy Publishing in 1974 with the launch of \"MuscleMag International\" and was also an accomplished artist and art teacher. Reno and Kennedy met on a school playground where Reno taught Kennedy's daughter. Reno, a mother of three, was getting divorced; and the two started a relationship. Kennedy died of cancer on April 12, 2012.\n\nFollowing Kennedy's death Reno assumed the position of publisher and chief executive officer at Robert Kennedy Publishing.\n\nReno first began writing a monthly column for \"Oxygen\" and has since published 11 books with Robert Kennedy Publishing's book division, including the popular Eat-Clean Diet Series. In 2010 she became a New York Times bestselling author with her book \"Your Best Body Now: Look and Feel Fabulous at Any Age the Eat-Clean Way\".\n\nTosca was featured in a mini-reality series called \"Tosca: Flexing at 49\" in 2009. The eight-part series focused on her preparations for the final bodybuilding competition of her career. The series aired on the Viva Network in Canada in June, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "62462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62462", "title": "Umami", "text": "Umami\n\nUmami (, from ) or savory taste is one of the five basic tastes (together with sweetness, sourness, bitterness, and saltiness). It has been described as savory and is characteristic of broths and cooked meats.\n\nPeople taste umami through taste receptors that typically respond to glutamate, which is widely present in meat broths and fermented products and commonly added to some foods in the form of monosodium glutamate (MSG). Since umami has its own receptors rather than arising out of a combination of the traditionally recognized taste receptors, scientists now consider umami to be a distinct taste.\n\nA loanword from the Japanese , \"umami\" can be translated as \"pleasant savory taste\". This neologism was coined in 1908 by Japanese chemist Kikunae Ikeda from a nominalization of \"umai\" () \"delicious\". The compound (with \"mi\" () \"taste\") is used for a more general sense of a food as delicious.\n\nScientists have debated whether umami was a basic taste since Kikunae Ikeda first proposed its existence in 1908. In 1985, the term \"umami\" was recognized as the scientific term to describe the taste of glutamates and nucleotides at the first Umami International Symposium in Hawaii. Umami represents the taste of the amino acid L-glutamate and 5’-ribonucleotides such as guanosine monophosphate (GMP) and inosine monophosphate (IMP). It can be described as a pleasant \"brothy\" or \"meaty\" taste with a long-lasting, mouthwatering and coating sensation over the tongue.\n\nThe sensation of umami is due to the detection of the carboxylate anion of glutamate in specialized receptor cells present on the human and other animal tongues. Some 52 peptides may be responsible for detecting umami taste. Its effect is to balance taste and round out the overall flavor of a dish. Umami enhances the palatability of a wide variety of foods. Glutamate in acid form (glutamic acid) imparts little umami taste, whereas the salts of glutamic acid, known as glutamates, give the characteristic umami taste due to their ionized state. GMP and IMP amplify the taste intensity of glutamate.\nAdding salt to the free acids also enhances the umami taste.\n\nMonosodium L-aspartate has an umami taste about four times less intense than MSG whereas ibotenic acid and tricholomic acid (likely as their salts or with salt) are claimed to be many times more intense.\n\nGlutamate has a long history in cooking. Fermented fish sauces (garum), which are rich in glutamate, were used widely in ancient Rome, fermented barley sauces (murri) rich in glutamate were used in medieval Byzantine and Arab cuisine, and fermented fish sauces and soy sauces have histories going back to the 3rd century in China. In the late-1800s, chef Auguste Escoffier, who opened restaurants in Paris and London, created meals that combined umami with salty, sour, sweet and bitter tastes. He did not know the chemical source of this unique quality, however.\n\nUmami was first scientifically identified in 1908 by Kikunae Ikeda, a professor of the Tokyo Imperial University. He found that glutamate was responsible for the palatability of the broth from \"kombu\" seaweed. He noticed that the taste of \"kombu\" \"dashi\" was distinct from sweet, sour, bitter, and salty and named it \"umami\".\n\nProfessor Shintaro Kodama, a disciple of Ikeda, discovered in 1913 that dried bonito flakes contained another umami substance. This was the ribonucleotide IMP. In 1957, Akira Kuninaka realized that the ribonucleotide GMP present in shiitake mushrooms also conferred the umami taste. One of Kuninaka's most important discoveries was the synergistic effect between ribonucleotides and glutamate. When foods rich in glutamate are combined with ingredients that have ribonucleotides, the resulting taste intensity is higher than would be expected from merely adding the intensity of the individual ingredients.\n\nThis synergy of umami may explain various classical foodpairings: Japanese make \"dashi\" with \"kombu\" seaweed and dried bonito flakes; the Chinese add Chinese leek and Chinese cabbage to chicken soup, as do Scots in the similar Scottish dish of cock-a-leekie soup; and Italians combine Parmesan cheese on tomato sauce with mushrooms.\n\nUmami has a mild but lasting aftertaste associated with salivation and a sensation of furriness on the tongue, stimulating the throat, the roof and the back of the mouth. By itself, umami is not palatable, but it makes a great variety of foods pleasant, especially in the presence of a matching aroma. Like other basic tastes, umami is pleasant only within a relatively narrow concentration range.\n\nThe optimum umami taste depends also on the amount of salt, and at the same time, low-salt foods can maintain a satisfactory taste with the appropriate amount of umami. One study showed that ratings of pleasantness, taste intensity, and ideal saltiness of low-salt soups were greater when the soup contained umami, whereas low-salt soups without umami were less pleasant. Another study demonstrated that using fish sauce as a source of umami could reduce the need for salt by 10–25% to flavor such foods as chicken broth, tomato sauce or coconut curry while maintaining overall taste intensity.\n\nSome population groups, such as the elderly, may benefit from umami taste because their taste and smell sensitivity is impaired by age and medication. The loss of taste and smell can contribute to poor nutrition, increasing their risk of disease. Some evidence exists to show umami not only stimulates appetite, but also may contribute to satiety.\n\nMany foods that may be consumed daily are naturally rich in umami components. Glutamate in the form of inosinate comes primarily from meats whereas guanylate comes primarily from vegetables. Mushrooms, especially dried shiitake, are sources of umami flavor from guanylate. Smoked, or fermented fish are high in inosinate, and shellfish in adenylate.\n\nGenerally, umami taste is common to foods that contain high levels of L-glutamate, IMP and GMP, most notably in fish, shellfish, cured meats, mushrooms, vegetables (e.g., ripe tomatoes, Chinese cabbage, spinach, celery, etc.) or green tea, and fermented and aged products involving bacterial or yeast cultures, such as cheeses, shrimp pastes, fish sauce, soy sauce, nutritional yeast, and yeast extracts such as Vegemite and Marmite.\n\nMany humans' first encounter with umami components is breast milk. It contains roughly the same amount of umami as broths.\n\nThere are some distinctions among stocks from different countries. In \"dashi\", L-glutamate comes from sea \"kombu\" (\"Laminaria japonica\") and inosinate from dried bonito flakes (\"katsuobushi\") or dried sardines (\"niboshi\").\n\nMost taste buds on the tongue and other regions of the mouth can detect umami taste, irrespective of their location. The tongue map in which different tastes are distributed in different regions of the tongue is a common misconception. Biochemical studies have identified the taste receptors responsible for the sense of umami as modified forms of mGluR4, mGluR1 and taste receptor type 1 (T1R1 + T1R3), all of which have been found in all regions of the tongue bearing taste buds. A 2009 review corroborated the acceptance of these receptors, stating, \"Recent molecular biological studies have now identified strong candidates for umami receptors, including the heterodimer T1R1/T1R3, and truncated type 1 and 4 metabotropic glutamate receptors missing most of the N-terminal extracellular domain (taste-mGluR4 and truncated-mGluR1) and brain-mGluR4.\"\n\nReceptors mGluR1 and mGluR4 are specific to glutamate whereas T1R1 + T1R3 are responsible for the synergism already described by Akira Kuninaka in 1957. However, the specific role of each type of receptor in taste bud cells remains unclear. They are G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) with similar signaling molecules that include G proteins beta-gamma, PLCB2 and PI3-mediated release of calcium (Ca) from intracellular stores. Calcium activates the selective cation channel transient receptor potential melastatin 5 (TRPM5) that leads to membrane depolarization and the consequent release of ATP and secretion of neurotransmitters including serotonin.\n\nCells responding to umami taste stimuli do not possess typical synapses, but ATP conveys taste signals to gustatory nerves and in turn to the brain that interprets and identifies the taste quality via the gut-brain axis.\n\nUmami has become popular as a flavor with food manufacturers trying to improve the taste of low sodium offerings. Chefs create \"umami bombs\", which are dishes made of several umami ingredients like fish sauce. Umami may account for the long-term formulation and popularity of ketchup. The United States Food and Drug Administration has designated the umami enhancer monosodium glutamate (MSG) as a safe ingredient. While some people identify themselves as sensitive to MSG, a study commissioned by the FDA was only able to identify transient, mild symptoms in a few of the subjects, and only when the MSG was consumed in unrealistically large quantities.\n\n"}
{"id": "28714501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28714501", "title": "Universal American", "text": "Universal American\n\nUniversal American () is a Fortune 1000 company with offices throughout the United States, and headquarters in Rye Brook, New York. The company offers health insurance, and also deals in Medicare managed care plans, and Medicare prescription drug benefits. Subsidiaries include Heritage Health Systems, Inc.. Its CEO is Richard A. Barasch.\n\nUniversal American Corporation (UA) is an insurance, Finance and administrative services company that specializes in offering products to the senior and self-employed markets. \nUA Corp has targeted the senior market in particular because it is the fastest growing demographic segment in the country.\nUAC contracts with the federal government to offer Medicare Advantages with Prescription Drug Plans. Universal American is currently the 3rd largest Medicare Prescription Drug Plan organization and the Fifth largest Medicare Advantage Private-Fee-for-Service organization in the U.S. Universal American is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the ticker symbol UAM. \n\nAs of November 17, 2016, WellCare, Inc., has agreed to acquire Universal American for ~$600M.\n"}
{"id": "43423826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43423826", "title": "Veligonda Project", "text": "Veligonda Project\n\nVeligonda Project is an under construction irrigation project located in Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh, India. When completed, the project will provide irrigational facilities to 459,000 Acres and drinking water to 1.5 million people in 29 Mandals of fluorine and drought affected areas in Prakasam district, Nellore district and Kadapa district by diverting 43.5 TMC of floodwater of Krishna River from foreshore of Srisailam Reservoir near Kollamvagu and proposed to store in Nallamalasagar Reservoir.\nThe water for the project is drawn through two 18.8 km long tunnels across Nallamala hills. The project has been renamed to Poola Subbaiah irrigation project.\n\nThe construction includes two parallel tunnels of 18.8 km with 9.2 m and 7 m internal diameter and 21.6 km Flood flow canal for the water transmission system linking with Srisailam Reservoir up to Guntur-Kurnool road. The project is being implemented by double shielded tunnel boring machine to make the tunnel without disturbing wildlife in the Nagarjunsagar-Srisailam Tiger Reserve.\n\nAs of June 2018, 15.2  km of tunnel digging had been completed for the first tunnel, and 10.8 km had been completed for the second tunnel.\n\nOnly a little progress has been made in the past few years by contractors citing the equipment problems and payment issues with government. Re-tendering of incomplete works is being done by terminating earlier contracts for both tunnels. Completion of first phase works are not expected before December 2019.\n"}
{"id": "8629418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8629418", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Colombia", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Colombia\n\n\"This article was last updated on substance in August 2012. However, sections of this article are older and may need to be updated. Feel free to update this article wherever needed.\n\nWater supply and sanitation in Colombia has been improved in many ways over the past decades. Between 1990 and 2010, access to improved sanitation increased from 67% to 82%, but access to improved water source's increased only slightly from 89% to 94%. In particular, coverage in rural areas lags behind. Furthermore, despite improvements, the quality of water and sanitation services remains inadequate. For example, only 73% of those receiving public services receive water of potable quality and in 2006 only 25% of the wastewater generated in the country underwent any kind of treatment.\n\nA comprehensive sector policy, introduced in 1994, aimed at increasing water and sanitation investments through targeted transfers to municipalities, improving service quality and efficiency by promoting private sector participation in the poorest parts of the country where utilities were not performing well, the establishment of autonomous regulatory agencies at the national level, increased cost recovery, and protecting the poorest through cross-subsidies in the form of area-based tariffs. This same policy has been pursued and refined by different consecutive governments.\n\nResponsibilities in the sector are divided as follows: \n\nCost recovery in the sector has improved substantially. Between 1990 and 2001, the average tariff for water and sanitation in Colombia increased from US$0.32/m3 to US$0.81/m3, equivalent to an increase of 153%. As a result, 24% of investments were self-financed by utilities in 2004. Other features of the sector are the existence of some large, well-performing public companies; a strong and stable participation by the local private sector in service provision; and some well-performing community-based organizations in peri-urban areas.\n\nRecently, the government of Álvaro Uribe has initiated a number of complementary policies to accelerate increases in access to water and sanitation services, such as the strengthening of the roles of departments in the governance of the sector, a program for marginal urban neighborhoods and an increase in investments for wastewater treatment.\n\nIn 2015, in Colombia 91% of the population had access to \"improved\" water, 97% and 74%, in urban and rural areas, respectively. In 2015, there were still around 4 million lacking access to \"improved\" water. Regarding sanitation, 81% of the population had access to \"improved\" sanitation, 85% and 68%, in urban and rural areas, respectively.\n\nIn addition to issues of service coverage, Colombia’s water and sanitation sector faces issues of service quality. However, service quality has improved considerably over the last fifteen years. The biggest cities tend to offer better service quality than smaller towns and rural areas.\n\n\"Continuity of supply.\" The average duration of daily water service has increased from 15.36 hours in 1993 to 19.82 hours in 2003 at the national level. In the four biggest cities of the country, service is continuous. Nevertheless, rationing of water and interrupted sanitation are ordinary incidents in small towns and rural areas.\n\n\"Drinking water quality.\" According to a survey of the \"Superintendencia de Servicios Públicos Domiciliarios\" (SSPD) or Superintendency for Residential Public Services in 2004, 72% of the users had water of potable quality. In some cases, the water supply system’s pressure is not adequate, increasing the risk of bacterial contamination.\n\n\"Sewerage.\" Sewage collection systems do not have sufficient hydraulic capacity to handle wastewater flows, especially in poor neighborhoods, which results in combined sewer overflows and sanitary sewer overflows.\n\n\"Wastewater treatment\". In 2006, 25% of the wastewater generated in the country underwent some kind of treatment. The remaining 75% is discharged without any treatment, contaminating a significant part of the natural water resources.\n\nThe water and sanitation sector in Colombia underwent one cycle of centralization and decentralization within the past several decades. Since the enactment of a comprehensive new sector policy in 1994, various governments have pursued the same set of basic policies, including targeted transfers to municipalities, private sector participation, regulation, cost recovery and a system of cross-subsidies.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century, municipalities were responsible for the provision of basic water and sanitation services in Colombia. In 1950, similar to many other countries, a centralized system was adopted and the \"Instituto de Fomento Municipal\" (INSFOPAL) or Municipal Development Institute was created. \n\"Empresas Departamentales de Acueducto y Alcantarillado\" (ACUAS) or Departmental Water and Sewerage Companies were created, consisting of the departments, the municipalities and INSFOPAL, which took care of managing and maintaining the infrastructure of the member communities. In that way, investment at the national level was channelled into this important area of public health.\n\nIn 1976, within the framework of a change in sector policies, the ACUAS were transformed into Empresas de Obras Sanitarias (EMPOS) or Sanitary Works Companies at the regional or municipal level, which were put in charge of financing, planning, developing and managing public services in most municipalities. \nHowever, some municipalities kept the responsibility for service provision at the local level and created municipal companies. The most notable case are the Empresas Públicas de Medellín (EPM), a municipally owned multi-sector utility created in 1955.\n\nAt the national level, the water sector institutionally depended on the Ministry of Health.\n\nIn the 1980s, the sector was in crisis, characterized by low investment, poor cost recovery and poor service quality in most of the country. As a result, the government decided to break up INSFOPAL at the end of the 1980s and to devolve the responsibility for service provision back to the municipalities after four decades, except for some cases like the Valle de Cauca department, where the regional companies continued providing the services. Furthermore, the institutional responsibility for the sector was transferred from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Economic Development. This change was not only an administrative change, but it introduced a different focus and perspective to the sector.\n\nThe two liberal governments of César Gaviria (1990-1994) and Ernesto Samper (1994-1998) pursued a policy of economic opening and business modernization. In the spirit of these policies, the government established a comprehensive new sector policy that aimed at increasing water and sanitation investments through targeted transfers to municipalities, improving service quality and efficiency by promoting private sector participation in the poorest parts of the country where public utilities were not performing well, the establishment of autonomous regulatory agencies at the national level, increased cost recovery, and protecting the poorest through cross-subsidies in the form of area-based tariffs. The basis of this sector policy was established by Law 142 of July 1994, at the end of president César Gaviria’s term of office. With some modifications to that law in 2001, the same policy continues to be pursued to today despite several changes of governments.\n\nIn 1995, the first water and sanitation concession in Colombia was given to a mixed public-private company in the city of Cartagena, followed by a second concession in Barranquilla in 1996 and more concessions in the next years. In 2002, the government launched a program of business modernization to introduce private sector participation also in small and medium-sized municipalities, leading to significant improvements in quality and efficiency of service provision in some municipalities. Drinking water use has decreased by 25% between 1996 and 2001. Tariff increases and the inclusion of low income users who did not have access to piped water before influenced this trend.\n\nThe government of Álvaro Uribe wants to rapidly increase coverage, overtaking the Millennium Development Goals for the sector and to improve service quality, especially in small towns and rural areas, which have the highest requirement of service improvement.\n\nAt the end of 2006, a Vice-Ministry for Water and Sanitation was created. It has initiated four new programs:\n\nThe Departmental Water and Sanitation Plans program provides such services as planning and harmonizing resources and has regional systems of service provision at the level of each department of the country. The program was first implemented in four departments which have some of the most difficult conditions: Sucre, Córdoba, Magdalena and La Guajira. The program also aimed to overcome the sector’s fragmentation into many small utilities to benefit from economies of scale. In 2010 30 Departmental Plans were completed and published, covering almost all of the country's 32 departments.\n\nIn about 2011, the responsibility for water supply and sanitation, and with it the Vice-Ministry, was transferred to the newly created Ministry of Housing, Cities and Territories. As of August 2012, the Vice-Ministry's website made no more reference to the Departmental Water and Sanitation Plans. The handwashing program, the SPA and SAVER were still in place. In addition, two new programs were started:\n\n\nThe current responsibilities and policies in the water and sanitation sector in Colombia are primarily defined in the 1991 constitution and in Law 142 of 1994 (\"Ley de Servicios Públicos Domiciliarios\" or Public Housing Services Law)\n\nThe Vice-Ministry of Water and Sanitation, created in October 2006 within the Ministry of Environment, Housing and Territorial Development is in charge of setting sector policy. This sector policy is defined in the framework of national policy established by the \"Departamento Nacional de Planificación\" (DNP) or National Planning Department.\n\nResponsibility for regulating water services is vested in two separate institutions at the national level. The \"Comisión de Regulación de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Básico\" (CRA) or Potable Water and Basic Sanitation Regulatory Commission defines criteria for efficient service provision and sets the rules for tariff revision, but is not in charge of controlling the application of these rules. The latter is the responsibility of the \"Superintendencia de Servicios Públicos Domiciliarios\" (SSPD) or Superintendency for Residential Public Services, a multi-sector regulatory agency.\n\nThe Government aims at improving the performance of the water and sanitation sector through: (1) strengthening the regulatory framework; (2) implementing technical assistance programs; (3) providing financial support to promote modernization and efficient management as well as to subsidize the poor; and (4) rationalizing the institutional framework at the national level to improve coordination in the sector. The government also supports private sector participation in the sector.\n\nColombian municipalities are responsible for “ensuring that their inhabitants are given domestic services of water supply and sanitation in an efficient way by public companies”. Therefore, public utilities are directly responsible for service provision, except for some special cases defined in the law, in which municipalities can offer the services directly. In rural areas and some marginal urban areas, communal water boards also offer water supply services.\n\nOver the last few years, the number of companies has increased and the direct service provision by municipalities has decreased. To simplify the process of changing suppliers' ownership structure, municipal utilities were transformed into public stock corporations, which allow private sector participation without a further change of the legal status. In 2006, 53% of all suppliers were public companies, the remainder being direct municipal suppliers (15%), private companies (12%), official companies, which are companies that are not specialized in water and sanitation (13%), mixed companies (6%) and authorized organizations (1%). Smaller utilities included, there are more than 1,500 water and sanitation service providers of in urban areas, and probably more than 12,000 communal organizations providing services in rural areas.\n\nThe sector is characterized by a high degree of fragmentation which makes it difficult to realize economies of scale, according to a World Bank study. To solve this problem, the creation of regional companies has been suggested.\n\nMost Colombian cities - including the three largest ones, Bogota, Medellin and Cali - are served by public utilities. However, the private sector also plays an important role, including 125 private and 48 mixed public-private water companies in 2004 out of 1,500 urban service providers.\n\nSome of Colombia's larger cities are home to well-performing public utilities, some of them providing multiple services, others being specialized in water and sanitation only. The Empresas Públicas de Medellín or Public Companies of Medellín, is a municipally owned multi-sector utility in charge of water supply, sanitation, solid waste management, electricity generation and distribution as well as local telecommunications in Medellín and its surrounding areas.\n\nAnother multi-sector utility is the Empresas Municipales de Cali (Emcali), which provides fixed line local telecoms, Internet, potable water, sewage and electricity services to some 600,000 clients. EMCALI has suffered financially due to onerous payment obligations resulting from a Power Purchase Agreement signed in 1997 with an Independent Power Producer, TermoEmcali.\n\nThe capital of Colombia, Bogotá, is served by a water and sanitation utility, the \"Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogotá\" (EAAB).\n\nPrivate sector participation in Colombia's water and sanitation sector has been much more stable than in some other Latin American countries. In 2004, there were 125 private and 48 mixed public-private water companies in Colombia, including large, medium and small companies. Private sector involvement in the Colombian water sector began in 1995 in Cartagena, with support from the World Bank. The most important examples are in Cartagena, Barranquilla, Santa Marta, Tunja, Montería, Palmira, Girardot, and Riohacha. Operators are to a large extent Colombian. Overall performance of utilities with private sector participation has improved, in some cases spectacularly, and some – such as Barranquilla – have had impressive successes in expanding coverage to the urban poor.\n\nAccording to a World Bank report, the key to success of private sector participation in the Colombian water sector has been the development of homegrown solutions, and, at times, skillfully adapting models used elsewhere to the particular circumstances and culture of Colombia.\n\nThe World Bank's Private Participation in Infrastructure Database shows private investment commitments in water supply and sanitation of US$940 million from 1995 to 2006 through 51 transactions, including 27 classified as concessions, 22 as management and lease contracts, and 2 as greenfield projects.\n\nIn some smaller towns and peri-urban areas, there are examples of successful provision of water supply and sanitation services by community organizations and regional companies, which in some cases set an example in terms of community empowerment, transparency and accountability.\n\nAn example of a regional association is Acuavalle S.A. ESP, which provides drinking water and sanitation to 582,000 inhabitants in 33 municipalities of the Valle del Cauca department. It was founded as a non-profit public limited company in 1959. The shareholders of the company are the Valle del Cauca department, the ‘’Corporación Autónoma regional del valle del Cauce’’ and 33 municipalities, which are served by the utility.\n\nAnother example, is the \"Junta Administradora del Acueducto La Sirena en el Valle del Cauca\" (Water Board La Sirena) in the southwestern outskirts of Cali, which manages 778 residential connections, offering continuous service to some 4,200 users. It operates a sewerage system and a wastewater treatment plant. Water consumption is metered. The average monthly tariff is US$3.5 for 28m3. There is no social stratification, but special tariffs are applied to those users who consume more than 28m3. The annual cash surplus is about US$10,000 which is reinvested in preventive maintenance and in some cases in construction works. In this way, in the last 3 years a water capture facility was constructed in Quebrada Epaminondas, another one at Melendez River was improved, and a water tank with a capacity of 220m3 was constructed.\n\nAnother example is the \"Asociación Acueducto de Río Negro de Popayán\", which was formed 10 years ago integrating 10 supply systems, supplying 7,000 residential connections. The association is preparing its own water treatment plant and preparing to install meters with the aid of the Colombian organization \"Asociados en Desarrollo Rural\" (ADR) or Associates in Rural Development and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).\n\nCoverage in rural areas is unusually low, given the level of economic development and sector development. Using a broad definition of access, based on the WHO definition of an improved water source, access in rural areas in Colombia was 71%, while it was 81% in Honduras - a considerably poorer country - and 89% in Ecuador, also a poorer country than Colombia.\n\nIn addition to the armed conflict, there are other explanations for this situation: Municipalities tend to use their financial resources from the \"Sistema General de Participaciones\" or General Participation System (Law 715 of 2001) mainly in urban areas. Furthermore, there is no institution or program at the national level which offers technical assistance to the 12,000 rural community organizations. Law 142 of 1994 assigns that task to the departments, but these have not carried out the task in a satisfactory way so far.\n\nThe 2002 \"Inventario Sanitario Rural\" (ISR) or Rural Sanitary Register confirms that situation. Only 21% of the rural community organizations were considered able to carry out maintenance and only 10% to commercially operate the service. Only 32% issued bills and only 10% used metering. In 2005, the government defined guidelines for basic water supply and sanitation policy in rural areas to increase coverage and improve quality in those areas.\n\nIn addition a GIS study published in 2014 documented that for many rural areas the time needed to drive to water testing labs than is longer than the sample is viable.\n\nSince 1994 Colombia has pioneered many innovative approaches for basic service provision in general and for water supply and sanitation in particular.\n\nSome of them were introduced at the national level, while others were initiated in one city or region. Notable innovations at the national level are the introduction of two autonomous economic regulatory agencies (one, CRA, to develop and fine-tune regulatory tools in the water and sanitation sector, and another one, SSPD, to implement them in across all basic services) in 1994; the introduction of as a basis for spatially differentiated tariffs, also in 1994; and the spatial aggregation of municipal service providers in small towns at the departmental level to benefit from economies of scale since 2006, with strong support from the national government.\n\nA notable innovation initiated by a city or a region is the creation of mixed public-private enterprises for urban water supply that has begun in 1995 in Cartagena, followed by Barranquilla and other Northern and Central cities and towns. Another innovation is an association of community-based organizations (CBOs) providing water supply in rural and peri-urban areas in the departments of El Valle, Cauca and Risaralda in Southwestern Colombia. It began in the late 1990s with the assistance of the Universidad del Valle in Cali in order to protect and recover source watersheds and to strengthen the CBOs' capacity to administrate, operate and maintain their water systems.\n\nIn addition, Colombia boasts one of the oldest and largest multi-utilities in Latin America, Empresas Públicas de Medellín (EPM), created in 1955.\n\nThe average level of non-revenue water (physical and economic losses) in Colombia in 2006 is estimated to be 49%. This level is higher than the Latin American average (approximately 40%) and the regulatory goal of 30%. In the past, the national average of non-revenue water was estimated 40% in 2001, which is almost the same as in 1990. In the largest cities of the country, levels of non-revenue water are below the national average (40% in Bogotá, 35% in Medellín and 39% in Cali).\n\nThe Colombian tariff system is defined in the \"Ley de Servicios Públicos\" or Public Services Law from 1994. It is applied in public, mixed and private companies. The tariff system aims at reconciling the achievement of cost recovery with the protection of the poor. The basic tariff is calculated on the basis of economic costs according to a methodology defined at the national level by CRA (Law 287 of 2004). Therefore, in principle, tariffs in different municipalities do not differ due to local government’s decisions to raise tariffs or not, but only because of the different costs of the services.\n\nThe base tariff of each service provider has to be adjusted by law for different geographic areas within the city, each assumed to correspond to one socio-economic class, according to adjustment factors that are specified by law. This system of area-based tariffs is supposed to provide cross-subsidies from more affluent to poorer users. Every municipality has defined geographic areas that each correspond to one of the six socio-economic classes. Class 1 represents the lowest income group while class 6 stands for the highest. As per 2007, the tariff adjustment factors were the following:\n\nThere are many more citizens who live in areas corresponding to classes 1–3 than those who live in the areas corresponding to classes 5 and 6. For example, in Bogotá 73% of the population live in zones of classes 1–3, whereas only 10% live in zones classified as 5 and 6. Consequently, the tariff system permanently causes deficits which require subsidies paid by the national government.\n\nBetween 1990 and 2001, the average tariff for water and sanitation in Colombia increased from US$0.32/m3 to US$0.81/m3, equivalent to an increase of 153%. In 2006, the average monthly bill for residential customers was about US$6.80 for water supply and US$4.60 for sanitation services.\n\nFree basic water. Inspired by the Human Right to Water, two important cities in Colombia make a basic amount of water (\"Minimo Vital de Agua Potable\") available to their poorest residents free of charge. In 2009, Medellin made 2.5 cubic meters of water per month and per person - or 10 cubic meters for a family of four - available for free to all urban residents in class 1. The city wants to reach 45,000 households and has budgeted 25 billion Pesos (USD 14 million) to finance free basic water and associated awareness campaigns. In February 2012 Bogota also introduced 6 cubic meters of free basic water per household for households in classes 1 and 2, covering more than 1.5 million households or 39% of all households. The annual cost is estimated at 60 billion Pesos (USD 33 million).\n\nBetween 1995 and 2003, US$3.4 billion (7,965 billion Colombian pesos) were invested in the sector, of which 16% were financed by the private sector. Since 1998, private financing increased from almost zero to become a significant share of the total investment. Furthermore, despite a drop in 2001, investment in the sector has increased since 1999.\n\nThe SSPD forecasts a total investment of US$2.2 billion (4,922 billion Colombian pesos) in the water and sanitation sector from 2007 to 2017\n\nThe Minister of Environment, Housing and Territorial Development announced in May 2008 that US$5.2 million (9.2 billion Colombian pesos) will be spent in order to facilitate the construction of facilities in areas without access to drinking water. The national government will control the destination of the resources and guarantees transparency in the whole spending process. According to the minister, Colombia should already have reached full drinking water coverage, given the past investments in the sector.\n\nAccording to the ministry, the investments were mainly financed through three sources: self-financing, funding by the national government and charges for the extraction of petroleum and carbon.\n\nA World Bank study estimates an investment of US$411m in 2004, which was financed as follows:\n\n\nAccording to the report, the average annual transfers from the national government to the municipalities for water supply and sanitation (including solid waste) were about US$278m between 1998 and 2001. 86% of that funding was allocated through the SGP as defined in Law 715. A certain percentage of these resources was dedicated exclusively for water supply and sanitation. They mainly go to small municipalities that show low income levels. Nevertheless, many municipalities use funding through SGP dedicated for water supply and sanitation for other purposes.\n\nThe CAR receive property tax, electric power utilities, environmental charges for extracting water and charges for discharging waste water.\n\nThe main external cooperation partners for the Colombian water and sanitation sector are the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the Andean Development Corporation (CAF).\n\nThe World Bank supports the sector through dedicated water and sanitation projects, as well as through water and sanitation components in other, broader projects.\n\n\"Dedicated water and sanitation projects:\"\n\n\"Non-dedicated projects:\"\n\n\nCAF supports the sector through a USD 42.5 million loan to the Cesar Department in 2006 and a USD 58.1 million loan to the Empresas Aguas del Magdalena approved in 2007.\nFor information on CAF projects in Colombia see: CAF Colombia\n\n\nDocuments\n\nPolicy and regulation\n\nService providers\n"}
{"id": "1268241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1268241", "title": "Xerox murders", "text": "Xerox murders\n\nThe Xerox murders was an incident of mass murder that occurred on November 2, 1999, in a Xerox Corporation building in Honolulu, Hawaii, United States. Service technician Byran Koji Uyesugi shot at eight people; wounding seven fatally (six co-workers and his supervisor). This was the worst mass murder in the history of Hawaii.\n\nAt 8:00 in the morning, Byran Koji Uyesugi, a service technician working at Xerox, opened fire inside the building with a semi-automatic pistol, killing his supervisor and six co-workers, and fired in the direction of another co-worker who fled the building. The eighth person escaped without injury.\n\nAfter the shooting, Uyesugi fled in a company van, and by mid-morning, he was found sitting in the van near the Hawaii Nature Center in Makiki, above downtown Honolulu. He held a standoff with police that lasted for five hours, during which he brandished a pistol, read magazines and smoked cigarettes. Adding to the tension of the standoff, the Hawaii Nature Center was hosting thirty-five local school children, who were trapped inside without food or water. Uyesugi surrendered to police at approximately 3:00 p.m. HST.\n\n\nBorn in Honolulu in 1959, Byran Koji Uyesugi grew up in the Nuuanu neighborhood. While attending Roosevelt High School, Uyesugi was a member of the school's Army JROTC chapter and the school's rifle team. Classmates remembered him as a quiet student who never got into trouble. According to his brother Dennis, Uyesugi crashed their father's car and hit his head on the windshield shortly after graduating high school in 1977; he was never the same.\n\nUyesugi had been employed by Xerox as a technician since 1984. Among his hobbies was raising and breeding goldfish and \"koi\", which he would sell to local pet stores. He had an extensive collection of firearms. At the time of the murders he had as many as 25 guns registered in his name, dating to 1982. Police also took eleven handguns, five rifles and two shotguns from Uyesugi's father.\n\nAccording to testimony from Uyesugi's father, Hiroyuki, Uyesugi was normal until he started working for Xerox in 1984. In 1988, Byran started to complain that he had a poking sensation in his head.\n\nAfter being transferred to another workgroup, Uyesugi began making unfounded accusations of harassment and product tampering against fellow repairmen. They had difficulty dealing with him. Former co-workers who knew him reported the other members of his team allegedly ostracized him, making him feel isolated and withdrawn. Uyesugi reportedly made threats against other co-workers' lives. In 1993, he was ordered to undergo psychiatric evaluation and anger management courses after he kicked in and damaged an elevator door. Uyesugi was arrested for third-degree criminal property damage. Co-workers told Dr. Michael Welner, chairman of the Forensic Panel and the forensic psychiatrist who interviewed Uyesugi prior to trial, that as early as 1995, Uyesugi was openly talking of carrying out a mass shooting at the workplace were he to be fired. He complained that his co-workers were engaged in patterns of harassment, back-stabbing behavior, and spreading of rumors.\n\nIn the period leading up to the shootings, Xerox management had become increasingly committed to phasing out the type of photocopier that Uyesugi serviced. He resisted learning the replacement machine, fearing that he could not keep up with its technical demands. After working around his refusal to train on the new machine, Uyesugi's manager insisted on November 1, 1999 that he would begin training the next day. In his interview with Dr. Michael Welner, who examined Uyesugi when the defendant brought an insanity defense, Uyesugi said he had believed that if he refused to take the training, management would fire him. He told Dr. Welner, \"I decided to give them a reason to fire me.\"\n\nForty-year-old Byran Uyesugi's month-long trial began on May 15, 2000. He was charged with one count of murder in the first degree (count 1), seven counts of murder in the second degree (counts 2-8), and one count of attempted murder in the second degree (count 9). Prior to the close of the trial, counts 2-8 were merged into count 1.\n\nThe Prosecuting Attorney of Honolulu Peter Carlisle and Deputy Prosecuting Attorneys Christopher Van Marter and Kevin Takata represented the State of Hawaii. Criminal Defense Attorneys Jerel Fonseca and Rodney Ching of the law firm Fonseca & Ching represented Uyesugi.\n\nUyesugi pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity and claimed that he felt like an outcast at work and that he feared his colleagues were conspiring to have him fired. Dr. Park Dietz and Dr. Daryl Matthews testified for the defense that he was insane, citing the delusions about how others were tampering with his fish. Lead prosecution expert witness Dr. Harold Hall testified that the Defendant fulfilled the criteria for a diagnosis of schizophrenia, but he did not meet the criteria for either insanity or extreme emotion or mental disturbance (EMED). Dr. Michael Welner testified for the prosecution that although Mr. Uyesugi was in his opinion a schizophrenic, he carried out the shooting because he was angry that he would be fired for insubordination, and that his own account of concealment before the crime demonstrated that he knew what he had done was wrong.\n\nOn June 13, 2000, the jury rejected the insanity defense, finding Uyesugi guilty on count 1 for the seven murders and count 9 for the attempted murder. On August 8, 2000, Judge Marie N. Milks sentenced Uyesugi to life without the possibility of parole for count 1 and life with the possibility of parole on count 9, with the sentences to run consecutively. The court also ordered Uyesugi to pay $500 in restitution and $70,000 to the crime victim compensation fund. Hawaii does not have the death penalty. The parole board later ordered Uyesugi to serve a minimum term of 235 years in prison, the longest ever ordered for a Hawaii inmate.\nUyesugi appealed his convictions. In 2002, the State of Hawaii Supreme Court upheld Uyesugi's conviction. In 2004, Uyesugi was considering fighting his conviction based on Rule 40, inadequate representation by his lawyers in his first trial.\n\nIn 2005, Xerox and the hospital that examined Uyesugi settled a civil lawsuit brought by the families of the shooting victims. They believed that both parties had failed to take preventive action based on what they said were clear signs of Uyesugi's mental instability.\n\nAs of October 10, 2017, Uyesugi was incarcerated at the Saguaro Correctional Center in Eloy, Arizona.\n\nXerox vacated the premises at 1200 N. Nimitz Highway after the shooting. This facility was vacant until 2004, when the producers of the TV show \"Lost\" built a sound stage there to film indoor scenes. Dal-Tile currently leases the property from the Weinberg Foundation for its tile and natural stone showroom.\n\nThe state legislature passed a law that requires doctors to reveal information about the mental state of persons applying to buy guns.\n\n\n"}
