{"id": "51781811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51781811", "title": "Acting coach", "text": "Acting coach\n\nAn acting coach or drama coach is a teacher who trains performers–typically film, television, theatre and, musical theatre actors–and gives them advice and mentoring to enable them to improve their acting and dramatic performances, prepare for auditions and prepare better for roles.\nActing coaches need to have a \"talent...for reading people, all their utterances and body language.\" Acting coaches have been called \"people whisperers\", a reference to \"horse whisperers\" who help to train animals. Acting coach Ivana Chubbuck states that one of her roles is to ensure that \"every actor...must know what the character's objective is in a scene—to win someone's love, respect, sympathy, whatever—and then must have a ruthlessness about achieving the objective.\" Chubbuck works with actors to help them to connect with the emotion inside the character. Acting coaches also \"...help [drama] students audition for college\". Acting coach and actor Woodell-Mascall is \"...skilled at zeroing in on what young actors need to do to improve their performance.\" Woodell-Mascall tells one student actor to \"...really think about who [the character] is and what she's feeling. It's got to be real. She provides constructive criticism to students. Woodell-Mascall has helped students to get into drama programs at schools \"...including NYU, Juilliard, Rutgers and UCLA\". Some acting coaches use an \"...approach and technique of acting training [that] are considered established, proven methods of creating the [dramatic] work\", such as using the \"...methodology of Constantin Stanislavski, Stella Adler, Uta Hagen, Lee Strasberg, and Sanford Meisner.\"\n\nSome acting coaches provide students with a DVD or SD card recording of their acting, for the student to review their progress.\n\nMajor acting coaches include: Larry Moss, Ivana Chubbuck, Michelle Danner, Terry Schreiber, David Mamet, Lee Strasberg, Michael Woolson, Stella Adler, Chambers Stevens, and Sanford Meisner.\n\nActing coaches may be freelancers who are hired for an hourly or daily rate, or they may be hired on a longer-term basis by a film studio, production company or theatre company. Some acting coaches have developed their own unique methods and founded their own acting schools. Acting coaches' income varies a great deal from one coach to another. For example, an acting coach providing training to a community theatre troupe or a high school musical earns much less than an acting coach training top Hollywood celebrities. Acting classes are often provided in person; however, with the widespread availability of high-speed Internet, some coaches offer mentoring online over Skype or other video linkups. Acting coaches may offer private coaching, group sessions or a combination of both.\n\nIn some cases, acting coaches are hired to train singers in acting skills. Popular music singers may need to learn acting skills for their live concert shows, which sometimes include staged sequences, and for performing in music videos. For example, Goth-rocker Amy Lee was provided with an acting coach by her record label. In Classical music, singers performing staged operas may get help from an acting coach to prepare them for their roles. Sometimes CEOs and other leaders hire acting coaches to help them improve their performance of speeches and other general communications activities. While most acting coaches mentor actors, some also coach directors on how to improve their direction of actors. Some acting coaches offer introductions to the acting industry, to help new actors learn about auditions, the casting process, the role of agents, key acting terminology (e.g., \"callback\" auditions), and about important industry organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "9819436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9819436", "title": "Actionbioscience", "text": "Actionbioscience\n\nAction Bioscience is a non-commercial, educational web site sponsored by the American Institute of Biological Sciences (AIBS) . It was created to promote bioscience literacy and bring attention to seven bioscience issues of critical current importance: 1) Biodiversity, 2) Environment, 3) Genomics, 4) Biotechnology, 5) Evolution, 6) New Frontiers, and 7) Science Education\n\nThe organization seeks to:\n\n\nTo meet these goals, the web site provides articles by scientists, science educators, and science students on issues related to seven bioscience challenges: environment, biodiversity, genomics, biotechnology, evolution, new frontiers in science, and bioscience education. In addition, the web site provides educators with original lessons and resources to enhance bioscience teaching. Up-to-date external links are provided at the bottom of each article to help the reader \"learn more\" about or \"get involved\" in the issue. Selected articles are translated into Spanish.\n\nIt won an award as one of the best sci-tech web sites by Scientific American.\n"}
{"id": "52039038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52039038", "title": "AppyStore", "text": "AppyStore\n\nAppyStore is a comprehensive learning videos and games app for kids up to the age of 8 years. The content includes rhymes, phonics, reading, stories, science, numbers, math, logic & more. The platform developed by Mauj Mobile, a mobile value-added services (VAS) provider curates content to help in child development by leveraging technology. Mauj is funded by Sequoia Capital, Westbridge Capital and Intel Capital.\n\nAppyStore was launched in 2014 as a platform providing content for kids between the ages of 1.5 to 6 years. AppyStore subsequently extended its services for kids up to 8 years of age. The company operates on a subscription-based model and claims to have 5,000 learning games and videos segregated in 18 learning areas developed to help children gain optimal skills and qualities.\n\nAccording to an article published in Business Standard, the application is claimed to be one of the top 5 apps that help to enhance the logical and imaginative capabilities of children.\n\nAppyStore was awarded the Best app for kids by Google Play in December 2017. \n\nThe company provides content via a website and an Android app. The website and android app provide learning games, rhymes, phonics, reading, stories, science, numbers, math, logic videos comprising puzzles, worksheets, videos and fun activities and the premium subscription also includes physical worksheets which are home delivered. This content is educational and has been handpicked by teachers and experts with an understanding of the major areas of child development milestones for children up to 8 years of age.\n\nThe mobile application also allows parents to track the progress of their child on the basis of the number of videos viewed.\n\n"}
{"id": "16862335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16862335", "title": "Association of Law Students' Library of the Jagiellonian University", "text": "Association of Law Students' Library of the Jagiellonian University\n\nAssociation of Law Students’ Library of the Jagiellonian University (pol. \"Towarzystwo Biblioteki Słuchaczów Prawa Uniwersytetu Jagiellońskiego\" – \"TBSP UJ\") is the oldest and one of the biggest student scientific associations in Poland. \n\nTBSP was established on 23 June 1851, the aim of the association was to organize and equip an independent law library for Polish law students at Jagiellonian University, which was Germanised at that time as Galician autonomy has not been introduced yet.\n\nAssociation’s activities could be performed thanks to multiple donations made by professors and students. The book collection was growing systematically as well as TBSP’s activities – as early as in 1890s scientific and oratorical competitions, congresses and lectures were orgranised. The association was actively participating in patriotic initiatives in Galicia.\n\nDuring the years 1914-1915, when Jagiellonian University was closed, TBSP moved to Vienna to continue its activities there and came back to Kraków after re-opening of the university. During the Second World War, the association joined underground education and made its library (the part which has not been requisitioned yet) fully available to students. \nIn 1950, when Poland found itself in the Soviet zone of influence, the association was formally liquidated, its headquarters taken over by university and its book collection – by the Jagiellonian Library; scripts duplicating centre was suppressed. However TBSP’s traditions were continued by informal circles of penal law students and historians of law.\nIn 1957 TBSP was officially reactivated, efforts have been made to recover the book collection. Since that time, the association has not been an independent entity but a unit of Jagiellonian University.\n\nAt present, TBSP unites about 1500 students and runs various educational and cultural activities. In the framework of 23 sections, additional classes are organised for younger students to help them prepare for participation in faculty competitions and final examinations. More advanced students participate in discussions and specialist workshops organised in cooperation with partner institutions and law firms. The association runs intensive publishing activities, just to mention regular Scientific Books of the TBSP UJ or repetitory courses for students. Traditionally, respective sections organise study trips to the Constitutional Tribunal, the Supreme Court etc., to help students to get to know most important Polish institutions. Each year various scientific congresses are organized, many of them of international dimension, while permanent evening meetings with the most prominent professors and law practitioners allow students to get some less formal contact with legal profession.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4410235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4410235", "title": "Asım Orhan Barut", "text": "Asım Orhan Barut\n\nAsım Orhan Barut (June 6, 1926 – December 5, 1994) was a Turkish-American theoretical physicist.\n\nHe received his undergraduate diploma and his Ph.D. degree both from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich in 1949 and 1952, respectively. He pursued his postdoctoral studies at the University of Chicago during 1953-54.\n\n\"Barut\" was an assistant professor at Reed College during 1954-55 and then joined the faculty at Syracuse University in 1956. He became a professor of physics at the University of Colorado at Boulder in 1962 and served for 32 years.\n\nHis research interests centered on group theoretic methods in physics. His books include \"Theory of the Scattering Matrix\", \"Electrodynamics and Classical Theory of Fields and Particles\" and \"Representations of Noncompact Groups and Applications\". \"Asım Orhan Barut\" was elected a fellow of the American Physical Society in 1966.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1758063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1758063", "title": "Austrian Service Abroad", "text": "Austrian Service Abroad\n\nAustrian Service Abroad is a non-profit initiative and was founded in 1998 by Andreas Maislinger and Andreas Hörtnagl. Since 2001 Michael Prochazka is part of the managing committee.\n\nThe association for Services Abroad, founded in 1998 by Andreas Hörtnagl and Andreas Maislinger was renamed in 2006 as Austrian Service Abroad. Since 2001 Michael Prochazka is also in the board of directors of the non-governmental organization. Once a month a meeting takes place in each federal state.\n\nThe organization provides positions for an alternative Austrian national service all over the world and is based in Innsbruck. The regular nine month alternative national service (Zivildienst) is substituted by a 12-month service at one of its partner organisations abroad. There are great variations in the requirements. Austrian Service Abroad is an institution which provides young male Austrians with a government funded alternative to the compulsory military service. Its main focuses are social work and Holocaust Memorial Service.\n\nAustrian Service Abroad offers three different types of Zivildienst-substitutes: \n\nThis program was founded in 1992 and has been a part of the association Austrian Service Abroad since 1998. It deals with the victims of Nazism. Austrian Holocaust Memorial servants work for Holocaust memorials, like museums and research facilities (for example at the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles, the Jewish Museum Berlin, the European Roma Rights Centre in Budapest or Yad Vashem in Jerusalem)\n\nFor several years now, Austrian Holocaust Memorial servants also have been sent to assignments in former refuge countries of the victim groups persecuted by the Nazis, for example the Casa Stefan Zweig in Petrópolis (Brazil), the Centre for Jewish Studies in Shanghai, as well as the Jewish Museum of Australia in Melbourne. Since 1992 hundreds of young Austrian Holocaust Memorial servants in 22 countries have reappraised the history of the Holocaust worldwide and made an important contribution to the Austrian processing of history.\n\n\nIt is performed within the scope of projects that serve the economic and social development of the respective country. Social servants are active in the following areas: projects for street-children, educational projects and children's villages, care for the old and handicapped, medical care as well as care and help for homosexuals.\n\nFurther places of assignment are environmental projects and developing projects (for example: improvement of drinking water supplies) in the countries of the Third World. Andreas Daniel Matt, the first foreign servant of the year who has provided his social service in 2004 in a SOS children's village in Lahore (Pakistan) has, with the organization proLoka, founded even another place of assignment.\n\nSince October, 1998 hundreds of Austrian Social servants were predominantly assigned to countries in Central and South America, Africa and Asia. But also organizations like royal London Society for the Blind in England and the orphanage faith in Saint Petersburg (Russia) are part of this worldwide network.\n\n\nPeace servants are occupied within organizations that serve the achievement or protection of peace in connection with armed conflicts. They work, e.g., in non-state organizations in Israel where they organize workshops or common initiatives of the conflicting parties.\n\nIn Nanjing in China a peace service application place exists since 2008 in the John Rabe house which reappraises the massacre of Nanjing in 1937. This edged out event still strains the Sino-Japanese relations and was decisive in 2005 for wide protests in Beijing and other towns. The Japanese school book quarrel led in China to movements against falsification of history in Japanese school books. That's why the Austrian Peace Service donated together with the Thomas Rabe Community Center in 2009 for the first time the John Rabe Award.\n\nThe International Council is the advisory arm for the executive committee of the Austrian Service Abroad regarding all matters of the respective country.\n\nErnst Florian Winter, Chairman\n\nThe US is currently the country with the largest number of places offered for Holocaust Memorial Service. Well known Holocaust Museums and Memorial Institutions like the Simon Wiesenthal Center and the Survivors of the Shoah Visual History Foundation in Los Angeles received several Holocaust Memorial Servants since the 1990s.\n\nAt present, Austrian Service Abroad sends young Austrians to the following partner institutions:\n\n2004 Stefan Stoev, United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Washington DC, United States\n\n2005 Dr. Andreas Daniel Matt, SOS Children's Villages Lahore, Pakistan\n\n2006 Martin Wallner, Center of Jewish Studies Shanghai, China\n\n2007 Daniel James Schuster, Yad Vashem Jerusalem, Israel\n\n2008 René J. Laglstorfer, Centre de la mémoire d'Oradour, France & Center of Jewish Studies Shanghai, China\n\n2009 Joerg Reitmaier, Auschwitz Jewish Center, Poland & Virginia Holocaust Museum, United States\n\n2010 Peter Loibner, GU SRZ Vera, Russia\n\n2011 Francesco Konigsberger, Federation of Jewish Communities, Czech Republic,\nCornelius Schwärzler, Russian Research and Educational Holocaust Center, Russia & Fondazione Museo della Shoa, Italy & Dokumentation Obersalzberg, Germany,\nDavid Witzeneder, Tropical Field Station La Gamba & Finca Salvador, Costa Rica\n\nIn 2006 Andreas Maislinger, chairman of the Austrian Service Abroad, initiated the Austrian Holocaust Memorial Award (AHMA). Winners:\n\n2006: Prof. Pan Guang., Shanghai, PR China.\n\n2007: Alberto Dines, Sao Paulo, Brazil\n\n2008: Robert Hébras, Oradour-sur-Glane, France\n\n2009: Jay M. Ipson, Richmond, Virginia, United States\n\n2010: Eva Marks, Melbourne, Australia\n\n2011: Auschwitz Jewish Center, Oswiecim, Poland\n\n2012: Ladislaus Löb, United Kingdom\n\n2013: Hugo Höllenreiner, Munich, Germany\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8696322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8696322", "title": "Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences", "text": "Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences\n\nAzerbaijan National Academy of Sciences (ANAS) (), located in Baku, is the main state research organization and the primary body that conducts research and coordinates activities in the fields of science and social sciences in Azerbaijan. It was established on 23 January 1945. \n\nThe President of ANAS is Acad. Akif Alizadeh and the Academician-Secretary of ANAS is Acad. Rasim Alguliyev.\n\nOne section of the ANAS is Republican Seismic Survey Center of Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences. \n\nThe Academy was based on the Azerbaijan Society for Scientific Research and Studies, which was first affiliated with Baku State University and later with the USSR Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 1923 the Azerbaijan Society for Researches and Studies that included history, ethnography, economics and natural sciences, was established as the leading scientific institution of Azerbaijan by initiative of Nariman Narimanov. In 1929 the Society was reorganized into Azerbaijan State Scientific Research Institute (ASSRI). ASSRI were coordinating scientific research works, and training scientific cadres for specialized high and secondary schools. In 1932, the Azerbaijani Branch of the Transcaucasian Affiliate of the USSR Academy of Sciences, consisting of 11 divisions and several committees, was organized on the basis of ASSRI. The head of the Branch was A. Ruhulla. Famous Russian scientists such as Ivan Gubkin, Alexander Grossheim, I. Meshshaninov, Iosif Yesman, and Azerbaijani scholars such as Bakir Chobanzadeh, Musa Afandiyev, Veli Khuluflu, A. Mammadov, Salman Mumtaz, A. Taghizadeh, etc. conducted scientific researches here.\n\nIn 1935, Azerbaijani Branch of the Transcaucasian Affiliate of the USSR Academy of Sciences was reorganized into the Azerbaijani Affiliate of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR. Chemical, Botany, Zoology, History, Ethnography and Archeology, Language and Literature research institutions, as well as the Divisions of Energy, Physics, Geology, and Soil Science were established on the base of the existing departments of the Branch. \n\nIn 1945, the USSR Council of People's Commissars ordered the society to be reorganized into the Academy of Sciences of the Azerbaijan SSR. During its first year, the Academy numbered 15 members; Uzeyir Hajibeyov and Samad Vurgun among them.\n\nIn accord with presidential decree (May 15, 2001), the Azerbaijan Academy of Sciences was granted the status of \"National Academy of Sciences\" (ANAS), after 2 years ANAS was given the status of supreme state body carrying out the scientific and scientific-technical policy of Azerbaijan. Its Charter was granted the state document. \n\nFollowing the presidential decrees dated January 12, 2004 and 5 May 2004, the Encyclopedia of Azerbaijan was a part of ANAS and the Scientific Center of the National Encyclopedia of Azerbaijan was established.\n\nThe Presidium is currently located in the historical Ismailiyya building on Istiglaliyyat Street in the center of Baku.\n\nThe functions of Azerbaijan National Academy of Science include organization of scientific activity; carrying out scientific researches covering various scientific fields; coordinating and directing scientific researches of all scientific organizations and universities across the country; implementing state policy on scientific. ANAS represents Azerbaijan in different countries and international scientific events, takes measures in order to improve the scientific infrastructure and modernize the material and technical basis of science. Its functions also include strengthening the relations between science and industries, to create mechanisms for the implementation of applied scientific research in line with the needs of the market, and innovative environment for innovative entrepreneurship, developing new types of activities, making proposals for the transfer and acquisition of advanced technologies, and suggestions on the organization of techno-parks, innovation zones, incubation services, technology transfer centers, and shaping the innovation system in Azerbaijan.\n\nAzerbaijan National Academy of Sciences is responsible for ensuring scientific reforms; organizing scientific researches in various fields of science; providing the organization, coordination, development of researches. The Academy should determine the strategy and priorities of scientific and technical development, participate in preparation of state programs, make decisions, establish scientific-production-experimental plants, and various economic enterprises and organize interaction between science and production.\n\nOrganizing and implementing scientific researches that aimed at the protection of culture, traditions and customs, strengthening ties between science and education, representing Azerbaijan in international events related to scientific issues, participating in the organization and implementation of international scientific projects, promoting the creation of high-tech manufacturing sites and businesses based on science achievements; conducting regular monitoring, providing development of science in the regions of Azerbaijan are also include responsibilities of ANAS. The Academy applies a single center-management model of research carried out in scientific research institutions, takes measures on effectiveness assessment.\n\nThe Academy has rights such as follows: \n\n\nANAS includes several organizations such as Scientific Production Association \"Cybernetics\", Central Scientific Library, Scientific Center operates under the Presidium of ANAS. Approximately 10,000 employees (4939 scientific workers, 664 doctors of sciences, 2026 philosophy doctors) work in ANAS.\n\nThe structure of the Academy consists of the Presidium of the Academy staff and scientific institutions, as well as regional scientific departments and centers, scientific and social services. The structure and staff of the Academy are approved by the Ministers` Cabinet of Azerbaijan. The Academy performs its duties directly and through its departments.\nThe Presidium of the Academy is the collegial executive body of the Academy. The Academy's activity is led by the president of the Academy. The President of the Academy is elected for a term of five years at the General Meeting of the Academy and is approved by the President of Azerbaijan.\n\nAzerbaijan National Academy of Sciences is divided into 6 departments (altogether they affiliate about 40 research and cultural institutions throughout the country), namely:\n\nThe Academy has regional branches in Ganja, Shaki and Lankaran.\n\nThe full members of the Academy are selected from among the Corresponding Members of the Academy, who are the citizens of Azerbaijan, and conduct scientific researches, and enrich scientific knowledge.\n\nJust citizens of the Republic of Azerbaijan can be elected as correspondent member of the Academy. These candidates should have weighty services in development of science abroad, as well as in Azerbaijan.\n\nForeign members of the Academy are selected among the scholars who make valuable contributions to the world and Azerbaijani science of foreign countries.Honorary members of the Academy are selected from among the citizens of Azerbaijan, foreigners and stateless persons, recognized worldwide as state, public, scientific and cultural figures. Honorary members of the Academy may also be elected at the Presidium along with the General Meeting of the Academy. The full and correspondent members of the Academy are selected for lifetime. \n\nThe number of full and correspondent members of the Academy is determined by the president of Azerbaijan, taking into consideration the decision of the General Meeting of the Academy.\nMembers of the Academy should assist in the application of scientific achievements, prepare scientific staff, carry out scientific-organizational assignments of the Presidium, and participate in the General Meetings of the Academy and its scientific unit. \n\nMembers of the Academy have rights to require the Academy's Presidium to create conditions for them to carry out their scientific researches; to present scientific and scientific-organizational issues for the discussion of the Presidium of the Academy and the bureau of the scientific unit which they are members, to discuss such matters in the General Assembly of the Academy and the Scientific Unit through the Presidium and the Office of Scientific Divisions. When a member of the Academy fails to perform his duties in accordance with the Charter of ANAS, the Academy's Board of Directors discusses it individually and submits it to the General Meeting of the Academy. \n\nThe foreign member of the Academy presents to the Presidium of the Academy the proposals on the development of scientific researches and the expansion of international scientific cooperation in the scientific department. The elections of the full, correspondent, foreign and honorary members of the Academy are held no less than once every three years. \n\nThe Academy has a two-tier membership. Currently there are 57 active members and 104 corresponding members. Membership is granted through a vote. The Academy also grants honorary memberships.\n\nThe main executive figure in the academy is the President of Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences who is elected by members of the Academy.\n\nAzerbaijan National Academy of Sciences (ANAS) signed memorandums, memorandums of understanding, agreements, agreements of understanding on scientific cooperation, cooperation in the field of science and technology together with the relevant scientific academies in the world such as the Polish Academy of Sciences, Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Council (TSTRC), the Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Tajikistan, the Moldova Academy of Sciences, Latvian Academy of Sciences, Spanish Academy of Economics and Finance, Turkish Academy (Kazakh Academy), Serbian Academy of Science and Art, the Israeli Academy of Humanitarian and Medical Sciences, Turkish Center for Caspian Studies. \n\nThe Academy was criticized by several members of the National Assembly, in July 2012 for publishing a children's tale called \"The Unwanted Son-In-Law,\" which contained vulgar language and graphic scenes of incest. The story was published in 2007 in the sixth volume of the ambiguously titled \"Tales\" anthology. Kamila Aliyeva, a member of the Science and Education Committee was quoted as saying \"I wonder if they were aware of the contents of the book,\" she asked. \"If they were, it is shameful. And if they were not, it is also shameful.\" \n\nThe academy is a member of the Caucasus University Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "6600620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6600620", "title": "Black Gold (video game)", "text": "Black Gold (video game)\n\nBlack Gold (also known as \"Oil Imperium\") is a video game of the strategy genre released in 1989 by reLINE Software.\n\nThe goal of the game is to promote and sell oil and defeat competitors using a number of fair and unfair strategies. A game move always takes a month, and each action in the game costs one or more days.\n\nThe game is designed for four players, either human (using a hot seat method) or computer-controlled. Players take on the management of one of four corporations: \"Interoil\", \"All American\", \"Transoil\" or \"Explora Inc.\"\n\nThere are four different game objectives to choose from: to play a three-year game, to survive the longest of all the game companies, to receive an 80% market share or to reach 60 million dollars. There are some game mechanic variations between the missions. For example, when playing to the first 60 million dollars, drilling a borehole takes longer than in the other missions.\n\nThere are eight oil-producing regions to choose from where players must acquire licenses, tankers and oil fields: Alaska, North America, Central America, South America, Europe, USSR, the Gulf region and Indochina.\n\nThe player can request an expert opinion of an oil field's probable yield before purchase. Once a field has been bought, the player may drill manually or pay game money for automatic drilling. Enemies in the game can disrupt play using sabotage. This can be done by igniting the oil fields, destroying tankers, manipulating balance sheets, etc. To protect against such moves, a player can hire a security company.\n\nIn the course of the game there are three action sequences. Oil sales can lead to delays, and the player must manually lay pipeline. Manual drilling requires the player to correct the deviation of the drill head. Finally, burning oil wells must be deleted using dynamite. The latter can be carried out by a specialist called \"Ted Redhair\" (inspired by the famous Red Adair).\n"}
{"id": "59019489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59019489", "title": "Candler College and Colegio Buenavista", "text": "Candler College and Colegio Buenavista\n\nCandler College and Colegio Buenavista were educational institutions founded in Havana, Cuba by the United States Southern Methodist Episcopal Church. They were founded on two different dates, Candler College in 1899 and Colegio Buenavista in 1920. They both ceased to exist in 1961 when they were nationalized by the revolutionary government of Fidel Castro. These schools intended to provide a bilingual education in Spanish and English, based on the Christian faith. They offered from the pre-school level until finishing high school to Cuban children and youth, as part of the mission of the church on the island.\n\nAlthough they were administered by different dependencies of the Methodist Church of Florida (United States), these two schools developed all their activities in coordination. Candler College offered elementary education only to boys while Colegio Buenavista provided primary education for girls. Young girls enrolled in Buenavista attended secondary education programs at Candler College; they only received religion and physical education classes at the Buenavista facilities. Some of Candler's boys did the seventh and eighth grades in English at Colegio Buenavista to be able to follow the United States High School curriculum. The younger boys also went to Kindergarten along with the girls. Candler College had a boarding school for boys only. Similarly, Buenavista provided the boarding for young girls and ladies. The two schools had separate lunch services for students who did not live a short distance away from them.\n\nIn order to give its graduates and other students, the opportunity to continue university studies, at Candler College Candler University was organized in 1956, opening the Faculties of Pedagogy, Languages, Philosophy, and Letters, Pharmacy and Commercial Sciences to began in 1957.\n\nThese institutions grew in number of students and in prestige over the years until their educational work was interrupted in 1961 when the Castro regime nationalized all the private educational establishments (religious and lay). During the years in which Candler College and Colegio Buenavista existed, both schools provided a successful service to Cuban youth preparing their students for civic life by providing, in addition to official instruction, an integral formation based on Christian, moral and patriotic values. \n\nThe first Methodist school in Cuba was founded in 1899 by the American missionary Thad E. Leland on Calle Virtudes de La Habana. This was founded when the Bishop of the Methodist Church of Florida, the Rev. Warren Akin Candler, proposed to give a new impetus to the missionary work begun in Cuba in 1883, through educational projects. In 1903 this school was named Candler College in honor of Bishop Candler.\n\nThe Reverend H. B. Bardwell, a missionary in Cuba since 1903, succeeded the reverends E.E Clements and B.F. Gilbert as director of Candler College in 1909. Aware of the need to expand, the Mission Board of the Florida Conference acquired a vast tract of land in La Ceiba, Marianao, where the first building for the new headquarters was built in 1912 of the school, inaugurated in January 1913. For some time, the school in Havana and the new headquarters functioned under the same name until they were organized as independent colleges. The headquarters of Havana was called Central Methodist College and that of Marianao retained the name Candler College. In addition to offering elementary and secondary education, between 1924 and 1946 at Candler College, a theological seminary was held, the School of Pastors, which was under the direction of the Reverend B. F. Gilbert followed by the Reverend E.E, Clements.\n\nThe Reverend Bardwell directed Candler College for forty years, during which the spirit of the college was consolidated. He was replaced in 1949 by the Reverend Carlos Pérez Ramos, who had been assistant director since 1946. Under his direction, the school continued to grow and other buildings and facilities were built to meet new requirements.\n\nColegio Buenavista was founded in 1920 by the Women's Missionary Board of the Methodist Church to provide a Christian education for girls and young women and to respond to the request of the parents of Candler College students who demanded an education for their daughters. quality similar to that of his brothers. This women's school began to operate in a residence surrounded by gardens that acquired the church across the street Miramar, along the side of the Candler. In addition to offering primary education for girls, between 1926 and 1938 in Buenavista worked a Normal School that prepared hundreds of teachers, directed by Dr. Luis Alonso.\n\nUntil 1960, the directors of Colegio Buenavista were American missionaries who had carried out evangelization and social work for the Methodist Church in different parts of the island. Under his direction the school grew at the same pace as Candler College. Miss Belle Markey, the first director, was followed by Miss Junia Jones and then by Miss Ione Clay, who held the position for more than 25 years, until her retirement in 1956, and was replaced by Miss Juanita Kelly, who was succeeded by Miss Lorraine Buck. Four months before the nationalization of the school, the Reverend Humberto Carrazana, pastor of the Methodist Church of Marianao, was named director of Colegio Buenavista.\n\nFor several decades, the schools were considered among the best in Cuba and \"many graduates were accepted in the best universities in the United States without taking admission exams.\" Some banks and other commercial companies often offered vacant positions to students of the school that were close to finishing their studies of Accountant and Secretariat.\n\nCandler College was located in the southeastern corner of the intersection of Miramar (Calle 54) and Gutiérrez (Ave. 43) in La Ceiba, Marianao. Candler's main entrance was down Gutiérrez Street (Ave.43) and gave access to the gardens in the front part of the main building, where the offices were on the ground floor and the bedrooms for the pupils in the second and third floors. Through this entrance, taking to the left, were the Martian Corner and the two-story building where the High School classes were held. At the back of this building, which opened onto Calle Lanuza (Calle 52), an entrance was opened for the students of Candler University. There were three other entrances on Calle Miramar (Ave. 54): one that was used to enter the Chapel, the next allowed the entrance of cars to the esplanade and parking place; this entrance had on the right the two-story building of the School of Commerce, with its well-equipped classrooms and spacious corridors, and to the left was the Library building, which also had two floors. Surrounding the esplanade were the back of the main building with its long corridors, the front of the High School building, the dining room and kitchen with the apartment for the director on the second floor and the three-story building that occupied the School of Baccalaureate, with its laboratories and the Museum of Natural Sciences, in addition to classrooms. Separated by a fence, was the field for sports, the squash court and beyond the ground and the ballpark. The third entrance was the building of the Elementary School, in front of Font Street (Ave. 45). On the opposite side of the street, there was another sports field on the corner of 54th Street and 45th Ave. The Gymnasium, with its modern wooden plank for playing basketball and indoor volleyball and a stage at the back, was It was located in the southwest corner of 56th Street and 45th Ave.\n\nColegio Buenavista was located in front of the entrances on the side of Candler, on the southwestern corner of 54th Street and 43rd Avenue.\nThe main Buenavista building had three entrances on Calle Miramar (Calle 54): the first was a gate to enter the main building, the beautiful mansion that was adapted to the initial needs of the school. On the ground floor were: the materials room, the kitchen, the dining room, and two classrooms. On the facade there were two converging stairs on a large terrace that gave access to the offices, the library, and the hall, from where a corridor led to the infirmary, the bedrooms and bathrooms for the pupils and the director, on the second floor. On the third floor, there were more bedrooms for the older pupils and the missionaries. To the left of this building, there was an entrance for cars, gardens, a garage, and a small room. A hallway to the left led to the classrooms, lined along 54th Street and 45th Ave, which limited the large courtyard with its gardens. This included recreational areas, the platform for cultural activities, the Martian Corner and, on the other side, the tennis and volleyball court. A third entrance to the gardens of Calle Miramar led to a vestibule that separated a small religious meditation room and a classroom and the long corridor that gave access to the other classrooms. There was also an entrance through the back of the patio, on Calle Primelles (Calle 56). Crossing this street, a small door allowed to enter the sports ground for the students of Buenavista. The Auditorium of both schools was built next to this land, located in the south-western corner of 56th Street and 43rd Ave. Diagonal to this, in the northeast corner, with the entrance by Ave. 43, was the building of two stories with a smaller playground for students from pre-school to third grade.\n\nBoth schools in total occupied a vast lot whose area of more than 32,000 square meters was bounded by 45th Ave to the south, 52nd Street to the east, 58th Street to the west and 43rd Ave to the north. This large area was crossed by three streets: Calle 54, Ave. 45 and Calle 56, which separated the buildings of the schools and the sports grounds, the gymnasium, and the auditorium.\n\nCandler College and Buenavista College were grounded in the creed and discipline of the Methodist church. They were opened to prepare students for their future life outside of school on the basis of Christian faith and practice as well as moral, civic and patriotic values. Its purposes were to provide a comprehensive education that would contribute to the personal development of students as individuals and members of society and raise the educational level of the newly founded republic.\n\nAccording to the thought of John Wesley, a good education was considered \"one of the best ways to transform individuals, communities and societies as a whole\" for their betterment and the glory of God. Education was not only the acquisition of academic knowledge but also wisdom and humility, which was founded on the teachings of Christ, in order to grow intellectually, personally and spiritually. The search for truth was encouraged through reason, research and debate, based on freedom of thought and expression. High academic standards were promoted as well as the development of talents through varied activities. As a result, challenges were posed to students, they were inspired and supported to achieve their best through self-discipline and a strong work ethic.\n\nCandler and Buenavista maintained a distinctive approach to education that incorporated Christian ethical values. The Methodist Social Creed emphasizes interest in social welfare and justice as well as the need to combat prejudice and intolerance in whatever form they take by strengthening mutual respect and understanding. So tolerant attitudes and behaviors were reinforced, respectful and non-discriminatory.\n\nIt was hoped that students would learn to differentiate good and evil based on Christian and moral values. Family values based on love and mutual understanding and support were an important part of the formation of students.\n\nHigh ideals of patriotism were present in the education of the students: love their homeland and be loyal to it, respect and honor the national emblems and recognize the merits of the main forgers of the nation, know its history, culture and traditions as well as the achievements of the newly created republic and interested in the needs and problems of its people and their efforts to solve them.\n\nThe civic values of freedom and democracy and the norms of coexistence related to rights and duties had a central place in the task of preparing future citizens as well as inculcating good manners and the appropriate habits required to live in society.\n\nThe strong ties with the Florida Methodist Church Conference, which partially supported both colleges, were evident in the influence of American culture and traditions in schools. The flag of the United States was present in all the parties and ceremonies along with the Cuban flag and the national anthems of the two countries were sung.\n\nThe principle adopted by Candler College as a guide was Consilio et Prudentia (Wisdom and Prudence). The motto of Colegio Buenavista, which appears on his seal, was Esse quam Videri (Ser instead of appearing). The pennants of Candler College bore the distinctive colors of the school, red and black. Those of Buenavista the orange and the black. The hymns of the schools were the following:\n\nLogo Candler College\n\n1 Hail Candler! Emblem for always of nobility and virtue Holy Mother of the soul you teach us the truth and rectitude. As a beacon that the sad sailor in the night will guide you are light that the path of the student with knowledge will illuminate.\n\nChorus: Candler, Candler pay tribute always loyal children the name of the Alma Mater exalted.\n\n2 With affection your children happy today want everyone to sing hymn of your glorious traditions, your great name to celebrate. Your ideals, like treasured jewels, will adorn the homeland. Your grateful precepts children in the soul will keep.\n\nChorus\n\nBuenavista School\n\n1 To the school beloved by all we sing a hymn in praise promising to always be faithful to its emblem that is honor and love. Companions sing the hymn of the beloved school in honor Buenavista you will be our beacon for your name we will know how to succeed.\n\nChorus: Compañeras let's sing the hymn of the beloved school in praise Buenavista! let's say happy! Buenavista! with deep emotion.\n\n2 Buenavista your glorious name expression of your life gives us our breasts will be your bulwark, by your name we will succeed. Buenavista that always loving teaching and affection you give us and the august knowledge you give us to enter the better life. Chorus\n\n3 Compañeras the work we follow and let all of us guide our duty by always promising to be faithful, respecting the voice of their law. Companions we sing the hymn of the beloved school in praise and its echoes resound gloriously like a psalm that reaches God. Chorus\n\nCandler College consisted of four schools, each coordinated by a sub-director:\n\n\nColegio Buenavista offered preschool (Kindergarten and Pre-primary) and primary education in Spanish and English from first to eighth grades. Her students continued secondary education at Candler College.\n\nThe curriculum corresponded to the graduate school model adopted in Cuba at the beginning of the twentieth century, which implies the progressive nature of the teaching-learning process so that the contents of the subjects were sequenced progressively from pre-school to secondary education.\n\nCandler College and Buenavista followed the official programs for the Primary School and the Bachillerato proposed by the Cuban Ministry of Education, which determined in a precise way the contents for the subjects of each grade in the Study Plans, as well as the time required for each one. The teachers selected the textbooks and the materials among those prepared by authors Cubans. Primary Education in Spanish and the Baccalaureate had official recognition, as there were supervisors from the Ministry of Education who periodically visited the primary school classes. The Baccalaureate School was incorporated the Secondary Education Institute of Marianao, so that the students had to present exams of each subject before professors of this institute twice a year to obtain the accreditation of their results, and at the end, the diploma official that would allow them to enter the university. In the School of Commerce the professors prepared the study plans. The textbooks and materials were selected by them among those offered by the publishing houses and were available in the bookstores. The curricula for the High School followed the curriculum of the United States and the texts were brought from there. The schedules, the spaces and the didactic resources were conceived and managed in coordination by the sub-directors and teachers. They were autonomous to conduct the teaching-learning process. Each teacher was free to choose the teaching methods and teaching materials he or she considered most convenient for each subject and was responsible for the evaluation of the students, including the observation of their difficulties and needs in order to improve their performance. Grades or grades were reported monthly to the parents of the students.\n\nReligious education was important in both schools. The Bible classes were part of the curriculum in all grades. The students not only read the history and teachings of Jesus and the apostles in the New Testament, they also learned about the history of the Hebrew people, their leaders, prophets, and other characters; they also learned the Ten Commandments and read the Psalms and Proverbs in the Old Testament. Worshiping God and praying were part of the student's formation. Twice a week the students of Buenavista and the boys of Candler in the Chapel met separately, where the word of God was preached and topics related to spiritual, moral, civic and patriotic values were discussed.\n\nStudents at both schools had opportunities to supplement their academic instruction through a number of sports and various extracurricular activities:\n\nAthletics and sports were always practiced in Candler. In the beginning, the favorite sports were tennis and baseball along with the training field and track. Later, students also practiced softball, basketball, volleyball, and squash instead of tennis. Some students could participate in teams that were specially trained to compete in the intercollegiate championships. They won many trophies in baseball and basketball.\n\nThe girls also played sports at Buenavista: softball, kickball, volleyball and basketball. Teams were trained with the best players to also participate in intercollegiate competitions.\n\nIn Buenavista there was a Music Department that, in addition to the regular music classes included in the curricula, offered piano and solfeggio and music theory lessons. The students could take these classes in their free time or at the end of the school day each day. The annual Recital was a tradition of many years, in which the students who took piano lessons played a piece of classical music. In this one also participated the Rhythmic Band.\n\nIn the decades of 1940 and 1950 there was also a school band that participated in stops or patriotic celebrations and played the National Anthem during the salute to the flag.\n\nIn addition, choirs were specially prepared to participate in festivals and other celebrations.\n\nSince 1958 a choir was organized with students from both schools.\n\nAt different times, some groups of students interested in literature, musical appreciation, theater, oratory, or the publication of a newspaper were organized, guided by a teacher or counselor.\n\nThe excursions were traditional opportunities to visit places near the school or historical or recreational places in different parts of the country.\n\nAt Candler College, there was also a troop of Boy Scouts.\n\nIn addition, festivals, bazaars, theatrical performances, Christmas celebrations and others that were part of the annual planning of school activities were organized.\n\nCandler College and Colegio Buenavista were open to all children and young people without further requirements, who, apart from paying the monthly fee, committed to respecting their standards. Some students were scholarship two for the church and some parents got a reduction in the tuition for their children's education.\n\nThe two schools did not admit exclusively Methodist or Protestant students. The majority of the students were Catholic and there were also some students Jews. Due to the good level in the teaching of the English language, Candler and Buenavista were chosen by many parents of students foreigners who lived in Cuba.\n\nIn the sixty-two years of existence of Candler College and forty-one of Buenavista, many thousands of students left the schools prepared to continue their studies or enter the world of work and become good citizens. They were equipped with solid foundations of religious faith and moral values to cope with life after school.\n\nThe Candler Fraternity was the association of graduates and alumni of Candler College. The former students of Buenavista belonged to the Association of Former Students of Colegio Buenavista.\n\nMany alumni and teachers of Candler and Buenavista left their country in the early 1960s when the revolution that took power in 1959 turned to communism. Others emigrated later. The majority went to live in the United States, concentrating on the largest number in Florida. Some of those who have been in contact have met on different occasions to remember the old times and reaffirm the spirit of the schools that they all share.\n\nThe former students of Candler and Buenavista who remained in Cuba have formed the Candler-Buenavista Fraternity and meet annually since 1999.\n"}
{"id": "8942801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8942801", "title": "Carl von Voit", "text": "Carl von Voit\n\nCarl von Voit (31 October 1831 – 31 January 1908) was a German physiologist and dietitian.\nVoit was born in Amberg. From 1848 to 1854 he studied at the universities of Munich and Würzburg. At Munich, his teachers were Justus von Liebig and Max Joseph Pettenkofer, and at Würzburg, he was a pupil of Albert von Kölliker. In 1855 he furthered his education at the University of Göttingen under chemist Friedrich Wohler, and in 1856/57 served as an assistant to Theodor von Bischoff in Munich. In 1857 he obtained his habilitation, and from 1863 was a full professor of physiology as well as curator of the physiological collection at the University of Munich.\n\nCarl von Voit is considered by many to be the \"father\" of modern dietetics. As a chemist and physiologist, he found that the amount of nitrogen in excreted urea is a measure for the protein turnover. Using a respiration chamber, he could characterize the significance of individual nutrients, known as \"Voitsche Kostmaß\".\n\nHe was also a successful teacher, attracting international students to the University of Munich and thus significantly influencing the US nutritionist, among others. One of his better known German pupils was Max Rubner.\n\nCarl von Voit died in Munich.\n\nThe German Nutrition Society awards the Carl-von-Voit-medal since 1961.\n\n"}
{"id": "8498823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8498823", "title": "Casino Mogul", "text": "Casino Mogul\n\nCasino Mogul is a business simulation game for Windows.\n"}
{"id": "350451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=350451", "title": "Commercium song", "text": "Commercium song\n\nCommercium songs are traditional academic songs that are sung during academic feasts: commerciums and tablerounds.\n\nSome very old commercium songs are in Latin, like \"Meum est propositum\" or \"Gaudeamus igitur\". \n\nIn some countries, hundreds of commercium songs are compiled in commercium books.\n\n\n\n Medieval Latin Students' Songs Translated into English Verse by John Addington Symonds\n"}
{"id": "20841228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20841228", "title": "Contemporary Music Project", "text": "Contemporary Music Project\n\nIn 1957, the Ford Foundation began to explore the relationship between arts and American society. Resulting from a suggestion by Norman Dello Joio, the Young Composers Project (YCP) was founded in 1959. Funded by the Ford Foundation and administered by the National Music Council, the project placed young composers (age 35 and under) in public school systems as composers-in-residence.\n\nFrom 1959 to 1962, 31 composers participated in the project. They discovered that many music educators were not prepared to deal with contemporary music. In 1962 the YCP was elevated from a pilot program to one of the ten major projects of the Ford Foundation. The Music Educators National Conference () submitted a proposal to the Ford Foundation that the project be expanded to include seminars and workshops on contemporary music in the schools, and that pilot programs be established in public schools. In 1963 the Ford Foundation awarded MENC a grant of $1,380,000 to organize the Contemporary Music Project for Creativity in Music Education. YCP continued under the title Composers in Public Schools. By 1968, 46 more composers had been matched with public school systems.\n\nOne of the first activities of the Contemporary Music Project was the establishment of 16 workshops and seminars held at various colleges throughout the country to help teachers better understand contemporary music. Six pilot projects were established in schools, including the Baltimore, San Diego, and Farmingdale, New York systems.\n\nIn 1965 the Seminar on Comprehensive Musicianship was held at Northwestern University. Its purpose was to develop and implement means of improving the education of music teachers. In 1967 a symposium was held at Arlie House in Warrenton, Virginia to discuss means of evaluating Comprehensive Musicianship. The resultant document, \"Procedures for Evaluation of Music in Contemporary Education\", offers guidelines for the evaluation of techniques and attitudes acquired through comprehensive musicianship studies.\n\nIn 1968 the Ford Foundation gave MENC a grant of $1,340,000 to administer the Contemporary Music Project for an additional five years. MENC contributed $50,000 per year. From 1968 to 1973 the Contemporary Music Project consisted of three programs: Professionals-in-Residence to Communities, the Teaching of Comprehensive Musicianship, and Complementary Activities.\n\nMark, M. (1986). Contemporary Music Education. New York: Schirmer Books.\n\n"}
{"id": "10909052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10909052", "title": "Data-driven learning", "text": "Data-driven learning\n\nData-driven learning (DDL) is an approach to foreign language learning. Whereas most language learning is guided by teachers and textbooks, data-driven learning treats language as data and students as researchers undertaking guided discovery tasks. Underpinning this pedagogical approach is the \"data - information - knowledge\" paradigm (see DIKW pyramid). It is informed by a pattern-based approach to grammar and vocabulary, and a lexicogrammatical approach to language in general. Thus the basic task in DDL is to identify patterns at all levels of language. From their findings, foreign language students can see how an aspect of language is typically used, which in turn informs how they can use it in their own speaking and writing. Learning how to frame language questions and use the resources to obtain data and interpret it is fundamental to learner autonomy. When students arrive at their own conclusions through such procedures, they use their higher order thinking skills (see Bloom's taxonomy) and are creating knowledge (see Vygotsky). \n\nIn DDL, students use the same types of tools that professional linguists use, namely a corpus of texts that have been sampled and stored electronically, and a concordancer, which is a search engine designed for linguistic analysis. Some tools have been specifically created for data-driven learning, such as SkELL and Micro-concord.\n\nMicro-concord was the first significant software designed for classroom use. It was developed for the MS-DOS microcomputers by Tim Johns and Mike Scott and published for DOS computers in 1993 by OUP. It evolved into the widely-used WordSmith Tools.\n\nJohns (1936 – 2009) pioneered data-driven learning and coined the term. It first appeared in an article, \"Should you be persuaded: Two examples of data-driven learning\" (1991) . His paper, \"From Printout to Handout,\" is reprinted and discussed at length in Volume 2 of Hubbard's \"Computer-Assisted Language Learning\". Thomas' task-based \"Discovering English with Sketch Engine\" exemplifies DDL and acknowledges Johns throughout. Other recent books on DDL which credit Johns as the originator of the approach include those by Anderson and Corbett (2009) , Reppen (2010) , Bennett (2010) , Flowerdew (2102) , Boulton and Tyne (2014) , and Friginal (2018). . \n\nJohns worked at the English for Overseas Students Unit of Birmingham University from 1971 till the end of his career. This was while John Sinclair led a large team of linguists at Birmingham University working on the COBUILD project which delivered the first major corpus-based dictionaries and grammars of English for foreign students. COBUILD however, never tasked students with exploring language data themselves.\n\nJohns' referred to his specific DDL approach as kibitzing: when he returned his students' written work, together they would explore the errors using corpus data. A selection of these Kibbitzer tutorials are accessible on Mike Scott’s website. \n\nDespite the widespread awareness of corpora among the major movers and shakers in foreign language teaching, \nDDL is not widely embraced by its practitioners. One of the main reasons for this is the incompatibility of views on language and language learning: traditional language teachers and textbooks have a prescriptive view of language treating it as a system of rules to be memorised, engaging only lower order thinking skills. A descriptive view of language permits the observation of language patterns and outliers that exist in language itself. DDL positions students to use higher order thinking skills to learn how to learn to make and learn from their own observations. Such guided discovery leads to fuzzy results, which are incompatible with prescriptive linguistics and teaching. \n\nThere is a considerable body of research conducted into DDL as evidenced by the professional bodies, books, journal articles and conference presentations. TaLC (Teaching and Language Corpora) is a biennial conference that is a platform for corpus-based research that has a pedagogical focus. CorpusCALL is a special interest group within EuroCALL and is mostly active through its Facebook group. The online teaching journal, Humanising Language Teaching hosts a section called Corpus Ideas.\n"}
{"id": "4658786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4658786", "title": "Department of Education (South Africa)", "text": "Department of Education (South Africa)\n\nThe Department of Education \n\nwas one of the departments of the South African government until 2009, when it was divided into the Department of Basic Education and the Department of Higher Education and Training. It oversaw the education and training system of South Africa, including schools and universities. The political head of the department was the Minister of Education, the last of which was Naledi Pandor.\n"}
{"id": "46711920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46711920", "title": "Edwise International", "text": "Edwise International\n\nEdwise International is an overseas educational consultancy established in 1991 with over 26 branches all over India that provides free guidance to students interested in studying abroad. The company represents over 677 universities. in UK, USA, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Singapore, Switzerland, Ireland, France, Dubai, Malaysia, Germany, Denmark, Spain, Mauritius and India.\n\nEdwise’s primary service is career and academic counseling for students who wish to study abroad; they organize WEF- World Education Fairs in February, May and September. They also provide coaching for International English Language Testing System (IELTS), Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), Pearson Language Tests (PTE-A), Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT), Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) and Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT).\n\nEdwise has memberships with AAERI (Association of Australia Education Representation of India). , and is an Education New Zealand Recognized Agent (ENZRA)., PTE Test Centre, Barrons Test Prep. Their certification is from the American International Recruitment Council (AIRC).\n\n"}
{"id": "34469389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34469389", "title": "Fitocracy", "text": "Fitocracy\n\nFitocracy is an online game and social network that aims to use gamification to help users improve their fitness. It has received coverage from mainstream media sources.\n\nThe site was created by Richard Talens and Brian Wang, two self-described computer nerds who had succeeded in improving their own fitness and decided that game mechanics could help others to do the same.\n\nFitocracy launched in February 2011, using an invite system to control new user signups. Invite codes were initially distributed through sites such as Reddit.\n\nIn November 2011, the site introduced advertising, along with a paid option, known as Fitocracy Hero, which was advertisement-free and offered additional features. By then, Fitocracy claimed to have 120,000 users and a waiting list of a further 120,000.\n\nIn January 2012, Fitocracy began a partnership with Red Bull in which the site would be used to host the Red Bull Fitness Challenge.\n\nBy the end of January 2012, Fitocracy claimed a user base of 230,000 registered members.\n\nIn March 2012, Fitocracy launched an app for iOS devices.\n\nIn January 2013, Fitocracy launched an app for Android.\n\nIn March 2013, Fitocracy reached one million users and also announced a collaboration with Arnold Schwarzenegger, which challenges users to exercise for 15 minutes per day.\n\nIn August 2014, Fitocracy was listed as one of TIME's Best Websites of 2014.\n\nFitocracy users log their exercise activity by selecting from a collection of activities such as weight lifting or running and entering details such as weight lifted or distance run. Points are awarded based on the estimated fitness benefit of each activity. Users must reach points thresholds in order to \"level up\".\n\nThe site presents users with \"quests\" to perform for additional points, typically consisting of a set of related activities. Particularly significant fitness milestones are recognized with achievement badges.\n\nIn addition to the game, Fitocracy also provides a social network which enables users to 'follow' other users, view and comment on their workouts and join groups for specific interests.\n\nFitocracy was initially covered by technology and gaming focused media, such as Tech Crunch, \"Slate\", Lifehacker, where it won a vote for 'Most Popular Fitness Tracking Site', \"Kotaku\", and \"Destructoid\". As it grew, it was covered by more mainstream media, including \"Popular Mechanics\", \"The New York Observer\", CNN, \"The New York Times\" and \"The Globe and Mail\".\n\nFitocracy was nominated in the 2012 Shorty Awards. Although it received the most votes in its category, Social Fitness, it was not selected as the winner by the judges.\n"}
{"id": "18845119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18845119", "title": "Gamaliel Foundation", "text": "Gamaliel Foundation\n\nGamaliel Foundation provides training and consultation and develops national strategy for its affiliated congregation-based community organizations. As of 2013, Gamaliel has 45 affiliates in 17 U.S. states, the United Kingdom, and South Africa, and claims to represent over a million people.\n\nThe Gamaliel Foundation was founded in Chicago in 1968 to assist the Contract Buyers League, which worked to assist African-American home buyers in the city’s West Side. Gamaliel was reoriented to focus on community organizing when Gregory Galluzzo was hired as executive director in 1986. Seeing its basic function as training and developing leaders in low-income communities, Gamaliel’s goal is \"to assist local community leaders to create, maintain and expand independent, grassroots, and powerful faith-based community organizations\" that have the power to influence political and economic decisions that impact cities and regions. The name \"Gamaliel\" refers to the Biblical wise man who was a teacher to St. Paul (see Acts 5:38-39; and Acts 22:3), whom Saul Alinsky considered to be the first great congregation-based organizer.\n\nGamaliel Foundation works in the community organizing tradition of Alinsky, who began his work in Chicago with the Back of the Yards Neighborhood Council in 1939. Following Alinsky’s death in 1972, his Industrial Areas Foundation, under executive director Edward T. Chambers, moved toward a congregation-based organizing model, emphasizing training and leadership development. Gamaliel has developed along a similar path under the direction of Galluzzo, a former Roman Catholic priest who got his introduction to community organizing in the early 1970s in Chicago, where he worked with the Pilsen Neighborhood Community Council, mentored by such organizers as Tom Gaudette and John Baumann (the founder of PICO National Network).\n\nGamaliel’s board of directors has 15 members, and is the ultimate governing authority for the organization, setting policy and overseeing management. The board and staff are advised by the National Clergy Caucus, the African American Leadership Commission, and the International Leadership Assembly. Gamaliel operates with a small staff (approximately 20 in 2008), supplemented by interns and consultants. For example, during the period Barack Obama worked as a community organizer with the Developing Communities Project on the far South Side of Chicago (1985-1988), he was also a consultant and trainer for the Gamaliel Foundation. Gamaliel has five regional directors covering the Eastern, Mideastern, Midwestern, Southern, and Western United States. Affiliated organizations are incorporated separately, raise their own funds, and employ their own organizers. Ana Garcia Ashley became the executive director of Gamaliel in January 2011.\n\nGamaliel has refocused its efforts from neighborhood organizations to coalitions that can influence wider metropolitan areas and regions. Gamaliel has begun to formulate strategies for impacting national policy on such issues as comprehensive immigration reform, health care for all, jobs and full employment, affordable housing, and equal access public transportation systems. The Transportation Equity Network (TEN) is a Gamaliel project. To date, the major focus of Gamaliel has been such metropolitan areas as Chicago, St. Louis, Cleveland, Detroit, Northwest Indiana, Milwaukee, Minneapolis, and Kansas City, Missouri. Gamaliel’s long-range plan is to build a metropolitan organization in every major population area in the United States over the next ten years, including raising the necessary money and recruiting the 200 professional organizers essential to reach this goal.\n\nGamaliel conducts one-week national leadership trainings three times a year in the United States and once a year in South Africa. A three-day advanced training is held annually for leaders who have attended the seven-day national training. A three-day pastors training is offered for leaders who pastor churches. Each December Gamaliel holds a three-day staff training retreat for all the organizers in its network. Gamaliel also conducts numerous half-day, full-day, and weekend trainings for local communities. Ntosake (\"she who walks with lions and carries her own things\") is a year-long Gamaliel women’s empowerment and leadership development program.\n\nThemes of Gamaliel trainings include such topics as \"the world as it is\" versus \"the world as it should be,\" engaging the public arena, principles of congregation-based community organizing, power, self-interest, \"one-on-one\" relational meetings as a building block of organizing, agitation, metropolitan organizing, and building and sustaining an organization.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21435868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21435868", "title": "Heidi Hayes Jacobs", "text": "Heidi Hayes Jacobs\n\nDr. Heidi Hayes Jacobs (born October 4, 1948) is an author and internationally recognized education leader known for her work in curriculum mapping, curriculum integration, and developing 21st century approaches to teaching and learning.\n\nJacobs is President of Curriculum Designers, Inc. and Executive Director of the Curriculum Mapping Institute. She works as an education consultant with schools and districts K–12 on issues and practices pertaining to: curriculum reform, instructional strategies to encourage critical thinking, and strategic planning.\n\nDr. Heidi Hays Jacobs was born on October 4, 1948.\n\nShe completed her doctoral work at Columbia University’s Teachers College in 1981. She received her master's degree from the UMass at Amherst; her undergraduate studies were at the University of Utah in her hometown of Salt Lake City.\n\n\"Curriculum 21: Essential Education for a Changing World\", ASCD, Alexandria, VA. January, 2010. (with Jaimie Cloud)\n\n\"The Curriculum Mapping Planner: Templates, Tools, and Resources for Effective Professional Development\", ASCD, Alexandria, VA. 2009. (with Ann Johnson) \n\n\"Active Literacy Across the Curriculum: Strategies for Reading, Writing, Speaking, and Listening\", Larchmont, NY. April 2006.\n\n\"Getting Results with Curriculum Mapping,\" ASCD, Akexandria, VA. November, 2004.\n\n\"Mapping the Big Picture: Integrating Curriculum and Assessment K–12\" ASCD, Alexandria, VA, 1997.\n\n\"Interdisciplinary Curriculum: Design and Implementation.\" ASCD, Alexandria, VA. 1989.\n\nJacobs is President of Curriculum Designers, Inc., and Co-founder and Executive Director, of the Curriculum Mapping Institute. She has taught in the Department of Curriculum and Teaching, at Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, from 1981 to the present. She is a co-founder of The Hollingworth Center also at Teachers College, Columbia University.\n\nDr, Jacobs has consulted with a wide range of organizations including: the College Board, NBC's Sunday \"Today Show\", Children’s Television Workshop, CBS National Sunrise Semester, Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development ASCD, IBM EduQuest, The Discovery Channel, Tapestry Productions, The Kennedy Center, Carnegie Council on Adolescent Development, New York City Ballet Education Department at the Lincoln Center, the Peace Corps, the National School Conference Institute, the Disney Company, Prentice-Hall Publishing, the Near East School Association based in Athens, Greece, International Baccalaureate, the European Council of International Schools, and state education departments.\n\nInterviews and features on Jacobs have appeared in: \"The New York Times\", \"Educational Leadership\", \"Child Magazine\", Sunburst Communications video on Successful Middle Schools, and National Public Radio \"Talk of the Nation\" Broadcast. Dr. Jacobs has published curriculum materials with Prentice Hall, Milton-Bradley, the Electric Company, and Bowmar Publishing. Video Journal of Education features a series on her work, in addition, two other video series developed by ASCD focus on Dr. Jacobs’ curriculum models. PBS features two of her courses for teachers, \"Curriculum Mapping\" by Heidi Hayes Jacobs I & II, in their professional development program, PBS TeacherLine, delivered on-line.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6867261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6867261", "title": "Hildegart Rodríguez Carballeira", "text": "Hildegart Rodríguez Carballeira\n\nHildegart Rodríguez Carballeira (December 9, 1914 in Madrid – June 9, 1933 in Madrid) was an activist for socialism and sexual revolution, born and raised by her mother as a model for the woman of the future. She spoke 6 languages when eight years old, finished law school as a teenager, and was a leader of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and afterward of the Federal Party. By the time she was 17 years old and had become internationally known, her mother shot her to death.\n\nHildegart was conceived in Ferrol by Aurora Rodríguez Carballeira and an undisclosed biological father chosen by her mother with eugenic intentions. When she was sure she was pregnant, she moved to Madrid, where Hildegart was born. Aurora set a clock to wake herself up every hour, allowing her to change her sleep position so blood could irrigate the fetus uniformly.\n\nHer birth certificate and baptism act says: Hildegart Leocadia Georgina Hermenegilda Maria del Pilar Rodriguez Carballeira, but she only used her first name. In spite of Aurora's atheism and opposition to birth registration, she baptised (late) the girl on 23 March and registered on 29 April. Her mother used to explain that Hildegart meant \"Garden of Wisdom\" in German, but there's no basis to that, the name was either an invention or an alternative spelling of the Nordic/German name Hildegard.\n\nAccording to later research by Rosa Cal, her father was a brilliant military chaplain, Alberto Payás.\n\nIn June 1928, at age 13½, Hildegart enrolled in the School of Law of the Complutense University of Madrid. She later gave lessons at its School of Philosophy during the Second Spanish Republic.\n\nHildegart was one of the most active people in the Spanish movement for sex reformation.\nShe was connected to the European vanguard, corresponding with Havelock Ellis, whom she translated, and Margaret Sanger.\nIn the foundation of the Spanish League for the Sexual Reform, presided by Dr Gregorio Marañón, she was chosen secretary without opposition.\n\nShe had correspondence with many other European personalities, accompanying Herbert George Wells in his visit to Madrid, but rejecting his offer to go to London as his secretary.\nThis offer by Wells, who wanted her to develop fully out of the influence of her mother, furthered the persecution ideas of Aurora.\n\nThere were several hypotheses about the cause of the murder. Hildegart may have fallen in love. She intended to separate from her mother who, out of paranoia, threatened suicide. Aurora's explanation was that \"the sculptor, after discovering a minimal imperfection in his work, destroys it.\" She shot her daughter twice in the head and twice in the heart (three shots to the head and one to the heart, according to Spanish Wikipedia) (one shot to the head and three to the heart, according to Giles Tremlett's Ghosts of Spain).\n\nShe was sentenced to 26 years, but was later transferred to a mental institution in Ciempozuelos, Madrid, where she died in 1955.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6362034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6362034", "title": "Holistic grading", "text": "Holistic grading\n\nStandards based tests use holistic grading to establish scoring of a paper. It can also be used to assess classroom-based work. Rather than counting errors, a paper is judged holistically if it has too many or too few errors to merit a 1, 2 or 3, compared to an anchor paper, or if it meets a writing standard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25204243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25204243", "title": "Illinois Board of Higher Education", "text": "Illinois Board of Higher Education\n\nThe Illinois Board of Higher Education (IBHE) is a state government agency that oversees higher education in the U.S. state of Illinois. The IBHE was created in 1961. Since 2012 the IBHE also permits and oversees business schools and other vocational schools, which were formerly overseen by the Illinois State Board of Education.\n\nThe Board itself has 16 members:\nThe Chairman of the Board is designated by the Governor \"to serve until a successor is designated\". Of the 12 board members appointed by the Governor, but excluding the Chairman of the Board, no more than 7 may be affiliated with the same political party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7225237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7225237", "title": "International Certificate of Competence", "text": "International Certificate of Competence\n\nAn International Certificate of Competence (ICC) is a certificate, which may be issued to anyone who has successfully completed certain \"national boating licenses\" or has passed an \"examination\" to prove the necessary competence for pleasure craft operation.\n\nPersons wishing to be tested in the United Kingdom need to be tested by an approved ICC test centre \n\nAlthough only guaranteed to be accepted in countries that have adopted the relevant UN Resolution, the ICC is a useful document to carry and will generally be accepted where proof of competence is required.\n\nIn very general terms an ICC is required for the inland waterways of Europe and for inland and coastal waters of Mediterranean countries. For the coastal waters of Northern Europe the ICC is generally not required, however to all of these generalisations there are exceptions.\n\nThe ICC is a product of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe Inland Water Committee (UN ECE IWC) Resolution 40 (hereafter called Resolution 40).\nThis states that the ICC may be issued by a government of one state to its nationals and residents who may be on the waters of a foreign state, on condition that both accept the requirements and conditions set out in Resolution 40.\n\nGovernments may appoint competent authorities to issue ICC on their behalf. Globally International Yacht Training Worldwide (IYT) has been delegated such authority by both Ireland and the UK, and the Royal Yachting Association (RYA) and the British Sub-Aqua Club (BSAC) are both authorized by the UK.\nThe ICC provides documentary assurance from one government to another that the holder meets the levels of competence laid down in Resolution 40. However, the acceptance of Resolution 40 is often caveated.\n\nThe origins of the ICC arose from navigation on the Rhine and the Danube (Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine) and the need for reassurance that vessel operators were competent to ensure safety of navigation and protection of the environment as they moved from one country to another. As a result, on 29 January 1979, the United Nations Working Party on Inland Water Transport adopted Resolution 14, which recommended the introduction of a European document for an International Certificate (International Card) to provide those assurances.\nThe Resolution was also intended to facilitate 'waterborne tourism'. Until then operators could well have been expected to produce competency certificates for each country whose waters they were on.\n\nIn the mid-nineties, the Working Group on Inland Water Transport considered that Resolution 14 needed updating and strengthening and on 16 October 1998 the Working Party adopted their revisions as Resolution 40; this replaced Resolution 14.\n\nThe \"International Certificate for Operators of Pleasure Craft\" created in Resolution 40 is now more commonly referred to as the \"International Certificate of Competence\" or simply \"ICC\". The ICC is only applicable where the visited state has also adopted or recognises the ICC as a valid standard of competency.\n\nResolution 40 not only included operators of pleasure craft bound for or on the inland and coastal waters of foreign states but specifically included bareboat charter vessels. Significantly, it also set out the nautical, regulatory and technical competency requirements to be achieved and a minimum age (16 years of age) for the issue of an ICC irrespective of individual national schemes.\n\nIt is the professional opinion of the UNECE IWC that the standards set out in Resolution 40 provide a reasonable and appropriate level of competence for day sailing with due regard to the safety of navigation and crew and the protection of the environment. It is strongly recommended that governments recognise this rather than be drawn into discussions on where the ICC may or may not fit into their own national schemes – much the same as acceptance of the international driving licence.\n\nAs of 2013 only 22 countries have adopted either resolution so far, of which 16 are EU member states. In reality many countries choose to accept the ICC even though they have not adopted the resolution – but of course this is on their terms and can be subject to local variations. Spain, Greece and Portugal, for example, have not adopted Resolution 40 but are still most likely to ask visitors for an ICC. In reality, the ICC is more widely accepted as proof of the holder’s competence than adoption of Resolution 40 would suggest.\n\nThe following UNECE member states have adopted Resolution 40 and thus officially accept the ICC as a proof of competence in their territories:\n\nAustria,\nBelarus,\nBelgium,\nBulgaria,\nCroatia,\nCzech Republic,\nFinland,\nGermany,\nHungary,\nIreland,\nLithuania,\nLuxembourg,\nNetherlands,\nNorway,\nRomania,\nSlovakia,\nSouth Africa (not a member state),\nSwitzerland and\nthe United Kingdom.\n\nThe following UNECE member states have adopted the earlier Resolution 14. Also these countries accept the ICC:\n\nFrance,\nItaly and\nPoland.\n\nThe following UNECE member states have not accepted the Resolution 40 nor the Resolution 14:\n\nGreece,\nMoldova,\nPortugal,\nSpain,\nRussian Federation,\nSerbia,\nSweden,\nUkraine and\nUnited States.\n\nFinland has adopted the resolution but does not require the ICC for normal yachts (\"sufficient age and skill\" is enough) and does not use CEVNI for its inland waters.\n\nSome official and some quality assured non-official certificates (mainly the coastal master certificates of the navigation association and the scouts) are regarded as fulfilling knowledge requirements of ICC for coastal waters. Courses for the CEVNI part are arranged separately by many organisations. The certificate itself is issued by the authorities, usually based on such documents.\n\nThe ICC is required for masters of boats chartered manned for international voyages (in addition to a domestic certificate) and for masters of recreational vessels with length more than 24 metres.\n\nIYT Worldwide is authorized by the Irish Department of Transport to issue ICCs to any nationality provided they meet the knowledge and competency standards required. The Irish Sailing Association is authorized by the Irish Department of Transport. Uniquely, IYT Worldwide has been approved by the Irish Government to issue ICC s to any qualified applicants of any nationality on their behalf. \nThe ICC enables owners vessels to use them in those European waters where an ICC is required, and proves to local authorities that the skipper has the required Irish qualifications for skippering the vessel.\n\nInternational Yacht Training Worldwide (IYT Worldwide), The Royal Yachting Association (RYA), and the British Sub-Aqua Club (BSAC) are with the authority of the Maritime and Coastguard Agency (MCA) approved to issue ICCs to those who meet the mandated requirements and the competency requirements.\n\nICC's are able to be issued by these Associations to citizens of Nations who are not signatories. In this manner, for example, USA citizens can gain the ICC. In the USA, NauticEd International Sailing Education facilitates the issuance of the ICC through the UK government via the Royal Yachting Association.\n\nUK ICCs are for use on British registered vessels in the waters of foreign states that participate in Resolution 40, without the need to comply with those states’ national certification requirements. An ICC does not enable a British ICC holder to skipper a non-British registered vessel. If a British skipper wants to skipper a non-British registered vessel then he/she must be qualified per the regulations of the country in which the vessel is registered.\n\nThe UK ICC was only available to British citizens or bona fide British residents.This has now been extended to cover other Nationals.\n\n"}
{"id": "42727309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42727309", "title": "International Physicists' Tournament", "text": "International Physicists' Tournament\n\nThe International Physicists' Tournament (IPT) is a physics competition for undergraduate students, bachelors or master level (or equivalent), in which students representing their nation and institution have typically 9 months to solve a set of challenging unsolved physics problems, then present and defend them to other teams . The tournament originated in Ukraine in 2009 between the Ukraine and the Russian Federation, but, it has since grown to encompass numerous countries spanning multiple continents. It was initially inspired by the International Young Physicists' Tournament (IYPT) and follows a similar model. Undergraduates may be accompanied by team leaders, who are usually academic research staff or doctoral research students.\n\nTeams of up to 6 students are provided with a list of 17 problems which require a combination of experimental and theoretical approaches to their solution. The problems often have no exact solution and are not described directly in the scientific literature . Teams may also be accompied by up to two team leaders (usually academic teachers, researchers or students), as well as supporting guests. A typical round in the tournament sees one team acting as a reporter, another acting as an opponent and a third acting as a reviewer. Under special circumstances a fourth team may also be present, which acts purely as an observer. After each round, the teams change roles and repeat until each team has played each role. Each of these roles is outlined below.\n\nThe goal of the reporter is to present their solution to the problem challenged by the opponent. The reporter ideally presents a solution that contains both a theoretical and experimental treatment of the chosen problem. The presentation should include an outline which helps the audience to develop a good physical intuition for the problem.\n\nThe reporting team must also be able to defend their solution against criticism. This criticism is provided by the other teams and by a panel of judges called 'the jury' during the discussion that follows the reporting team's presentation.\n\nThe opponent's job is to challenge the reporter to present their solution to one of the 17 initial problems. The goal of the opponent is to find the pros and cons of the reporter's solution and to present their critique it in a short review at the end or the reporters presentation. During this critique, the opponent must suggest the topics that will be the focus of subsequent discussion between the reporting and opposing teams.\n\nThe goal of the reviewer is to give a brief review of the reporter and opponent presentations. They must then discuss and highlight the main ideas that emerged as a result of this discussion while also highlighting any points that the two teams may have overlooked. Although the reviewer can ask questions to the reporter and opponent and take part in the discussion about the problems, their main role is to help the two other teams to reach a consensus and agree on what has been done and what more could be done to solve the problem.\n\nWhen more than three teams are present, a fourth role is used - that of the observer. The observing team simply watches the round, but cannot participate in any of the discussions.\n\nThe jury is made up of a panel of senior academics and members of the IPT international organising committee. Their role is to provide a grade from 1-10 for each team and should be one which reflects each team's performance during the round. The grades are awarded based on a series of guidelines which vary for each role (Reporter, Opponent or Reviewer). However, there is a certain level of subjectivity when it comes to awarding the marks and each jury member is encouraged to use his/her discretion when applying the guidelines.\n\nThe tournament is represented by the International Organising Committee (IOC), which comprises representatives from each of the participating countries as well as the executive committee (also shortened to execom). The tournament is continuously managed by an executive committee composed of PhD and academic researchers and teachers from numerous participating countries. The committee is in charge of the likes of; problem selection, year round communication to participants, maintenance of the website and outreach, maintaining and improving the rules and executing the decisions made by the representatives of the countries part of the IPT. On the local level of the tournament, a Local Organising Committee (LOC) from the host institution and the IOC organises the tournament. The execom, and by extension the IPT, is headed by a president voted by the country representatives once every two years. The current president of the IPT is David Collomb . The other required posts include the secretary, treasurer and the vice-president. It is important to note that the execom has no voting power.\n\nShould more than one institution per country a apply, the participating country should organise a national selection process. This is organised by the IOC member representing the country and ideally follows the format of the international competition using a subset of the 17 problems chosen. Often the winner of these national selections will hold the country's spot in the final tournament. Should the number of countries registering for the tournament outweigh the number of places available (currently 21), a pre-selection process will be engaged. This pre-selection - or qualification - requires teams registered to submit a report on a one of a subset of the problems. The reports are graded by peer review from various academic research staff and then a rank is drawn to determine which nation's teams will qualify for the final tournament.\n\nThe tournament is composed of selective fights (usually four) and a final fight. Every team competes in all the selective fights, but only the three (or four) teams with the largest number of marks after the selective fights take part in the final.\n\nEach fight involves three (or four) teams competing against each other in three (or four) rounds. During each round, these teams will act as either Reporter, Opponent or Reviewer (and Observer, if the group contains four teams). The teams then rotate around each of the roles until each team has played each role.\n\nUp to a maximum of two weeks following the previous tournament, suggestions for the next edition's problems are open to the public. Once enough suggested problems have been collected, a committee of academic researchers associated with the IPT gather and form a shortlist of problems for members of participating countries to assign up to 100 points per country to problems. The problems are then ranked by points and re-assessed by the committee, before being released to the public.\n\nBelow is a list, along with country of origin, of the institutions who have and currently are participating in the IPT. This may be either through only the pre-selection or the final tournament. Alongside is also indicated past victories with a ★.\n\nThe first logo of the International Physicists' Tournament consisted of a collage representing the different fields of physics. The general outline represent electron orbits around a coat of arms. Six symbols placed in the orbit lobs represents (clockwise) Atomic physics, Crystallography, Classical mechanics, Thermodynamics, Electromagnetism and Optics. Two wands crossing over the arm of coats symbolises the confrontation during the Physics Fights. Finally, a ribbon is laid across the logo with the letters IPT imprinted in the middle.\n\n"}
{"id": "2703060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2703060", "title": "Isfahan University of Art", "text": "Isfahan University of Art\n\nIsfahan University of Art (AUI) () is a public University in Isfahan, Iran. It operated under the name of \"Farabi University\" before 1978, then it became a campus of the University of Art (based at Art University in Tehran). It was separated and became independent in 1999. The university owns some of the greatest houses in Isfahan, mostly of the Safavid period. The university's buildings are spread out over the city, most of which are old historic sites such as Tohid Khaane Building, David House, Martha Peters House, Haratian House, Sookiaas House, Haghighi House, France School and Ayyoubi and Melal House.\n\nC:Majors: Handicrafts, Carpet design, Writing and Painting\n\n"}
{"id": "3116819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3116819", "title": "Jane Addams School for Democracy", "text": "Jane Addams School for Democracy\n\nLocated in West Side Saint Paul, Minnesota at Baker Center, the Jane Addams School for Democracy was an organization dedicated to the ideals of democracy and citizenship. In an environment that seeks to embody the principles of democratic education, recent immigrants and college students from the surrounding community come together to benefit from one another's experiences. This was accomplished through cultural exchanges that take place in several learning circles, where each circle represents a major language other than English that is spoken by the participants. Over time, the Jane Addams School expanded to hold four such learning circles: East African, Hmong, Spanish, and another for Children. The school was administered by the Center for Democracy and Citizenship at the University of Minnesota which moved to Augsburg College in 2009 and was renamed the Sabo Center for Democracy and Citizenship . The program closed in December 2016.\n\nWhile much of the work at Jane Addams School was focused on language and citizenship, the school engaged in all issues that affect the lives of its participants through public work initiatives that include neighborhood art and theater projects with children, efforts to improve education at local schools, a community wellness project, and work with immigrants on new policy initiatives for citizenship, health care, transportation, and housing.\n\nTaking inspiration from the Chicago Hull House founded by the sociologist Jane Addams, the Jane Addams School for Democracy seeks to create an environment where immigrants and college students mutually learn from one another in the spirit of democracy, citizenship, and public work. The School lists its values as including the belief that everyone is a teacher and everyone is a learner, all cultures should be honored, adults and children learn together, citizenship means making contributions to the community, and changes occur when people work together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1745942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1745942", "title": "Learning by teaching", "text": "Learning by teaching\n\nIn the field of pedagogy, learning by teaching (German: \"Lernen durch Lehren\", short LdL) is a method of teaching in which students are made to learn material and prepare lessons to teach it to the other students. There is a strong emphasis on acquisition of life skills along with the subject matter. This method was originally defined by Jean-Pol Martin in the 1980s.\n\nThe method of having students teach other students has been present since antiquity. Most often this was due to lack of resources. For example, the Monitorial System was an education method that became popular on a global scale during the early 19th century. It was developed in parallel by Scotsman Andrew Bell who had worked in Madras and Joseph Lancaster who worked in London; each attempted to educate masses of poor children with scant resources by having older children teach younger children what they had already learned.\n\nSystematic research into intentionally improving education, by having students learn by teaching began in the middle of the 20th century.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Jean-Pol Martin systematically developed the concept of having students teach other in the context of learning French as a foreign language, and he gave it a theoretical background in numerous publications. The method was originally resisted, as the German educational system generally emphasized discipline and rote learning. However the method became widely used in Germany in secondary education, and in the 1990s it was further formalized and began to be used in universities as well. By 2008 Martin had retired, and although he remained active Joachim Grzega took the lead in developing and promulgating LdL.\n\nAfter preparation by the teacher, students become responsible for their own learning and teaching. The new material is divided into small units and student groups of not more than three people are formed.\n\nStudents are then encouraged to experiment to find ways to teach the material to the others. Along with ensuring that students learn the material, another goal of the method, is to teach students life skills like respect for other people, planning, problem solving, taking chances in public, and communication skills. The teacher remains actively involved, stepping in to further explain or provide support if the teaching-students falter or the learning-students do not seem to understand the material.\n\nThe method is distinct from tutoring in that LdL is done in class, supported by the teacher, and distinct from student teaching, which is a part of teacher education.\n\nOne way of learning by teaching, is the plastic platypus learning or platypus learning technique. This technique is based on evidence that show that teaching an inanimate object improves understanding and knowledge retention of a subject. \n\nThe advantage of this technique is that that the learner does not need the presence of another person in order to teach the subject.\n\nThe name 'plastic platypus learning' is a paraphrase on the known software engineering technique rubber duck debugging, in which a programmer can find bugs in their code without the help of others, simply by explaining what the code does, line by line, to an inanimate object - namely, a rubber duck.\nTo increase the effectiveness of plastic platypus learning, learners are advised to do the following:\n\n1. Prepare notes while learning the subject.\n\n2. Prepare the lesson on the subject (as opposed to just teaching it unprepared; this section demands the most time and energy, and may be omitted in some situations).\n\n3. Teach the subject without using the notes at all (the student knows this beforehand).\nObviously, this technique may work with any inanimate object, and not just plastic platypuses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44063232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44063232", "title": "List of Laureate Education institutions", "text": "List of Laureate Education institutions\n\nThis is a list of past and present institutions of the Laureate International Universities network of Laureate Education.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38612994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38612994", "title": "Marcelo Araúz Lavadenz", "text": "Marcelo Araúz Lavadenz\n\nMarcelo Araúz Lavadenz is a Bolivian festival director, culture promoter, choir leader and music educator.\n\nHe was born on October 20, 1934 in Santa Cruz de la Sierra and spend his youth on the lowlands of Palmar de las Islas. He studied Sociology at the Katholic University of Leuven in Belgium.\n\nAraúz worked initially for the French Alliance française and the Casa de la Cultura Raúl Otero Reiche in Santa Cruz. Then he became secretary-general for the Asociación Pro Arte y Cultura (Apac), a Bolivian organization for the promotion of art and culture. Furthermore, he is the founder of Urubichá Choir that is dedicated to baroque music. The baroque in the region of Santa Cruz developed under the influence of old culture exchanges with the local Indian people.\n\nHe is director of two biannual international festivals in Bolovia in the field of music and theater: the \"Festival Internacional de Música Barroca y Renacentista \"Misiones de Chiquitos\"\" and the \"Festival Internacional de Santa Cruz de la Sierra\".\n\nAraúz was rewarded with prizes several times. One of them was the Prince Claus Award from the Netherlands in 2002. Furthermore he received the highest award of Bolivia in 2003, in the Order of the Condor of the Andes.\n"}
{"id": "27951966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27951966", "title": "Margaret Ponce Israel", "text": "Margaret Ponce Israel\n\nMargaret Ponce Israel (a/k/a Marge Israel) (1929–1987) was a painter and ceramist who lived and worked in New York City. She was married to New York artist Marvin Israel. Ponce was born in 1929 in Havana, Cuba, brought to the US as an infant. She died in 1987 at age 57 in Manhattan, hit by a tractor-trailer while riding her bike on West 23rd Street. \n\nIsrael attended the High School of Music & Art in New York and Syracuse University, studying ceramics at Greenwich House Pottery, where she eventually became an instructor. In 1956 Israel won both first and second prize in ceramics at the \"Young Americans\" exhibition at the Museum of Contemporary Crafts, today the Museum of Arts and Design.\n\nUpon her death, her studio was overflowing with artwork. Her studio/home was a three-story building in Manhattan that was once a horse stable. There she housed a bantam rooster, guinea hens, doves, a rabbit, dogs, and a cat. Her works depict many of these animals, and an exhibit of her work, \"A Domestic Bestiary,\" was at the Perimeter Gallery in Chicago in February, 1998. She taught at Parsons School of Design; Greenwich House Pottery; High School of Music & Art; Y.M.H.A.; all in NYC, and at Ecole des Beaux Arts; Stanley William Hayter Graphic Art Studio; Atelier 17; and, Academie de la Grande Chaumiere all in Paris, France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36676437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36676437", "title": "Murder of Yuriy Chervochkin", "text": "Murder of Yuriy Chervochkin\n\nYuriy Mikhailovich Chervochkin (; 31 December 1984 – 10 December 2007) was a Russian opposition activist. He was murdered at the age of 22. His case shook Russian opposition because he was attacked two days before Dissenters' March and some observers remained convinced that perpetrators of the crime were members of Russian Militsiya.\n\nIn 2006, Chervochkin founded a branch of the National Bolshevik Party in Serpukhov. On 2 October 2006 Chervochkin had been part of a group of 50 national-bolsheviks detained while trying to pass the State Duma in Moscow. On 11 March 2007 Chervochkin had participated in direct action in a polling station in Odintsovo to protest against election rigging. Chervochkin was arrested during the action and was placed under arrest for a month. On 11 June 2007 he was beaten by the militsiya and arrested for 5 days.\nChevochkin was repeatedly detained during the Dissenters' Marches.\n\n22 November 2007 Chervochkin called a journalist hours before his attack and claimed he was being chased by the militsiya (UBOP), who had repeatedly detained and interrogated him earlier. According to some sources, he reported the same of his bride to be (the leader of National Bolsheviks of Tula Anna Ploskonosova), accusing an officer of militsiya, Alexey Okopny, of being behind it. In the evening he was beaten on the head with a baseball bat. Diagnosis explained an open brain injury and a fracture of the skull base. Chervochkin fell into coma. On 11 December 2007 Yuri Chervochkin died in hospital.\n\nThe perpetrators of the crime have never been found. Two investigations, carried out by the local prosecutor’s office, stalled and finally ended, due to lack of evidence.\n\nGarry Kasparov and Eduard Limonov participated in his funeral.\n\nOn 19 December 2007 Belarusian activists picketed the Russian Embassy in memory of Yuriy Chervochkin. On 17 January 2008 Russian opposition groups Oborona, NBP, RNDS, AKM protested in Moscow against the murder of Yuriy Chervochkin.\n\nChervochkin's family, friends and political comrades remained convinced that Chervochkin was the victim of Russian Militsiya. Some of observers believed that the attack may have been motivated by his political activism. Direct responsible for murder they call Department of fight against extremism of Office of fight against organized crime (UBOP) of the Moscow region and personally the chief of this department Alexey Okopny. According to them, Okopny repeatedly detained also interrogated Chervochkin; also shortly before murder Chervochkin reported that Okopny by phone threatened to break to it the head.\n\nOn 18 October 2012 Okopny brought an action against one of party leaders «Other Russia» (the former National Bolshevik Party) Sergei Aksenov and civil activist Pavel Shechtman, demanding a denial of statements about his participation in murder. December 6, 2012 the court sentenced Aksenov and Schechtman to a fine (in 40 and 50 thousand roubles), but did not require them to publish a refutation of charges A few days later, Pavel Shechtman published the article \"The Story of a Murder\", in which Okopny newly is accused of involvement in the murder, based this time on the materials of the judicial process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5022384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5022384", "title": "National Survey of Student Engagement", "text": "National Survey of Student Engagement\n\nThe National Survey of Student Engagement (NSSE) (pronounced: nessie) is a survey mechanism used to measure the level of student participation at universities and colleges in Canada and the United States as it relates to learning and engagement. The results of the survey help administrators and professors to assess their students' student engagement. The survey targets first-year and senior students on campuses. NSSE developed ten student Engagement Indicators (EIs) that are categorized in four general themes: academic challenge, learning with peers, experiences with faculty, and campus environment. Since 2000, there have been over 1,600 colleges and universities that have opted to participate in the survey. Additionally, approximately 5 million students within those institutions have completed the engagement survey. Overall, NSSE assesses \"effective teaching\" practices \"and\" student engagement in educationally purposeful activities. The survey is administered and assessed by Indiana University School of Education Center for Postsecondary Research.\n\nThe initial idea of the National Survey of Student Engagement centers on providing an alternative metric of evaluation for colleges and universities to measure “quality” on a national platform and it is designed specifically to gauge the extent of student engagement. The NSSE was birthed in 1998 and financially supported by a grant from the Pew Charitable Trusts. Much of the quality metrics according to the initial working group of higher education leaders that the Pew Charitable Trust organized concluded that there were few external incentives for institutions to partake in “\"meaningful quality improvement\".” The quality concept as it relates to colleges and universities has largely been impacted by accrediting agencies, government regulations (e.g. licensure standards), and \"third-party\" rankings (\"e.g.\" \"U.S. News and World Report\") that focus on student selectivity and faculty credentials. Nevertheless, these types of quality metrics do not give insight regarding the resources institutions invest to facilitate significant academic experiences/activities or effective instructional practices that demonstrate high-level of engagement and success in college\n\nThe National Survey of Student Engagement (NSSE) contestably, serves as a tool for four-year institutions to gather data centered on institutional quality, ultimately to be used to improve undergraduate studies. This quality is measured by the energy that students spend engaging in meaningful educational experiences ( high-impact\npractices) during college that have significantly impacted desired learning outcomes and overall student experiences, regardless of institutional type and the individual. Purposeful institutional priorities and practices lead to student engagement and student success in college. Institutions that align their resources to foster engagement potentially experience higher levels of quality– the marriage of purposeful engagement and institutional quality. There are several identifiers that researchers have studied that draw parallels to student success among institutions; the survey provides colleges and universities with the student engagement data that show strengths and opportunities for growth.\n\nStudents’ responses in the survey have been categorized into ten Engagement Indicators (EIs) and narrowly concentrated among four general themes: academic challenge, learning with\npeers, experiences with faculty, and campus environment. NSSEs ten Engagement Indicators include:higher-order learning, reflective and integrative learning, learning strategies, quantitative reasoning, learning with peers, discussions with diverse others, experiences with faculty, effective teaching practices, quality of interactions, and supportive environments. Moreover, NSSE provides results on six High-Impact practices (HIPs) that are duly noted for their positive outcomes on \"student learning\" and \"retention.\" These HIPs are known by researchers as educational experiences that shift one’s trajectory of success in college. The HIPs refer to: learning community, service-learning, research with faculty (effective for first-year student and seniors), internship or field experience, study abroad, and culminating senior experience that seniors should engage in (e.g. capstone project). In 2008, George Kuh suggested that all students should experience at least one HIP during their first-year and one during senior year. These teaching and learning practices have been proven to be beneficial to\ncollege students from various backgrounds.\n\nThe survey offers an unconventional assessment for evaluating collegiate quality by collecting data that is used to depict institutional experiences and instructional practices that affects learning and college student success. There are three envisioning principles for data collected by NSSE. The first is to allow a vehicle for institutions to improve upon its undergraduate studies program (e.g. how the institution aligns with its strategic foci). Secondly, external agencies such as accrediting bodies and state agencies of higher education could use the information to gauge institutional effectiveness. Lastly, the publication of results could be of interest to media outlets as a means of incorporating into college ranking metrics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6300796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6300796", "title": "Night school", "text": "Night school\n\nA night school is an adult learning school that holds classes in the evening or at night to accommodate people who work during the day. It can also apply to a community college or university that hold classes for the aforementioned purpose, but also admits undergraduates.\n"}
{"id": "50303818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50303818", "title": "Oberstudienrat (Germany)", "text": "Oberstudienrat (Germany)\n\nOberstudienrat (OStR) (senior councillor of studies) is an official title for a certain rank of teacher in Germany, mostly employed in state-run grammar schools. An \"Oberstudienrat\" is a civil servant who belongs to the \"höherer Dienst\" (higher service), a category which is senior to the \"gehobener\" (elevated), the \"mittlerer\" (middle) and the \"einfacher\" (ordinary) \"Dienstgrad\" (service rank) in the civil service. An \"Oberstudienrat\" is remunerated according to category \"A 14\", which means a salary of at least some 50 000  € per year, exactly as much as the lower-half Lieutenant Colonels, and after at least two but no more than eight years of service is roughly as much as the lowest rank of judges and state prosecutors. The equivalent title of an official in civil administration is \"Oberregierungsrat\" (senior councillor in government administration).\n\nThe \"Oberstudienrat\" is the position immediately senior to \"Studienrat\" (councillor in education). Until the 1980s this promotion was reached regularly after a specified time of service. Today, promotion mostly presupposes additional functions and duties.\n\nAbout 20 percent of civil servants at educational institutions in Germany are \"Oberstudienräte\" (2014).\n\nThe following higher ranks are \"Studiendirektor\" (director of studies) and \"Oberstudiendirektor\" (senior director of studies).\n\nIn the former German Democratic Republic, \"Oberstudienrat\" was not used as denominating a rank but solely as an honorary title of high reputation.\n\n"}
{"id": "12914063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12914063", "title": "One Woman Can", "text": "One Woman Can\n\nThe One Woman Can campaign was launched in 2007 by Americans for UNFPA to raise awareness among Americans that the U.S. is the only country that has ever withheld money from UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, for political reasons and to draw attention to the urgent need for Congress and the President to prioritize women’s health and rights. Since 2002, the Bush Administration has withheld $161 million from women everywhere. As a direct result, the Administration’s actions severely compromise the health and dignity of women everywhere.\n\nUNFPA provides women’s health care and promotes the rights of women worldwide. It is the largest international source of such assistance. As the official committee for UNFPA in the United States, Americans for UNFPA generates awareness of UNFPA’s work, fundraises for field programs and advocates for U.S. policies in support of UNFPA.\n\nThe One Woman Can campaign calls on Americans, especially women, to take action to ensure the health and dignity of women everywhere. The campaign features many actions, including writing to Congressmen urging them to support the Women’s Health and Dignity Act and signing the Release the Funds petition to President Bush.\n\nThe campaign launched on June 5, 2007 by urging Americans to ask their members of Congress to sign-on to the International Women’s Health and Dignity Act.\n\nChampioned by U.S. Congressman Joseph Crowley (D-NY), the International Women’s Health and Dignity Act will restore U.S. moral and political support for UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund’s efforts to combat some of the most intractable problems endured by women. The Act will show that U.S. leadership believes in the work of UNFPA.\n\n“Voters and constituents play a vital role in improving the health and dignity of women,” says Anika Rahman, President, Americans for UNFPA. “Wherever a woman lives, whatever her economic status, whether she is a giver or a receiver of help, she can take some action, large or small, on behalf of UNFPA and women everywhere.”\n\nThough the U.S. was instrumental in forming UNFPA, it has withheld funding to UNFPA since 2002. Each year Congress allocates roughly $40 million from the federal budget to fund UNFPA, but because of a loophole in the law, President Bush is able to block the funding from UNFPA. In the last 5 years, a total of $161 million was withheld from UNFPA, funding that could have prevented hundreds of thousands of maternal deaths and allowed millions of women to delay their first or next pregnancy. So far, the petition has collected over 2,400 signatures.\n\nThe One Woman Can Campaign utilizes the Internet as a major tool in helping Americans take action for its cause. The campaign created Facebook, MySpace, Digg, Flickr and Del.icio.us accounts, as well as established a relationship with RH Reality Check, an online community and publication serving individuals and organizations committed to advancing sexual and reproductive health and rights. Anika Rahman, the President of Americans for UNFPA, contributes a weekly blog post to the site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50449764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50449764", "title": "Panama as a tax haven", "text": "Panama as a tax haven\n\nThe Republic of Panama is one of the oldest and best-known tax havens in the Caribbean, as well as one of the most established in the region. Panama has had a reputation for tax avoidance since the early 20th century, and Panama has been cited repeatedly in recent years as a jurisdiction which does not cooperate with international tax transparency initiatives.\n\nPanama's offshore sector is intimately tied to the Panama canal, which has made it a gateway and \"entrepôt\" for international trade. There are strong similarities between Panama and other leading tax havens like Hong Kong, Singapore and Dubai. On paper at least, Panama has the largest shipping fleet in the world, greater than those of the US and China combined, according to the Tax Justice Network.\n\nA 2014 investigation by journalist Ken Silverstein published in \"Vice Magazine\" explains how Panama came into being, with US help:\nIn 1903, the administration of Theodore Roosevelt created the country after bullying Colombia to hand over what was then the province of Panama. Roosevelt acted at the behest of various banking groups, among them J. P. Morgan & Co., which was appointed as the country's official \"fiscal agent\".\n\nAn operation approved by the Roosevelt administration sought to foment armed rebellion, forcing Panama away from Colombia, then politically fragile. Roosevelt achieved this goal with the help of William Nelson Cromwell, a well-connected US Republican lawyer and also legal counsel for JP Morgan's railroad interests. The administration's key objective was allegedly to install a pro-US Panamanian government that would secure US rights over the Panama Canal. The Hay–Bunau-Varilla Treaty resulted, establishing permanent U.S. rights to a Panama Canal Zone several miles wide, across the neck of the isthmus. Panama became independent from Colombia the same month, and the Panama Canal opened in 1914.\n\nAccording to a 2013 academic study published by the Norwegian Center for Taxation, Panama's reputation as a tax haven began in the year 1919, when it began registering foreign ships in order to help Standard Oil avoid US taxes and regulations; other US ship owners followed, some seeking to avoid the higher wages and better working conditions imposed by US legislation such as the Seaman's Act and safety standards for sea vessels. Also, during the Prohibition era, US passenger ships were allowed to serve alcohol to their customers without breaking the law if they had Panamanian registration.\n\nWithin a few years, Panama extended its minimalist approach to taxation, regulation and financial disclosure requirements to the world of offshore finance. According to the study, \"Wall Street interests helped Panama introduce lax company incorporation laws, which let anyone start tax-free, anonymous corporations, with few questions asked\".\n\nFor decades, offshore finance had a relatively modest profile in Panama, but it took off in the 1970s as world oil prices surged. During this time, the Republic of Panama passed legislation \"entrenching corporate and individual financial secrecy\".\n\nBy 1982, partly attracted by business opportunities deriving from the Panama Canal and its free trade zone, more than 100 international banks had offices in Panama City.\n\nAccording to \"Investopedia\": \"Panama's offshore jurisdiction offers a wide array of excellent financial services, including offshore banking, the incorporation of offshore companies, registration of ships and the formation of Panama trusts and foundations.\" In Panama, no taxes are imposed on offshore companies which engage in business solely outside of the jurisdiction; therefore, the companies which are incorporated in the Republic of Panama and the owners of these companies are exempt from corporate taxes, withholding taxes, capital gains tax, local taxes, estate taxes and inheritance tax. However, businesses within Panama itself are permitted to conduct business there so long as the company pays its local taxes.\n\nPanama has been cited repeatedly in recent years by the State Department of the United States and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) as a jurisdiction which does not cooperate with international tax transparency initiatives due to the legislation which regulates the country's offshore jurisdiction and financial services. Panama has over 350,000 International Business Companies (IBCs) registered, the third largest number in the world after Hong Kong and the Virgin Islands. Alongside incorporation of IBCs, Panama is active in forming tax-evading foundations and trusts, insurance, and boat and shipping registration, according to the Tax Justice Network.\n\nAn extensive amount of legislation currently exists in the Republic of Panama to protect corporate and financial privacy. However, organisations such as the Tax Justice Network and other advocacy groups and non-governmental organisations state that the main intention of these laws is financial secrecy, as opposed to privacy.\n\nThe names of shareholders of Panamanian corporations, trusts and foundations are still not required by law to be publicly registered. Panama has no exchange controls: this means that for individual clients of Panama's offshore banking, as well as for offshore business entities incorporated in Panama, there are no limits or reporting requirements on money transfers into or out of the country.\n\nPanama also has very strict banking secrecy laws: for example, it is forbidden for Panamanian banks to share any information about offshore bank accounts or account holders, except under special circumstances instigated by the Panamanian authorities. Such regulation has made it difficult to investigate the true extent of the Panama Papers leak, as severe criminal penalties are enacted to individuals who breach confidentiality.\n\nDespite this, Panama does not appear on the Tax Justice Network's top ten list for financial secrecy, with Alex Cobham of Tax Justice Network saying \"There is a double standard: many developed countries host or support jurisdictions where there is an absence of financial transparency\".\n\nPascal Saint Amans, Director of the Centre for Tax Policy and Administration in the OECD said: \"From the standpoint of reputation, Panama is still the only place where people still believe they can hide their money.\" Writing for VICE News, Ken Silverstein explained the Mossack Fonseca history in the region: \"These laws attracted a long line of 'dirtbags' and dictators who used Panama to hide their stolen loot, including Ferdinand Marcos, 'Baby Doc' Duvalier, and Augusto Pinochet. When Manuel Noriega, commander of the Panama Defence Forces, took power in Panama in 1983, Silverstein said, Noriega essentially nationalised the money-laundering business; he partnered with the Medellin drug cartel and gave it free rein to operate in the country.\"\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Private Eye\" used data collected from the Land Registry to create \"an easily searchable online map ... of properties in England and Wales owned by offshore companies. It reveals for the first time the extent of the British property interests held by companies based in tax havens.\" Most of these properties are tax avoidance vehicles and in some cases also to conceal wealth of dubious origin.\"\n\nA 2003 examination of tax havens by Jeffrey Robinson quotes a US Customs official as saying:\n[Panama] is filled with dishonest lawyers, dishonest bankers, dishonest company formation agents and dishonest companies registered there by those dishonest lawyers so that they can deposit dirty money into their dishonest banks. The Free Trade Zone is the black hole through which Panama has become one of the filthiest money laundering sinks in the world.\n\nThe advocacy group the Tax Justice Network has described Panama as \"the recipient of drugs money from Latin America, plus ample other sources of dirty money from the US and elsewhere\". It said \"now is a good moment to draw attention to how Panama developed as a secrecy jurisdiction and how it continues to provide full service – wash, rinse and dry – to crooks and money launderers from around the world.\"\n\nRamón Fonseca Mora, the co-founder of Mossack Fonseca, told the \"New York Times\": \"I assure you there is more dirty money in New York, Miami and London than there is in Panama\". The United States is an alleged tax haven despite the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act. The US has refused the Common Reporting Standard set up by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. This means the US receives tax and asset information for American assets and income abroad, but does not share information about what happens in the United States with other countries; in other words, the US has become attractive as a tax haven.\n\n"}
{"id": "11582350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11582350", "title": "Patricia Craig (soprano)", "text": "Patricia Craig (soprano)\n\nPatricia Craig (\"née\" Duncklee; born July 21, 1947) is an American operatic soprano and voice teacher.\n\nBorn Patricia Duncklee in Long Island, New York, she studied music education at Ithaca College, graduating in 1965. Craig gained her first critical vocal acclaim as a winner of the Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions. Her performing career spans more than three decades of major roles in the leading opera houses of the world. She made her Metropolitan Opera debut in 1978 as Marenka in \"The Bartered Bride\", under James Levine, in John Dexter's production. Met audiences heard her for the next twelve seasons in a variety of leading roles in operas, including \"Madama Butterfly,\" \"Dialogues of the Carmelites,\" \"La Bohème,\" and \"Aufstieg und Fall der Stadt Mahagonny.\" Craig is a specialist in Puccini and Verdi heroines whose other operatic credits include performances with New York City Opera; Teatro la Fenice in Venice, Italy; the Festival of Two Worlds in both Spoleto, Italy, and Charleston, South Carolina; L’Opéra de Marseilles; and the companies of Cincinnati, Miami, Baltimore, and Washington, D.C. Concert performances include Tchaikovsky's \"The Queen of Spades\" with the Boston Symphony Orchestra under Seiji Ozawa.\n\nCraig joined the New England Conservatory faculty in 1990, where she taught until retiring from there in 2010, when she became a member of the voice faculty of the San Francisco Conservatory of Music. Several of her students have gained recognition in national competitions; others are singing with major opera companies in the United States and abroad. Craig has studied and collaborated with prominent artists including Donald Craig, Marenka Gurevitch, Magda Olivero, James de Blasis, Henry Lewis, Jeffrey Tate, Diane Richardson, Joan Dornemann, Martin Katz, Warren Jones, Anton Coppola, and Julius Rudel.\n\nIn addition to her private voice studio in San Francisco and teaching masterclasses she has taught at AIMS in Graz, Austria, and the Bay Area Summer Opera Theater Institute (BASOTI), where she collaborated for many years with her late husband, the Wagnerian tenor and voice teacher Richard Cassilly. Craig serves as Founding Chairman of the Board of Overseers for Opera Boston, and advisor to Boston Lyric Opera, and the Bel Canto Institute. She has been a competition adjudicator for organizations including the Metropolitan Opera, the Baltimore Opera, and the Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music.\n\n"}
{"id": "220540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220540", "title": "Privatdozent", "text": "Privatdozent\n\nPrivatdozent (for men) or Privatdozentin (for women), abbreviated PD, P.D. or Priv.-Doz., is an academic title similar to Adjunct professor in North America conferred at some European universities, especially in German-speaking countries, to someone who holds certain formal qualifications that denote an ability to teach (\"venia legendi\") a designated subject at university level. In its current usage, the title indicates that the holder has permission to teach and examine independently without having a chair. The title is not necessarily connected to a salaried position, but may entail a nominal obligation to teach.\n\nA university faculty can confer the title to an academic who has a higher doctoral degree - usually in the form of a habilitation. The title, \"Privatdozent\", as such does not imply a salaried appointment; it merely denotes permission to teach and examine independently at the conferring faculty without a professorial appointment. At German universities, some title holders are appointed as \"Dozent\" on a fee basis, or as senior researchers through externally funded research projects.\n\nMany title holders do not have remuneration agreements with their conferring institution, but depending on local regulations may be required to teach in order to maintain their status as a \"Privatdozent\". In 2012 more than 5000 honorarium \"Privatdozenten\" worked at German universities without a salary.\nA \"Privatdozent\" ceases to hold the title if appointed at professorial level or if discontinuing lecturing at the faculty. \n\nThe title has its origins in German-speaking countries in Europe before 1800. It referred to a lecturer who received fees from his students rather than a university salary.\n\nIn Prussia it started around 1810, and became established around 1860. From 1900 until 1968, most university professors who were appointed were title holders, as they obtained a habilitation and already held a teaching position.\n\nIn Germany, since the end of the 1960s the requirement of a post-doctoral degree for a professorship has been questioned and in some cases became not always necessary. Since 2002, junior professorships provide a route to a professorship without habilitation. This has led to a decline in universities conferring the title \"Privatdozent\" in certain academic disciplines.\n"}
{"id": "41613184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41613184", "title": "Queen Mother Pedagogical Institute", "text": "Queen Mother Pedagogical Institute\n\nThe Queen Mother Pedagogical Institute (), was a women's pedagogical high school, created in 1933 in Tirana, Albania.\n\nThe Institute, approved by Government Decree nr. 666, date 2 October 1933, opened its doors on 30 November 1933, with 388 students, of which 100 were resident in Tirana, and the other non residents. The institute was a merger of an American school in Kavajë, Christo Dako's school for misses “Qiriazi”, the Stigmatines women's school of Shkoder, and the Normal Women's School of Korçë. \n\nIt took the name from Queen Mother Sadijé Toptani, mother of King Zog.\n\nThe Institute is part of the movie Vajzat me kordele te kuqe, a 1978 production of the Kinostudjo Shqiperia e Re.\n\n"}
{"id": "2138419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2138419", "title": "Rapid serial visual presentation", "text": "Rapid serial visual presentation\n\n\"Rapid serial visual presentation\" is an experimental model frequently used to examine the temporal characteristics of attention. The RSVP paradigm requires participants to look at a continuous presentation of visual items which is around 10 items per second. They are all shown in the same place. The targets are placed inside this stream of continuous items. They are separate from the rest of the items known as distracters. The distracters can either be a color change or it can be letters that are among the numbers.\n\nThere is a delay of several hundred milliseconds. A person might be asked to identify numbers in a string of letters which are shown one by one. The first number which is an important target, would be caught by the person, however, the second number flashed seconds later might not be observed. RSVP asks the question, What would reading be like if there were no eye movements? A text is delivered at a spot on the screen, like a series of flash cards. The user can set how long each card is to be displayed. The readers are liberated from having to decide how much time to spend on each word because that is set in advance, and saccades, regressive eye movements, line sweeps, and page turning have been eliminated. A reader can fully concentrate on comprehending the text as it flashes through, however, with longer texts the reading experience is found to be monotonous and exhausting. There are a number of theories to explain how and why this works and studies have explored its limitations and parameters to learn more about visual perception. The brain deals with a quick stream of incoming information at all times. With the attentional blink, the brain has to distribute its attentional resources to comprehend, interpret, and store the information properly. The human brain is capable of processing complex tasks, but it has restrictions. The attentional blink is an illustration that has a significant insinuation for individuals who work in environments where they are usually swamped with information. An example of this is an airport baggage screener who might see a knife in one bag, but misses a second knife in another bag that is right behind the first bag. The failure to recognize the second target is because of the attentional processes that are linked with the identification of the first target.\n\nPotter (1976) explored the amount people who are able to comprehend and memorize information from fast series of stimuli. Potter had participants search for the RSVP series of pictures for a specific picture which was the target. This was depicted before the appearance of the RSVP series. Results showed that participants performed well on this task. Here, the RSVP rate was eight items per second; however, participants were still able to accurately find the target on 75% of the trials. Performance was not different in the pictures that were previously presented or described. Each picture was acknowledged within 125 milliseconds. However, Potter & Levy (1969) found that performance did change when participants were assessed on a recognition task for the pictures presented in the RSVP sequence. The results showed that the participants’ performance accurately scored 10% in the task when the RSVP rate was eight items per second.\n\nSperling and colleagues examined the RSVP paradigm to investigate the dynamics of shifts of spatial attention (e.g., Reeves & Sperling, 1986; Sperling & Weichselgartner, 1995). Spatial attention is defined as the ability to center on specific stimuli in a visual environment (Johnson & Proctor, 2004). Sperling used an attention shift procedure in which two RSVP series were presented altogether. There was a central point where one was to the left and the other was to the right of the focus point. One series contained letters and the other series contained numbers. The object of the task was for participants to focus on the letter stream and to report items from the number series following a certain letter. Results showed that participants frequently reported numbers that were heard around 400 milliseconds after the cue. They concluded that the findings were parallel with the time participants were required to shift attention from the series that had the letters to the series that had the numbers.\n\nWeichselgartner and Sperling (1987) examined if the same conclusions would be made if the participants had to report items from one RSVP series. Participants had to acknowledge and point out a certain letter and report other items that came after that letter. Results showed participants were more likely to report the items after the letter roughly around 400 milliseconds after the letter was presented. No spatial shift of attention was required. Participants only reported accurately the item following right after the cue but not any other item.\n\nBroadbent and Broadbent (1987) discovered the attentional blink when they used a rapid serial visual presentation task to look at the recognition of multiple target words. Results showed that following the presence of a target, attentional processing is restricted and people can’t report the items that came after the target, however the presence of the item that comes after the target usually misses attentional blindness. This concludes that when two targets are shown within 500 milliseconds of one another and they are separated by one or more distractors, the second target usually falls within an attentional blink and will not be seen.\n\nInattentional blindness as also been looked at as a variation of the rapid serial visual presentation. Rees, Russell, Frith, and Driver (1999) investigated participants’ brain activity as they looked at rapid displays of a letter string or of a word above a picture. Participants were asked to watch out for repeats in the letter string or in the pictures that were displayed. They found that the attended words in the task were related to semantic processing.\n\nThere are two common modes that are used to describe rapid serial visual presentation. One of the modes is the static mode. Here, the pictures come into view and then disappear without moving. The other mode, the moving mode is where pictures come into view serially, move about the display and then disappear.\n\nThe pictures in the rapid serial visual presentation have the same entry and exit locations. Pictures are shown one by one at the same rate. Here, participants must attend to a target that is shown for about 100 milliseconds. This is an advantage of this static mode. A disadvantage of the static mode is that there is no chance after that time to validate what was seen. The attentional blink which usually lasts between 300-400 milliseconds leads up to the other stimuli not being seen. The static mode can produce three different aspects when looking at an image: steady gaze, search to steady and visual search.\n\nWe are usually represented with presentations that rely a great deal on movement of pictures in a 2D plane. These are more difficult to register in comparison than pictures that move back and forth. The basic psychology of human visual perception explains that people are inclined to register imagery in a 3D world. This mode believes rapid serial visual presentation is important when approaching and processing objects. The moving mode can produce three different aspects when looking at an image: diagonal, stream and ring.\n\nThe unique method used by RSVP allows for the reading of unlimited text in a limited position. Researchers from Carnegie Mellon have found that as many as 12 words per second are readable in controlled situations (720wpm).\nFurther research has shown that for shorter pieces of text, RSVP formats increased reading speed by 33% with no significant differences in comprehension or task load.\n\nResearch done by the Wichita State University suggests that at 250 words per minute (WPM) comprehension was not significantly different from reading done using Palm Reader (EReader). Display at 650 WPM reduced comprehension by about 20% versus display at 250 WPM, from a score of 74.6 to 52.1, resulting in an effective 82% increase in words comprehended per minute, assuming the scoring is linear. Studies have shown that reading rate is determined by size of text and spacing. RSVP allows users to obtain a maximum reading rate through the ability to adjust text size and eliminate space by displaying one item at a time.\n\nSeveral limitations are presented in the rapid serial visual presentation. The RSVP can cause an unnecessary need for cognitive demand. The memory load for each individual differs and can be high, because using RSVP, more attention is needed. Also, RSVP allows us to miss vital information. RSVP also often results with repetition blindness during use. When presented with a sequence of visual stimuli in rapid succession at the same location, readers often fail to detect words prominently repeated in a series, thus potentially missing the main ideas of the text. Other disadvantages include attentional blink, in which the mind focuses longer on certain words which may strike an emotional chord and puts the reader behind in a sequence, as well as temporal masking, causing certain words when being read aloud in a series may evoke a striking sound or response that makes inaudible the mental articulation of the following word.\n\nUsing RSVP-based browsers offers a space–time trade-offs for information presentation on small screen devices such as cell phones and PDAs. However to make this solution functional location and context related questions like 'Where am I', 'Where can I usefully go', 'Where have I been' and 'How do I get back to X', need to be addressed.\n\nRSVP can aid those with poor eyesight with its one text at a time display that enlarges and highlights the words.\n\nPeripheral reading is vital to those suffering from central field loss, which is most commonly seen in the elderly. Factors which might limit one's peripheral reading rate include acuity, crowding, and eye movements. Many find difficulty making the correct eye movements for peripheral reading, but the dependence on eye movements can be minimized through the presentation format of RSVP.\n\nLimited existing previous research by Beech et al. suggests that images presented in RSVP have the potential to elicit a response from adolescent sexual offenders by measuring the effects of attentional blink. A stronger attentional blink is expected among adolescent sexual offenders after viewing a series of child related images. However, this hypothesis has not held up to subsequent research and remains an area of continued debate.\n\n"}
{"id": "24752447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24752447", "title": "Risinghill School", "text": "Risinghill School\n\nRisinghill School was an early comprehensive school opened in 1960 in Islington, under the headmastership of Michael Duane; a charismatic advocate of progressive and non-authoritarian education. The school's methods prompted criticism in the media and disputes with the London County Council. The school closed in 1965.\nThe school buildings in Risinghill Street, London N1, were subsequently utilised by Starcross School which was later renamed Elizabeth Garrett Anderson School.\n\nPupils received religious education through Saint Silas Church, which was part of Risinghill. Lessons included technical and craft skills, taught through dual or multi-purpose creative methods. \n\n3. http://www.leilaberg.com/her-books/books-for-grown-ups/risinghill-death-of-a-comprehensive/\n\n"}
{"id": "25450748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25450748", "title": "Roger Kaufman", "text": "Roger Kaufman\n\nRoger Kaufman, Ph.D. is an influential figure in the history of the educational technology (see also Instructional design) and performance improvement fields as well as strategic thinking and planning for public- and private-sector organizations. Regarded as one of the founding figures of the field, he is referred to as the father of needs assessment. While needs assessment is such common practice today that many new practitioners may not be able to envision a time when it was not part of the standard process, his work in this area established one of the foundational concepts that sets professional practice apart. The core tenets of his work are reflected in the professional standards for certifying performance technologists, such as the emphasis on system thinking and planning and sound evaluation of outcomes. Over his 40 years of work Kaufman developed what he considers to be his essential work - the Mega Planning model, a framework for adding measurable value to society. In 2014, the International Society for Performance Improvement created an honorary award named the Roger Kaufman Award for Societal Impact honoring the work of individuals or groups who apply this systemic performance assessment and planning process with clear impact on societal outcomes. Kaufman currently works with a variety of organizations around the globe implementing the Mega Planning model for strategic organizational planning, including educational institutions, government organizations, and corporations.\n\nKaufman was born and raised in Washington D.C. The son of a mathematical physicist/electrical engineer, Kaufman credits his father's influence for how he has approached his work. In a recent interview with Stephanie Moore, Kaufman explained how there are both two kinds of calculus - differential and integral. First we learn to differentiate, then we learn but don't always apply integration. This began to drive him to look for how everything integrates, \"how it all goes together,\" which led him to develop his Mega model and the Organizational Elements Model (OEM) that links three levels of results with two levels of resources and methods. Kaufman's bachelor's degree from George Washington University in Psychology, Sociology and Statistics. He completed a Master's at Johns Hopkins University in Psychology and Industrial Engineering. This foundation in both psychology and industrial engineering, along with his emphasis on statistics and social sciences, played a significant role the development his Mega planning model for measurable societal value added as a strategic planning model for organizations. Kaufman completed his doctorate in Communications at New York University. He previously spent time at University of California, Berkeley completing additional doctoral work in Industrial/Organizational Psychology.\n\nKaufman's professional work has been in multiple industries. Prior to his academic positions, he worked for aerospace organizations including Martin-Baltimore (now Lockheed), Boeing and Douglas Aircraft Company primarily focused on human factors, training, and research. In 1998, he established Roger Kaufman & Associates, a team of human performance professionals who consult with organizations on strategic planning and performance improvement. Upon completion of his doctorate, Kaufman taught at several universities, UC Irvine (adjunct professor), Chapman University (Professor of Education), United States International University (Professor of Psychology and Human Behavior), New Jersey Institute of Technology (Research Professor of Engineering Management), and University of Central Florida (Industrial engineer faculty Affiliate). From 1997-2004, Kaufman contributed at Old Dominion University as Research Professor of Engineering Management.\n\nConcurrently with most of this work, Kaufman was a professor at Florida State University (FSU), from 1975–2003, for the position he would eventually be awarded professor emeritus status in Educational Psychology and Learning Systems and awarded the Professorial Excellence Award. While at FSU, Kaufman established and directed the Center for Educational Development and Evaluation and also served as Director of the Office of Needs Assessment and Planning all with the Learning Systems Institute. During his time at FSU he worked on numerous initiatives for the state of Florida on needs assessment, evaluation, and societal planning, including work with the Florida Department of Education, Florida Department of Law Enforcement, Florida Division of Blind Services, Division of Adult & Community Education, the Governor's office,and the United States Navy (Chief of Naval Education & Training/Office of Naval Research) - to name just a few. In August, 2004, he became Distinguished Research Professor at Sonora Institute of Technology (ITSON) in Sonora, Mexico.\n\nKaufman has been the recipient of numerous professional awards including Fellow (American Psychology Association), Fellow (American Educational Research Association), Fellow of the American Educational Research Association, Distinguished Contribution to Workplace Learning and Performance (ASTD), and Meritorious Public Service Medal (US Coast Guard/Department of Homeland Security). He was co-founder of what is now the International Society for Performance Improvement (ISPI). He has received 14 awards from the association including Significant Contribution Award, and Honorary Member-for-Life (their highest honor). He has served as President of ISPI and founded the New York Chapter of the association. Kaufman has published over 275 articles and 41 books on strategic planning, change management, needs assessment, assessment, evaluation and organizational improvement.\n\nOne of the defining characteristics of Kaufman's work is his emphasis on \"need\" as a noun, not a verb; it is a gap in results and consequences, not a gap in resources or methods. Kaufman explains when \"need\" is used as a verb, it presupposes a solution before identifying the actual problem to be solved. When using 'need' as a verb, an intervention has been selected prior to a clear definition of the actual gap in results that would be addressed. Once a gap, or need, is accurately identified, only then can a means be sensibly selected for moving from current to desired results.\n\nKaufman expanded this approach to \"need\" from looking at gaps in products to gaps in outputs and then outcomes: from building block results to results delivered outside the organization to external client and societal results - what the organization used, does, produces, and delivers and the consequences all of that adds measurable value for our shared society. Used in this way, cost-consequences estimates may be made to prioritize closing gaps on the basis of the cost to meet the need as compared to the costs to ignore the need.\n\nKaufman identified three types, or levels, of needs: Mega, Macro, and Micro. And \"Change, Choices, and Consequences\" published by HRD Press. The following table details the levels of needs and their definitions.\n\nThese levels of needs are also levels of planning for any organization and indicate a relationship between the levels. Alignment of objectives at each level is critical to ensure that planning translates into clear organizational operations and ensure that activities at each level add value back up the chain linking measurable to societal value-added. As a consequence, no level of results is any more important than the others. Rather, it is the alignment of all levels that is critical to achieving desired results.\n\nExtensive examples of planning and aligned objectives can be found in Moore, 2010 and Moore, Ellsworth & Kaufman, 2008.\n\nKaufman has developed a model for strategic thinking and planning he calls \"Mega Planning.\" Kaufman argues that many organizational planning models incorrectly begin, and end, with internal or organizational performance and therefore fail to provide organizations a chance to plan how they deliver value outside of their organizations. Traditional planning ends with \"Macro\" level results, which are organizational results such as profits, graduation rates, ratings, etc. While these are important measures of organizational performance, they do not indicate the impact of an organization on external clients and society. Kaufman's model is similar to some of the concepts behind \"double bottom line\" literature.\n\n\"Mega Planning\" starts with the question of \"What kind of world do you want for your children and grand-children?\" with responses distilled in terms of consequences. An Ideal Vision defines the measurable variables for Mega planning including survival, self-sufficiency, and quality of life. He calls Mega planning (a system approach) \"Mother's Rule\" because if you ask just about any mother what kind of world they want for their children, they don't talk to means (credentials of teachers, money spent on social programs) but the survival, health, and happiness of their children.\n\nAt the Sonora Institute of Technology (ITSON) in Sonora, Mexico, Kaufman and colleagues have worked with the President of the Institute to create a certification, Master's degree, and Ph.D. based on needs assessment and Mega planning. Students at the Ph.D. level must be working in a company or head of a company and must apply the Mega principles in a real-world project. Evidence of ITSON's results were first described by Guerra and Rodriguez. ITSON also set up a Performance Improvement Institute for applied R&D where there are currently 20 organizations applying Mega thinking and planning.\n\nOther applications include with the US Coast Guard, Concientia (Argentina), Ohio Department of Administration and the Ohio public employees union, the Australian Department of Defense, the New Zealand Army, the Republic of Panama, Refinor de Argentina, among 100+ public and private organizations committed to adding value to all internal and external clients.\n"}
{"id": "39854758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39854758", "title": "Rose Lambert", "text": "Rose Lambert\n\nRose Lambert (September 8, 1878 – December 27, 1974) was an American missionary in the Ottoman Empire who was the Matron of the orphanage at the town of Hadjin during and after the 1909 massacres of Armenians in Cilicia. Her accounts of the Hadjin siege and Adana massacre provide an important insight into these events.\n\nRose Lambert was born on September 8, 1878, in Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, and was the daughter of George and Amanda Lambert. Her father was a minister in the Mennonite Brethren in Christ Church. She graduated from the Deaconess Hospital in Cleveland, Ohio, and then became a teacher in Indiana.\n\nOn November 12, 1898, Lambert went to Ottoman Turkey to work among the Armenian orphans of the Hamidian Massacres. She arrived in Hadjin on December 28 and by autumn of 1899 she had 175 orphans under her care. Eventually, two orphanages were opened, one for boys and another for girls. By 1905, the total number of orphans reached 305.\n\nIn June 1908, the Ittihad or Young Turks movement overthrew Sultan Abdul Hamid II and declared the return of constitutional rule, promising equality for all citizens of Turkey regardless of religion. The improved status of Armenians and other Christian groups under the new regime caused alarm among some provincial Turkish leaders, who feared the loss of their relatively privileged position in society. On 13 April 1909, a countercoup occurred and Hamid II was briefly returned to power, but although the countercoup collapsed after only a few days, turmoil continued throughout the country. Rumours that Armenians were planning an insurrection or that they were committing atrocities against Turks, spread through the countryside, and shortly after the launch of Hamid's coup, fighting broke out between Turkish and Armenian residents of Adana, which quickly turned into a massacre of Armenians in the town and surrounding villages. News of killings of Armenians soon reached the neighbouring town of Hadjin, where Lambert was still employed in her missionary work, through telegrams and via a trickle of refugees.\n\nWith the central government unable to restore order in the provinces for several weeks, Hadjin found itself under prolonged siege from armed Turkish villagers—many of them equipped with modern Martini rifles. Unlike Adana however—a city on a plain with a substantial Armenian minority—Hadjin, as an ethnically homogenous town of some 20,000 Armenians situated high in the mountains, was a much more defensible locality. Nonetheless, Hadjin was in a perilous position as its residents were poorly armed and isolated from help, and throughout the siege, they made frantic efforts via telegraph and messenger to enlist aid both from the central government and foreign embassies. Matters were further complicated by the fact that the defence of the town was apparently misinterpreted by some in the central government not as a defence but as a rebellion.\n\nDuring the siege, Lambert became an important source of news to the outside world, as her reports of the massacres and the plight of the Hadjin Armenians, telegraphed to the American consulate, were published in the \"New York Times\". For example, in one telegram published in the \"Times\" on April 23, 1909, Lambert wrote: \n\nA telegram was then sent from Lambert on April 26 and arrived to the United States on April 28. The telegram read in part:\nLambert later wrote a book entitled \"Hadjin and the Armenian Massacres\", where she gave a more detailed account of her experiences in Hadjin during the 1909 turmoil. Lambert states that, though fired upon day and night, Hadjin's defenders were instructed not to shoot directly at their attackers unless absolutely necessary, as it was anticipated that the more Turks killed during the defence, the harsher would be retribution from the authorities and the Armenians' Turkish neighbours in the aftermath. Lambert also relates how after many attempts to raise the alarm, a regiment of 300 soldiers was despatched from Fekka (Feke) to end the siege, but instead of dispersing the besiegers, the regiment apparently joined them. Finally, after several weeks, the British consul, who had been informed of the siege by telegraph, was able to organize a relief force of a Turkish regiment led by a reliable officer, which quickly dispersed the besiegers and restored order. It was at this point that news of the massacre of up to 30,000 Armenians in the neighbouring locality of Adana reached Hadjin. Lambert wrote: \n\nWith the siege ended, martial law was established and \"a number of the principal village Turks were called to give an account of their deeds.\" In their defence, these men testified that they had been driven to violence by false reports of Armenian atrocities and humiliations, and all, according to Lambert, were subsequently pardoned after being given \"a little advice\". In contrast with the lenient treatment extended to local Turkish offenders, 70 of the Armenian defenders of Hadjin, including the mayor and his son, city councillors, local defence leaders, and even those who supplied provisions to the defenders including the baker, were imprisoned in harsh conditions awaiting trial, some of them allegedly tortured to extract confessions. While most were released after a few months, several received ten-year jail sentences.\n\nLambert's book closes with a number of personal stories related to her by survivors of the massacres. Of particular interest to Lambert was the fate of a number of her associates, including \"our ministers, delegates, deacons, merchants and the head teacher in our girls' orphanage, numbering seventy-six in all.\" According to testimony supplied to Lambert, this group, after falling into the hands of a local Turkish leader, were initially promised protection in return for surrendering all their weapons and other possessions, but on doing so were brutally slaughtered by their captors.\n\nLambert concludes her book as follows:\n\nTo a friend, she wrote: \"I did my utmost for [the Armenians] and at the time felt it would be much easier to be with the martyrs than to live with the memories of the atrocities.\"\n\nLambert returned to the United States in 1910, and married Texas rancher David Musselman the following year, on October 4, 1911. They had five children, David, George, Paul, Rose and John. Rose Lambert Musselmann died in 1974 at the age of 96 and is buried at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Victoria County, Texas.\n\nIn H. Poghosyan's book, published in 1942, \"The General History of Hadjin\" (Հաճընի ընդհանուր պատմութիւնը եւ շրջակայ Գօզան-Տաղի հայ գիւղերը), Rose Lambert was described as a \"Saviour Angel for many during the self-defence of Hadjin\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6613302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6613302", "title": "Royal Society of London Michael Faraday Prize", "text": "Royal Society of London Michael Faraday Prize\n\nThe Royal Society of London Michael Faraday Prize is awarded for \"excellence in communicating science to UK audiences\". Named after Michael Faraday, the medal itself is made of silver gilt, and is accompanied by a purse of £2500. \n\nThe prize was first awarded in 1986 to Charles Taylor for \"his outstanding presentations of physics and applications of physics, aimed at audiences from six-year-old primary school children to adults\". It is awarded annually and unlike other Royal Society awards such as the Hughes Medal, it has been presented every year since its inception. The winner is required to present a lecture as part of the Society's annual programme of public events, which is usually held in January of the following year; during the lecture, the President of the Royal Society awards the medal. Unlike other prizes awarded by the society, the committee has not always publicly provided a rationale. This has occurred five times—in 2004 to Martin Rees, in 2006 to Richard Fortey, in 2007 to Jim Al-Khalili, in 2008 to John D. Barrow and most recently in 2009 to Marcus du Sautoy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3101066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3101066", "title": "Schools Sites Act 1841", "text": "Schools Sites Act 1841\n\nThe Schools Sites Act of 1841 (4 & 5 Vict. c. 38) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom (the long title of which is \"An Act to afford further Facilities for the Conveyance and Endowment of Sites for Schools\") which allowed land-owners to sell or donate a maximum of one acre of land to charities for the provision of schooling 'poor persons'. The act covered England and Wales and Scotland was also covered until the Education (Scotland) Act 1942 (although any donated land in Scotland under the act prior to this was not affected by the latter act).\n\nThe act was invoked 164 years later on 27 October 2005, in the case of Fraser & Fraser v. Canterbury Diocesan Board of Finance. It was found that the Church of England had sold land given under the act (mostly for residential developments) and had kept the proceeds, despite a provision in the act that required funds raised from selling the land to be given back the family of the original donator should the land cease to be used for educational purposes. The House of Lords then declared the money be given to the descendants of the original donator of the land as the act required. Fraser & Fraser appeared on the BBC One TV programme \"Heir Hunters\".\n"}
{"id": "2930225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2930225", "title": "Trinity term", "text": "Trinity term\n\nTrinity term is the third and final term of the academic year at the University of Oxford, the University of Dublin, Canterbury Christ Church University, and some independent schools in the United Kingdom. It runs from about mid-April to about the end of June and is named after Trinity Sunday, which falls eight weeks after Easter, in May or June.\n\nAt the University of Oxford, following the resolution made by Council on 8 May 2002, Trinity Term begins on and includes 20 April or the Wednesday after Easter, whichever is the later, and ends on and includes 6 July. In Trinity Term, as in Michaelmas Term and in Hilary Term, there is a period of eight weeks known as Full Term, beginning on a Sunday, within which lectures and other instruction prescribed by statute or regulation are given. The dates on which each Full Term will begin and end in the next academic year but one are published by the Registrar in the University Gazette during Hilary Term.\n\nAt the University of Sydney, it was the second and coldest of the three terms, running from the 24th to the 34th Mondays of the year (late May to early August) in the middle of winter, until Sydney changed over to the two semester system in 1989.\n\nThe term is also one of four into which the legal year is divided by the Courts of England and Wales, from 22 May to 12 June, during which the superior courts were formerly open. \"Trinity term\" is also used for the sitting of the High Court of Justice of England between 9 June and 31 July also known as \"Trinity sitting\".\n\nSchools in the United Kingdom and Ireland which use the name 'Trinity term' include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28243999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28243999", "title": "WACOM (WAter COmpetences Model)", "text": "WACOM (WAter COmpetences Model)\n\n\"WACOM\" was an international project undertaken through the European Union's Lifelong Learning Programme, specifically the Leonardo da Vinci programme. As such, the WACOM project primarily deals with initial and continuing vocational education and training (VET) in the European Union. \n\nThis model was established through the EQF in combination with the German Reference Model for Competence Modeling PAS 1093.\n\nDue to the shortage of the precious resource water and the consequences of the climate change, numerous European policies have been developed and adopted for the protection and sustainable utilisation of water, creating a huge demand in vocational training. Economic factors like privatisation and increasing cost pressure in water management are further increasing these educational needs, leading to the demand for VET opportunities and products that are as short and tailor‐made as possible.\nThe situation of vocational training in water management was addressed by the WACOM instrument, which attempted to define the needed competences and qualifications for the different tasks, working places and employees within the water sector. In this way, WACOM strove to lead to a supposed increase in the volume of mobility throughout Europe as well as to a higher transparency and recognition of qualifications and competences. The project aimed at creating general as well as particular modular VET opportunities and products in the water management concerning the addressed competences and qualifications. Through this, the VET opportunities and products were able to be related and mapped to those competences and qualifications for the management of sewage treatment plants. \n\nIn addition, the competence and qualification model offers the basis for the individual identification of missing competences and qualifications, i.e. of clearly limited VET needs. WACOM also supported the European comparability and recognition of vocational training through the combination with credit points (ECVET) and thus mobility. Next to numerous dissemination activities, WACOM looked in particular for input into the national VET systems and for launching a European Norm initiative as contribution to the European standardisation (CEN). Furthermore, the transfer into other sectors and all European countries was carried out through a focus on pilot‐testing, optimization, dissemination, exploitation and sustainable strategies.\n\nThe overall objective of WACOM was the development and transfer of a reference model for competence modelling into the water sector of the partner countries, enabling the identification of the VET needs by the employees and learners of required competences and qualifications at specific working places as well as of the improvement of transparency and comparability of VET opportunities and products.\n\n- To support participants in training and further training activities in the acquisition and the use of knowledge, skills and qualifications to facilitate personal development\n\n- To support improvements in quality and innovation in vocational education and training systems, institutions and practices\n\n- To enhance the attractiveness of vocational education and training and mobility for employers and individuals and to facilitate the mobility of working trainees\n\nThe development of the WACOM instrument was supported by the transfer of the competence and qualification model into the water sector and by the adaptation for the selected topic management of sewage treatment plants. WACOM influences vocational training in water management and in additional sectors.\n\nThe main WACOM products and affects were:\n\n1. \"Competence model for the water sector\"\n\nDevelopment of WACOM (the WAter COmpetences Model) as the establishment of a competence model for the water sector based on EQF and PAS 1093: the aim was the foundation of the vocational training on the principle of competence modelling based on the identification of the specific demands and needs of the water management and existing practice concerning competence models in the water sector. The experiences gained through the testing of this model aid the plans of other European research projects which also use competence models, such as the Agricom Project or the Compat.egov Project.\n\n2. \"WACOM instrument\"\n\nOptimization and adaptation of WACOM (the WAter COmpetences Model) to the vocational education and training systems and cultures in Europe. Finally the WACOM instrument was used for the description of the competences and qualifications and for the improvement of their transparency and comparability.\n\nTwo conferences were carried out in order to open the results of the WACOM project for discussion to a larger audience, the 4th European Conference \"Innovations in the Environmental Sector\" (INES) and the European Conference \"Competence Modelling for the Water Sector\", both of which took place in Brussels, Belgium on 21 September 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44865622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44865622", "title": "Walden's Path", "text": "Walden's Path\n\nWalden's Path School is one of the several Jiddu Krishnamurti Schools located at Jubilee Hills in Hyderabad, India. It follows Cambridge IGCSE syllabi. The School is inspired by Jiddu Krishnamurti's Educational Philosophy. Walden's Path Kinder enrolls students up to six years of age and The Magnet School enrolls students for grades 1 to 12. \n\nThe school is inspired by Jiddu Krishnamurti's philosophy and his life work. Walden’s Path is based on the notion that children need to be able to get to information following their own path, construct and create their own knowledge and paths.\n\nThe Magnet School follows The Studio Approach with Science, Mathematics, Language and Literature. The Magnet School is admitting students in grades 1-4 for the 2016 academic year. The Magnet School developed an approach and methodology that enables children to discover multiple ways of solving problems in Mathematics and applying concepts in Science.\n\nThe Experiential Studio serves grades 1 - IV while The Scholar’s Studio serves grades V - XII.\n\nWalden's Path | The Magnet School follows Studio-Based Learning and is inspired by John Dewey’s work and education philosophy. Unlike a lab that uses standardized procedures with set equipment to reproduce a protocol in order to obtain set outcomes, a Studio is a space that invigorates, inspires and provides an opportunity to create, construct and test objectives and hypotheses and analyse data.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "101362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101362", "title": "World Conference against Racism", "text": "World Conference against Racism\n\nThe World Conference Against Racism (WCAR) is a series of international events organized by UNESCO to promote struggle against racism ideologies and behaviours. Four conferences have been held so far, in 1978, 1983, 2001, and 2009. Founded after World War II and the Holocaust as a dependent body of the United Nations, UNESCO started as soon as it was created to promote scientific studies concerning ethnic groups and their diffusion in public opinion to dispel pseudo-scientific rationalizations of racism. One of its first published works was \"The Race Question\" in 1950, signed by various internationally renowned scholars.\n\nThe 1978 World Conference Against Racism was held in Geneva, Switzerland. A major focus on the conference was South Africa's apartheid policies of racial segregation and discrimination.\n\nThe 1983 World Conference Against Racism was also held in Geneva, Switzerland\n\nThe 2001 conference was held in Durban, South Africa, under UN auspices, from 31 August until 8 September 2001. Former Irish president Mary Robinson, then the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, presided as Secretary-General. \n\nEntitled \"World Conference Against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance,\" the conference was discussing unfair treatment of one group against another. Significant time was focused specifically on Israeli treatment of Palestinians, treating violations of human rights and genocide in other parts of the world secondarily.\n\nThe 2001 meeting was marked by clashes over the Middle East and the legacy of slavery, and coincided with attacks on Israel and anti-Israel demonstrations at a parallel conference of non-governmental organizations. Canada, followed by the U.S. and Israel walked out midway through the 2001 conference over a draft resolution that, in their opinion, singled out Israel for criticism and likened Zionism to racism. The European Union also refused to accept demands by Arab states to criticize Israel for \"racist practices.\" \n\nAlso in the conference, African countries, led by Nigeria and Zimbabwe, and African-American NGOs wanted individual apologies from each of the countries responsible for slavery, recognition of it as a crime against humanity, and reparations called as such. The Europeans pulled together behind the UK and the best the Africans could get was a call for support for the New African Initiative, debt relief, funds to combat AIDS, the recovery of stolen government funds transferred to the West by former dictators and their cohorts, and an end to the trafficking in people. But the word 'reparations' did not survive.\nThe 2009 World Conference Against Racism was held in Geneva, Switzerland. Canada, Israel, the United States of America, New Zealand, Germany, Italy, Sweden, the Netherlands, Poland and, after some initial skepticism, Australia announced they would not participate in the conference.\n\nMark Mardell of the BBC news reported: On the Monday the Conference was to begin, Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini (who was until last year the European Commissioner for security and justice) had told the Italian newspaper \"Il Giornale\" that Europe's failure to agree on a common approach was \"a very serious mistake, because it shows our inability, despite all the words uttered in this connection, to come up with at least a lowest common denominator on a basic problem: namely the struggle against discrimination, on behalf of which we in Brussels so often speak out\".\n\nFrattini continued, \"I should imagine that a compromise was preferred at any price. And this, despite the fact that in the documents prepared for the rendezvous in Geneva, apart from a few minor improvements, a basic approach has been maintained equating Israel with a racist country rather than a democracy. There are still unacceptable phrases which, if there had been a smidgen of consistency with what was said at the EU ministers' meeting, should have convinced people to forgo attending the conference – as we have decided to do, and as the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and The Netherlands have decided to do.\" (Mark Mardell, BBC News)\n\nNew Zealand's Foreign Minister Murray McCully said he was not satisfied that the wording of the review would prevent the conference from \"descending into the same kind of rancorous and unproductive debate that took place in 2001,\" and he reported that he was concerned that it could be used by Muslim countries to criticize Israel and to limit free speech when it comes to criticizing their religion. (reported by the Associated Press on 20 April)\n\nOn the opening day of the conference, France said that Europeans would walk out if Ahmadinejad made any anti-Semitic remarks. \"We will have to be very clear. We will not tolerate any slips,\" French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner told France Info. \"If he utters racist or anti-Semitic accusations, we will leave the room immediately.\"\n\nGermany had decided to stay away from the meeting amid western concerns that the event may take on anti-Semitic overtones, a senior official confirmed in Berlin Thursday.\n\nIn his opening address, Secretary-General of UN Ban Ki-Moon said, \"Some nations who by rights should be helping us to forge a path to a better future are not here. Outside these halls, interest groups of many political and ideological stripes shout against one another in acrimony.\"\n\nLater in the day, about 40 delegates walked out during Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's speech after he described Israel as a \"racist government\" and attacked the creation of the state of Israel. France, which had warned of a walkout, described it as \"hate speech\", the BBC reported.\n\nThe walkout was a public relations disaster for the United Nations, which had hoped the conference would be a shining example of what the UN is supposed to do best: uniting to combat injustice in the world, said the BBC's Imogen Foulkes in Geneva. Her colleague Jeremy Paxman described the walkout as a \"stunt\", arguing that people should have the right to criticise Zionism.\n\nPresident Ahmadinejad, the only major leader to attend the conference, said Jewish migrants from Europe and the United States had been sent to the Middle East after World War II \"in order to establish a racist government in the occupied Palestine\". He continued, through an interpreter: \"And in fact, in compensation for the dire consequences of racism in Europe, they helped bring to power the most cruel and repressive racist regime in Palestine.\" French Ambassador Jean-Baptiste Mattei said: \"As soon as he started to address the question of the Jewish people and Israel, we had no reason to stay in the room.\" \n\nBritish ambassador Peter Gooderham, also among those who left, said Mr Ahmadinejad's comments were \"offensive and inflammatory\". \"Such outrageous anti-Semitic remarks should have no place in a UN anti-racism forum\", he announced to gathered reporters. (BBC News)\n\nA webcast of Ahmadinejad's speech was made available by the United Nations, and the Foreign Policy Journal, an online news publisher, rushed out a transcript.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26151562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26151562", "title": "Yoryi Morel", "text": "Yoryi Morel\n\nYoryi Morel (born Jorge Octavio Morel Tavárez; 25 October 1906,–1979) was a painter from the Dominican Republic. Along with Jaime Colson and Darío Suro, he is considered one of the founders of the modernist school of Dominican painting.\n\nMorel was born in Santiago de los Caballeros, the son of Enrique Morel Bocanegra and Ana Teresa Tavárez Cabreja. He spent most of his career in Santiago Province. \n\nAlthough he began his art studies at the age of 11 at Bellas Artes with his mentor and also his teacher Juan Bautista Gómez, he is generally considered to be self-taught. Morel for many years was devoted to teaching in Dominican Republic . His teachings influenced several generations of Dominicans artist such as Ney Cruz, he was leading Dominican \"costumbrista\" painter and is known for his landscapes, genre paintings, and portraits.\n\nMorel held his first solo exhibition in Santo Domingo in 1932. In 1940, he founded the \"Yoryi\" Academy, a fine-arts school in Santiago de los Caballeros , which was attended by Clara Ledesma. He participated in the Dominican Republic's first biennial art exhibition in 1942, and won first prize in the sixth biennial in 1952. \n\nHe was declared the \"Pintor Nacional\" (national painter) by the Dominican Congress on October 25, 2006.\n\nMorel was also appointed Deputy Director of the National School of Fine Art in 1948 and was honored by the Dominican government in 1973 with the “Order of Merit of Duarte, Sánchez and Mella” and the rank of \"Caballero.\"\n\nTwo retrospectives were held to mark the 100th anniversary of his birth: \"Por los Caminos de Nuestra Expresión\" at the Museo Bellapart in Santo Domingo in 2006 and \"Autonomía y Trascendencia\" at Centro León in Santiago de los Caballeros in 2007.\n\nHe married Hungarian Ilonka Szabó, daughter of Károly Szabó and Szanet Czeglédy, with whom he had three children: Jorge Enrique Morel Szabó (1946), Janos Laszlo Morel Szabó (1949), and Ilonka Morel Szabó (1954). He also had two daughters from a previous relationship with Rosa Flete: Yolanda Antonia Morel Flete (1943) and Filomena Morel Flete.\n\n\n\n"}
