{"id": "26124851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26124851", "title": "Abdul Jalil I of Johor", "text": "Abdul Jalil I of Johor\n\nSultan Abdul Jalil I (1562–1571) was the Sultan of Johor from 1570 to 1571. He was succeeded as sultan by his father Ali Jalla Abdul Jalil Shah II.\n\nAbdul Jalil I was the nephew of his predecessor Muzaffar II of Johor. He died after ruling only one year, according to some due to poisoning.\n"}
{"id": "8892989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8892989", "title": "Abu Buraidah al-Aslami", "text": "Abu Buraidah al-Aslami\n\nAbu Buraidah al-Aslami was a Sahaba of Muhammad and a narrator of hadith.\n\nHe was one of the Muhajirun and was not among those who supported Abu Bakr after the meeting at the Saqifah.\n"}
{"id": "17291276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17291276", "title": "Agatha of Lorraine", "text": "Agatha of Lorraine\n\nAgatha of Lorraine (c. 1120- April 1147) was the wife of Renaud III, Count of Burgundy. She was the daughter of Simon I, Duke of Lorraine and his wife Adelaide of Leuven.\n\nAgatha's children with her husband included:\nShe fell sick in March 1147 and died two weeks later. \n"}
{"id": "943987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=943987", "title": "Andre Noble", "text": "Andre Noble\n\nAndre Clarence Noble (February 21, 1979 – July 30, 2004) was a Canadian television and film actor. He was born in Centreville, Newfoundland and studied acting at Sir Wilfred Grenfell College in Corner Brook from 1997 to 2001. He moved to Toronto, Ontario in 2001 to pursue his career in acting. In his short time living there he appeared in several films, television roles and stage productions, and co-founded a theatre group called The Young Company.\n\nHe was considered a rising star on the strength of his first starring role, in the Canadian romantic drama \"Sugar\", based on short stories by Bruce La Bruce and directed by John Palmer. However, just weeks after the film's debut, Noble died of aconitine poisoning after eating some monkshood while on a hike with his aunt on Fair Island in Newfoundland. He fell ill at his aunt's cabin on Fair Island, then died en route to hospital. In his memory, Noble's friends and family set up a scholarship fund in his name for the Theatre Department at the Sir Wilfred Grenfell College School of Fine Arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "65953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65953", "title": "Antigone (Sophocles play)", "text": "Antigone (Sophocles play)\n\nAntigone ( ; ) is a tragedy by Sophocles written in or before 441 BC.\n\nOf the three Theban plays \"Antigone\" is the third in order of the events depicted in the plays, but it is the first that was written. The play expands on the Theban legend that predates it, and it picks up where Aeschylus' \"Seven Against Thebes\" ends.\n\nPrior to the beginning of the play, brothers Eteocles and Polyneices, leading opposite sides in Thebes' civil war, died fighting each other for the throne. Creon, the new ruler of Thebes and brother of the former Queen Jocasta, has decided that Eteocles will be honored and Polyneices will be in public shame. The rebel brother's body will not be sanctified by holy rites and will lie unburied on the battlefield, prey for carrion animals like worms and vultures, the harshest punishment at the time. Antigone and Ismene are the sisters of the dead Polyneices and Eteocles. In the opening of the play, Antigone brings Ismene outside the palace gates late at night for a secret meeting: Antigone wants to bury Polyneices' body, in defiance of Creon's edict. Ismene refuses to help her, not believing that it will actually be possible to bury their brother, who is under guard, but she is unable to stop Antigone from going to bury her brother herself.\nCreon enters, along with the chorus of Theban elders. He seeks their support in the days to come and in particular, wants them to back his edict regarding the disposal of Polyneices' body. The leader of the chorus pledges his support out of deference to Creon. A sentry enters, fearfully reporting that the body has been given funeral rites and a symbolic burial with a thin covering of earth, though no one who actually committed the crime saw this. Creon, furious, orders the sentry to find the culprit or face death himself. The sentry leaves, and the chorus sings about honouring the gods, but after a short absence, he returns, bringing Antigone with him. The sentry explains that the watchmen uncovered Polyneices' body and then caught Antigone as she did the funeral rituals. Creon questions her after sending the sentry away, and she does not deny what she has done. She argues unflinchingly with Creon about the immorality of the edict and the morality of her actions. Creon becomes furious, and seeing Ismene upset, thinks she must have known of Antigone's plan. He summons her. Ismene tries to confess falsely to the crime, wishing to die alongside her sister, but Antigone will not have it. Creon orders that the two women be temporarily imprisoned.\n\nHaemon, Creon's son, enters to pledge allegiance to his father, even though he is engaged to Antigone. He initially seems willing to forsake Antigone, but when Haemon gently tries to persuade his father to spare Antigone, claiming that \"under cover of darkness the city mourns for the girl\", the discussion deteriorates, and the two men are soon bitterly insulting each other. When Creon threatens to execute Antigone in front of his son, Haemon leaves, vowing never to see Creon again.\n\nCreon decides to spare Ismene and to bury Antigone alive in a cave. By not killing her directly, he hopes to pay the minimal respects to the gods. She is brought out of the house, and this time, she is sorrowful instead of defiant. She expresses her regrets at not having married and dying for following the laws of the gods. She is taken away to her living tomb, with the Leader of the Chorus expressing great sorrow for what is going to happen to her.\n\nTiresias, the blind prophet, enters. Tiresias warns Creon that Polyneices should now be urgently buried because the gods are displeased, refusing to accept any sacrifices or prayers from Thebes. Creon accuses Tiresias of being corrupt. Tiresias responds that because of Creon's mistakes, he will lose \"a son of [his] own loins\" for the crimes of leaving Polyneices unburied and putting Antigone into the earth (he does not say that Antigone should not be condemned to death, only that it is improper to keep a living body underneath the earth). All of Greece will despise Creon, and the sacrificial offerings of Thebes will not be accepted by the gods. The leader of the chorus, terrified, asks Creon to take Tiresias' advice to free Antigone and bury Polyneices. Creon assents, leaving with a retinue of men. The chorus delivers a choral ode to the god Dionysus (god of wine and of the theater; this part is the offering to their patron god). A messenger enters to tell the leader of the chorus that Antigone has killed herself. Eurydice, Creon's wife and Haemon's mother, enters and asks the messenger to tell her everything. The messenger reports that Creon saw to the burial of Polyneices. When Creon arrived at Antigone's cave, he found Haemon lamenting over Antigone, who had hanged herself. After unsuccessfully attempting to stab Creon, Haemon stabbed himself. Having listened to the messenger's account, Eurydice disappears into the palace.\n\nCreon enters, carrying Haemon's body. He understands that his own actions have caused these events and blames himself. A second messenger arrives to tell Creon and the chorus that Eurydice has killed herself. With her last breath, she cursed her husband. Creon blames himself for everything that has happened, and, a broken man, he asks his servants to help him inside. The order he valued so much has been protected, and he is still the king, but he has acted against the gods and lost his children and his wife as a result. After Creon condemns himself, the leader of the chorus closes by saying that although the gods punish the proud, punishment brings wisdom.\n\n\n\"Antigone\" was written at a time of national fervor. In 441 BC, shortly after the play was performed, Sophocles was appointed as one of the ten generals to lead a military expedition against Samos. It is striking that a prominent play in a time of such imperialism contains little political propaganda, no impassioned apostrophe, and, with the exception of the epiklerate (the right of the daughter to continue her dead father's lineage), and arguments against anarchy, makes no contemporary allusion or passing reference to Athens. Rather than become sidetracked with the issues of the time, \"Antigone\" remains focused on the characters and themes within the play. It does, however, expose the dangers of the absolute ruler, or tyrant, in the person of Creon, a king to whom few will speak freely and openly their true opinions, and who therefore makes the grievous error of condemning Antigone, an act which he pitifully regrets in the play's final lines. Athenians, proud of their democratic tradition, would have identified his error in the many lines of dialogue which emphasize that the people of Thebes believe he is wrong, but have no voice to tell him so. Athenians would identify the folly of tyranny.\n\nThe Chorus in \"Antigone\" departs significantly from the chorus in Aeschylus' \"Seven Against Thebes\", the play of which \"Antigone\" is a continuation. The chorus in \"Seven Against Thebes\" is largely supportive of Antigone's decision to bury her brother. Here, the chorus is composed of old men who are largely unwilling to see civil disobedience in a positive light. The chorus also represents a typical difference in Sophocles' plays from those of both Aeschylus and Euripides. A chorus of Aeschylus' almost always continues or intensifies the moral nature of the play, while one of Euripides' frequently strays far from the main moral theme. The chorus in \"Antigone\" lies somewhere in between; it remains within the general moral and the immediate scene, but allows itself to be carried away from the occasion or the initial reason for speaking.\n\nIn this play Sophocles raises a number of questions: Should Polyneices, who committed a serious crime that threatened the city, be given burial rituals, or should his body be left unburied as prey for scavenging animals? Should someone who attempts to bury him in defiance of Creon be punished in an especially cruel and horrible way? Are Creon’s actions justified? Are Antigone’s actions justified? In this play, Creon is not presented as a monster, but as a leader who is doing what he considers right and justified by the state. The chorus is presented as a group of citizens who, though they may feel uneasy about the treatment of the corpse, respect Creon and what he is doing. The chorus is sympathetic to Antigone only when she is led off to her death. But when the chorus learns that the Gods are offended by what Creon has done, and that Creon’s actions will result in the destruction of their city, then they ask Creon to change course. The city is of primary importance to the chorus. Once the initial premises behind the characters in \"Antigone\" have been established, the action of the play moves steadily and inevitably towards the outcome. Once Creon has discovered that Antigone buried her brother against his orders, the ensuing discussion of her fate is devoid of arguments for mercy because of youth or sisterly love from the Chorus, Haemon or Antigone herself. Most of the arguments to save her center on a debate over which course adheres best to strict justice.\n\nBoth Antigone and Creon claim divine sanction for their actions; but Tiresias the prophet supports Antigone's claim that the gods demand Polyneices' burial. It is not until the interview with Tiresias that Creon transgresses and is guilty of sin. He had no divine intimation that his edict would be displeasing to the Gods and against their will. He is here warned that it is, but he defends it and insults the prophet of the Gods. This is his sin, and it is this which leads to his punishment. The terrible calamities that overtake Creon are not the result of his exalting the law of the state over the unwritten and divine law which Antigone vindicates, but are his intemperance which led him to disregard the warnings of Tiresias until it was too late. This is emphasized by the Chorus in the lines that conclude the play.\n\nThe German poet Friedrich Hölderlin, whose translation had a strong impact on the philosopher Martin Heidegger, brings out a more subtle reading of the play: he focuses on Antigone's legal and political status within the palace, her privilege to be the hearth (according to the legal instrument of the epiklerate) and thus protected by Zeus. According to the legal practice of classical Athens, Creon is obliged to marry his closest relative (Haemon) to the late king's daughter in an inverted marriage rite, which would oblige Haemon to produce a son and heir for his dead father in law. Creon would be deprived of grandchildren and heirs to his lineage – a fact which provides a strong realistic motive for his hatred against Antigone. This modern perspective has remained submerged for a long time.\n\nMartin Heidegger, in his essay, \"The Ode on Man in Sophocles’ Antigone\", focusses on the chorus’ sequence of stophe and antistrophe that begins on line 278. His interpretation is in three phases: first to consider the essential meaning of the verse, and then to move through the sequence with that understanding, and finally to discern what was nature of humankind that Sophocles was expressing in this poem. In the first two lines of the first strophe, in the translation Heidegger used, the chorus says that there are many strange things on earth, but there is nothing stranger than man. Beginnings are important to Heidegger, and he considered those two lines to describe primary trait of the essence of humanity within which all other aspects must find their essence. Those two lines are so fundamental that the rest of the verse is spent catching up with them. The authentic Greek definition of humankind is the one who is strangest of all. Heidegger’s interpretation of the text describes humankind in one word that captures the extremes — \"deinotaton\". Man is \"deinon\" in the sense that he is the terrible, violent one, and also in the sense that he uses violence against the overpowering. Man is twice \"deinon\". In a series of lectures in 1942, \"Hölderlin’s Hymn, The Ister\", Heidegger goes further in interpreting this play, and considers that Antigone takes on the destiny she has been given, but does not follow a path that is opposed to that of the humankind described in the choral ode. When Antigone opposes Creon, her suffering the uncanny, is her supreme action.\n\nAn important issue still debated regarding Sophocles' \"Antigone\" is the problem of the second burial. When she poured dust over her brother's body, Antigone completed the burial rituals and thus fulfilled her duty to him. Having been properly buried, Polyneices' soul could proceed to the underworld whether or not the dust was removed from his body. However, Antigone went back after his body was uncovered and performed the ritual again, an act that seems to be completely unmotivated by anything other than a plot necessity so that she could be caught in the act of disobedience, leaving no doubt of her guilt. More than one commentator has suggested that it was the gods, not Antigone, who performed the first burial, citing both the guard's description of the scene and the chorus's observation.\n\nRichard Jebb suggests that the only reason for Antigone's return to the burial site is that the first time she forgot the Choaí (libations), and \"perhaps the rite was considered completed only if the Choaí were poured while the dust still covered the corpse.\"\n\nGilbert Norwood explains Antigone's performance of the second burial in terms of her stubbornness. His argument says that had Antigone not been so obsessed with the idea of keeping her brother covered, none of the deaths of the play would have happened. This argument states that if nothing had happened, nothing would have happened, and doesn't take much of a stand in explaining why Antigone returned for the second burial when the first would have fulfilled her religious obligation, regardless of how stubborn she was. This leaves that she acted only in passionate defiance of Creon and respect to her brother's earthly vessel.\n\nTycho von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff justifies the need for the second burial by comparing Sophocles' \"Antigone\" to a theoretical version where Antigone is apprehended during the first burial. In this situation, news of the illegal burial and Antigone's arrest would arrive at the same time and there would be no period of time in which Antigone's defiance and victory could be appreciated.\n\nJ. L. Rose maintains that the solution to the problem of the second burial is solved by close examination of Antigone as a tragic character. Being a tragic character, she is completely obsessed by one idea, and for her this is giving her brother his due respect in death and demonstrating her love for him and for what is right. When she sees her brother's body uncovered, therefore, she is overcome by emotion and acts impulsively to cover him again, with no regards to the necessity of the action or its consequences for her safety.\n\nBonnie Honig uses the problem of the second burial as the basis for her claim that Ismene performs the first burial, and that her pseudo-confession before Creon is actually an honest admission of guilt.\n\nA well established theme in Antigone is the right of the individual to reject society's infringement on her freedom to perform a personal obligation. Antigone comments to Ismene, regarding Creon's edict, that \"He has no right to keep me from my own.\" Related to this theme is the question of whether Antigone's will to bury her brother is based on rational thought or instinct, a debate whose contributors include Goethe.\n\nThe contrasting views of Creon and Antigone with regard to laws higher than those of state inform their different conclusions about civil disobedience. Creon demands obedience to the law above all else, right or wrong. He says that \"there is nothing worse than disobedience to authority\" (\"An.\" 671). Antigone responds with the idea that state law is not absolute, and that it can be broken in civil disobedience in extreme cases, such as honoring the gods, whose rule and authority outweigh Creon's.\n\nIn \"Antigone\", Sophocles asks the question, which law is greater: the gods' or man's. Sophocles votes for the law of the gods. He does this in order to save Athens from the moral destruction which seems imminent. Sophocles wants to warn his countrymen about hubris, or arrogance, because he believes this will be their downfall. In Antigone, the hubris of Creon is revealed.\n\nCreon's decree to leave Polyneices unburied in itself makes a bold statement about what it means to be a citizen, and what constitutes abdication of citizenship. It was the firmly kept custom of the Greeks that each city was responsible for the burial of its citizens. Herodotus discussed how members of each city would collect their own dead after a large battle to bury them. In \"Antigone\", it is therefore natural that the people of Thebes did not bury the Argives, but very striking that Creon prohibited the burial of Polyneices. Since he is a citizen of Thebes, it would have been natural for the Thebans to bury him. Creon is telling his people that Polyneices has distanced himself from them, and that they are prohibited from treating him as a fellow-citizen and burying him as is the custom for citizens.\n\nIn prohibiting the people of Thebes from burying Polyneices, Creon is essentially placing him on the level of the other attackers—the foreign Argives. For Creon, the fact that Polyneices has attacked the city effectively revokes his citizenship and makes him a foreigner. As defined by this decree, citizenship is based on loyalty. It is revoked when Polyneices commits what in Creon's eyes amounts to treason. When pitted against Antigone's view, this understanding of citizenship creates a new axis of conflict. Antigone does not deny that Polyneices has betrayed the state, she simply acts as if this betrayal does not rob him of the connection that he would have otherwise had with the city. Creon, on the other hand, believes that citizenship is a contract; it is not absolute or inalienable, and can be lost in certain circumstances. These two opposing views – that citizenship is absolute and undeniable and alternatively that citizenship is based on certain behavior – are known respectively as citizenship 'by nature' and citizenship 'by law.'\n\nAntigone's determination to bury Polyneices arises from a desire to bring honor to her family, and to honor the higher law of the gods. She repeatedly declares that she must act to please \"those that are dead\" (\"An.\" 77), because they hold more weight than any ruler, that is the weight of divine law. In the opening scene, she makes an emotional appeal to her sister Ismene saying that they must protect their brother out of sisterly love, even if he did betray their state. Antigone believes that there are rights that are inalienable because they come from the highest authority, or authority itself, that is the divine law.\n\nWhile he rejects Antigone's actions based on family honor, Creon appears to value family himself. When talking to Haemon, Creon demands of him not only obedience as a citizen, but also as a son. Creon says \"everything else shall be second to your father's decision\" (\"An.\" 640–641). His emphasis on being Haemon's father rather than his king may seem odd, especially in light of the fact that Creon elsewhere advocates obedience to the state above all else. It is not clear how he would personally handle these two values in conflict, but it is a moot point in the play, for, as absolute ruler of Thebes, Creon is the state, and the state is Creon. It is clear how he feels about these two values in conflict when encountered in another person, Antigone: loyalty to the state comes before family fealty, and he sentences her to death.\n\nIn \"Antigone\" as well as the other Theban Plays, there are very few references to the gods. Hades is the god who is most commonly referred to, but he is referred to more as a personification of Death. Zeus is referenced a total of 13 times by name in the entire play, and Apollo is referenced only as a personification of prophecy. This lack of mention portrays the tragic events that occur as the result of human error, and not divine intervention. The gods are portrayed as chthonic, as near the beginning there is a reference to \"Justice who dwells with the gods beneath the earth.\" Sophocles references Olympus twice in \"Antigone.\" This contrasts with the other Athenian tragedians, who reference Olympus often.\n\nAntigone's love for family is shown when she buries her brother, Polyneices. Haemon was deeply in love with his cousin and fiancée Antigone, and he killed himself in grief when he found out that his beloved Antigone had hanged herself.\n\n\nIn 2017 Kamila Shamsie published Home Fire, which transposés some of the moral and political questions in Antigone into the context of Islam, ISIS and modern-day Britain.\n\nYorgos Tzavellas adapted the play into a 1961 film which he also directed. It featured Irene Papas as Antigone.\n\nLiliana Cavani's 1970 \"I Cannibali\" is a contemporary political fantasy based upon the Sophocles play, with Britt Ekland as Antigone and Pierre Clémenti as Tiresias.\n\nThe 1978 omnibus film Germany in Autumn features a segment by Heinrich Böll entitled “The Deferred Antigone” where a fictional production of Antigone is presented to television executives who reject it as ”too topical”.\n\nA 2011 Hungarian film version starred Kamilla Fátyol as Antigone, Zoltán Mucsi as Creon and Emil Keres as Tiresias.\n\nIn 1986, Juliet Stevenson starred as Antigone, with John Shrapnel as Creon and Sir John Gielgud as Tiresias in the BBC's \"The Theban Plays\".\n\n\"Antigone at the Barbican\" was a 2015 filmed-for-TV version of a production at the Barbican directed by Ivo van Hove; the translation was by Anne Carson and the film starred Juliette Binoche as Antigone and Patrick O'Kane as Kreon.\n\nOther TV adaptations of \"Antigone\" have starred Irene Worth (1949) and Dorothy Tutin (1959), both broadcast by the BBC.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914", "title": "Antimicrobial resistance", "text": "Antimicrobial resistance\n\nAntimicrobial resistance (AMR or AR) is the ability of a microbe to resist the effects of medication that once could successfully treat the microbe. The term antibiotic resistance (AR or ABR) is a subset of AMR, as it applies only to bacteria becoming resistant to antibiotics. Resistant microbes are more difficult to treat, requiring alternative medications or higher doses of antimicrobials. These approaches may be more expensive, more toxic or both. Microbes resistant to multiple antimicrobials are called multidrug resistant (MDR). Those considered extensively drug resistant (XDR) or totally drug resistant (TDR) are sometimes called \"superbugs\".\n\nResistance arises through one of three mechanisms: natural resistance in certain types of bacteria, genetic mutation, or by one species acquiring resistance from another. All classes of microbes can develop resistance. Fungi develop antifungal resistance. Viruses develop antiviral resistance. Protozoa develop antiprotozoal resistance, and bacteria develop antibiotic resistance. Resistance can appear spontaneously because of random mutations. However, extended use of antimicrobials appears to encourage selection for mutations which can render antimicrobials ineffective.\nPreventive measures include only using antibiotics when needed, thereby stopping misuse of antibiotics or antimicrobials. Narrow-spectrum antibiotics are preferred over broad-spectrum antibiotics when possible, as effectively and accurately targeting specific organisms is less likely to cause resistance. For people who take these medications at home, education about proper use is essential. Health care providers can minimize spread of resistant infections by use of proper sanitation and hygiene, including handwashing and disinfecting between patients, and should encourage the same of the patient, visitors, and family members.\nRising drug resistance is caused mainly by use of antimicrobials in humans and other animals, and spread of resistant strains between the two. Growing resistance has also been linked to dumping of inadequately treated effluents from the pharmaceutical industry, especially in countries where bulk drugs are manufactured. Antibiotics increase selective pressure in bacterial populations, causing vulnerable bacteria to die; this increases the percentage of resistant bacteria which continue growing. Even at very low levels of antibiotic, resistant bacteria can have a growth advantage and grow faster than vulnerable bacteria. With resistance to antibiotics becoming more common there is greater need for alternative treatments. Calls for new antibiotic therapies have been issued, but new drug development is becoming rarer.\n\nAntimicrobial resistance is increasing globally because of greater access to antibiotic drugs in developing countries. Estimates are that 700,000 to several million deaths result per year. Each year in the United States, at least 2 million people become infected with bacteria that are resistant to antibiotics and at least 23,000 people die as a result. There are public calls for global collective action to address the threat that include proposals for international treaties on antimicrobial resistance. Worldwide antibiotic resistance is not completely identified, but poorer countries with weaker healthcare systems are more affected.\n\nThe WHO defines antimicrobial resistance as a microorganism's resistance to an antimicrobial drug that was once able to treat an infection by that microorganism.\nA person cannot become resistant to antibiotics. Resistance is a property of the microbe, not a person or other organism infected by a microbe.\n\nA World Health Organization (WHO) report released April 2014 stated, \"this serious threat is no longer a prediction for the future, it is happening right now in every region of the world and has the potential to affect anyone, of any age, in any country. Antibiotic resistance—when bacteria change so antibiotics no longer work in people who need them to treat infections—is now a major threat to public health.\"\n\nBacteria with resistance to antibiotics predate medical use of antibiotics by humans. However, widespread antibiotic use has made more bacteria resistant through the process of evolutionary pressure.\n\nReasons for the widespread use of antibiotics in human medicine include:\n\nOther causes include:\n\nIncreasing bacterial resistance is linked with the volume of antibiotic prescribed, as well as missing doses when taking antibiotics. Inappropriate prescribing of antibiotics has been attributed to a number of causes, such as patients insisting on antibiotics and physicians prescribing them as they do not have time to explain why they are not necessary. Another cause can be physicians not knowing when to prescribe antibiotics or being overly cautious for medical or legal reasons. For example, 70 to 80 percent of diarrhea is caused by viral pathogens, for which antibiotics are not effective. But nevertheless, around 40 percent of these cases are attempted to be treated with antibiotics. In some areas even over 80 percent of such cases are attempted to be treated with antibiotics.\n\nLower antibiotic concentration contributes to the increase of AMR by introducing more mutations that support bacterial growth in higher antibiotic concentration. For example, sub-inhibitory concentration have induced genetic mutation in bacteria such as \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" and \"Bacteroides fragilis\".\n\nUp to half of antibiotics used in humans are unnecessary and inappropriate. For example, a third of people believe that antibiotics are effective for the common cold, and the common cold is the most common reason antibiotics are prescribed even though antibiotics are useless against viruses. A single regimen of antibiotics even in compliant individuals leads to a greater risk of resistant organisms to that antibiotic in the person for a month to possibly a year.\n\nAntibiotic resistance increases with duration of treatment. Therefore, as long as an effective minimum is kept, shorter courses of antibiotics are likely to decrease rates of resistance, reduce cost, and have better outcomes with fewer complications. Short course regimens exist for community-acquired pneumonia spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, suspected lung infections in intense care wards, so-called acute abdomen, middle ear infections, sinusitis and throat infections, and penetrating gut injuries. In some situations a short course may not cure the infection as well as a long course. A BMJ editorial recommended that antibiotics can often be safely stopped 72 hours after symptoms resolve.\n\nBecause individuals may feel better before the infection is eradicated, doctors must provide instructions to them so they know when it is safe to stop taking a prescription. Some researchers advocate doctors' using a very short course of antibiotics, reevaluating the patient after a few days, and stopping treatment if there are no clinical signs of infection.\n\nCertain antibiotic classes result in resistance more than others. Increased rates of MRSA infections are seen when using glycopeptides, cephalosporins, and quinolone antibiotics. Cephalosporins, and particularly quinolones and clindamycin, are more likely to produce colonisation with \"Clostridium difficile\".\n\nFactors within the intensive care unit setting such as mechanical ventilation and multiple underlying diseases also appear to contribute to bacterial resistance. Poor hand hygiene by hospital staff has been associated with the spread of resistant organisms.\n\nThe World Health Organization concluded that inappropriate use of antibiotics in animal husbandry is an underlying contributor to the emergence and spread of antibiotic-resistant germs, and that the use of antibiotics as growth promoters in animal feeds should be restricted. The World Organisation for Animal Health has added to the Terrestrial Animal Health Code a series of guidelines with recommendations to its members for the creation and harmonization of national antimicrobial resistance surveillance and monitoring programs, monitoring of the quantities of antibiotics used in animal husbandry, and recommendations to ensure the proper and prudent use of antibiotic substances. Another guideline is to implement methodologies that help to establish associated risk factors and assess the risk of antibiotic resistance.\n\nNaturally occurring antibiotic resistance is common. Genes for resistance to antibiotics, like antibiotics themselves, are ancient. The genes that confer resistance are known as the environmental resistome. These genes may be transferred from non-disease-causing bacteria to those that do cause disease, leading to clinically significant antibiotic resistance.\n\nIn 1952 it was shown that penicillin-resistant bacteria existed before penicillin treatment; and also preexistent bacterial resistance to streptomycin. In 1962, the presence of penicillinase was detected in dormant endospores of \"Bacillus licheniformis\", revived from dried soil on the roots of plants, preserved since 1689 in the British Museum. Six strains of \"Clostridium\", found in the bowels of William Braine and John Hartnell (members of the Franklin Expedition) showed resistance to cefoxitin and clindamycin.\n\nPenicillinase may have emerged as a defense mechanism for bacteria in their habitats, such as the case of penicillinase-rich \"Staphylococcus aureus\", living with penicillin-producing \"Trichophyton\"; however, this may be circumstantial. Search for a penicillinase ancestor has focused on the class of proteins that must be \"a priori\" capable of specific combination with penicillin. The resistance to cefoxitin and clindamycin in turn was attributed to Braine's and Hartnell's contact with microorganisms that naturally produce them or random mutation in the chromosomes of \"Clostridium\" strains.\n\nThere is evidence that heavy metals and other pollutants may select for antibiotic-resistant bacteria, generating a constant source of them in small numbers.\n\nAntibiotic resistance is a growing problem among humans and wildlife in terrestrial or aquatic environments. In this respect, the spread and contamination of the environment, especially through water pollution \"hot spots\" such as hospital wastewater and untreated urban wastewater, is a growing and serious public health problem. Antibiotics have been polluting the environment since their introduction through human waste (medication, farming), animals, and the pharmaceutical industry. The contribution of the pharmaceutical industry is so significant that parallels can be drawn between countries with highest rate of increasing antibiotic resistance and countries with largest footprint of pharmaceutical industry. China, which contributes to nearly 90 per cent of the world's active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) manufacturing, has seen a 22 per cent increase in rate of antimicrobial resistance in six years, compared to a 6 per cent increase in the United States.\n\nAlong with antibiotic waste, resistant bacteria follow, thus introducing antibiotic-resistant bacteria into the environment. Already in 2011, mapping of sewage and water supply samples in New Delhi showed widespread and uncontrolled infection as indicated by the presence of NDM-1-positive enteric bacteria (New Delhi metallo-beta-lactamase 1).\n\nAs bacteria replicate quickly, the resistant bacteria that enter water bodies through wastewater replicate their resistance genes as they continue to divide. In addition, bacteria carrying resistance genes have the ability to spread those genes to other species via horizontal gene transfer. Therefore, even if the specific antibiotic is no longer introduced into the environment, antibiotic-resistance genes will persist through the bacteria that have since replicated without continuous exposure. Antibiotic resistance is widespread in marine vertebrates, and they may be important reservoirs of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in the marine environment.\n\nThere have been increasing public calls for global collective action to address the threat, including a proposal for international treaty on antimicrobial resistance. Further detail and attention is still needed in order to recognize and measure trends in resistance on the international level; the idea of a global tracking system has been suggested but implementation has yet to occur. A system of this nature would provide insight to areas of high resistance as well as information necessary for evaluation of programs and other changes made to fight or reverse antibiotic resistance.\n\nAntibiotic treatment duration should be based on the infection and other health problems a person may have. For many infections once a person has improved there is little evidence that stopping treatment causes more resistance. Some therefore feel that stopping early may be reasonable in some cases. Other infections, however, do require long courses regardless of whether a person feels better.\n\nThere are multiple national and international monitoring programs for drug-resistant threats, including methicillin-resistant \"Staphylococcus aureus\" (MRSA), vancomycin-resistant \"S. aureus\" (VRSA), extended spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL), vancomycin-resistant \"Enterococcus\" (VRE), multidrug-resistant \"A. baumannii\" (MRAB).\n\nResistanceOpen is an online global map of antimicrobial resistance developed by HealthMap which displays aggregated data on antimicrobial resistance from publicly available and user submitted data. The website can display data for a 25-mile radius from a location. Users may submit data from antibiograms for individual hospitals or laboratories. European data is from the EARS-Net (European Antimicrobial Resistance Surveillance Network), part of the ECDC.\n\nResistanceMap is a website by the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy and provides data on antimicrobial resistance on a global level.\n\nAntibiotic stewardship programmes appear useful in reducing rates of antibiotic resistance.\n\nExcessive antibiotic use has become one of the top contributors to the development of antibiotic resistance. Since the beginning of the antibiotic era, antibiotics have been used to treat a wide range of disease. Overuse of antibiotics has become the primary cause of rising levels of antibiotic resistance. The main problem is that doctors are willing to prescribe antibiotics to ill-informed individuals who believe that antibiotics can cure nearly all illnesses, including viral infections like the common cold. In an analysis of drug prescriptions, 36% of individuals with a cold or an upper respiratory infection (both viral in origin) were given prescriptions for antibiotics. These prescriptions accomplished nothing other than increasing the risk of further evolution of antibiotic resistant bacteria.\n\nAntimicrobial stewardship teams in hospitals are encouraging optimal use of antimicrobials. The goals of antimicrobial stewardship are to help practitioners pick the right drug at the right dose and duration of therapy while preventing misuse and minimizing the development of resistance. Stewardship may reduce the length of stay by an average of slightly over 1 day while not increasing the risk of death.\n\nGiven the volume of care provided in primary care (General Practice), recent strategies have focused on reducing unnecessary antibiotic prescribing in this setting. Simple interventions, such as written information explaining the futility of antibiotics for common infections such as upper respiratory tract infections, have been shown to reduce antibiotic prescribing.\n\nThe prescriber should closely adhere to the five rights of drug administration: the right patient, the right drug, the right dose, the right route, and the right time.\n\nCultures should be taken before treatment when indicated and treatment potentially changed based on the susceptibility report.\n\nAbout a third of antibiotic prescriptions written in outpatient settings in the United States were not appropriate in 2010 and 2011. Doctors in the U.S. wrote 506 annual antibiotic scripts for every 1,000 people, with 353 being medically necessary.\n\nHealth workers and pharmacists can help tackle resistance by: enhancing infection prevention and control; only prescribing and dispensing antibiotics when they are truly needed; prescribing and dispensing the right antibiotic(s) to treat the illness.\n\nPeople can help tackle resistance by using antibiotics only when prescribed by a doctor; completing the full prescription, even if they feel better; never sharing antibiotics with others or using leftover prescriptions.\n\n\nInfectious disease control through improved water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) infrastructure needs to be included in the antimicrobial resistance (AMR) agenda. The \"Interagency Coordination Group on Antimicrobial Resistance\" stated in 2018 that \"the spread of pathogens through unsafe water results in a high burden of gastrointestinal disease, increasing even further the need for antibiotic treatment.\" This is particularly a problem in developing countries where the spread of infectious diseases caused by inadequate WASH standards is a major driver of antibiotic demand. Growing usage of antibiotics together with persistent infectious disease levels have led to a dangerous cycle in which reliance on antimicrobials increases while the efficacy of drugs diminishes. The proper use of infrastructure for water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) can result in a 47–72 percent decrease of diarrhea cases treated with antibiotics depending on the type of intervention and its effectiveness. A reduction of the diarrhea disease burden through improved infrastructure would result in large decreases in the number of diarrhea cases treated with antibiotics. This was estimated as ranging from 5 million in Brazil to up to 590 million in India by the year 2030. The strong link between increased consumption and resistance indicates that this will directly mitigate the accelerating spread of AMR. Sanitation and water for all by 2030 is Goal Number 6 of the Sustainable Development Goals.\n\nAn increase in hand washing compliance by hospital staff results in decreased rates of resistant organisms.\n\nWater supply and sanitation infrastructure in health facilities offer significant co-benefits for combatting AMR, and investment should be increased. There is much room for improvement: WHO and UNICEF estimated in 2015 that globally 38% of health facilities did not have a source of water, nearly 19% had no toilets and 35% had no water and soap or alcohol-based hand rub for handwashing.\n\nManufacturers of antimicrobials need to improve the treatment of their wastewater (by using industrial wastewater treatment processes) to reduce the release of residues into the environment.\n\nIn 1997, European Union health ministers voted to ban avoparcin and four additional antibiotics used to promote animal growth in 1999. In 2006 a ban on the use of antibiotics in European feed, with the exception of two antibiotics in poultry feeds, became effective. In Scandinavia, there is evidence that the ban has led to a lower prevalence of antibiotic resistance in (nonhazardous) animal bacterial populations. As of 2004, several European countries established a decline of antimicrobial resistance in humans through limiting the usage antimicrobials in agriculture and food industries without jeopardizing animal health or economic cost.\n\nThe United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) collect data on antibiotic use in humans and in a more limited fashion in animals.\nThe FDA first determined in 1977 that there is evidence of emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacterial strains in livestock. The long-established practice of permitting OTC sales of antibiotics (including penicillin and other drugs) to lay animal owners for administration to their own animals nonetheless continued in all states.\nIn 2000, the FDA announced their intention to revoke approval of fluoroquinolone use in poultry production because of substantial evidence linking it to the emergence of fluoroquinolone-resistant \"Campylobacter\" infections in humans. Legal challenges from the food animal and pharmaceutical industries delayed the final decision to do so until 2006. Fluroquinolones have been banned from extra-label use in food animals in the USA since 2007. However, they remain widely used in companion and exotic animals.\n\nThe increasing interconnectedness of the world and the fact that new classes of antibiotics have not been developed and approved for more than 25 years highlight the extent to which antimicrobial resistance is a global health challenge. A global action plan to tackle the growing problem of resistance to antibiotics and other antimicrobial medicines was endorsed at the Sixty-eighth World Health Assembly in May 2015. One of the key objectives of the plan is to improve awareness and understanding of antimicrobial resistance through effective communication, education and training. This global action plan developed by the World Health Organization was created to combat the issue of antimicrobial resistance and was guided by the advice of countries and key stakeholders. The WHO's global action plan is composed of five key objectives that can be targeted through different means, and represents countries coming together to solve a major problem that can have future health consequences.\n\n\nThe World Health Organization has promoted the first World Antibiotic Awareness Week running from 16–22 November 2015. The aim of the week is to increase global awareness of antibiotic resistance. It also wants to promote the correct usage of antibiotics across all fields in order to prevent further instances of antibiotic resistance.\n\nWorld Antibiotic Awareness Week has been held every November since 2015. For 2017, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the World Health Organization (WHO) and the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) are together calling for responsible use of antibiotics in humans and animals to reduce the emergence of antibiotic resistance.\n\nThe four main mechanisms by which microorganisms exhibit resistance to antimicrobials are:\nAntibiotic resistance can be a result of horizontal gene transfer, and also of unlinked point mutations in the pathogen genome at a rate of about 1 in 10 per chromosomal replication. Mutations are rare but the fact that bacteria reproduce at such a high rate allows for the effect to be significant. A mutation may produce a change in the binding site of the antibiotic, which may allow the site to continue proper functioning in the presence of the antibiotic or prevent the binding of the antibiotic to the site altogether.\n\nAntibiotic action against a pathogen can be seen as an environmental pressure. Those bacteria with a mutation that allows them to survive will reproduce, pass the trait to their offspring, which leads to the microevolution of a fully resistant colony. Chromosomal mutations providing antibiotic resistance benefit the bacteria but also confer a cost of fitness. For example, a ribosomal mutation may protect a bacterial cell by changing the binding site of an antibiotic but will also slow protein synthesis. manifesting, in slower growth rate.\n\nIn Gram-negative bacteria, plasmid-mediated resistance genes produce proteins that can bind to DNA gyrase, protecting it from the action of quinolones. Finally, mutations at key sites in DNA gyrase or topoisomerase IV can decrease their binding affinity to quinolones, decreasing the drug's effectiveness.\n\nBacteria can often develop antibiotic resistance. Mutations that confer increased survival are selected for in natural selection, which can happen quickly in bacteria because lifespans and production of new generations can be on a timescale of mere hours. A new (de novo) mutation in a parent cell can quickly become an inherited mutation of widespread prevalence. Moreover, some adaptive mutations can propagate not only through inheritance but also through horizontal gene transfer. Very often this is done via plasmids, however, through means of Transduction (genetics), Transformation (genetics) and chromosomal Conjugation (genetics), resistance genes residing on bacterial chromosomes can also be transferred. If the new DNA is maintained in the receiving bacterium, this transfer is followed by inheritance of the new resistance from parents to offspring.\n\nRecent findings show no necessity of large populations of bacteria for the appearance of antibiotic resistance. Small populations of \"E. coli\" in an antibiotic gradient can become resistant. Any heterogeneous environment with respect to nutrient and antibiotic gradients may facilitate antibiotic resistance in small bacterial populations. Researchers hypothesize that the mechanism of resistance development is based on four SNP mutations in the genome of \"E. coli\" produced by the gradient of antibiotic.\n\nAntibiotic resistance can be introduced artificially into a microorganism through laboratory protocols, sometimes used as a selectable marker to examine the mechanisms of gene transfer or to identify individuals that absorbed a piece of DNA that included the resistance gene and another gene of interest.\n\nNew Delhi metallo-beta-lactamase 1 (NDM-1) is an enzyme that makes bacteria resistant to a broad range of beta-lactam antibiotics. The most common bacteria that make this enzyme are gram-negative such as \"Escherichia coli\" and \"Klebsiella pneumoniae\", but the gene for NDM-1 can spread from one strain of bacteria to another by horizontal gene transfer.\n\nSpecific antiviral drugs are used to treat some viral infections. These drugs prevent viruses from reproducing by inhibiting essential stages of the virus's replication cycle in infected cells. Antivirals are used to treat HIV, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, influenza, herpes viruses including varicella zoster virus, cytomegalovirus and Epstein-Barr virus. With each virus, some strains have become resistant to the administered drugs.\n\nResistance to HIV antivirals is problematic, and even multi-drug resistant strains have evolved. Resistant strains of the HIV virus emerge rapidly if only one antiviral drug is used. Using three or more drugs together has helped to control this problem, but new drugs are needed because of the continuing emergence of drug-resistant HIV strains.\n\nInfections by fungi are a cause of high morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised persons, such as those with HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis or receiving chemotherapy. The fungi candida, \"Cryptococcus neoformans\" and \"Aspergillus fumigatus\" cause most of these infections and antifungal resistance occurs in all of them. Multidrug resistance in fungi is increasing because of the widespread use of antifungal drugs to treat infections in immunocompromised individuals.\n\nOf particular note, Fluconazole-resistant Candida species have been highlighted as a growing problem by the CDC. More than 20 species of Candida can cause Candidiasis infection, the most common of which is \"Candida albicans\". Candida yeasts normally inhabit the skin and mucous membranes without causing infection. However, overgrowth of Candida can lead to Candidiasis. Some Candida strains are becoming resistant to first-line and second-line antifungal agents such as azoles and echinocandins.\n\nThe protozoan parasites that cause the diseases malaria, trypanosomiasis, toxoplasmosis, cryptosporidiosis and leishmaniasis are important human pathogens.\n\nMalarial parasites that are resistant to the drugs that are currently available to infections are common and this has led to increased efforts to develop new drugs. Resistance to recently developed drugs such as artemisinin has also been reported. The problem of drug resistance in malaria has driven efforts to develop vaccines.\n\nTrypanosomes are parasitic protozoa that cause African trypanosomiasis and Chagas disease (American trypanosomiasis). There are no vaccines to prevent these infections so drugs such as pentamidine and suramin, benznidazole and nifurtimox are used to treat infections. These drugs are effective but infections caused by resistant parasites have been reported.\n\nLeishmaniasis is caused by protozoa and is an important public health problem worldwide, especially in sub-tropical and tropical countries. Drug resistance has \"become a major concern\".\n\nThe discovery of penicillin in 1928 and other antibiotics in the 20th century proved to be a significant medical achievement, saving millions of lives and significantly reducing the burden of infectious diseases. The 1950s to 1970s represented the golden age of antibiotic discovery, where countless new classes of antibiotics were discovered to treat previously incurable diseases such as tuberculosis and syphilis. However, since that time the discovery of new classes of antibiotics has been almost nonexistent, and represents a situation that is especially problematic considering the resiliency of bacteria shown over time and the continued misuse and overuse of antibiotics in treatment.\n\nThe phenomenon of antimicrobial resistance caused by overuse of antibiotics was predicted by Alexander Fleming who said \"The time may come when penicillin can be bought by anyone in the shops. Then there is the danger that the ignorant man may easily under-dose himself and by exposing his microbes to nonlethal quantities of the drug make them resistant.\" Without the creation of new and stronger antibiotics an era where common infections and minor injuries can kill, and where complex procedures such as surgery and chemotherapy become too risky, is a very real possibility. Antimicrobial resistance threatens the world as we know it, and can lead to epidemics of enormous proportions if preventive actions are not taken. In this day and age current antimicrobial resistance leads to longer hospital stays, higher medical costs, and increased mortality.\n\nFor the fiscal year 2016 budget, President Obama suggested to nearly double the amount of federal funding to \"combat and prevent\" antibiotic resistance to more than $1.2 billion. Many international funding agencies like USAID, DFID, SIDA and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation have pledged money for developing strategies to counter antimicrobial resistance.\n\nSince the mid-1980s pharmaceutical companies have invested in medications for cancer or chronic disease that have greater potential to make money and have \"de-emphasized or dropped development of antibiotics\". On January 20, 2016 at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, more than \"80 pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies\" from around the world called for \"transformational commercial models\" at a global level to spur research and development on antibiotics and on the \"enhanced use of diagnostic tests that can rapidly identify the infecting organism\".\n\nSome global health scholars have argued that a global, legal framework is needed to prevent and control antimicrobial resistance. For instance, binding global policies could be used to create antimicrobial use standards, regulate antibiotic marketing, and strengthen global surveillance systems. Ensuring compliance of involved parties is a challenge. Global antimicrobial resistance policies could take lessons from the environmental sector by adopting strategies that have made international environmental agreements successful in the past such as: sanctions for non-compliance, assistance for implementation, majority vote decision-making rules, an independent scientific panel, and specific commitments.\n\nOn March 27, 2015, the White House released a comprehensive plan to address the increasing need for agencies to combat the rise of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. The Task Force for Combating Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria developed \"The National Action Plan for Combating Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria\" with the intent of providing a roadmap to guide the US in the antibiotic resistance challenge and with hopes of saving many lives. This plan outlines steps taken by the Federal government over the next five years needed in order to prevent and contain outbreaks of antibiotic-resistant infections; maintain the efficacy of antibiotics already on the market; and to help to develop future diagnostics, antibiotics, and vaccines.\n\nThe Action Plan was developed around five goals with focuses on strengthening health care, public health veterinary medicine, agriculture, food safety and research, and manufacturing. These goals, as listed by the White House, are as follows:\nThe following are goals set to meet by 2020:\n\nAccording to WHO policymakers can help tackle resistance by strengthening resistance tracking and laboratory capacity; regulating and promoting appropriate use of medicines. Policymakers and industry can help tackle resistance by: fostering innovation and research and development of new tools; promoting cooperation and information sharing among all stakeholders.\n\nIt is unclear if rapid viral testing affects antibiotic use in children.\n\nMicroorganisms do not develop resistance to vaccines because a vaccine enhances the body's immune system, whereas an antibiotic operates separately from the body's normal defenses. Furthermore, if the use of vaccines increases, there is evidence that antibiotic resistant strains of pathogens will decrease; the need for antibiotics will naturally decrease as vaccines prevent infection before it occurs. However, new strains that escape immunity induced by vaccines may evolve; for example, an updated influenza vaccine is needed each year.\n\nWhile theoretically promising, antistaphylococcal vaccines have shown limited efficacy, because of immunological variation between \"Staphylococcus\" species, and the limited duration of effectiveness of the antibodies produced. Development and testing of more effective vaccines is underway.\n\nAlternating therapy is a proposed method in which two or three antibiotics are taken in a rotation versus taking just one antibiotic such that bacteria resistant to one antibiotic are killed when the next antibiotic is taken. Studies have found that this method reduces the rate at which antibiotic resistant bacteria emerge in vitro relative to a single drug for the entire duration.\n\nStudies have found that bacteria that evolve antibiotic resistance towards one group of antibiotic may become more sensitive to others. This phenomenon can be utilized to select against resistant bacteria using an approach termed collateral sensitivity cycling, which has recently been found to be relevant in developing treatment strategies for chronic infections caused by \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\".\n\nSince the discovery of antibiotics, research and development (R&D) efforts have provided new drugs in time to treat bacteria that became resistant to older antibiotics, but in the 2000s there has been concern that development has slowed enough that seriously ill people may run out of treatment options. Another concern is that doctors may become reluctant to perform routine surgeries because of the increased risk of harmful infection. Backup treatments can have serious side-effects; for example, treatment of multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis can cause deafness or psychological disability. The potential crisis at hand is the result of a marked decrease in industry R&D. Poor financial investment in antibiotic research has exacerbated the situation. The pharmaceutical industry has little incentive to invest in antibiotics because of the high risk and because the potential financial returns are less likely to cover the cost of development than for other pharmaceuticals. In 2011, Pfizer, one of the last major pharmaceutical companies developing new antibiotics, shut down its primary research effort, citing poor shareholder returns relative to drugs for chronic illnesses. However, small and medium-sized pharmaceutical companies are still active in antibiotic drug research.\n\nIn the United States, drug companies and the administration of President Barack Obama have been proposing changing the standards by which the FDA approves antibiotics targeted at resistant organisms. On 12 December 2013, the Antibiotic Development to Advance Patient Treatment (ADAPT) Act of 2013 was introduced in the U.S. Congress. The ADAPT Act aims to fast-track the drug development in order to combat the growing public health threat of 'superbugs'. Under this Act, the FDA can approve antibiotics and antifungals needed for life-threatening infections based on data from smaller clinical trials. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) will reinforce the monitoring of the use of antibiotics that treat serious and life-threatening infections and the emerging resistance, and make the data publicly available. The FDA antibiotics labeling process, 'Susceptibility Test Interpretive Criteria for Microbial Organisms' or 'breakpoints' is also streamlined to allow the most up-to-date and cutting-edge data available to healthcare professionals under the new Act.\n\nOn 18 September 2014 Obama signed an executive order to implement the recommendations proposed in a report by the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) which outlines strategies to stream-line clinical trials and speed up the R&D of new antibiotics. Among the proposals:\n\nThe U.S. National Institutes of Health plans to fund a new research network on the issue up to $62 million from 2013 to 2019. Using authority created by the Pandemic and All Hazards Preparedness Act of 2006, the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services announced that it will spend between $40 million and $200 million in funding for R&D on new antibiotic drugs under development by GlaxoSmithKline.\n\nAntimicrobial susceptibility testing (AST) can help practitioners avoid prescribing unnecessary antibiotics in the style of precision medicine, and help them prescribe effective antibiotics, but with the traditional approach it could take 12 to 48 hours. Rapid testing, possible from molecular diagnostics innovations, is defined as \"being feasible within an 8-h working shift\". Progress has been slow due to a range of reasons including cost and regulation. \n\nIn 2016, the United States National Institutes of Health (NIH) announced the Antimicrobial Resistance Diagnostic Challenge as a $20 million prize to encourage the development of diagnostic tests to identify highly resistant bacterial infections. As of 2017, point-of-care resistance diagnostics (POCRD) was available for methicillin-resistant Staphyloccus aureus (MRSA), rifampin-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis (TB), and vancomycin-resistant Enterococci (VRE) through GeneXpert by molecular diagnostics company Cepheid.\n\nPhage therapy is the therapeutic use of bacteriophages to treat pathogenic bacterial infections. Phage therapy has many potential applications in human medicine as well as dentistry, veterinary science, and agriculture.\n\nPhage therapy relies on the use of naturally-occurring bacteriophages to infect and lyse bacteria at the site of infection in a host. Due to current advances in genetics and biotechnology these bacteriophages can possibly be manufactured to treat specific infections. Phages can be bioengineered to target multidrug-resistant bacterial infections, and their use involves the added benefit of preventing the elimination of beneficial bacteria in the human body. Phages destroy bacterial cell walls and membrane through the use of lytic proteins which kill bacteria by making many holes from the inside out. Bacteriophages can even possess the ability to digest the biofilm that many bacteria develop that protect them from antibiotics in order to effectively infect and kill bacteria. Bioengineering can play a role in creating successful bacteriophages.\n\nUnderstanding the mutual interactions and evolutions of bacterial and phage populations in the environment of a human or animal body is essential for rational phage therapy. \n\nBacteriophagics are used against antibiotic resistant bacteria in Georgia (George Eliava Institute) and in one institute in Wrocław, Poland. Bacteriophage cocktails are common drugs sold over the counter in pharmacies in eastern countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "40240767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40240767", "title": "August 2013 Rabaa massacre", "text": "August 2013 Rabaa massacre\n\nOn 14 August 2013, Egyptian security forces and army under the command of general Abdel Fattah el-Sisi raided two camps of protesters in Cairo: one at al-Nahda Square and a larger one at Rabaa al-Adawiya Square. The two sites had been occupied by supporters of ousted President Mohamed Morsi, who had been removed from office by the military a month earlier in a military coup d'etat against him. The camps were raided after initiatives to end the six-week sit-ins by peaceful means failed and as a result of the raids the camps were cleared out within hours. The raids were described by Human Rights Watch as \"one of the world's largest killings of demonstrators in a single day in recent history\". According to Human Rights Watch, a minimum of 817 people and more likely at least 1,000 died during the dispersal. However, according to the Egyptian Health Ministry, 638 people were killed on 14 August (of which 595 were civilians and 43 police officers) and at least 3,994 were injured. The Muslim Brotherhood and the National Coalition for Supporting Legitimacy (NCSL) stated the number of deaths from the Rabaa al-Adawiya Mosque sit-in alone was about 2,600. The total casualty count made 14 August the deadliest day in Egypt since the 2011 Egyptian revolution, which had toppled Morsi's predecessor Hosni Mubarak. Several world leaders denounced the violence during the sit-in dispersals.\n\nViolent retaliation followed in several cities across the country. The interim government declared a month-long state of emergency in response and curfews were instituted in many areas.\n\nFollowing the 2011 Egyptian revolution and subsequent instability, millions of Egyptians took to the streets calling for the resignation of Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood president, which culminated in the ousting of President Mohamed Morsi. Prior to the anti-Morsi uprising, supporters of the deposed president occupied two squares — Rabaa al-Adawiya in Nasr City, Cairo and al-Nahda in Giza — originally to celebrate the one-year anniversary of his presidency, but from 3 July onwards to protest his ouster, vowing to remain until Morsi was reinstated. Authorities delayed clearing the two protest camps as internal and external reconciliation process was established to resolve the crisis peacefully.\n\nAccording to the military, the sit-ins were flash points for outbreaks of violence and bloody confrontations amongst pro-Morsi, anti-Morsi demonstrators and security forces. The encampments became a potent symbol of Egypt's impasse as they grew more permanent with stores, barbers and their own television station. Authorities saw the camps as destabilising and disruptive and representing \"a threat to the Egyptian national security and an unacceptable terrorizing of citizens,\" accusing the pro-Morsi side of provoking bloodshed to win sympathy and considered the standoff as hindering their view of putting Egypt on a \"roadmap\" to restoring civilian democracy, with a new constitution and new elections. The government threatened a raid on the protest camps on multiple occasions. Allegedly, an ultimatum was issued prior to 14 August, although Al-Azhar, Egypt's official Islamic authority, denied that such a warning had been given.\n\nInitiatives that tried to resolve the tension, including foreign-backed efforts by Gulf Arab countries, the E.U. and the U.S.A., failed to yield any positive outcomes before state authorities decreed these a failure and issued the ultimatum. Prime Minister Hazem el-Beblawi warned just ahead of the Muslim Eid al-Fitr holiday that the government's decision to clear the sit-ins was \"irreversible\".\n\nAccording to the Interior Ministry, the plan was originally to disperse the six-week-old sit-ins gradually by forming cordons around the two sites as early as dawn Monday, 12 August, allowing protesters to leave but preventing others from getting in, to minimize casualties before using water cannons and tear gas. However, leaked news of the plan prompted thousands of protesters to defiantly flood into two protest camps, prompting police to postpone the move.\n\nThe protesters had been fortifying the sit-in camps. In Rabaa, men with helmets, sticks and what appeared to be protective sports equipment guarded barricades made of sandbags, truck tires and bricks. They also built three concrete waist-high barriers against armored vehicles.\n\nOn 14 August 2013, shortly after 07:00, Egyptian police moved to disperse the camps. According to the Interior Ministry, the plan was originally to stop the protests gradually by cutting off supply lines while providing a safe exit for those who elected to leave.\n\nBy 8:00 the smaller camp — near Cairo University in Giza — was cleared of protesters, but it took about 12 hours for police to take control of the main sit-in site near the Rabaa al-Adawiya Mosque that served as the epicenter of the pro-Morsi campaign. Following armed protesters with guns attacking police, police in riot gear responded back using tear gas, rubber bullets, birdshot, and live ammunition to disperse the protesters. Police forces were supported by bulldozers (to clear barricades), armored vehicles, and rooftop snipers. Military helicopters swooped low over the encampment and, using loudspeakers, warned the thousands of demonstrators to leave the area along designated routes to safety.\n\nFor much of the afternoon, thousands of Morsi supporters chanting \"Allahu Akbar\" tried to join those besieged by the security forces inside the Nasr City camp. They were driven away when police fired tear gas. All entrances to Rabaa were later blocked by security forces. Brotherhood spokesman Gehad El-Haddad accused police snipers of firing at Rabaa protesters from the rooftop of surrounding buildings and protesters also said that snipers fired down on those trying to flee or reach safety. In the afternoon, the protesters managed to push the police back to the point where they could get into a makeshift hospital. Shortly before dusk, soldiers and police officers renewed their push and protestors were forced to flee. Government forces then seized control, destroying what remained of the protest camp.\n\nImmediately after the morning raids, the National Coalition for Supporting Legitimacy, a pro-Morsi group, reiterated its rejection of violence and called on its members to continue to protest \"to stop the massacre\". \nThe attacks set off retaliatory clashes and protest marches. Protesters blocked important roads, including the Ring Road, a key route that connects many of Cairo's major districts. Crowds of Morsi supporters marched toward eastern Cairo in the late morning, running into a barrage of gunfire as they confronted police lines. Separately, a number of attacks on police stations occurred around the country. Interior Minister Mohamed Ibrahim put the number of stations attacked at 21. Angry mobs reportedly also attacked dozens of Christian properties. By nightfall, the military-backed interim government had declared a state of emergency and instituted a curfew. However, protesters established new sit-ins outside Mustafa Mahmoud Mosque in Mohandeseen, Giza and others in cities around the country, defying the new curfew and the interior minister's vows to break up any such assemblies.\n\nInitial reports by the Egyptian Health Ministry said 235 protesters, three journalists and 43 policemen died in the violence and more than 2,000 were injured, with the death toll expected to rise. Many protesters or rioters were shot and at least one person appeared to have been burned alive. Egyptian state television aired images showing what appears to be weapons confiscated from the sit-in protesters' camps, including automatic rifles and thousands of rounds of ammunition. An Egyptian free-to-air satellite news television channel aired infrared footage appearing to show pro-Brotherhood rioters firing automatic weapons against security forces. According to some political analysts and historians, the force with which the police attacked the protesters appeared designed to provoke a violent response from supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood.\n\nThe violence then spread across the country as people learned what had happened in Cairo and took to the streets in anger. In the Giza Governorate, an angry mob attacked a police station, one of 21 such attacks according to the interior ministry. In southern Egypt, between two and seven Coptic Christian churches were burned to the ground, according to the \"New York Times\", while the interior ministry said that at least seven Coptic Christian churches had been vandalised or torched by suspected Islamists. One Coptic rights group, Maspero Youth Union (MYU), estimated that as many as 36 churches were \"completely\" devastated by fire across nine Egyptian governorates including in Minya, Sohag and Assiut, and many other churches were looted or stormed in ensuing street violence. Christian activists accused Morsi supporters of waging \"a war of retaliation against Copts in Egypt.\" According to the government, Muslim Brotherhood supporters attacked government headquarters in several governorates. Supporters of Morsi staged solidarity protests against the crackdown, with clashes reported in Ismailia, Alexandria, Suez, Upper Egypt's Assiyut and Aswan and other places. In defiance of the curfew, Morsi supporters vowed to return to the streets to continue protesting against the crackdown and coup. Egyptian banks and its stock market were closed through 15 August. Rail travel into and out of Cairo was also suspended. In Giza, hundreds of Morsi supporters also set fire to local government offices; the government then authorised the use of live ammunition on anyone attacking state buildings.\n\nTamarod called on its supporters to protest on 16 August and to form neighbourhood watch groups to guard against Morsi supporters; in like measure, Morsi supporters vowed to keep up their campaign to get the deposed president reinstated.\n\nThe next day, hundreds of Morsi supporters barricaded themselves at the Fateh Mosque in Cairo. After a day, security forces again cleared the demonstrators. The Muslim Brotherhood then reiterated its call to hold continued protests. The Muslim Brotherhood called for a \"Day of Rage\" after Friday prayers on 16 August with Muslim Brotherhood spokesman Gehad el-Haddad writing on \"Twitter\": \"Anti-coup rallies tomorrow will depart from all mosques of Cairo and head towards Ramsis square after Jumaa prayer in 'Friday of Anger'.\" The party also released a statement that read: \"Despite the pain and sorrow over the loss of our martyrs, the latest coup makers' crime has increased our determination to end them.\" By 20 August, the leader of the Muslim Brotherhood, Mohammed Badie, who had been in hiding, was arrested after being found in a residential flat in Nasr City. Pro-Morsi supporters continued to rally and on 30 August six protesters died.\n\nThe interim government declared a month-long state of emergency, commencing at 16:00. By doing so, the right to a trial and due process of the law was suspended. A 19:00 curfew was also declared in 14 of the 27 governorates (Cairo, Giza, Alexandria, Suez, Qena, Ismailia, Asyut, Sohag, Beni Suef, Minya, Beheira, South Sinai, North Sinai and Faiyum). The army promised to enforce the curfew with the \"utmost firmness.\" The curfew would be enforced from 19:00–06:00 for a month, along with the state of emergency. The following day, Egypt's interim cabinet lifted the curfew in the cities of Sharm el-Sheikh, Taba and Dahab in South Sinai to avoid harming tourism. The curfew had started to hurt the Cairo economy after less than a week in place. Starting on 24 August, the interim cabinet decided to shorten the curfew by two hours to 21:00-06:00 excluding Fridays. On 31 August, the curfew was again shortened by another two hours to 23:00-06:00 excluding Fridays where the curfew remained from 19:00-06:00. On 12 September, Egypt's interim government decided to extend the state of emergency for 2 months, until 14 November, along with the curfew which remained unchanged. Starting 21 September, the curfew was again shortened by two hours to 00:00-05:00 excluding Fridays where the curfew was shortened by one hour to 19:00-05:00. On 24 October, the curfew was again shortened by one hour to 01:00-05:00 excluding Fridays where the curfew remained from 19:00-05:00. The state of emergency and curfew was lifted at 16:00 on 12 November, two days earlier than expected, following a ruling by the administrative court.\n\nOn 14 August, the Egyptian Health Ministry said that at least 600 protesters died and more than 2,000 injured. An additional 43 police officers were killed in the violence, according to the Interior Ministry. The Muslim Brotherhood estimated the death toll at 2,000. Of the dead, 37 were from the town of Fayoum. Many of the dead appeared to be young adults.\n\nOn 15 August, the Egyptian Health Ministry then raised the death toll to 638 and number of injured to 3,994 from the clashes that broke out the previous day. Of those killed, 595 were protesters, including 377 at Rabaa Al-Adawiya and 90 in al-Nahda Square. It is unclear whether at least a dozen of charred corpses and others that remain unidentified, have been included in the official death toll. However, the Muslim Brotherhood and NCSL put the number of deaths from the Rabaa sit-in alone at about 2,600 people.\n\nOn 12 August 2014, Human Rights Watch stated in a report based on a year-long investigation that in the 14 August dispersal of the Rabaa al-Adawiya sit-in alone, security forces, following a plan that envisioned several thousand deaths, killed a minimum of 817 people and more likely at least 1,000. Kenneth Roth, the executive director of Human Rights Watch, said that \"in Rab'a Square, Egyptian security forces carried out one of the world's largest killings of demonstrators in a single day in recent history\" and that \"this wasn't merely a case of excessive force or poor training. It was a violent crackdown planned at the highest levels of the Egyptian government\".\n\nMany deaths were also reported in Giza. Workers of al-Iman mosque state the ministry \"won't acknowledge\" in their official death toll tally over 200 charred bodies that had been moved to the mosque from a protest camp nearby. At al-Iman mosque in Nasr City the next day, hundreds of bodies were still on the floor of a makeshift morgue and wrapped in shrouds and kept cool with blocks of ice, some bodies also bore gunshot wounds and many were charred beyond recognition.\n\nAmong the dead was the daughter of Mohamed el-Beltagy, a prominent Muslim Brotherhood member.\n\nDuring the dispersal, journalists covering the event were trapped. Four of them were killed, while others were injured or detained. According to the Committee to Protect Journalists, it was the deadliest day for journalists in Egypt since the organization began keeping records in 1992. Veteran Sky News camera operator Michael \"Mick\" Deane, 61, was killed. Deane was an experienced journalist who had previously worked for CNN before working for Sky News for 15 years. Photos of Deane's body showed that he was wearing a helmet that clearly identified him as a journalist. The CPJ said Deane was the 1000th journalist it had confirmed killed worldwide. Egyptian journalist Habiba Ahmed Abd Elaziz, 26, worked for Gulf News publication \"XPRESS newspaper,\" was shot and killed. Egyptian reporter Ahmed Abdel Gawad, who was with the \"Al-Akhbar\" state-run newspaper and was an editorial manager for the Muslim Brotherhood television satellite channel Misr 25, was shot in the back and killed. Rassd News Network (RNN) photojournalist Mosab El-Shami was also killed. Among the journalists most seriously injured were \"Al-Watan\" editor Tariq Abbas, who was shot in the face, and \"Al-Masry Al-Youm\" photojournalist Alaa al-Qamhawy, who was shot in the foot. Among the detained journalists were Al-Jazeera journalist Abdullah al-Shami and Al Jazeera Media Network's \"Mubasher Misr\" photographers Emad Eddin Al-Sayed and Abdulrahman Al-Mowahhed-Bellah, and Freedom and Justice Party (Egypt) (Al-Hurrya wa Al-Adala) / Misr 25 journalist Radwa Al-Selawi. Previously during the 2013 political violence in Egypt, photojournalist Ahmed Assem el-Senousy was killed on 8 July 2013 as a result of sniper fire, while covering a protest. In total, five journalists were killed since political violence erupted after the military coup in 2013.\n\nEgypt's State Information Service released a statement on 17 August critical of news coverage from foreign journalists: \"Media coverage has steered away from objectivity and neutrality which has led to a distorted image that is very far from the facts... Egypt is feeling severe bitterness towards some western media coverage that is biased to the Muslim Brotherhood and ignores shedding light on violent and terror acts that are perpetrated by this group.\"\n\nThe United Nations said about the sit-in dispersal that there had been \"serious violations of human rights law\", including the killing of journalists, after UNESCO's Director-General Irina Bokova had already condemned the killing earlier of journalist el-Senousy in July.\nThe International Press Institute demanded that Egypt be held responsible for violations of journalists' rights and the Egyptian military's targeting of the press corps.\n\nThe Egyptian National Council for Human Rights's investigation blamed both the police and protestors for the incident. The investigation mainly blamed the police for using excessive force, and protestors for being armed. The NCHR blamed security forces for using excessive gunfire and failing to protect peaceful protestors during the crackdown on the sit-in killing hundreds. According to the report, gunmen inside the sit-in shot fire at police officers, provoking a violent response from police and escalating the violence.\n\nMostafa Hegazy, a spokesperson for Egypt's interim government, said: \"We're not into the effort of dissolving anyone – or preventing anyone from being active in the public domain, but we're trying to make sure that everyone is legalised according to what the Egyptian law says...\" He added that the country was facing a war waged by \"terrorist forces.\" Interim Vice President Mohamed ElBaradei resigned in protest at the crackdown saying his conscience was troubled over the loss of life \"particularly as I believe it could have been avoided. It has become too difficult to continue bearing responsibility for decisions I do not agree with and whose consequences I fear.\" He added that the \"state of polarisation and grave division... the social fabric is threatened as violence breeds violence.\" He was then charged by a Cairo court with \"breaching national trust;\" the charge of treason could carry a 25,910EGP (US$1,430) fine if convicted. It followed a complaint that his resignation gives the international community a false impression of unity of the state as it \"contradicts reality.\" However, after his resignation he left the country for Vienna. Interim Prime Minister Hazem el-Beblawi defended the state's reactions and praised the security forces saying that \"we found that matters had reached a point that no self respecting state could accept...the spread of anarchy and attacks on hospitals and police stations.\" He also recommended the dissolution of the Muslim Brotherhood. He further noted that Egypt was headed in the \"right direction\" and that he did \"not fear civil war.\" In reaction to consideration of cutting aid funds from the U.S. and the EU, he defiantly said that it would be \"a bad sign\" in cutting of aid, but that while that would \"badly affect the military for some time,\" Egypt would survive as \"let's not forget that Egypt went with the Russian military for support and we survived. So, there is no end to life. You can live with different circumstances.\" It also follows Saudi Arabia's promise to fill in the aid vacuum.\n\nOn 17 August, presidential advisor Mostafa Hegazy said: \"We are facing a war launched by extremist forces escalating every day to a terrorist war. Forces of extremism intend to cripple our journey towards pure bright future, aiming and willing to bring to the whole state into total failure.\" Foreign Minister Nabil Fahmy condemned suggestion of cutting aid to Egypt and added that the government would not abandon its efforts to restore order \"“We keep hearing if Egypt doesn’t do this or doesn’t do that, then aid will be stopped here or will be stopped there. If one side is revising aid they are giving, we are revising aid we receive as well.\" He also said in light of international criticism of the move: \"The attempts to internationalize the discussions about this event is something that Egypt rejects. I ask the foreign ministry to review the foreign aid of the past and to see if those aids are used in an optimal way.\" In the wake of continued protests and violence, army chief Abdel Fattah el-Sisi said that he would no longer restrain his forces from confronting \"attackers who want to destroy Egypt.\" He added:Our self-restraint will not continue. We will not accept any more attacks. We will meet with full force. Attackers want to destroy Egypt. Whoever imagines violence will make the state and Egyptians kneel must reconsider; we will never be silent in the face of the destruction of the country. [There is] room for everyone [and the security services would not] conspire [to take power]. The will of the Egyptian people is free, their will is free, they can choose whoever they want to rule them, and we are the guardians of this will. The army and the police right now are the guardians of the will of the people with regard to choosing who their leaders will be. I said previously that Egyptians if they want to change the world, they are capable of that, and I tell the Egyptian people now that if you want to build Egypt and its future, you will and you can, and you can make it 'Egypt the mother of all nations' Egypt will be as big as the world itself, with God's will.\n\nEgyptian state television stated that the protest camps had been cleared \"in a highly civilised way,\" while the interim government released a statement praising the \"brave\" security forces and blaming armed protesters present in the sit-in for the loss of life. The government also called the raids necessary and said police had confiscated guns and other weapons from the camps. The government renewed its promise to pursue an army-backed political transition plan in \"a way that strives not to exclude any party\". Egyptian Ambassador to the UK Ashraf el-Kholy defended the dispersal and blamed the Muslim Brotherhood for causing the difficulties, saying: \"Of course they did nothing but return fire. If you have somebody firing at you then you have to respond.\" Party spokesman Mona al-Qazzaz said:This is not a government, this is not a regime, this is a mafia...They failed at every single democratic process, and they came on the back of the tanks as leaders...This is an illegitimate mafia that has hijacked the power of Egypt...They would have to pay the price of their crimes against humanity. They are the illegal people, we have won at every single democratic process and they have lost, and the only way for them to be back in the political arena is through the power of the bullets and tanks.\n\nGrand Imam Ahmed el-Tayeb called for \"restraint\", saying Al-Azhar is committed to seeking a political solution to the situation. He also urged all political factions to respond to the national reconciliation efforts and said that he had no prior knowledge of the crackdown efforts. The Coptic Church condemned the attacks on its churches and called on the army to restore order. El-Tayeb and el-Baradei were among other advocated of the ouster of Morsi who later were seen to express at least a modicum of sympathy for the protesters due to the heavy-handed nature of the dispersal. The al-Nour Party called on protestors to exhibit restraint, but said the dispersals would further complicate the political process. The April 6 Youth Movement blamed \"the army, interior ministry and the Muslim Brotherhood\" for the violence. There were also reactions on social media. The New Wafd Party said it was the government's duty to the sit-ins since the mandate to fight violence and terrorism on 26 July. It added that while the right of peaceful protest and freedom of expression is guaranteed, the protesters at both squares were not peaceful protesters and were hiding weapons; it further accused the Muslim Brotherhood of being responsible for the unrest in the country with its allegedly inciting speeches, defiance of the state and disrespect of the will of what they suggested was a majority of the people and of the army that deepened the polarisation. Former presidential candidate Amr Moussa said that \"the whole Egyptian society should stand against any attempt to raise strife on the current incidents.\" The founder of the Free Egyptians Party Naguib Sawiris said: \"Decision to disperse MB sit-ins was crucial\" and that no one accepts sit-ins that block the roads and hinder economic development. Popular Current leader and former presidential candidate Hamdeen Sabahi said: \"We support people, army, police against terrorism\" and wrote on Twitter, \"We will support our people, army and police against the terrorism of those who monopolized the people's will.\" Former presidential candidate Abdel Moneim Aboul Fotouh added that was in touch with senior state officials and had asked them to take the necessary decision to stop the bloodshed immediately as it could drag the country into a wave of violence and chaos. The Dawaa Salafya called on the cabinet to resign and issued a statement that condemned the violent clashes and warned against dragging the country into mobilisation of both sides, which would negatively affect social cohesion. The foreign ministry also formed a working group of senior officials to follow up on foreign reactions to the crisis and would supply Egyptian embassies with the requisite details and follow up on foreign media coverage of the events, according to the interior ministry.\n\nThe Cairo Institute for Human Rights Studies condemned the apparent use of excessive force and lethal violence by Egyptian security forces when dispersing the sit-in of protestors at Rabaa al-Adawiya and Nahda squares. In a statement, the institute said \"The action left hundreds dead and thousands seriously injured, as well as dozens of bodies torched in still unexplained circumstances. We believe the security apparatus could have avoided this human tragedy if it had complied with international rules and standards for the dispersal of assemblies. Moreover, in the past weeks, the security authorities have failed to do their duty to take the necessary legal measures to protect public security and citizens, particularly residents and passersby in the aforementioned two areas\"\n\nIn October 2013, Egyptian Kung-Fu gold medalist Mohamed Youssef was recalled from Russia and given a one-year suspension from all national and international competitions for wearing a T-shirt containing the Rabia sign. In November 2013, Al-Ahly's Ahmed Abd El-Zaher was deprived of his Champions League win bonus, suspended and put up for sale in the January transfer window for a gesture in support of Morsi. On 5 December 2013, the Egyptian Football Association took sanctions a step further, announcing that Abd El-Zaher has been banned from representing Egypt for one year in addition to a 3-month local ban.\n\nOn 10 December, thirteen Egyptian and international human rights organizations urged Cairo's interim authorities to probe the violence during the sit-in dispersal in the capital on 14 August. The joint call issued by organizations that included Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights, said an investigation must be launched into the killing of \"up to 1,000 people by security forces\" almost four months ago when they dispersed sit-ins by supporters of deposed president Mohamed Morsi. \"There can be no hope for the rule of law and political stability in Egypt, much less some modicum of justice for victims, without accountability for what may be the single biggest incident of mass killing in Egypt's recent history,\" said Gasser Abdel-Razak, associate director at the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights. \"As a first step toward accountability, the government should establish an effective independent fact-finding committee to investigate responsibility throughout the chain of command for the unlawful killings,\" the rights groups said. They said that on 14 August a \"small minority of protesters used firearms... but the police responded excessively by shooting recklessly, going far beyond what is permitted under international law.\" \"After the unprecedented levels of violence and casualties seen since the ousting of Mohamed Morsi, investigations must provide real answers and cannot be another whitewash of the security forces' record,\" Hassiba Hadj Sahraoui of Amnesty International said in the statement. \"Egypt's authorities cannot deal with the carnage through PR in world's capitals, rewriting events and locking up Morsi's supporters.\" The groups also said the probe should determine whether there is any evidence of a policy to kill protesters or commit other serious crimes.\n\n\nThe Nordic countries also advised against travel to Egypt as tour operators began cancelling trips to the country and bringing back those already in the country.\n\nHundreds of people protested in favor of the Brotherhood and Morsi in Kuwait and chanted slogans against then-general Abdel-Fattah el-Sisi, while an unnamed cleric called on Kuwaitis to protest after Friday prayers outside of the U.S. embassy. Other protests were held in Tel Aviv and Gaza, as well as Turkey, Tunisia and Jordan. In Ankara, about 300 protesters gathered outside the Egyptian embassy, then went to the U.S. embassy and chanted anti-U.S. slogans and held up pictures of Morsi. In Vienna, about 500 demonstrators, most of them Egyptians, gathered in St. Stephens Square, chanting Morsi's name. Organiser Ali Ibrahim of the Egyptian Community in Austria said that the protest was not in support of Morsi but \"for democracy and the protection of freedom.\" After Friday prayers, thousands of protesters gathered in several cities across Indonesia, calling for an end to any violence in Egypt. At a sit-in near the Egyptian embassy in Algiers, dozens of Egyptians, mostly students, protested against violence and denounced the events as \"against the Egyptian people.\"\n\nThe \"New York Times\" called the dispersal the \"clearest sign yet that the old Egyptian police state was re-emerging\" and added that its reporters saw no evidence of weapon stockpiles in the protest camps. Al Jazeera featured an article entitled \"The Egyptian coup and the lessons of Turkey\" with the sub-heading that military was backtracking on the democracy that Egyptians had fought for. International commentators asked if this could lead Egypt into a civil war or even make the country a failed state. Al Jazeera suggested that the Egypt conflict divided the U.S. and its other \"longtime\" regional partners over their stance on the issue. Qatari-owned Al Jazeera also singled out Qatar as an exception to Gulf Arab reactions in a supportive stance to the ones who ousted Morsi. It also highlighted the Gulf Arab reversion for the Muslim Brotherhood as a potential destabiliser to its own regimes. Bloomberg suggested the U.S. was in bind as its regional allies were supporting different sides in Egypt. It also drew parallels for foreign support for Syrian rebels amongst its allies, yet different sides in the Egyptian conflict. It quoted Brian Katulis, a foreign policy analyst at the Center for American Progress, who said: \"What we’re seeing in the Middle East is a competition for power and influence among the key states that are wealthier and have more resources. What Qatar and Turkey say is almost a 180-degree opposite of what the Emirates and the Saudis are saying publicly.\"\n\nEgyptian shares fell the most in two months. The benchmark EGX 30 Index slumped 3.9 percent, the most since 12 June to 5,334.55 at the 1:30 p.m. close in Cairo. About 332 million Egyptian pounds ($48 million) of shares traded, compared with a one-year daily average of 391 million pounds. Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE, the country’s biggest publicly traded lender, led a list of 29 decliners with a 5.4 percent dive.\n\n\nAs a result of the dispersal of the sit-ins, the Rabia sign (or R4BIA as some supporters call it) emerged widely among the pro-Morsi and pro-Brotherhood masses as a part of a protest campaign against the post-Morsi governmental authorities. The origin of the sign is unclear. It is said to have been invented by Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, then Prime Minister of Turkey. Erdoğan and his supporters, who are supportive of the Muslim Brotherhood and of Morsi, have a tendency to perform a common gesture for the number four.\n\n"}
{"id": "8868378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8868378", "title": "Axenic", "text": "Axenic\n\nIn biology, axenic describes the state of a culture in which only a single species, variety, or strain of organism is present and entirely free of all other contaminating organisms. The earliest axenic cultures were of bacteria or unicellular eukaryotes, but axenic cultures of many multicellular organisms are also possible. Axenic culture is an important tool for the study of symbiotic and parasitic organisms in a controlled environment.\n\nAxenic cultures of microorganisms are typically prepared by subculture of an existing mixed culture. This may involve use of a dilution series, in which a culture is successively diluted to the point where subsamples of it contain only a few individual organisms, ideally only a single individual (in the case of an asexual species). These subcultures are allowed to grow until the identity of their constituent organisms can be ascertained. Selection of those cultures consisting solely of the desired organism produces the axenic culture. Subculture selection may also involve manually sampling the target organism from an uncontaminated growth front in an otherwise mixed culture, and using this as an inoculum source for the subculture.\n\nAxenic cultures are usually checked routinely to ensure that they remain axenic. One standard approach with microorganisms is to spread a sample of the culture onto an agar plate, and to incubate this for a fixed period of time. The agar should be an enriched medium that will support the growth of common \"contaminating\" organisms. Such \"contaminating\" organisms will grow on the plate during this period, identifying cultures that are no longer axenic.\n\nAs axenic cultures are derived from very few organisms, or even a single individual, they are useful because the organisms present within them share a relatively narrow gene pool. In the case of an asexual species derived from a single individual, the resulting culture should consist of identical organisms (though processes such as mutation and horizontal gene transfer may introduce a degree of variability). Consequently, they will generally respond in a more uniform and reproducible fashion, simplifying the interpretation of experiments.\n\nThe axenic culture of some pathogens is complicated because they normally thrive within host tissues which exhibit properties that are difficult to replicate \"in vitro\". This is especially true in the case of intracellular pathogens. However, careful replication of key features of the host environment can resolve these difficulties (e.g. host metabolites, dissolved oxygen), such as with the Q fever pathogen, \"Coxiella burnetii\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14043942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14043942", "title": "Bert Batawang", "text": "Bert Batawang\n\nBertoldo Batawang, Jr. (born October 26, 1971 in Cebu City, Cebu, Philippines), more commonly known as Bert Batawang, is a Filipino professional boxer.\n\nBatawang began his professional career in 1990, winning against Lolong Quiban by a first-round technical knockout. Batawang suffered multiple losses early in his career, and in 1995, he temporarily retired from the sport after losing a ten-round decision to future WBC Light Flyweight World Champion, Yo-Sam Choi (7-0) of South Korea.\n\nAfter five years away from the sport, Batawang made his ring return in 2000, fighting against unheralded Randy Narbay, whom he defeated by knockout (KO) in six rounds. He later went on to win the Philippines Boxing Federation (PBF) Light Flyweight title one year later, defeating Flash Villacura who held the title at the time. Two bouts later, Batawang lost a 12-round decision to future IBF Minimumweight World Champion, Muhammad Rachman of Indonesia. After losing to Rachman, Batawang defended his PBF Light Flyweight title a total of five times before winning the Philippines Games & Amusement Board (GAB) version of the title, after a failed bid against Wyndel Janiola.\n\nA year later, he vied for the OPBF Light Flyweight title, then held by Shingo Yamaguchi of Japan. Batawang lost the fight by split decision (SD), by scores of 117-113, 116-113 for Yamaguchi, and a scorecard of 115-113 for Batawang. Following this bout, Batawang managed to defeat Sithembile Kibiti of South Africa, winning the fight by KO in seven rounds, and also winning the then vacant WBA Pan African Light Flyweight title.\n\nAfter winning eight of his next nine fights, Batawang vied for his first world title against the then IBF Light Flyweight World Champion, Ulises Solís of Mexico. On December 15, 2007, in Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico, Batawang failed in his bid for the IBF crown, losing to Solís by technical knockout (TKO) in the ninth round of the bout. The champion dismantled Batawang since the start of the fight, until the referee finally stopped the fight. \"Batawang would later say after the fight that he was hit by Solis with a hard left over his right rib cage in the 5th round that practically immobilized him in the remainder of the contest\".\n\nBatawang won his next three fights after suffering the huge setback against Solís, also winning the then vacant WBO Oriental Light Flyweight title in the process after defeating Samransak Singmanassak of Thailand. In his first defense of the WBO Oriental title, he lost to fellow Filipino, Edren Dapudong by TKO in seven rounds. After losing to Dapudong, Batawang traveled to Linyi, China, fighting Jack Amisa of Indonesia. \"The Ninja\" used his stealth and wit to defeat the Indonesian by knockout in the fifth round of the bout, winning the then vacant WBO Asia Pacific Light Flyweight title.\n\nHe fought Ulises Solis on March 27, 2010 for the IBF Light Flyweight Title Eliminator. The fight was held at the Plaza Pueblo Antiguo in Mexico. The winner of the rematch between Batawang and Solis, which was originally scheduled for March 6, will become the mandatory challenger for IBF light flyweight titlist Carlos Tamara, who defeated former champion Brian Viloria in January by TKO.\n\nIn the first three rounds the bout was fairly even. However, in the next rounds, Solis’ power and Batawang’s age began to tell: Batawang was floored in the 4th round and the Mexican fighter hammered him during the 5th round. The Filipino veteran boxer remained on his stool and was forced to retire at the beginning of the sixth round.\n\nWith the win Solis improved to 30-2-2 with 21 knockouts while Batawang dropped to 45-15-3 with 17 knockouts.\n"}
{"id": "51087060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51087060", "title": "Bikanta", "text": "Bikanta\n\nBikanta is a startup biotech company developing of clinical products that focus on detection of cancer by inserting fluorescent nanodiamonds. \n\nThe company was founded in 2013 and is based in Berkeley, California. Bikanta raised $120k in seed funding in 2014. In 2014, Bikanta participated in the Y Combinator program and was one of four companies backed by Y Combinator.\n\n"}
{"id": "17104799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17104799", "title": "Computational criminology", "text": "Computational criminology\n\nComputational criminology is an interdisciplinary field which uses computing science methods to formally define criminology concepts, improve our understanding of complex phenomena, and generate solutions for related problems.\n\nComputing science methods being used include:\n\nComputational criminology is interdisciplinary in the sense that both criminologists and computing scientists work together to ensure that computational models properly match their theoretical and real-world counterparts. Areas of criminology for which computational approaches are being used include:\n\nComputational forensics (CF) is a quantitative approach to the methodology of the forensic sciences. It involves computer-based modeling, computer simulation, analysis, and recognition in studying and solving problems posed in various forensic disciplines. CF integrates expertise from computational science and forensic sciences.\n\nA broad range of objects, substances and processes are investigated, which are mainly based on pattern evidence, such as toolmarks, fingerprints, shoeprints, documents etc., but also physiological and behavioral patterns, DNA, digital evidence and crime scenes.\n\nComputational methods find a place in the forensic sciences in several ways, as for example:\n\nAlgorithms implemented are from the fields of signal and image processing, computer vision, computer graphics, data visualization, statistical pattern recognition, data mining, machine learning, and robotics.\n\nComputer forensics (also referred to as \"digital forensics\" or \"forensic information technology\") is one specific discipline that could use computational science to study digital evidence. Computational Forensics examines diverse types of evidence.\n\nForensic animation is a branch of forensic science in which audio-visual reconstructions of incidents or accidents are created to aid investigators. Examples include the use of computer animation, stills, and other audio visual aids. Application of computer animation in courtrooms today is becoming more popular.\n\nThe first use of forensic animation was in \"Connors v. United States\", both sides used computer re-creations and animations in a case surrounding the crash of Delta Flight 191 on August 2, 1985. The crash resulted in the deaths of 137 people and extensive property damage. In the resulting lawsuit a method was required to explain complicated information and situations to the jury. As part of the plaintiff presentation, a 45-minute computer generated presentation was created to explain the intricacies of the evidence and thus began forensic animation.\n\nThe first reported use of computer animation in a U.S. criminal trial was in the 1991 Marin County, CA homicide trial of James Mitchell (of the porno-businessman Mitchell Brothers) The prosecution used the animation to explain the complex details of the shooting incident to the jury. It showed the positions of James Mitchell, Artie Mitchell (the victim), the bullet impact points, and the path taken by bullets as they entered Artie's body. The animation was admitted, over objection by the defense, and the case resulted in a conviction. The use of the animation was upheld on appeal and the success of the forensic animation led to its use in many other trials. In India Prof. T D Dogra at AIIMS New Delhi in 2008 used animation to explain the court of law and investigating agencies first time in two important cases of firearm injuries,case of Murder and Terrorist encounter killings(Batla house encounter case).\n\n"}
{"id": "25182132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25182132", "title": "Coroners and Justice Act 2009", "text": "Coroners and Justice Act 2009\n\nThe Coroners and Justice Act 2009 (c. 25) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It changed the law on coroners and criminal justice in England and Wales.\n\nAmong its provisions are:\n\nThe Act makes it illegal to own any picture depicting under-18s participating in sexual activities, or depictions of sexual activity in the presence of someone under 18. The law has been condemned by a coalition of graphic artists, publishers and MPs, fearing it will criminalise graphic novels such as \"Lost Girls\" and \"Watchmen\". These sections came into effect on 6 April 2010.\n\nThe Act contains measures to reform the coroner system. According to the Institute of Legal Executives, \"There is provision, carefully circumscribed, for the establishment of a judicial inquiry under the 2005 Inquiries Act to take the place of an inquest, where there is highly sensitive evidence (typically intercept) and it would not be possible to have an Article 2 compliant inquest. These provisions will be used in rare cases only.\"\n\nThe most controversial aspect of the bill are the provisions regarding secret inquests. The provisions had previously been mulled as part of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008, though ultimately they were dropped before the Counter-Terrorism Bill was finalised. Last-minute concessions, as the Coroners and Justice Bill passed through Parliament, included giving the Lord Chief Justice the power to veto any requests for private inquests and also the power to decide who the judge is.\n\nThe Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 amended Part 3A of the Public Order Act 1986 to extend hate crime legislation to cover \"hatred against a group of persons defined by reference to sexual orientation (whether towards persons of the same sex, the opposite sex or both)\".\n\nTo prevent that Act being used to inhibit freedom of speech on the subject of homosexuality, the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act also inserted a new section 29JA, entitled \"Protection of freedom of expression (sexual orientation)\" but sometimes known as the Waddington Amendment (after Lord Waddington who introduced it). It reads:\n\nDuring debate on the Coroners and Justice Bill the Government unsuccessfully attempted to repeal section 29JA. Clause 61 (which would have repealed section 29JA) was introduced into Parliament by Jack Straw on 14 January 2009. The clause was voted down by the House of Lords, reinstated by the House of Commons, and voted down again by the Lords before the Commons finally conceded that section 29JA could remain.\n\nIn December 2012, owners of a family patio and paving business in Bedford were successfully prosecuted under the provision criminalising the holding of someone in slavery or servitude, or requiring them to perform forced or compulsory labour, between 2010 and 2011. The investigation of forced labour began after the body of one of the family's workers was discovered in 2008. The family found using vulnerable mentally ill, alcoholic, and homeless men for forced labour very profitable, holding some men in servitude for decades and paying them as little as £5 a day (the National Minimum Wage at the time was £5.80 per hour for an adult aged 21 or over).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47171641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47171641", "title": "Crosbie Garstin", "text": "Crosbie Garstin\n\nCrosbie Garstin (1887 – 19 April 1930) was a poet, best-selling novelist and the eldest son of the Newlyn School painter Norman Garstin. He is said to have been \"untameable as a child\", and to have \"died in mysterious circumstances\" after a boating accident in the Salcombe estuary. He is known for the Penhale trilogy, a novel based in 18th-century Cornwall.\n\nCrosbie was born in Mount Vernon, Newlyn, Cornwall to Norman Garstin and Louisa ‘Dochie’ née Jones. He was the eldest of three children; Denys (later Denis) (1890 – 1918) and Alethea (1894 – 1978). He was educated at Brandon House, Cheltenham, Elstow School, Bedford and in Germany. He was head-boy of his school due to sporting prowess in rugby union and swimming.\n\nAs a young man he travelled and worked as a bronco buster in Montana, United States and as a lumberjack in Canada. He also travelled to China, Hawaii, Japan and Morocco. On returning home his father, fed-up with Crosbie's inability to get suitable qualifications and hold down a job, sent him to South Africa. From 1912, he ran a cattle ranch in Bechuanaland, and acted as a bush ranger to the Tati Concessions. With the outbreak of World War I he came back to Britain and in October 1914 joined B Squadron of the King Edward's Light Horse as a private. The cavalry regiment, which was open to colonials, was initially based in Watford and in the following spring, Bishop's Stortford. The regiment left for France on 21 April 1915 and Garstin was promoted to lance corporal shortly before leaving. He was commissioned on the battlefield as a 2nd lieutenant on 14 September 1915, and joined C Squadron, which was attached to the 47th (London) Division at Nœux-les-Mines and was involved in the Battle of Loos and on the Italian Front. In 1916, he was posted to Dublin as an Intelligence Officer during the rebellion there. As well as writing poetry he made contributions to Punch (magazine) which were well received.\n\nGarstin disappeared when returning from a party to a friend's yacht \"Osprey\" in the Salcombe estuary on 19 April 1930. The rowing boat capsized and his body was never found despite Garstin being a strong swimmer and other two occupants of the boat surviving. He left an estate of gross value £3,424, and £1,549 net. His widow, Lillian (née Barkworth) was mayor of Penzance in 1962–63.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3317874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3317874", "title": "Cycle of violence", "text": "Cycle of violence\n\nThe term cycle of violence refers to repeated and dangerous acts of violence as a cyclical pattern, associated with high emotions and doctrines of retribution or revenge. The pattern, or cycle, repeats and can happen many times during a relationship. Each phase may last a different length of time, and over time the level of violence may increase. The phrase has been increasingly widespread since first popularised in the 1970s.\n\nIt often refers to violent behavior learned as a child, and then repeated as an adult, therefore continuing on in a perceived cycle.\n\nA cycle of abuse generally follows the following pattern: \n\nA cyclical nature of domestic violence is most prevalent in intimate terrorism (IT), which involve a pattern of ongoing control using emotional, physical and other forms of domestic violence and is what generally leads victims, who are most often women, to women's shelters. It is what was traditionally the definition of domestic violence and is generally illustrated with the \"Power and Control Wheel\" to illustrate the different and inter-related forms of abuse. Intimate terrorism is different from situational couple violence, which are isolated incidents of varying degrees of intensity.\n\nA general, intricate and complicated cycle of traumatic violence and healing map was developed by Olga Botcharova when she worked at the Center for International Studies.\n\nIntergenerational cycles of violence occur when violence is passed from parent to child, or sibling to sibling.\n\nChildren exposed to domestic violence are likely to develop behavioral problems, such as regressing, exhibiting out of control behavior, and imitating behaviors. Children may think that violence is an acceptable behavior of intimate relationships and become either the abused or the abuser. Recent research has questioned whether certain effects of domestic violence exposure on children are moderated and/or mediated by maternal psychological response such as maternal post-traumatic stress disorder, dissociation, and related biological markers.\n\nAn estimated 1/5 to 1/3 of teenagers subject to viewing domestic violence situations experience teen dating violence, regularly abusing or being abused by their partners verbally, mentally, emotionally, sexually and/or physically. Thirty to 50% of dating relationships can exhibit the same cycle of escalating violence in their marital relationships.\n\nPhysical punishment of children has also been linked to later domestic violence. Family violence researcher Murray A. Straus believes that disciplinary spanking forms \"the most prevalent and important form of violence in American families\", whose effects contribute to several major societal problems, including later assaults on spouses.\n\nArab philosopher Ibn Khaldun in 1377 identified a cycle of violence in which successive dynasties take control of a state and establish asabiyyah or social cohesion, enabling them to expand to the limit. Excess 'pomp' causes the dynasty then to stagnate, become sedentary and collapse, giving way to conquest by a new, more ruthless dynasty. This cycle plays out over the course of three generations.\n\nAccording to John J. Mearsheimer the cycle of violence between nations will continue indefinitely because the Great powers fear each other, thus compete for power and dominance, in the belief that this will ensure safety.\n\n'Cycle of violence' is also used more generally to describe any long-term factional dispute within a nation in which tit-for-tat acts of aggression occur frequently, as for example in Argentina in the 1970s, in Lebanon and Israel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6179308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6179308", "title": "David Bright (diver)", "text": "David Bright (diver)\n\nDavid A. Bright (June 29, 1957 – July 8, 2006) was a professional wreck diver. He was the president of the Nautical Research Group, which he founded in 2003, and an avid contributor to documentaries on shipwrecks.\n\nBright was born in Niagara Falls, New York in 1957. He was on his school's swimming team and one of his coaches asked if he would be interested in taking scuba lessons. He became a certified scuba diver at 13 years of age and started diving around the New York and Canadian areas. He received two bachelor's degrees in biology and German, and two years later got a masters in Physiology, all from Penn State.\n\nAfter working for pharmaceutical companies, including Pfizer, Bright returned to diving full-time. He began searching famous wrecks like , , , and . His findings helped him get into many documentaries about shipwrecks. He was a member of the Explorers Club, the Marine Technology Society, American Academy of Underwater Sciences, North American Society for Oceanic History, Maritime Archaeological and Historical Society and the Pennsylvania State University Eberly College of Science Alumni Board of Directors.\n\nBright repeatedly dived on the SS \"Andrea Doria\" shipwreck, near Nantucket, to research the ship's demise. His first expedition to the wreck showed that the SS \"Stockholm\" had caused much more damage to the \"Dorea\" than had been originally thought. He kept diving to what many considered the Mount Everest of diving, even after 13 other divers died exploring the wreck. On July 8, 2006, while diving to determine if any damage was caused to the keel of the ship, Bright suffered from decompression sickness and went into cardiac arrest. He was pronounced dead at Cape Cod Hospital.\n"}
{"id": "33345099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33345099", "title": "Death of Ahmed Jaber al-Qattan", "text": "Death of Ahmed Jaber al-Qattan\n\nAhmed Jaber Ali al-Qattan () was a 16 or 17-year-old Bahraini who died in a hospital on 6 October 2011 after reportedly being hit in the chest, abdomen and upper limb by bird pellet gunshots fired by Bahraini security forces during the Bahraini uprising (2011–present). Several human rights organizations in Bahrain believe that the use of birdshot against humans is banned under international law, while the Ministry of Interior disagrees. The Ministry of Interior stated that there was a gathering of 20 people in Abu Saiba who blocked the roads and police men intervened to disperse them as authorized. Activists, however, began a series of large protests after his funeral.\n\nAs part of a string of protests that occurred across the Arab World following the self-immolation and eventual death of Mohammed Bouazizi in Tunisia, the mostly Shia population of Bahrain took to the streets demanding greater freedoms. The move was seen as potentially destabilising to the Sunni-led regime of Bahrain, following which a brutal government crackdown led to widespread suppressions of the Shia people across many sectors, especially the medical field after the invasion of Bahrain by Gulf Cooperation Council soldiers led by Saudi Arabia. The Bahraini government also hired Pakistani mercenaries to maintain security against the protesters, however, lesser intermittent protests continued.\n\nAccording to Al Wefaq opposition party and Bahrain Centre for Human Rights al-Qattan was 16; the government put his age at 17.\n\nA number of protesters took part in a demonstration in Abu Saiba, Bahrain which started on late night of 6 October. The government's Information Affairs Authority said the area where al-Qattan was in, Abu Saiba, west of Manama, saw clashes that evening. It said youths blocked roads and set fire to rubbish bins and police fired tear gas and sound grenades when they were attacked with rocks and petrol bombs.\n\nAn anonymous witness who was protesting with Ahmed said in an interview with \"Bahrain Mirror\" (opposition online newspaper): \"We were 70 protesters and Ahmed was in the front, we were ambushed by security forces. They were standing only 10 meters away from us, they didn't use tear gas or rubber bullets, they used bird pellet gunshots directly. Ahmed was injured in the chest and another protester who was behind him injured in the abdomen. He was trying to protect protesters behind him, we ran back to hide. Ahmed ran for a short distance then fell, he called his friend \"Ahmed, hold me, I want to breathe\". Those were his last words\". He added: \"A young protester was hiding behind a building rushed to Ahmed as he fell and carried him. With other protesters we carried him through farms to avoid being chased by police. At first we didn't know what to do, so I tweeted specific people like Al Wefaq and some human rights activists. The first to respond was Yousef al-Mahafdha (member of BCHR) who contacted some medics. Medics came, but they found no pulse and requested taking Ahmed to a hospital. At Bahrain International hospital (located in Jidhafs area of the capital, and sits along Budaiya Highway) medics from the hospital attached medical instruments to Ahmed and after 15 minutes announced that he is dead and asked us to leave fast to avoid arrest. Human rights activist Yousif Al-Mahafdha was the first to announce the death of Ahmed from Bahrain international hospital.\"\n\nAfter his death, Ahmed's body was moved to Bahrain International hospital where he was initially examined. Later it was moved to Salmaniya hospital morgue for an autopsy. Ahmed's older brother was told by young male to attend at Bahrain International hospital. At the hospital, without explaining anything to his brother, Ahmed's body was taken to Salmaniya hospital morgue. For 20 minutes Ahmed's brother was stopped by security forces from getting into the morgue where Ahmed's body was. After a while he tried again, but this time a National Security Agency officer yelled at him. When Ahmed's brother explained that he's only trying to see his brother's body and security shouldn't act this way. The officer responded with \"I'm a soldier and I can do whatever I want with you right now if you don't stop attempting to get in\". Later, a policeman in civilian clothes spoke to the family. He told them that Ahmed died a natural death, his chest doesn't contain bird pellet gunshots and that his body is completely clean from any injures. Then he asked the family to bring him some of Ahmed's clothes in order to investigate the cause of his death. The family wasn't allowed to see the body until next morning when they received it.\n\nOne of the lawyers responded to the family's cries on Twitter and came along with a lawyer from Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry. Security forces allowed Al-jeshy and his companion to enter the morgue, where the Public Prosecutor announced that the direct cause of death was due to injury by bird pellet gunshots which went through Ahmed's body into his heart and caused a severe bleeding.\n\nAt first ministry of interior stated that Ahmed al-Qattan died from severe respiratory and blood flow problems after he was received in hospital without saying what caused this. In another statement the ministry stated that they're launching an investigation into the incident \"after the report of the medical examiner of the Public Prosecution attributed the death to injury\" by bird pellet gunshots, but have not described under what circumstance al-Qattan was fatally wounded. The statement said that \"legal procedures would be taken according to the results of the investigation.\" Moreover, Bahrain News Agency, an official governmental website said that Ahmed died by police birdshot.\n\nOn 8 October, two days after Ahmed's death, Nawaf Al-Awadi, the attorney general of the northern governorate stated that police did not use bird pellet gunshots while depressing protesters in Abu Saiba that night and that the gunshots found in Ahmed's body do not match those used by Ministry of Interior. Al-Awadi also stated that the investigations are still on-going to find the persons who carried the body to the hospital to investigate with them.\n\nShia activists said al-Qattan died from bird-shot pellets and distributed photos of his body in the morgue. \"(He) was shot by the security forces at close proximity during a protest with the pellet shotgun, which seems to have penetrated his heart and/or lung and caused his death,\" said Maryam Alkhawaja a human rights activist working for Bahrain Centre for Human Rights (BCHR). Al Wefaq party, the biggest shia opposition party said in a statement: \"Security forces have killed the boy Ahmed al-Qattan after shooting him with the internationally prohibited pellet shotgun (..) many people who are injured due to use of force by security forces are afraid to go to hospitals, because they might be arrested there.\"\n\nThe funeral procession was held afternoon on 7 October. Security forces sat up roadblocks to prevent people from attending the funeral, yet thousands of people attended the funeral which is thought to be one of the largest in months. The number of mourners who took part in al-Qattan's funeral was over 10,000. The funeral march moved through the villages of Shakhoora, Janusan and Karrana, with participants carrying the red and white flags of Bahrain and chanting, \"We will redeem you, Bahrain\" and \"Down with Hamad,\" a reference to King Hamad, whose family, Al Khalifa has controlled Bahrain for about 230 years. Al-Qattan was to be buried in Shakhoora, his home town.\n\nAfter the funeral hundreds of mourners marched towards Burgerland roundabout where police forces were present heavily. Police used tear gas, sound grenades and rubber bullets to disperse protesters, injuring no less than 11 protesters, according to activists. Some protesters threw stones at police. \"More injuries were expected, though the chaotic scene around a makeshift clinic near the clashes made it impossible to verify the number,\" Al Jazeera's reporter in Bahrain said. An Al Jazeera reporter said he saw four injured protesters, three of them apparently due to rubber bullets and one \"suffered a severe facial injury after being hit by a sound grenade.\" by night, clashes were over.\n\nMinistry of Interior said \"A group of vandals blocked Budaiya highway after funeral of Ahmed Jaber, which led to interference of security forces to bring situation to normal\".\n\nOn 10 October, 3 days after Ahmed's funeral, where the final mourning rituals were supposed to be held in Shakhoora, security forces blocked all the roads leading to Shakhoora to prevent people from participating in the mourning rituals. Al Jazeera reported that security forces fired tear gas and rubber bullets\non tens of protesters who were trying to start a demonstration after the end of mourning rituals and that some protesters were arrested.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3234180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3234180", "title": "Drion's pill", "text": "Drion's pill\n\nDrion's pill is a fictitious suicide pill. It was proposed by Huib Drion, a former Dutch Supreme Court judge and professor of civil law. He argued that people aged 75 or over, living alone, should have the choice of ending their lives in a humane manner. The pill was supposed to be a two-staged pill whereby firstly one pill was taken which would enable another pill to be taken a number of days after the first pill which would then be lethal, but would otherwise be non-lethal. The idea behind this is that a person could act on an impulse and a waiting period seemed sensible.\n\nSo far this has been only discussed as a theoretical proposition. No such pill exists in the Netherlands or anywhere else.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11474743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11474743", "title": "Durham Ox", "text": "Durham Ox\n\nThe Durham Ox was a steer who became famous in the early 19th century for his shape, size and weight. He was an early example of what became the Shorthorn breed of cattle, and helped establish the standards by which the breed was to be defined.\n\nThe animal was born in March 1796 and was bred by Charles Colling of Ketton Hall, Brafferton near Darlington in North-East England. Colling, together with his brother Robert, who farmed at nearby Barmpton, was one of the pioneers of the cattle-breeding movement of the late 18th and early 19th centuries. After a visit in 1784 to Robert Bakewell, a successful breeder of Longhorn cattle, Colling began using Bakewell's techniques to develop and improve the Shorthorn breed. The animal eventually known as the Durham Ox was the grandson of Colling’s original bull \"Hubbach\" or \"Hubback\", and became known as the Ketton Ox when he was exhibited in Darlington in 1799. He was painted as such at the age of five years in 1801 by George Cuit of Richmond.\n\nIn 1801 the ox was sold to John Day of Harmston, near Lincoln, for £250 (\"2010: £\" ). Day renamed him the Durham Ox and had a carriage specially made to transport him, drawn by four horses. For the next five years the ox toured with him around England and Scotland, exhibited to the public at agricultural fairs and other events. The ox proved extremely popular. For most of 1802 the Durham Ox was on show in London, where it is recorded that in one single day admission fees to see him totalled £97. \n\nA dedication accompanying a painting of the ox by John Boultbee (1753–1812) in 1802 gave details of the animal's measurements and estimated its weight as 171 stone (1,086 kg), but later estimates ran as high as 270 stone (1,715 kg), although there may be some confusion, as the stone was not a standardised weight at the time. Whilst his size and weight partially accounts for the admiration he attracted, he was also regarded as a particularly fine and well-proportioned example of his type, at a time when the concept of selective breeding for particular characteristics was just becoming established in agriculture.\n\nOn show in Oxford during February 1807, the ox damaged his hip as he was getting out of his carriage. The injury failed to heal, and on 15 April 1807 he was slaughtered. His weight after death was reported to be 189 stone (1,200 kg or 2646 lb)\n\nThe ox was painted by various artists during his lifetime and pictures of him were reproduced and sold commercially. A coloured engraving after John Boultbee's picture of 1802 sold 2,000 prints in that year alone. China and porcelain was produced, decorated with pictures of the ox, including a range of blue and white Staffordshire pottery. The impact made by the Durham Ox is reflected in the large number of British pubs named for the creature and a town Durham Ox in Victoria, Australia.\n\n\n\nRitvo, Harriet (1987). \"The animal estate: The English and other creatures in the Victorian age.\" Cambridge MA and London: Harvard University Press.\n"}
{"id": "1432257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1432257", "title": "Dwight Frye", "text": "Dwight Frye\n\nDwight Iliff Frye (born Fry; February 22, 1899 – November 7, 1943) was an American stage and screen actor. He is best known for his neurotic, murderous villains in several classic Universal horror films, such as Renfield in \"Dracula\" (1931) and Fritz in \"Frankenstein\" (1931).\n\nFrye was born in Salina, Kansas and studied for a career in music and first appeared as a concert pianist. In the 1920s, he made his name as a stage actor, often in comedies. In 1924, he played the Son in a production of Luigi Pirandello's \"Six Characters in Search of an Author\".\n\nWhile he had a few minor roles in silent pictures, with the coming of sound he soon became known for playing villains. Nicknamed \"The Man with the Thousand-Watt Stare\" and \"The Man of a Thousand Deaths\", he specialized in the portrayal of mentally unbalanced characters, including his signature role, the madman Renfield in Tod Browning's 1931 version of \"Dracula\". \n\nLater that same year, he played the hunchbacked assistant Fritz in \"Frankenstein\". Also in 1931, Frye portrayed Wilmer Cook (the \"gunsel\") in the first film version of Dashiell Hammett's \"The Maltese Falcon\". He had a featured role in the horror film \"The Vampire Bat\" (1933) in which he played Herman, a half-wit suspected of being a killer. He had memorable roles in \"The Invisible Man\" (1933) as a reporter, and in \"The Crime of Dr. Crespi\" (1935).\n\nIn \"Bride of Frankenstein\" (1935), he played Karl. The part was originally much more substantive; many of Frye's additional scenes were part of a subplot but were cut to shorten the running time and appease the censors. One of the deleted scenes was that of Karl killing a Burgomaster, portrayed by E. E. Clive. Nothing remains of these scenes except still photographs included in a Universal Studios DVD release of the film. He played similar characters in \"The Ghost of Frankenstein\" (1942) and \"Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man\" (1943); another appearance in \"Son of Frankenstein\" (1939) was deleted prior to release. Also in the 1930s, he appeared in two films featuring James Cagney: \"The Doorway to Hell\" (1930) (as a hit man) and \"Something To Sing About\" (1937) as a fussy hairdresser.\n\nDuring the early 1940s, Frye alternated between film roles and appearing on stage in a variety of productions ranging from comedies to musicals, as well as appearing in a stage version of \"Dracula\". During World War II, he made a contribution to the war effort by working nights as a tool designer for Lockheed Aircraft.\n\nOn November 7, 1943, Frye died of a heart attack while travelling by bus in Hollywood, a few days before he was scheduled to begin filming the biopic \"Wilson\". He is interred in Glendale's Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Glendale.\n\nAmerican rock band Alice Cooper wrote and recorded a tribute track to Dwight Frye entitled \"The Ballad of Dwight Fry\" (purposefully dropping the last \"e\") that was included on their 1971 LP \"Love It to Death\". \n\nOn stage, this song would be portrayed with Cooper in a straitjacket trying to escape, and finally breaking free at the end of the song to strangle the nurse with the ties.\n\n"}
{"id": "1464803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1464803", "title": "Ebirah", "text": "Ebirah\n\nIn \"Ebirah, Horror of the Deep\", a terrorist organization called the Red Bamboo had set up a base of operations on Letchi Island. The giant lobster Ebirah was successfully used to destroy any ship that came too close to the island. The Red Bamboo ships used a special extract from the island’s fruit to protect themselves from Ebirah. When a small group of people stranded on the island saw the mutant dinosaur Godzilla sleeping in a cave, they woke it so it could fight Ebirah. Godzilla easily won and injured the crustacean with its atomic ray. The day after, a Red Bamboo ship appeared, but they unknowingly used a placebo and not the real fruit extract. Ebirah attacked and tore the ship apart. Godzilla reappeared, but this time, Godzilla pulled off Ebirah’s claws. The wounded Ebirah then fled.\n\nEbirah was not seen again until it appeared on Monster Island in Ichiro’s dreams in \"All Monsters Attack\". Its appearance in this film is simply stock footage utilized from \"Ebirah, Horror of the Deep\". Ebirah was originally going to appear in \"Destroy All Monsters,\" but did not make it to the final draft.\n\nShowa Ebirah is 50 meters (164 feet) tall and weighs 23,000 metric tons (25,353 short tons).\n\nIn the Millennium era, Ebirah makes an appearance in \"\" as one of the many controlled monsters of the , a race of extraterrestrial beings. It destroys a factory near Tokyo, and the military forces are sent to destroy it, but are outmatched by the immense crustacean. Instead, the mutant soldiers are called to stop the monster. The mutants successfully defeat Ebirah and are about to kill it, when it disappears in a flash of light. The Xiliens arrive and say that they destroyed the monsters to save Earth. However, it is soon found out that the monsters were in fact controlled by the Xiliens all along.\n\nThe Gotengo then frees Godzilla from the Antarctic so it can fight the controlled monsters. The plan is a success and Godzilla successfully defeats all of the monsters. When it arrives in Tokyo Bay, it faces Ebirah and the Smog Monster Hedorah, the latter of whom was not controlled by the Xilians, simply being at the wrong place at the wrong time. However, they are no match for Godzilla, who blasts them out of the water with its atomic ray and the duo crash into a building, where Ebirah's claw stabs Hedorah's eye. With another blast, Godzilla destroys them both.\n\nFinal Wars Ebirah is 30 meters (98 feet) tall, 100 meters (328 feet) long, and weighs 50,000 metric tons (55,115 short tons).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "605144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=605144", "title": "Ernesto Cesàro", "text": "Ernesto Cesàro\n\nErnesto Cesàro (12 March 1859 – 12 September 1906) was an Italian mathematician who worked in the field of differential geometry. He wrote a book, \"Lezione di geometria intrinseca\" (Naples, 1890), on this topic, in which he also describes fractal, spacefilling curves, partly covered by the larger class of de Rham curves, but are still known today in his honor as Cesàro curves. He is known also for his 'averaging' method for the 'Cesàro-summation' of divergent series, known as the Cesàro mean.\n\nAfter a rather disappointing start of his academic career and a journey through Europe - with the most important stop at Liege, where his older brother was teaching mineralogy at the local university - Ernesto Cesàro graduated from the University of Rome in 1887, while he was already part of the Royal Science Society of Belgium for his numerous works that he had already published.\n\nThe following year, he got a mathematics chair at the University of Palermo, which he kept until 1891. He settled in Rome, where he stayed as a professor at the Sapienza University until his accidental death, while trying to rescue his youngest son Manlio from drowning.\n\nCesàro's main contributions are in the field of differential geometry. \"Lessons of intrinsic geometry\", written in 1894, explains in particular the construction of a fractal curve. After that, Cesàro also studied the \"snowflake curve\" of Koch, continuous but not differentiable in all its points. \n\nAmong its other remarkable works, the following are worth to cite: \"Introduction to the mathematical theory of infinitesimal calculus\" (1893), \"Algebraic analysis\" (1894), \"Elements of infinitesimal calculus\" (1897). He proposes a possible definition of a divergent sequence, known today as \"Cesàro's sum,\" given by the limit of the mean of the sequence partial terms' sum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15153484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15153484", "title": "Evolution &amp; Development", "text": "Evolution &amp; Development\n\nEvolution & Development is a peer-reviewed scientific journal publishing material at the interface of evolutionary and developmental biology. Within evolutionary developmental biology, it has the aim of aiding a broader synthesis of biological thought in these two areas. Its scope ranges from paleontology and population biology, to developmental and molecular biology, including mathematics and the history and philosophy of science.\n\nIt was established in 1999 by five biologists: Wallace Arthur, Sean B. Carroll, Michael Coates, Rudolf Raff, and Gregory Wray. They continue to serve as editors. It is published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology.\n"}
{"id": "36380462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36380462", "title": "Geoffroy d'Ablis", "text": "Geoffroy d'Ablis\n\nGeoffroy d'Ablis was a Dominican who led the Inquisition in Carcassonne against Cathars such as Peire Autier from 1303 to 1316. He collaborated with Bernard Gui, the inquisitor at Toulouse.\n"}
{"id": "49229254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49229254", "title": "Health Utilities Index", "text": "Health Utilities Index\n\nThe Health Utilities Index (HUI) is a rating scale used to measure general health status and health-related quality of life (HRQoL). HUI questionnaires are designed to map onto two classification systems, HUI-2 and HUI-3, capable of measuring 24,000 and 972,000 unique health states, respectively. HUI classifications measure a range of health domains with examples including sensation, mobility, pain, cognition, ambulation, and emotion. Health utility values are commonly produced using HUI as a component of the quality-adjusted life years (QALY) calculation used in population health and economics.\n\nOriginally developed by McMaster University in Canada, HUI has subsequently evolved and been adapted by Health Utilities Inc. The purpose of developing HUI was to create a standardized classification system using preference-based scoring. HUI was modeled using multi-attribute utility theory to assess a participants overall health-related quality of life. HUI was first used to evaluate HRQoL in very-low birth weight infants and adolescent cancer morbidity and has since been taken by thousands of respondents from hundreds of researchers.\n\nThe attribute categories were decided upon after consulting the general public to rank their order of importance. Using Von Neumann-Morganstern utility theorem to measure a participants health status, health state responses for each attribute are converted to a standardized health utility value which is discussed in detail below.\n\nHUI-2 and HUI-3 questionnaires are proprietary and available for use from Health Utilities Inc. website. There is a licensing fee to use the questionnaire and generally costs $3,000 for a single research project use. Included in the license is a manual describing how to convert survey responses into attribute levels.\n\nHUI-2 classification system consists of 7 attributes including sensation, mobility, emotion, cognition, self-care, pain and fertility. Fertility is not currently used in the HUI-2 questionnaire, but was included historically to account for the effects of infertility on health-related quality of life. Participants answering each attribute chooses one of three to five response items. HUI-2 is capable of identifying 24,000 unique health states. A level 1 response indicates no difficulty or interference while the highest level in each of the attributes corresponds to the lowest possible quality of life. The following table shows the number of health state levels for each attribute:\nHUI-3 classification system consists of 8 attributes including vision, hearing, speech, ambulation, dexterity, emotion, cognition, and pain. These attributes range from five or six levels of health states for each attribute. HUI-3 is capable of identifying 972,000 unique health states. Consistent with HUI-2, a level 1 response indicates the best possible health state for a given attribute while the highest level indicates the worst possible health state. The following table show the number of health state levels for each attribute:\nThe HUI-3 was created to update the HUI-2 response categories after some of the attribute response items were criticized for not having application to the general population studies. For example, the HUI-2 emotion attribute focuses on distress and anxiety while HUI-3 emotion focuses on happiness compared to depression. The HUI-2 pain attribute is primarily concerned with the severity of pain whereas HUI-3 is concerned with frequency and control of pain. Cognition in HUI-2 focuses on learning while HUI-3 focuses on problem-solving ability of participants. In addition, sensation in the HUI-2 was broken down into vision, hearing, and speech for HUI-3 update.\n\nA health state identification can be established for each of the possible health states in the HUI-2 and HUI-3. A unique health state is described as a sequence of numbers based on the level selected for each attribute. In HUI-2, perfect health is described as a sequence of seven one's in a row (i.e., 1111111). HUI health state levels are converted to health utilities using either single-attributes and multi-attributes. Each defined health state level are assigned a health utility value and used in the formula described below. The utility values are determined using time trade-off methods which determine preferences for particular health states.\n\nIn HUI, utility values range from -0.03 and -0.36 for the HUI-2 and HUI-3, respectively, to 1.00. A health utility value of 1.00 indicates perfect health while a score of 0.00 indicates death. To account for the fact that some health states are identified by the general public as being worse than death. To calculate a health utility score, health states for each response are converted using a look-up table and mathematical formula. Each attribute and level has a corresponding coefficient value to be input into the formula to calculate health utility.\n\nThe multi-attribute coefficients for converting \n\nEach of these coefficients would be entered into the following formula to yield a general health utility:\n\nformula_1\n\nFor single attribute utility scores in HUI-3, a table published on the Health Utilities Inc. website provides the corresponding health utility score. For multi-attribute utility functions, a separate table is used that accounts for an overall health utility based on each of the eight attributes in HUI-3. The following table provides the associated coefficients used in the health utility formula:\n\nFor each health state, the attribute level selected in the response is entered into the following health utility formula:\n\nformula_2\n\nA health state for a respondent of the following: \n\nThe corresponding coefficients associated with each attribute and level are entered into the above formula as:\n\nU = 1.371(1*0.95*0.94*0.86*0.95*0.85*0.92*0.77)-0.371\n\nThe results of the calculation yields an overall health utility of 0.231. This value indicates the respondents overall health status on a standardized scale which can be compared to other utilities.\n\nSince its development, HUI classification systems have been used extensively in clinical studies. HUI-2 and HUI-3 are used to elicit health status score from respondents which are converted to health utility scores. Health utility scores are then used in clinical trials to assess quality-adjusted life years as a result of clinical interventions. HUI has been studied in disease states across the health spectrum including cancer, stroke, and mental health. Examples of treatments include comparisons between two or more pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and other medical technologies.\n\nQuality-adjusted life years are calculated by multiplying the number of life years gained by the health utility. The adjustment accounts for the changes in health-related quality of life for a given health state as a result of treatment. Common applications include cost-effectiveness analysis and comparative-effectiveness analysis which are types of economic analysis. These type of analyses are used to inform decisions about the amount of value a particular treatment provides relative to other treatments at a population level of health.\n\nTo date, HUI classification systems have focused on evaluating population health to make macro-level decisions about health care utilization, however, its use to identify health status of individuals for use in a clinical setting is being considered.\n\nSince its introduction in 1991, HUI questionnaires and classification systems have been translated into 35 different languages and have been used by 300 investigators across 20 different countries around the world. Research has demonstrated that HUI provides comparable measures of general health status to the SF-36 and EQ-5D, other well established questionnaires used in this field.\n"}
{"id": "56407071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56407071", "title": "Hereditary (film)", "text": "Hereditary (film)\n\nHereditary is a 2018 American supernatural horror film written and directed by Ari Aster, in his feature directorial debut. It stars Toni Collette, Alex Wolff, Milly Shapiro and Gabriel Byrne as a family haunted after the death of their secretive grandmother.\n\n\"Hereditary\" premiered on January 21, 2018, in the Midnight section at the 2018 Sundance Film Festival, and was theatrically released in the United States on June 8, 2018. It was acclaimed by critics, with Collette's performance receiving particular praise, and was a commercial success, making over $79 million on a $10 million budget to become A24's highest-grossing film worldwide.\n\nArtist Annie Graham lives with her husband, Steve, their 16-year-old son Peter, and their 13-year-old daughter, Charlie. At the funeral of her secretive mother, Ellen, Annie delivers a eulogy explaining their fraught relationship. Steve is informed that Ellen's grave has been desecrated, while Annie thinks she sees an apparition of Ellen in her workshop. At a support group for bereaved, Annie reveals that the rest of her family suffered from mental illness that resulted in their deaths.\n\nTo attend a party, Peter lies that he is going to a school event, and Annie forces him to take Charlie with him. Unsupervised, Charlie eats cake containing nuts, which she is allergic to, and falls into anaphylactic shock. As Peter drives her to a hospital, Charlie leans out of the window for air. Peter swerves to avoid a dead animal and Charlie is decapitated by a telephone pole. The family grieves following Charlie's funeral, heightening tensions between Annie and Peter. Peter is plagued by Charlie's presence around the house.\n\nAnnie is befriended by a support group member, Joan. Annie tells her she used to sleepwalk, and recounts an incident in which she woke up in Peter's bedroom to find herself, Peter, and Charlie covered in paint thinner with a lit match in her hand. Joan teaches Annie to perform a séance to communicate with Charlie.\n\nAnnie wakes from a nightmare and convinces her family to attempt the séance. Objects begin to move and break, terrifying Peter, and Charlie seemingly possesses Annie until Steve douses her with water. Annie suspects that Charlie's spirit has become malevolent. She throws Charlie's sketchbook into the fireplace, but her sleeve also begins to burn. She retrieves it and heads to Joan's apartment for advice, but Joan has vanished.\n\nAnnie notices that Joan's welcome mat resembles her mother's craftwork. She goes through her mother's possessions and finds a photo album linking Joan to Ellen, and a book with information about a demon named Paimon, who wishes to inhabit the body of a male host. In the attic, Annie finds Ellen's decapitated body with strange symbols on the wall written in blood.\n\nAt school, Peter becomes confused and slams his head against his desk, breaking his nose. Annie shows Steve her mother's body and the sketchbook. Annie begs Steve to burn the sketchbook so she can sacrifice herself to stop the haunting, but Steve assumes she has gone mad, accusing her of desecrating Ellen's grave herself. When Annie throws the book into the fireplace, Steve bursts into flames instead. Annie becomes possessed.\n\nPeter awakens to find his father's body. Annie chases him into the attic, which is decorated with cult imagery. Levitating, Annie beheads herself with a piano wire as naked coven members look on. Peter jumps out of the window. As he lies on the ground, a light enters his body and he wakes up. He follows Annie's levitating corpse into Charlie's treehouse, where Charlie's crowned, decapitated head rests atop a mannequin. Joan, other coven members and the headless corpses of his mother and grandmother bow to him. Joan, addressing him as Charlie, swears an oath to him as Paimon, stating that he has been liberated from his female host, Charlie, and is free to rule over them.\n\n\nDuring pre-production, writer-director Ari Aster often referred to the film not as a horror film but rather \"a tragedy that curdles into a nightmare.\" Films said to have influenced Aster in the making of \"Hereditary\" include \"Rosemary's Baby\", \"Cries and Whispers\", \"Don't Look Now\", \"Carrie\", \"Ordinary People\", and \"The Cook, the Thief, His Wife & Her Lover\". Aster also noted that much of his inspiration for the film came from older Japanese horror films.\n\nThe film began shooting in February 2017 in Utah. The exteriors of the Graham family house and the tree house were shot in Salt Lake City, and the school scenes were shot in West High School, but all other interiors (including both versions of the treehouse) were built from scratch on a sound stage. Since each of the rooms was built on a stage, walls could be removed to shoot scenes at a much greater distance than a practical location would allow, creating the dollhouse aesthetic of the film.\n\n\"Hereditary\" premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 21, 2018. The trailer for the film was released on January 30, 2018. On Anzac Day in 2018, the trailer for \"Hereditary\" played before the PG-rated family film \"Peter Rabbit\" in a cinema in Innaloo, Western Australia. According to a report in \"The Sydney Morning Herald\", the \"Hereditary\" preview was accidentally shown to family audiences and created a small panic in the theater. The theater was apparently full of families including \"at least 40 children\".\n\nThe film was released in the United States by A24 on June 8, 2018. It was released in the United Kingdom by Entertainment Film Distributors on June 15, 2018.\n\n\"Hereditary\" has grossed $44 million in the United States and Canada, and $35.3 million in other countries, for a total worldwide gross of $79.3 million, against a production budget of $10 million.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, \"Hereditary\" was released alongside \"Ocean's 8\" and \"Hotel Artemis\", and was originally projected to gross $5–9 million in its opening weekend, similar to the debuts of previous A24 horror films \"The Witch\" ($8.8 million in 2016) and \"It Comes at Night\" ($6 million in 2017). It was also the widest-ever release for an A24 film with 2,964 theaters, besting the 2,553 of \"It Comes at Night\". After making $5.2 million on its first day, including $1.3 million from Thursday night previews, weekend estimates were increased to $12 million. It went on to debut to $13.6 million, finishing fourth at the box office, behind \"Ocean's 8\", \"\" and \"Deadpool 2\", and marking the best-ever opening for an A24 title. In its second weekend the film dropped just 48% to $7 million (compared to the 60–70% fall many horror films see in their sophomore frame), finishing sixth. By July 29, 2018 the film had grossed $79 million worldwide, passing \"Lady Bird\" ($78.5 million) to become A24's highest-grossing film worldwide.\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 89% based on 298 reviews, and an average rating of 8.2/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"\"Hereditary\" uses its classic setup as the framework for a harrowing, uncommonly unsettling horror film whose cold touch lingers long beyond the closing credits.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 87 out of 100, based on 49 critics, indicating \"universal acclaim\".\n\nWriting for \"Rolling Stone\", Peter Travers gave the film 3.5 out of 4 stars and called it the scariest movie of 2018, saying \"it's Collette, giving the performance of her career, who takes us inside Annie's breakdown in flesh and spirit and shatters what's left of our nerves. Her tour de force bristles with provocations that for sure will keep you up nights. But first you'll scream your bloody head off.\" For \"The A.V. Club\", A.A. Dowd gave the film an A−, stating that, \"In its seriousness and hair-raising craftsmanship, \"Hereditary\" belongs to a proud genre lineage, a legacy that stretches back to the towering touchstones of American horror, unholy prestige-zeitgeist classics like \"The Exorcist\" and \"Rosemary's Baby\". Remarkably, it's a first feature, the auspicious debut of writer-director Ari Aster, whose acclaimed, disturbing short films were all leading, like a tunnel into the underworld, to this bleak vision.\" Common Sense Media gave the film four out of five stars and advised that it was suitable for viewers aged 17 or older.\n\nAudiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"D+\" on an A+ to F scale. Some publications noted the critics-to-audience discrepancy, comparing it to \"Drive\", \"The Witch\" and \"It Comes at Night\", all of which were critically acclaimed but failed to impress mainstream moviegoers.\n\n"}
{"id": "48202258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48202258", "title": "Huang Dao", "text": "Huang Dao\n\nHuang Dao (; April 25, 1900 – May 23, 1939) original name Huang Duanzhang (), also known as Yiming () was a member of the Chinese Workers' and Peasants' Red Army and the New Fourth Army. He was born in Hengfeng County, Jiangxi Province. He was the father of Huang Zhizhen, who was governor of Hubei Province under the People's Republic of China. He fought in the Chinese Civil War on the side of the Communist Party of China, being active in northern and eastern Fujian near the border with Zhejiang. He remained in southern China after the Long March. During the Second Sino-Japanese War, he was poisoned by the Kuomintang en route to southern Anhui.\n"}
{"id": "952926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=952926", "title": "Hubert Dreyfus", "text": "Hubert Dreyfus\n\nHubert Lederer Dreyfus (; October 15, 1929 – April 22, 2017) was an American philosopher and professor of philosophy at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nHis main interests included phenomenology, existentialism and the philosophy of both psychology and literature, as well as the philosophical implications of artificial intelligence. Dreyfus was known for his exegesis of Martin Heidegger, which critics labeled \"Dreydegger\".\n\nDreyfus was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2001 and is a recipient of the Harbison Prize for Outstanding Teaching at UC Berkeley. Erasmus University awarded Dreyfus an honorary doctorate \"for his brilliant and highly influential work in the field of artificial intelligence, and for his equally outstanding contributions to the analysis and interpretation of twentieth century continental philosophy\".\n\nA number of his students have gone on to hold tenured positions in leading American philosophy departments while working on themes related to Heidegger and phenomenology, including Taylor Carman, John Haugeland, Sean Dorrance Kelly, Iain Thomson, and Mark Wrathall.\n\nDreyfus is featured in Tao Ruspoli's film \"Being in the World\".\n\nBorn in Terre Haute, Indiana, to Stanley S. and Irene Lederer Dreyfus, Dreyfus was educated at Harvard University, earning three degrees there, with a BA \"summa cum laude\" in 1951, an MA in 1952, and a PhD in 1964, under the supervision of Dagfinn Føllesdal . He is considered a leading interpreter of the work of Edmund Husserl, Michel Foucault, and Maurice Merleau-Ponty, but especially of Martin Heidegger. He also co-authored \"Michel Foucault: Beyond Structuralism and Hermeneutics\", translated Merleau-Ponty's \"Sense and Non-Sense\", and authored the controversial 1972 book \"What Computers Can't Do\", revised first in 1979, and then again in 1992 with a new introduction as \"What Computers Still Can't Do\".\n\nDr. Dreyfus was the recipient of a Fulbright grant to Belgium and did research on philosophy at the Husserl Archives (University of Louvain/Leuven) for his doctoral thesis (October 1956 until July 1957). While spending most of his teaching career at Berkeley, Dreyfus also taught at Brandeis University (1957 to 1959), the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (from 1960 to 1968), the University of Frankfurt, Hamilton College and held the Spinoza Chair of Philosophy at the University of Amsterdam in 2003. His philosophical work has influenced Richard Rorty, Charles Taylor, John Searle, and his former student John Haugeland, among others. His critical comments on the existential phenomenology and subsequent dialectical philosophy of Jean-Paul Sartre may well have played a significant role in the demise of Sartre's influence on recent thought.\n\nIn 1965, while teaching at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dreyfus published \"Alchemy and Artificial Intelligence\", an attack on the work of Allen Newell and Herbert A. Simon, two of the leading researchers in the field of Artificial Intelligence. Dreyfus not only questioned the results they had so far obtained, but he also criticized their basic presupposition (that intelligence consists of the manipulation of physical symbols according to formal rules), and argued that the AI research program was doomed to failure. In 1965, he spent time at the Rand Corporation, while work on artificial intelligence was in progress there. In addition to criticizing artificial intelligence, Dreyfus was well known for making the work of continental philosophers, especially Martin Heidegger, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, and Michel Foucault, intelligible to analytically trained philosophers.\n\nDreyfus died on April 22, 2017.\n\nHis younger brother, Stuart Dreyfus, earned a PhD in applied mathematics and is a professor of industrial engineering and operations research at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nDreyfus' critique of artificial intelligence (AI) concerns what he considers to be the four primary assumptions of AI research. The first two assumptions are what he calls the \"biological\" and \"psychological\" assumptions. The biological assumption is that the brain is analogous to computer hardware and the mind is analogous to computer software. The psychological assumption is that the mind works by performing discrete computations (in the form of algorithmic rules) on discrete representations or symbols.\n\nDreyfus claims that the plausibility of the psychological assumption rests on two others: the epistemological and ontological assumptions. The epistemological assumption is that all activity (either by animate or inanimate objects) can be formalised (mathematically) in the form of predictive rules or laws. The ontological assumption is that reality consists entirely of a set of mutually independent, atomic (indivisible) facts. It's because of the epistemological assumption that workers in the field argue that intelligence is the same as formal rule-following, and it's because of the ontological one that they argue that human knowledge consists entirely of internal representations of reality.\n\nOn the basis of these two assumptions, workers in the field claim that cognition is the manipulation of internal symbols by internal rules, and that, therefore, human behaviour is, to a large extent, context free (see contextualism). Therefore, a truly scientific psychology is possible, which will detail the 'internal' rules of the human mind, in the same way the laws of physics detail the 'external' laws of the physical world.\n\nBut it is this key assumption that Dreyfus denies. In other words, he argues that we cannot now (and never will be able to) understand our own behavior \"in the same way\" as we understand objects in, for example, physics or chemistry: that is, by considering ourselves as things whose behaviour can be predicted via 'objective', context free scientific laws. According to Dreyfus, a context-free psychology is a contradiction in terms.\n\nDreyfus's arguments against this position are taken from the phenomenological and hermeneutical tradition (especially the work of Martin Heidegger). Heidegger argued that, contrary to the cognitivist views (on which AI has been based), our being is in fact highly context-bound, which is why the two context-free assumptions are false. Dreyfus doesn't deny that we can \"choose to see\" human (or any) activity as being 'law-governed', in the same way that we can \"choose to see\" reality as consisting of indivisible atomic facts ... if we wish. But it is a huge leap from that to state that because we want to or can see things in this way that \"it is therefore an objective fact that they are the case\". In fact, Dreyfus argues that they are \"not\" (necessarily) the case, and that, therefore, any research program that assumes they \"are\" will quickly run into profound theoretical and practical problems. Therefore, the current efforts of workers in the field are doomed to failure.\n\nDreyfus argues that to get a device or devices with human-like intelligence would require them to have a human-like being-in-the-world and to have bodies more or less like ours, and social acculturation (i.e. a society) more or less like ours. (This view is shared by psychologists in the embodied psychology (Lakoff and Johnson 1999) and distributed cognition traditions. His opinions are similar to those of robotics researchers such as Rodney Brooks as well as researchers in the field of artificial life.)\n\nDaniel Crevier writes: \"time has proven the accuracy and perceptiveness of some of Dreyfus's comments. Had he formulated them less aggressively, constructive actions they suggested might have been taken much earlier.\"\n\nWhen UC Berkeley and Apple began making a selected number of lecture classes freely available to the public as podcasts beginning around 2006, a recording of Dreyfus teaching a course called \"Man, God, and Society in Western Literature - From Gods to God and Back\" rose to 58th most popular webcast on iTunes. These webcasts have attracted the attention of many, including non-academics, to Dreyfus and his subject area.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55914121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55914121", "title": "Jorma Aalto", "text": "Jorma Aalto\n\nJorma Aalto (born 24 August 1957) is a Finnish skier. He competed in the men's 30 kilometre cross-country ski race at the 1980 Winter Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "14924328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14924328", "title": "Josh Blaylock", "text": "Josh Blaylock\n\nJosh Blaylock (born March 29, 1990) is an American actor. Blaylock is best known for his role as BrianD in the web series \"Video Game High School\" from 2012 to 2014. He has also appeared in \"The Bernie Mac Show\", \"No Country for Old Men\", and \"Warehouse 13\". Blaylock is also the voice actor of Jack Marston, son of John Marston, in the 2010 video game \"Red Dead Redemption\".\n\nBlaylock grew up in Lucas, Texas, before moving to Los Angeles, California, in 2008 to pursue acting. In addition to acting, Blaylock is a photographer. During the production of \"Video Game High School\" he was featured in an issue of \"Allen Image\", a community magazine for Collin County, Texas.\n\nBlaylock's first acting role was for a short in 2004. From there he went to appear in \"The Bernie Mac Show\", \"No Country for Old Men\", \"Video Game High School\", \"Spider-Man\" and other series and films.\n\n"}
{"id": "27717790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27717790", "title": "Kinectimals", "text": "Kinectimals\n\nKinectimals is a video game for the Xbox 360 that use Kinect, with versions also available for various mobile devices. In the game players can interact with virtual animals in a manner akin to pets, gameplay includes activities such as teaching tricks to the animal, guiding the animal around an obstacle course, and free-form play.\n\nThe video game is aimed at a young audience, particularly children, and includes eleven different virtual animals all based on wild cats. \"Kinectimals\" was developed by Frontier Developments and was a launch title for Kinect.\n\nAn add-on, \"Kinectimals: Bear Island\", was released as downloadable content on October 11, 2011, along with \"Kinectimals: Now with Bears!\", a single retail disc that bundles \"Bear Island\" with the base game. It also includes a FAO Schwarz plush with scan tag.\n\nThroughout the game players spend time using the Kinect system to feed, play with, care, and even raise an animal cub. Upon starting the game the player will visit Fur Town, where they will choose one of the 6 initial cubs. As they play the game, more cubs can be unlocked. Throughout the game there are 11 cubs. The cat-lemur fairy, Bumble (voiced by Richard Steven Horvitz) guides the player through the game. Players can also use the scan tag to unlock new cubs.\n\n\"Kinectimals\" has received mostly positive reviews. Video game talk show \"Good Game\"s two presenters gave the game a 7 and 7.5 out of 10 saying how it was quite fun and that your animal would give instant feedback as well most younger gamers would love playing it. Initially they said \"It has a lot more life, energy and fun to it than something like \"EyePet\" - there's a lot of sparkle, but I was okay with that.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "22166352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22166352", "title": "List of fictional dhampirs", "text": "List of fictional dhampirs\n\nThis list covers the many types of dhampirs or dhampir-like creatures found in fiction. It does not include any dhampir that originates in folklore or mythology, nor does it include the concept of 'full' vampires.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55585797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55585797", "title": "List of people executed in Mexico", "text": "List of people executed in Mexico\n\nThis is a list of people legally executed in Mexico. The death penalty was a legal punishment in Mexico since Pre-Columbian times, and was still applied during its contemporary history. The last non-military execution in Mexico was in 1937, and the last military execution was in 1961, with the civil death penalty being abolished in 1976 and the military death penalty in 2005. The next list is representative and includes people condemned and executed during Mexican history:\n"}
{"id": "32483138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32483138", "title": "Murder of Jason Sweeney", "text": "Murder of Jason Sweeney\n\nJason Keel Sweeney was a construction worker from Fishtown, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, who at the age of 16 was murdered by four teenagers for his paycheck on May 30, 2003. The perpetrators included a girl he was dating and his best friend since childhood. Due to the manner in which Sweeney was murdered, the ages of the teens involved, and the seeming indifference of the perpetrators, the crime received national media coverage.\n\nJason Sweeney had left school and was working for his father, a contractor, on a building project in Philadelphia. He had recently met a girl he liked, 15-year-old Justina Morley, with whom he had a date on the evening of Friday, May 30, 2003. Unbeknownst to Sweeney, Morley was regularly engaging in sexual relations with two other 16-year-olds, Nicholas Coia and Edward Batzig Jr. Batzig had been Sweeney's best friend since the fourth grade. Nicholas Coia and his 17-year-old brother, Domenic Coia, had also been friendly with Sweeney, but the brothers later ended the friendship.\n\nWith the promise of sex, Morley lured Sweeney to \"The Trails,\" a wooded area of Fishtown near the Delaware River, where Batzig and the Coia brothers were lying in wait. Batzig took the first blow, striking Sweeney in the head 4 to 5 times. Batzig and the Coia brothers then pummeled Sweeney, primarily on his head and face, with a hatchet, a hammer and a rock until he was dead. Batzig later told a detective how he hit Sweeney with the hatchet face four or five times. Batzig said, \"Jason started begging for his life, but we just kept hitting him.\" Batzig also said that Sweeney looked at him during the beating and said \"Please stop, I'm bleeding,\" after which Batzig hit Sweeney again with the axe. They finished by dropping a boulder rock on the right side of his head. Sweeney's head was crushed and the only bone left undamaged was his left cheekbone. He was identified by a cut on his hand that he sustained at his construction job.\n\nFollowing Sweeney's murder, the four assailants stole the $500 cash he had earned from work. Before leaving the crime scene, the Coias, Batzig and Morley shared a group hug and split the money, which they used to buy jewelry and illegal drugs—heroin, marijuana and Xanax—and then \"partied beyond redemption,\" according to Domenic.\n\nDomenic Coia confessed in a court hearing that they were all involved in the murder of Sweeney. The police said the murder was planned days before. Part of the preparation of the murder was listening to the Beatles song \"Helter Skelter\" over forty times, prompting later news coverage to draw a parallel to the Manson family murders. Joshua Staab, 18, a friend of Domenic Coia, said that the group had bragged about their plan to kill Sweeney by using Justina Morley as \"bait.\" Staab also said that Batzig knew that Sweeney would have his paycheck earnings on him on the day of the murder. The prosecutor asked Staab about the teens' demeanor after the killing. Staab said, \"They seemed pretty fine. In a way, happy.\"\n\nAlthough all four teens involved in the murder were drug addicts, they were not high before they murdered Sweeney. In response to a detective's question about whether they were high during the killing, Domenic Coia answered, \"No, I was as sober as I am now. It is sick, isn't it?\" A detective involved in the case and a forensic psychologist later opined that the killers' motivation went beyond robbery and stemmed from envy and resentment of Sweeney's relative success in life.\n\nJustina Morley claimed that she started smoking marijuana at the age of 10, and shortly thereafter started taking prescription pills and snorting cocaine. April Frederick, Morley's mother, said her daughter started cutting her wrists at the age of 10. Morley had been hospitalized for threatening suicide and self-mutilation in 2002. She was once admitted to Friends Hospital for cutting her wrists, knees and thighs, taking pills and displaying a suicide poem, which she had penned, on her door. Morley told her mother that she would commit suicide if her mother did not take her out of the hospital; her mother then took her out against the hospital's advice. Morley had also been expelled from public school in the eighth grade, which she then repeated at the private Holy Name of Jesus Catholic school in Fishtown.\n\nA psychiatrist hired by the defense team, William Russell, said the reason Morley began sexual activity at an early age \"was an attempt at validation of self-worth\". Morley testified that she had sex with both Nicholas Coia and Batzig in exchange for heroin just a few days before they murdered Sweeney.\n\nJustina Morley's attorneys explained to the judge that the girl had suffered through depression, suicide attempts and substance abuse in order to get her a juvenile court trial. Psychiatrist William Russell explained to the court how Morley attempted suicide twice by overdosing on pills only the year before the killing. Morley's attorney argued she was the least culpable and if tried as a juvenile, she could get treatment and live a productive life. The Assistant District Attorney argued that Morley was an important part of the plot in Sweeney's murder and she had treatment before, to no avail. If tried in a juvenile court, Morley could have been free of court supervision by the age of 21. The judge agreed with the prosecution and ordered her to be tried as an adult for murder. At that point, Morley pleaded guilty to third-degree murder in exchange for her testimony against other defendants, and was sentenced to 17 1/2 to 35 years in prison.\n\nDomenic Coia, Nicholas Coia and Edward Batzig Jr. were charged with first-degree murder, conspiracy, robbery and possessing an instrument of crime. All were tried together as adults. In 2004, prosecutors decided not to seek the death penalty against Batzig and Nicholas Coia, but planned to seek it against Domenic Coia. However, during the trial, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in \"Roper v. Simmons\" that defendants under the age of 18 could not be executed. As a result, Domenic Coia, who was 14 days away from his 18th birthday at the time of the crime, could not receive the death penalty. Therefore, the Coia brothers and Batzig all faced mandatory life sentences without parole if convicted of first-degree murder.\n\nJailhouse letters of the defendants were read during the trial to understand their behavior and to determine who, if anyone, was the most culpable. Defense counsel for the Coias and Batzig argued that Morley was the instigator and led the boys to commit the murder of Sweeney. In one of her writings to Domenic Coia, she wrote: \"So you say I'm manipulative, and yes, I believe I am in ways. I'm persuasively manipulative, and I think I'm pretty good at it, too. I enjoy dragging people along.\" She went on to say: \". . . Tell me you don't enjoy these gullible humans. It's funny how easy it is to persuade them into lies.\" She also wrote to Domenic Coia, \"I'm a cold-blooded [expletive] death-worshiping bitch who survives by feeding off the weak and lonely. I lure them, and then I crush them.\" Expressing no remorse at all in one letter, she stated: \"I am guilty. But I still don't feel guilty for anything. . . . I still enjoy my flashbacks. They give me comfort. I love them.\" However, Morley testified that she did feel remorse for the slaying of Sweeney and that she only wrote such things so that she would be accepted by the Coias and Batzig. The prosecution, while acknowledging that Morley's letters showed her to be \"a cold-blooded killer\", nevertheless used her letters to demonstrate the depravity of the group.\n\nThe defense attorneys for the Coias and Batzig also contended that their clients, being drug addicts, lacked the intent to kill needed to support a first-degree murder conviction, and at most had committed the lesser crime of third-degree murder. However, this strategy was undermined by the confessions of the three defendants. Assistant District Attorney Jude Conroy read part of Domenic Coia's confession in court: \"We just kept hitting and hitting him. . . . We took Sweeney's wallet and split up the money, and we partied beyond redemption.\" Domenic Coia had also told a detective: \"It was like we were all happy [with] what we did.\"\n\nThe Coia brothers and Batzig were convicted on charges of first-degree murder, conspiracy, robbery and possession of an instrument of crime. In May 2005, each one was sentenced to mandatory life in prison without parole for murder, plus 22 1/2 to 45 years for conspiracy, robbery and possessing an instrument of crime.\n\nNone of the teens showed any remorse or apologized for the murder. Paul Sweeney, the victim's father, addressed Domenic Coia, saying, \"Look at me, Domenic, with your evil eyes\". Domenic Coia responded, \"I never thought I had evil eyes, but I guess I do. And I'm cool.\" The judge, in denying defense counsel's motion for a sentence that could allow for parole, said: \"There is a level of inhumanity that exists in these facts. This was a totally depraved act.\"\n\nIn 2012, the Supreme Court in \"Miller v. Alabama\" struck down mandatory life without parole sentences for juveniles under 18, holding that the court must consider the individual circumstances of each juvenile defendant in determining sentence — which might still be life without parole if, in the court's judgment, the circumstances warrant it. The Supreme Court left open the question of whether \"Miller\" applied retroactively to trigger resentencing of all juveniles who had already been sentenced, leaving this to the decision of individual state courts and legislatures. In Pennsylvania, where the Coias and Batzig were sentenced, the state supreme court ruled in 2013 not to apply \"Miller\" retroactively, thus upholding the mandatory life sentences of juveniles whose sentences were already final at the time of the Supreme Court ruling. However, the state supreme court also ruled (in a different case) that juveniles sentenced to mandatory life without parole whose sentences were not yet final at the time of \"Miller\" were entitled to a resentencing hearing considering their individual circumstances, at which they could receive a sentence of life without parole, or life with the possibility of parole after a minimum term. Batzig and Nicholas Coia, who both had appeals pending at the time of \"Miller\", were granted such resentencing hearings.\n\nAt Nicholas Coia's resentencing hearing on February 19, 2015, Common Pleas Judge Sandy L. V. Byrd sentenced him to life in prison without the possibility of parole, upholding the original 2005 sentence. Byrd noted, \"This is an uncommon case, there are no factors which remove the defendant from the punishment of life in prison without parole,\" Byrd said. \"Not only did he plan the assault, but he participated in the assault which was so violent that Jason Sweeney had to be identified with dental records.\" \n\nPaul and Dawn Sweeney, Jason Sweeney's parents, set up the Jason Keel Sweeney Foundation, in memory of their son, to fund a full scholarship for the Valley Forge Military School, the school of their son's dreams. Jason Sweeney had wanted to attend the military school to become a Navy SEAL. He had been accepted into the school, but could not afford the tuition. \nA 2003 episode of \"\" entitled \"Coming of Rage\" (Season 4, Episode 10) is loosely based on the crime.\n\nThe crime inspired comic artist Kevin Colden's 2008 graphic novel \"Fishtown\", which was nominated for an Eisner Award.\n\nA 2012, episode of the Lifetime Movie Network series \"Killer Kids\" entitled \"Foul Ball and Framed\" detailed the murder, including actual footage from the crime scene, in the second segment of the episode (\"Framed\").\n\nIn 2013, convicted murderer Domenic Coia wrote a memoir of his life and the murder, entitled \"Biological Juvenile\". It was subsequently posted in PDF form on the website prisonsfoundation.org.\n\nAn episode of \"Murder Among Friends,\" titled '\"Friend Fatale,\" on Investigation Discovery profiled the murder of Jason Sweeney on May 17, 2016, less than two weeks before the 13th anniversary of Sweeney's death.\n\n"}
{"id": "43645420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43645420", "title": "Nicola Saggio", "text": "Nicola Saggio\n\nSaint Nicola Saggio was an Italian Roman Catholic professed oblate of the Order of Minims.\n\nHe was beatified on 17 September 1786 and was canonized as a saint of the Roman Catholic Church on 23 November 2014.\n\nNicola Saggio was born on 6 January 1650 in Longobardi, a small town on the Tyrrhenian coast. His parents were Fulvio Saggio, a farmer, and Aurelia Saggio née Pizzini. He was the first of five children while the twins Antonio and Domenica followed and then Nicola and Muzio. He was baptized in the names of \"Giovanni Battista Clemente\" on 10 January 1650.\n\nHis parents raised him with high moral and spiritual values and instilled in him a Christian education. He visited the convent of the Minims which made him desire the religious life as his path in life.\n\nHe was famous as a catechist in Longobardi and in Roman circles. A further change in his spiritual life was recorded in 1683 after a pilgrimage on foot to Loreto to ask God – through the intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary – for the liberation of Vienna from the Turks.\n\nOn 17 March 1771 he was made Venerable once Pope Clement XIV confirmed his life of heroic virtue. Pope Pius VI presided over the rite of beatification for the late oblate on 17 September 1786 in Saint Peter's Basilica after approving two miracles attributed to his intercession on 2 April 1786. After the beatification he was made the patron of Longobardi (his village).\n\nThe third and final miracle for the canonization occurred in 1938 for a mason of Longobardi who fell from a scaffold without sustaining injuries. The diocesan investigation took place between 24 May 2008 and 15 June 2009; the process received the validation of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints on 11 March 2011 while the consulting medical board approved the miracle on 13 December 2012. Theologians voiced approval on 28 November 2013 while the C.C.S. also assented on 4 March 2014. Pope Francis canonized him as a saint on 23 November 2014 in Saint Peter's Square after approving the miracle on 3 April 2014.\n\nThe postulator at the time of the canonization was the Rev. Ottavio Laino.\n\n"}
{"id": "582101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=582101", "title": "Nicolás Avellaneda", "text": "Nicolás Avellaneda\n\nNicolás Remigio Aurelio Avellaneda Silva (3 October 1837 – 24 November 1885) was an Argentine politician and journalist, and president of Argentina from 1874 to 1880. Avellaneda's main projects while in office were banking and education reform, leading to Argentina's economic growth. The most important events of his government were the Conquest of the Desert and the transformation of the City of Buenos Aires into a federal district.\n\nBorn in San Miguel de Tucumán, his mother moved with him to Bolivia after the death of his father, Marco Avellaneda, during a revolt against Juan Manuel de Rosas. He studied law at Córdoba, without graduating. Back at Tucumán he founded \"El Eco del Norte\", and moved to Buenos Aires in 1857, becoming director of the \"El Nacional\" and editor of \"El Comercio de la Plata\". He finished his studies at Buenos Aires, meeting Domingo Faustino Sarmiento. Sarmiento helped him to become teacher of economy at the University of Buenos Aires. He wrote \"Estudio sobre las leyes de tierras públicas\" (), proposing to give the lands to producers that make production from them. This system, similar to the one employed at the United States, suggested to reduce bureaucracy and pointed that this would allow stable populations and population growth. \n\nHe was a member of the house of representatives in 1859 and Minister of Government of Adolfo Alsina in the Buenos Aires province in 1866. During Domingo Faustino Sarmiento's presidency, he was Minister of Justice and Education. He implemented the educational reform that was defining of his government. \n\nAvellaneda attained the presidency in 1874 but had its legitimacy contested by Bartolomé Mitre and supported by Domingo Faustino Sarmiento. Mitre deployed the army against Avellaneda but was defeated by Julio Argentino Roca. Mitre was held prisoner and judged by military justice, but Avellaneda indulted him in order to promote pacification. He also included Rufino de Elizalde and José María Gutiérrez, supporters of Mitre, as members of his cabinet. \n\nIn line with people like Alberdi or Sarmiento, who thought that European immigration was crucial to the Argentine development, he promoted the \"Avellaneda law\" that allowed European farmers ease to get terrains. The immigration numbers were doubled in a few years. \n\nHaving won the revolution and bringing peace to the country, Avellaneda faced the serious economic crisis, centering his efforts on the control of the land with the Conquest of the Desert and expanding the railroads, the cereal and meat exports, and the European immigration, specially to Patagonia. During his presidency, the economy of Argentina was seriously affected by the European crisis putting the country on the edge of debt default. Deciding to take Argentina from its debts, he said that \"[...]there are two million Argentines who would economize even to their hunger and thirst to fulfill the promises of our public commitments in the foreign markets\". He reduced the budget and applied a weak protectionism. The crisis was eventually fixed with the growing exports of refrigerated meat to Europe, a new developing industrial method of the time. \n\nA prolific writer, his works have been published in 12 volumes.\n\nAged 37, he was the youngest Argentine president ever elected. He had served in the Argentine Senate for five months in 1874 and returned to the Senate in 1883 until his death. He died on a ship returning from medical treatment in France.\n"}
{"id": "41991545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41991545", "title": "Old Hannibal", "text": "Old Hannibal\n\nOld Hannibal (c. 1800 - May 7, 1865) was a famous 19th century Asiatic elephant that was part of Isaac A. Van Amburgh's menagerie.\n\nHannibal was brought to the United States as early as 1824 according to early sources, but at least by 1831. He was first called \"Timour the Tartar\" and renamed by Raymond, Weeks & Co. in 1833 as \"War Elephant Hannibal\".\n\nHe was known for having \"fits of fury\", and reportedly killed several people. Around 1839, he engaged in a fight with Columbus, another huge elephant, in Algiers, New Orleans; Columbus also killed two men that day. In June 1854, he escaped his keeper near Pawtucket, Rhode Island and ran many miles before being captured. And in November 1859, he caused a scene when he briefly escaped from captivity in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, injuring one man and freeing other animals from their cages on his way. In October 1862, he killed a \"partially deranged\" man who irritated him in Caldwell, Ohio, whereupon Van Amburgh had his tusks sawn off.\n\nOne winter, Hannibal was wintered next to \"Queen Anne\", a female elephant from a different traveling circus unit, and it was said to be \"a case of love at first sight,\" with mutual affection displayed between the elephants all winter. Hannibal became very depressed when they were parted in the spring, refusing to eat for eleven days (drinking only water and whiskey), and on the next day briefly escaping his fastenings in a rage.\n\nHannibal died, perhaps from eating poison laurel, in Centerville, Bedford County, Pennsylvania (located in Cumberland Valley Township), on May 7, 1865. He had lost his appetite and had become weak in the days prior to his death. Originally his skeleton was offered to New York City to be displayed, which was declined. Hannibal was buried near where he died, but his bones were reportedly exhumed under the direction of H.V. Boyd to be sent to the Chicago Medical College in 1871, though it is unclear if the bones made it there.\n\nAccording to a report on Hannibal's death in the \"Bedford Inquirer\" (May 17, 1865):\n\nHannibal was the largest animal ever exhibited on this continent. His height was eleven feet eight inches, and weight was ascertained to be 15,000 pounds, or seven and one-half tons. He consumed three hundred pounds of hay, three bushels of oats, and forty-six gallons of water per day. He was supposed to be in his sixty-fifth year at the time of his death. For thirty-six years he traversed this continent, at an average of 3,000 miles per year, the greatest curiosity ever exhibited to the wondering millions.\n"}
{"id": "29227740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29227740", "title": "Pieter Rumaropen", "text": "Pieter Rumaropen\n\nEdison Pieter Rumaropen (born 13 November 1983 in Biak Numfor Regency, Papua, Indonesia) is an Indonesian former football player who last played for Persiwa Wamena. His position was striker and midfielder.\n\nDuring a league match against Pelita Bandung Raya on 21 April 2013, Rumaropen assaulted the referee, punching him in the face after he had awarded a penalty against Persiwa Wamena. The official left the field, bleeding from his torn lower lip, and Rumaropen was given a red card. As a result of the assault Rumaropen was banned for life by PSSI, the Football Association of Indonesia.\n\nDespite of the life ban, Ruparopen still played for Persiwa Wamena on Premier League after getting relegated from Super League that year.\n\n"}
{"id": "351564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=351564", "title": "Pileated woodpecker", "text": "Pileated woodpecker\n\nThe pileated woodpecker (\"Dryocopus pileatus\") is a woodpecker native to North America. This insectivorous bird is a mostly sedentary inhabitant of deciduous forests in eastern North America, the Great Lakes, the boreal forests of Canada, and parts of the Pacific coast. It is the second-largest woodpecker on the continent, after the critically endangered — and possibly extinct — ivory-billed woodpecker. The term \"pileated\" refers to the bird's prominent red crest, with the term from the Latin \"pileatus\" meaning \"capped\".\n\nAdults are long, span across the wings, and weigh , with an average weight of . Each wing measures , the tail measures , the bill is and the tarsus measures . They are mainly black with a red crest, and have a white line down the sides of the throat. They show white on the wings in flight. The flight of these birds is strong and direct, but undulates in the way characteristic of woodpeckers. Adult males have a red line from the bill to the throat, in adult females these are black. Two species found in the Old World, the white-bellied and black woodpeckers, are closely related and occupy the same ecological niche in their respective ranges that the pileated occupies in North America. The only North American birds of similar plumage and size are the ivory-billed woodpecker of the southeastern United States and Cuba, and the related imperial woodpecker of Mexico. However, unlike the pileated, both of those species are extremely rare, if not extinct. Most reports of the ivory-billed woodpecker are believed to be erroneous reports of the far more common pileated.\n\nUp to four subspecies of pileated woodpeckers have been recognized historically. However, many authors only recognize two subspecies, the southernly \"D. p.\" subsp. \"pileatus\" and the northerly \"D. p.\" subsp. \"abieticola\", and the differences between the other two subspecies other than range are not well described. Generally, pileated woodpeckers follow Bergmann's rule being smaller and more compact in the south (\"D. p.\" subsp. \"pileatus\") and larger in the north (\"D. p.\" subsp. \"abieticola\"). The ranges of the potential four subspecies are described below.\n\n\nTheir breeding habitat is forested areas across Canada, the eastern United States, and parts of the Pacific coast. This bird favors mature forests and heavily wooded parks. They specifically prefer mesic habitats with large, mature hardwood trees, often being found in large tracts of forest. However, they also inhabit smaller woodlots as long as they have a scattering of tall trees. Efforts to restore woodland by removing invasive honeysuckle and buckthorn seem to benefit them, as the removal of brush and shrubbery facilitates their foraging on the ground and in the lower stratum.\n\nThese birds mainly eat insects, especially carpenter ants and wood-boring beetle larvae. They also eat fruits, nuts, and berries, including poison ivy berries. Pileated woodpeckers often chip out large and roughly rectangular holes in trees while searching out insects, especially ant colonies. They also lap up ants by reaching with their long tongues into crevices. They are self-assured on the vertical surfaces of large trees, but can seem awkward while feeding on small branches and vines. Pileated woodpeckers may also forage on or near the ground, especially around fallen, dead trees, which can contain a variety of insect life. They may forage around the sides of human homes or even cars, and can occasionally be attracted to suet-type feeders. Although they are less likely feeder visitors than smaller woodpeckers, pileateds may regularly be attracted to them in areas experiencing harsh winter conditions.\n\nUsually, pileated woodpeckers excavate their large nests in the cavities of dead trees. Woodpeckers make such large holes in dead trees that the holes can cause a small tree to break in half. The roost of a pileated woodpecker usually has multiple entrance holes. Pileated woodpeckers raise their young every year in a hole in a tree. In April, the hole made by the male attracts a female for mating and raising their young. Once the brood is raised, the pileated woodpeckers abandon the hole and do not use it the next year. When abandoned, these holes — made similarly by all woodpeckers — provide good homes in future years for many forest song birds and a wide variety of other animals. Owls and tree-nesting ducks may largely rely on holes made by pileateds in which to lay their nests. Even mammals such as raccoons may use them. Other woodpeckers and smaller birds such as wrens may be attracted to pileated holes to feed on the insects found in them. Ecologically, the entire woodpecker family is important to the well being of many other bird species. The pileated woodpecker also nests in boxes about off the ground.\nA pileated woodpecker pair stays together on its territory all year round and is not migratory. They defend the territory in all seasons, but tolerate floaters during the winter. When clashing with conspecifics, they engage in much chasing, calling, striking with the wings, and jabbing with the bill. Drumming is most commonly to proclaim a territory, and hollow trees are often used to make the most resonant sound possible. The display drum consists of a burst of 11 to 30 taps delivered in less than a second.\n\nPileated woodpeckers have been observed to move to another site if any eggs have fallen out of the nest — a rare habit in birds. The cavity is unlined except for wood chips. Both parents incubate three to five eggs for 12 to 16 days. The average clutch size is four per nest. The young may take a month to fledge. The oldest known pileated woodpecker was 12 years and 11 months old. Predators at the nest can include American martens, weasels, squirrels, rat snakes, and gray foxes. Free-flying adults have fewer predators, but can be taken in some numbers by Cooper's hawks, northern goshawks, red-tailed hawks, great horned owls, and barred owls.\n\nThe pileated woodpecker occupies a large range and is quite adaptable. Its ability to survive in many wooded habitat types has allowed the species to survive human habitation of North America much better than the more specialized ivory-billed woodpecker. Pileated woodpeckers have a large population size, and despite being nonmigratory, are protected under the U.S. Migratory Bird Act. While the large birds control many insect populations, especially tree beetles, that may otherwise experience outbreaks, some people may consider them harmful if found on their property due to the considerable damage that pileated woodpeckers can do to trees and homes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24027", "title": "Pope John Paul I", "text": "Pope John Paul I\n\nPope John Paul I (; ; born Albino Luciani; ; 17 October 191228 September 1978) served as Pope of the Catholic Church and sovereign of the Vatican City from 26 August 1978 to his death 33 days later. He was the first pope to have been born in the 20th century. His reign is among the shortest in papal history, resulting in the most recent year of three popes, the first to occur since 1605. John Paul I remains the most recent Italian-born pope, the last in a succession of such popes that started with Clement VII in 1523.\n\nHe was declared a Servant of God by his successor, John Paul II, on 23 November 2003, the first step on the road to sainthood. Pope Francis confirmed his heroic virtue on 8 November 2017 and named him as Venerable.\n\nBefore the papal conclave that elected him, he expressed his desire not to be elected, telling those close to him that he would decline the papacy if elected, but, upon the cardinals electing him, he felt an obligation to say yes. He was the first pontiff to have a double name, choosing \"John Paul\" in honour of his two immediate predecessors, John XXIII and Paul VI. He explained that he was indebted to John XXIII and to Paul VI for naming him a bishop and a cardinal, respectively. Furthermore, he was the first pope to add the regnal number \"I\", designating himself \"the First\".\n\nHis two immediate successors, John Paul II and Benedict XVI, later recalled the warm qualities of the late pontiff in several addresses. In Italy, he is remembered with the appellatives of \"Il Papa del Sorriso\" (\"The Smiling Pope\") and \"Il Sorriso di Dio\" (\"The smile of God\"). \"TIME\" magazine and other publications referred to him as \"The September Pope.\" He is also known in Italy as \"Papa Luciani\". In his town of birth, Canale d'Agordo, there is a museum that has been made and named in his honour that is dedicated to his life and his brief papacy.\n\nAlbino Luciani was born on 17 October 1912 in Forno di Canale (now Canale d'Agordo) in Belluno, a province of the Veneto region in Northern Italy. He was the son of Giovanni Luciani (c. 1872–1952), a bricklayer, and Bortola Tancon (c. 1879–1947). Albino was followed by two brothers, Federico (1915–1916) and Edoardo (1917–2008), and a sister, Antonia (1920–2010). He was baptised on the day he was born by the midwife because he was considered to be in danger of death, and the solemn rites of baptism were formalised in the parish church two days later.\n\nLuciani was a restless child, in 1922, aged 10, he was awestruck when a Capuchin friar came to his village to preach the Lenten sermons. From that moment he decided that he wanted to become a priest and went to his father to ask for his permission. His father agreed and said to him: \"I hope that when you become a priest you will be on the side of the workers, for Christ Himself would have been on their side\".\n\nLuciani entered the minor seminary of Feltre in 1923, where his teachers found him \"too lively\", and later went on to the major seminary of Belluno. During his stay at Belluno, he attempted to join the Jesuits but was denied by the seminary's rector, Bishop Giosuè Cattarossi.\n\nOrdained a priest on 7 July 1935, Luciani then served as a curate in his native Forno de Canale before becoming a professor and the vice-rector of the Belluno seminary in 1937. Among the different subjects, he taught dogmatic and moral theology, canon law and sacred art.\n\nIn 1941, Luciani started to work on a Doctorate of Sacred Theology from the Pontifical Gregorian University. This required at least one year's attendance in Rome. However, the Belluno seminary's superiors wanted him to continue teaching during his doctoral studies. The situation was resolved by a special dispensation by Pope Pius XII on 27 March 1941. His thesis (\"The origin of the human soul according to Antonio Rosmini\") largely attacked Rosmini's theology and earned him his doctorate \"magna cum laude\" in 1947.\n\nIn 1947, he was named chancellor to Bishop Girolamo Bortignon, OFM Cap, of Belluno. In 1954, he was named the vicar general for the Belluno diocese. Luciani was nominated for the position of Bishop several times but he was passed down each time due to his poor health, stature and his resigned appearance. In 1949, he published a book titled \"Catechesis in crumbs\". This book, his first, was about teaching the truths of the faith in a simple way, directly and comprehensible to all people.\n\nOn 15 December 1958, Luciani was appointed Bishop of Vittorio Veneto by Pope John XXIII. He received his episcopal consecration on the following 27 December from Pope John XXIII himself, with Bishops Bortignon and Gioacchino Muccin serving as the co-consecrators. In his first address to the people of his new diocese, Luciani stated: \"I would like to be a bishop who is a teacher and a servant\".\n\nAs a bishop, he participated in all the sessions of the Second Vatican Council (1962–1965). In 1958, he had taken \"Humilitas\" (\"Humility\") as his episcopal motto. He took possession of the diocese on 11 January 1959. On 18 April 1962, Luciani issued a pastoral letter, entitled \"Notes on the Council\", in order to alert the faithful to the structure of the proceedings and the overall purpose of the Council, chiefly, the doctrinal and practical issues. In 1966, he visited Burundi in East Africa.\n\nBetween 1965 and 1969 he faced the schism of Montaner: almost all the residents of Montaner, a frazione of Sarmede, decided to renounce Catholicism and embrace the Orthodox religion, because they had great disagreement with their bishop Monsignor Luciani. The people did not agree with Luciani's decision to appoint John Gava as a new priest in 1966 since the people wanted their own choice, rather than the one Luciani had settled on. The people then wanted a compromise: make their choice the parish's vice-rector if not parish priest. But Monsignor Luciani said the small village needed only one priest, and that he was the sole authority on priestly selection. Continually, he recommended new priests, but each was denied by the people. Finally, he was escorted by the police and took the Eucharist from the Montaner church, leaving the church unblessed, and waiting for their next move.\n\nOn 15 December 1969, he was appointed as the new Patriarch of Venice by Pope Paul VI and he took possession of his new archdiocese on 3 February 1970. On 1 February 1970, he received honorary citizenship of the town of Vittorio Veneto, where he had previously served as its bishop.\n\nAt the Synod of Bishops held in Rome in 1971, to which he was personally invited by the pope, Luciani suggested to the bishops assembled that dioceses in countries that were heavily industrialised should relinquish around 1% of all their income to Third World nations to be given \"not as alms, but something that is owed. Owed to compensate for the injustices that our consumer-oriented world is committing towards the 'world on the way to development' and to in some way make reparation for social sin, of which we must become aware\".\n\nPope Paul VI created Luciani the Cardinal-Priest of San Marco in the consistory on 5 March 1973.\n\nDuring his time as Patriarch of Venice, Luciani clashed with priests who supported the liberalisation of divorce in Italy, eventually suspending some of them. At the same time, he was opposed to the 1974 referendum restricting divorce after it had been liberalised, feeling that such a move would fail and simply point out a divided Church with declining influence.\n\nIn 1975, Luciani travelled to Germany in May. Later that year (6–21 November), he visited Brazil where he met with members of the clergy, including Cardinal Aloísio Lorscheider. Upon his return to Italy, he suffered an embolus in his right eye. A few months after that, Luciani also made a visit to Fatima. While there, he met with Sister Lucia dos Santos, the surviving visionary of three children who claimed to see apparitions of the Blessed Virgin Mary back in 1917, revered under the title of Our Lady of Fatima. When Cardinal Luciani met Sister Lucia, she referred to him as \"Holy Father\". This greeting shocked the humble cardinal. In January 1976, he published \"Illustrissimi\" (\"To the Illustrious Ones\"), a collection of letters penned by him in previous years, whimsically addressed to historical and literary figures such as Dickens, G. K. Chesterton, Maria Theresa of Austria, Saint Teresa of Avila, Goethe, Figaro, Pinocchio, the Pickwick Club, King David and Jesus. These letters written in very clear and simple, yet often witty language as a way of relating elements of the Gospel to modern life.\n\nIn 1975, he suggested that there be disciplinary punishment for priests who spoke out in favor of the Communist Party or other leftist groups.\n\nIn 1976, Luciani sold a gold cross and pectoral gold chain that Pope John XXIII had given to him (which once belonged to Pope Pius XII before him) to raise money for disabled children. He also urged fellow priests in Venice to sell their valuables to contribute to this cause and as a way for them to live simply and humbly.\n\nAs Patriarch of Venice, Luciani would establish family counseling clinics to assist the poor cope with marital, financial and sexual problems. He was seen as a champion of the poor and he even once ordered the sale of gold in churches to provide money to help handicapped children. He was also against worker priests—those who went to work in the factories and fields to labor with the laity—and he also criticised unions over strikes and workers' demonstrations.\n\nPope Paul VI died on 6 August 1978, ending a reign of fifteen years. Luciani had gone to the late pope's funeral and mingled with the crowds who wanted to view the body of the late pope. In a certain moment, he thought he would not reach the body. But finally he was recognised once he had arrived and was then led to another place and was offered a bench to kneel and pray.\n\nLuciani was summoned to Rome for the conclave to elect the new pope. Luciani was not considered papabile at the time though mentioned upon occasion in several papers, but a few cardinals approached him with their opinion that he would make a fine pontiff. The electors did not want a Curial figure, as Paul VI had been, but a warm and pastoral figure like Pope John XXIII.\n\nLuciani was elected on the fourth ballot of the August 1978 papal conclave. Luciani had previously said to his secretary, Father Diego Lorenzi and to Father Prospero Grech (later a cardinal himself), that he would decline the papacy if elected, and that he intended to vote for Aloísio Cardinal Lorscheider, whom he met in Brazil. Cardinal Jaime Sin of the Philippines told him: \"You will be the new pope.\"\nHowever, when he was asked by Cardinal Jean-Marie Villot if he accepted his election, Luciani replied, \"May God forgive you for what you have done\" but accepted election. After his election, when Cardinal Sin paid him homage, the new pope said: \"You were a prophet, but my reign will be a short one\". On the balcony of St Peter's Basilica, protodeacon Cardinal Pericle Felici announced that the cardinals had elected Albino Luciani, Patriarch of Venice, who had chosen the name Pope John Paul I. It was the first time that a pope chose a double name. He later explained that the double name was taken to gratefully honour his two immediate predecessors: John XXIII, who had named him a bishop, and Paul VI, who had named him Patriarch of Venice and Cardinal. He was also the first pope to designate himself \"the First\" with the name. (Pope Francis, elected in 2013, also took a previously-unused papal name but chose not to be called \"the First\".)\n\nIn the aftermath of the election, the pope confided to his brother Edoardo that his first thought was to call himself \"Pius XIII\" in honour of Pope Pius XI, but he gave up on the idea, worried that the traditionalist members of the Church might exploit this choice of regnal name.\n\nObservers have suggested that his selection was a compromise to satisfy rumoured divisions among seemingly rival camps within the College of Cardinals:\n\n\nDuring the days following the conclave, the cardinals were generally elated at the reaction to Pope John Paul I, some of them happily saying that they had elected \"God's candidate\". Argentine Cardinal Eduardo Francisco Pironio stated, \"We were witnesses of a moral miracle.\" Mother Teresa, commenting about the new pope, \"He has been the greatest gift of God, a sun beam of God's love shining in the darkness of the world.\" British primate Basil Cardinal Hume declared: \"Once it had happened, it seemed totally and entirely right ... We felt as if our hands were being guided as we wrote his name on the paper\".\n\nA dramatic event, soon after the election, occurred when the leader of the delegation from the Russian Orthodox Church, Metropolitan Nikodim (Rotov) of Leningrad, collapsed and died after a ceremony on 5 September 1978. The new pope immediately came over and prayed for him.\n\nAfter he became pope he had set six plans down which would dictate his pontificate:\n\n\nAfter his election, John Paul I quickly made several decisions that would \"humanise\" the office of pope, admitting publicly he had turned scarlet when Paul VI placed his stole on Luciani's shoulders while the pontiff visited Venice on 16 September 1972. He was the first modern pope to speak in the singular form, using 'I' instead of the royal \"we\", though the official records of his speeches were often rewritten in more formal style by aides, who reinstated the royal \"we\" in press releases and in \"L'Osservatore Romano.\" He initially refused to use the \"sedia gestatoria\" until others convinced him of its need in order to allow himself to be seen by crowds. He was the last pope to use it. He was the first pope to refuse to be crowned. Instead of a coronation, he inaugurated his papacy with a \"papal inauguration\" where he received the papal pallium as the symbol of his position as Bishop of Rome.\n\nThe moral theology of John Paul I had been openly debated because of his opinions expressed on a number of issues, particularly birth control. It is debated whether John Paul I was liberal, conservative, or a moderate in matters of church doctrine, thus it is difficult to assess his views.\n\nIt is certain that John Paul I would not have reversed Paul VI's teaching, namely on contraception, since it was a question of sexual ethics and Church doctrine, rather than one of personal opinion. Nevertheless, it is reasonable to assume that John Paul I would not have insisted upon the negative judgment in \"Humanae vitae\" as aggressively and publicly as John Paul II did. Luciani had mixed feelings in regards to the traditional stance on contraception. In 1968, as Bishop of Vittorio Veneto, he submitted a report to his predecessor as the Patriarch of Venice, Giovanni Urbani, that argued that the contraceptive pill should be permitted. It was agreed on by fellow Veneto bishops and was later submitted to Pope Paul VI. When \"Humanae vitae\" was released, Luciani defended that document. But he seemed to contradict that defence in a letter he wrote to his diocese four days after the release of the encyclical. In May 1978, Cardinal Luciani was invited to speak at a Milanese conference to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the encyclical. He refused to speak at the event or even attend it.\n\nSome take a different view, describing that while serving as Patriarch of Venice, \"Luciani was intransigent with his upholding of the teaching of the Church and severe with those, who through intellectual pride and disobedience paid no attention to the Church's prohibition of contraception,\" though while not condoning the sin, he was patient with those who sincerely tried and failed to live up to the Church's teaching.\"\n\nIn his letter to Carlo Goldoni from the book \"Illustrissimi\", Luciani took a critical perspective of abortion and argued that it violated God's law and that it went against the deepest aspirations of women, profoundly disturbing them.\n\nIn an interview before the death of Pope Paul VI in 1978 when asked for his reaction to the birth of the first test-tube baby Louise Brown, Luciani expressed concerns about the possibility that artificial insemination could lead to women being used as \"baby factories\" but he refused to condemn the parents.\n\nIt was his view that, \"from every side the press is sending its congratulations to the English couple and best wishes to their baby girl. In imitation of God, who desires and loves human life, I too offer my best wishes to the baby girl. As for her parents, I do not have any right to condemn them; subjectively, if they have acted with the right intention and in good faith, they may even obtain great merit before God for what they have decided on and asked the doctors to carry out.\" Luciani added, \"Getting down, however, to the act in itself, and good faith aside, the moral problem which is posed is: is extrauterine fertilization in vitro or in a test tube, licit?... I do not find any valid reasons to deviate from this norm, by declaring licit the separation of the transmission of life from the marriage act.\"\n\nIn 1969, Luciani was cautious of de facto relationships as a lesser evil to divorce. He said that unions like those shouldn't be the same as marriage but he added that \"there are, in undeniably pathological family situations, painful cases. To remedy that, some propose a divorce, which, conversely, would aggravate this. But some remedy outside of divorce, you can't really find? Once the legitimate family is protected and made a place of honor, you will not be able to recognize with all appropriate precautions some civil effect to de facto unions.\"\n\nIn a 1974 interview while he was the Patriarch of Venice, Luciani upheld the traditional line: \"A sexuality that is worthy of man must be a part of love for a person of a different sex with the added commitments of fidelity and indissolubility.\"\n\nIn a 1975 talk Luciani gave to a group of sisters, he expressed his views on the ordination of women into the priesthood:\n\nJohn Paul I reiterated the official views of the church in regards to Marxism and Catholicism being incompatible and believed it to be a \"weapon to disobey\" the Christian faith. As Patriarch of Venice, he struggled at times with Marxist students who were demanding changes in Venetian policies. He also forbade those factions that were Marxist threatening the faith.\n\nJohn Paul I was a friend to the Muslim people and as Patriarch of Venice said to Catholics that faithful Muslims had the \"right to build a mosque\" to practice their faith in the archdiocese. In November 1964 he explained the declaration of Dignitatis humanae: \"There are 4,000 Muslims in Rome: they have the right to build a mosque. There is nothing to say: you have to let them do it\".\n\nLuciani stressed the need throughout his time as Bishop of Vittorio Veneto to answer the universal call to holiness as was an invitation in the Second Vatican Council. He believed that sainthood was something that all Catholics could achieve if they led a life of service to God. Luciani said that there were no barriers to sainthood and discussed this theme of the council in a homily on 6 January 1962: \"We are called by God to be true saints\". Luciani stressed the importance of this and said God invites Catholics and obligates them to sainthood. He also said that by professing love for God, Catholics say: \"my God I want to be holy, I will strive to be holy\".\n\nDuring his brief pontificate, John Paul I spoke three times on the concept of God's mercy. In his General Audience address on 13 September 1978, the pope said that the entire point of mercy is \"to surrender to God\" through faith in Him, which goes about \"transforming one's life\" in the fight against sin, and the pursuit of holiness. The pope continued that \"God has so much tenderness for us\" in which \"He begs me to repent\" from sin so as to return to God's embrace. The pope concluded that \"the Church too must be good; good to everyone\" in its own outreach to the faithful.\n\nJohn Paul I, in his Angelus address on 24 September 1978, spoke about the importance of doing good deeds through charitable and merciful acts in society, as to make the world more just, and to improve the overall conditions of society. The pope elaborated that it was important to \"try to be good and to infect others with a goodness imbued with the meekness and love taught by Christ\", while seeking to give our all in service to others. The pope further points out Christ's example on the Cross, in which he forgave and excused those who persecuted, referring to it as a sentiment which \"would help society so much\" if put into constant practice.\n\nThe pope also spoke about mercy in his address at the General Audience on 27 September 1978, in which he referred to God as \"infinite good\" capable of providing for our \"eternal happiness\" in His love for us. John Paul I continued that it may be \"difficult to love others; we do not find them likeable, they have offended us and hurt us\", though says that forgiveness between brothers and sisters is very important for unity and peace among people. Additionally, the pope referred to the seven corporal and spiritual acts of mercy, which he said acted as a guide for Christians, though highlighting the fact that \"the list is not complete and it would be necessary to update it\" as times change since global situations change. The pope concluded that justice adds to charity, which is linked to the theme of mercy.\n\nPrior to his election, Luciani wrote an article on 25 July 1978 for Il Gazettino di Venezia analyzing some of the aspects of Josemaría Escrivá's teachings of Opus Dei. He stated that he was more of a radical figure as opposed to other saints who taught about the universal call to holiness. While others emphasised monastic spirituality applied to lay people, for Escrivá \"it is the material work itself which must be turned into prayer and sanctity\", thus providing a lay spirituality.\n\nLuciani had attended all sessions of the Second Vatican Council (1962–65) while he was the Bishop of Vittorio Veneto. He had hoped that the council would highlight \"Christian optimism\" in terms of Christ's teachings against the culture of relativism. He denounced a fundamental ignorance of the \"basic elements of the faith\"—it was this point that he wished to focus on as opposed to secularism throughout the world.\n\nIn terms of global interpretation of the council, Luciani wrote: \"The physiognomy and structure of the Catholic Church have been determined once and for all by the Lord and cannot be touched. If anything, superstructures can. Things that have not been determined by Christ, but were introduced by popes or councils or the faithful, can be changed, or eliminated today or tomorrow. Yesterday they might have introduced a certain number of dioceses, a certain way to lead missions, to educate priests, they might have chosen to follow certain cultural trends. Well, this can be changed and one can say \"the Church that comes out of the Council is still the same as it was yesterday, but renewed\". No one can ever say \"We have a new Church, different from what it was\".\n\nIn regards to religious freedom, Luciani wrote about the council's declaration, \"Dignitatis humanae\". In his writings, he said that there is only one true religion that must be followed and no other, affirming that Jesus Christ is the Truth, and that the truth will set one truly free. Though, he said that those that will not accept the one true Catholic Faith, for whatever reason, are indeed free to profess their own religion for various reasons. He makes a clear understanding of true and false liberty. He says that true freedom comes from God, that God makes man free. However, he does continue in repeating the teaching that error does not come from God, and although we are capable or err and sin, and that one who rejects truth cannot be forced to believe it, it is not a God given \"right\" to do error. He continues to say that religious freedom must be freely exercised by the individual. He writes that the choice of religion must be a free choice or else one's faith is not real or because they really believe. So he makes clear that for the purposes of keeping peace and order in a diverse society and accepting the free will of man, the freedom of an individual to profess their religion, within certain bounds, is indeed necessary.\n\nOn 12 September 1978, Cardinal Mario Casariego y Acevedo of Guatemala invited the pope to visit Guatemala in 1979. The pope was said to have thanked him for the invitation but did not provide a response. The week before this, the pope said he was unable to accept an invitation to the Latin American Episcopal Conference in Puebla, Mexico for October due to his schedule.\n\nNo saints were canonised nor people beatified in his brief term on the papal throne, but José Gras y Granollers, Juan Vicente Zengotitabenoga Lausen and Giuseppe Beschin were made Servants of God during his pontificate on 22 September 1978.\n\nJohn Paul I was regarded as a skilled communicator and writer. His book \"Illustrissimi,\" written while he was a cardinal, is a series of letters to a wide collection of historical and fictional persons. Among those still available are his letters to Jesus, King David, Figaro the Barber, Empress Maria Theresa and Pinocchio. Others 'written to' included Mark Twain, Charles Dickens and Christopher Marlowe. He was also well-read, and was known for reading several newspapers each morning, including one from the Veneto region, before beginning his day.\n\nJohn Paul I impressed people with his personal warmth. There are reports that within the Vatican he was seen as an intellectual lightweight not up to the responsibilities of the papacy, although David Yallop (\"In God's Name\") says that this is the result of a whispering campaign by people in the Vatican who were opposed to Luciani's policies. In the words of John Cornwell, \"they treated him with condescension\"; one senior cleric discussing Luciani said \"they have elected Peter Sellers.\" Critics contrasted his sermons mentioning \"Pinocchio\" to the learned intellectual discourses of Pius XII or Paul VI. Visitors spoke of his isolation and loneliness and the fact that he was the first pope in decades not to have previously held either a diplomatic role (like Pius XI and John XXIII) or Curial role (like Pius XII and Paul VI) in the Church.\n\nHis personal impact, however, was twofold: his image as a warm, gentle and kind man captivated the whole world. This image was immediately formed when he was presented to the crowd in St. Peter's Square following his election. The warmth of his presence made him a much-loved figure before he even spoke a word. The media in particular fell under his spell. He was a very skilled orator.\n\nAccording to his aides, he was not the naive idealist his critics made him out to be. Cardinal Giuseppe Caprio, the substitute Papal Secretary of State, said that John Paul I quickly accepted his new role and performed it with confidence.\n\nJohn Paul I had admitted that the prospect of the papacy had daunted him to the point that other cardinals had to encourage him to accept it. He refused to have the millennium-old traditional Papal Coronation and wear the Papal Tiara. He instead chose to have a simplified Papal Inauguration Mass. John Paul I used as his motto \"Humilitas\". In his notable \"Angelus\" of 27 August 1978 (delivered on the first full day of his papacy), he impressed the world with his natural friendliness.\n\nSister Margherita Marin, who worked in the Vatican during Luciani's papacy, said in comments made in late 2017 that the pope had admitted the sisters into his apartment chapel for morning Mass, unlike his predecessor Paul VI who had only admitted his secretaries. Marin also said that Luciani would speak the Venetian dialect with those Venetian sisters to make them more comfortable, and to better interact with them. The religious also noted that the pope's humor was evident to all those who spoke with him, and he would often joke with the sisters when seeing his picture in the papers: \"But you see how they got me\", in reference to the quality of his picture.\n\nOn 29 September 1978, 33 days into his papacy, John Paul I was found dead \"lying in his bed, with a book opened beside him, and the reading light on. According to a Vatican doctor, he probably died around 11 p.m [...] of a heart attack\" that occurred on 28 September.\n\nJohn Paul I's funeral was held in Saint Peter's Square on 4 October 1978, celebrated by Cardinal Carlo Confalonieri. In his eulogy of the late pope, he described him as a flashing comet who briefly lit up the church. He then was laid to rest in the Vatican grottoes.\n\nIt was said that around 10:00 on the night of his death, the pope learned that several young neo-Fascists had fired upon a group of young people reading \"L'Unità\", the Communist newspaper, outside one of the party's offices in Rome. One boy was killed while another was seriously wounded. The pope lamented to John Magee, \"Even the young are killing each other.\" He later retired to his room to read Thomas à Kempis' \"The Imitation of Christ\" in bed.\n\nThere are several conspiracy speculations related to his death.\n\nThe journalist and vice-postulator for Luciani's cause of canonization, Stefania Falasca, published a new book in 2017 titled \"Pope Luciani, Chronicle of a Death\", in which she revealed that John Paul I had complained of chest pains hours before his death, and the evening before, but paid no attention to it and ordered that his doctor not be called. Falasca confirmed, after interviewing the sisters who found him and documents from the Vatican Secret Archives, that Luciani died of a heart attack in late evening hours of 28 September.\n\nThe Cardinal Secretary of State Pietro Parolin, in his preface for the book, describes the various conspiracies regarding Luciani's death as little more than \"noir reconstructions\". Parolin further says that the sudden death of the pope inspired a \"myriad of theories, suspicions, [and] suppositions\" based in opinion rather than in fact.\n\nFalasca noted the 2009 testimony of Sister Margherita Marin (b. 1941), who was one of the two sisters that found the pope dead in his bedroom on the morning of 29 September. John Paul I had made it a practice to have a morning coffee in the sacristy and then go into the chapel to pray before tending to the day's matters. Sister Vincenza had noted the pope had not touched the coffee she had left for him in the sacristy at 5:15am (after about ten minutes) and went looking for him but found him dead, and hastily summoned Marin who also went into the room. Marin testified that Luciani's hands were cold, and she was struck by the darkness of his nails. Sister Vincenza said: \"He hasn't come out yet? Why not? and knocked a few more times but heard silence, then opening the door and walking in. Marin remained in the hallway but heard the elder sister say: \"Your Holiness, you shouldn't pull these jokes on me\" because Sister Vincenza also had heart problems. Marin further testified that original information provided by the Vatican regarding who discovered the pope was wrong, since it had originally been claimed the pope's secretaries Lorenzi and Magee did. Marin testified that \"he was in bed with a slight smile\" on his face. The reading light over the headboard was still on, with his two pillows under his back propping him up, with his legs outstretched and his arms on top of the bedsheets. Luciani was still in his pajamas with a few typewritten sheets in his hands. His head was slightly turned to the right and his eyes were partially closed; his glasses rested on his nose.\n\nLuciani had suffered a severe pain in his chest for about five minutes around 7:30pm while sitting reciting the vespers in the chapel with Magee before dinner and rejected all suggestions for calling Doctor Renato Buzzonetti. The latter, the book claimed, was informed of that episode after the pope's death. The book also revealed that, prior to the conclave that elected John Paul II, the cardinals had sent a series of written questions to the doctors who had embalmed Luciani either on 10 or 11 October to check if there had been any signs of traumatic injuries, so as to ascertain if he died naturally rather than suspiciously. Doctor Buzzonetti sent a detailed report to the Cardinal Secretary of State Agostino Casaroli on 9 October 1979 detailing the episode of pain Luciani suffered was in the upper part of the sternal region.\n\nSister Margherita noted in late 2017 in comments made in Belluno that the pope had made a half-hour phone call in the evening of his death to the Cardinal Archbishop of Milan Giovanni Colombo in which he confided to Colombo that he wanted the Salesian rector major Egidio Viganò to accept a to-be-announced nomination as Luciani's successor as the Patriarch of Venice.\n\nThe process for the canonisation for John Paul I formally began in 1990 with the petition by 226 Brazilian bishops, including four cardinals. The petition was addressed directly to Pope John Paul II.\n\nOn 26 August 2002, Bishop Vincenzo Savio announced the start of the preliminary phase to collect documents and testimonies necessary to start the process of canonisation. On 8 June 2003 the Congregation for the Causes of Saints gave its assent to the work and on 17 June transferred the forum for the beatification process from Rome to Belluno-Feltre while also declaring the late pope as a Servant of God after declaring \"nihil obstat\" (no objections to the cause). On 23 November, on the Feast of Christ the King, the diocesan process formally opened in the Cathedral Basilica of Belluno with Cardinal José Saraiva Martins in charge and presiding over the inauguration. The diocesan inquiry for the cause subsequently concluded on 11 November 2006 in Belluno with all the evidence collected being sent to the C.C.S. which received their validation on 13 June 2008. On 13 June 2008, the Vatican began the \"Roman\" phase of the beatification process for John Paul I, in which they would assess the documents and witness testimonies collected during the diocesan inquiry.\n\nThe documents in regards to the cause were supposed to be delivered to the prefect of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints, Cardinal Angelo Amato on 17 October 2012 (the hundred year anniversary of the late pope's birth), in a large Positio dossier (consisting of a biography and investigation into his virtues) to examine the pros and cons of the cause. This was delayed due to the cause's supporters wanting another check over all the documents. In a mass at Belluno on 20 July 2014, Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone announced that the cause of beatification was set to advance. The cardinal highlighted that the Positio would be delivered in September 2014. But the dossier was not submitted to the C.C.S. until 17 October 2016; there were five volumes with around 3600 pages in total.\n\nOn 27 August 2015, Bishop Giuseppe Andrich announced that John Paul I would be beatified \"soon\". In a homily delivered during Mass in Canale d'Agordo, Luciani's home town, on the 37th anniversary of his election as Pope, Andrich said Church authorities had concluded the investigation into Luciani's heroic virtues. Following the conclusion of the \"Positio\" (3652 pages in total), they received several messages affirming personal experience of Luciani's holiness, including a handwritten card from Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI. The testimony of a Pope or former Pope in considering a candidate for sainthood is extremely unusual. Benedict XVI apparently recommended waiving the requirement for miracles in Luciani's case.\n\nTo determine whether the late pontiff should or not be declared Venerable, theologians and the members of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints must determine if the late pope lived a life of heroic virtue. This meeting took place on 1 June 2017 in which theologians unanimously approved the fact that the late pope exercised virtues to a heroic degree. The cardinal and bishop members discussed the cause on 7 November 2017 and issued their unanimous approval.\n\nPope Francis named John Paul I as Venerable on 8 November 2017 after confirming his heroic virtue.\n\nFor Luciani to be beatified, the investigators have to certify at least one miracle attributed to his intercession. For canonisation there must be a second miracle, though the reigning pope may waive these requirements altogether, as is often done in the case of beatified popes.\n\nIt was reported in 2016 that a potential miracle attributed to the late pontiff's intercession occurred in to a nun in Buenos Aires in Argentina.\n\nThe postulation also drew upon the testimony of Giuseppe Denora di Altamura who claimed to have been cured of cancer by the intercession of the late pontiff. An official investigation into the alleged miracle commenced on 14 May 2007 and concluded on 30 May 2009 with the C.C.S. validating the process on 25 March 2010. Of course, the C.C.S. could not begin their thorough investigation into this case until the decree on his virtues was signed.\n\nThe supposed miracle attributed to his intercession was taken to a medical board in Rome on 24 April 2015 and the commission came to the conclusion that it was not a miracle that could be attributed to Luciani. This means that another miracle will need to be found before the cause can continue.\n\nThe postulator for the cause was Bishop Enrico dal Covolo from 2003 until 2016 when Cardinal Beniamino Stella was appointed to that position. Stefania Falasca is the current vice-postulator.\n\nPope John Paul I was the first pope to abandon coronation, and he was also the first pope to choose a double name (John Paul) for his papal name. His successor, Cardinal Karol Jozef Wojtyła, chose the same name. He was the first pope to have a Papal Inauguration and the last pope to use the \"Sedia Gestatoria\". He is the first Pope born in the 20th century, and the last Pope to die in the 20th century.\n\nCardinal Karol Wojtyła was elected John Paul I's successor as Pope on Monday, 16 October 1978. The next day he celebrated Mass together with the College of Cardinals in the Sistine Chapel. After the Mass, he delivered his first \"Urbi et Orbi\" (a traditional blessing) message, broadcast worldwide via radio. In it he pledged fidelity to the Second Vatican Council and paid tribute to his predecessor:\n\nBenedict XVI spoke of the late pontiff on 28 September 2008 during his weekly Angelus address. Of the late pope, he said:\n\nPope Francis spoke of his predecessor in his 2016 book \"The Name of God Is Mercy\" in which Francis recalls how touched he was by his predecessor's writings. More than any of his predecessors mentioned in his book, Francis refers to Luciani the most. The pope referred to Luciani's remarks at the latter's general audience of 6 September 1978 and mentioned how profound that his words were upon him; of the remarks Luciani made, he said:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6107563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6107563", "title": "Pulse-coupled networks", "text": "Pulse-coupled networks\n\nPulse-coupled networks or pulse-coupled neural networks (PCNNs) are neural models proposed by modeling a cat’s visual cortex, and developed for high-performance biomimetic image processing.\n\nIn 1989, Eckhorn introduced a neural model to emulate the mechanism of cat’s visual cortex. The Eckhorn model provided a simple and effective tool for studying small mammal’s visual cortex, and was soon recognized as having significant application potential in image processing. \n\nIn 1994, Johnson adapted the Eckhorn model to an image processing algorithm, calling this algorithm a \"pulse-coupled neural network.\" Over the past decade, PCNNs have been used in a variety of image processing applications, including: image segmentation, feature generation, face extraction, motion detection, region growing, and noise reduction.\n\nThe basic property of the Eckhorn's linking-field model (LFM) is the coupling term. LFM is a modulation of the primary input by a biased offset factor driven by the linking input. These drive a threshold variable that decays from an initial high value. When the threshold drops below zero it is reset to a high value and the process starts over. This is different than the standard integrate-and-fire neural model, which accumulates the input until it passes an upper limit and effectively \"shorts out\" to cause the pulse.\n\nLFM uses this difference to sustain pulse bursts, something the standard model does not do on a single neuron level. It is valuable to understand, however, that a detailed analysis of the standard model must include a shunting term, due to the floating voltages level in the dendritic compartment(s), and in turn this causes an elegant multiple modulation effect that enables a true higher-order network (HON). Multidimensional pulse image processing of chemical structure data using PCNN has been discussed by Kinser, et al.\n\nA PCNN is a two-dimensional neural network. Each neuron in the network corresponds to one pixel in an input image, receiving its corresponding pixel’s color information (e.g. intensity) as an external stimulus. Each neuron also connects with its neighboring neurons, receiving local stimuli from them. The external and local stimuli are combined in an internal activation system, which accumulates the stimuli until it exceeds a dynamic threshold, resulting in a pulse output. Through iterative computation, PCNN neurons produce temporal series of pulse outputs. The temporal series of pulse outputs contain information of input images and can be used for various image processing applications, such as image segmentation and feature generation. Compared with conventional image processing means, PCNNs have several significant merits, including robustness against noise, independence of geometric variations in input patterns, capability of bridging minor intensity variations in input patterns, etc.\n\nA simplified PCNN called a spiking cortical model was developed in 2009.\n\nPCNNs are useful for image processing, as discussed in a book by Thomas Lindblad and Jason M. Kinser.\n\nPCNN is proven success in many academic and industrial fields, such as image processing (image denoising, and image enhancement ), all pairs shortest path problem, and pattern recognition.\n"}
{"id": "8134287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8134287", "title": "Quality Management Maturity Grid", "text": "Quality Management Maturity Grid\n\nThe Quality Management Maturity Grid (QMMG) is an organizational maturity matrix conceived by Philip B. Crosby first published in his book \"Quality is Free\" in 1979. The QMMG is used by a business or organization as a benchmark of how mature their processes are, and how well they are embedded in their culture, with respect to service or product quality management.\n\nThe QMMG is credited with being the precursor maturity model for the Capability Maturity Model (CMM) created a decade later that also has five levels of maturity. \n\nThe Quality Management Maturity Grid describes 5 maturity levels through which an organization or business will go through:\n\n"}
{"id": "3804771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3804771", "title": "Ram (comics)", "text": "Ram (comics)\n\nRam is a fictional Japanese superhero published by DC Comics. He first appeared in \"Millennium\" #2 (January 1988), and was created by Steve Engelhart and Joe Staton.\n\nTakeo Yakata is chosen by the Guardians of the Universe to be evolutionarily advanced, and becomes the cybernetically enhanced Ram. This places him square in the sights of the Manhunters, a race of ancient robots who hate the Guardians. They try and kill him and the others chosen to be advanced. The survivors form a new team and operate independently for some time. For a while, Ram lived on an isolated island with his friends, while they tried to work towards their mission of peace. When Guy Gardner tries to take control of the team, they attempt to resist peacefully and ultimately fail.\n\nRam and many of the Guardians have been absorbed by the entity called 'Entropy' where they telepathically assist Hal Jordan in its defeat.\n\nRam's picture is shown along with pictures of other superheroes that were kidnapped and killed in Roulette's casino.\n\nIn the \"Watchmen\" sequel \"Doomsday Clock,\" Ram is listed as a member of Japan's superhero team called Big Monster Action.\n\nRam has advanced evolutionary from the Guardians of the Universe, just like the rest of his team. \nThis turns his entire body into crystalline electronics. He is invulnerable to most physical attacks. His enhancement made him a technopath, allowing him to access satellites and wireless networks, and send information through them.\n\n"}
{"id": "45638041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45638041", "title": "Senolytic", "text": "Senolytic\n\nA senolytic (from the words “senescence” and “lytic” – destroying) is among the class of small molecules under basic research to determine if they can selectively induce death of senescent cells. The goal of those working to develop senolytic agents is to delay, prevent, alleviate, or reverse age-related diseases.\n\nMultiple possible senolytic agents are under investigation. Certain anti-cancer agents may in low doses decelerate aging and age-related diseases. Targeting cancer prevention pathways with anti-cancer agents may confer longevity effects by offering protection from metabolic pathologies during aging, independently of effects on cancer. Navitoclax, also known as ABT-263, was originally studied as an anti-cancer drug.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17749739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17749739", "title": "Tigers of Chowgarh", "text": "Tigers of Chowgarh\n\nThe Tigers of Chowgarh were a pair of man-eating Bengal tigers, consisting of an old tigress and her sub-adult cub, which for over a five-year period killed a reported 64 people in eastern Kumaon over an area spanning . The tigress was attacking humans initially alone, but later she was assisted by her sub-adult cub. The figures however are uncertain, as the natives of the areas the tigers frequented claimed double that number, and they do not take into account victims who survived direct attacks but died subsequently. Both tigers were killed by Jim Corbett.\n\nOn December 15, 1925, a group of men from the village of Dalkania went up a hill to the hut of a Bhutia in order to complain to him for having seemingly allowed his goats into their crop fields. The man’s sheep dog was found dead, and the next day, his remains were found 100 yards from the hut.\n\nJim Corbett was called upon from Nainital to hunt down the tigers in February 1929. Three man-eaters had been reported in the Kumaon Division at the time, and Corbett chose to hunt the Chowgarh tigers due to their higher body count. A map recording the sites of each kill showed that the tigers were most active in the villages of the north-eastern face of the Kala Agar ridge. Corbett arrived at the Kala Agar Forest Bungalow in April that year after a four-day march. The last victim in the area had been a 22-year-old cattle grazer. The victim’s grandmother offered Corbett three buffaloes, in addition to his four, for use as bait. Upon receiving updates on the tigers' whereabouts, Corbett set off to the village of Dalkania away the next day. Upon arriving, he was informed that the tigers had unsuccessfully attacked a party of women picking corn north of Dalkania. Corbett left for the village at 3:00 p.m. and arrived the next day, where he found the village in a state of panic.\n\nAt midday, Corbett left for the valley where the villagers had heard the tigers calling. By evening, he reached the upper end of the valley without having seen anything, and by the following afternoon, Corbett was met by a cattle grazer stating that the tigers had taken a cow that night. Tracking the tigers to a ravine, he found the predators eating the dead cow. Corbett fired at the lighter-coloured animal, assuming it was the adult. Upon hearing the shot, the other tiger bolted, and Corbett, upon examining the carcass, found that the dead tiger was in fact the cub. After the cub was shot, the tigress attacks on human became less successful, as she was sometimes unable to kill victims on her own.\n\nThe following day, Corbett decided to use the four buffalo baits. For ten days, there were no reports of attacks and the buffalos were untouched. On the eleventh day, a woman was attacked half a mile on the far side of the village. After dressing her wounds, Corbett tied a bait goat on a nearby tree, though it was not taken. Three days later, Corbett was informed that a woman had been killed in Lohali, a village five miles (8 km) to the south of Dalkania. Upon arrival, Corbett was approached by a village elder who implored him to save his daughter who had escaped from the tiger with serious injuries. Though Corbett dressed her wounds with permanganate, she died the following night. After a week, Corbett left Dalkania, though he promised to return upon hearing of another attack. During the journey, Corbett saw fresh pugmarks, and warned a buffalo herder nearby to be wary. Immediately after Corbett left, the herder was attacked by the tigress, which was driven off by the buffaloes. Before dying, the herder warned his village of the tigress’s presence.\n\nIn February the next year, Corbett returned to Dalkania, where many deaths had occurred since his departure. Corbett tied a buffalo in the forest near the village, and shot two tigers accepting the bait. Upon inspecting the carcasses, he found that neither were the man-eater. After staying in Dalkania for a few weeks, Corbett left to attend an appointment with the district officials in the terai.\n\nOn 22 March 1930, Corbett received an urgent request from his District Commissioner to go to Kala Agar, fifty miles from Nainital. On arrival, Corbett was told that the tigress had recently killed a woman in the vicinity. Corbett tied his four buffaloes from Dalkania in strategic locations, one of which was killed four nights later. The culprits turned out to be a pair of leopards, which were immediately shot in order to prevent them killing more bait.\n\nOn 11 April 1930, nineteen days after his arrival in Kala Agar, Corbett, along with two other men, tied the buffalo baits near an area where a young man had been previously killed. When positioning himself in a ravine, Corbett’s companions rushed to him, saying they had heard the tigress nearby. Corbett encountered the tigress face to face shortly after, sitting next to a large boulder. Corbett fatally shot the animal from a distance of eight feet, whose death coincided with an end to the attacks.\n\nAn examination of the tigress’ body showed that her claws and one canine tooth were broken and her front teeth were completely worn down. It was these disabilities that Corbett concluded led this tigress to having become a man eater as it was thus hampered in killing wild game.\n\nCorbett used two calibres of rifles in hunting these man eating tigers. One was a very heavy calibre double-barrelled rifle, a \"450/400\", which was also quite heavy to carry. His second gun was a lighter calibre rifle, which he refers to as his 275 Rigby. This calibre is identical to that known the world over as the \"7x57 Mauser\", which shoots a bullet that is 7 millimetre in diameter. Corbett's own \"275\" rifle was actually a Model 1898 Mauser made by John Rigby & Co. with five round magazine capacity. It was this \"275\" with which he killed the Chowgarh tigress described above on 11 April 1930 at a location Corbett describes as being \"two miles west of Kala Agar\", a mountain village at the time.\n\nCorbett has not mentioned anywhere in his book that a 275 Rigby rifle was gifted to him by Sir JP Hewett then lieutenant governor of the United Provinces, he wrote a gun was gifted to the tahsildar of Champawat and a knife was gifted to the man accompanying him on the hunt. Corbett bought a 275 Rifle (7X57) made by Westley Richards built-in Mauser 98 action from Manton Calcutta.\nThe terrain in which Corbett hunted these tigers was mountainous and steep, with typical elevations being as high as 6,000 to 8,000 feet, and not far from the border between northern India and Nepal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1307591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1307591", "title": "Tocolytic", "text": "Tocolytic\n\nTocolytics (also called anti-contraction medications or labor suppressants) are medications used to suppress premature labor (from Greek τόκος \"tókos\", \"childbirth\", and λύσις \"lúsis\", \"loosening\"). Tocolytic therapy is provided when delivery would result in premature birth, postponing delivery long enough for the administration of glucocorticoids, which accelerate fetal lung maturity but may take one to two days before its effects are seen.\n\nThe suppression of contractions is often only partial and tocolytics can only be relied on to delay birth for several days. Depending on the tocolytic used the mother or fetus may require monitoring (e.g., blood pressure monitoring when nifedipine is used as it reduces blood pressure; cardiotocography to assess fetal well-being). In any case, the risk of preterm labor alone justifies hospitalization.\n\nThere is no clear first-line tocolytic agent.\n\nVarious types of agents are used, with varying success rates and side effects. Some medications are not specifically approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in stopping uterine contractions in preterm labor, instead being used off-label.\n\nCalcium-channel blockers (such as nifedipine) and oxytocin antagonists (such as atosiban) may delay delivery by 2 to 7 days, depending on how quickly the medication is administered. Otherwise, tocolysis is rarely successful beyond 24 to 48 hours because current medications do not alter the fundamentals of labor activation. However, postponing premature delivery by 48 hours appears sufficient to allow pregnant women to be transferred to a center specialized for management of preterm deliveries, and thus give administered corticosteroids the possibility to reduce neonatal organ immaturity.\n\nThe efficacy of β-adrenergic agonists, atosiban, and indomethacin is a decreased odds ratio (OR) of delivery within 24 hours of 0.54 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.32-0.91) and 0.47 within 48 hours (OR 0.47, 95% CI: 0.30-0.75).\n\nAntibiotics may also delay the onset of labor in women with premature rupture of membranes, but this is not usually characterized as tocolysis.\n\nIn addition to drug-specific contraindications, several general factors may contraindicate delaying childbirth with the use of tocolytic medications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2333854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2333854", "title": "Tumbleweed", "text": "Tumbleweed\n\nA tumbleweed is a structural part of the above-ground anatomy of a number of species of plants, a diaspore that, once it is mature and dry, detaches from its root or stem, and tumbles away in the wind. In most such species, the tumbleweed is in effect the entire plant apart from the root system, but in other plants, a hollow fruit or an inflorescence might serve the function. Tumbleweed species occur most commonly in steppe and arid ecosystems, where frequent wind and the open environment permit rolling without prohibitive obstruction.\n\nApart from its primary vascular system and roots, the tissues of the tumbleweed structure are dead; their death is functional because it is necessary for the structure to degrade gradually and fall apart so that its seeds or spores can escape during the tumbling, or germinate after the tumbleweed has come to rest in a wet location. In the latter case, many species of tumbleweed open mechanically, releasing their seeds as they swell when they absorb water.\n\nThe tumbleweed diaspore disperses seeds, but the tumbleweed strategy is not limited to the seed plants; some species of spore-bearing cryptogams such as \"Selaginella\" form tumbleweeds, and some fungi that resemble puffballs dry out, break free of their attachments and are similarly tumbled by the wind, dispersing spores as they go.\n\nThe tumbleweed dispersal strategies are unusual among plants; most species disperse their seeds by other mechanisms. Many tumbleweeds are ruderal species, opportunistic agricultural weeds. Tumbleweeds have been recorded in the following plant groups:\nIn the family Amaranthaceae \"s.l.\"(i.e. broadly defined to include Chenopodiaceae), several annual species of the genus \"Kali\" are tumbleweeds. They are thought to be native to Eurasia, but when their seeds entered North America in shipments of agricultural seeds, they became naturalized in large areas. In the cinema genre of Westerns, they have long been symbols of frontier areas. \"Salsola tragus\" (currently not valid synonym \"Kali tragus\") is the so-called \"Russian thistle\". It is an annual plant that breaks off at the stem base when it dies, and forms a tumbleweed, dispersing its seeds as the wind rolls it along. It is said to have arrived in the United States in shipments of flax seeds to South Dakota, perhaps about 1870. It now is a noxious weed throughout North America, dominating disturbed habitats such as roadsides, cultivated fields, eroded slopes, and arid regions with sparse vegetation. Though it is a troublesome weed, \"Salsola tragus\" also provides useful livestock forage on arid rangelands.\n\nOther members of the Amaranthaceae (s.l.) that form tumbleweeds include \"Kochia\" species, \"Cycloloma atriplicifolium\", and \"Corispermum hyssopifolium\", which are called plains tumbleweed. \"Atriplex rosea\" is called the tumbling oracle or tumbling orach.\n\nAmong the Amaranthaceae (s.s.) that form tumbleweeds, there are several species of \"Amaranthus\", such as \"Amaranthus albus\", native to Central America but invasive in Europe, Asia, and Australia; and \"Amaranthus graecizans\", native to Africa, but naturalized in North America. \"Amaranthus retroflexus\", which is indigenous to tropical North and South America, has become nearly cosmopolitan largely as a weed, but like many other species of \"Amaranthus\", it also is widely valued as animal forage and as human food, though it should be utilised with caution to avoid toxicity.\n\nSeveral Southern African genera in the family Amaryllidaceae produce highly optimised tumbleweeds; their inflorescences are globular umbels with long, spoke-like pedicels, either effectively at ground level, or breaking off once the stems are dry. When the seeds are about ripe, the fruit remain attached to the peduncles, but the stem of the umbel detaches, permitting the globes to roll about in the wind. The light, open, globular structures form very effective tumbleweed diaspores, dropping their seeds usually within a few days as the follicles fail under the wear of rolling. The seeds are fleshy, short-lived, and germinate rapidly where they land. Being poisonous and distasteful, they are not attractive to candidate transport animals, so the rolling diaspore is a very effective dispersal strategy for such plants. Genera with this means of seed dispersal include \"Ammocharis\", \"Boophone\", \"Crossyne\" and \"Brunsvigia\".\n\nSome species of the Apiaceae form tumbleweeds from their flower umbels, much as some Amaryllidaceae do.\n\nIn the Asteraceae, the knapweed \"Centaurea diffusa\" forms tumbleweeds. It is native to Eurasia and is naturalized in much of North America. Also in the Asteraceae, \"Lessingia glandulifera\", native to America, sometimes forms tumbleweeds; it grows on sandy soils in desert areas, chaparral, and open pine forests of the western United States.\n\nIn the Brassicaceae, \"Sisymbrium altissimum\", \"Crambe maritima\", \"Lepidium\", and a resurrection plant, \"Anastatica\" form tumbleweeds.\n\nIn the Caryophyllaceae, the garden plant \"baby's-breath\" (\"Gypsophila paniculata\"), produces a dry inflorescence that forms tumbleweeds. In parts of central and western North America, it has become a common weed in many locations including hayfields and pastures.\n\nIn the legume family (Fabaceae), \"Baptisia tinctoria\" and some species of \"Psoralea\" produce tumbleweeds. In \"Psoralea\" the tumbleweed detaches from the plant by abscission of the stem.\n\nIn the Plantaginaceae, \"Plantago cretica\" forms tumbleweeds.\n\nInflorescences that act as tumbling diaspores occur in some grasses, including \"Schedonnardus paniculatus\" and some species of \"Eragrostis\" and \"Aristida\". In these plants, the inflorescences break off and tumble in the wind instead of the whole plant, much as happens in some of the Apiaceae and Amaryllidaceae. The species of \"Spinifex\" from Southeast Asia are prominent examples of this dispersal adaptation. These grasses are often called tumble-grasses, including such species as \"Panicum capillare\" and \"Eragrostis pectinacea\" in the United States.\n\nIn the Solanaceae, \"Solanum rostratum \". forms tumbleweeds.\n\nWind dispersed fruits that tumble or roll on the ground, sometimes known as \"tumble fruits\", are rare. Some are technically achenes. Highly inflated indehiscent fruits that may facilitate tumbling include \"Alyssopsis\", \"Coluteocarpus\", \"Physoptychis\", \"Sutherlandia\" and \"Physaria\".\n\nVery similar in habit to \"Anastatica\", but practically unrelated, are the spore-bearing \"Selaginella lepidophylla\" (a lycopod) and earthstar mushroom family (Geastraceae). All of these curl into a ball when dry and uncurl when moistened.\n\n\"Bovista\", a genus of puffball, uses essentially the same dispersal strategy.\n\nSome ruderal species that disperse as tumbleweeds are serious weeds that significantly promote wind erosion in open regions. Their effects are particularly harmful to dry-land agricultural operations where the outside application of additional moisture is not practicable. One study showed that a single Russian thistle can remove up to 167 liters (44 gallons) of water from the soil in competition with a wheat crop in one year. The amount of water removed from fallow land more subject to erosion would be even more damaging.\n\nIt sometimes happens that species of large tumbleweed, especially if thorny, can form aggregations that are physically hazardous and can block roads and cover buildings and vehicles. This can most obviously happen where fences and similar obstacles cause the accumulation, but the weeds can also entangle each other spontaneously until they form piles that can no longer roll. Such piles can be a serious threat to trapped vehicles or buildings and their occupants, most particularly because they are dry and flammable. Examples of enveloped buildings and vehicles have been documented mainly in the Western regions of the US. In residential areas, an example was the town of Mobridge, South Dakota, where tens of tonnes of large tumbleweeds (\"Russian thistles\") that had matured in the dry bed of nearby Lake Oahe buried many houses so deeply that mechanical equipment was necessary to remove it, release occupants, and counter the fire hazard.\n\nThere was a significant outbreak of \"Panicum effusum\" in the Australian town of Wangaratta in February 2016 that attracted international attention. The seed heads of the weed, known locally as \"hairy panic\", had piled several meters deep in some places, forcing residents to spend several hours removing it to regain access to their doors and homes. The local council subsequently indicated it was considering attaching large vacuums to street-sweepers in an attempt to control the outbreak.\n\nOn April 18, 2018, strong winds and neglected maintenance of neighboring private land brought in a very large number of tumbleweeds into Victorville, California and about 100 to 150 homes required help from public services after their entryways were at least partly blocked off. The local fire department also participated in the cleanup as the massive influx of tumbleweeds presented both a safety and fire hazard.\n\nTumbleweeds have also been observed to cause issues with wastewater treatment plants (WWTP)s. In some cases of inadequate fencing, they can get entangled in electromechanical equipment within plants such as clarifiers and mechanical aerators leading to increased energy use and labor cost associated with operating and cleaning the units.\n\nThe tumbleweed's association with the Western film genre has led to a highly symbolic meaning in visual media. It has come to represent locations that are desolate, dry, and often humorless, with few or no occupants. A common use is when characters encounter a long abandoned or dismal-looking place: a tumbleweed will be seen rolling past, often accompanied by the sound of a dry, hollow wind. This is sometimes used for comic effect in locations where tumbleweeds are not expected, but the emptiness is obvious. Tumbleweed blowing between two theatrical characters can also be used to emphasize tension in a western style duel or standoff. \n\nAs with the sound of crickets, tumbleweeds can also be shown to emphasize an awkward silence after a bad joke or a character otherwise making an absurd declaration, with the aforementioned sound of wind and the plant rolling past in the background.\n\n"}
{"id": "22586063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22586063", "title": "Walter Brown (footballer, born 1867)", "text": "Walter Brown (footballer, born 1867)\n\nWalter Ephraim Brown (1867 – after 1890) was an English footballer who played in the Football Alliance for Small Heath. Brown was born in the Handsworth district of Birmingham and played football for several local clubs before spending a couple of months with Small Heath. He played in three of the first four games of the 1891–92 Football Alliance season, once on the left wing and twice at inside left, scoring in each of the latter two, before returning to local football with Crosswell's Brewery.\n"}
{"id": "6592683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6592683", "title": "William Abbott (manager)", "text": "William Abbott (manager)\n\nWilliam Abbott was a theatrical manager, based in England, and South Carolina, United States.\n\nHe worked with the Haymarket Theatre in London, later moving to Charleston, South Carolina, where he created the New Charleston Theatre and operated it from 1837 through 1841. This theatre brought theatrical stars like Ellen Tree, Booth, Cooper, and Vandenhoff to Charleston. He also maintained a repertory company there.\n\n"}
{"id": "694711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=694711", "title": "William Lowndes (congressman)", "text": "William Lowndes (congressman)\n\nWilliam Jones Lowndes (February 11, 1782 – October 27, 1822) was an American lawyer, planter, and statesman from South Carolina. He represented the state in the U.S. Congress from 1811 to May 8, 1822, when he resigned.\n\nHe was the son of Rawlins Lowndes, an American Revolutionary War leader from South Carolina, and was married to Elizabeth Pinckney, daughter of Federalist leader Thomas Pinckney.\n\nLowndes was born at the \"Horseshoe\" plantation near Jacksonboro, South Carolina on February 11, 1782. He received a classical education in South Carolina and England before studying law. He was admitted to the bar in 1804 and commenced practice in Charleston. In addition, Lowndes owned and operated several rice plantations on South Carolina's Atlantic coast.\n\nWilliam J. Lowndes first served in the South Carolina House of Representatives from 1804 to 1808.\n\nElected to the Twelfth United States Congress as a Representative from the Charleston area, Lowndes was a central member of the 'War Hawk' faction along with Speaker of the House Henry Clay, future President of the Second Bank of the United States Langdon Cheves, Tennessee representative Felix Grundy, and future Vice President and South Carolina Senator John C. Calhoun. The War Hawks agitated throughout the Congressional session for the declaration of the War of 1812, which was achieved on June 19. Lowndes became close friends with Calhoun during this time, with whom he also shared a boardinghouse; Lowndes's granddaughter relates that, twenty years after Lowndes's death, Calhoun told his widow \"that there had never been a shadow between them.\" \n\nAfter the war, Lowndes served as Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, in which capacity he authored and shepherded through Congress the Tariff of 1816 in consultation with Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Dallas. Due to his reputation for financial expertise, Lowndes was also a chief lieutenant of Calhoun in the passage of the Second Bank of the United States during the Fourteenth Congress. Extremely well-respected by his colleagues and the press, Lowndes was offered several Cabinet positions by both James Madison and his successor James Monroe, including Secretary of Treasury and Secretary of War. When Lowndes refused the latter, it was offered to Calhoun, who accepted the position and held it until his inauguration as Vice President in 1825. Staying in the House, Lowndes was a major player in the negotiations surrounding what would become the Missouri Compromise; Southern support for the Compromise was at least partially due to Lowndes's advocacy. \n\nIn 1821, Lowndes was nominated for President of the United States for the 1824 election by the South Carolina legislature over the more ambitious Calhoun, dealing a serious blow to Calhoun's own incipient candidacy. Perennially ill after an accident in his youth, Lowndes' health took a serious downturn in just a year later, necessitating his resignation from Congress. At the urging of his wife, the Lowndes family embarked for a recuperative visit to England, but William died en route on October 27, 1822 at the age of 40. He was buried at sea.\n\nFollowing his resignation in 1822, Lowndes was replaced in the House by James Hamilton, Jr., who, as Governor of the state during the Nullification Crisis, was one of the leaders of the Nullification movement along with John C. Calhoun. The juxtaposition of these two figures highlights Lowndes's position, due in large part to his premature death, as one of the last Southern nationalists and as a marker of, in the words of Lowndes's most recent biographer, \"the transition of Southern politics.\" \n\nIn March–April 1824, electors from South Carolina honored William Lowndes posthumously with a single vote at the Democratic-Republican Party Caucus, as the party's candidate for the Office of U.S. Vice President for the upcoming election. \n\nWilliam Lowndes is credited with developing the Lowndes Apportionment Method, a method of apportionment for Congressional seats that would give more power to smaller states. It was not adopted by Congress.\n\nLowndesville, South Carolina; and Lowndes counties in Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi are all named in his honor.\n\n"}
