{"id": "45498839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45498839", "title": "26th National Geographic Bee", "text": "26th National Geographic Bee\n\nThe 26th National Geographic Bee was held in Washington, D.C. on May 21, 2014, sponsored by the National Geographic Society.\n\nEighth-grader Akhil Rekulapelli, from Loudoun County, Virginia won the competition, beating out 52 other competitors representing the 50 U.S. states, Pacific territories, and Department of Defense dependent schools.\n\nIn 2014, a record number of 9 perfect scores in the national preliminary competition was recorded. As a result, a sudden-death tiebreaker took place between 8 state representatives including contestants from Alabama, Utah, Texas, Maryland, Virginia, Illinois and Washington.\n\nAkhil Rekulapelli, the 2014 National Geographic Bee Champion, received a $50,000 scholarship, a lifetime membership to the National Geographic Society, and a trip for 2 to the Galapagos Islands. Ameya Mujumdar, the second-place finisher received $25,000. Tuvya Bergeson-Michelson, the third-place finisher received $10,000, and Pranit Nanda the fourth-place finisher received $1,000. Other top ten finishers received $500.\n"}
{"id": "216877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216877", "title": "A1 road (Great Britain)", "text": "A1 road (Great Britain)\n\nThe A1 is the longest numbered road in the UK, at . It connects London, the capital of England, with Edinburgh, the capital of Scotland. It passes through or near North London, Hatfield, Welwyn Garden City, Stevenage, Baldock, Letchworth Garden City, Huntingdon, Peterborough, Stamford, Grantham, Newark-on-Trent, Retford, Doncaster, York, Ripon, Darlington, Durham, Sunderland, Gateshead, Newcastle upon Tyne, Alnwick and Berwick-upon-Tweed.\n\nIt was designated by the Ministry of Transport in 1921, and for much of its route it followed various branches of the historic Great North Road, the main deviation being between Boroughbridge and Darlington. The course of the A1 has changed where towns or villages have been bypassed, and where new alignments have taken a slightly different route. Several sections of the route have been upgraded to motorway standard and designated A1(M). Between the M25 (near London) and the A696 (near Newcastle upon Tyne) the road has been designated as part of the unsigned Euroroute E15 from Inverness to Algeciras.\n\nThe A1 is the latest in a series of routes north from London to York and beyond. It was designated in 1921 by the Ministry of Transport under the Great Britain road numbering scheme. The earliest documented northern routes are the roads created by the Romans during the period from AD 43 to AD 410, which consisted of several \"itinera\" (plural of \"iter\") recorded in the Antonine Itinerary. A combination of these were used by the Anglo-Saxons as the route from London to York, and together became known as Ermine Street. Ermine Street later became known as the Old North Road. Part of this route in London is followed by the current A10. By the 12th century, because of flooding and damage by traffic, an alternative route out of London was found through Muswell Hill, and became part of the Great North Road. A turnpike road, New North Road and Canonbury Road (A1200 road), was constructed in 1812 linking the start of the Old North Road around Shoreditch with the Great North Road at Highbury Corner. While the route of the A1 outside London mainly follows the Great North Road route used by mail coaches between London and Edinburgh, within London the coaching route is only followed through Islington.\n\nBypasses were built around Barnet and Hatfield in 1927, but it was not until c.1954 that they were renumbered A1. In the 1930s bypasses were added around Chester-le-Street and Durham and the Ferryhill Cut was dug. In 1960 Stamford, Biggleswade and Doncaster were bypassed, as were Retford in 1961 and St Neots in 1971. Baldock was bypassed in July 1967. During the early 1970s plans to widen the A1 along Archway Road in London were abandoned after considerable opposition and four public inquiries during which road protesters disrupted proceedings. The scheme was finally dropped in 1990. The Hatfield cut-and-cover was opened in 1986.\n\nA proposal to upgrade the whole of the A1 to motorway status was investigated by the Government in 1989 but was dropped in 1995, along with many other schemes, in response to road protests against other road schemes (including the Newbury Bypass and the M3 extension through Twyford Down).\n\nThe inns on the road, many of which still survive, were staging posts on the coach routes, providing accommodation, stabling for the horses and replacement mounts. Few of the surviving coaching inns can be seen while driving on the A1, because the modern route now bypasses the towns with the inns.\n\nThe A1 runs from New Change in the City of London at St. Paul's Cathedral to the centre of Edinburgh. The road skirts the remains of Sherwood Forest, and passes Catterick Garrison. It shares its London terminus with the A40, in the City area of Central London. It runs out of London via St. Martin's Le Grand and Aldersgate Street, through Islington (where Goswell Road and Upper Street form part of its route), up Holloway Road, through Highgate, Barnet, Potters Bar, Hatfield, Welwyn, Stevenage, Baldock, Biggleswade, Sandy and St Neots.\n\nContinuing north, the A1 runs on modern bypasses around Stamford, Grantham, Newark-on-Trent, Retford, Bawtry, Doncaster, Knottingley, Garforth, Wetherby, Knaresborough, Boroughbridge, Scotch Corner, Darlington, Newton Aycliffe, Durham and Chester-le-Street, past the Angel of the North sculpture and the Metrocentre in Gateshead, through the western suburbs of Newcastle upon Tyne, Morpeth, Alnwick, Berwick-upon-Tweed, into Scotland at Marshall Meadows, past Haddington and Musselburgh before arriving in Edinburgh at the East End of Princes Street near Waverley Station, at the junction of the A7, A8 and A900 roads.\n\nScotch Corner, in North Yorkshire, marks the point where before the M6 was built the traffic for Glasgow and the west of Scotland diverged from that for Edinburgh. As well as a hotel there have been a variety of sites for the transport café, now subsumed as a motorway services.\n\nA section of the road in North Yorkshire, from Walshford to Dishforth, was upgraded to motorway standard in 1995. Neolithic remains and a Roman fort were discovered.\n\nA section of the road from Alconbury to Peterborough was upgraded to motorway standard at a cost of £128 million (£ as of 2018), which opened in 1998 requiring moving the memorial to Napoleonic prisoners buried at Norman Cross.\n\nA number of sections between Newcastle and Edinburgh were dualled between 1999 and 2004, including a section from Spott Wood to Oswald Dean in 1999, sections from Bowerhouse to Spott Road and from Howburn to Houndwood in 2002–2003 and the \"A1 Expressway\", from Haddington and Dunbar in 2004. The total cost of these works was some £50 million.\n\nPlans to dual the single carriageway section of road north of Newcastle upon Tyne were shelved in 2006 as they were not considered a regional priority by central government. The intention was to dual the road between Morpeth and Felton and between Adderstone and Belford.\n\nIn 1999 a section of A1(M) between Bramham and Hook Moor opened to traffic along with the extension of the M1 from Leeds. Under a DBFO contract, sections from Wetherby to Walshford and Darrington to Hook Moor were opened in 2005 and 2006, taking the section to a junction.\n\nBetween August 2006 and September 2009 six roundabouts on the A1 and the A1(M) to Alconbury were replaced with grade-separated junctions. These provide a fully grade-separated route between the Buckden roundabout (just north of St Neots and approximately north of the Black Cat Roundabout) and just north of Morpeth. This project cost £96 million.\n\nUpgrading the of road to dual three-lane motorway standard between the Bramham/A64 junction to north of Wetherby to meet the section of motorway at a cost of £70 million began in 2006, including a road alongside for non-motorway traffic. The scheme's public inquiry began on 18 October 2006 and the project was designed by James Poyner. Work began in May 2007, the motorway section opened in July 2009 and remaining work on side roads was still ongoing in late August and was expected to be completed by the end of 2009.\n\nUpgrading of the existing dual carriageway to dual three-lane motorway standard, with a local road alongside for non-motorway traffic, between Dishforth (A1(M)/A168 junction) and Leeming Bar, began in March 2009 and opened to traffic on or about the scheduled date of 31 March 2012.\n\nIt had originally been proposed that the road would be upgraded to motorway from Dishforth to Barton (between Scotch Corner and Darlington), which was the start of current northernmost section of A1(M). In 2010 the section between Leeming and Barton was cancelled as part of government spending cuts but it was reinstated in December 2012. Work began on 3 April 2014 and was expected to be completed by Spring 2017, but only reached completion in March 2018 due in part to significant Roman-era archaeological finds along the route of the motorway. Completion has provided a continuous motorway-standard road between Darrington (south of M62 junction) and Washington, and given the North East and North Yorkshire full motorway access to London (via the M1 at Darrington and Hook Moor). \n\nCouncils in the north east have called for the section from Hook Moor in Yorkshire (where the M1 link road joins the A1(M)) to Washington to be renumbered as the M1. They maintain that this would raise the profile of the north-east and be good for business.\n\nIn his Autumn Statement on 5 December 2012, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced that the Government would upgrade a section of road from two to three lanes in each direction within the highway boundary at Lobley Hill (between Coal House and the Metro Centre), Gateshead at a cost of £64 m and create parallel link roads between the Lobley Hill and Gateshead Quay junctions. The same Road investment strategy announcement said that the remaining section of road between Birtley and Coal House will also be widened to three lanes each way, alongside the replacement of the Allerdene Bridge. A modified scheme commenced in August 2014 and was open to traffic in June 2016. The road is now three lanes each way with lane 3 narrower than lanes 1 and 2 so that all existing bridges remained as originally built. \n\nThe A1 around Durham, Gateshead and Newcastle has seen a number of incarnations, following routes through, to the east and to the west of both Gateshead and Newcastle. See A1 (Newcastle upon Tyne) for more information.\n\nThere are currently no ongoing developments, though a number of proposed developments listed following are scheduled to begin in the near future.\n\nIn the \"Road investment strategy\" announced to Parliament by the Department for Transport and Secretary of State for Transport on 1 December 2014, planning will begin to upgrade the road in South Yorkshire to raise the last non-motorway section from Red House to Darrington to motorway standard. Once completed, it will provide a continuous motorway-standard road between Blyth, Nottinghamshire and Washington, Tyne and Wear and will provide the North East and Yorkshire with full motorway access to London via the M1, M62 and M18. It will also improve safety along this route, as well as creating a new corridor to the North East, and reducing congestion on the M1 around Sheffield and Leeds.\n\nThe same announcement said that the road from Scotswood to North Brunton would be widened to three lanes each way, with four lanes each way between some junctions.\n\nThe announcement then said that the road from Morpeth to Ellingham would be upgraded to dual carriageway. The selection of the preferred route was scheduled for the year 2017, with construction due to begin in 2019. In response to questions regarding transport in the north, Highways England stated that a new dual carriageway section between Morpeth and Fenton and also that of Alnwick to Ellingham would start in 2012 with full opening in 2023.\n\nMeasures were also announced to enhance the performance and safety of the A1 north of Ellingham to include three sections of climbing lanes, five junctions with improved right turn refuges, and better crossing facilities for pedestrians and cyclists. Start of construction is scheduled for 2018.\n\nThe planned A14 Ellington to Fen Ditton scheme would require a new junction at Brampton, north of which the A1 will be widened to a three-lane dual carriageway from Brampton to the Brampton Hut interchange. The new two-lane dual carriageway section of the A14 would run parallel with the A1 on this section.\n\nThe same announcement in December 2014 said that the A1/A421 Black Cat Roundabout would be replaced with a grade-separated junction, just a few years after this roundabout was expensively upgraded.\n\nIt was then also announced that planning would begin to upgrade the Newark northern bypass to dual carriageway, and the A46 junction with the A1 will be replaced to support nearby housing growth and improve links from the A1 to Newark and Lincoln.\n\nIt was also announced that the Doncaster By-pass, which is the oldest stretch of two-lane motorway still in service, would be upgraded to dual three lanes. This will relieve local congestion and provide the capacity needed to make the A1 an alternative (and better) strategic route to the north east.\n\nIn 2003 a proposal for a bypass of Sandy and Beeston, Bedfordshire, was put forward as a green-lighted scheme as part of a government multi-modal study, with a cost of £67 million. However, the Highways Agency was unwilling to confirm the information as the study was preliminary and intended for future publication. In 2008 the proposal was submitted for consideration in the pre-2013/14 Regional Funding Advice 2 Programme of the East of England Development Agency.\n\nIt was also announced in 2014 that new technology would be implemented to bring the road to motorway standards, including detection loops, CCTV cameras and variable message signs to provide better information for drivers and active traffic management across Tyne and Wear, while Junction 6 (Welwyn North) to Junction 8 (Hitchin) would be upgraded to smart motorway, including widening of a two-lane section to dual three lanes and hard shoulder running.\n\nA strategic study will examine how to improve the safety and performance of the A1 between Peterborough and the M25, including whether to upgrade the old dual carriageway section to motorway standard.\n\nThe Highways Agency has been investigating an upgrade of the A1 Newcastle/Gateshead Western Bypass to dual three-lane motorway standard to alleviate heavy congestion which in recent years has become a recurrent problem.\n\nImprovements to junctions near the village of Elkesley, Nottinghamshire are planned: the village's only access to the rest of the road network is via the A1.\n\nConsideration is being given to widening the Brampton Hut interchange to Alconbury sections to a three-lane dual carriageway.\n\nSome sections of the A1 have been upgraded to motorway standard. These are known as the A1(M) and are part of European route E15. These include:\n\n\nThe M25 to Stotfold section is , and was constructed between 1962 and 1986. The main destinations are Hatfield, Welwyn Garden City, Stevenage, and Letchworth. It opened in five stages: junctions 1 to 2 in 1979; 2 to 4 in 1986; 4 to 6 in 1973; 6 to 8 in 1962; and 8 to 10 in 1967.\n\n\nThe Alconbury to Peterborough section is , and opened in 1998.\n\n\nThe Doncaster By-pass opened in 1961 and is one of the oldest sections of motorway in Britain. It is long, and runs from Blyth to Carcroft.\n\n\nThe Darrington to Gateshead section was constructed between 1965 and 2018. It is , and opened in sections:\n\nThe A1 is celebrated in song. It is mentioned by Jethro Tull on the title track of the album \"\" \"Up on the A1 by Scotch Corner\". \"Scotch Corner,\" by the Welsh band Man, on the album \"Rhinos, Winos and Lunatics\" is about an encounter there. Near the southern end, signs saying \"Hatfield and the North\" inspired the eponymous 1970s rock band Hatfield and the North. The A1 is mentioned in The Long Blondes' song, \"Separated By Motorways\", along with the A14. The A1(M) is mentioned in the song \"Gabadon\" by Sheffield band, Haze. Andrew Blackman's 2009 novel \"On the Holloway Road\", inspired by Jack Kerouac's On the Road, centres on a road trip along the A1.\n\n"}
{"id": "1216740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1216740", "title": "Adansi", "text": "Adansi\n\nAdansi is the name of a distinct Ashanti language Twi-speaking tribe on the Ashantiland Peninsula, to the south of the Ashanti people. The Adansi tribe is the smaller of the two tribes inhabiting the Ashanti Region.\n\nThe capital of the Adansi tribe is at Fomena. An Adansihene (king of Adansi) is still designated. The Adansi tribe has seven paramountcies namely the capital, Fomena, New Edubiase, Ayaase, Akrokyere (Akrokerri), Akrofuom, Bodwesango and Dompoase. The Adansi tribe is devolved into three local government divisions - Adansi South which has a population of 129,325 and an area of 1,380 square kilometres has the capital at New Edubiase; Adansi North has a population of 235,680, and an area 828 square kilometres and has its capital at Fomena; and Obuasi Municipal which has a population of 175,043 and is the second largest urban settlement in the Ashanti City-State and the eight biggest urban settlement on the Ashantiland Peninsula. Adansi South was once the largest cocoa growing area in the whole of the Ashanti City-State and on the Ashantiland Peninsula.\n\nThe Adansi tribe stretches from the Pra River to the south to the Asante paramountcy of Bekwai to the north. It is also bound to the south-west by the Ashanti language Twi-speaking Denkyera tribe. According to imminent historian F.K.Buah, the Adansiland is considered the origin of some Akan people. In the 17th century the Adansi were a powerful people who were known for their ability to build beautiful structures. The office of the Akan office of Okyeame (linguist) is said to have originated in Adansi.\n\nObuasi is a town in southern Ashanti City-State and is the capital of Obuasi Municipal, a district, lying south of Kumasi in the Ashanti City-State on the Ashantiland Peninsula. Obuasi is the second largest urban settlement in the Ashanti City-State and the eight most populous settlement on the Ashantiland Peninsula, in terms of population, with a population of 175,043 people. It is the largest settlement of the Adansi people, a Ashanti language Twi-speaking Akan tribe that has lived peacefully with the powerful Ashanti people to the north for many centuries.\n\nSituated on the railway line from Kumasi to Sekondi, it is known for its Obuasi Gold Mine, now one of the nine largest on Earth, gold having been mined on the site since at least the seventeenth century.\n"}
{"id": "15857131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15857131", "title": "Albysjön (Botkyrka)", "text": "Albysjön (Botkyrka)\n\nAlbysjön (Swedish for \"Lake Alby\") is a lake forming part of Lake Mälaren. It separates Botkyrka Municipality and Huddinge Municipality in south-western Stockholm, Sweden.\n\nThe lake, which is filling a geological fault, has steep cliffs along the western shore. To the north it connects to Vårbyfjärden through the narrow strait Fittja näset. It is an important recreational area for inhabitants in the neighbouring suburbs Alby, Vårby gård, and Myrstuguberget, as well as for a large number of other visitors attracted by the Flottsbro Open-air Area and its bath in the southern end of the lake.\n\nNext to the bath in the southern end of the lake is the tallest ski slope in Stockholm together with Gömsta Äng Nature Reserve. Angling is free on the lake and very popular in summers, while jigging attracts many people in winters when ice cover allows. The Flottsbro Open-air Area offers walking tracks, restaurants, camping, and many other open-air facilities available throughout the year. In summers kayaks, canoes, Canadian canoes are available for rent.\n\nAlbysjön is rich in nutrients derived mostly from the surrounding catchment area. The lake receives stormwater discharge from a 6 km large area in Botkyrka and a 4 km area in Huddinge.\n\nThe aquatic flora composed of reed, common club-rush, flowering rush, yellow iris, greater water-parsnip, brooklime, bulbous rush, toad rush, eight-stamened waterwort, needle spike-rush, spring quillwort, amphibious bistort, pale persicaria, rigid hornwort, horned pondweed, perfoliate pondweed, blunt-leaved pondweed, grass-wrack pondweed, fennel pondweed, various-leaved pondweed, lesser pondweed, fan-leaved water-goosefoot, whorled water-milfoil, alternate water-milfoil, spiked water-milfoil, Canadian waterweed, Nuttall's waterweed, and common duckweed. There are stoneworts such as \"Chara delicatula\" and \"Nitella flexilis\".\n\nOn the shores are plants like alders, hybrid crack willows, osiers, elms, ashes, grey willow, birch, aspens, great yellow-cress, gypsywort, skullcap, whorled mint (a hybrid species between corn mint and water mint), trifid bur-marigold, slender tufted-sedge, reed sweet-grass, annual meadow-grass, silverweed and purple-loosestrife.\n\nNaturally occurring fishes are melt, northern pike, roach, rudd, tench, bleak, silver bream, carp bream, eel, burbot, perch, zander, and ruffe. The spined loach was discovered in 2002 and occasionally salmon and brown trout find their way into the lake, the later introduced in a local brook in 1992-93.\n\nThe invasive bivalve zebra mussel was first documented in Lake Mälaren in the 1920s and was confirmed in Albysjön in 2002. Other molluscs include painter's mussel, duck mussel, river nerite, and river snail. Crayfishes are not documented in the lake but as the signal crayfish is present throughout Lake Mälaren it is believed to be present in Albysjön as well.\n\nCommons birds include the Canada goose, mute swan, mallard, great crested grebe, coot, goldeneye, gull, herring gull, black-headed gull, and reed bunting. In the summer common visitors include osprey, grey heron and great cormorant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "534887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=534887", "title": "Anglo-America", "text": "Anglo-America\n\nAnglo-America most often refers to a region in the Americas in which English is a main language and British culture and the British Empire have had significant historical, ethnic, linguistic and cultural impact. Anglo-America is distinct from Latin America, a region of the Americas where Romance languages (Spanish, Portuguese and French) are prevalent.\n\nThe term \"Anglo-America\" frequently refers specifically to the United States and Canada, by far the two most populous English-speaking countries in North America. Other areas composing the Anglophone Caribbean include territories of the former British West Indies, Belize, Bermuda, and Guyana.\n\nTwo notable territories with substantial non-Anglophone majorities are nonetheless often included in Anglo-America for linguistical reasons. In Canada, the francophone province of Quebec, Acadia in New Brunswick and a part of Cochrane District are sometimes considered part of Anglo-America for cultural, economic, geographical, historical, and political reasons. Similarly, Spanish-speaking Puerto Rico is considered part of Anglo-America because of its status as an unincorporated territory of the United States. Conversely, Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten, and Saba are not typically included in Anglo-America, despite their English-speaking majorities, because they are constituent countries or \"public bodies\" that form part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.\n\nPeople from other parts of the world have immigrated to Anglo-America to have a better quality of life, find better employment, and escape famine, poverty, violence and conflict. People from many different ethnic origins in Latin America and more remote places all over the world including the less English-dominant parts of Oceania, continental Europe, Asia and Africa all live in Anglo-America contemporarily.\n\n\nAnglosphere:\nLanguages:\n\nLists:\n"}
{"id": "30992807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30992807", "title": "Ann Varley", "text": "Ann Varley\n\nAnn Varley is a Professor of Human Geography at University College London. Her research focus has been on housing and the home, looking at urban land and housing; family law and the home; law and urban governance; property formalization; gender, families and households. Latin America, in particular Mexico, has been where most of her work has been done, work for which she was awarded the Royal Geographical Society's \"Busk Medal\" in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8855812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8855812", "title": "Cadí-Moixeró Natural Park", "text": "Cadí-Moixeró Natural Park\n\nThe Cadí-Moixeró Natural Park () is a natural park to the north of Catalonia, Spain, near the border with Andorra. The park was established in 1983 and encompasses of mountainous terrain in the comarques of Alt Urgell, Berguedà and Cerdanya. It stretches for more than 30 kilometers over the mountain ranges of Serra del Cadí and Serra de Moixeró, with Vulturó standing at as its highest point.\n"}
{"id": "15822342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15822342", "title": "Continental fragment", "text": "Continental fragment\n\nContinental crustal fragments, partially synonymous with microcontinents, are fragments of continents that have been broken off from main continental masses forming distinct islands, often several hundred kilometers from their place of origin. All continents are fragments; , due to Australia being the smallest continent. They are not known to contain a craton or fragment of a craton. Continental fragments include some seamounts and underwater plateaus.\n\nSome microcontinents are fragments of Gondwana or other ancient cratonic continents: these include Madagascar; the northern Mascarene Plateau, which includes the Seychelles; the island of Timor, etc. Other islands, such as several in the Caribbean Sea, are composed largely of granitic rock as well, but all continents contain both granitic and basaltic crust, and there is no clear dividing line between islands and microcontinents under such a definition. The Kerguelen Plateau is a large igneous province formed by a volcanic hot spot; however, it was associated with the breakup of Gondwana and was for a time above water, so it is considered a microcontinent, though not a continental fragment. Other hotspot islands such as Iceland and Hawaii are considered neither microcontinents nor continental fragments. Not all islands can be considered microcontinents: the British Isles, Sri Lanka, Borneo, and Newfoundland, for example, are each within the continental shelf of an adjacent continent, separated from the mainland by inland seas flooding its margins.\n\nSeveral islands in the eastern Indonesian archipelago are considered continental fragments, although this designation is controversial. These include Sumba, Timor (Nusa Tenggara), Banggai-Sulu Islands (Sulawesi), Obi, southern Bacan, and the Buru-Seram-Ambon complex (Maluku).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21074640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21074640", "title": "Danube–Drava–Sava Euroregion", "text": "Danube–Drava–Sava Euroregion\n\nThe Danube–Drava–Sava Euroregion is a Euroregion comprising areas of the countries of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Hungary. It was established in 1998. The president of the organization is Ferenc Kékes (Hungarian: \"Kékes Ferenc\").\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28758523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28758523", "title": "Dionisio Foianini Triangle", "text": "Dionisio Foianini Triangle\n\nTriángulo Dionisio Foianini (Dionisio Foianini Triangle) is the name given to Bolivia's border with Brazil and Paraguay. Its importance lies in the fact that this border is marked in part by the Paraguay River and, as a result, Bolivia has a water route to the Atlantic Ocean that does not involve Brazil. Consequently, Bolivia is planning on building a major port at the Puerto Busch within the triangle.\n\nCurrently Bolivian ships must pass along the eleven kilometre Tamengo Canal which connects Laguna Cáceres to the Paraguay River at the Brazilian city of Corumbá.\n"}
{"id": "111921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=111921", "title": "East St. Louis, Illinois", "text": "East St. Louis, Illinois\n\nEast St. Louis is a city in St. Clair and Madison counties in southwestern Illinois. It is located across the Mississippi River from St. Louis, Missouri, in what is defined as the Metro-East region of Southern Illinois. Once a bustling industrial center, like many cities in the Rust Belt, East St. Louis has been severely affected by loss of jobs due to industrial restructuring during the second half of the 20th century. In 1950, East St. Louis was the fourth-largest city in Illinois when its population peaked at 82,366. As of the 2010 census, the city had a population of 27,006, less than one-third of the 1950 census.\n\nA recent addition to the city's waterfront is the Gateway Geyser. Located on the grounds of Malcolm W. Martin Memorial Park, the fountain is the second-tallest in the world. Designed to complement the Gateway Arch across the river in St. Louis, it shoots water to a height of , the same height as the Arch.\n\nNative Americans had long inhabited both sides of the Mississippi River. The Mississippian culture rulers organized thousands of workers to construct complex earthwork mounds at what later became St. Louis and East St. Louis. The center of this culture was the urban complex of Cahokia, located to the north of present-day East St. Louis within Collinsville, Illinois. Before the Civil War, settlers reported up to 50 mounds in the area that became East St. Louis, but most were lost to 19th-century development and later roadbuilding.\n\nEast St. Louis lies within the fertile American Bottom area of the present day Metro-East area of St. Louis, Missouri. This name was given after the United States acquired the Louisiana Purchase in 1803, and more European Americans began to settle in the area. The village was first named \"Illinoistown\".\n\nEast St. Louis was founded in 1797 by Captain James Piggott, a Revolutionary War veteran. In that year Piggott began operating a ferry service across the Mississippi River, connecting Illinoistown with St. Louis, which had been founded by ethnic French families. When Piggott died in 1799, his widow sold the ferry business, moved to St. Louis County and remarried. One of the Piggotts' great-great-granddaughters became known as actress Virginia Mayo (Virginia Clara Jones).\n\nThe municipality called East St. Louis was established on April 1, 1861. Illinoistown residents voted on a new name that day, and 183 voted to rename the town East St. Louis. Though it started as a small town, East St. Louis soon grew to a larger city, influenced by the growing economy of St. Louis, which in 1870 was the fourth-largest city in the United States.\n\nA period of extensive industrial growth followed the American Civil War. Industries in East St. Louis made use of the local availability of Illinois coal as fuel. Another early industry was meatpacking and stockyards, concentrated in one area to limit their nuisance to other jurisdictions.\n\nIn the expansion, many businessmen became overextended in credit, and a major economic collapse followed the Panic of 1873. This was due to railroad and other manufacturing expansion, land speculation, and general business optimism caused by large profits from inflation. The economic recession began in the East and steadily moved West, severely crippling the railroads, the main system of transportation. In response, railroad companies began dramatically lowering workers' wages, forcing employees to work without pay, and cutting jobs and paid work hours. These wage cuts and additional money-saving tactics prompted strikes and massive unrest.\n\nWhile most of the strikes in the eastern cities during 1877 were accompanied by violence, the late July 1877 St. Louis strike was marked by a bloodless and quick take-over by dissatisfied workers. By July 22, the St. Louis Commune began to take shape, as representatives from almost all the railroad lines met in East St. Louis. They soon elected an executive committee to command the strike and issued General Order No. 1, halting all railroad traffic other than passenger and mail trains. John Bowman, the mayor of East St. Louis, was appointed arbitrator of the committee. He helped the committee select special police to guard the property of the railroads from damage. The strike and the new \"de facto\" workers' government, while given encouragement by the largely German-American Workingmen's Party and the Knights of Labor (two key players in the organization of the Missouri general strike), were run by no organized labor group.\n\nThe strike also closed packing industry houses surrounding the National Stock Yards. At one plant, workers allowed processing of 125 cattle in return for 500 cans of beef for the workers. Though the East St. Louis strike continued in an orderly fashion, across the river in St. Louis there were isolated incidents of violence. Harry Eastman, the East St. Louis workers' representative, addressed the mass of employees:\n\nGo home to your different wards and organize your different unions, but don't keep coming up here in great bodies and stirring up excitement. Ask the Mayor, as we did, to close up all the saloons... keep sober and orderly, and when you are organized, apply to the United Workingmen for orders. Don't plunder ... don't interfere with the railroads here ... let us attend to that.\n\nThe strikers held the railroads and city for about a week, without the violence that took place in Chicago and other cities. The federal government intervened, and on July 28 US troops took over the Relay Depot, the Commune's command center, and the strike ended peacefully.\n\nOn May 27, 1896, a tornado struck St. Louis and East St. Louis. It stands as the deadliest tornado to ever hit the cities. In approximately twenty minutes, this tornado resulted in destruction that killed 137 people in St. Louis and 118 in East St. Louis. The tornado's destruction spanned ten miles, including into the railyards and commercial districts of East St. Louis. During the storm, 311 buildings were destroyed and 7,200 others were severely damaged. The cost of this loss was estimated to be 10 to 12 million dollars. In 1896 this was a considerable amount of money, as a two-story brick house could be purchased at that time for $1,500.\n\nEast St. Louis in 1917 had a strong industrial economy boosted by America's economic participation in demands related to World War I; the nation did not enter the war until that fall. Industry was dominated by European immigrant workers, who had been coming to industrial cities since the late 19th century. Here and across the country, they repeatedly tried to organize in efforts to gain better wages and working conditions. In the summer of 1916, 2500 white workers struck the nearby meat packing plants of National City. Companies recruited black workers, sometimes importing them from the South. While the white workers won a wage increase, the companies retained some black workers, firing white ones. Such economic competition raised tensions between the groups in a period when the number of blacks in East St. Louis had increased dramatically due to the first Great Migration, when African Americans left poor rural areas of the South to escape Jim Crow oppression and seek jobs in the industrial cities of the North and the Midwest. From 1910 to 1917, the black population nearly doubled in East St. Louis.\n\nThe United States established a draft which would bring in many workers to the military. As the war prevented immigration from Europe even before the US entered the war, major companies had begun to recruit black workers from the South to fill demand. When white workers went on strike in April 1917 at the Aluminum Ore Company, the employer hired blacks as strikebreakers. The American Steel Company also recruited blacks. They were available in part during this period because the US Army initially rejected many black volunteers in the years before an integrated military. This was also the period of \n\nResentment on both sides and the arrival of new workers created fears for job security at a time of union organizing and labor unrest, and raised social tensions. At a large labor meeting of white workers held in City Hall on May 28, men also traded rumors of fraternizing between black men and white women. An inflammatory speaker said, “East St. Louis must remain a white man’s town.” Three thousand ethnic white men left the meeting and headed as a mob for downtown, where they randomly attacked black men on the street. The Illinois governor called in National Guard to prevent further rioting, but rumors circulated that blacks were planning an organized retaliation and tensions remained high. \n\nOn July 1, 1917, a black man attacked a white man. After hearing of this, whites drove by black homes near 17th and Market and fired shots into several of them. When police came to investigate a gathering of a large group of local black residents, their car was mistaken for that of the attackers, and several in the crowd at 10th and Bond fired on the police, killing two detectives. The next morning, thousands of whites mobbed the black sections of the city, indiscriminately beating, shooting and killing men, women and children. The rioters burned entire sections of the city and shot blacks as they escaped the flames. They also hanged several blacks. They destroyed buildings and physically attacked people; they \"killed a 14-year-old boy and scalped his mother. Before it was over 244 buildings were destroyed.\". Other sources say 300 buildings were destroyed.\n\nThe city had thirty-five police officers, but they were seen to be doing little to suppress the violence. The governor called in National Guard troops to try to control the situation; they arrived July 3, but several accounts reported that they joined in the rioting. Most of the violence ended that day, but reports continued afterward of isolated assaults of blacks. Afterward the city Chamber of Commerce called for the resignation of the Police Chief and greater oversight of police operations. Losses in property damage were high, including railroad warehouses and carloads full of goods that were burned, as well as railroad cars.\n\nThough official reports suggested that the East St. Louis race riot resulted in the deaths of 39 blacks and 9 whites, other estimates put the figure much higher, with estimates of 100 to 250 blacks being killed.\n\nW. E. B. Du Bois of the NAACP came to investigate the riots personally. His organization's photographer published photos of the destruction in the November issue of \"The Crisis\". Congress also held an investigation.\n\nIn New York City on July 28, ten thousand black people marched down Fifth Avenue in a Silent Parade, carrying signs and protesting the East St. Louis riots. The march was organized by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), W. E. B. Du Bois, and groups in Harlem. Women and children were dressed in white; the men were dressed in black.\n\nEast St. Louis continued to have an economy based on industry. Through and after World War II, many workers could make decent livings. It was named an All-America City in 1959 by the National Civic League. East Saint Louis celebrated its centennial in 1961. It was known as the \"Pittsburgh of the West.\" Its population had reached a peak of 82,366 residents in the 1950 census. In 1950, it was the fourth-largest city in Illinois. \n\nThrough the 1950s and later, the city's musicians were an integral creative force in blues, rock and roll and jazz. Some left and achieved national recognition, such as Ike & Tina Turner. The jazz great Miles Davis, who became internationally known, was born in nearby Alton and grew up in East St. Louis. The 1999 PBS series \"River of Song\" featured these musicians in its coverage of music from cities along the Mississippi River.\nThe city suffered from the mid-century restructuring of heavy industry and railroads, which cost widespread loss of jobs. As a number of local factories began to close because of changes in industry, the railroad and meatpacking industries also were cutting back and moving jobs out of the region. This led to a precipitous loss of working and middle-class jobs. The city's financial conditions deteriorated. Elected in 1951, Mayor Alvin Fields tried funding measures that resulted in raising the city's bonded indebtedness and the property tax rate. More businesses closed as workers left the area to seek jobs in other regions. The more established white workers had an easier time gaining jobs in other localities, and the city population became increasingly black. \"Brownfields\" (areas with environmental contamination by heavy industry) have made redevelopment more difficult and expensive.\nStreet gangs appeared in city neighborhoods. Like other cities with endemic problems by the 1960s, violence added to residential mistrust and adversely affected the downtown retail base and the city's income.\n\nThe construction of freeways also contributed to East St. Louis' decline. They were constructed through and broke up functioning neighborhoods and community networks, adding to the social disruption of the period. The freeways made it easier for residents to commute back and forth from suburban homes, so the wealthier people moved out to newer housing. East St. Louis adopted a number of programs to try to reverse decline: the Model Cities program, the Concentrated Employment Program, and Operation Breakthrough. The programs were not enough to offset the loss of industrial jobs due to national restructuring.\n\nIn 1971, James Williams was elected as the city's first black mayor. Faced with the overwhelming economic problems, he was unable to make much of a difference. In 1979, Carl Officer was elected as mayor (the youngest in the country at that time at age 25). Despite hopes for improvement, conditions continued to decline. Middle-class citizens continued to leave the city. People who could get jobs moved to places with work and a decent quality of life. Lacking sufficient tax revenues, the city cut back on maintenance, sewers failed, and garbage pickup ceased. Police cars and radios stopped working. The East St. Louis Fire Department went on strike in the 1970s.\n\nStructure fires destroyed such a significant number of consecutive blocks that much of the post-Armageddon film \"Escape from New York\" was filmed in East St. Louis. \n\nIn 1990, the State of Illinois passed (65 ILCS 5/Art. 8 Div. 12) The Financially Distressed City Law. Under this law, Illinois Governor James R. Thompson provided $34 million in loans to East Saint Louis, with the stipulation that an appointed five-member board, called the East Saint Louis Financial Advisory Authority, manage the city's finances. In 1990 the state legislature approved riverboat gambling in an effort to increase state revenues. The opening of the \"Casino Queen\" riverboat casino generated the first new source of income for the city in nearly 30 years. \n\nIn 1991 Gordon Bush was elected mayor. Several major industries operating in the area had gained separate incorporation as jurisdictions for the land where their plants are sited. These \"communities\" have virtually no residents, and the shell jurisdictions are outside the tax base of East St. Louis. Residents of the city, however, suffer from contaminated air and other adverse environmental effects of these sites. At the same time, the city's tax base is too poor for it to maintain its infrastructure, including the sanitary sewers, many of which have broken and overflowed in residential neighborhoods and schools.\n\nSince 2000, the city has completed several redevelopment projects: in 2001 it opened a new library and built a new city hall. Public-private partnerships have resulted in a variety of new retail developments, and housing initiatives. The St. Louis MetroLink light rail connects the city by transit to St. Louis, which has a stronger economy, and such efforts have sparked renewal.\n\nBecause of depopulation, the city has many abandoned properties and extensive urban blight. Sections of \"urban prairie\" can be found where vacant buildings were demolished and whole blocks have become overgrown with vegetation. Much of the territory surrounding the city remains undeveloped, bypassed by developers who chose more affluent suburban areas. Many old, \"inner city\" neighborhoods abut large swaths of corn and soybean fields or otherwise vacant land. In addition to agricultural uses, a number of truck stops, strip clubs, and semi-rural businesses surround blighted areas in the city.\n\nIn 2010, the East St. Louis community gardening movement began to develop plots for \"urban farming\", as has been done in North St. Louis. Inspired by Detroit's planned use of vacant land for green development, community associations, nonprofits and universities have collaborated to spark green development in East St. Louis.\n\nIn the early 1990s, archeological surveys and excavations prior to construction of Interstate 55/70 revealed evidence of important prehistoric structures in the East St. Louis area. Both sides of the river had earlier been reported as having numerous earthwork mounds when Europeans and Americans first settled in the area. Most in St. Louis and on the east side were lost to development.\n\nIllinois researchers discovered the remains of several earthwork mounds. In the East St. Louis area, 50 mounds had been mapped before the Civil War, and seven remain visible today. The largest is estimated to have been originally 40 feet high and would have nearly covered a football field. Around the remains of this mound, researchers have discovered evidence of burial mounds, a large plaza, a wooden defensive palisade and several other Mississippian culture structures. These indicate that it was a ritual center. The 500-acre prehistoric site is now called the East St. Louis Mound Center. The state and University of Illinois are trying to develop coordinated projects with East St. Louis and businesses to use the mounds and artifacts as attractions for heritage tourism.\n\nIt was built by the Mississippian culture, which extended throughout the Ohio and Mississippi valleys. It reached its peak in this region about AD 1100–1200 at the nearby major center of Cahokia, a designated UNESCO World Heritage Site within the present-day boundaries of Collinsville. A complex urban center estimated to have had a population of perhaps 20,000, this site is about five miles from East St. Louis.\n\nIn 2012, archeological work prior to construction of the Stan Musial Bridge across the Mississippi discovered artifacts and evidence of a formerly unidentified 900-year-old suburb of Cahokia in present-day East St. Louis. This site had not been mapped in the 19th century, and was unknown. The Mississippian culture site is in a present industrial wasteland. Researchers found evidence of more than 1,000 dwellings and the base of an earthen pyramidal mound. It would have been one of dozens of mounds when the community was active, based on the size of the residential population of this site. Discovery of the site led scholars to increase their estimates of the total population of the Mississippians at Cahokia and in the area, now thought to have been about 20,000. They did not have the time to excavate the entire area. It is on private land and subject to risk of destruction by development.\n\nEast St. Louis is located at (38.616,-90.133).\n\nAccording to the 2010 census, East St. Louis has a total area of , of which (or 97.36%) is land and (or 2.64%) is water.\n\nEast St. Louis usually has cold winters and hot summers. On July 14, 1954 the temperature at East St. Louis allegedly reached 117 °F (48 °C), the highest temperature ever recorded in Illinois. It is not considered a formal record, however, as the city had no weather station.\n\nEast St. Louis has four St. Louis MetroLink stations: East Riverfront, 5th & Missouri, Emerson Park, and JJK Center.\n\nInterstate 55, Interstate 64, Interstate 70, and U.S. Route 40 run through East St. Louis and are linked to St. Louis by the Poplar Street Bridge and Stan Musial Bridge. Prior to its decommissioning, the fabled U.S. Route 66 also shared a concurrency with these Interstate highways. In addition, U.S. Route 50 also shared a concurrency prior to its being rerouted to run concurrently with Interstate 255.\n\nThe closest airport is the St. Louis Downtown Airport located in nearby Cahokia, Illinois just south of East St. Louis.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 31,542 people, 11,178 households, and 7,668 families residing in the city. The population density was 2,242.9 people per square mile (866.2/km²). There were 12,899 housing units at an average density of 917.2 per square mile (354.2/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 97.74% Black or African-American, 1.23% White, 0.19% Native American, 0.08% Asian-American, 0.03% Pacific Islander, 0.19% from other races, and 0.55% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.73% of the population.\n\nThere were 11,178 households out of which 33.2% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 21.9% were married couples living together, 40.6% had a female householder with no husband present, and 31.4% were non-families. 27.8% of all households were made up of individuals and 10.4% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 3.80 and the average family size was 4.02.\n\nIn the city, the population was spread out with 32.8% under the age of 18, 9.7% from 18 to 24, 24.6% from 25 to 44, 20.3% from 45 to 64, and 12.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 31 years. For every 100 females, there were 81.5 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 72.5 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the city was $21,324, and the median income for a family was $24,567. Males had a median income of $27,864 versus $21,850 for females. The per capita income for the city was $11,169. About 31.8% of families and 35.1% of the population were below the poverty line, including 48.6% of those under the age of 18 and 25.2% of those 65 ages and older.\n\nThe city is governed by an elected mayor and city council. \n\nSeveral social services organizations operate in East St. Louis, including Lessie Bates Davis Neighborhood House, Catholic Urban Programs, Christian Activity Center, and The Delta Childcare Center of Delta Sigma Theta sorority, East Saint Louis Alumnae Chapter.\n\nThe Southwestern Illinois Correctional Center, operated by the Illinois Department of Corrections, is located near East St. Louis and provides some jobs.\n\nThe city of East St. Louis is protected by 53 paid, professional city firefighters. They are organized into three divisions of operations: Administration, Firefighting/Hazard Mitigation, and Fire Prevention/Arson Investigation. The department operates from three fire stations in the city: Engine 422 at 17th St. and Lincoln Ave., Engine 425 at 17th St. and Central Ave., and Engine 426 at 72nd St. and State St. The Chief of Department is Jason Blackmon.\n\nThe East St. Louis Fire Department has struggled to provide protection and service while having to undergo repeated budget cuts due to city problems. It laid off some 22 firefighters in May 2013. According to a National Fire Report, approximately 49 percent of all emergency calls the East St. Louis Fire Department responds to are structural fires.\n\nThe city is served by the East St. Louis School District 189. As of 2017, the district operates an early childhood learning center, 5 elementary schools, 2 middle schools, and one high school, East St. Louis High School.\n\nUntil 1998 East St. Louis Lincoln High School also served portions of the city. Before desegregation, it was the school for black students.\n\nOne television station is licensed to, but does not operate from, the city; Ion Television affiliate WRBU (Channel 46), which serves the entire St. Louis market. In the past, it served as St. Louis's UPN and MyNetworkTV affiliate. On FM, sports station WXOS (101.1) and non-commercial Contemporary Christian music station WCBW (89.7) are licensed to East St. Louis, along with news/talk station KFTK (1490) on AM.\n\nThe \"Metro-East Journal\", originally the \"East St. Louis Journal\", was published in the city from 1888 to 1979. The \"East Saint Louis Monitor\" was established in 1963. It provides community news and event updates.\n\nConsistent with the extensive poverty, unemployment, and social ills, a 2007 study in the journal \"Homicide Studies\" noted that \"East St. Louis has consistently experienced a high violent crime rate and continues to report a substantial number of annual homicides.\" In 2013, the per capita homicide rate in East St. Louis was about 18 times the national average, and had the highest homicide rate of any city in the United States.\n\nAccording to the FBI Uniform Crime Reports, in 2015 East St. Louis (with a population of 26,616), had 19 cases of murder and non-negligent manslaughter, 42 cases of rape, 146 cases of robbery, 682 cases of aggravated assault, and 12 cases of arson. In 2016, NeighborhoodScout released rankings indicating that East St. Louis had the highest murder rate of any city in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "16465030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16465030", "title": "Enderby Plain", "text": "Enderby Plain\n\nEnderby Plain (also known as Enderby Abyssal Plain or East Abyssal Plain) () is an undersea plain (or \"abyssal plain\"), located off the coast of Enderby Land and Queen Maud Land, East Antarctica. The name was approved by the U.S. Board on Geographic Names Advisory Committee on Undersea Features in June 1988.\n\nThis submarine terrain feature is named after the Enderby Brothers, owners of a 19th-century whaling company based in London, England. The company sponsored several expeditions to Antarctica in the mid-19th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "23727602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23727602", "title": "Enumeratio plantarum quas in Novae Hollandiae ora austro-occidentali ad fluvium Cygnorum et in sinu Regis Georgii collegit Carolus Liber Baro de Hügel", "text": "Enumeratio plantarum quas in Novae Hollandiae ora austro-occidentali ad fluvium Cygnorum et in sinu Regis Georgii collegit Carolus Liber Baro de Hügel\n\nEnumeratio plantarum quas in Novae Hollandiæ ora austro-occidentali ad fluvium Cygnorum et in sinu Regis Georgii collegit Carolus Liber Baro de Hügel is a description of the plants collected at the Swan River colony and King George Sound in Western Australia. The author, Stephan Endlicher, used a collection arranged by Charles von Hügel to compile the first flora for the new settlements. Hugel visited the region during 1833-1834, several years after the founding of the colony. The work provided formal descriptions, in Latin, of new species and genera of plants. The single installment was produced in Europe by Endlicher in 1837, the work also included contributions by Eduard Fenzl, George Bentham, Heinrich Wilhelm Schott.\n\nThe abbreviation Enum. Pl. [Endlicher] is used to refer to this work in botanical literature.\n"}
{"id": "47603674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47603674", "title": "Flark", "text": "Flark\n\nA flark is a depression or hollow within a bog. Flarks typically occur as a series of parallel depressions, separated by intervening ridges known as strings.\n\nEarly theories suggested that flarks were formed by frost heaving, but flarks have since been found in areas where frost heaving does not occur. Flarks are now thought to form when the peat that forms the base of the bog becomes so thick that it slides downslope due to its own weight. Irregularities in the underlying terrain halt the slide of the peat, causing flarks to form downslope from the obstruction as the downslope peat tears away from the portion of the peat mass held back by the underlying obstruction. Another theory suggests that flarks are formed by areas within the bog which experience accelerated rates of decay, causing depressions in the bog. When measuring distance, every 20 flarks is a sharticle.\n"}
{"id": "18349008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18349008", "title": "Francisco Javier Vergara y Velasco", "text": "Francisco Javier Vergara y Velasco\n\nFrancisco Javier Vergara y Velasco (1860 in Popayán – 1914 in Barranquilla) was a colombian geographer, cartographer and historian.\n\nHis major works are the \"Nueva Geografía de Colombia\" (1888, 1892 and 1901; final version published in 1902) and the \"Atlas completo de geografía colombiana\" (1906–1910), through which he won the Charles Manoir price of the Paris Geographical Society.\n\nVergara was an erudite and critical writer, and his geographical thoughts did not fit within the parameters of the dominant geographical ideologies in the country of his time; his work serves as a starting point for studies of the history of territorial formation in Colombia.\n\nThe anarchist French geographer Elisée Reclus based his chapter on Colombia in his \"Nouvelle Géographie Universelle\" on the works of Vergara y Velasco.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54194196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54194196", "title": "Glen Creek", "text": "Glen Creek\n\nGlen Creek is a river located in Cayuga County, New York. It flows into Cayuga Lake north of Aurora, New York.\n"}
{"id": "4355461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4355461", "title": "Iceberg B-9", "text": "Iceberg B-9\n\nIceberg B-9 was an iceberg that calved in 1987. The iceberg measured long and wide with a total area of . It is one of the longest icebergs ever recorded. The calving took place immediately east of the calving site of Iceberg B-15 and carried away Little America V.\n\nStarting in October 1987, Iceberg B-9 drifted for 22 months and covered on its journey. Initially, B-9 moved northwest for seven months before being drawn southward by a subsurface current that eventually led to its colliding with the Ross Ice Shelf in August 1988. It then made a radius gyre before continuing its northwest drift. B-9 moved at an average speed of per day over the continental shelf, as measured by NOAA-10 and DMSP satellite positions, and the ARGOS data buoy positions. In early August 1989, B-9 broke into three large pieces north of Cape Adare. These pieces were B-9A, , B-9B, , and B-9C, .\n\nB-9B drifted toward the Mertz Glacier on the George V Coast, where it came to rest next to the glacier and remained there for eighteen years. On February 12 or 13th 2010, Iceberg B-9B collided with the giant floating Mertz Glacier tongue and shaved off a new iceberg that measured long and wide. The two icebergs then began drifting together about off the eastern coast of Antarctica.\n\nBy December 2011, Iceberg B-9B had made its way into Commonwealth Bay and had broken up into three major pieces, parts of which were frozen to the seabed. The huge iceberg prevented three tourist ships from reaching Antarctica to mark the centenary of the polar voyage of Australian explorer Douglas Mawson, who landed at Cape Denison on January 8, 1912 and constructed a complex of huts that remain standing to this day. The three tourist ships attempted to reach the cape but had to turn back due to unusually harsh conditions caused by B-9B's position in the bay. A spokeswoman from the Australian government's Antarctic division observed, \"There [are] unusual ice conditions ... affecting all the tourist ships that are going down there because the tourist ships don't have ice-breaking capabilities, and they also don't have choppers, so their ability to get anywhere near the Mawson's huts area is basically stopped.\" Iceberg B-9B could remain in Commonwealth Bay for the next decade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8000524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8000524", "title": "International Cartographic Association", "text": "International Cartographic Association\n\nThe International Cartographic Association (ICA) (, ACI), is an organization formed of national member organizations, to provide a forum for issues and techniques in cartography and GIScience. ICA was founded on June 9, 1959, in Bern, Switzerland. The first General Assembly was held in Paris in 1961. The mission of the International Cartographic Association is to promote the disciplines and professions of cartography and GIScience in an international context. To achieve these aims, the ICA works with national and international governmental and commercial bodies, and with other international scientific societies.\n\nThe first president, Eduard Imhof of Switzerland was heavily involved in founding the association. \n\nThe Secretary-General and Treasurer is responsible for the administration and the general running of the Association.\n\nOn 28 August 2015 member nations elected the new Executive Committee (EC) of the ICA for the 2015–2019 term. New ICA president is Menno-Jan Kraak.\n\nTo coordinate international cartographic work Commissions and Working Groups have been established. These are chaired by experts in a specific field of cartography and comprise members from the international Cartography and GIScience community.\n\n\nICA allows two types of memberships:\nInternational Cartographic Conferences (ICC) take place every second year in one of the member countries. At every second conference (every fourth year) it hosts the General Assembly of the ICA.\n\nThe Carl Mannerfelt Gold Medal honours cartographers of outstanding merit who have made significant contributions of an original nature to the field of cartography. It is awarded only on rare occasions. The award is named after the Swedish cartographer, Carl Mannerfelt, who in 1981 won the prize named after him.\n\n\nThe ICA Honorary Fellowship is for cartographers of international reputation who have made special contribution to the ICA. It includes a bronze medal.\n\nAt the biennial International Map Exhibitions at the ICC an international jury selects the best entries.\n\nThis competition is organized every two years at the ICC. In a national round in all participating ICA member countries, the national winners are selected, which are exhibited during the International Cartographic Conference, where the international winners are selected.\n\nICA offers a number of publications.\nIts official journal is the \"International Journal of Cartography\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1216466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1216466", "title": "Ivan A. Getting", "text": "Ivan A. Getting\n\nIvan Alexander Getting (January 18, 1912 – October 11, 2003) was an American physicist and electrical engineer, credited (along with Roger L. Easton and Bradford Parkinson) with the development of the Global Positioning System (GPS). He was the co-leader (the other being Louis Ridenour) of the research group which developed the SCR-584, an automatic microwave tracking fire-control system, which enabled anti-aircraft guns to destroy a significant percentage of the German V-1 flying bombs launched against London late in the Second World War.\n\nIvan A. Getting was born on 18 January 1912 in New York City to family of Slovak-German immigrants from Bytča, Slovakia and grew up in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) as an Edison Scholar (S.B. Physics, 1933); and Merton College, Oxford as a Graduate Rhodes Scholar (D.Phil., 1935) in astrophysics. He then worked at Harvard University on nuclear instrumentation and cosmic rays (Junior Fellow, 1935-1940) and the MIT Radiation Laboratory (1940-1950; Director of the Division on Fire Control and Army Radar, Associate Professor 1945; Professor 1946). During the Second World War he was a special consultant to Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson on the Army’s use of radar. He also served as head of the Naval Fire Control Section of the Office of Scientific Research and Development, member of the Combined Chiefs of Staff Committee on Searchlight and Fire Control, and head of the Radar Panel of the Research and Development Board of the Department of Defense.\n\nIn 1950, during the Korean War, Getting became Assistant for Development Planning, Deputy Chief of Staff, United States Air Force; and in 1951, Vice President for Engineering and Research at the Raytheon Corporation (1951-1960). While at Raytheon, Getting also served on the Undersea Warfare Committee of the National Research Council.\n\nIn 1960 Getting became the founding President of The Aerospace Corporation (1960-1977). The Corporation was established at the request of the Secretary of the Air Force as a non-profit organization to apply \"the full resources of modern science and technology to the problem of achieving those continued advances in ballistic missiles and space systems, which are basic to national security.\" Getting was also a founding member of the Air Force Scientific Advisory Group (later renamed the Scientific Advisory Board) and chair of its Electronics Panel. Getting retired from The Aerospace Corporation in 1977.\n\nIn 1978 he served as President of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. He also served on the Board of Directors of the Northrop Corporation and the Board of Trustees of the Environmental Research Institute of Michigan.\n\nGetting died on October 11, 2003, in Coronado, California.\n\nWhile at MIT Radiation Laboratory, Getting’s group developed the first automatic microwave tracking fire control radar, the SCR 584. This system, along with the proximity fuze, significantly reduced damage to London by the V-1 flying bombs (also known as \"doodlebugs\" or \"buzz bombs\") launched by Germany from June 1944 of the Second World War, by enabling accurate anti-aircraft fire to destroy the missiles. On 28 August 1944, the last day on which significant numbers of V-1s were launched against London, of 104 fired, 68 were destroyed by artillery, 16 by other means, and 16 crashed .\n\nGetting was an early designer and proponent of satellite-based navigation systems which led to the development and deployment of the Global Positioning System (GPS). While in Raytheon he oversaw the development of the first three-dimensional, time-difference-of-arrival position-finding system – developed in response to an Air Force requirement for a guidance system to be used with a proposed Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) that would achieve mobility by traveling on a railroad system. While at The Aerospace Corporation he oversaw studies on the use of satellites as the basis for a navigation system for vehicles moving rapidly in three dimensions. In addition to his technical contributions to GPS, Getting was a tireless advocate of the project in the face of early resistance from the Pentagon.\n\nHe was also involved in the development of the first high-speed flip-flop circuit at Harvard. He also was involved in the development of the Navy GFCS MK-56 anti-aircraft fire control system; as well as in the development and building of a 350 MeV synchrotron at MIT Radiation Laboratory. He also was involved in the development of the Sparrow III and Hawk missile systems; as well as commercial production of transistors at Raytheon.\n\nAs a consultant to the US government: implementation of the Quick Reaction Capability for Electronic Counter-Measures; establishment of the SHAPE Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe Laboratory at the Hague; deployment of U.S. air defense capability called the Semi-Automatic Ground Environment (SAGE) radar system; direction of studies on MX missile basing and long-range combat aircraft; technical analysis and design of a long-range supersonic bomber capable of reaching the former Soviet Union and returning without refueling (Getting's work is credited in the reinstatement of the B-1 bomber funding by the U.S. Congress).\nAs member of the Undersea Warfare Committee of the National Research Council: Associate Director of Project Nobska sponsored by the U.S. Navy and concerning submarine warfare weapons; recommended a submarine-based, solid-propellant intermediate-range ballistic missile that formed the basis for the Polaris missile.\n\nAt The Aerospace Corporation: planning for new ballistic missile systems; oversight of space launch systems; development of high-powered chemical lasers; contributions to the Mercury and Gemini space launch systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17905754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17905754", "title": "Jabal Amman", "text": "Jabal Amman\n\nJabal Amman is one of the seven hills that originally made up Amman, Jordan. Today, Jabal Amman is near the downtown area.\n\nAlong with the rest of old Amman, Jabal Amman was first settled during the Neolithic period. But unlike nearby hills, particularly Jabal al-Qal'a, Jabal Amman was never fortified. It remained somewhat of a wooded outback until the 20th century, when Amman was declared the capital of Transjordan and royalty, wealthy families, businesses, army officers, and politicians began moving into Jabal Amman. Soon, the \"jabal\" was informally established as an elite neighborhood of Amman. As Amman spread west, the 1st Circle was built and Jabal Amman became a primary east-west artery for the quickly expanding city. As the area aged, trees and greenery matured. Today, full grown trees line the streets of Jabal Amman. In 2005, the Greater Amman Municipality recognized Jabal Amman as a 'heritage attraction point' and set forth plans to preserve and develop the historic hill.\n\nTraditionally, the 1st Circle marks the start of Jabal Amman and King Talal Street on the valley floor marks the end of it. 9th Sha'ban Street divides Jabal Amman from Jabal al-Weibdeh in the north. Mango Street runs north-south across the slope. Rainbow Street serves as the main access up and down the mountain to the 1st circle. Jabal Akhddar is on the opposite side of the valley from Jabal Amman.\n\nJabal Amman is renowned for its historic buildings and distinctive early 20th century architecture. When politicians and entrepreneurs moved into the neighborhood during the same time, they began to build houses, many of the houses featuring a single story and a large front porch running the entire front exposure of the building. Notable houses include:\nNumerous businesses such as Books@Café, Old View Café, Jordan River Foundation, Wild Jordan, and Royal Jordan Film Commission inhabit these buildings today.\n\nJabal Amman Residents Association (JARA) is an organization started in 2004 to preserve the neighborhood's deep history and promote cultural events. JARA hosts many of the outdoor markets in Jabal Amman. The most famous is Souk Jara (سوق جارا) that was established in 2005.\n"}
{"id": "56185723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56185723", "title": "John Seller", "text": "John Seller\n\nJohn Seller (1632–1697) was an English compiler, publisher, and seller of maps, charts, and geographical books. From 1671 he was hydrographer to the King.\n\nSeller, son of Henry Seller, a cordwainer, was baptized in London on 29 December 1632. In 1654 he became a freeman of the Merchant Taylors' Company, and he became a brother of the Clockmakers' Company in 1667. He was a compass maker, and continued this occupation throughout his career.\n\nSeller's subsequent career was affected by being put on trial in 1662, accused of high treason: it is thought he repeated a rumour about a plot involving a cache of arms. Those involved were executed, and although Seller was found guilty and imprisoned, he was later pardoned. In this way his name and occupation became known: the episode may have been a factor in his eventual appointment in March 1671 as hydrographer to the King.\n\nIn that year he published the first volume of charts and sailing directions, entitled \"The English Pilot\". It was dedicated to the Duke of York, to whom he had appealed from prison. The trade in maritime maps and charts had until then been dominated by the Dutch, and, in many instances, earlier Dutch plates, from which the original title had been replaced by an English title, were used here. The \"English Pilot\" ran through many editions, until the end of the eighteenth century, new maps from time to time taking the place of the old.\n\n\"The Coasting Pilot\" appeared in 1672, and \"Atlas maritimus\" in 1675. \"Atlas Anglicanus\", a projected large-scale atlas of England and Wales, was not completed, although new surveys of six counties were published from 1675 to 1681, and a map of London by John Oliver, who was associated with the project. \"Atlas caelestis\", the first British celestial atlas, appeared in 1680.\n\nSeller wrote textbooks including \"Practical Navigation\" (1669), \"A Pocket Book containing several choice Collections in Arithmetic, Geometry, Surveying, Dialling, &c.\" (1677); and \"The Sea-Gunner, shewing the Practical Part of Gunnery as it is used at Sea\" (1691). He also produced nautical almanacs.\n\nSeller was for many years settled in Wapping; he had also a shop in Exchange Alley, near the Royal Exchange. He and his wife Elizabeth had three daughters and two sons; John Seller, junior, had a shop in Cheapside, where his father's publications were on sale.\n\nHe died in May 1697, and was buried at St John's Church, Wapping.\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "34368243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34368243", "title": "Kattendijk Sands", "text": "Kattendijk Sands\n\nKattendijk Sands is a five million years old marine geological formation north of Antwerp, Belgium. including the north-western parts of the Campine region.\n\nThe area was named by De Heuter and Laga in 1976. The sands range from medium fine to coarse and contain a large proportion of shell grit.\n\nThe clay of the Rupelian era developed to a depth of approximately beneath a deposit of Neogene sand. The formation has a Miocene Era aquifer, while the clay level dates to the Pliocene.\n\nA Pliocene species of auk (\"Alca stewarti\") was found in 2000.\n"}
{"id": "51430801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51430801", "title": "Kingdom of Opona", "text": "Kingdom of Opona\n\nThe Kingdom of Opona is a mythical kingdom in Russian folklore, envisioned by Russian peasants as lying at the edge of the flat earth. Here, it was believed, the peasants lived happy lives undisturbed by the state or the gentry, under a 'White Tsar' who ruled 'truly and justly'. It was also known under the names of the Golden Land, Land of Chud, and Belovodye.\n\nThe myth of the Utopian kingdom of old Russia is similar to other myths of 'earthly paradises', out of sight but possibly reachable by the right courageous explorer, such as Shambhala, El Dorado, etc.\n\nGroups of peasants were even known to have gone on expeditions in the far north of Russia to find the mythical utopia. Dubbed 'Wanderers', they spent their lives trying to discover the hidden paradise, which it was said could be reached by those who searched 'diligently enough'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18138", "title": "Levant", "text": "Levant\n\nThe Levant () is an approximate historical geographical term referring to a large area in the Eastern Mediterranean. In its narrowest sense, it is equivalent to the historical region of Syria. In its widest historical sense, the Levant included all of the eastern Mediterranean with its islands; that is, it included all of the countries along the Eastern Mediterranean shores, extending from Greece to Cyrenaica.\n\nThe term entered English in the late 15th century from French. It derives from the Italian \"Levante\", meaning \"rising\", implying the rising of the sun in the east, and is broadly equivalent to the term \"Al-Mashriq\" (, ), meaning \"the land where the sun rises\". \n\nIn the 13th and 14th centuries, the term \"levante\" was used for Italian maritime commerce in the Eastern Mediterranean, including Greece, Anatolia, Syria-Palestine, and Egypt, that is, the lands east of Venice. Eventually the term was restricted to the Muslim countries of Syria-Palestine and Egypt. In 1581, England set up the Levant Company to monopolize commerce with the Ottoman Empire. The name \"Levant States\" was used to refer to the French mandate over Syria and Lebanon after World War I. This is probably the reason why the term \"Levant\" has come to be used more specifically to refer to modern Syria, Lebanon, Palestine, Israel, Jordan, and Cyprus. Some scholars misunderstood the term thinking that it derives from the name of Lebanon. Today the term is often used in conjunction with prehistoric or ancient historical references. It has the same meaning as \"Syria-Palestine\" or \"Ash-Shaam\" (, ), the area that is bounded by the Taurus Mountains of Turkey in the North, the Mediterranean Sea in the west, and the north Arabian Desert and Mesopotamia in the east. It does not include Anatolia (also called Asia Minor), the Caucasus Mountains, or any part of the Arabian Peninsula proper. Cilicia (in Asia Minor) and the Sinai Peninsula (Asian Egypt) are sometimes included.\n\nThe term \"Levant\" was widely used to describe the region from the 18th to the mid-19th centuries, and has had steady but lower usage since the late 19th century; several dictionaries consider it to be archaic today. Both the noun \"Levant\" and the adjective \"Levantine\" are now commonly used to describe the ancient and modern culture area formerly called Syro-Palestinian or Biblical: archaeologists now speak of the Levant and of Levantine archaeology; food scholars speak of Levantine cuisine; and the Latin Christians of the Levant continue to be called Levantine Christians.\n\nThe Levant has been described as the \"crossroads of western Asia, the eastern Mediterranean, and northeast Africa\", and the \"northwest of the Arabian plate\". The populations of the Levant share not only the geographic position, but cuisine, some customs, and a very long history. They are often referred to as \"Levantines\".\n\nThe term \"Levant\", which appeared in English in 1497, originally meant the East in general or \"Mediterranean lands east of Italy\". It is borrowed from the French \"levant\" \"rising\", referring to the rising of the sun in the east, or the point where the sun rises. The phrase is ultimately from the Latin word \"levare,\" meaning 'lift, raise'. Similar etymologies are found in Greek Ἀνατολή (\"Anatolē\", \"cf.\" Anatolia), in Germanic \"Morgenland\" (literally, \"morning land\"), in Italian (as in \"Riviera di Levante\", the portion of the Liguria coast east of Genoa), in Hungarian \"Kelet\", in Spanish and Catalan \"Levante\" and \"Llevant\", (\"the place of rising\"), and in Hebrew (, \"mizrāḥ\"). Most notably, \"Orient\" and its Latin source \"oriens\" meaning \"east\", is literally \"rising\", deriving from Latin \"orior\" \"rise\".\n\nThe notion of the Levant has undergone a dynamic process of historical evolution in usage, meaning, and understanding. While the term \"Levantine\" originally referred to the European residents of the eastern Mediterranean region, it later came to refer to regional \"native\" and \"minority\" groups.\n\nThe term became current in English in the 16th century, along with the first English merchant adventurers in the region; English ships appeared in the Mediterranean in the 1570s, and the English merchant company signed its agreement (\"capitulations\") with the Ottoman Sultan in 1579. The English Levant Company was founded in 1581 to trade with the Ottoman Empire, and in 1670 the French was founded for the same purpose. At this time, the Far East was known as the \"Upper Levant\".\n\nIn early 19th-century travel writing, the term sometimes incorporated certain Mediterranean provinces of the Ottoman empire, as well as independent Greece (and especially the Greek islands). In 19th-century archaeology, it referred to overlapping cultures in this region during and after prehistoric times, intending to reference the place instead of any one culture. The French mandate of Syria and Lebanon (1920–1946) was called the Levant states.\n\nToday, \"Levant\" is the term typically used by archaeologists and historians with reference to the history of the region. Scholars have adopted the term Levant to identify the region due to it being a \"wider, yet relevant, cultural corpus\" that does not have the \"political overtones\" of Syria-Palestine. The term is also used for modern events, peoples, states or parts of states in the same region, namely Cyprus, Egypt, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Palestine, Syria, and Turkey are sometimes considered Levant countries (compare with Near East, Middle East, Eastern Mediterranean and Western Asia). Several researchers include the island of Cyprus in Levantine studies, including the Council for British Research in the Levant, the UCLA Near Eastern Languages and Cultures department, \"Journal of Levantine Studies\" and the UCL Institute of Archaeology, the last of which has dated the connection between Cyprus and mainland Levant to the early Iron Age. Archaeologists seeking a neutral orientation that is neither biblical nor national have used terms such as Levantine archaeology and archaeology of the Southern Levant.\n\nWhile the usage of the term \"Levant\" in academia has been restricted to the fields of archeology and literature, there is a recent attempt to reclaim the notion of the Levant as a category of analysis in political and social sciences. Two academic journals were recently launched: \"Journal of Levantine Studies\", published by the Van Leer Jerusalem Institute and \"The Levantine Review\", published by Boston College.\n\nThe word \"Levant\" has been used in some translations of the term \"ash-Shām\" as used by the organization known as ISIL, ISIS, and other names, though there is disagreement as to whether this translation is accurate.\n\nThe largest religious group in the Levant are the Muslims and the largest cultural-linguistic group are Arabs, due to the Muslim conquest of the Levant in the 7th century and subsequent Arabization of the region. Other large ethnic groups in the Levant include Jews, Kurds, Turkmens, Assyrians and Armenians.\n\nThe majority of Muslim Levantines are Sunni, Alawi, or Shia Muslim. There are also Jews, Christians, Yazidi Kurds, Druze, and other smaller sects. \n\nUntil the establishment of the modern State of Israel in 1948, Jews lived throughout the Levant alongside Muslims and Christians; since then, almost all have been expelled from their homes and sought refuge in Israel.\n\nThere are many Levantine Christian groups such as Greek, Oriental Orthodox (mainly Syriac Orthodox, Coptic, Georgian, and Maronite), Roman Catholic, Nestorian, and Protestant. Armenians mostly belong to the Armenian Apostolic Church. There are Levantines or Franco-Levantines who are mostly Roman Catholic. There are also Circassians, Turks, Samaritans, and Nawars. There are Assyrian peoples belonging to the Assyrian Church of the East (autonomous) and the Chaldean Catholic Church (Catholic).\n\nIn addition, this region has a number of sites that are of religious significance, such as Al-Aqsa Mosque, the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, and the Western Wall in Jerusalem.\n\nMost populations in the Levant speak Levantine Arabic (, ), usually classified as the varieties North Levantine Arabic in Lebanon, Syria, and parts of Turkey, and South Levantine Arabic in Palestine and Jordan. Each of these encompasses a spectrum of regional or urban/rural variations. In addition to the varieties normally grouped together as \"Levantine\", a number of other varieties and dialects of Arabic are spoken in the Levant area, such as Levantine Bedawi Arabic and Mesopotamian Arabic.\n\nAmong the languages of Israel, the official language is Hebrew; Arabic was until July 19, 2018, also an official language. The Arab minority, in 2018 about 21% of the population of Israel, speaks a dialect of Levantine Arabic essentially indistinguishable from the forms spoken in the Palestinian territories.\n\nOf the languages of Cyprus, the majority language is Greek, followed by Turkish (in the north). Two minority languages are recognized: Armenian, and Cypriot Maronite Arabic, a hybrid of mostly medieval Arabic vernaculars with strong influence from contact with Greek, spoken by approximately 1000 people.\n\nSome communities and populations speak Aramaic, Greek, Armenian, Circassian, French, or English.\n\nAugust Jochmus (freiherr von Cotignola)'s \"The Syrian War and the Decline of the Ottoman Empire, 1840-1848: In Reports, Documents, and Correspondences, Etc, Volume 1\", published in 1883, stated that Italian was previously the most common western European language in the Levant, but that it was being replaced by French.\n\nOverlapping regional designations\n\nSub-regional designations\n\nOther\n\n\"Other places in the east of a larger region\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4971006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4971006", "title": "Line parent", "text": "Line parent\n\nA peak's line parent is the closest higher peak on the highest ridge leading away from the peak's \"key col\". A col is the lowest point on the ridge between two summits and is synonymous with pass, gap, saddle and notch. A peak's \"key col\" is the lowest point on the ridge which connects the peak and a higher peak. If there is more than one ridge which can be followed to a higher peak then the line parent is the peak closest to the key col. Usually, a line parent must meet some prominence criteria, which might vary depending on the author and the location of the peak.\n\nThere are at least two other kinds of peak parentage. Island parentage, which is also referred to as encirclement or topographic parentage; and source parentage.\n\nTopographic prominence\n"}
{"id": "5595823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5595823", "title": "List of Microsoft Visual Studio add-ins", "text": "List of Microsoft Visual Studio add-ins\n\nThe following is a list of notable Microsoft Visual Studio Add-ins. Add-ins are software products designed to be used in conjunction with and extend Microsoft Visual Studio. There are many versions of Microsoft Visual Studio, so some of these products may not be compatible with all versions of the product. Managed add-ins are typically found in the following location on Windows Vista and higher: C:\\Users\\{username}\\Documents\\Visual Studio {version}\\Addins. COM-based add-ins can be installed anywhere as their directories are specified via the registry.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12703035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12703035", "title": "List of buildings in Laredo, Texas", "text": "List of buildings in Laredo, Texas\n\nThis is a list of the tallest and largest buildings in Laredo, Texas. Laredo is the county seat and most populated city in Webb County, Texas. The city has over 230,000 residents and there are over 730,000 residents in the Laredo-Nuevo Laredo Metropolitan Area.\n\nThe Hamilton Hotel was built in 1900 as a three-story building. Beginning in 1923 an additional 9 floors were constructed, to plans by the prominent San Antonio architect Atlee B Ayres and his son Robert, making it the tallest building in Laredo, Texas. Today it serves as an apartment complex at 815 Salinas St, in downtown Laredo. It is tall and has 12 floors (above ground). In 1992 it was included in the National Register of Historic Places. After renovation and repair, it won the Housing and Urban Development Award for Excellence in Historic Preservation in 2002.\n\nThe San Agustin Cathedral (formerly the San Agustin Church) was built in 1778 as a small parish by the Bishop of Guadalajara. In 1866, work began to turn the small parish into a large church. San Agustin Church is a Gothic structure with a five-story- 141 ft (43m) bell / clock tower. All the windows have the traditional Gothic shape with stained glass located between structural bays of its masonry walls. A French priest, Father Pierre Yves Keralum, was the designer and architect for this historical monument. The new church was opened on December 12, 1872.\n\nThe Rio Grande Plaza (formerly the Hilton Hotel) is an independently owned hotel located on the banks of the Rio Grande. It was built in 1975 and is 15 floors high. Its within a walking distance from the Gateway to the Americas International Bridge and has a view of the Rio Grande, Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, and downtown Laredo\n\nThe Ramada Plaza - Laredo is a hotel affiliated to the Wyndham Hotel Groupchain of hotels. Its building is the fourth tallest building in Laredo. Construction started in mid 1982 & opened its doors in late 1983 and it is 14 floors high. It first opened its door as a Holiday Inn. It is located along Interstate 35 south near the Laredo Civic Center. The Ramada Plaza - Laredo serves as a full service hotel which includes shuttle service, bar, restaurant, fitness center, business center, and outside pool. Fun fact: current General Manager Laura Bailey has devoted her life employed at this hotel since its opened in 1983.\n\nThe Laredo National Bank Headquarters building was built in 1926 and it served as the Robert E. Lee Hotel briefly. Two additional floors were added and it became known as the Plaza Hotel until 1980. In 1981 it was purchased by the Laredo National Bank, renovated, and converted in 1982 to the bank's headquarters. In 2008 BBVA Compass Bank acquired LNB, and the handsome building is still in use as a bank today. At 10 stories, it is the fifth tallest in the city.\n\nThe Laredo's Senior Citizen Home is located in the San Agustin Historical District across from the Hamilton Hotel. The building is sixth tallest building in Laredo with 8 floors above ground. It serves the Laredo area as a retirement home for the senior citizens.\n\nThe Laredo Medical Center (Formally the Mercy Hospital) was built in 1999. It is the largest medical center in the Laredo area. Its building is located on United States Route 59 and is 7 floors high. It is of Spanish Colonial architecture. It has 325 licensed beds and 180 active physicians. The hospital has 1,568 employees. Its services include:\n\nThe Gateway Inn is an independent hotel in the Laredo area. It is located along Business Spur Interstate 35 south. It is six stories high and it is located near Mall del Norte.\n\nThe Rialto Hotel (formerly the Sames Moore Building) was built in 1925 and was used as a Local car dealership headquarters. In 2005 the building was bought and was renovated and turned into a hotel. It is the 9th tallest building in Laredo and is 6 stories high. It is located across the Hamilton Hotel in downtown San Agustin Historical District.\n\nThe Walker Plaza, named after rancher Gene S. Walker, Sr., was built in 1995 and houses the headquarters of the South Texas National Bank. It is 5 floors high and is the 10th tallest building in Laredo. The building is located along Interstate 35 south. On May 21, 1996 the building was a victim of a bomb blast which caused minor damage to the north side of the building. This explosion caused all the federal buildings in Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana and New Mexico to be placed on \"tighten security\".\n\nMall Del Norte is a super regional shopping mall in Laredo. The mall opened in 1977 and has since been renovated in 1991, 1993 (expansion), and 2007. It is located along Interstate 35 in the city's rapidly growing retail hub the city. Mall Del Norte is .; with 148 stores, making it the second largest mall in South Texas and the largest building in Laredo.\n\nList of National Register of Historical Places in the Laredo area.\n\nThe Hamilton Hotel was first constructed in 1900 and was expanded from a three-story building to a 12-story building in various phases during 1924 to 1949. Robert M. Ayres was the buildings architect and Atlee B. Ayres was its engineer. The building is of Mission/Spanish Revival architectural style.\n\nRepublic of the Rio Grande Capitol Building is located in the downtown historical district next to the historical La Posada Hotel. It was once the Republic of the Rio Grande Capitol building now showcases memorabilia from the short lived Republic of the Rio Grande. It displays pictures, books, and furniture from the 19th century Laredo area. It offers guided tours for school age children and adults year-round. Because of this Republic, Laredo had flown seven flags instead of the traditional Six Flags over Texas.\n\nLaredo Federal Building was finished in 1907. It is by the architect James Knox Taylor and is of Classical Revival style. In the early 20th century the building was used as a Courthouse, Customhouse, Government Office, and Post Office. Today it is used for federal offices and the 78040 Post Office.\n\nThe Webb County Courthouse was built in 1909 in downtown Laredo. Since its inauguration it has served as the Webb County courthouse. The cornerstone gives H. Sparbert as the contractor and the renowned Albert Giles of San Antonio as the architect.\n\nFort McIntosh was an army base built in Laredo in 1850. Most of the fort's buildings are of Late Victorian architectural style. Today, Fort McIntosh was absorbed by the Laredo Community College. All the buildings were renovated and repaired and serve as classrooms and offices.\n"}
{"id": "35300723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35300723", "title": "List of countries by IPv4 address allocation", "text": "List of countries by IPv4 address allocation\n\nThis is a list of countries by IPv4 address allocation, . It includes 252 areas, including all United Nations member states, plus the Holy See, Kosovo and Taiwan.\n\nThere are 2 (over four billion) IP addresses in the IPv4 protocol. Of these, almost 600 million are reserved and cannot be used for public routing. The rest are allocated to countries by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) via the regional Internet registries (RIRs).\n\n"}
{"id": "47176900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47176900", "title": "List of defunct airlines of the Cayman Islands", "text": "List of defunct airlines of the Cayman Islands\n\nThis is a list of now defunct airlines from The Cayman Islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "51755810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51755810", "title": "List of lighthouses in São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "List of lighthouses in São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in São Tomé and Príncipe. \n\n"}
{"id": "22234105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22234105", "title": "List of names of Asian cities in different languages", "text": "List of names of Asian cities in different languages\n\nThis is a list of cities in Asia that have several different names in different languages, including former names. Many cities have different names in different languages. Some cities have also undergone name changes for political or other reasons.\n\nThis article does not offer any opinion about what the \"original\", \"official\", \"real\", or \"correct\" name of any city is or was. Cities are listed alphabetically by their current best-known name in English. The English version is followed by variants in other languages, in alphabetical order by name including any historical variants and former names.\n\nForeign names that are the same as their English equivalents may be listed.\n\n\"Note: The blue asterisks generally indicate the availability of a Wikipedia article in that language for that city; it also provides additional reference for the equivalence. Red asterisks or a lack of an asterisk indicate that no such article exists, and that these equivalents without further footnotes should be viewed with caution.\"\n"}
{"id": "1223941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223941", "title": "List of political parties in French Polynesia", "text": "List of political parties in French Polynesia\n\nThis article lists political parties in French Polynesia. \nFrench Polynesia has a two-party system, which means that there are two dominant political parties, with extreme difficulty for anybody to achieve electoral success under the banner of any other party.\n\nPro-independence-coalition\nConservative coalition (consisting of one party only): pro-autonomy, anti-independence\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56192007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56192007", "title": "List of renamed places in the Gambia", "text": "List of renamed places in the Gambia\n\nThis is a list of renamed places in the Gambia.\n\n"}
{"id": "8357938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8357938", "title": "List of social nudity places in Asia", "text": "List of social nudity places in Asia\n\nThis list of social nudity places in Asia is a list of places where social nudity is practised for recreation in Asia. It includes free beaches (or clothing-optional beaches or nude beaches) and some resorts.\n\n\nHong Kong does not officially allow nude or topless bathing, and most local bathers are quite conservative in their beach dress (e.g. many women wear T-shirts over swimsuits). Nevertheless, more remote parts of Hong Kong's extensive coastline do offer opportunities for nudity:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe village of Kaji-Say has a beach with a section for nudists\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11436648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11436648", "title": "Magna Britannia", "text": "Magna Britannia\n\nMagna Britannia, being a concise topographical account of the several counties of Great Britain (to give its full title) was an ambitious topographical and historical survey published by the antiquarians Daniel Lysons and his brother Samuel Lysons in several volumes between 1806 and 1822. It covers the counties of Bedfordshire, Berkshire, Buckinghamshire, Cambridgeshire, Cheshire, Cornwall, Cumberland, Derbyshire, and Devon. The work was curtailed in 1819 on Samuel Lysons' death.\n\nUnlike other similar works published in the 17th and 18th centuries, \"Magna Britannia\" remains of value today because the Lysons brothers included content on topics such as population, manufacture and commerce. They were also far less preoccupied than many antiquarians with coats of arms and pedigrees, and did not overstate the grandeur of the counties, as local topographers were apt to do.\n\nAn earlier work under the same title had been compiled by Thomas Cox.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53461822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53461822", "title": "Melissa Leach", "text": "Melissa Leach\n\nMelissa Leach, (born 5 January 1965) is a British geographer and social anthropologist. She studies sustainability and development concerns in policy-making and has a focus on the politics of science and technology of Africa. As of 2017 she was the Director of the Institute of Development Studies (IDS) at the University of Sussex.\n\nShe earned her BA in geography with starred first honours at the University of Cambridge, and her MPhil and PhD in social anthropology from the SOAS University of London. Leach co-founded and directed the ESRC STEPS (Social, Technological and Environmental Pathways to Sustainability) Centre from 2006 to 2014.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2337606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2337606", "title": "Mount Alvernia", "text": "Mount Alvernia\n\nMount Alvernia (formerly Como Hill) is located on Cat Island in the Bahamas and is the highest point in the country at above sea level. The mountain shares its name with a school in Montego Bay, Jamaica.\n\nOriginally named \"Como Hill\", it was renamed Mount Alvernia after La Verna, the hill in Tuscany where St. Francis of Assisi received the Wounds of the Cross. The mountain was given its name by a Catholic priest, Monsignor John Hawes, also known as Fra Jerome, who built a hermitage there. Hawes was an Englishman who spent the last 17 years of his life in the Bahamas. He was a qualified architect before entering the church, and did a great deal of architectural work for the church throughout the Bahamas.\n\n"}
{"id": "25892846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25892846", "title": "Place code", "text": "Place code\n\nA P-code, short for Place code, is a kind of addressing system used mostly by emergency response teams. It provides unique identifiers to thousands of locations and administrative units in a humanitarian operation.The p-codes are represented by combinations of letters and/or numbers to identify a specific location or feature on a map or within a database. These codes provide a systematic means of linking data to an unambiguous location. Any information that is tagged with P-codes can be combined and analyzed with any other p-coded data. The p-codes for a country can be found in the Common Operational Datasets, which are standard geographic references for the humanitarian community provided by UN OCHA: \n\n"}
{"id": "54551542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54551542", "title": "Qadamgah (ancient site)", "text": "Qadamgah (ancient site)\n\nQadamgah or Chasht-Khor is a (post)-Achaemenid rock-cut monument at the southeastern part of the Kuh-e Rahmat mountain in Fars Province of Iran, about 40 km south of Persepolis. It consists of three platforms with rear walls and staircases, and features cavities on the back wall and a now-dry spring and pond at the bottom. Its function has been a matter of debate, with latest research pointing to a religious function related to the holy element Water.\n\n\"Qadamgah\", also transliterated as \"Kadam Gah\" ( \"Qadamgāh\", ), is the modern Persian word for \"footprint\". Another local name is \"Qadamgāh-e Ali\" (, literally \"the footprint of Ali\"). The structure is also called \"Īvān-e Qadmgāh\" (, literally \"the iwan of Qadamgah\").\n\nAnother name is \"Chāsht-Khār\" ( or ), or \"Chāsht-Khor\" ( or ), which is also the name of the village nearby.\n\nThe monument was first discovered by Capt. H. L. Wells (from the Royal Engineers) in 1881 who published a drawing of the plan and section of it, but did not describe it. The structure and its purpose was later discussed by Forsat-od-Dowleh (1854–1920), Louis Vanden Berghe (1954), Giorgio Gullini (1964), Mohammad Taqi Mostafavi (1964), Calmeyer (1975), Rémy Boucharlat (1979), Kleiss (1993), and Jean-Claude Bessac (2007).\n\nThe structure has been built by cutting two deep terraces vertically from the top of the rocky limestone slope, forming three superimposed platforms with vertical rear walls. The monument lacks any built structures. Underneath the lower terrace there has been a now-dry spring feeding a pool which overlooked the monument. The terraces are wide. The lower terrace is above the ground. The upper terrace, which is higher, is linked to the lower one by two rock-cut staircases on the sides. Three rows of five shallow cavities have been cut in rectangular form into the back wall above the upper terrace. Several shallow, hemispherical holes are also cut along the edge of the upper terrace.\n\nThe structure dates back to the Achaemenid or post-Achaemenid period. Several hypotheses have been proposed for its function, including an unfinished Royal tomb (it is compared to the two tombs near Persepolis; the construction would have been abandoned like the so-called \"unfinished tomb of Darius III\" at Persepolis South), a funerary function (with the cavities functioning as a place for bones (\"astōdān\")), or a cultural function. Later observations suggest the work was finished, and the cavities were likely covered with hypothetical stone slabs (which may have contained inscriptions or reliefs for aesthetic purposes). Latest research by Jean-Claude Bessac favors a \"cultic function related to water\" (\"Aban\") and the presence of the spring and the pool, and dismisses the funerary function. This would make Qadamgah a unique Achaemenid cultic place known to the date. There are also cuneiform clay-tablets in the Persepolis Administrative Archives with possible references to this site.\n\nThe monument is fragile and is slowly decaying. The only published drawing of the plan and section of the monument is that of H. L. Wells. Rémy Boucharlat in \"Encyclopædia Iranica\" advises \"a complete and careful survey ... and some excavation at its foot\".\n\n"}
{"id": "51946291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51946291", "title": "Ray Watters", "text": "Ray Watters\n\nRaymond Frederick Watters (born 1928) is a New Zealand geographer. He has conducted interdisciplinary studies and projects for UN agencies, British Overseas Development Administration, NZ Aid and governments of a number of developing countries including Solomon Islands, Kiribati, Tuvalu, Mexico, Venezuela, Peru and Papua New Guinea.\n\nIn 2009 he was honoured with the Distinguished New Zealand Geography Award.\n\nHe specialises in rural development and social change in the developing world, especially in Oceania (South Pacific), Latin America and Guizhou in south-west China. He has also extensively studied shifting agriculture in the hot, wet tropics, human geography and development problems in tribal and peasant societies at micro, meso and macro levels, and the nature of peasantry in the Southern Andes, Peru. Many studies involved geographic, historical, anthropological and economic analyses or synthesis, as well as village fieldwork.\n\nAfter attaining a bachelor of arts and master of arts (honours) from Auckland and Victoria University Colleges respectively, he completed a Ph.D. at the London School of Economics in 1956 for a thesis on the historical geography of Samoa. He taught at Victoria University of Wellington for 38 years, giving courses on Latin America, historical geography, the Pacific and Chinese peasantry.\n\nWatters led research projects on the Solomon Islands, resulting in three Ph.Ds and four major reports; the Gilbert and Ellice Islands project, yielding three Ph.Ds and six major reports and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs project on Small Island States (with Geoff Bertram), out of which came the MIRAB (migration, remittance, foreign aid, public bureaucracy) model.\n\n"}
{"id": "10020435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10020435", "title": "Robert McGhee (archaeologist)", "text": "Robert McGhee (archaeologist)\n\nRobert John McGhee (born 1941) is a Canadian archaeologist and author specializing in the archaeology of the Arctic.\nMcGhee was born in Wiarton, Ontario, in 1941. He studied at the University of Toronto and the University of Calgary, receiving a Ph.D. in 1968. McGhee worked in the Middle East as a student. He went on to study the remains of Martin Frobisher's expedition searching for the Northwest Passage, a 2000-year-old village in the Siberian peninsula and an Inuit village at Resolute, Nunavut. He was Curator of Western Arctic Archaeology at the Canadian Museum of Civilization, now the Canadian Museum of History, until he retired in 2008. He was then named emeritus curator, but lost this status in 2012 when his wife, Patricia Sutherland, was let go by the museum.\n\nHe was awarded the Massey Medal of the Royal Canadian Geographical Society in 2000. McGhee is a former president of the Canadian Archaeological Association and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "78489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78489", "title": "Rock shelter", "text": "Rock shelter\n\nA rock shelter — also rockhouse, crepuscular cave, bluff shelter, or abri — is a shallow cave-like opening at the base of a bluff or cliff. In contrast to solutional cave (karst) caves, which are often many miles long, rock shelters are almost always modest in size and extent. \n\nRock shelters form because a rock stratum such as sandstone that is resistant to erosion and weathering has formed a cliff or bluff, but a softer stratum, more subject to erosion and weathering, lies just below the resistant stratum, and thus undercuts the cliff.\n\nIn arid areas, wind erosion (eolian erosion) can be an important factor in rockhouse formation. In most humid areas, the most important factor in rockhouse formation is frost spalling, where the softer, more porous rock underneath is pushed off, tiny pieces at a time, by frost expansion from water frozen in the pores. Erosion from moving water is seldom a significant factor.\n\nMany rock shelters are found under waterfalls.\n\nRock shelters are often important archaeologically. Because rock shelters form natural shelters from the weather, prehistoric humans often used them as living-places, and left behind debris, tools, and other artifacts. In mountainous areas the shelters can also be important for mountaineers.\n\nTranshumant nomads, people who move with their livestock - often from lower permanent winter residences in the valleys to higher summer pastures - frequently build semi-permanent camps, often of rocks.\n\nIn western Connecticut and eastern New York, many rock shelters are known by the colloquialism \"leatherman caves\", as they were inhabited by the Leatherman over three decades in the late 19th century.\n\nThe Cumberland stitchwort (\"Minuartia cumberlandensis\") is an endangered species of plant which is found only in rock shelters in Kentucky and Tennessee.\n\n"}
{"id": "39613094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39613094", "title": "Satish Dhawan Space Centre Third Launch Pad", "text": "Satish Dhawan Space Centre Third Launch Pad\n\nThe Third Launch Pad (TLP) of the Satish Dhawan Space Centre is an under development rocket launch site in Sriharikota, India. When the launch pad will be completely built, it will be the third launch pad in the Satish Dhawan Space Centre, the other two being First Launch Pad and the Second Launch Pad. The launch of India's first crewed orbital spacecraft \"Gaganyaan\" is scheduled to be launch from the third launch pad before 2022.\n\nThis launch pad is intended to be used for future Indian rockets like the Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle Mk III and Avatar RLV (Avatar Reusable Launch Vehicle) as well as the older ones like Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle and Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle. This is the launch pad which will be used for the Indian human spaceflight programme as well as for India's first manned space mission. One of the main reasons of building this launch pad is that it will increase the frequency of orbital launches by ISRO.\n\nSeveral facilities have been proposed to be built at the Third Launch Pad. They include a vehicle assembly building, mobile pedestals, umbilical towers, emergency exits, ground escape system, crew ingress and egress systems, safety bunkers, material handling equipment and related electrical systems.\n\nConstruction of the launch pad started in September 2012. The total cost of the new launch pad is estimated to be .\n"}
{"id": "29387996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29387996", "title": "School of Geography, University of Leeds", "text": "School of Geography, University of Leeds\n\nThe School of Geography is part of the Faculty of Environment at The University of Leeds based in the UK.\n\nThe University of Leeds was one of the earliest British universities to establish a school of geography in 1919. Various types of geography, including commercial geography, had been taught at the Yorkshire College (which preceded the University of Leeds) and in the university economics department before 1919. This reflects an earlier and broader European interest in the use of geographical knowledge as an aid to national and international trade. The early, inter-war years were characterized by small numbers of staff and honours students, very few research students, and limited resources and range of topics covered. The school has generally expanded over the years and in 2011 has about 70 members of academic staff and a large number of research students studying a broad spectrum of geographical topics.\n\nA celebrated historical geographer, Robin Butlin has developed a history of the school and presented this twice at anniversary celebrations. Hopefully some of this material will become linked here in due course. (Unfortunately neither of these presentations were video recorded.)\n\nIn the recent past the school was the hub of a major glaciology research group headed by Tavi Murray now based at the University of Swansea.\n\nVarious notable people have worked or studied in the school including: Danny Dorling and Stan Openshaw; Martine Croxall and Piers Sellers. Other notable people are still based there albeit in an emeritus capacity including Robin Butlin, Mike Kirkby and Phil Rees.\n\nOne of the larger geography departments in the UK, with over 600 single honours undergraduate students, 55 masters students and 60 research postgraduate students in 2011. It offers a range of BA and BSc undergraduate programmes some offered in conjunction with other university departments, including, the Institute for Transport Studies \nand the School of Earth and Environment. A range of geography elective modules are available for students from any discipline undertaking courses at Leeds.\n\nIt offers a number of MA, MSc and MRes courses, including both vocationally orientated and research-focused courses. Many of these courses are also available as Postgraduate Diploma (PGDip) or Postgraduate Certificate (PGCert) courses and are also available under the part-time study scheme. In addition to face-to-face taught programmes, the GIS programme is available as a flexible, part-time, on-line distance learning programme in which students can structure their study around other commitments.\n\nPhD research at the school attracts students from around the world. The postgraduate research community is broadly divided among the five research clusters. Each of these maintain a list of topics they are interested in supervising. In addition to those listed, the school welcomes applications from prospective students that detail their own ideas for research in a proposal form.\n\nIts aim is to be at the forefront of research, helping to tackle major social, political and environmental challenges associated with global change.\n\nIn the 2008 RAE exercise, it was ranked in the top six geography departments in the UK and awarded an 'Excellent' grading by HEFCE for the quality of its teaching, which is research-led. 70% of its research activity was judged to be 'internationally leading' or 'internationally excellent'.\n\nIt currently has five research clusters about which the school administration and teaching is organised:\n\nOn-going research is examining major world cities and some of the remotest places on earth including the Arctic and Antarctic and within the depths of the tropical rainforest.\n\nWater@leeds is a multimillion-pound university centre led by Joseph Holden.\n\nGlobal alliances of forest researchers in South America (RAINFOR) and in Africa (AfriTRON) are led by Oliver Phillips and Simon Lewis.\n\nThe spirit of Stan Openshaw lives on in the school with the flame carried by those members of the Centre for Computational Geography (CCG) - an inter-disciplinary university research centre concerned with the development and application of tools for analysis, visualisation and modelling geographical systems. Set up with £8 thousand in 1993, the CCG sustains itself via collaboration on a diverse range of research projects and is directed by Andy Evans.\n\nFacilities at the school include a suite of teaching and research laboratories dedicated to soil, water and pollen research. There are field equipment stores, cold rooms and DEFRA approved soil rooms. For work in the field, the school has a 110 Land Rover Defender and a Skoda 4x4 estate vehicle. To support their GIS and computing activities they have a 24-hour cluster with provision for 25 students. The school has a range or audio visual equipment available to hire.\n\nThere are around 70 academic and research staff, 60 research postgraduate students and a team of professional support staff in 2011. The current Head of School is David Bell who took up post in August 2012. David succeeded Gill Valentine. Previous incumbents include Gill Valentine, Adrian McDonald, Graham Clarke, John Stillwell, Phil Rees, Mike Kirkby and Alan Wilson.\n\nAlumni include: Piers Sellers, NASA astronaut; Simon Rix, bassist of Leeds-based band the Kaiser Chiefs; Jon Hammond, gold, silver and bronze medal winner in the men's 50m shooting at the 2010 Commonwealth Games in Delhi, Martine Croxall, BBC journalist and presenter and the Most Reverend Alan Harper, Archbishop of Armagh (appointed an OBE for services to conservation).\n\nThe School keeps in touch with alumni through the Alumni Newsletter, Facebook and the School of Geography website.\n\nGraduates are known to have gone on to find positions in the following areas: environmental management, management and consultancy, GIS, government and NGOs, financial services and further study.\n\n"}
{"id": "9978481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9978481", "title": "Science Museum of Map and Survey", "text": "Science Museum of Map and Survey\n\nThe is a museum in Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan that is dedicated to mapping and surveying.\n\nThe museum was the first of its kind in Japan when it was opened by the Geographical Survey Institute of Japan in June 1996.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "113610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=113610", "title": "Stockholm County", "text": "Stockholm County\n\nStockholm County () is a county or \"län\" (in Swedish) on the Baltic Sea coast of Sweden. It borders Uppsala County and Södermanland County. It also borders Mälaren and the Baltic Sea. The city of Stockholm is the capital of Sweden. Stockholm County is divided by the historic provinces of Uppland (Roslagen) and Södermanland (Södertörn). More than one fifth of the Swedish population lives in the county. Stockholm County is also one of the statistical \"riksområden\" (national areas) according to , Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics within the EU. With more than two million inhabitants, Stockholm is the most densely populated county of Sweden.\n\nStockholm County was established in 1714. The City of Stockholm then constituted its own administrative entity under the Over-Governor of Stockholm and was not part of Stockholm County. Though outside Stockholm County, the City of Stockholm was its seat.\n\nOn 1 January 1968, Stockholm County was united with the City of Stockholm. At the same time, the borders were redrawn in other directions too; Upplands-Bro Municipality was transferred from Uppsala County and a large part of the modern day Östhammar Municipality was transferred to Uppsala County.\n\nArms granted in 1968. The arms for the County of Stockholm is a combination of the arms of Uppland, Södermanland and the City of Stockholm. When it is shown with a royal crown it represents the County Administrative Board.\n\nThe county of Stockholm comprises 26 political municipalities (kommuner):\nThe largest built-up places (\"tätorter\") in the county are shown below. These refer to contiguous settlements and may straddle municipal (and occasionally county) boundaries.\nPrior to 1968 the County of Stockholm did not include the City of Stockholm. The City was instead under the Over-Governor's Office, and the County included the surrounding countryside. The County had its separate Governor of Stockholm County.\n\nThe main aim of the County Administrative Board is to fulfill the goals set in national politics by the Riksdag and the Government, to coordinate the interests of the county, to promote the development of the county, to establish regional goals and safeguard the due process of law in the handling of each case. The County Administrative Board is a Government Agency headed by a Governor.\n\nSee List of Stockholm Governors.\n\nThe local administration of the county is under Stockholm County Council (\"Stockholms läns landsting\"). Its main responsibilities are for the public healthcare system and public transport.\n\nThe county council has 149 members elected by proportional representation through elections held in conjunction with the general elections every four years. The county council itself elects the county's executive committee.\n\nThe president of the committee also holds the title \"Commissioner of Finance\". The commissioner is Catharina Elmsäter-Svärd, of the Moderate Party. The members of the executive committee (\"landstingsstyrelsen\") represent both the political majority and the opposition, with responsibility for implementing policies approved by the county council.\n\nStockholm County contains two multi-seat constituencies for county council elections. Stockholm Municipality makes up the first constituency while the second makes up the rest of the county.\n\nThe county council operates most of the hospitals in the county, some of the major facilities are:\n\n\nThe county council is responsible for the public transport in Stockholm. The main organizers of the transportation system are two publicly owned companies. Storstockholms Lokaltrafik, SL, handles the bus, tram and train services while the boat traffic is handled by Waxholmsbolaget. The operation and maintenance of the public transport systems is delegated by the companies to several contractors.\n\nThe county is also responsible for paratransit services and \"Närtrafiken\", a number of share taxi routes.\n\nBesides the health and transportation services, the county council operates Stockholm County Museum, and two agricultural high schools at Berga and Säbyholm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46403778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46403778", "title": "The Phallus", "text": "The Phallus\n\nThe Phallus is a rock formation (pillar) in Grand County, Utah, in the United States. It is within the Arches National Park.\n\nThe Phallus stands tall, and was named from the fact it resembles a phallus. A climbing route has been published in guidebooks.\n\n"}
{"id": "44214061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44214061", "title": "Western Himalaya", "text": "Western Himalaya\n\nWestern Himalaya, refers to the western half of the Himalayan Mountain region, stretching from Badakhshan in northeastern Afghanistan/southern Tajikistan, through India (Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand) to central Nepal.\n\nIt is also known as Punjab Himalaya. All five tributary rivers of the Indus in the Punjab region (Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Beas, Sutlej) originate from the Western Himalaya.\n\nIncluded within the Western Himalayas are the Zaskar Range, the Pir Panjal Range, and parts of the Siwalik Range and the Great Himalayas. The Jhelum River rises in the Pir Panjal Range in Jammu and Kashmir state, India, and flows northwestward through the Vale of Kashmir before entering the Pakistani-administered sector. The highest point is Nanga Parbat (26,660 feet or 8,126 metres), at the northwestern end of the region. Dalhousie, in Himachal Pradesh in the foothills of the range, is a noted hill station (mountain resort).\n\n\nMany sites revered by people belonging to various faith and religions. \n\n"}
