{"id": "44766586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44766586", "title": "Adolphe Schloss", "text": "Adolphe Schloss\n\nAdolphe Schloss (10 August 1842 – 31 December 1910) was a French art collector.\n\nSchloss was born to a Jewish family in Furth, Lower Bavaria. He married Mathilde Lucie Haas and together they collected 333 works from the Northern and Southern Netherlands that became notable as a collection between World War I and World War II. They held a gallery at salon Adolphe Schloss residence 38, avenue Henri Martin, Paris. After Adolphe's death there, his collection became the property of his wife Lucie, who died in 1938 and the collection was left to their children Marguerite, Henry, Juliette and Lucien. They moved the collection to Chambon for safekeeping during the war, where it was looted by the Vichy government in 1943. Of the 333 objects, only 230 were actually offered to the Hitler museum and 49 were saved for France and given to the Louvre. After the war all were lost, but gradually 148 objects could be rediscovered.\n\n"}
{"id": "859663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=859663", "title": "Arnold Mindell", "text": "Arnold Mindell\n\nArnold Mindell (born January 1, 1940) is an American author, therapist and teacher in the fields of transpersonal psychology, body psychotherapy, social change and spirituality. He is known for extending Jungian dream analysis to body symptoms, promoting ideas of ‘deep democracy,’\nArnold Mindell was born in Schenectady, New York. He studied applied physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and then at the ETH Zürich, Switzerland. Mindell was introduced to Jungian psychology in Switzerland following a chance encounter with Franz Riklin, then president of the C.G. Jung Institute.\nMindell subsequently entered analysis with Riklin and Marie-Louise von Franz and trained as a Jungian analyst at the Jung Institute. He has a Ph.D. in psychology from the Union Institute.\n\nMindell received the Jungian analyst diploma in 1970 and worked at the C. G. Jung Institute as a teacher and training analyst until he left in 1985. In the early 1980s, Mindell and colleagues began the first training program for process oriented psychology, in Zürich; and in 1982 founded what is now known as the Institute for Process Work (Institut für Prozessarbeit IPA), an accredited training institute for psychotherapy in Switzerland.\n\nIn the late 1980s Mindell and his wife, Amy Mindell, moved back to the United States from Switzerland, causing some controversy in the small coastal town of Yachats, Oregon, with plans to build a seminar venue. In 1990, Mindell and colleagues established a center for teaching process oriented psychology in Portland, Oregon, now known as the Process Work Institute, which in 2001 was the subject of a controversial ethics complaint. The Mindells settled in Oregon, and in 2013 were invited by the Yachats Academy of Arts and Sciences to present a lecture on their conflict resolution and open forum work around the world.\n\nMindell features prominently in Micah Toub’s 2010 memoir \"Growing Up Jung\". Toub represents Mindell as a charismatic, unconventional post-Jungian teacher and psychotherapist who was a “a guru-like figure” for Toub’s parents.\n\nMindell founded and developed process oriented psychology, also known as Process Work. Core ideas include his ‘dreambody’ concept and the application of psychology to social issues and conflict resolution in large groups, known as ‘worldwork’ and the principle of ‘deep democracy.’\nMindell’s first book, \"Dreambody: The Body's Role in Revealing the Self\" (1982), linked ‘the mind’s dreaming process with illness and physical symptoms as well as with disciplines such as yoga and tai chi.’ Mindell is known for suggesting that ‘symptoms are dreams trying to come true.’\n\nStanislav Grof has described Arnold Mindell as one of the ‘pioneers of transpersonal psychology.’ In 2012, Mindell was one of five people recognized with a Pioneer Award from the US Association of Body Psychotherapy. He is a holder of the World Certificate for Psychotherapy (WCPC) awarded by the World Council for Psychotherapy.\n\nIn the 2017 critical exploration of the relationship between African Americans and C.G. Jung’s analytical psychology, Fanny Brewster describes Mindell’s dreambody work and his linking of body symptoms and psychological development. Brewster finds that Mindell’s development of Jungian ideas are aligned with traditional African concepts of healing which link mind and body: \n\nMindell has been described as ‘a natural interculturalist who excels at building relationships across cultural boundaries.’ Mindell’s intercultural skills include a focus on the importance of nonverbal elements of communication and the ‘ability to switch viewpoints and join the other’s reality.’\n\nMindell has been the subject of two Thinking Allowed programs, the independent television series hosted by Jeffrey Mishlove.\nHe has been interviewed on Shrink Rap Radio (2008), New Dimensions Radio (2009, 1995) and Somatic Perspectives on Psychotherapy (2009).\n\nMindell has been criticised for teaching New Age concepts and practices that are unclear and unknown within the mainstream of psychology; and it is noted that he is not licensed as a clinical psychologist in Oregon. Mindell’s dreambody work has been criticized as a form of 'metaphysical healthcare'; while another commentator referred to process oriented psychology as an example of a transpersonal psychology with the potential, he claimed, to be misused as a form of 'mind control.'\n\nThe ‘dreambody’ concept was developed in the 1970s while Mindell was a practicing Jungian analyst, derived from his observation of connections between people’s dreams and their body symptoms and published in \"Dreambody: the Body's Role in Revealing the Self\" (Routledge, 1982). Mindell’s therapeutic technique has been compared to Fritz Perls: “The most striking difference, at least from Perls himself, is one of mood – Mindell's work is playful, supportive and permissive rather than confrontational.” Another commentator writes: “Mindell … exemplifies both the good and bad of contemporary dreamwork. On the first score: there is a bit of flim-flam about Mindell. And he conspicuously overemploys the first person singular while extolling non-ego functions. Also, he interprets disease processes so positively that they begin to lose their catagogic authenticity. But on the second score: he is inventive, creative, intuitive, holistic, and affirmative. He breaks down prevailing categories and finds authentic meanings where our culture traditionally does not. And he helps people.”\n\nIn 1995 Mindell extended the dreambody concept to a theory and practice of working with people in coma and near death states; this work inspired a UK theatre production by Improbable theatre. In his 1988 book, \"City Shadows: Psychological Interventions in Psychiatry,\" Mindell presented his approach to psychiatric disorders, drug addiction and mental retardation. The book provides verbatim case studies describing interventions focused on the meaning of the patient’s unusual communication, including non-verbal signals.\n\nMindell's 1990 book, \"Working on Yourself Alone: Inner Dreambody Work,\" presents a meditation practice that focuses attention on subtle body experiences and amplifies them to reveal unexpected information and meaning for the meditator. It provides a model for creative spiritual practice involving inner reflection and personal development. In the 2002 work, Dreaming while Awake: Techniques for 24-hour Lucid Dreaming, Mindell built on ideas of lucid dreaming, indigenous traditions and Zen Buddhism to create an awareness practice for daily life: paying attention to thoughts and perceptions that are normally dismissed, which he calls ‘flirts’ from the ‘Dreaming.’\n\nMindell has also published books dealing with large group conflict resolution and leadership, notably \"The Leader as Martial Artist: An Introduction to Deep Democracy\" (1992) and \"Sitting in the fire: Large Group Transformation Using Conflict and Diversity\" (1995). Mindell advances a concept and principle he calls ‘deep democracy' and the approach has been compared to the work of Danaan Parry. Mindell’s group conflict work has been reported within a business setting and within large community forums working with racism and other social tensions. Mindell's concept of 'rank,' published in his book \"Sitting in the Fire\", has been used to support greater gender awareness in mediation training.\n\nMindell’s work is known for proposing analogies between the concepts of mathematics, classical and quantum physics and psychological experiences; his books include simple exercises to guide the reader to explore their own experience of these ideas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13326494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13326494", "title": "Arthur Green", "text": "Arthur Green\n\nArthur Green (, born March 21, 1941) is an American scholar of Jewish mysticism and Neo-Hasidic theologian. He was a founding dean of the non-denominational rabbinical program at Hebrew College in Boston, where he still teaches. He describes himself as an American Jew who was educated entirely by the generation of immigrant Jewish intellectuals cast up on American shores by World War II.\n\nArthur (Art) Green grew up in Newark, New Jersey in a nonobservant Jewish home and attended Camp Ramah. He describes his father as a \"militant atheist,\" but his mother, from a traditional family, felt obligated to give her son a Jewish education. He was sent to a liberal Hebrew School in the congregation of Rabbi Joachim Prinz. Later he attended the synagogue of Max Gruenewald in Millburn, New Jersey. At Camp Ramah, his introductory Talmud teacher was Professor David Weiss-Halivni.\n\nIn 1957, he began his studies at Brandeis University, where he went through a crisis of faith and sought new approaches to Judaism. It is there that he encountered mystical Judaism. Green's professors at Brandeis included Nahum Glatzer and Alexander Altmann. During his college years, he also met Rabbi Zalman Schachter-Shalomi, who became a lifelong friend and mentor.\n\nAfter college, Green trained for the rabbinate at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, where he studied privately with Abraham Joshua Heschel.\n\nGreen returned to Brandeis in 1967, earning his doctorate with Professor Altman. His dissertation became his book \"Tormented Master: The Life and Spiritual Quest of Rabbi Nahman of Bratslav\".\n\nIn 1968, Green founded Havurat Shalom, an experiment in Jewish communal life and learning that became the fountainhead of the Havurah movement in American Jewish life.\n\nBetween 1973-1984, Green taught in the Religious Studies Department of the University of Pennsylvania. In 1984 he became dean, and then president, of the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College in Philadelphia. In 1993, he was appointed Philip W. Lown professor of Jewish Thought at Brandeis, inheriting a chair that had been created for his mentor Professor Altmann. In 2003 he was invited to create a new non-denominational Rabbinical School at Hebrew College.\n\nGreen has published both academic works on the intellectual history of Jewish mysticism and Hasidism, as well as writings of a more personal theological sort. \"Radical Judaism\", said to be his most important theological work, was published by Yale University Press in 2010, based on a series of lectures he delivered at Yale University in the Fall of 2006.\n\nGreen is also known as a translator and commentator of Hasidic sources and is a key figure in the articulation of a Neo-Hasidic approach to Judaism. His two edited volumes (together with A. E. Mayse) \"A New Hasidism: Roots and Branches\", is to appear in 2018, published by the Jewish Publication Society.\n\nGreen’s works have been translated into seven languages, including Hebrew. The Hebrew version of Tormented Master (\"Ba’al ha-Yissurim\"—בעל היסורים) was an influential best-seller in Israel, where Green visits and lectures frequently. An expanded Hebrew version of Radical Judaism (יהדות רדיקלית: פתיחת שער למבקשי דרך) appeared in 2016.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6923347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6923347", "title": "Badami cave temples", "text": "Badami cave temples\n\nThe Badami cave temples are a complex of four Hindu, a Jain and possibly Buddhist cave temples located in Badami, a town in the Bagalkot district in northern part of Karnataka, India. The caves are considered an example of Indian rock-cut architecture, especially Badami Chalukya architecture, which dates from the 6th century. Badami was previously known as Vataapi Badami, the capital of the early Chalukya dynasty, which ruled much of Karnataka from the 6th to the 8th century. Badami is situated on the west bank of a man made lake ringed by an earthen wall with stone steps; it is surrounded on the north and south by forts built in later times.\n\nThe Badami cave temples represent some of the earliest known examples of Hindu temples in the Deccan region. They along with the temples in Aihole transformed the Malaprabha River valley into a cradle of temple architecture that influenced the components of later Hindu temples elsewhere in India.\n\nCaves 1 to 4 are in the escarpment of the hill in soft Badami sandstone formation, to the south-east of the town. In Cave 1, among various sculptures of Hindu divinities and themes, a prominent carving is of the Tandava-dancing Shiva as Nataraja. Cave 2 is mostly similar to Cave 1 in terms of its layout and dimensions, featuring Hindu subjects of which the relief of Vishnu as Trivikrama is the largest. The largest cave is Cave 3, featuring Vishnu-related mythology, and it is also the most intricately carved cave in the complex. Cave 4 is dedicated to revered figures of Jainism. Around the lake, Badami has additional caves of which one may be a Buddhist cave. Another cave was discovered in 2015, about from the four main caves, with 27 Hindu carvings.\n\nThe Badami cave temples are located in the town of Badami in the north-central part of Karnataka, India. The temples are about east of Belgavi (IATA Code: IXT), and northwest of Hampi. The Malaprabha River is away. The cave temples are from the UNESCO world heritage site Pattadakal and from Aihole – another site with over a hundred ancient and early medieval era Hindu, Jain and Buddhist monuments.\nBadami, also referred to as \"Vatapi\", \"Vatapipura\", \"Vatapinagari\" and \"Agastya Tirtha\" in historical texts, the capital of Chalukya dynasty in the 6th century, is at the exit point of a ravine between two steep mountain cliffs. Four cave temples in the escarpment of the hill to the south-east of the town were carved into the cliff's monolithic stone face. The escarpment is above a man made lake called Agastya Lake, created by an earthen dam faced with stone steps. To the west end of this cliff, at its lowest point, is the first cave temple. The largest and highest cave is Cave 3, which is further to the east on the northern face of the hill. The fourth cave, Cave 4, is a few steps down further east.\n\nThe cave temples, numbered 1 to 4 in the order of their creation, in the town of Badamithe capital city of the Chalukya kingdom (also known as Early Chalukyas)are dated from the late 6th century onwards. The exact dating is known only for Cave 3, which is a temple dedicated to Vishnu. An inscription found here records the dedication of the shrine by Mangalesha in \"Saka 500\" (lunar calendar, 578/579CE). The inscription, written in the old Kannada language, has enabled the dating of these rock cave temples to the 6th century. This makes the cave the oldest firmly-dated Hindu cave temple in India.\n\nThe Badami caves complex is part of a UNESCO-designated World Heritage Site candidate under the title \"Evolution of Temple ArchitectureAihole-Badami-Pattadakal\" in the Malaprabha river valley, considered a cradle of temple architecture that formed the model for later Hindu temples in the region. The artwork in Caves 1 and 2 exhibit the northern Deccan style of the 6th and 7th centuries, while those in Cave 3 simultaneously represent two ancient Indian artistic traditions; the northern Nagara and the southern Dravida styles. Cave 3 also shows icons and reliefs in the so-called \"Vesara\" style, a fusion of ideas from the two styles, as well as some of the earliest surviving historical examples in Karnataka of yantra-chakra motifs (geometric symbolism) and colored fresco paintings. The first three caves feature sculptures of Hindu icons and legends focusing on Shiva and Vishnu, while Cave 4 features Jain icons and themes.\n\nThe Badami cave temples are carved out of soft Badami sandstone on a hill cliff. The plan of each of the four caves (1 to 4) includes an entrance with a verandah (\"mukha mandapa\") supported by stone columns and brackets, a distinctive feature of these caves, leading to a columned mandapa, or main hall (also \"maha mandapa\"), and then to the small, square shrine (sanctum sanctorum, \"garbha ghriya\") cut deep inside the cave. The cave temples are linked by a stepped path with intermediate terraces overlooking the town and lake. The cave temples are labelled 1–4 in their ascending series; this numbering does not reflect the sequence of excavation.\n\nThe architecture includes structures built in the Nagara and Dravidian styles, which is the first and most persistent architectural idiom to be adopted by the early chalukyas.\n\nCave 1 is about above ground level on the north-west part of the hill. Access is through a series of steps that depict carvings of dwarfish ganas in different postures as if they hold the cave floor. The verandah, with an inner measurement of by , has five columns sculpted with reliefs of flower garlands, foliage and jewelry.\n\nThe cave portrays the Tandava-dancing Shiva as Nataraja on the rock face to the right of entrance. The image, tall, has 18 arms in a form that expresses the dance positions arranged in a geometric pattern, which Alice Bonera Swiss art historian and Indologist, states is a time division symbolizing the cosmic wheel. The eighteen arms express Natya mudras (symbolic hand gestures), with some holding objects such as drums, a flame torch, a serpent, a trident and an axe. Shiva has his son Ganesha and the bull Nandi by his side. Adjoining the Nataraja, the wall depicts the goddess Durga of Shaktism tradition slaying the buffalo-demon Mahishasura.\n\nOn the left of the entrance is a two handed Shaiva dvarapala who holds a trident, and below him is a bull-elephant fused image where they share a head; seen from left it is an elephant and from right a bull. Once inside the veranda, the cave presents a carved sculpture of Harihara, a high sculpture of a fused image that is half-Shiva and half-Vishnu. He is flanked on respective sides with the goddesses Parvati and Lakshmi. To the right, toward the end of the wall, is a relief sculpture of Ardhanarishvara, a fused image of Shiva and his consort Parvati. Next to the half that represents Parvati is an attendant carrying a tray of jewels. Next to the Ardhanarishvara half that represents Shiva is Nandi the bull, and skeletal Bhringi, a devotee of Shiva.\n\nInside this cave, the sons of Shiva, Ganesha and Kartikeya, the god of war and family deity of the Chalukya dynasty, are seen in one of the carved sculptures on the walls of the cave, with Kartikeya riding a peacock. The roof of the cave has five carved panels with the central panel depicting the Nagaraja, with flying couples on both sides. The head and bust are well formed and project from the centre of the coil. In another compartment a bas-relief in diameter has carvings of a male and female; the male is Yaksha carrying a sword and the female is Apsara with a flying veil. The succeeding panel has carvings of two small figures and the panel at the end is carved with lotuses.\n\nAll the figures are adorned with carved ornaments and surrounded by borders with reliefs of animals and birds. The lotus design is a common theme. On the ceiling are images of the Vidyadhara couples as well as couples in courtship and erotic Mithuna scenes. Through a cleft in the back wall of the cave is a square sanctuary with more carved images. In the mandapa is a seated Nandi facing the \"garbha ghriya\" (sacrum sanctum) containing a Shiva linga.\n\nCave 2 is above and to the east of Cave1 and faces north. It was created in late 6th or early 7th century. It is smaller than Cave 1, somewhat similar in terms of its floor plan, but it is dedicated primarily to Vishnu. Cave2 is reached by climbing 64 steps from the first cave. The cave entrance is a verandah divided by four square pillars with ends as half pillars, all carved out of the monolithic stone face. The pillars have decorative carvings with frieze of \"ganas\" (mythical dwarfs) with various facial expressions. On the two sides of the entrance are standing \"dvarapalas\" (guardians) holding flowers, not weapons. Like Cave1, Cave 2 art reflects Hindu theology and arts.\n\nThe largest relief in Cave 2 depicts the legend of Vishnu in his Trivikrama form, taking one of the . Below the raised step is a frieze showing the legend of Vamana dwarf avatar of Vishnu, before he morphs into the Trivikrama form. Another major relief shows the legend of Vishnu in his Varaha (a boar) avatar rescuing goddess earth (Bhudevi) from the depths of cosmic ocean, with a penitent multi-headed snake (\"Nāga\") below. Like other major \"murti\" (statue) in this and other Badami caves, the Varaha artwork is set in a circle and symmetrically laid out; according to Alice Boner, the panel is an upright rectangle whose \"height is equal to the octopartite directing circle and sides are aligned to essential geometric ratios, in this case to the second vertical chord of the circle\". The walls and ceiling have traces of colored paint, suggesting the cave used to have fresco paintings.\n\nInside the temple are friezes showing stories from Hindu texts such as the \"Bhagavata Purana\". These show the legend of cosmic ocean churning (\"Samudra Manthan\") and Krishna's birth and flute playing indicating the theological and cultural significance of these in 7th century India. The ceiling and door head carvings show Gajalakshmi, the swastika symbols, flying couples, Brahma, Vishnu asleep on Shesha and others.\n\nThe ceiling of Cave 2 shows a wheel with sixteen fish spokes in a square frame. The end bays have a flying couple and Vishnu on Garuda. The main hall in the cave is wide, deep, and high and is supported by eight square pillars in two rows. The roof of this hall has panels filled with bas-relief carvings. The sculptures of Cave 2, like Cave 1, are of the northern Deccan style of the 6th and 7th century similar to that found in Ellora caves.\n\nCave 3 is earliest dated Hindu temple in the Deccan region. It is dedicated to Vishnu; it is the largest cave in the complex. It has intricately carved friezes and giant figures of Trivikrama, Anantasayana, Vasudeva, Varaha, Harihara and Narasimha. Cave3's primary theme is Vaishnavite, though it also shows Harihara on its southern wall half Vishnu and half Shiva shown fused as one, making the cave important to Shaivism studies.\n\nFacing north, Cave 3 is 60 steps from Cave2 at a higher level. Cave3's verandah is in length with an interior width of ; it has been sculpted deep into the mountain; an added square shrine at the end extends the cave further inside. The verandah itself is wide and has four free-standing, carved pillars separating it from the hall. The cave is high; it is supported by six pillars, each measuring . Each column and pilaster is carved with wide, deep bases crowned with capitals that are partly hidden by brackets on three sides. Each bracket, except for one, has carvings of human figures standing under foliage in different postures, of male and female mythological characters, and an attendant figure of a dwarf. A moulded cornice in the facia, with a dado of blocks below it (generally long), has about thirty compartments carved with two dwarves called \"ganas\".\nCave 3 also shows fresco paintings on the ceiling, some of which are faded and broken. These are among the earliest known surviving evidence of fresco painting in Indian art. The Hindu god Brahma is seen on Hamsa vahana in one of the murals. The wedding of Shiva and Parvati, attended by various Hindu deities is the theme of another.\n\nThere is a lotus medallion on the floor underneath the ceiling mural of Brahma. The ceiling has reliefs of many Vedic gods and goddesses such as Agni, Indra and Varuna. The cave artworks, in some cases, show the artists signatures, as well as a major inscription. This and other epigraphical evidence suggests that the cave temple was inaugurated on the \"full moon day, 1 November 578\". The roof of the verandah has seven panels created by cross beams; each is painted in circular compartments with images of deities including Shiva, Vishnu, Indra, Brahma and Kama, with smaller images of Dikpalas (cardinal guardians) at the corners.\nThe roof of the front aisle has panels with murals in the centre of male and female figurines flying in the clouds; the male figure is yaksha holding a sword and a shield. Decoration of lotus blooms are also seen on the panels. The roof of the hall is divided into nine panels slightly above the level of the ceiling. The central panel here depicts a deva mounted on a ramconjectured to be Agni. Images of Brahma and Varuna are also painted on the central panels; the floating figures are seen in the remaining panels.\n\nThe sculpture in Cave 3 is well preserved. Vishnu is presented in various avatars and forms, such as a standing Vishnu with eight arms; Vishnu seated on the hooded serpent Shesha on the eastern side of the veranda; Vishnu as standing Narasimha (man-lion avatar); Vishnu as Varaha (man-boar avatar) rescuing earth; Harihara (half Shiva, half Vishnu and their equivalence); and Trivikrama-Vamana avatars. The back wall has carvings of Vidhyadharas. The cave shows many \"Kama\" scenes in pillar brackets, where a woman and a man are in courtship or \"mithuna\" (erotic) embrace.\n\nAspects of the culture, cosmetics and clothing in the 6th century is visible in the art sculpted in this cave, showing a sophisticated tradition.\n\nLocated immediately next to and east of Cave3, Cave4 floor is situated about 10 feet lower and is the smallest of the four. It is dedicated to Tirthankaras, the revered figures of Jainism. It was constructed after the first three, sponsored by Hindu kings in later part of the 7th-century. Some scholars state this cave may have been created in the 8thcentury. Some embellishments were likely added in later centuries until about the 11th or 12th century.\n\nLike the other caves, Cave 4 features detailed carvings and a diverse range of motifs. The cave has a five-bayed entrance with four square columnseach with brackets and capitals. To the back of this verandah is a hall with two standalone and two joined pillars. The first aisle is a verandah long by wide, extending to deep. From the hall, steps lead to the sanctum sanctorum, which is wide extends to a depth of .\n\nInside the cave are major carvings of Bahubali, Parshvanatha and Mahavira with symbolic display of other Tirthankaras. Bahubali is standing in Kayotsarga meditating posture with vines wrapped around his leg, his classic iconography. Parshvanatha is shown with the five-headed cobra hood. Mahavira is represented sitting on a lion throne, whose identifying markers are not visibly and is identified by some scholars simply as a \"seated Jina\". This figure is flanked by bas-reliefs of attendants with \"chauri\" (fans), \"sardulas\" and makara's heads. Other carvings include Indrabhuti Gautama covered by four snakes, Brahmi and Sundari. In the sanctum is an image of Mahavira resting on a pedestal containing a 12th-century Kannada inscription marking the death of one Jakkave. Twenty four small Jaina Tirthankara images are engraved on the inner pillars and walls. In addition there are idols of Yakshas, Yakshis and Padmavati.\n\nThe artistic work, the icons to represents ideas and the motifs in Badami Cave 4, states Lisa Owens, resembles those of nearby Aihole Jain caves and much farther north Ellora Caves Jain caves in northern Maharashtra.\n\nOther than the numbered caves, Badami is home to many other cave monuments and medieval era temples. On the other side of the lake, near the Bhutanatha temple, is a 7th-8th century Chalukya period cave of small dimensions. Inside, there is a carved statue seated over a sculpted throne with reliefs showing people holding \"chauris\" (fans), a Pipal tree, elephants, and lions in an attacking pose. On one side of the statue is a chakra, on the other a conch shell. The statue wears abundant jewelry and a thread over its chest. The face of this statue is damaged and missing its face.\n\nThere are several theories as to who the statue represents. One theory holds that it is a relief of the Buddha in a sitting posture. According to this theory, those holding the \"chauris\" are Bodhisattvas flanking the Buddha. According to George Michell, the halo, the Pipal tree and cloak-like dress suggests that this was originally a Buddha statue. The shrine, states this theory, was converted to Hindu worship in recent times. According to B.V. Shettiarchaeologist and curator of Prince of Wales Museum of Western India, the cave was not converted but from the start represented a tribute to \"Mayamoha\" of the Hindu Puranas, or \"Buddhavatara Vishnu\" (ninth avatar of Vishnu). This theory is supported by the chakra, conch and jewelry included in its iconography. The style suggests it was likely carved in or before the 8thcentury.\n\nAnother theory found in colonial-era texts such as one by John Murraya missionary in British India and Jainism scholar, states the main image carved in Cave5 is that of a Jaina figure. According to a third theory, by Henry Cousens and A.Sundaraarchaeologists, and supported by local legends, the statue is of an ancient king; in a photograph of the statue taken before its face was damaged, the figure lacked the Ushnisha lump that typically goes with Buddha's image. The statue has several unusual, non-Buddha ornaments such as rings for fingers, a necklace and a chest-band; it wears a Hindu Yajnopavita thread and its head is stylistically closer to a Jina head than a Buddha head. These features suggest the statue may be of a king represented with features of various traditions. According to Carol Radcliffe BolonAssistant Curator at the Smithsonian Freer Gallery of Art, the date and identity of the main statue in Cave5 remains enigmatic.\nClose to the controversial cave are other monuments. One of them is a small shrine consisting of a 7th-century rock carving of Anantashayana Vishnu, or reclining Vishnu with Lakshmi and Garuda in namaste posture. Vishnu is shown restarting the cosmic cycle by giving birth to all of existence. Above the reclining carved relief are the ten avatars of Vishnu – Matsya, Kurma, Varaha, Narasimha, Vamana, Parashurama, Rama, Krishna, Buddha and Kalki. Between the Narasimha and Vamana is shown a relief of Brahma cord connected to Vishnu's navel. To the left of the relief is depicted the Trinity – Vishnu, Shiva and Brahma, while to the right is a human couple and a mother cow with a calf feeding.\n\nIn 2013, Manjunath SullolliAssistant Director of Bagalkot district working for the state government of Karnataka, reported the discovery of another cave with 27 rock carvings, about from the four main caves. Water gushes from this newly discovered cave year round. It depicts Vishnu and other Hindu deities, and features an inscription in the Devanagari script. The dating of these carvings is unknown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2267870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2267870", "title": "Bahá'í Esperanto-League", "text": "Bahá'í Esperanto-League\n\nThe Bahá'í Esperanto-League (BEL) is the official organization of Bahá'ís who are Esperantists. It was founded on 19 March 1973 with the approval of the Universal House of Justice.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith advocates the introduction of an international auxiliary language which, together with the mother tongue, would be taught in all the schools of the world (\"see Bahá'í Faith and auxiliary language\"). This is one of the prerequisites of Bahá'u'lláh for the unification of mankind, the establishment of lasting peace and the advancement of human culture.\n\nThus it is not surprising that the relationship of the Bahá'í community to the Esperanto movement has a long history. Esperanto was highly praised by 'Abdu'l-Bahá. From the time of its introduction until the present time, many Bahá'ís have learned the language and actively supported the Esperanto movement.\n\nBahá'u'lláh has left it to the governments of the world to decide upon the question of a common script and to choose the international language from among the existing national tongues or to create a new language specially for this purpose. For this reason Bahá'ís tend to place emphasis on the urgency of introducing such a language rather than giving direct support to Esperanto or to any other one language.\n\nBaha’u’llah himself in the Sixth Ishraq calls on the Universal House of Justice to decide the language question: “In former epistles We have enjoined upon Trustees of the House of Justice either to choose one language from among those now existing or to adopt a new one…” And, this institution itself in its letter of 8 June 1980 has expanded: “On the one hand this task is given to the governments of the world, on the other it is given to the House of Justice.” The selection question is probably ergo a process in at least two parts resting with – (1) the supreme governing body of the Baha’is of the world (Haifa) and (2) as stated on the last page of the Kitab-i-Aqdas with the parliaments of the world.\n\nAs Bahá’í texts etc. on this vast subject are many and deep and as they refer positively in various places to five tongues - Arabic, English, Esperanto, Persian and Spanish - one can easily accept why the very next sentence of that 1980 letter explains: “It is not possible now to see how this will come about…” What requires little intellectual discussion is how often and pleadingly ‘Abdu’l-Baha asked ‘every one of us to study Esperanto’ whether or not it becomes universal and how Shoghi Effendi interpreted all that as ‘repeated and emphatic admonitions of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’. The whole language question however is similar to what the essence of religion has ever been - a spiritual and mystical matter over and above any intellectual dimension. When this overarching Baha’i principle is systematically and widely consulted on this process will be better understood and disputes re the selection question avoided because whether English will remain dominant or whether Mandarin will become dominant are as ephemeral questions as which national language of the 19th century was dominant. Such puerile disputes will evaporate when the principle of a universal auxiliary language is properly discussed and understood.\n\nIn the 1920s and 30s certain notable Bahá'ís such as Martha Root, Lidia Zamenhof and Hermann Grossmann — the founder of the Bahá'í Esperanto magazine \"La Nova Tago\" — were active in the Esperanto movement. After the Second World War, the office of the Bahá'í International Community in Geneva was able to continue this activity, but only for a few years. In the 1950s and 60s the task was again taken over by individuals such as Adelbert Mühlschlegel and Roan Orloff-Stone. As a natural outcome of this, the Bahá'í Esperanto League was founded at the beginning of the 1970s, thus placing the activities of the Bahá'í Esperantists on a broader foundation.\n\nThere are signs that the idea of forming a collaboration of Bahá'í Esperantists was beginning to grow even at the beginning of the 1960s, particularly at the time immediately before the Esperanto World Congress in Budapest in 1966. Adelbert Mühlschlegel made efforts to bring this about but initially not very much was achieved. It was not until Paulo Amorim Cardoso accepted the faith in Brazil in 1971 that, with his help and that of Roan Orloff-Stone in the USA, the idea of a collaboration began, with surprising speed, to change into a viable project.\n\nIn a letter of July 1971 Cardoso, who at that time was secretary of the Local Spiritual Assembly of Fortaleza in Brazil, wrote, on behalf of that Assembly, that \"it is our intention to create an international Bahá'í Esperanto organisation\". With this letter he included a first draft of the constitution of the proposed organisation in which its main aims were defined, namely, the publication of Bahá'í literature in Esperanto, the dissemination of the Bahá'í Faith amongst the Esperantists and the promotion of Esperanto in the Bahá'í Community. He also enclosed with his letter a list (all together 18 names) of Bahá'í Esperantists in Brazil (8), India (1), Spain (1), Iran (1), Portugal (1) and the USA (6). It is very likely that Cardoso's letter was addressed to these 18 people. Also enclosed with his letter was another list, compiled by Roan Orloff-Stone, that contained the names and addresses in 13 different countries of 47 further persons, almost half of them being in the USA. In addition Cardoso began to produce and distribute a newsletter entitled \"Komuna Bahaa Letero\" (\"Communal Bahá'í Newsletter\"), which later grew into the official BEL Newsletter. It was then during the 57th Esperanto World Congress in Portland, Oregon (USA), that the nine participating Bahá'ís consulted together and decided to write to the Universal House of Justice to seek its approval for the founding of a Bahá'í Esperanto organisation. After consulting with \"Hand of the Cause of God\" Adelbert Mühlschlegel, who according to them was \"enthusiastic\" about this proposal, the Universal House of Justice gave their consent in a letter dated 19 March 1973 (18.19.129 BE), a date which effectively marks the birth of the Bahá'í Esperanto League. In issue No. 5 (April 1973) of \"Komuna Bahaa Letero\" the House of Justice's consent was announced to all the Bahá'í Esperantists who were known to the initiators of the project. Simultaneously, application forms for membership in the League were sent out, together with voting slips for the election of the League's first managing committee.\n\nThis election was conducted according to the same principles that are applied when a Local Spiritual Assembly is elected (each member voted for nine persons from the body of all members, without the nomination of any candidates). In a message from the League, dated 30 July 1973, the result of the election, in which a total of 30 members had taken part, was announced: Paulo Amorim Cardoso (Brazil), Roan Orloff-Stone (USA), Habib Taherzadeh (Israel/Bahá'í World Centre), Adelbert Mühlschlegel (Switzerland), Badiollah Samimy (Iran), Manuel de Freitas (Portugal), S.C. Gupta (India), Chagzin Kim (Korea), Leonora Stirling Armstrong (Brazil). The term of office of the governing committee was fixed at three years. In issue No. 9 (November 1973) of the \"Komuna Bahaa Letero\" it was announced that \"BEL now has 73 members in 14 countries: USA 27, Brazil 24, Canada 4, Iran 4, Spain 3, Italy 2, Portugal 2, Argentina 1, Austria 1, Germany 1, Israel 1, Korea 1, The Netherlands 1, Switzerland 1\". And in the following issue, No. 10 (January 1974), it was announced: \"Here are the names of the first managing committee of our dearly beloved Bahá'í Esperanto League: Chairman: Adelbert Mühlschlegel (Germany), Vice-chairman: Habib Taherzadeh (Israel), Secretary: Paulo Amorim Cardoso (Brazil), Vice-secretary: Roan Orloff-Stone (USA), Treasurer: Manuel de Freitas (Portugal), Vice-treasurer: Leonora Stirling-Armstrong (Brazil)\". It was also announced that, in accordance with an earlier decision, all those who had become members up to the time of the election of the first managing committee would automatically be regarded as the founding members of BEL; there were 80 such members in 17 different countries.\n\nApart from the task of gaining new members, one of the first activities of the League was the publication of basic Bahá'í information in Esperanto. The League also turned its attention to the question of Bahá'í terminology in Esperanto, for example the names of the 19 months of the Bahá'í Calendar (with issue No. 15 of the \"Komuna Bahaa Letero\", May 1975, a calendar was enclosed, in which the Bahá'í and Gregorian calendars were placed side by side). The League also applied to the World Esperanto Association (\"Universala Esperanto-Asocio\", UEA) for official recognition of BEL as a \"\"kunlaboranta faka asocio\" (a cooperating specialised subgroup) of UEA. BEL's application for this status was accepted at the World Esperanto Congress in the following year.\n\nIn spite of the successes they had, for the new League the first few years were not easy. Not only were the individual members widely scattered throughout the world, but the members of the managing committee as well. This geographical separation inhibited joint action so that most of the activities were carried out by individuals and were often initiated by the BEL secretary himself. The first secretary was Paulo Amorim Cardoso (Brazil). His work was augmented by Roan Orloff-Stone (USA), who made a significant contribution towards the development of the League and attended all the Esperanto World Congresses between 1976 and 1988. With such a driving force as this, supported by the efforts of a few other dedicated members, the Bahá'í Faith was well represented at each of these Congresses.\n\nIn 1976, John T. Dale took over the secretaryship of BEL. Like his predecessor, P.A. Cardoso, he did great deal in moulding the character of the League. He contributed numerous ideas towards the development of BEL and initiated a series of projects, many of which were concerned with the publication of new material. He also took on the task of editing the BEL Newsletter, to which he gave the new name \"BELmonda Letero\"\". The name may be translated as \"BEL World Letter\", but the Esperanto pun on the first word (\"belmonda\" means \"beautiful world\") is lost in translation.\n\nEven after the initial founding years, the League went on being handicapped by the problem of geographical separation; the managing committee itself was unable to make personal acquaintance with the majority of the BEL members. On top of all this, in 1979, contact with the Bahá'í Esperantists in Iran (there had been 16 on the election list of 1976) had to be broken off because, in the wake of the Islamic Revolution, correspondence with the West would have been dangerous for these members.\n\nOne of the main tasks to which John Dale, in his capacity as secretary, dedicated himself \"was to rectify the widespread misunderstanding on the part of Bahá'ís of the Esperanto language\". He found that the many of them favoured English as the future world language; others regarded Esperanto as the ideal candidate for this role but were not willing to learn it before a specific request to do so had come from the Universal House of Justice. \"To overcome such misunderstanding of and resistance towards the activities of BEL, I took upon myself the following tasks: (1) to compile quotations from the Bahá'í Writings about Esperanto and the language problem; ... (2) to collect Bahá'í-Esperanto documents and to translate various Bahá'í texts into Esperanto; ... (3) to produce and distribute information material and basic documents in English and Esperanto as an aid towards making BEL better known among both Bahá'ís and Esperantists.\"\n\nThe translation of John Esslemont's \"Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era\" — the most widely known introduction to the Bahá'í Faith — into Esperanto had been initiated by Martha Root and carried to completion by Lidia Zamenhof. The reissuing in 1978 of this translation, \"\"Bahá'u'lláh kaj la Nova Epoko\", after revision, additions and the inclusion of an appendix was certainly one of the greatest successes of this period.\n\nFurthermore in 1976, under the editorship of John Dale, BEL published the brochure \"Unueco kaj universala lingvo\" (Unity and Universal Language) in four languages (Portuguese, Spanish, Esperanto and the original English). This was followed in 1977 by the brochure \"Bahaaj Respondoj\" (Bahá'í Answers) and in 1981 by \"La Kaŝitaj Vortoj\" (The Hidden Words), one of the central Writings of Bahá'u'lláh. In 1979 Dale also sent a letter, enclosing a copy of the \"BELmonda Letero\"\", to all National Spritiual Assemblies in order to make the existence of BEL better known to seek the cooperation of the national Bahá'í communities. Dale also wrote to the Universal House of Justice, requesting it \"to consider ways and means of experimentally introducing Esperanto and encouraging the Bahá'ís to learn the language.\"\n\nA similar request had been made earlier by Cardoso. But again the attempt was in vain. The Universal House of Justice did not change its standpoint: although very much sympathising with the aims of the Bahá'í-Esperanto movement, it was opposed to the unofficial introduction of Esperanto (even if only temporary) into the Bahá'í Community, stressing that it was the principle of an international auxiliary language rather any one concrete proposal that Bahá'ís supported. At that time Cardoso had been so disappointed that all his efforts were bearing no fruit that he left the Faith a few years later.\n\nDuring the second half of the 1980s, the centre of activity began to shift away from the Americas to Western Europe, Germany in particular, and it was during this time the League began to prosper. One reason behind this was that amongst the Bahá'ís Esperanto had acquired the reputation of being an \"entrance ticket\" to countries behind the so-called Iron Curtain, countries to which the Bahá'í Faith had had no access during the preceding decades. In this connection, the Esperanto World Congress in Beijing in 1986, in which about a dozen BEL members from nearly as many different countries took part, and in the following the Centenary Congress in Warsaw in 1987, which was attended by an unprecedented number of Bahá'ís (about 50 from 20 different countries).\n\nIn addition to the nucleus of the League, Bahá'í-Esperanto committees or subsidiary groups in Germany, the USA, Great Britain and Switzerland (in 1993 Bulgaria joined them) were set up in the past and in part are still functioning today. Following the \"Internacia Junulara Kongreso\" (IJK, International Youth Congress) in Kraków, Poland, in 1987, the League was even able to found a youth section, known as JuBEL, which for several years afterwards was able to arrange that young Bahá'í Esperantists took part in the annual International Youth Congresses (IJK) and that Bahá'í items were included in the congress programmes.\n\nAt the end of the 1980s and the beginning of the 1990s BEL was also able to organise a series of several-day seminars on the Faith, the so-called \"BELaj Tagoj\" (BEL Days or \"Beautiful Days\"), three of which took place in Poland and one each in Bulgaria and the Slovak Republic. And in 1992, Roman Dobrzynski, a Polish journalist and the then Vice-President of the UEA (Universala Esperanto-Asocio: Universal Esperanto Association), presented, during the Esperanto World Congress in Vienna, the Esperanto version of his film on the Faith and the Bahá'í World Centre in Haifa, Israel, entitled \"Ŝafejo de la Naŭa Profeto\" (Sheepfold of the Ninth Prophet).\n\nProgress was also made in the publication of Bahá'í Esperanto literature; for example the two attractive brochures with colour printing: \"\"La Vojo al Paco\" (The Way to Peace) and \"La Bahaa Kredo\" (The Bahá'í Religion), as well as the very important publication entitled \"La Promeso de Monda Paco\"\" (The Promise of World Peace). In 1989 BEL made a significant contribution towards the publication of the well-known compilation by O.P. Ghai entitled \"Unueco en Diverseco\" (Unity in Diversity). And in 1992 BEL was also able to publish a small selection from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh entitled \"Perloj de l'Saĝo\" (Pearls of Wisdom).\n\nNot long after John T. Dale had tried to develop and more widely distribute the \"BELmonda Letero\", it shrank to a modest circular letter of 2 to 6 pages. It continues to function as the newsletter for all BEL members and is automatically distributed to them subscription-free. It contains membership information, important addresses, statements from the managing committee, news of activities in different countries and extracts from the Bahá'í Writings. It has become an important instrument of communication within the worldwide BEL community.\n\nThe membership of BEL increased over the years to more than 400, but an evaluation of the membership figures at the beginning of the 1990s showed that it had dropped to about half this number. As of 2005, BEL had 410 members in 64 countries. Most of the BEL members at that time were to be found in Bulgaria (59), Germany (56), the USA (45), Russia (35) and Great Britain (21). Right from the beginning, no membership charges were collected and, except for some donations from single National Spiritual Assemblies and other Bahá'í sources, the activities of the League were financed by voluntary contributions from its members.\n\nIn the last few years, BEL has concentrated on active participation in the Esperanto World Congresses, on the occasional publication of Bahá'í articles in Esperanto magazines, and on the translation of important Bahá'í documents: some in their entirety such as \"La Promeso de Monda Paco\" (The Promise of World Peace) in 1996, \"Bahá'u'lláh\" in 1992; others in the form of summaries such as in 1996 \"\"La prospero de la homaro\" (The Prosperity of Mankind) and \"Turnopunkto por Ĉiuj Nacioj\" (Turning Point for All Nations).\n\nFrom time to time, BEL also tries to inform the Bahá'í world community about the Esperanto language and the Esperanto movement.\n\nTo celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding of the League, a brochure of about 60 pages was published, with the title \"Bahaismo kaj Esperanto. Festlibro okaze de la dudekkvinjariĝo de la Bahaa Esperanto-Ligo\"\" (Bahaism and Esperanto. Commemorative Volume for the Twenty-fifth Anniversary of the Bahá'í Esperanto League). In this brochure, BEL looks back on a long history of the relationship and the cooperation between Bahá'ís and Esperantists. The congratulatory openings by the Presidents of the Universal Esperanto Association (UEA) and of BEL itself are followed by Bernhard Westerhoff's essay on the changing, and not always completely harmonious, relationship between the Bahá'ís and the Esperantists. This is followed by two essays by and about Lidia Zamenhof, which show how the youngest daughter of Zamenhof found her spiritual home in the Bahá'í Religion. Several central Bahá'í texts on both the question of the international language generally and Esperanto in particular — including a recent recommendation from the Bahá'ís that the UNO should adopt an international language — are used to illustrate the Bahá'í point of view on this subject. A lengthy essay casts light on the historical growth of the relationship between Bahá'ís and Esperantists, presents biographical sketches of prominent Bahá'í Esperantists and describes the development of BEL. Finally an introduction to the Bahá'í Faith and an overview of Bahá'í literature in Esperanto rounds off this 60-page booklet.\n\nOne important BEL project, initiated by John Dale, is the publication of a compilation of texts, taken from the Bahá'í Writings and other sources, concerning the principle an international auxiliary language and the merits of Arabic, Persian and English as possible candidates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19196200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19196200", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Nepal", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Nepal\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Nepal begins after a Nepalese leader encountered the religion in his travels before World War II. Following World War II, the first known Bahá'í to entire Nepal was about 1952 in the person N. P. Sinha who moved to Birganj and the first Nepalese Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly elected in 1959, and its National Assembly in 1972. For a period of time, between 1976 and 1981, all assemblies were dissolved due to legal restrictions. The 2001 census reported 1211 Bahá'ís, and since the 1990s the Bahá'í community of Nepal has been involved in a number of interfaith organizations including the Inter-religious Council of Nepal promoting peace in the country. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 4300 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\nIn the 1920-1940 period Col. Raja Jai Prithvi Bahadur Singh, Raja Of Bajang, traveled to Europe and the Americas and heard of the Bahá'í Faith through contact with individuals like Lady Blomfield.\n\nThe first known entry of members of the Bahá'í Faith to Nepal was about 1952 by N. P. Sinha, an Indian Bahá'í, to Birganj soon followed by Kedarnath Pradhan who was from Sikkim before moving to Kathmandu along with his family. News of the religion also arrived following a United Nations conference in Colombo at which Nepalese delegates expressed interest in the religion. Following conversions and further pioneers the first Local Spiritual Assembly in Nepal was that of Kathmandu city which was elected in 1959. In 1960 there were assemblies in Kathmandu, Dohlka Shahr, and Bhaktapur and smaller groups of Bahá'ís in Dharan, Baklong, Pokhara, and Biratnagar; and over one hundred members of the religion.\n\nBy 1963 the local assemblies of Nepal included: Bhaktapur, Biratnagar, Dharan, Kathmandu, and Pokhara, with small groups of Bahá'ís in Bodegaon, Dabeha, Nalar, and Dolkhashahr. Isolated Bahá'ís were in Bakloong, Damdame, Rakhughati, and Rakheshwav and Hand of the Cause John Esslemont's \"Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era\" was translated into Nepalese. Perhaps the first Hand of the Cause to visit Nepal was Rúhíyyih Khanum in 1964. In 1967 ambassador Ram Prasad Manandhar visited the Bahá'í House of Worship in Wilmette, USA. In 1969 Hand of the Cause Adelbert Mühlschlegel visited a number of central Asian countries including Nepal at the request of the Universal House of Justice. In August 1971 youth from Nepal were among the attendees at a western Asian Bahá'í youth conference in India.\n\nWith Hand of the Cause Ali-Akbar Furutan representing the Universal House of Justice, the Bahá'ís of Nepal held their first national convention to elect their National Spiritual Assembly in 1972 during the reign of King Mahendra. The convention had forty delegates. The members of the first national assembly were: Amar Pradhan, Shyam Maherjan, Jujubhai Sakya, Aranda Lal Shrestha, Dinesh Verma, Keith de Folo, W. F. Chaittonalla, P. N. Rai, D. K. Malla - from Buddhist, Hindu, Christian backgrounds. In November 1972 delegates from the local assemblies of the Narayani Zone gathered for a local conference on the progress of the religion to study Bahá'í history, Bahá'í administration in general and specifically electing local assemblies, and Bahá'í teachings.\n\nThe national and local assemblies were all dissolved between 1976 and 1981 due to legal restrictions. However Bahá'ís from Nepal were able to attend the October 1977 Asian Bahá'í Women's Conference with Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum after which she toured in Nepal including addressing some 700 students at the Padma Kanya Women's College (see Education in Nepal.) In May 1981 45 Nepalese Bahá'ís from various localities attended a conference at the national center in Kathmandu. A highlight of the weekend conference was the first showing in Nepal of the film \"The Green Light Expedition\" about Rúhíyyih Khanum's trip up the Amazon River. The local and national assemblies were reelected in and since 1982 - this dissolution and reformation was during the reign of King Birendra. When the national convention gathered there were 25 delegates. In 1983 there is comment that a distinguishing effect of pioneers was that they \"not only took an interest in our troubles, they also looked on conditions in Nepal as their own and talked about our problems as their problems.\" Hand of the Cause Collis Featherstone attended the 1983 national convention. In 1984 the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Nepal printed \"Selected Writings on Baha'i Administration\" in parallel English and Nepali scripts. Later in 1984 Nepalese Bahá'ís attended the conference at the almost completed Lotus Temple. By 1985 the Bahá'ís assembly of Malangwa has established a school that has about 30 students, several of whom receive scholarships. Low and high caste children eat and drink together, and the villagers have accepted that Bahá'í schools do not observe customs concerning caste. In 1988 the national assembly had expanded and improved its adult literacy program. In 1989 representatives of the national Assemblies of Nepal along with the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Bangladesh, India, Sikkim and Sri Lanka along with Continental Counselors and members of sub-regional councils in India met in Pune, India to discuss creating a unified vision of the religion and its progress across the sub-continent.\n\nOn 29 September 1990 Hand of the Cause Collis Featherstone died and is buried in Kathmandu.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. Since the early 1990s the Bahá'ís of Nepal have involved themselves in diverse concerns in Nepal.\n\nOne group of Bahá'ís set up an organization \"Education, Curriculum, and Training Associates\", or \"ECTA\", which means \"unity\" in Nepali, in 1997 to promote rural development strategies and programs that can be done at low cost by village groups without extensive outside aid. Nepalese Bahá'ís joined the Inter-religious Council of Nepal promoting peace in the country who have also met with CPN Maoist leadership and consulted on AIDS issues.\n\nA \"Sacred Gifts for a Living Planet\" conference in Nepal in November 2000 was organized by the Alliance of Religions and Conservation and the World Wide Fund for Nature included Bahá'ís.\n\nThe Club of Budapest offered a \"Change the World -- Best Practice Award\" given to four international educational projects that aim at empowering people through learning and enabling them to take full control of their economic development. Marcia Odell was one of the awardees, representing the Women's Empowerment Program (WEP) in Nepal, which has developed an approach to microfinance and the empowerment of women. The WEP program has reached more than 130,000 women in Nepal and has also received considerable support from the Bahá'í community of Nepal.\n\nIn December 2003 a conference entitled \"Education: The Right of Every Girl and Boy,\" brought together representatives of five South Asian countries by government officials and members of the Bahá'í communities: Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka and was co-sponsored and supported by: the Bahá'í International Community, UNESCO, World Vision India, National Foundation for India, Save the Children UK, Commonwealth Education Fund, and India Alliance for Child Rights.\n\nIn 2006 Bahá'ís participated in an international youth conference organized by Hindu Vidyapeeth Nepal. It was set as a peace conference with the theme of 'Deepening our Spirituality' in Kathmandu.\n\nThough it is illegal to convert others, occasional reports of police harassment, and reports of discrimination based on religious belief or practice by 2001 the national census reported 1211 Bahá'ís (but includes children down to 0–4 years old—indeed the largest segment of population was 10–14 years old.) There were more women than men, and of the 5 Divisions more Bahá'ís lived in the Eastern Division and the least in the Western one. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 4350 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2977929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2977929", "title": "Bazigar", "text": "Bazigar\n\nBazigar are the descendants of Bhai Lehna Ji (also known as the second guru of Sikhs Shri Guru Angad Dev Ji). This tribe generally follows Sikhism. Bazigar is a concentrated community so it is declared as Scheduled Castes in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. They speak the Bazigar language, which belongs to the Dravidian family.\n\nThe name Bazigar is derived from the Urdu word \"bazi\", which means an acrobat. They themselves claim to be the Descendants of Bhai Lehna Ji (Also known as Second Guru of Sikhism Shri Guru Angad Dev Ji) who took to the occupation of acrobatics and Music. They have now been granted Scheduled Caste status in Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh because it is a Concentrated community. At some places in India, Bazigars speak their own dialect, which is Dravidian, while speaking in Hindi or Punjabi with outsiders. In Haryana, they are founded mainly in the districts of Yamuna Nagar, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Rohtak, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Karnal while in Punjab, India they can be founded in Doaba, Majha, and Malwa regions mainly in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, and Jalandhar districts. Major Bazigar clans in Haryana and Punjab includes the Binjhrawat, Baljot, Bartiya (Lalka), Dharamsot, Muchhaal (Gutteka, Gurdaseka, Lashiaka, Mastaneka etc) and Namsot.\n\nIn all these clans, Baljot were treated as their leaders and Bartiya as the advisors of them. But they all lived together and was famous for their unity during the bad times of each other. \n\nIn terms of Religion, major part of Baazigar community claims to be the Hindu , but basically they are the Descendants of Shri Guru Angad Dev Ji. They belongs to Sikhism. The occupation of the Male was performing Acrobatics, wrestling and Agriculture.\n\nBut with the growth of the world, these things are dissapearing as this community is also marked theirselves as Modern in the modern world. Now they are almost in all countries of the world and giving their services in almost every field.\n\nThe Bazigar community is further divided into Six Gotras, the Dharamsot, Muchhaal, Baljot (Rupana), Bartiya (Lalka), Binjhrawat and Namsot. Historically, the Bazigar were either Sikh or Hindu but with the departure of their Muslim patrons, the Bazigar have embraced Sikhism. They have also abandoned their traditional dialect to Communicate during the Wars while fighting with the Mughals.\n\nIt is still a confusion weather Bazigars are Sikh or Hindu because there is no written evidence, but the major part believes in Sikhism as they perform their all functions according to Sikhism and follow Guru Granth Sahib Ji. \n\nWadali Brothers ( Ustad Puran Chand Wadali ji and Ustad Pyare Lal Wadali ji ) are the pride of Bazigar Community. Their son Lakhwinder Wadali is also a famous Indian Singer.\n\nIn Politics, S. Sadhu Singh Dharamsot is presenting Bazigar community from a long time.\n"}
{"id": "28960916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28960916", "title": "Bhambi Sindhi Mochi", "text": "Bhambi Sindhi Mochi\n\nThe Bhambi Sindhi Mochi are a Hindu caste found in the state of Gujarat in India. They are also known as Sindhi Mochi. The Bhambi Sindhi Mochi are sub-group within the Bhambi community.\n\nThe community is said to have originated from Sindh, from where they migrated to Gujarat. In most Indian languages, the word mochi means a cobbler, and they were the traditional cobblers of Gujarat. They are now found mainly in Ahmadabad, and Kheda districts. The Bhambhi now speak Gujarat.\n\nThe Sindhi Mochi are an endogamous community and practice clan exogamy. Their main clans are the Parmar, Solanki, Baghela, Rathore, Gohil and Chauhan. All these are also well known Rajput clans.\n\nThe majority of Sindhi Mochi are still employed as shoemakers. A majority are now employed as wage labourers. They are a Hindu community, and their tribal deity is Chamunda.\n\n"}
{"id": "58372585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58372585", "title": "Common attributes", "text": "Common attributes\n\nCommon Attributes is a technical term in Jainism. As per Jain Cosmology, Universe is made up of Principles or Substances that are infinite in number but six by categories. All Principles or Substances have Attributes that pervade in the entire Principle. In other words, Attributes have exactly same extent(volume) as the Substance. In addition to occupying same space as the Substance, Attributes stay in the Substance at all the time without any exception. \"Common Attributes\" are those attributes that are common among all the six categories of Principles.\n\nPresence of \"Common Attributes\" doesn't mean all individual Substances somehow lose their individual identities and acquire one singular identity. Each individual substance continues to maintain its individual identity. Identity of common attribute is identical with the identity of the substance in which it resides.\n\nThere are infinite number of \"Common Attributes\", but following six are important ones:\n\n"}
{"id": "4173085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4173085", "title": "Complementarianism", "text": "Complementarianism\n\nComplementarianism is a theological view held by some in Christianity, Judaism, and Islam, that men and women have different but \"complementary\" roles and responsibilities in marriage, family life, religious leadership, and elsewhere. The word \"complementary\" and its cognates are currently used to denote this view. For some Christians whose complementarian view is biblically-prescribed, these separate roles preclude women from specific functions of ministry within the community. Though women may be precluded from certain roles and ministries they are held to be equal in moral value and of equal status. The phrase used to describe this is 'Ontologically equal, Functionally different'.\n\nComplementarians assign primary \"headship\" roles to men and \"support\" roles to women—based on their interpretation of certain biblical passages. One of the precepts of complementarianism is that while women may assist in the decision-making process, the ultimate authority for the decision is the purview of the male in marriage, courtship, and in the polity of churches subscribing to this view.\n\nThe main contrasting viewpoints are egalitarianism which maintains positions of authority and responsibility in marriage, religion, business, and elsewhere should be equally available to females as well as males, and 'male chauvinism', a generalized bias that in most situations men are of significantly greater value than women.\n\nComplementarianism holds that \"God has created men and women equal in their essential dignity and human personhood, but different and complementary in function with male headship in the home and in the Church.\" Proponents of complementarianism generally see the Bible as the infallible word of God.\n\nThe complementarian position claims to uphold what has been the most traditional teaching on gender roles in the church. However, the terms \"traditionalist\" or \"hierarchicalist\" are usually avoided by complementarians, as the former “implies an unwillingness to let Scripture challenge traditional patterns of behavior”, while the latter “overemphasizes structured authority while giving no suggestion of equality or the beauty of mutual interdependence”. Therefore, they prefer the term complementarian, “since it suggests both equality and beneficial differences”.\n\nWhile not doctrine by name, many Catholics are advocates of complementarianism with regard to the social doctrine of the Church. The Catechism of the Catholic Church asserts that \"God gives man and woman an equal personal dignity\" but also that the harmony of society \"depends in part on the way in which the complementarity, needs, and mutual support between the sexes are lived out.\"\n\nIn contrast with adherents of Biblical patriarchy, some complementarians are open to the possibility of women assuming leadership roles in civic and commercial life.\n\nThe complementarian view of marriage asserts gender-based roles in marriage. A husband is considered to have the God-given responsibility to provide for, protect, and lead his family. A wife is to collaborate with her husband, respect him, and serve as his helper in managing the household and nurturing the next generation. Complementarians assert that the Bible instructs husbands to lead their families as Head of Household, and to love their wives as Christ loves the Church. They cite the Bible as instructing wives to respect their husbands’ leadership out of reverence for Christ. The husband is also meant to hold moral accountability for his wife and to exhibit a sacrificial love for her. The wife is meant to respond to her husband's love for her with love in-kind and by receiving his service and leadership willingly.\n\nAn example of the complementarian view of marriage can be found in the Southern Baptist Convention's \"Baptist Faith and Message (2000)\", an excerpt from which is quoted here:\n\nThe Council on Biblical Manhood and Womanhood teaches that \"Christ is the supreme authority and guide for men and women, so that no earthly submission—domestic, religious, or civil—ever implies a mandate to follow a human authority into sin.\"\n\nThe expression \"Sponsa Christi\" is sometimes used by complementarian denominations such as the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod. They maintain that the apostle Paul advocated such views in the New Testament. Accordingly, the Christ symbolizes the bridegroom, while the Church \"(Ecclesia)\" represents the bride.\n\nBased on their interpretation of certain scriptures complementarians view women's roles in ministry, particularly in church settings, as limited. The complementarian view holds that women should not hold church leadership roles that involve teaching or authority over men.\nFor instance, Frank Page, a former president of the Southern Baptist Convention, has written that \"...while both men and women are gifted for service in the church, the office of Pastor is limited to men as qualified by Scripture.\" According to complementarianism, women are not completely forbidden from speaking within a church since Paul speaks about women prophesying inside the church.\n\nThe Council on Biblical Manhood and Womanhood holds that “[i]n the church, redemption in Christ gives men and women an equal share in the blessings of salvation. Nevertheless, they strongly believe that certain governing and teaching roles within the church are restricted to men (; ; ).” Most complementarians believe that women should not be ordained as a pastor or as an evangelist, while a few believe that it is acceptable for women to be evangelists but not pastors. This would not support placing women in leadership roles in the church or family that would imply or provide any authority over men. Which other specific ministry roles are open to women varies among complementarians.\n\nIn his article \"Women Preachers, Divorce, and a Gay Bishop–What’s the Link?\", Southern Baptist theologian and seminary president Albert Mohler asserts that \"The arguments used in support of the ordination of women require the dismissal or 'reinterpretation' of specific biblical texts which disallow women in the teaching office\". He believes the same is true of arguments for the ordination of divorced persons and for homosexuals.\n\nSome traditionally Catholic countries have been called matriarchal because of the high value that was placed on women. Numerous women have been beatified and who are venerated among the saints. However, the Catholic Church restricts ordination to men, since \"The Lord Jesus chose men (\"viri\") to form the college of the twelve apostles, and the apostles did the same when they chose collaborators to succeed them in their ministry\".\n\nChristian denominations that support complementarianism include many conservative Protestant denominations (as well as many non-denominational Protestant churches), the Roman Catholic Church, and the Eastern Orthodox churches. These groups of churches that support forms of this position specifically include the Southern Baptist Convention, Eastern Orthodox Church, Presbyterian Church in America, Anglican Diocese of Sydney, Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod, Catholic Church, Primitive Methodist Church, Conservative Mennonites, Newfrontiers, Jehovah's Witnesses, Evangelical Free Church of America, Christian and Missionary Alliance, Sovereign Grace Ministries, and the Calvary Chapel movement.\n\nParachurch organizations that have been described as complementarian include Focus on the Family, Cru, and Promise Keepers. Focus on the Family and the Promise Keepers do not take a position on women in the church, but both believe in male headship in the family. Campus Crusade for Christ \"has not taken any role of women in ministry\", though its FamilyLife organization directed by Dennis Rainey sponsors \"Weekend to Remember\" marriage conferences which reportedly teach male headship.\n\nNoted supporters of the complementarian position include J.I. Packer, Wayne Grudem, Albert Mohler, Mark Dever, C. J. Mahaney, Adrian Rogers, Richard Land, Ligon Duncan, Gerald Bray, Terry Virgo, John Wimber, Tim Keller, John F. MacArthur, C.S. Lewis, John Piper, Jack Cottrell, and Elisabeth Elliot.\n\nThe Council on Biblical Manhood and Womanhood (CBMW) is the primary evangelical Christian organization that exists to promote the complementarian view of gender issues. CBMW's current president is Denny Burk who is also a professor of Biblical Studies at Boyce Bible College, the undergraduate wing of The Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. The CBMW published a semi-annual academic journal called the \"Journal for Biblical Manhood & Womanhood\".\n\n\"New feminism\" is a predominantly Catholic philosophy which emphasizes a belief in an integral complementarity of men and women, rather than the superiority of men over women or women over men.\n\n\"Difference feminism\" is a philosophy that stresses that men and women are ontologically different versions of the human being. Many Catholics adhere to and have written on the philosophy, though the philosophy is not specifically Catholic.\n\nAccording to Christians for Biblical Equality (CBE), an organization that adopts a Christian egalitarian approach, complementarianism \"sidesteps the question at issue, which is not whether there are beneficial differences between men and women, but whether these differences warrant the inequitable roles, rights, and opportunities prescribed by advocates of gender hierarchy.\" CBE prefaces their criticism with acknowledgement of some positions they share in common with complementarians: a mutual love for and commitment to Jesus Christ, a commitment to justice as a biblical ideal, a devotion to Scripture as being God-inspired, and a desire to see the world embrace the gospel of Christ. They are divided by worldviews that CBE sees as reflecting the moral teachings of God and their purposes in this world. CBE maintains that these differing views have \"enormous consequences\". The writer, CBE's President Mimi Haddad, finds that Christians are now divided over patriarchy as they once were over slavery. She characterizes those as different views of the nature, purpose, and value of humanity, all based on gender.\n\nHaddad asks the rhetorical question: \"If male authority is part of God’s design, we would expect to see society flourish where patriarchy holds sway. Is this the case?\" The author replies:\nSome Traditional Christians do not accept this premise as it focuses on a sociological over a theological category, thus denouncing the egalitarian position as idolatry. Instead they believe it is not hegemony that causes God's wrath but sinfulness which is no less present among women than men. Further, they would re-emphasize ontological equality and functional difference, not patriarchy, as the foundational difference between complementarian and egalitarian views.\n\nDifferentiation of women's roles on the basis of religious beliefs are not unique to Christianity or Western culture.\n\nDifferent movements in Judaism have adopted differing views in gender relations. The Lubavitcher Rebbe stated, \"In the Divine plan for creation, men and women have distinct, diverse missions. These missions complement each other, and together bring the Divine plan to harmonious fruition. The role of one is neither higher nor lower than the role of the other: they are simply different.\" Contrasting this, the Reform Jewish movement is entirely egalitarian, both in services and in daily life. In North America, the Conservative movement is likewise predominantly egalitarian. Although egalitarianism has been adopted in services and life by some of Orthodox Jewry, complementarianism continues to be more prevalent in Orthodox communities.\n\nWithin Islam, \"a tension exists between the egalitarian view that believers are judged on the basis of merit and the inegalitarian view that women and men should fulfill distinct, complementary roles in the family and society\".\n\nThe Baha'i Faith, proclaims that equality is not to deny that differences in function between women and men exist but rather to affirm the complementary roles men and women fulfill in the home and society at large. \"“The world of humanity is possessed of two wings: the male and the female. So long as these two wings are not equivalent in strength, the bird will not fly. Until womankind reaches the same degree as man, until she enjoys the same arena of activity, extraordinary attainment for humanity will not be realized; humanity cannot wing its way to heights of real attainment. When the two wings . . . become equivalent in strength, enjoying the same prerogatives, the flight of man will be exceedingly lofty and extraordinary.”.\n\n\nRelated secular:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "292266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292266", "title": "Edwina Currie", "text": "Edwina Currie\n\nEdwina Currie (\"née\" Cohen; born 13 October 1946) is a British former politician, serving as Conservative Party Member of Parliament from 1983 until 1997. She was a Junior Health Minister for two years, resigning in 1988 during the salmonella in eggs controversy.\n\nBy the time Currie lost her seat as an MP in 1997, she had begun a new career as a novelist and broadcaster. She is the author of six novels, and has also written four works of non fiction. In September 2002, publication of Currie's \"Diaries (1987–92)\" caused a sensation, as they revealed a four-year affair with colleague (and later Prime Minister) John Major between 1984 and 1988.\n\nCurrie was born in south Liverpool to an Orthodox Jewish family, who \"disowned her when she married a non-Jewish accountant.\" She is however not particularly religious, stating in an February 2000 interview that she found \"religious mumbo jumbo hard to swallow in any faith.\" She went to the Liverpool Institute High School for Girls in Blackburne House, in the Canning area of Liverpool, where she was deputy Head Girl.\n\nCurrie studied Philosophy, Politics and Economics at St Anne's College, Oxford, where she was taught by Gabriele Taylor. She lived next door to Mary Archer, Ann Widdecombe, and Gyles Brandreth's wife Michèle Brown. Subsequently, she gained an MA in economic history from the London School of Economics.\n\nFrom 1975 until 1986, she was a Birmingham City Councillor for Northfield. In 1983, she stood for parliament as a Conservative Party candidate, and was elected as the member for South Derbyshire. Frequently outspoken, she was described as \"a virtually permanent fixture on the nation's TV screen saying something outrageous about just about anything\" and \"the most outspoken and sexually interested woman of her political generation.\"\n\nIn September 1986, she became a Junior Health Minister. Among her comments over the next two years were—despite her not being religious—that \"good Christian people\" don't get AIDS, that old people who couldn't afford their heating bills should wrap up warm in winter and that northerners die of \"ignorance and chips\".\n\nIn 1988, Currie appointed television personality Jimmy Savile to head up a task force to run the Broadmoor psychiatric hospital. Savile was given extraordinary power and a set of keys with complete access to every part of the hospital. He mingled repeatedly with the 800 or so patients, many teenage girls, some severely disturbed and medicated.\n\nCurrie was forced to resign in December 1988, after she issued a warning about salmonella in British eggs. The statement that \"most of the egg production in this country, sadly, is now affected with salmonella\" sparked outrage among farmers and egg producers, and caused egg sales in the country to decline rapidly, by 60 percent. The controversy gained her the nickname \"Eggwina\".\n\nThe loss of revenue led to the slaughter of four million hens. Although the statement was widely interpreted as referring to \"most eggs produced\", in fact it related to the egg production \"flock\"; there was indeed evidence that a mid-1980s regulation change had allowed salmonella to get a hold in flocks. However, Currie failed to clarify this distinction.\n\nThere was particular anger in Northern Ireland where egg production is a significant part of the economy. At the Christmas party of the Industrial Development Board for Northern Ireland that year the featured dish was curried eggs. To make amends, in 1990, she began the National Egg Awareness Campaign.\n\nLong after the furore died down, in 2001, it was revealed that a covered-up Whitehall report produced months after Currie's resignation found that there had been a \"salmonella epidemic of considerable proportions.\"\n\nIn 1991, Currie became the first Conservative MP to appear on the BBC topical panel show \"Have I Got News for You\". She appeared again two years later, in a special episode commemorating the release of Margaret Thatcher's memoirs, opposite fellow Liverpudlian (and Liverpool Institute alumnus) Derek Hatton.\n\nDuring the 1992 General Election campaign, Currie poured a glass of orange juice over Labour's Peter Snape shortly after an edition of the Midlands based television debate show \"Central Weekend\" had finished airing. Speaking about the incident later, Currie said \"I just looked at my orange juice, and looked at this man from which this stream of abuse was emanating, and thought 'I know how to shut you up.'\"\n\nAfter the 1992 General Election, she declined a request from Prime Minister John Major to take up a position as Minister of State for the Home Office.\n\nIn February 1994, she tabled an amendment to the Criminal Justice and Public Order Bill to lower the age of consent for homosexual sexual acts to 16. This amendment was defeated by 307 votes to 280, although a subsequent amendment resulted in the reduction of the homosexual age of consent from 21 to 18; final equalisation was achieved in 2000. That same month, Currie voted against the death penalty for murder, having previously voted in favour of it in 1983.\n\nIn June 1994, she contested the European Parliament seat of Bedfordshire and Milton Keynes, but lost the seat to Labour's Eryl McNally by 94,837 votes to 61,628 votes. After fourteen years as a member of the House of Commons, Currie lost her parliamentary seat of South Derbyshire in the 1997 General Election. She attempted to be selected as a Conservative candidate for the European Parliament election of 1999, but was unsuccessful.\n\nCurrie is the author of six novels: \"A Parliamentary Affair\" (1994), \"A Woman's Place\" (1996) \"She's Leaving Home\" (1997), \"The Ambassador\" (1999), \"Chasing Men\" (2000) and \"This Honourable House\" (2001). She has also written four works of non-fiction: \"Life Lines\" (1989), \"What Women Want\" (1990), \"Three Line Quips\" (1992) and \"Diaries 1987–92\" (2002). She remains an outspoken public figure, with a reputation for being \"highly opinionated,\" and currently earns her living as an author and media personality.\n\nFrom the time she lost her seat in 1997, Currie has maintained a presence in the media. From 1998 to 2003, she hosted a late evening talk show on BBC Radio Five Live, \"Late Night Currie\". In 2002, she moved to HTV, presenting the television programme \"Currie Night\" until 2003. Since then, she has appeared in a string of reality television programmes, such as \"Wife Swap\" in which she and her second husband John swapped places with John McCririck and his wife, Jenny. Currie appeared on a charity edition of the television quiz show \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?\" on 17 September 2005, partnering Conservative speech-writer and lobbyist Derek Laud. She has also appeared in the reality cooking show \"Hell's Kitchen\" with celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay, and \"Celebrity Stars in Their Eyes\", both in 2006.\n\nCurrie was interviewed about the rise of Thatcherism for the 2006 BBC TV documentary series \"Tory! Tory! Tory!\" She won \"Celebrity Mastermind\" on 23 June 2004, specialising in the life of Marie Curie. She also won \"All Star Family Fortunes\" on 3 January 2009. She appeared in Channel 4's \"Come Dine with Me\" in February 2009 where she finished third. She made a second appearance on the show during Channel 4's \"Alternative Election Night\" coverage, with Rod Liddle, Brian Paddick and Derek Hatton as her competitors. She also appeared in James May's Show \"James May's Toy Stories\" where she helped him build a bridge made entirely out of Meccano in Liverpool.\n\nIn September 2011, Currie took part in the ninth series of \"Strictly Come Dancing\". She was paired with professional dancer Vincent Simone. On 9 October, she and Simone were the first couple to be eliminated from the competition.\n\nIn November 2014, Currie took part in the fourteenth series of \"I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!\" entering the jungle on Day 5 of the competition, and finishing in fourth place.\n\nOn 1 July 1972, Currie married accountant Ray Currie in Barnstaple, Devon; they had two children and divorced in 1997. During this marriage Edwina Currie had a four-year affair with John Major, later Prime Minister, which she revealed in September 2002. Edwina and Ray were the subject of an edition of the BBC's \"The Other Half\" documentary series, broadcast in March 1984.\n\nOn 24 May 2001, in Southwark, Currie married retired detective John Jones, whom she had met when he was a guest on her radio programme in 1999. Currie lives in Whaley Bridge, Derbyshire.\n\nCurrie's \"Diaries (1987–92)\", published in 2002, caused a sensation, as they revealed a four-year affair with John Major between 1984 and 1988, while both were married to other people. The affair started while she was a backbencher and Major was the government whip in Margaret Thatcher's government. After Major's promotion to Chief Secretary to the Treasury, the relationship ended, but the two remained friends. Currie apparently ceased the affair when it became dangerous and impractical owing to the presence of bodyguards who had to be avoided.\n\nAfter publication, Major made a statement saying that he was ashamed of the affair and had privately revealed the matter to his wife. Currie said she had been in love with him for years after the end of the affair, and that he had been \"the love of her life\". However, only weeks after revealing the affair, she publicly criticised Major, accusing him of sexism and racism and of being \"one of the less competent prime ministers\".\n\nWhile having an affair with Major in October 1985, Currie said about Sara Keays, \"I feel very sorry for Cecil and his family. Most of my thoughts on Sara Keays are unprintable. Perhaps the most polite thing to say is she's a right cow.\"\n\nThe admission came after years of denial of any affair while in office and a successful libel action against playwright David Hare, who had said a sexually voracious murderer played by Charlotte Rampling in his film \"Paris by Night\" (1988) was an \"Edwina Currie-like\" figure. Currie had also produced several novels with explicitly erotic content – and political background – such as \"A Parliamentary Affair\". Following publication of her diaries, Express Newspapers lawyers re-examined documents in a libel case to see if there was anything in the diaries which would allow them to reopen the case and recoup damages. In March 2000, Currie had been awarded £30,000 against them following a 1997 article entitled \"How Edwina is now the vilest lady in Britain.\"\n\nIn September 2004, Currie took part in a sponsored cycle ride across Poland, near to the area where ancestors of hers lived, for Marie Curie Cancer Care.\n\nIn June 2005, in her role as a patron of the British Heart Foundation, Currie championed a campaign to raise awareness of the effect of heart disease on women. In May 2007, the patient charity MRSA Action UK announced Currie as their patron.\nEdwina Currie was quoted by the media championing the campaign against hospital superbugs.\n\nIn October 2011, Currie took part in EuroVoice, an event supported by the European Youth Parliament. In November 2011, Currie accepted the position of President of the Tideswell Male Voice Choir.\n\nIn February 2013, Currie participated in an Oxford Union debate, saying she opposed feminism.\n\nAs part of the 2009 TV Show \"Ant & Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway\", Currie teamed up with Declan Donnelly and two other celebrities to release a cover version of the Wham! hit song \"Wake Me Up Before You Go Go.\" Her daughter, Debbie, had previously released a single.\n\n"}
{"id": "7083658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7083658", "title": "Eric Kemp", "text": "Eric Kemp\n\nEric Waldram Kemp, FRHistS (27 April 1915 – 28 November 2009) was a Church of England bishop. He was the Bishop of Chichester from 1974 to 2001. He was one of the leading Anglo-Catholics of his generation and one of the most influential figures in the Church of England in the last quarter of the twentieth century.\n\nKemp was educated at Brigg Grammar School and Exeter College, Oxford, graduating with the degrees of Bachelor of Arts in 1936, Master of Arts in 1940, Bachelor of Divinity in 1944 and Doctor of Divinity in 1961. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society in 1951 and received an honorary DLitt from the University of Sussex.\n\nKemp trained for ordination at St Stephen's House, Oxford from 1936 to 1939 where he later chaired the House Council. He was ordained deacon in 1939 and priest in 1940. He served as assistant curate of St Luke's Church in Newtown from 1939 to 1941. He moved back to Oxford, where he remained for almost 31 years, first as Priest Librarian of Pusey House, Oxford (1941–1946) and Chaplain of Christ Church, Oxford (1943–1946) and then as Fellow, Tutor and Chaplain of Exeter College, Oxford from 1946 to 1969. He was Dean of Worcester from 1969 to 1974 and Bishop of Chichester from 1974 to 2001. He was consecrated bishop before the introduction of a mandatory retirement age and was able to continue in the post for as long as he chose. As a result, on his retirement he was one of the oldest and one of the longest-serving diocesan bishops in Church of England history. He had also held subsidiary appointments as Chaplain to the Queen (1967–1969) and Canon and Prebendary of Lincoln Cathedral (1952–2001). In April 1998 he was appointed Chanoine d'Honneur (Canon of Honour) of Chartres Cathedral. Following his retirement he was made Bishop Emeritus of Chichester.\n\nKemp's father-in-law, Kenneth E. Kirk, was Regius Professor of Moral and Pastoral Theology in the University of Oxford and Bishop of Oxford. Kemp wrote a book about Kirk and in 2001 presented his letters and papers to Lambeth Palace Library. He and his wife Patricia had five children. One of his daughters, Alice Kemp, has been ordained a Church of England Priest in the Diocese of Bristol.\n\nKemp was one of the leading scholars of ecclesiastical law and a participant in conversations between the Church of England and the Methodist Church of Great Britain. He was a former member of the Court of Ecclesiastical Causes Reserved. In 1998 a volume of essays on English Canon Law was published in his honour.\n\nHe had special concern for homeless people and people living with HIV and Aids and was a supporter of the campaign to save the French Convalescent Home in Brighton. In 1994 he became President of the National Liberal Club.\n\nHe was one of only four bishops in the United Kingdom who declined to sign the Cambridge Accord, affirming the human rights of homosexuals.\n\nHe encouraged women to serve in the permanent diaconate in his diocese but was an opponent of the ordination of women to the priesthood and women priests were not licensed in the Diocese of Chichester during his episcopate. The first woman to be licensed in the diocese, following the appointment of Kemp's successor, John William Hind, was the Reverend Pat Sinton who was licensed as priest-in-charge of St Mary's Shipley in November 2001. In Kemp's time women were able to work within the diocese through the approval of the Archbishop of Canterbury.\n\nAuthor\n\nContributions\n\n\nEdited\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9295829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9295829", "title": "Erich Schmidt-Leichner", "text": "Erich Schmidt-Leichner\n\nErich Schmidt-Leichner (14 October 1910 – 17 March 1983) was a German lawyer who made a name as a distinguished defense counsel at the Nuremberg Trials (1945 - 1946). In 1978, he was a defense counsel in the \"Klingenberg Case\" (Anneliese Michel), where a married couple were accused of negligent homicide for failing to call a medical doctor during an exorcism of their daughter. \n\n"}
{"id": "57828599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57828599", "title": "Francisco de Melo (bishop)", "text": "Francisco de Melo (bishop)\n\nFrancisco de Melo (died 1536) was a Roman Catholic prelate who was named as the first Bishop of Goa (1533–1536).\n\nOn 31 Jan 1533, Francisco de Melo was appointed during the papacy of Pope Clement VII as the first Bishop of Goa. He never took possession of the diocese as he died in Evora, Portugal prior to his departure on 27 Apr 1536.\n\n"}
{"id": "12750065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12750065", "title": "Giani Pritam Singh Dhillon", "text": "Giani Pritam Singh Dhillon\n\nGiani Pritam Singh Dhillon was an Indian freedom fighter and Sikh missionary who, as a member of the Ghadar Party, was instrumental in the planning of the failed 1915 Ghadar conspiracy in the British Indian Army. Giani Pritam Singh Dhillon was a close friend of Gurbaksh Singh Dhillon, famous Sikh Indian independence movement leader and prominent member of the Indian National Army. He was also close associate of Subhas Chandra Bose. Pritam Singh is also remembered for reviving the same idea during World War II by seeking Japanese support in the establishment of what came to be the Indian National Army. Pritam Singh died in a plane crash in 1942.\n\n"}
{"id": "1402146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1402146", "title": "Globes", "text": "Globes\n\nGlobes () is a Hebrew-language daily evening financial newspaper, the largest and the oldest of its kind in Israel. Globes was founded in the early 1980s and published in Tel Aviv, Israel. It deals with economic issues and news from the Israeli and international business worlds. The color of the paper is pink, inspired by the British \"Financial Times\".\n\n\"Globes\" was one of the first Israeli dailies to publish its contents on the World Wide Web, dating back to April 1995.\n\nAccording to TGI 2017 media survey \"Globes\"′ market share is 4.3%. Its main competitors in printed media are \"TheMarker\" of the Haaretz group and \"Calcalist\" published by Yedioth Ahronoth Group. \n\nThe daily paper founded by Haim Bar-On, the publisher of the newspaper, on the basis of a small, Haifa-based financial newspaper, in partnership with businessman Eliezer Fishman.\n\nFollowing the success of \"Globes\", it had a competitor in the form of \"Telegraph\", which had a lower subscription price and was also printed on Saturday. \"Telegraph\" was closed after several years. A few years later, the Schocken Media Network published \"TheMarker\" economic newspaper as a competitor to \"Globes\".\n\nThe chief editor of \"Globes\" is Naama Sikuler. Among the regular contributors to the newspaper are Yoav Karni, Tal Schneider, Eli Tsipori, Matti Golan, Stella Korin-Lieber, and Dror Foer.\n\n\"Globes\" is distributed each night Sunday through Thursday, with two major parts:\n\n\nAmong the supplements / inserts:\n\n\nThe publishing house is located in Rishon Lezion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2441763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2441763", "title": "Hamza ibn-'Ali ibn-Ahmad", "text": "Hamza ibn-'Ali ibn-Ahmad\n\nHamza ibn ‘Alī ibn Aḥmad (985- c. 1021) (\"Hamze Pesare Ali\", literally \"Hamze Son of Ali\" ; , (Arabic: حمزة بن علي بن أحمد) was an 11th-century Ismaili and founding leader of the Druze. He was born in Zozan in Greater Khorasan in Samanid-ruled Persia (modern Khaf, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran).\n\nHamza is considered the founder of the Druze and the primary author of the Druze manuscripts.\n\nAfter spending the first twenty years of his life in Samanid-ruled Persia, Hamza emigrated to Egypt and became known in the Fatimid Government as \"Hamza al-Fātimī\" \"Hamza the Fatimid\". He arrived in Cairo (modern Egypt) just as the Fatimid Caliph Al-Ḥākim built the House of Knowledge, which became one of the main cultural centers of the Fatimid state. In a very short period of time, Hamza became a close associate of al-Ḥākim and the Caliph appointed him Head of Letters and Correspondence.\n\nHamza took as his headquarters the Raydan Mosque, which was located outside the walls of Cairo. This mosque became the center where Hamza organized a new missionary movement. In May 1017, al-Ḥākim issued a decree naming Hamza the imām of \"the Monotheists\" (\"al-Muwahhidūn\") immediately after declaring the beginning of the Divine call. Hamza demonstrated brilliant leadership for four years under al-Ḥākim’s direction.\n\nAl-Ḥākim granted Hamza the freedom to preach this new reformist doctrine openly. Public resistance to Hamza's teachings increased as he spoke against corruption, polygamy, remarriage of divorcees and other social customs as well as his theological disputes with other prominent Ismaeli leaders.\n\nDuring this external resistance, an internal rivalry arose between Hamza and one of his subordinates, ad-Darazī. Ad-Darazī deviated from the essence of the movement’s message and falsified the writings of Hamza to present al-Ḥākim as divine.\n\nAd-Darazī had hoped that al-Ḥākim would favor him over Hamza, but instead there was public opposition to his teachings. Ad-Darazī then redirected the public’s resistance by declaring that he had acted on Hamza's instructions. Consequently, instead of attacking ad-Darazī, the crowds turned against Hamza and his associates, who were at Ridyan Mosque at the time. Although al-Ḥākim executed ad-Darazī for heresy and repudiated his teachings, many years later observers attributed the Druze doctrine to ad-Darazī and do not mention Hamza at all. After the execution of ad-Darazī and his collaborators, Hamza continued his preaching activities for two more years.\n\nFew medieval chroniclers of the time not only failed to make the distinction between Druzes and Darazīs but attributed ad-Darazī’s doctrine to the followers of Hamza and argued that Hakim supported ad-Darazī’s ideas. Other historians have reported that it was Hamza who was subordinate to ad-Darazī, and still others have referred to Hamza and Darazi as the same person: Hamza ad-Darazī. As a consequence, the name “Druze” became synonymous with the reform movement.\n\nDespite the ironic and misleading origins of the sect’s name, the title “Druze” never occurs in the Druze manuscripts of the 11th century. After the execution of Darazi and his collaborators, Hamza continued his preaching activities for two more years.\n\nMany modern scholars have written that Hamza's and ad-Darazī's ideology was the same, which is preaching the literal divinity of al-Ḥākim, whom they say supported their claims. Such uncertainty is caused by the historical ambiguity of that era and the secretive, esoteric aspect of the Druze faith.\nDuring the same year that al-Ḥākim disappeared in 1021, Hamza went into retreat and delegated the third leading figure, \"Baha'ud-Dīn as-Samuqī\" (\"al-Muqtana Baha’ud-Dīn\") to continue the missionary movement. Baha’ud-Dīn continued public preaching with the approval of Hamza, who was in a disclosed location known only to Baha’ud-Dīn and few other missionaries. Preaching was halted after the Druze sect was closed in 1043 by Baha’ud-Dīn.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "535179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=535179", "title": "Ifá", "text": "Ifá\n\nIfá is a religion and system of divination and refers to the verses of the literary corpus known as the \"Odu Ifá\". Orunmila is identified as the Grand Priest, as he is who revealed divinity and prophecy to the world. Babalawos or Iyanifas use either the divining chain known as \"Opele\", or the sacred palm or kola nuts called \"Ikin\", on the wooden divination tray called \"Opon Ifá\".\n\nIfá is practiced throughout the Americas, West Africa, and the Canary Islands, in the form of a complex religious system, and plays a critical role in the traditions of Santería, Candomblé, Palo, Umbanda, Vodou, and other Afro-American faiths, as well as in some traditional African religions.\n\nThe 16 principle system seems to have its earliest history in West Africa. Each Niger–Congo-speaking ethnic group has its own myths of origin; Yoruba religion suggests that it was founded by Orunmila in Ilé-Ifẹ̀ when he initiated himself and then he initiated his students, \"Akoda\" and \"Aseda\". Other myths suggest that it was brought to Ilé-Ifẹ̀ by \"Setiu\", a Nupe man who settled in Ilé-Ifẹ̀. According to the book \"The History of the Yorubas from the Earliest of Times to the British Protectorate\" (1921) by Nigerian historian Samuel Johnson and Obadiah Johnson, it was Arugba, the mother of Onibogi, the 8th Alaafin of Oyo who introduced Oyo to Ifá in the late 1400s. She initiated the Alado of Ato and conferred on him the rites to initiate others. The Alado, in turn, initiated the priests of Oyo and that was how Ifá came to be in the Oyo empire. Odinani suggests that Dahomey Kings noted that the system of Afá was brought by a diviner known as \"Gogo\" from eastern Nigeria.\n\nOrunmila came to establish an oral literary corpus incorporating stories and experiences of priests and their clients along with the results. This odu corpus emerges as the leading documentation on the Ifá tradition to become a historical legacy.\n\nIn Yorubaland, divination gives priests unreserved access to the teachings of Orunmila. Eshu is the one said to lend ashe to the oracle during provision of direction and or clarification of counsel. Eshu is also the one that holds the keys to ones ire, thus acts as Oluwinni (ones Creditor), he can grant ire or remove it. Ifá divination rites provide an avenue of communication to the spiritual realm and the intent of ones destiny.\n\nIn Igboland, Ifá is known as Afá, and is performed by specialists called \"Dibia\". The Dibia is considered a doctor and specializes in the use of herbs for healing and transformation.\n\nAmong the Ewe people of southern Togo and southeast Ghana, Ifá is known as Afá, where the Vodun spirits come through and speak. In many of their Egbes, it is \"Alaundje\" who is honored as the first \"Bokono\" to have been taught how to divine the destiny of humans using the holy system of Afá.\nThe \"Amengansi\" are the living oracles who are higher than a bokono. A priest who is not a bokono is known as \"Hounan\", similar to Houngan, a male priest in Haitian Vodou, a derivative religion of Vodun, the religion of the Ewe.\n\nThere are sixteen major books in Odu Ifá literary corpus. When combined there are total of 256 Odu (a collection of sixteen, each of which has sixteen alternatives ⇔ 16^2, or 4^4) believed to reference all situations, circumstances, actions and consequences in life based on the uncountable ese (poetic tutorials) relative to the 256 Odu coding. These form the basis of traditional Yoruba spiritual knowledge and are the foundation of all Yoruba divination systems. Ifá proverbs, stories, and poetry are not written down but passed down orally from one \"babalawo\" to another.\n\nThe Ifá Divination system was added in 2005 by UNESCO to its list of the \"Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9724683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9724683", "title": "Islam in Oceania", "text": "Islam in Oceania\n\nIslam in Oceania refers to Islam and Muslims in Oceania. By current estimates, there are 620,156 Muslims in Oceania, 476,600 in Australia, 48,151 in New Zealand, 52,520 in Fiji, 6,352 in New Caledonia, 2,200 in Papua New Guinea, 360 in Solomon Islands, 221 in Vanuatu, 110 in Tonga and tiny numbers in Kiribati and Samoa.\n\nAccording to a 2007 article in \"Pacific Magazine\", entitled 'Green Moon Rising', Islam has seen a substantial increase in adherents amongst the peoples of Vanuatu, Fiji, Solomon Islands, Papua New Guinea and New Caledonia. There have been thousands of indigenous converts to Islam in Melanesia.\n\nThere are also approximately 400 Muslims in Palau, whose government recently allowed a few Uyghurs detained in Guantanamo Bay to settle in the island nation.\n\nIslam has been in some parts of Oceania for at least 400 years (since the 17th century). When the people of New Guinea traded with China and the Malay empire, in the early 17th century, the presence of Islam was felt in Oceania for the first time.\n\nOther parts of Oceania did not feel the presence of Islam until the 19th century. For instance, the first Muslims in Fiji came when Muslim migrants came on a ship bringing indentured labourers to Fiji in 1879. Muslims consisted of 22% of the boarders on \"Leonidas\", which was the first such ship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1946196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1946196", "title": "Islamic culture", "text": "Islamic culture\n\nIslamic culture is a term primarily used in secular academia to describe the cultural practices common to historically Islamic people—i.e., the culture of the Islamicate. The early forms of Muslim culture were predominantly Arab. With the rapid expansion of the Islamic empires, Muslim culture has influenced and assimilated much from the Persian, Caucasian, Bangladeshi, Turkic, Mongol, Indian, Malay, Somali, Berber, Egyptian, Indonesian, and Moro cultures.\n\nIslamic culture generally includes all the practices which have developed around the religion of Islam, including Qur'anic ones such as prayer (salat) and non-Qur'anic such as divisions of the world in Islam. It includes the Baul tradition of Bengal. There are variations in the application of Islamic beliefs in different cultures and traditions.\n\nMuslim Culture/History\n\nEarly Muslim literature is in Arabic, as that was the language of Muhammad's communities in Mecca and Medina. As the early history of the Muslim community was focused on establishing the religion of Islam, its literary output was religious in character. See the articles on Qur'an, Hadith, and Sirah, which formed the earliest literature of the Muslim community.\n\nWith the establishment of the Umayyad empire, secular Muslim literature developed. See \"The Book of One Thousand and One Nights\". While having no religious content, this secular literature was spread by the Arabs all over their empires, and so became part of a widespread culture.\nThis is only one example of a vast heritage of literature and poetry works that were composed in Arabic besides enormous numbers of texts that dealt with theology, philosophy, mysticism, the sciences, whereby the Arabic language was the lingua franca of the Muslim world for over seven centuries till the rise of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nBy the time of the Abbasid empire, Persian had become the second language of Muslim World. Much of the most famous Muslim literature was written in Persian, from Rumi in Anatolia, to Nizami in the Caucasus, to Jami in Samarkand and Amir Khusrow in Delhi.\n\nFrom the 11th century, there was a growing body of Islamic literature in the Turkic languages. However, for centuries to come the official language in Turkish-speaking areas would remain Persian. In Anatolia, with the advent of the Seljuks, the practise and usage of Persian in the region would be strongly revived. A branch of the Seljuks, the Sultanate of Rum, took Russian language, art and letters to Anatolia. They adopted Persian language as the official language of the empire. The Ottomans, which can \"roughly\" be seen as their eventual successors, took this tradition over. Persian was the official court language of the empire, and for some time, the official language of the empire, though the lingua franca amongst common people from the 15th/16th century would become Turkish as well as having laid an active \"foundation\" for the Turkic language as early as the 4th century (see Turkification). After a period of several centuries, Ottoman Turkish (which was highly Arabo-Persianised itself) had developed towards a fully accepted language of literature, which was even able to satisfy the demands of a scientific presentation. However, the number of Persian and Arabic loanwords contained in those works increased at times up to 88%. However, Turkish was proclaimed the official language of the Karamanids in the 17th century, though it didn't manage to become the official language in a wider area or larger empire until the advent of the Ottomans. With the establishment of the Ottoman Empire, Ottoman Turkish (a highly Arabo-Persianised version of Oghuz Turkic) grew in importance in both poetry and prose becoming, by the beginning of the 18th century, the official language of the Empire. Unlike India, where Persian remained the official and principal literary language of both Muslim and Hindu states until the 19th century.\n\nFor a thousand years, India was a centre for Persian-Arabic Islamic literature. More Persian literature was produced in India than in the Iranian world. As late as the 20th century, Allama Iqbal chose Persian for some of his major poetic works.\n\nIn Bengal, the Baul tradition of mystic music and poetry merged Sufism with many local images. The most prominent poets were Hason Raja and Lalon Shah.\n\nDuring the early 14th century, the liberal poet Kazi Nazrul Islam espoused intense spiritual rebellion against oppression, fascism and religious fundamentalism; and also wrote a highly acclaimed collection of Bengali ghazals. \"Sultana's Dream\" by Begum Rokeya, an Islamic feminist, is one earliest works of feminist science fiction.\n\nPublic Islamic art is traditionally non-representational, except for the widespread use of plant forms, usually in varieties of the spiralling arabesque. These are often combined with Islamic calligraphy, geometric patterns in styles that are typically found in a wide variety of media, from small objects in ceramic or metalwork to large decorative schemes in tiling on the outside and inside of large buildings, including mosques. However, there is a long tradition in Islamic art of the depiction of human and animal figures, especially in painting and small anonymous relief figures as part of a decorative scheme. Almost all Persian miniatures (as opposed to decorative illuminations) include figures, often in large numbers, as do their equivalents in Arab, Mughal and Ottoman miniatures. But miniatures in books or muraqqa albums were private works owned by the elite. Larger figures in monumental sculpture are exceptionally rare until recent times, and portraiture showing realistic representations of individuals (and animals) did not develop until the late 16th century in miniature painting, especially Mughal miniatures. Manuscripts of the Qur'an and other sacred texts have always been strictly kept free of such figures, but there is a long tradition of the depiction of Muhammad and other religious figures in books of history and poetry; since the 20th century Muhammad has mostly been shown as though wearing a veil hiding his face, and many earlier miniatures were overpainted to use this convention.\n\nSome consider that Islam prohibits the depiction of animate beings in paintings and drawings. One possible reason for this is that it removes the risk of idol worship. Islam teaches that Allah alone should be worshipped; it also holds that banning pictures of Muhammad, the Prophets, and animate beings reduces the risk that they will be worshipped in his place.\n\nHowever, some others argue that the depiction of animated beings is permissible if the art was not meant to be worshipped, and the creator did not intend to rival God (or intended any heresy) in the creation. This is due to the hadith that mentioned the Prophet had once asked his wife to move a picture of two birds in the room in which he prays somewhere else. However, he didn't ask the picture to be destroyed. This, along with other hadiths, made some believe that pictures of animated beings that are not worshipped or to be considered heresy, is permissible (although using it as a form of luxury, such as hanging them on a wall is often discouraged in some branches of Islam).\nOne exemption that maybe mentioned is the case of the Al Buraq, white animal smaller than a mule and bigger than a donkey which brought Mohammed from Masjid-el-Haram in Mecca to Masjid-el-Aqsa in Jerusalem in the Journey by Night (V. 53.12), Isra 17:1a).\n\nForbidden to paint living things and taught to revere the Qur'an, Islamic artists developed Arabic calligraphy into an art form. Calligraphers have long drawn from the Qur'an or proverbs as art, using the flowing Arabic language to express the beauty they perceive in the verses of Qur'an.\n\nIslamic architecture may be identified with the following design elements, which were inherited from the first mosque built by Muhammad in Medina, as well as from other pre-Islamic features adapted from churches and synagogues.\n\nWhilst theatre is permitted by Islam, Islam does not allow for any performances to depict Allah, Muhammad, his companions, the angels or matters detailed in the religion that are unseen.\n\nThe most popular forms of theatre in the medieval Islamic world were puppet theatre (which included hand puppets, shadow plays and marionette productions) and live passion plays known as \"ta'ziya\", where actors re-enact episodes from Muslim history. In particular, Shia Islamic plays revolved around the \"shaheed\" (martyrdom) of Ali's sons Hasan ibn Ali and Husayn ibn Ali. Live secular plays were known as \"akhraja\", recorded in medieval \"adab\" literature, though they were less common than puppetry and \"ta'zieh\" theatre.\n\nOne of the oldest, and most enduring, forms of puppet theatre is the Wayang of Indonesia. Although it narrates primarily pre-Islamic legends, it is also an important stage for Islamic epics such as the adventures of Amir Hamzah (pictured). Islamic Wayang is known as \"Wayang Sadat\" or \"Wayang Menak\".\n\nKaragoz, the Turkish Shadow Theatre has influenced puppetry widely in the region. It is thought to have passed from China by way of India. Later it was taken by the Mongols from the Chinese and transmitted to the Turkish peoples of Central Russia. Thus the art of Shadow Theatre was brought to Anatolia by the Turkish people emigrating from Central Asia. Other scholars claim that shadow theatre came to Anatolia in the 16th century from Egypt. The advocates of this view claim that when Yavuz Sultan Selim conquered Egypt in 1517, he saw shadow theatre performed during an extacy party put on in his honour. Yavuz Sultan Selim was so impressed with it that he took the puppeteer back to his palace in Istanbul. There his 47-year-old son, later Sultan Suleyman the Magnificent, developed an interest in the plays and watched them a great deal. Thus shadow theatre found its way into the Ottoman palaces.\n\nIn other areas the style of shadow puppetry known as \"khayal al-zill\" – an intentionally metaphorical term whose meaning is best translated as ‘shadows of the imagination’ or ‘shadow of fancy' survives. This is a shadow play with live music ..”the accompaniment of drums, tambourines and flutes...also...“special effects” – smoke, fire, thunder, rattles, squeaks, thumps, and whatever else might elicit a laugh or a shudder from his audience\"\n\nIn Iran puppets are known to have existed much earlier than 1000, but initially only glove and string puppets were popular in Iran. Other genres of puppetry emerged during the Qajar era (18th–19th century) as influences from Turkey spread to the region. \"Kheimeh Shab-Bazi\" is a Persian traditional puppet show which is performed in a small chamber by a musical performer and a storyteller called a \"morshed\" or \"naghal\". These shows often take place alongside storytelling in traditional tea and coffee-houses (\"Ghahve-Khave\"). The dialogue takes place between the morshed and the puppets. Puppetry remains very popular in Iran, the touring opera Rostam and Sohrab puppet opera being a recent example.\n\nThe Royal Opera House in Muscat, Oman. It is considered to be the first opera house linking Islamic culture with classical music.\n\nMany forms of dancing arts are practised in Muslim cultures, both in religious and secular contexts (such as folk and tribal dances, court dances, dances of celebration during weddings and festivals, belly dancing, \"etc.\").\n\nSome scholars of Islamic \"fiqh\" pronounced gender based rulings on dance, making it permissible for women within a female only environment, as is often performed at celebrations, but discouraging men to engage in it. Other classical authorities including Al-Ghazzali and Al-Nawawi allow it without this distinction, but criticised dancing which is \"languid\" or excites carnal lusts.\n\nMost of the religious orders (\"tariqa\") which dominate traditional Muslim religious life practice ritualised forms of dance in the context of \"dhikr\" ceremonies. \"Dhikr\", \"recollection\" (of God) is a meditative form of worship different from ritual prayer where the seeker focuses all of his senses and thoughts on God in the hope of attaining \"maarifat\" (experiential knowledge of God) and triggering mystic states within him- or herself. \"Dhikr\" can be performed individually or with like-minded followers under the direction of a sheikh, and can involve silent meditation or repetition and visualisation of sacred words such as the 99 names of God or Quranic phrases, and may be done at rest or with rhythmic movements and controlling one's breath. Traditional Islamic orders have developed varied \"dhikr\" exercises including sometimes highly elaborate ritual dances accompanied by Sufi poetry and classical music.\n\nAl-Ghazzali discussed the use of music and dancing in \"dhikr\" and the mystical states it induces in worshippers, as well as regulating the etiquette attached to these ceremonies, in his short treatise on Islamic spirituality \"The Alchemy of Happiness\" and in his highly influential work \"The Revival of the Religious Sciences\". Al-Ghazzali emphasized how the practices of music and dance are beneficial to religious seekers, as long as their hearts are pure before engaging in these practices.\n\nNotable examples include the Mevlevi Order founded by Jalaluddin Rumi, which was the main Sunni order of the Ottoman empire, and its \"sama\" ritual (known in the West as \"the whirling dervishes\"). The Mevlevi order, its rituals and Ottoman classical music has been banned in Turkey through much of the 20th century as part of the country's drive towards secular \"modernisation\", and the order's properties have been expropriated and the country's mosques put out of its control, which has radically diminished its influence in modern Turkey. In 2008, UNESCO confirmed the \"Mevlevi Sama Ceremony\" of Turkey as one of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity, and the practice is now regaining interest.\n\nIn Egypt and the Levant, the Mevlevi form of \"sama\" is known as tannoura and has been adopted (with some modifications) by other Sufi orders as well.\n\nThe Chishti order, traditionally the dominant Islamic institution in Afghanistan and the Indian subcontinent and the most ancient of the major Sufi orders, also practices forms of \"sama\" similar to the Mevlevis, as well as other forms of devotional dance such as \"dhamaal\". The order is strongly associated with the development of Hindustani classical music and semi-classical devotional genres such as \"qawwali\" through famed pioneer figures such as Amir Khusrow. The Chishti order remains one of the largest and strongest Muslim religious orders in the world by far, retaining a vast influence on the spirituality and culture of around 500 million Muslims living in the Indian subcontinent.\n\nOther examples of devotional dance are found in the Maghreb where it is associated with gnawa music, as well as Sub-Saharan Africa and South-East Asia. The Naqshbandi order, predominant among Iran's Sunni minority, is a notable exception in that they do not use music and dancing in the context of \"dhikr\".\n\nIn addition to these strictly religious forms of dance, colourful dancing processions traditionally take place in Muslim communities during weddings and public celebrations such as \"Mawlid\", \"Eid el-Adha\", and so on. Many Islamic cultures have also developed classical forms of dance in the context for instance of Mughal, Ottoman, Persian and Javanese court cultures, as well as innumerable local folk and tribal dances (for instance amongst Bedouin, Tuareg and Pashto peoples), and other forms of dance used for entertainment or sometimes healing such as belly dancing (principally associated with Egyptian culture).\n\nAlthough \"tariqas\" and their rituals have been an omnipresent part of Muslim life for most of Islam's history and were largely responsible for the spread of Islam throughout the world, their following and influence has sharply declined since the late 19th century, having been vigorously opposed and combated in turns by the French and British colonial administrations and by Muslim modernists and secularists like Kemal Ataturk, and in recent decades have been the target of vocal opposition by the fundamentalist Wahhabi sect promoted by Saudi Arabia (where most of the heritage associated with Sufism and \"tariqa\" was physically destroyed by the state in the 1930s). Wahhabi militant groups such as ISIS and the Taliban are repeatedly targeting \"dhikr\" ceremonies in terrorist attacks, notably in Egypt and Pakistan.\n\nMany Muslims are very familiar to listening to music.\nThe classic heartland of Islam is Arabia as well as other parts of the Middle East, North Africa and Central Asia. Because Islam is a multicultural religion, the musical expression of its adherents is diverse.\n\n\nThe Seljuk Turks, a nomadic tribe that converted to Islam, conquered Anatolia (now Turkey), and held the Caliphate as the Ottoman Empire, also had a strong influence on Islamic music. See Turkish classical music.\n\nSub-Saharan Africa, India, and the Malay Archipelago also have large Muslim populations, but these areas have had less influence than the heartland on the various traditions of Islamic music. For South India, see: Mappila Songs, Duff Muttu.\n\nAll these regions were connected by trade long before the Islamic conquests of the 7th century and later, and it is likely that musical styles travelled the same routes as trade goods. However, lacking recordings, we can only speculate as to the pre-Islamic music of these areas. Islam must have had a great influence on music, as it united vast areas under the first caliphs, and facilitated trade between distant lands. Certainly the Sufis, brotherhoods of Muslim mystics, spread their music far and wide.\n\nSee articles on Eid ul-Fitr, Eid ul-Adha, Ashurah (see also Hosay and Tabuik), Mawlid, Lailat al Miraj and Shab-e-baraat.\n\nIn Islam, marriage is a legal bond and social contract between a man and a woman as prompted by the Shari'a.\n\nIn Islam, the role of the family is very important. There is also the belief that a lot can be learned from having three generations living under the same roof. By having household members treat and assist grandparents will strengthen the bond within the family, and within oneself. Extended family also plays a crucial role. In historic times in Islamic culture, families often lived near one another. This is not necessarily true in our society today, as families may live farther away from each other due to demands in jobs and other commitments. Still, many Muslim families retain identities that are separate from the dominant culture while having interconnected involvement within society. However, the idea of a close family bond is still present in Islamic culture even with these modern changes, and family is ultimately seen as a great source of help during times of conflict within an immediate family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17919570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17919570", "title": "L. Ron Hubbard House", "text": "L. Ron Hubbard House\n\nThe L. Ron Hubbard House, also known as the Original Founding Church of Scientology, is a writer's house museum and former Scientology church located at 1812 19th Street NW in the Dupont Circle neighborhood of Washington, D.C., United States. Public tours are given on a regular basis. The operating Founding Church is now located at 1424 16th Street for services, bookstore and classes. The home served as the residence of Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard from 1955 until 1959, during which time he incorporated the Founding Church of Scientology and performed the first Scientology wedding. The building is a contributing property to the Dupont Circle Historic District, a neighborhood listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe row of buildings located at 1810 -1820 19th Street NW was designed by local architectural firm Wood, Donn, & Deming for Arvine W. Johnston in 1904. Notable owners of the home during the early 20th century included United States Senators James K. Jones and Claude A. Swanson.\n\nHubbard purchased the home in 1955, the same year he organized the Founding Church which met at 1826 R Street NW from July 21, 1955 until 1959. The building later served as the home of the Academy of Scientology, previously located at 1845 R Street NW, and known as The Academy of Religious Arts and Sciences. Additional Scientology organizations once located at the L. Ron Hubbard House include the National Academy of American Psychology (NAAP).\n\nIn January 1963, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) ordered a raid against the Academy's 19th Street location, seizing more than 100 e-meters (electronic devices used by Scientologists) and 200 pieces of literature. The raid resulted in a lawsuit filed by the FDA against the Founding Church. In 1971, the Church and FDA reached a settlement which included a ruling that all e-meters bear a prominent warning label. The seized items were returned to the Founding Church in October 1973.\n\nAfter the Founding Church sold the property in the mid-1970s, it was once again used for residential purposes. An organization called the Friends of L. Ron Hubbard repurchased the home in 2004.\n\nThe three-story L. Ron Hubbard House is an example of Mediterranean Revival Style architecture, a design frequently used by Waddy Butler Wood and his associates. The building's exterior consists of cream-colored brick, accented with stone and wood trimming. Decorative features include a two-story bay window, red-tiled roof, and Flemish gable.\n\nThe museum opened in 2007 following a year-long renovation to restore the building to its 1957 appearance. It contains a recreation of the Hubbard Communications Office and various literature describing Hubbard's early life. A tour of the museum is available by appointment only. The 2014 property value of the L. Ron Hubbard House is $2,004,060. Since October 27, 2003, ownership of the building has been registered to Heritage Properties International, indicated by tax returns to be a front group of the Church of Spiritual Technology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34879937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34879937", "title": "List of buildings of pre-Mongol Rus", "text": "List of buildings of pre-Mongol Rus\n\nThis is a complete list of the currently existing buildings created in the Kievan Rus before the Mongol invasions of the 1230s. The vast majority of these buildings are churches. Only three secular buildings survived from the period.\n\nMost of the churches were completely rebuilt over the years and lost some of essential features of the Old Rus architecture. Some were destroyed in the 20th century and then replicas were built years later. These churches are included in the list. Churches which were destroyed and subsequently rebuilt without any attempts of scientific reconstruction (the Assumption Church of Virgin Pirogoshcha and the Saint Michael Cathedral of St. Michael's Golden-Domed Monastery, both in Kiev) are not included.\n\nThe list is organized geographically, roughly corresponding to the main principalities of the Kievan Rus. Inside these divisions, the entries are sorted by the date of the first creation.\n"}
{"id": "23797281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23797281", "title": "Micchami Dukkadam", "text": "Micchami Dukkadam\n\nIt is used widely in the Jain religion on the last day (Samvatsari or Kshamavani) of Paryushana, the most important annual holy event of the Jain calendar. As a matter of ritual, Jains greet their friends and relatives on this last day with \"Micchāmi Dukkaḍaṃ\", seeking their forgiveness. No private quarrel or dispute should be carried beyond this time. The importance of forgiveness in Jainism may be compared to the importance of forgiveness in other religions.\n\nThe phrase is also used by Jains throughout the year when a person makes a mistake, or recollects making one in everyday life, or when asking for forgiveness in advance for inadvertent ones. \n\nAt the end of the festival Paryushana, devotees request forgiveness for any offenses committed during the year by saying ‘Micchami Dukkadam’ or ‘Uttam Kshama’ meaning “If I have offended you in any way, knowingly or unknowingly, in thought, word or deed, then I seek your forgiveness.” \n\n\"micchāmi dukkaḍaṃ\" is most commonly used on the last day (\"Samvatsari\") of one of the most holy annual Jain events, Paryushana. After \"pratikramana\" (Jain prayer, literally meaning \"introspection\"), Jains seek forgiveness from almost all the creatures of the world whom they may have harmed knowingly or unknowingly by uttering the phrase—\"micchāmi dukkaḍaṃ\".\n\nParyushana frequently falls in August or September during Cāturmāsa, four months into the rainy season. This annual holy time for Jains is reserved for prayers, meditation, introspection, penance, and fasting. Even the wandering monks temporarily abandon their wandering life and settle down amidst laymen, giving discourses and organizing scriptural recitations.\n\nTraditionally, letters were sent and telephone calls made to friends and relatives asking their forgiveness.\n\nThe phrase \"michchāmi dukkaḍaṃ\" is also found in the \"Airyapathiki Sutra\". It literally means — may all the evil that has been done be fruitless, and comes from the Prakrit language, a middle Indo-Aryan language, closely linked with Pali and used abundantly in the Prakrit canon of Jainism. <br>\nThe Sanskrit version\"(chayā)\" of the phrase is \"mithyā me duṣkṛitām\" meaning \"may the evil of it be in vain\". or simply put \"May my misdeeds be undone.\"<br>\n\"mithyā\" refers to 'being fruitless' or 'getting absolved of'. \"me\" refers to 'my'. \"duṣkṛitām\" refers to 'bad deeds'.\n\n"}
{"id": "23971816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23971816", "title": "Miguel H. Díaz", "text": "Miguel H. Díaz\n\nMiguel Humberto Díaz (born September 29, 1963) is an American theologian, diplomat and commentator who served as United States Ambassador to the Holy See. He was nominated by President Barack Obama and confirmed by the U.S. Senate on August 5, 2009. He resigned on November 5, 2012, and was immediately named University Professor of Faith and Culture at the University of Dayton. He was the first Hispanic U.S. Ambassador accredited to the Holy See.\n\nAs ambassador, Díaz helped launch the Religion in Foreign Policy Working Group of the Secretary of State's Strategic Dialogue with Civil Society. The Working Group facilitates regular dialogue between the U.S. foreign policy establishment and religious leaders, scholars, and practitioners worldwide on strategies to build more effective partnerships on issues such as conflict prevention, humanitarian assistance and national security.\n\nOn May 20, 2014, Loyola University Chicago announced that they intended to hire Díaz as a professor despite the University of Dayton harassment allegation. A spokesman for Loyola said in an email, \"We have reviewed the allegations raised against Miguel Diaz and our offer to him stands.\" He became a professor at Loyola on July 1, 2014.\n\nDíaz was born in Havana, Cuba, and he and his family departed for Spain when he was nine. Two years later, he immigrated to Florida. He comes from a modest background; his father worked as a waiter and his mother worked as a data entry clerk. Díaz holds a B.A. from St. Thomas University and an M.A. and a Ph.D. in Theology from the University of Notre Dame.\n\nPrior to his service as ambassador, he was a professor of theology at the College of Saint Benedict and Saint John's University in Minnesota. Díaz is the co-editor of the book \"From the Heart of Our People: Explorations in Catholic Systematic Theology\" and author of \"On Being Human: U.S. Hispanic and Rahnerian Perspectives\", named \"Best Book of the Year\" by the Hispanic Theological Initiative at Princeton Theological Seminary. Díaz has taught religious studies and theology at Barry University, the University of Dayton and the University of Notre Dame. From 2001 to 2003, he taught and served as academic dean at St. Vincent de Paul Regional Seminary in Boynton Beach, Florida. He is a board member of the Catholic Theological Society of America (CTSA) and past president of the Academy of Catholic Hispanic Theologians of the United States (ACHTUS).\n\nConservative news outlet Newsmax claimed that Díaz was rejected by the Vatican several times for being \"insufficiently pro-life\". However, Time magazine said that the story was false.\n\nBuilding on the work of Karl Rahner, Díaz has placed extensive emphasis on the role of the Trinity in history. Along with theologians such as Catherine LaCugna, Díaz argues that the life of God cannot be considered apart from history, but must be conceived as \"for us, and for our salvation.\" In this vein, he has also asserted that in the contemporary American context, God can be seen vividly \"in the face of migrants,\" who face the dangers of economic insecurity, violence, and social marginalization in search of a better life.\n\nDíaz gave his first speech on U.S. soil as ambassador on Friday, February 5, 2010, at St. John Vianney College Seminary in Miami, Fl. He spoke at the seminary's 11th Annual Fides et Ratio Conference on the relations between the U.S. Government and the Holy See. Ambassador Díaz attended St. John Vianney College Seminary and obtained a certificate in Pre-Theology.\n\nHe received several honorary doctorates while serving as ambassador. \n\nAfter joining the University of Dayton, he was sought for analysis and comment by the national news media, especially upon the resignation of Pope Benedict XVI in February 2013. He currently holds the John Courtney Murray University Chair in Public Service at Loyola University Chicago where he continues to be sought by multiple media outlets for analysis and commentary.\n\n"}
{"id": "16722280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16722280", "title": "Milk kinship", "text": "Milk kinship\n\nMilk kinship, formed during nursing by a non-biological mother, was a form of fostering allegiance with fellow community members. This particular form of kinship did not exclude particular groups, such that class and other hierarchal systems did not matter in terms of milk kinship participation.\n\nTraditionally speaking, this practice predates the early modern period, though it became a widely used mechanism for developing alliances in many hierarchical societies during that time. Milk kinship used the practice of breast feeding by a wet nurse to feed a child either from the same community, or a neighbouring one. This wet nurse played the strategic role in forging relations between her family and the family of the child she was nursing, as well as their community.\n\nIn the early modern period, milk kinship was widely practiced in many Arab countries for both religious and strategic purposes. Like the Christian practice of godparenting, milk kinship established a second family that could take responsibility for a child whose biological parents came to harm. \"Milk kinship in Islam thus appears to be a culturally distinctive, but by no means unique, institutional form of adoptive \n\nThe childhood of the Islamic prophet, Muhammad, illustrates the practice of traditional Arab milk kinship. In his early childhood, he was sent away to foster-parents amongst the Bedouin. By nursing him, Halimah bint Abdullah became his \"milk-mother.\" The rest of her family was drawn into the relationship as well: her husband al-Harith became Muhammad's \"milk-father,\" and Muhammad was raised alongside their biological children as a \"milk-brother\". Due to milk kinship a man cannot marry\n\nWhen Crazy Horse was a baby, he nursed at the breast of every woman in the tribe. The Sioux raised their children that way. Every warrior called every woman in the tribe \"Mother\". Every older warrior, they called him \"Grandfather\". \n\n\"Colactation links two families of unequal status and creates a durable and intimate bond; it removes from 'clients' their outsider status but excludes them as marriage partners…it brings about a social relationship that is an alternative to kinship bonds based on blood.\" People of different races and religions could be brought together strategically through the bonding of the milk mother and their milk ‘children’. \n\nMilk kinship was as relevant for peasants as ‘fostering’ or as ‘hosting’ other children, in that it secured the good will from their masters and their wives. As previously mentioned the milk women’s family is the ‘core range’ to the child she is nursing and they become milk kin, which may strategically be useful for the future if the child is from a higher class family, as the milk women’s children will become ‘milk-brothers’ and ‘milk-sisters.’ Thus peasant women would most often play the role of the ‘milk’ mother to her non-biological children, and they held an important role in maintaining the connection between herself and the master whose baby she is nursing. It is also important to note that it was also a practical way to assist families who were of a very ill mother or whose mother died in childbirth. This would have been helpful in many societies where, especially in times of war, if families perished, other members of society would end up co-parenting through the link of milk-kinship. \n\nNoble offspring were often sent to milk kin fosterers that would foster them to maturity so that the children would be raised by their successive status subordinates. The purpose of this was for political importance to build milk kin as bodyguards. This was a major practice in the Hindu Kush society.\n\nOne particular theory mentioned by Peter Parkes is an Arab folk-analogy that breast milk is supposed to be “transformed male semen” that arises from Hertiers Somatic Scheme. There is no evidence that Arabs ever considered a mother's milk to be ‘transformed sperm’. Another suggested analogy is that breast milk was a refinement of uterine blood. It is also suggested since that milk is of the woman, her moods and dispositions are transferred through the breast milk. Parkes mentions that milk-kinship was “further endorsed as a canonical impediment to marriage by several eastern Christian churches”. This indicates that this procedure was widely practiced among numerous religious communities, not just Islamic communities, in the early modern Mediterranean.\n\nSoraya Altorki (1980) published a pioneering article on Sunni Arab notions of kinship created through suckling breast milk (Arabic: \"rida’a orrada’\"). Altorki indicated that milk kinship had received little attention from anthropologists, despite its recognised significance in Muslim family law as a complex impediment to marriage. Milk kinship has since attracted further fieldwork throughout Islamic Asia and North Africa, demonstrating its importance as a culturally distinctive institution of adoptive affiliation.\n\nHéritier's somatic thesis posits that Islamic marriage between milk kin is forbidden because of an ancient pre-Islamic meme that is communicated in the Arab saying ‘the milk is from the man’. Héritier’s somatic explanation has since been endorsed – and apparently confirmed – by several French ethnographers of the Maghreb, also being further developed in her monograph on incest.\n\nIn reaction, a few scholars have cited Islamic commentaries and jurisprudence. \"A child is the product of the conjoint seed of man and woman . . . but milk is the property of woman alone; one should not conflate by analogy (qiyas) milk with male semen.\" Al-Qurtubi, Jami’ al-ahkam V.83, cited in Benkheira (2001a: 26). The rules of Sunni marital incest apply through a standard of adoptive kin relations. But the modern jurisprudence does not negate nor explain the origin of the taboo.\n\nHéritier explains Islamic juridical reckonings of milk kinship as the continuation of a somatic scheme of male filiative substances transmitted by lactation. But Parker critically interrogates its supposition of a peculiar Arab folk-physiology of lactation, whereby breast milk is supposed to be transformed male semen, yet mentions that Héritier has properly focused attention on evidently contested issues of ‘patrifiliation’ by breast-feeding, which remain to be understood. Parker posits that this somatic scheme seems to be unsubstantiated by current ethnographies, and also unwarranted in understanding the juridical reckoning of milk kinship that it purports to explain.\n\nWeisner-Hanks mentions the introduction in the fifteenth century of prohibitions in the Christian Canon Law, in which one is not allowed to marry any one suspected to be of respective kin. Individuals who shared godparents, and great grandparents were prohibited against marrying. The prohibitions against marriage also extended to that of natural godparents. This was because both natural and ‘foster’ or ‘spiritual’ parents had an investment on the child’s spiritual well being, which would not be achieved by going against Canon Law. The practice of milk kinship is paralleled quite frequently, among scholarly works, with that of Christian godparent-hood or spiritual kinship. Parkes states that in both milk kinship and god-or co-parenthood “we deal with a fictitious kinship relationship between people of unequal status that is embedded in a long-term exchange of goods and services that we know as patronage”. Iranians seemed to have “taken care to confine delegated suckling to subordinate non-kin - particularly those with whom marriage would be undesirable in any event”. Marriage taboos due to milk kinship were taken very seriously since some regarded breast milk to be refined female blood from the womb, thus conveying a ‘uterine substance’ of kinship. Children who were milk kin to each other were prohibited to marry as well as two children from different parents who were suckled by the same woman. It was as much of a taboo to marry your milk-brother or -sister, as it was to marry a biological brother or sister. It is extremely important to understand that in all cases “What is forbidden by blood kinship is equally forbidden by milk kinship”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2204838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2204838", "title": "Morya (Theosophy)", "text": "Morya (Theosophy)\n\nMorya is one of the \"Masters of the Ancient Wisdom\" within modern Theosophical beliefs. He is one of the Mahatmas who inspired the founding of the Theosophical Society and was engaged in a correspondence with two English Theosophists living in India, A. P. Sinnett and A. O. Hume. The correspondence was published in 1923 by A. Trevor Barker, in the book The Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnett.\n\nH. P. Blavatsky, originally described the existence of a spiritual master whom she considered her guru, and who went by, among other names, Morya. Blavatsky said that Morya and another master, Koot Hoomi, were her primary guides in establishing the Theosophical Society. Blavatsky also wrote that Masters Morya and Koot Hoomi belonged to a group of highly developed humans known to some as the Great White Brotherhood or the White Lodge (though this is not how they described themselves). Master Morya's personality has been depicted in some detail by various theosophical authors. A man \"living on the earth, but possessed of developed senses that laughed at time and space.\" On the other hand author P. Jenkins challenges that there is little evidence that Blavatsky's Masters, including Morya, ever existed. Author K. Paul Johnson wrote that Blavatsky gave conflicting versions of her meeting with Morya and suggests Blavatsky fictionalized the story, basing it on her encounter with an Italian political activist. Blavatsky's published works have been praised by New York papers as exhibiting immense research, in referring to her book Isis Unveiled the New York Sun writes, \"the strange part of this is, as I and many others can testify as eye witnesses to the production of the book, that the writer had no library in which to make researches and possessed no notes of investigation or reading previously done. All was written straight out of hand. And yet it is full of references to books in the British Museum and other great libraries, and every reference is correct. Either, then, we have, as to that book [referring to Isis Unveiled], a woman who was capable of storing in her memory a mass of facts, dates, numbers, titles, and subjects such as no other human being ever was capable of, or her claim to help from unseen beings is just.\" \n\nAfter Blavatsky's death, theosophists and others continued claiming to have met Morya or to have received communications from him. William Quan Judge, the leader of the American Section of the Theosophical Society, stated privately that he had received letters from Morya and other Adepts. Annie Besant, head of the European Section and co-head of the Esoteric Section with Judge, made public statements supporting the genuineness of those letters; but she later accused Judge of falsifying them, asserting that her suspicions of him were confirmed by the visitation of a Mahatma, presumably Master Morya, to whom she was linked. The ensuing controversy led to the break-up of the Society in 1895, but leaders in the increasingly fragmented movement continued making claims about having received communications and visitations from the Masters connected with the cause. Theosophical writings offered vivid descriptions of Morya, his role in the Brotherhood, and his past lives.\n\nMorya's earliest notable claimed incarnation is recorded by Annie Besant and C.W. Leadbeater (from, the source states, their research into the \"akashic records\" at the Theosophical Society headquarters in Adyar (Tamil Nadu), India conducted in the summer of 1910) as having been the Emperor of Atlantis in 220,000 BC, ruling from his palace in the capital city, the \"City of the Golden Gates\".\n\nAccording to the Ascended Masters teachings, some of the later incarnations that Morya is said to have had include:\n\n\nStudents of Ascended Master Activities believe that Morya ascended in 1898, becoming an Ascended Master and Chohan of the First Ray, and that his spiritual retreat is located at Darjeeling, India.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18651411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18651411", "title": "Norodom Ranariddh Party", "text": "Norodom Ranariddh Party\n\nThe Norodom Ranariddh Party (NRP, \"Kanakpak Norodom Ranariddh\") is a Cambodian political party created by Prince Norodom Ranariddh, who has left the Royalist FUNCINPEC party of which he was previously leader/chairman.\n\nA congress of people chose to change the name of their political party called Khmer National Front Party to the Norodom Ranariddh Party on 16 November 2006 and elected Prince Samdech Krom Preah Norodom Ranariddh as the president of NRP.\n\nIt was briefly known as the Nationalist Party from 2008 to 2010.\n\nThe party promotes various ideologies altogether. Firstly its conservative-right ideology promotes the preservation of Cambodia's \"cultural landmarks\" while improving the capital city \"Phnom Penh's master plan\" to mend \"buildings in the city in order to\" be an excellent \"modern city.\" The party also wants to keep the existence of the \" Khmer race and its culture, religion and language.\" The NRP wants to nationally stop the \"increase in the price of goods\" they will get rid of \"the monopoly on foreign good import\" and take away \"tariffs on\" the necessary foods Cambodia gets from other countries.\n\nOn the ideas it promotes in its left wing ideology it believes in making the \"minimum wages for factory workers\" become larger. The NRP would oppose the \"blocks of flats which have been constructed to poor technical standards\" particularly those with no necessary emergency systems.\nFinally the liberal part of this party's ideology is promoting freedom from the rulers of Cambodia who only think of \"power, money and themselves\" and because of that they would frighten Cambodian people by being a \"dictatorial\" and militaristic government. Therefore, NRP will oppose this and defend \"democracy\" and the \"rule of law\". Apart from that, finally with the party's position on the \"city's judicial systems\" it will \"reform\" it freeing it from any damaging misguidance so it can give its \"independence and fairness for the people.\"\n\nThe Norodom Ranariddh Party has created recently an alliance with three political parties called the Sam Rainsy Party, FUNCINPEC party and the Human Rights Party. Together they wanted the international community and Cambodia to oppose the Cambodian elections that were \"won\" on 27 July 2008 by the Cambodian People's Party because this alliance of four parties say that the CPP \"manipulated and rigged\" the elections.\n\nNow some time recently Prince Norodom Ranariddh had chosen to go and be in \"retirement from politics\" on Friday 3 October 2008. However he still will have influence on \"NRP policy\". While that's happening the party will \"appoint\" as \"acting president\" Chhim Siek Leng \"as its next leader.\"\n\nNorodom Ranariddh entered politics again on 11 December 2010, when the NRP (which had been known as the Nationalist Party after Norodom Ranariddh left) renamed itself again.\n\n"}
{"id": "3078844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3078844", "title": "On the Jews and Their Lies", "text": "On the Jews and Their Lies\n\nOn the Jews and Their Lies (; in modern spelling ) is a 65,000-word antisemitic treatise written in 1543 by the German Reformation leader Martin Luther.\n\nLuther's attitude toward the Jews took different forms during his lifetime. In his earlier period, until 1537 or not much earlier, he wanted to convert Jews to Lutheranism (Protestant Christianity), but failed. In his later period when he wrote this particular treatise, he denounced them and urged their persecution.\n\nIn the treatise, he argues that Jewish synagogues and schools be set on fire, their prayer books destroyed, rabbis forbidden to preach, homes burned, and property and money confiscated. They should be shown no mercy or kindness, afforded no legal protection, and \"these poisonous envenomed worms\" should be drafted into forced labor or expelled for all time. He also seems to advocate their murder, writing \"[W]e are at fault in not slaying them\".\n\nIn the treatise, Martin Luther describes Jews as a \"base, whoring people, that is, no people of God, and their boast of lineage, circumcision, and law must be accounted as filth\". Luther wrote that they are \"full of the devil's feces ... which they wallow in like swine\", and the synagogue is an \"incorrigible whore and an evil slut\".\n\nIn the first ten sections of the treatise, Luther expounds, at considerable length, upon his views concerning Jews and Judaism and how these compare to Protestants and Protestant Christianity. Following the exposition, Section XI of the treatise advises Protestants to carry out seven remedial actions. These are\n\nEarly in his life, Luther had argued that the Jews had been prevented from converting to Christianity by the proclamation of what he believed to be an impure gospel by the Catholic Church, and he believed they would respond favorably to the evangelical message if it were presented to them gently. He expressed concern for the poor conditions in which they were forced to live, and insisted that anyone denying that Jesus was born a Jew was committing heresy.\n\nLuther's first known comment about the Jews is in a letter written to Reverend Spalatin in 1514:\nIn 1519, Luther challenged the doctrine \"Servitus Judaeorum\" (\"Servitude of the Jews\"), established in \"Corpus Juris Civilis\" by Justinian I in 529. He wrote: \"Absurd theologians defend hatred for the Jews. ... What Jew would consent to enter our ranks when he sees the cruelty and enmity we wreak on them – that in our behavior towards them we less resemble Christians than beasts?\"\n\nIn his commentary on the \"Magnificat\", Luther is critical of the emphasis Judaism places on the Torah, the first five books of the Old Testament. He states that they \"undertook to keep the law by their own strength, and failed to learn from it their needy and cursed state\". Yet, he concludes that God's grace will continue for Jews as Abraham's descendants for all time, since they may always become Christians. \"We ought ... not to treat the Jews in so unkindly a spirit, for there are future Christians among them.\"\n\nIn his 1523 essay \"That Jesus Christ Was Born a Jew\", Luther condemned the inhuman treatment of the Jews and urged Christians to treat them kindly. Luther's fervent desire was that Jews would hear the gospel proclaimed clearly and be moved to convert to Christianity. Thus he argued:\n\nIn August 1536, Luther's prince, John Frederick, Elector of Saxony, issued a mandate that prohibited Jews from inhabiting, engaging in business in, or passing through his realm. An Alsatian shtadlan, Rabbi Josel of Rosheim, asked a reformer, Wolfgang Capito, to approach Luther in order to obtain an audience with the prince, but Luther refused every intercession. In response to Josel, Luther referred to his unsuccessful attempts to convert the Jews: \"I would willingly do my best for your people but I will not contribute to your [Jewish] obstinacy by my own kind actions. You must find another intermediary with my good lord.\" Heiko Oberman notes this event as significant in Luther's attitude toward the Jews: \"Even today this refusal is often judged to be the decisive turning point in Luther's career from friendliness to hostility toward the Jews\"; yet, Oberman contends that Luther would have denied any such \"turning point\". Rather he felt that Jews were to be treated in a \"friendly way\" in order to avoid placing unnecessary obstacles in their path to Christian conversion, a genuine concern of Luther.\n\nPaul Johnson writes that \"Luther was not content with verbal abuse. Even before he wrote his anti-Semitic pamphlet, he got Jews expelled from Saxony in 1537, and in the 1540s he drove them from many German towns; he tried unsuccessfully to get the elector to expel them from Brandenburg in 1543.\"\n\nMichael Berenbaum writes that Luther's reliance on the Bible as the sole source of Christian authority fed his later fury toward Jews over their rejection of Jesus as the messiah. For Luther, salvation depended on the belief that the belief Jesus was was the Son of God, a belief that adherents of Judaism do not share. Graham Noble writes that Luther wanted to save Jews, in his own terms, not exterminate them, but beneath his apparent reasonableness toward them, there was a \"biting intolerance\", which produced \"ever more furious demands for their conversion to his own brand of Christianity\". (Noble, 1–2) When they failed to convert, he turned on them.\n\nThe prevailing scholarly view since the Second World War is that the treatise exercised a major and persistent influence on Germany's attitude toward its Jewish citizens in the centuries between the Reformation and the Holocaust. Four hundred years after it was written, the Nazis displayed \"On the Jews and Their Lies\" during Nuremberg rallies, and the city of Nuremberg presented a first edition to Julius Streicher, editor of the Nazi newspaper \"Der Stürmer\", the newspaper describing it, on Streicher's first encounter with the treatise in 1937, as the most radically antisemitic tract ever published.\n\nAgainst this view, theologian Johannes Wallmann writes that the treatise had no continuity of influence in Germany, and was in fact largely ignored during the 18th and 19th centuries. Hans Hillerbrand argues that to focus on Luther's role in the development of German antisemitism is to underestimate the \"larger peculiarities of German history\".\n\nSince the 1980s, some Lutheran church bodies have formally denounced and dissociated themselves from Luther's vitriol about the Jews. In November 1998, on the 60th anniversary of , the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Bavaria issued a statement: \"It is imperative for the Lutheran Church, which knows itself to be indebted to the work and tradition of Martin Luther, to take seriously also his anti-Jewish utterances, to acknowledge their theological function, and to reflect on their consequences. It has to distance itself from every [expression of] anti-Judaism in Lutheran theology.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22589", "title": "Oracle", "text": "Oracle\n\nIn classical antiquity, an oracle was a person or agency considered to provide wise and insightful counsel or prophetic predictions or precognition of the future, inspired by the gods. As such it is a form of divination.\n\nThe word \"oracle\" comes from the Latin verb \"ōrāre\", \"to speak\" and properly refers to the priest or priestess uttering the prediction. In extended use, \"oracle\" may also refer to the \"site of the oracle\", and to the oracular utterances themselves, called \"khrēsmē\" (χρησμοί) in Greek.\n\nOracles were thought to be portals through which the gods spoke directly to people. In this sense they were different from \"seers\" (\"manteis\", μάντεις) who interpreted signs sent by the gods through bird signs, animal entrails, and other various methods.\n\nThe most important oracles of Greek antiquity were Pythia, priestess to Apollo at Delphi, and the oracle of Dione and Zeus at Dodona in Epirus. Other oracles of Apollo were located at Didyma and Mallus on the coast of Anatolia, at Corinth and Bassae in the Peloponnese, and at the islands of Delos and Aegina in the Aegean Sea.\n\nThe Sibylline Oracles are a collection of oracular utterances written in Greek hexameters ascribed to the Sibyls, prophetesses who uttered divine revelations in frenzied states.\n\nWalter Burkert observes that \"Frenzied women from whose lips the god speaks\" are recorded in the Near East as in Mari in the second millennium BC and in Assyria in the first millennium BC. In Egypt the goddess Wadjet (eye of the moon) was depicted as a snake-headed woman or a woman with two snake-heads. Her oracle was in the renowned temple in Per-Wadjet (Greek name Buto). The oracle of Wadjet may have been the source for the oracular tradition which spread from Egypt to Greece. Evans linked Wadjet with the \"Minoan Snake Goddess\".\n\nAt the oracle of Dodona she is called Diōnē (the feminine form of \"Diós\", genitive of \"PDyaeus\"; or of \"dīos\", \"godly\", literally \"heavenly\"), who represents the earth-fertile soil, probably the chief female goddess of the proto-Indo-European pantheon. Python, daughter (or son) of Gaia was the earth dragon of Delphi represented as a serpent and became the chthonic deity, enemy of Apollo, who slew her and possessed the oracle.\n\nThe Pythia was the mouthpiece of the oracles of the god Apollo, and was also known as the Oracle of Delphi.\n\nThe Pythia was not conceived to be infallible and in fact, according to Sourvinou-Inwood in \"What is Polis Religion?\", the ancient Greeks were aware of this and concluded the unknowability of the divine. In this way, the ‘revelations’ of the Oracles were not seen as ‘objective’ truth (as they consulted many) [see: Hyp. 4. 14-15]. The Pythia gave prophecies only on the seventh day of each month, seven being the number most associated with Apollo, during the nine warmer months of the year; thus, Delphi was the major source of divination for the ancient Greeks. Many wealthy individuals bypassed the hordes of people attempting a consultation by making additional animal sacrifices to please the oracle lest their request go unanswered. As a result, seers were the main source of everyday divination.\n\nThe temple was changed to a centre for the worship of Apollo during the classical period of Greece and priests were added to the temple organization—although the tradition regarding prophecy remained unchanged—and the priestesses continued to provide the services of the oracle exclusively. It is from this institution that the English word, oracle, is derived.\n\nThe Delphic Oracle exerted considerable influence throughout Hellenic culture. Distinctively, this female was essentially the highest authority both civilly and religiously in male-dominated ancient Greece. She responded to the questions of citizens, foreigners, kings, and philosophers on issues of political impact, war, duty, crime, family, laws—even personal issues.\n\nThe semi-Hellenic countries around the Greek world, such as Lydia, Caria, and even Egypt also respected her and came to Delphi as supplicants.\n\nCroesus, king of Lydia beginning in 560 B.C., tested the oracles of the world to discover which gave the most accurate prophecies. He sent out emissaries to seven sites who were all to ask the oracles on the same day what the king was doing at that very moment. Croesus proclaimed the oracle at Delphi to be the most accurate, who correctly reported that the king was making a lamb-and-tortoise stew, and so he graced her with a magnitude of precious gifts. He then consulted Delphi before attacking Persia, and according to Herodotus was advised: \"If you cross the river, a great empire will be destroyed\". Believing the response favourable, Croesus attacked, but it was his own empire that ultimately was destroyed by the Persians.\n\nShe allegedly also proclaimed that there was no man wiser than Socrates, to which Socrates said that, if so, this was because he alone was aware of his own ignorance. After this confrontation, Socrates dedicated his life to a search for knowledge that was one of the founding events of western philosophy. He claimed that she was \"an essential guide to personal and state development.\" This Oracle's last recorded response was given in 362 AD, to Julian the Apostate.\n\nThe oracle's powers were highly sought after and never doubted. Any inconsistencies between prophecies and events were dismissed as failure to correctly interpret the responses, not an error of the oracle. Very often prophecies were worded ambiguously, so as to cover all contingencies – especially so \"ex post facto\". One famous such response to a query about participation in a military campaign was \"You will go you will return never in war will you perish\". This gives the recipient liberty to place a comma before or after the word \"never\", thus covering both possible outcomes. Another was the response to the Athenians when the vast army of king Xerxes I was approaching Athens with the intent of razing the city to the ground. \"Only the wooden palisades may save you\", answered the oracle, probably aware that there was sentiment for sailing to the safety of southern Italy and re-establishing Athens there. Some thought that it was a recommendation to fortify the Acropolis with a wooden fence and make a stand there. Others, Themistocles among them, said the oracle was clearly for fighting at sea, the metaphor intended to mean war ships. Others still insisted that their case was so hopeless that they should board every ship available and flee to Italy, where they would be safe beyond any doubt. In the event, variations of all three interpretations were attempted: some barricaded the Acropolis, the civilian population was evacuated over sea to nearby Salamis Island and to Troizen, and the war fleet fought victoriously at Salamis Bay. Should utter destruction have happened, it could always be claimed that the oracle had called for fleeing to Italy after all.\n\nDodona was another oracle devoted to the Mother Goddess identified at other sites with Rhea or Gaia, but here called Dione. The shrine of Dodona was the oldest Hellenic oracle, according to the fifth-century historian Herodotus and in fact dates to pre-Hellenic times, perhaps as early as the second millennium BC when the tradition probably spread from Egypt. Zeus displaced the Mother goddess and assimilated her as Aphrodite.\n\nIt became the second most important oracle in ancient Greece, which later was dedicated to Zeus and to Heracles during the classical period of Greece. At Dodona Zeus was worshipped as Zeus Naios or Naos (god of springs Naiads, from a spring which existed under the oak), and Zeus Bouleos (cancellor). Priestesses and priests interpreted the rustling of the oak leaves to determine the correct actions to be taken. The oracle was shared by Dione and Zeus.\n\nTrophonius was an oracle at Lebadea of Boeotia devoted to the chthonian Zeus Trophonius. Trophonius is derived from the Greek word \"trepho\" (nourish) and he was a Greek hero, or demon or god. Demeter-Europa was his nurse. Europa (in Greek: broad-eyes) was a Phoenician princess whom Zeus, having transformed himself into a white bull, abducted and carried to Creta, and is equated with Astarte as a moon goddess by ancient sources. Some scholars connect Astarte with the Minoan snake goddess, whose cult as Aphrodite spread from Creta to Greece.\n\nNear the Menestheus's port or Menesthei Portus (), modern El Puerto de Santa María, Spain, was the Oracle of Menestheus (), to whom, also, the inhabitants of Gades offered sacrifices.\n\nThe term \"oracle\" is also applied in modern English to parallel institutions of divination in other cultures.\nSpecifically, it is used in the context of Christianity for the concept of divine revelation, and in the context of Judaism for the Urim and Thummim breastplate, and in general any utterance considered prophetic.\n\nIn China, oracle bones were used for divination in the late Shang dynasty, (c. 1600–1046 BC). Diviners applied heat to these bones, usually ox scapulae or tortoise plastrons, and interpreted the resulting cracks.\n\nA different divining method, using the stalks of the yarrow plant, was practiced in the subsequent Zhou dynasty (1046–256 BC). Around the late 9th century BC, the divination system was recorded in the \"I Ching\", or \"Book of Changes\", a collection of linear signs used as oracles. In addition to its oracular power, the \"I Ching\" has had a major influence on the philosophy, literature and statecraft of China since the Zhou period.\n\nIn Celtic polytheism, divination was performed by the priestly caste, either the druids or the vates. This is reflected in the role of \"seers\" in Dark Age Wales (\"dryw\") and Ireland (\"fáith\").\n\nIn ancient India, the oracle was known as Akashwani or Ashareera vani (a person without body or unseen) or Asariri (Tamil), literally meaning \"voice from the sky\" and was related to the message of a god. Oracles played key roles in many of the major incidents of the epics Mahabharata and Ramayana. An example is that Kamsa (or Kansa), the evil uncle of lord Krishna, was informed by an oracle that the eighth son of his sister Devaki would kill him. However, there are no references in any Indian literature of the oracle being a specific person.\n\nThere are still a few existing and publicly accessible oracles in India. Examples include the Copper Oracle (Tamrapothi) and Silver Oracle (Rupapothi) of Shri Achyutanda Das. These oracles are accessible to everyone at Pothi Ashram located in Kakatpur, Odisha, India.\n\nIn Tibet, oracles have played, and continue to play, an important part in religion and government. The word \"oracle\" is used by Tibetans to refer to the spirit that enters those men and women who act as media between the natural and the spiritual realms. The media are, therefore, known as \"kuten\", which literally means, \"the physical basis\".\n\nThe Dalai Lama, who lives in exile in northern India, still consults an oracle known as the \"Nechung Oracle\", which is considered the official state oracle of the government of Tibet. The Dalai Lama has according to centuries-old custom, consulted the Nechung Oracle during the new year festivities of Losar. Nechung and Gadhong are the primary oracles currently consulted; former oracles such as Karmashar and Darpoling are no longer active in exile. The Gadhong oracle has died leaving Nechung to be the only primary oracle. Another oracle the Dalai Lama consults is the \"Tenma Oracle\", for which a young Tibetan woman by the name of Khandro La is the medium for the mountain goddesses Tseringma along with the other 11 goddesses. The Dalai Lama gives a complete description of the process of trance and spirit possession in his book \"Freedom in Exile\".\nDorje Shugden oracles were once consulted by the Dalai Lamas until the 14th Dalai Lama banned the practice, even though he consulted Dorje Shugden for advice to escape and was successful in it. Due to the ban, many of the abbots that were worshippers of Dorje Shugden have been forced to go against the Dalai Lama.\n\nIn the migration myth of the Mexitin, i.e., the early Aztecs, a mummy-bundle (perhaps an effigy) carried by four priests directed the trek away from the cave of origins by giving oracles. An oracle led to the foundation of Mexico-Tenochtitlan. The Yucatec Mayas knew oracle priests or \"chilanes\", literally 'mouthpieces' of the deity. Their written repositories of traditional knowledge, the Books of Chilam Balam, were all ascribed to one famous oracle priest who correctly had predicted the coming of the Spaniards and its associated disasters.\n\nThe Igbo people of southeastern Nigeria in Africa have a long tradition of using oracles. In Igbo villages, oracles were usually female priestesses to a particular deity, usually dwelling in a cave or other secluded location away from urban areas, and, much as the oracles of ancient Greece, would deliver prophecies in an ecstatic state to visitors seeking advice. Two of their ancient oracles became especially famous during the pre-colonial period: the Agbala oracle at Awka and the Chukwu oracle at Arochukwu. Though the vast majority of Igbos today are Christian, many of them still use oracles.\n\nAmongst the related Yoruba peoples of the same country, the Babalawos (and their female counterparts, the Iyanifas) serve collectively as the principal aspects of the tribe's World-famous Ifa divination system. Due to this, they customarily officiate at a great many of its traditional and religious ceremonies.\n\nIn Norse mythology, Odin took the severed head of the god Mimir to Asgard for consultation as an oracle. The \"Havamal\" and other sources relate the sacrifice of Odin for the oracular Runes whereby he lost an eye (external sight) and won wisdom (internal sight; insight).\n\nIn Hawaii, oracles were found at certain heiau, Hawaiian temples. These oracles were found in towers covered in white kapa cloth made from plant fibres. In here, priests received the will of gods. These towers were called \"'Anu'u.\" An example of this can be found at Ahu'ena heiau in Kona.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31622198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31622198", "title": "Our Lady of Andacollo", "text": "Our Lady of Andacollo\n\nOur Lady of Andacollo (), also known as the Virgin of Andacollo (), is a celebrated Catholic statue of the Virgin Mary located in the town of Andacollo, in the Coquimbo Region in the north of Chile. The carving is the centre of the annual \"Fiesta Grande de la Virgen\" (Great Festival of the Virgin) that draws thousands of pilgrims from around the world in December.\nThe small wooden statue of the Virgin Mary is said to have been found by a local indigenous person near the mines of Andacollo at the beginning of the conquest period. There are many explanations for how the statue came to be where it was found. The most accepted holds that it was left there by a Spanish soldier or by priests who had fled with the statue after the 1549 attack on the city of La Serena by the indigenous population.\nAfter four centuries of veneration in Andacollo and devotion coming from beyond Chilean borders, Cardinal Mariano Rampolla del Tindaro decreed on 15 June 1899, at the command of Pope Leo XIII, that the statue be given a Canonical coronation The decree was implemented by the Claretians, who took on stewardship of the sanctuary in 1900, and the crown and jewels were paid for in large part by local fundraising. The statue of Our Lady of Andacollo was crowned on 26 December 1901.\n\nFour churches have been built for the Virgin over the years. The first was constructed in the 16th century and the second in the 17th century, but this only lasted until 1776. The third church, constructed in the 18th century after undergoing numerous repairs for earthquake damage, is where the image of the Virgin now resides for most of the year. Finally, between 1873 and 1893, a new church was constructed which was declared a minor basilica by Pope John Paul II, the Basilica of Our Lady of Andacollo.\n\nThe town of Andacollo is visited every year by thousands of pilgrims from Chile and abroad, the majority of whom come for the \"Fiesta Grande de la Virgen\" (Great Festival of the Virgin) which takes place in December. The \"Fiesta Grande\", filled with colour, dancing and music performed by numerous confraternities and dance groups, is held at the Basilica of Our Lady of Andacollo. It starts each year on December 23 and lasts for at least five days, during which the statue is dressed in her crown and special clothes embroidered with gold, then carried in a solemn procession to the basilica accompanied by dance groups and pilgrims.\n\nThere is also a smaller festival, the \"Fiesta Chica\" (“small festival”), which takes place on the first Sunday of October. \n\n"}
{"id": "1022067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1022067", "title": "Pablo Amaringo", "text": "Pablo Amaringo\n\nPablo Cesar Amaringo Shuña (1943 – 16 November 2009) was a Peruvian artist, renowned for his intricate, colourful depictions of his visions from drinking the entheogenic plant brew ayahuasca. He was first brought to the West's attention by Dennis McKenna and Luis Eduardo Luna, who met Pablo in Pucallpa while traveling during work on an ethnobotanical project. Pablo worked as a vegetalista, a shaman in the mestizo tradition of healing, for many years; up to his death, he painted, helped run the Usko-Ayar school of painting, and supervised ayahuasca retreats.\n\nAmaringo was born the seventh of thirteen children in 1943 in Puerto Libertad, a small settlement on the banks of a tributary of the Ucayali River. When Amaringo was a boy, his family were reduced to extreme poverty after some years of relative prosperity. As a result, they moved to Pucallpa where Amaringo attended school for just two years before he was forced to find work to help support the family. When he was 17 Amaringo became extremely ill, nearly dying from severe heart problems. For over two years he could not work. He believes he was eventually cured due to a local healer.\n\nIt was while recovering from this illness that he started to draw and paint for the first time. Amaringo began making drawings with pencil and shading with soot from lamps. From a friend employed in a car factory he got permatex, a blue substance with which he coloured the drawings. He had no money for paper so he used cardboard boxes. Sometimes he took a little lipstick and other cosmetics from his sisters. Later he used ink, watercolours and then a friend gave him six tubes of oil paint.\n\nSoon Amaringo began to make money from portraits, but lost his market when photographers began to colour black-green-and-white prints. With the discovery of his new artistic talent Amaringo's career as a healer also received exposure for all wonderful things. For seven years, 1970–76, he travelled extensively in the region acting as a traditional healer. Until one fatal day when he couldn't heal any more because he cared more about art than his fellows around him.\n\nIn 1977, Pablo abandoned his vocation as a shaman. He warns: \"Ayahuasca is not something to play. It can even kill, not because it is toxic in itself, but because the body may not be able to withstand the spiritual realm, the vibrations of the spiritual world. \"\n\nHe devoted himself to painting until becoming an art teacher at his school Usko Ayar (Usko in Quechua means \"spiritual\", and Ayar \"prince\"), where the students freely learned Pablo's painting technique.\n\nWhen Luna and McKenna met Amaringo in 1985 he was living in poverty, barely surviving by teaching English to young people from his home and selling the odd painting to passing tourists. Luna suggested he paint some of his visions, a project which became the basis of a co-authored book, \"Ayahuasca Visions: The Religious Iconography of a Peruvian Shaman\" (North Atlantic Books 1999).\n\nAmaringo occasionally gave interviews in the years following the book's publication, and later penned the preface for \"Plant Spirit Shamanism: Traditional Techniques for Healing the Soul\" (Destiny Books 2006). His artwork was featured in Graham Hancock's book \"Supernatural\". Amaringo also appeared in \"The Shaman & Ayahuasca: Journeys to Sacred Realms\" (2010), Michael Wiese's documentary film about ayahuasca.\n\nAfter a protracted illness, Amaringo died on 16 November 2009.\n\nUntil shortly before his death, Amaringo worked as a painter, reworking the visions he experienced during his shamanic practice, and at the same time teaching young people to paint at his art school, in Pucallpa, where he worked as a director and founder along with Luis Eduardo Luna in 1988.\n\nThis school is also dedicated to the teaching of the preservation of the ecosystems of the Amazonian area, work for which, during the Earth Conference that was held in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, Pablo Amaringo was awarded the Global 500 Roll of Honor, granted by the United Nations environmental preservation program, for the work carried out by the institution led by him, and for the achievements made during these years of work. \n\nThese are the objectives of the school: to foster in the youth, through artistic education, understanding and respect for the Amazonian environment, strengthen their cultural identity so that they can improve their living conditions.\n\nGenerate a great artistic documentation of the flora, fauna and cultural tradition of the Peruvian Amazon that can be used in scientific and popular publications and in the development of ethnobotanical gardens, near the two largest cities of the Peruvian Amazon (Pucallpa and Iquitos), and to preserve and promote traditional knowledge of useful and medicinal plants. To help develop the school as a cultural center, very necessary, where young people will have the opportunity to learn not only painting, but also theater, traditional dances and music, pottery and other crafts, to disseminate knowledge locally as an international- about the Amazonian nature, art and culture.\n\nBefore dying, he was working on the paintings of angels, as well as paintings documenting the flora and fauna of Peru.\n\nPablo's work can be seen in the documentary film \"Ayahuasca Nature's Greatest Gift\" which is part of a film series on shamanism, wisdom, consciousness and the medicinal plant Ayahuasca entitled The Path of the Sun.\n\nAyahuasca Visions: The Religious Iconography of a Peruvian Shaman by Luis Eduardo Luna\n\n\n"}
{"id": "987549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=987549", "title": "Padraic Colum", "text": "Padraic Colum\n\nPadraic Colum (8 December 1881 – 11 January 1972) was an Irish poet, novelist, dramatist, biographer, playwright, children's author and collector of folklore. He was one of the leading figures of the Irish Literary Revival.\n\nColum was born Patrick Columb in a County Longford workhouse, where his father worked. He was the first of eight children born to Patrick and Susan Columb. When the father lost his job in 1889, he moved to the United States to participate in the Colorado gold rush. Padraic and his mother and siblings remained in Ireland. When the father returned in 1892, the family moved to Glasthule, near Dublin, where his father was employed as Assistant Manager at Sandycove and Glasthule railway station. His son attended the local national school.\n\nWhen Susan Columb died in 1897, the family was temporarily split up. Padraic (as he would be known) and one brother remained in Dublin, while their father and remaining children moved back to Longford. Colum finished school the following year and at the age of seventeen, he passed an exam for and was awarded a clerkship in the Irish Railway Clearing House. He stayed in this job until 1903.\n\nDuring this period, Colum started to write and met a number of the leading Irish writers of the time, including W. B. Yeats, Lady Gregory and Æ. He also joined the Gaelic League and was a member of the first board of the Abbey Theatre. He became a regular user of the National Library of Ireland, where he met James Joyce and the two became lifelong friends. During the riots caused by the Abbey Theatre's production of \"The Playboy of the Western World\", Padraic Colum's father, Patrick Columb, was one of the protestors. Padraic himself was not engaged in the protests, although he did pay his father's fine afterwards.\n\nHe collected Irish folk songs, and sometimes rewrote them almost in their entirety, including the famous \"She Moved Through the Fair\". Colum based his poem on one surviving line, while his collaborator, the musicologist Herbert Hughes noted the tune. He was awarded a five-year scholarship by a wealthy American benefactor, Thomas Hughes Kelly. He used it to read, study and write. He did not attend University College Dublin, or any other University as a student.\n\nHe was awarded a prize by Cumann na nGaedheal for his anti-enlistment play, \"The Saxon Shillin\"'. Through his plays he became involved with the National Theatre Society and became involved in the founding of the Abbey Theatre, writing several of its early productions. His first play, \"Broken Soil\" (revised as The Fiddler's House) (1903) was performed by W. G. Fay's Irish National Dramatic Company. \"The Land\" (1905), was one of that theatre's first great public successes. He wrote another important play for the Abbey named \"Thomas Muskerry\" (1910).\n\nHis earliest published poems appeared in \"The United Irishman\", a paper edited by Arthur Griffith. His first book, \"Wild Earth\" (1907) collected many of these poems and was dedicated to Æ. He published several poems in Arthur Griffith's paper, \"The United Irishman\" this time, with \"The Poor Scholar\" bringing him to the attention of WB Yeats. He became a friend of Yeats and Lady Gregory. In 1908, he wrote an introduction to the Everyman's Library edition of Edgar Allan Poe's \"Tales of Mystery and Imagination\".\n\nIn 1911, with Mary Gunning Maguire, a student from UCD, and David Houston and Thomas MacDonagh, he founded the short-lived literary journal \"The Irish Review\", which published work by Yeats, George Moore, Oliver St John Gogarty, and many other leading Revival figures.\n\nIn 1912 he married Maguire. Padraic taught at Pádraig Pearse's experimental school, Scoil Éanna in Rathfarnham, County Dublin and Mary Maguire taught at the girls' school, Scoil Íde or St. Ita's, which was set up in Cullenswood House, Ranelagh, Dublin, once Scoil Éanna had moved to Rathfarnham. At first the couple lived in the Dublin suburb of Donnybrook, where they held a regular Tuesday literary salon. They then moved to Howth, a small fishing village just to the north of the capital. In 1914, they travelled to the US for what was intended to be a visit of a few months but lasted most the rest of their lives.\n\nIn America, Colum took up children's writing and published a number of collections of stories for children, beginning with \"The King of Ireland's Son\" (1916). This book came about when Colum started translating an Irish folk tale from Gaelic because he did not want to forget the language. After it was published in the New York Tribune, Hungarian Illustrator Willy Pogany suggested the possibility of a book collaboration, so Colum wove the folktale into a long, epic story. Three of his books for children were awarded retrospective citations for the Newbery Honor. A contract for children's literature with Macmillan Publishers made him financially secure for the rest of his life. Some other books he wrote are \"The Adventure of Odysseus\" (1918) and \"The Children of Odin\" (1920). These works are important for bringing classical literature to children.\n\nIn 1922 he was commissioned to write versions of Hawaiian folklore for young people. This resulted in the publication of three volumes of his versions of tales from the islands. At the suggestion of Dr Pádraic Whyte (School of English, Trinity College Dublin) a first edition of the first volume (\"At the Gateways of the Day\") was presented to US president Barack Obama by Taoiseach Enda Kenny on the occasion of his visit to Dublin, Ireland on 23 May 2011. Colum also started writing novels. These include \"Castle Conquer\" (1923) and \"The Flying Swans\" (1937). The Colums spent the years from 1930 to 1933 living in Paris and Nice, where Padraic renewed his friendship with James Joyce and became involved in the transcription of \"Finnegans Wake\".\n\nAfter their time in France, the couple moved to New York City, where they did some teaching at Columbia University and CCNY. Colum was a prolific author and published a total of 61 books, not counting his plays. He adopted the form of Noh drama in his later plays.\n\nWhile in New York, he wrote the screenplay for the 1954 stop-motion animated film . It was his only screenplay. \n\nMary died in 1957 and Padraic finished \"Our Friend James Joyce\", which they had worked on together. It was published in 1958. Colum divided his later years between the United States and Ireland. In 1961 the Catholic Library Association awarded him the Regina Medal. He died in Enfield, Connecticut, age 90, and was buried in St. Fintan's Cemetery, Sutton.\n\nIn 1965, Colum sold the notebooks, manuscripts, galley proofs, and letters that were in his apartments in New York and Dublin to the Binghamton University Libraries. He wished to make whatever resources he could available to scholars of Irish literature and history.\n\nAsked how to say his name, he told \"The Literary Digest\" the last name was the same as the word \"column\". \"In my first name, the first \"a\" has the sound of \"au\". The ordinary pronunciation in Irish is \"pau'drig\".\"\n\n\nAs screenwriter:\n\nAs editor:\n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n\n"}
{"id": "25912785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25912785", "title": "Psilocybe jacobsii", "text": "Psilocybe jacobsii\n\nPsilocybe jacobsii is a species of mushroom in the Strophariaceae family, collected and recorded by James Q. Jacobs near Huatla de Jimenez in the Mazatec region of Oaxaca state, Mexico. Dr. Gastón Guzmán studied the microscopic features and published the new species in the world monograph, The Genus Psilocybe. The mushroom may contain the psychoactive compounds found in the genus Psilocybe, including psilocybin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "489997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=489997", "title": "Raskol", "text": "Raskol\n\nRaskol (, , meaning \"split\" or \"schism\") was the splitting of the Russian Orthodox Church into an official church and the Old Believers movement in the mid-17th century. It was triggered by the reforms of Patriarch Nikon in 1653, which aimed to establish uniformity between Greek and Russian church practices.\n\nThe members of an influential circle called the Zealots of Piety (Russian: Кружок ревнителей благочестия \"Kruzhok revnitelei blagochestiya\") stood for purification of Russian Orthodox faith. They strove to reform Muscovite society, bringing it into closer accordance with Christian values and to improve church practices. As a consequence, they also were engaged in the removal of alternative versions and correction of divine service books. The most influential members of this circle were Archpriests Avvakum, Ivan Neronov, Stephan Vonifatiyev, Fyodor Rtishchev and, when still Archbishop of Novgorod, Nikon himself, the future Patriarch.\n\nWith the support from the Russian Tsar Alexei Mikhailovich, Patriarch Nikon began the process of correction of the Russian divine service books in accordance with their modern Greek counterparts and changed some of the rituals (the two-finger sign of the cross was replaced by the one with three fingers, \"hallelujah\" was to be pronounced three times instead of two etc.). These innovations met with resistance from both the clergy and the people, who disputed the legitimacy and correctness of these reforms, referring to theological traditions and Eastern Orthodox ecclesiastic rules. Ignoring these protests, the reforms were approved by the church sobors in 1654–1655. In 1653–1656, the Print Yard under Epifany Slavinetsky began to produce corrected versions of newly translated divine service books.\n\nA traditional, widespread view of these reforms is that they only affected the external ritualistic side of the Russian Orthodox faith and that these changes were deemed a major event by the religious Russian people. However, these reforms, apart from their arbitrariness, established radically different relations between the church and the faithful. It soon became obvious that Nikon had used this reform for the purpose of centralization of the church and strengthening of his own authority. Nikon's forcible introduction of the new divine service books and rituals caused a major estrangement between the Zealots of Piety and Nikon. Some of its members stood up for the old faith and opposed the reforms and patriarch's actions.\n\nAvvakum and Daniel petitioned to the tsar in favour of the two-finger sign of the cross and bows during divine services and sermons. Then, they tried to prove to the clergy that the correction of the books in accordance with the Greek standards profaned the pure faith because the Greek Church had deviated from the \"ancient piety\" and had been printing its divine service books in Catholic print houses and that they had been exposed to Roman Catholic influences. Ivan Neronov spoke against the strengthening of patriarch's authority and demanded democratization of ecclesiastic management. This conflict between Nikon and defenders of the old faith took a turn for the worse and soon Avvakum, Ivan Neronov and others would be persecuted and eventually executed in 1682.\n\nThe case brought by the defenders of the old faith found many supporters among different strata of the Russian society, which would give birth to the Raskol movement. A part of the old faith low-ranking clergy protested against the increase of feudal oppression, coming from the church leaders. Some members of the high-ranking clergy joined the Raskol movement due to their discontent over Nikon's aspirations and the arbitrariness of his church reforms.\n\nSome of them, such as Bishop Paul of Kolomna, Archbishop Alexander of Vyatka (as well as a number of monasteries, such as the famous Solovetsky Monastery), stood up for the old faith; bishop Paul was eventually executed for his loyalty to the old rites. Boyarynya Feodosiya Morozova, her sister Princess Urusova, and some other courtiers openly supported or secretly sympathized with the defenders of the old faith. \n\nThe unification of such heterogeneous forces against what had become \"the official church\" could probably be explained by the somewhat contradictory ideology of the Raskol movement. A certain idealization and conservation of traditional values and old traditions, a critical attitude towards innovations, conservation of national originality and acceptance (by radical elements) of martyrdom in the name of the old faith as the only way towards salvation were intertwined with criticism of feudalism and serfdom. Different social strata were attracted to different sides of this ideology.\n\nThe most radical apologists of the Raskol preached about approaching Armageddon and coming of the Antichrist, Tsar's and patriarch's worshiping of Satan, which ideas would find a broad response among the Russian people, sympathizing with the ideology of these most radical apologetes. The Raskol movement thus became a vanguard of the conservative and at the same time democratic opposition.\n\nThe Raskol movement gained in strength after the church sobor in 1666–67, which had anathemized the defenders of the old faith as heretics and made decisions with regards to their punishment. Especially members of the low-ranking clergy, who had severed their relations with the church, became the leaders of the opposition. Propagation of the split with the church in the name of preservation of the Orthodox faith as it had existed until the reforms was the main postulate of their ideology. The most dramatic manifestations of the Raskol included the practice of the so-called \"ognenniye kreshcheniya\" (огненные крещения, or baptism by fire), or self-immolation, practiced by the most radical elements in the Old Believers' movement, who thought that the end of the world was near. \nThe Old Believers would soon split into different denominations, the Popovtsy and the Bespopovtsy. Attracted to the preachings of the Raskol ideologists, many posad people, mainly peasants, craftsmen and cossacks fled to the dense forests of Northern Russia and Volga region, southern borders of Russia, Siberia, and even abroad, where they would organize their own obshchinas. This was a mass exodus of common Russian people, who had refused to follow the new ecclesiastic rituals. In 1681, the government noted an increase among the \"enemies of the church\", especially in Siberia. With active support from the Russian Orthodox Church, it began to persecute the so-called \"raskolniki\" (раскольники), i.e., \"schism-makers\". \n\nIn the 1670s–1680s, the exposure of certain social vices in the Russian society gained special importance in the Raskol ideology. Some of the Raskol apologetes, such as Avvakum and his brothers-in-exile at the Pustozyorsk prison, tended to justify some of the uprisings, interpreting them as God's punishment of the ecclesiastic and tsarist authorities for their actions. Some of the supporters of the Old Believers took part in Stepan Razin's rebellion in 1670–1671, although this uprising is not regarded as an Old Believers' rebellion and Stenka Razin himself had strongly antiecclesiastic views. The supporters of the old faith played an important role in the Moscow uprising of 1682. Many of the members of the old faith migrated west, seeking refuge in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, which allowed them to practice their faith freely .\n\nIn the late 17th – early 18th century, the most radical elements of the Raskol movement went into recession after it had become obvious that the reforms could not be reversed. The internal policy of Peter the Great eased the persecution of the Old Believers. The Tsar, however, did impose higher taxes on them. During the reign of Cathеrine the Great, Old Believers who had fled abroad were even encouraged to return to their motherland. However, the position of Old Believers in Russia remained illegal until 1905.\nThe Raskol (schism) still exists, and with it a certain antagonism between the Russian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate and the Old Believers, although on an official level both sides have agreed on a peaceful coexistence. From an ecclesiastic and theological point of view the Raskol remains a highly controversial question and one of the most tragic episodes of Russian history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29160860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29160860", "title": "Ratu Bagus", "text": "Ratu Bagus\n\nRatu Bagus (born I Ketut Widnya, November 1949) is a Balinese guru who developed the technique of Bio-energy Shaking Meditation. He is said to transmit healing energy through his touch and picture, which induces spontaneous shaking and laughing in the recipient, releasing them of mental, physical, emotional and spiritual blocks. By training in Bio-energy Shaking Meditation, many people claim to have overcome alcohol and drug dependency, and to have healed many kinds of illnesses and tumours.\n\nRatu Bagus, which means 'Good King', was born into a poor family of nine children. As a young man his ambition was to become soldier as he was drawn to a disciplined way of life. However, after several unsuccessful attempts to join the army, he moved to Jakarta where he became a private officer at a transportation firm and later back to Bali where he became a government officer.\n\nAfter many years he felt the need to be closer to nature and decided to become a farmer on a plantation at the base of the sacred Mount Agung. As time went by his spiritual aspirations intensified and he began meditating regularly at various sacred sites within Bali. Then one day he experienced a revelation on the slopes of Mount Agung, which left him feeling that his mission was now to help the suffering of humanity. Soon after this he began to form his ashram.\n\nRatu’s following in the West has steadily grown and shaking groups now exist all over Europe and Australia.\n"}
{"id": "10087932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10087932", "title": "Religion in Sweden", "text": "Religion in Sweden\n\nReligion in Sweden is diversified. Christianity was the religion of virtually all of the Swedish population from the 12th to the early 20th century, but it has rapidly declined throughout the late 20th and early 21st century. In 2015, legally registered Christians comprised 69.9% of the total population.\n\nThe Lutheran Church of Sweden — which was the state religion until 2000 — has a registered membership of 6.0 million Swedish citizens as of 2017, equal to 59.3% of the total population. One reason for the high membership might be the fact that until 1996 all newborns with at least one parent being a member of the Church of Sweden were also registered as members of the church. Yet the membership is declining rapidly, about 1% each year, for the most recent years even 2%, falling from 95% in 1970 and 85% in 2000.\n\nPrior to their Christianisation that became complete around the 12th century, the Swedes practised forms of Norse religion. At first they became part of the Catholic Church; then, from the 1530s, Sweden switched to Lutheranism as part of the Protestant Reformation which converted most of Germanic Europe; the Church of Sweden was formed and remained the official religion of the Christian state until the turn of the 21st century. The 21st century brought with itself a rapid decline of Christianity overall, the disestablishment of the Church of Sweden, and the modest growth of other religions, often brought by waves of immigration from outside the country. These last include Islam, Catholicism, Orthodox Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism and other Eastern religions.\n\nBefore the 11th century, Swedes practised Norse religion, worshipping a variety of Germanic deities. An important religious centre was the Temple at Uppsala. The shape and location of this temple is sparsely documented, but it is referenced in the Norse sagas and Saxo Grammaticus' \"Gesta Danorum\", and is also described by Adam of Bremen. It was probably destroyed by King Ingold I in 1087 during the last known battle between the pagans and the Christians.\n\nWhile Norse religion was officially abandoned with the Christianization of Scandinavia, belief in many spirits of Norse mythology such as tomtar, trolls, elves and dwarves lived on for a long time in Scandinavian folklore.\n\nThe oldest evidence of Christian burial sites in Sweden are dated to the 6th century, but they are very few in number. The earliest documented campaign to Christianise the Swedes was made by the monk Ansgar (801–865). Making his first visit to Birka in 828–829, he was granted permission to build a church. In 831, he returned home and became Archbishop of Hamburg-Bremen, with responsibility for Christianity in the north. Around 850, he came back to Birka, where the original congregation had been shattered. Ansgar tried to reestablish it, but it only lasted a few years.\n\nChristianity first gained a hold in Västergötland, probably due to mercantile ties to the Christian Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in England. Remnants of a 9th-century church building has recently been excavated in Varnhem. The diocese of Skara, which is the oldest diocese in Sweden, emerged under the Archdiocese of Hamburg-Bremen, in the late 10th century. According to Adam of Bremen, the Christian king Olof Skötkonung, who ruled from c. 995 to c. 1022 was forced to limit Christian activities to the western province. When King Stenkil ascended to the throne in 1060 Christianity was firmly established throughout most of Sweden, although the people of Uppland, and probably Sodermanland, resisted the new religion.\n\nThe last king adhering to the old religion was Blot-Sweyn, who reigned 1084–1087. A handful of local saints (canonized on diocesan level before the centralized process became normative in 1170–1200), folk saints and clerics were allegedly martyred as late as the 1120s, most of them in Sodermanland and Uppland. Under the reign of Eric the Saint (1150–1160) Christianity became an ideological factor of the state, and the First Swedish Crusade took place; it was a military expedition aimed at converting the Finns to Christianity and conquering Finland as Swedish territory. (However, no archeological data or written sources seem to support the legend. The diocese and bishop of Finland are not listed among their Swedish counterparts before the 1250s). A national church of Sweden was not organized until 1164, when the first archbishop of Uppsala received his pallium from the archbishop of Lund.\n\nPre-Reformation Swedish Catholic religious leaders — including Bridget of Sweden, founder of the continuously functioning Catholic Vadstena Abbey — continue to be held in high regard by the population as a whole. Her nunnery at Vadstena is one of Sweden's pre-eminent tourist attractions.\n\nShortly after Gustav Vasa was elected king in 1523, he asked the Pope to confirm Johannes Magnus as Archbishop of Sweden, replacing Gustav Trolle, who had supported the Danish king Christian II and was convicted for treason. When the Pope refused, Gustav Vasa — he himself a proponent of a \"Renaissance Biblical Humanism\" — started to promote the Swedish Lutheran reformers Olaus, Laurentius Petri, and Laurentius Andreae. Gustav Trolle was eventually forced into exile, and soon all ecclesiastical property was transferred to the Crown. In 1531, Laurentius Petri was appointed by the Crown to become the first Lutheran primate of Sweden, and was ordained by five Catholic bishops without papal assent. The ties with Rome were irreversibly cut in 1536, when Canon Law was abolished.\n\nOriginally, no changes were made to official church doctrine, and the episcopal organization was retained. Gradually, in spite of popular protests against the introduction of \"Luthery\", teachings were aligned with continental Lutheranism. Calvinism was, otherwise, refuted as heresy at the synod of Stockholm in 1565. In order to appease the Holy See, king John III of Sweden, one of Gustav Vasa's sons, took measures to bring the Church of Sweden to a theological position influenced by George Cassander, but, in the heat of controversy, such a compromise position did not achieve its intent of reunion. However, after his death, his brother, Duke Charles, summoned the Uppsala Synod in 1593, which declared the Holy Scriptures the sole guideline for faith, with four documents accepted as faithful and authoritative explanations of it: the Apostles' Creed, the Nicene Creed, the Athanasian Creed, and the unaltered Augsburg Confession of 1530. The Uppsala Synod also reinstated The Swedish Church Ordinance of 1572, which remained in use until 1686.\n\nThe move put Charles at odds with the heir to the throne, his nephew Sigismund, who was raised in the Catholic faith. Although Sigismund promised to uphold Lutheranism, Duke Charles's aspirations to power led to the War against Sigismund, a power struggle that was effectively decided at the Battle of Stångebro in 1598, in favour of Charles and Protestantism.\n\nDuring the era following the Protestant Reformation, usually known as the period of Lutheran Orthodoxy, small groups of non-Lutherans, especially Calvinist Dutchmen, the Moravian Church and Walloon immigrants from the Southern Netherlands, played a significant role in trade and industry, and were quietly tolerated as long as they kept a low profile.\n\nThe Sami, who originally had their own shamanistic religion, were converted to Lutheranism by Swedish missionaries in the 17th and 18th centuries. Citizens of foreign nations, mainly Russians, were granted freedom to practice Eastern Orthodox Christianity since the Treaty of Stolbovo in 1617. Anglican and Calvinist foreigners were granted freedom to practice their religions in Stockholm (1741) and Gothenburg (1747). Similar liberties were granted Catholics in 1781, and an apostolic vicar was sent to Sweden in 1783.\n\nIn order to curb Pietism several royal decrees and parliament acts were issued in the 18th century; they forbade Swedish citizens to practice any religion besides mandatory Lutheran Sunday mass and daily family devotions. Without the presence of a Lutheran clergyman public religious gatherings were forbidden. It remained illegal until 1860 for Lutheran Swedes to convert to another confession or religion.\n\nIn 1860 it became legal to leave the Church of Sweden for the purpose of becoming a member of another officially recognised religious denomination. From 1951, it became legal to leave the church, without providing any reason. From 1951 to 1977 all religious institutions could only be established with the permission of the Crown.\n\nThe constitution of Sweden provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respects this right in practice. The government at all levels seeks to protect this right in full and does not tolerate its abuse, either by governmental or private actors. The rights and freedoms enumerated in the constitution include the rights to practice one's religion and protection of religious freedom. The laws concerning religious freedoms are generally observed and enforced at all government levels and by the courts in a non-discriminatory fashion. Legal protections cover discrimination or persecution by private actors.\n\nIn the early 2000s about 85% of Swedes still belonged to the Church of Sweden. By the end of 2017, this figure had fallen to 59.3%. The percentage of Swedes belonging to the Church of Sweden is decreasing yearly by more than one percent. In the year 2016, according to an online survey held among about 500 working-age, internet connected people in Sweden, only 24% of the participants claim to believe in Protestantism. 45% of the participants claim not to have any religious or spiritual belief, of whom 33% are atheists and 13% are agnostics. 13% say that they hold spiritual beliefs but they are not religious. Immigration and conversion has brought into Sweden a variety of religions from the East, including Islam (3%) and Buddhism (1%), but also new populations of Catholics (4%), and Orthodox Christianity (3%).\n\nEight recognized religious denominations, in addition to the Church of Sweden, raise revenues through member-contributions made through the national tax system. All recognized denominations are entitled to direct government financial support, contributions made through the national tax system, or a mix of both. Certain Christian holidays are national holidays. School students from minority religious backgrounds are entitled to take relevant religious holidays. No recognition or registration is required to carry out religious activity. Religious groups that want to receive government aid may apply for it.\n\nEducation about all major world religions is compulsory in public schools. Parents may send their children to religious charter schools, all of which receive school vouchers, provided they adhere to government guidelines on core academic curriculum. The Office of the Ombudsman against Ethnic Discrimination investigates claims of discrimination \"due to race, skin color, national or ethnic origin, or religion\". Discrimination on religious grounds is illegal, including discrimination in the work place and in the provision of public and private services.\n\n\nIn 2014, there were 4,812 formal affiliated Buddhists in Sweden, comprising 0.05% of the total population. A 2016 survey by Ipsos based on 500 working-age, internet connected Swedes, found that 1% of the respondents declared to be Buddhists.\n\nIn 2015 there were 6,886,501 formal affiliated Christians in Sweden, comprising 69.9% of the total population.\n\nSurvey results are various, for example, according to a 2016 Ipsos survey, only 32% of the approximately 500 working-age, internet connected participants claimed to belong to Christianity, and among them 24% belong to Protestantism, 4% to Catholicism, 3% to Orthodox Christianity and 1% to the Jehovah's Witnesses. Another survey by the Pew Research Center found in Spring 2016 that 66.7% out of a sample of 1,000 Swedes claimed to be Christians.\n\nAs of 2015, 6,601,113 people, or 67% of the total population, were registered members of the various Protestant denominations in Sweden.\n\nThe Church of Sweden () is the largest Christian church in Sweden, and also the largest religious body. The church professes the Lutheran faith and is a member of the Porvoo Communion. As of 2017 it has 5,993,368 members, 59.3% of the Swedish population, although surveys show different figures, ranging from 24% to 41% to 52.1%. Until 2000 it held the position of state religion, and most Swedes were baptised at birth. The number of both new baptisms and members has declined since. Indeed, according to official statistics, as of 2016:\n\nThe Church of Sweden, by law, is organized in the following manner:\n\nThe 19th century saw the arrival of various evangelical free churches, and, towards the end of the century secularism, leading many to distance themselves from church rituals. Leaving the Church of Sweden became legal with the so-called Dissenter Law of 1860, but only under the provision of entering another denomination. The right to stand outside any religious denomination was established in the law on freedom of religion in 1951.\n\nToday, the Swedish Free Church Council () organizes free churches in Sweden, belonging to various Protestant denominations: Calvinist, Pentecostal, and others. In total the member churches have around 250,000 members. Baptists, Methodists and the Mission Covenant Church of Sweden merged in 2011 into a new denomination: the Uniting Church in Sweden. It is the largest member church in the Swedish Free Church Council, with approximately 65,000 members. One of the Baptist denominations, the Evangelical Free Church in Sweden, has remained an independent denomination outside this merger.\n\nMost Catholics in Sweden are of Slavic (especially Poles and Croats), South American or Middle Eastern (especially Assyrian) origin.\n\nAs of 2015, legally registered Catholics in Sweden were 113,053, comprising 1.2% of the total population. According to Ipsos, in 2016 Catholic Church in Sweden account for 4% of the working-age, internet connected population, while the Pew Research Center found a percentage of 1.2% in April 2016.\n\nAccording to the \"2015 Yearbook of Jehovah's Witnesses\", there are 22,730 active members in Sweden, and 36,270 people attended their annual memorial of Christ's death. This number includes active members and guests. As of 2016, 1% of the working-age, internet connected population of Sweden declared to be Jehovah's Witnesses.\n\nMultiple Orthodox jurisdictions exist in Sweden, including but not limited to the Greek and Serbian Orthodox Churches. There is also a substantial presence of Coptic and Ethiopian Christians. The Serbian Orthodox Church has several parishes in Sweden, under jurisdiction of Serbian Orthodox Eparchy of Britain and Scandinavia. The Church of the Goths has a presence in Gotland. As of 2015, legally registered Eastern Orthodox Christians were 140,275 and they were the second-largest Christian sect in Sweden, comprising the 1.4% of the total population. A 2016 survey found that 3% of the working-age, internet connected population of Sweden declared to be Orthodox Christians.\n\nGermanic Heathenry, the contemporary continuation of ancient Germanic religion, is represented by various organizations, including the Nordic Society of the Ese (\"Nordiska Asa-samfundet\"), the Swedish Forn Sed Assembly (\"Samfundet Forn Sed Sverige\") and the Community for Nordic Faith (\"Samfälligheten för Nordisk Sed\"). The Nordic Society of the Ese, despite being the most recently founded amongst the three (it was founded in 2013), has quickly grown to become the largest Heathen organization in Sweden.\n\nIslam entered Sweden primarily through immigration from countries with large Muslim populations (such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Turkey, Iraq, Morocco, Iran, and Somalia ) in the late 20th century. The Baltic Tatars were the first Muslim group in modern Sweden.\n\nIn 2009 it was estimated that there were 450,000 to 500,000 Muslims in Sweden, around 5% of the total population, while there were only 139,759 formally affiliated Muslims in 2015. As of 2016, 3% of the working-age, internet connected population of Sweden claimed to be believers in Islam.\n\nThe Official Council of Swedish Jewish Communities estimates about 20,000 ethnic Jews in Sweden by halakhic criteria. Of them, about 8,302 were members of a Jewish religious congregation in 2015.\n\nStockholm has the largest community and boasts a primary school, a kindergarten, a library, a bi-monthly publication (\"Judisk Krönika\") and a weekly Jewish radio program. Other cities like Malmö, Gothenburg, Borås, Helsingborg, Lund, and Uppsala have Jewish communities as well. Synagogues can be found in Stockholm (which has two Orthodox and one Conservative synagogue), Göteborg (one Orthodox and one Conservative synagogue), Malmö (one Orthodox synagogue), and in Norrköping (although the Norrköping community is too small to perform regular services).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35685089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35685089", "title": "Religious discrimination in Pakistan", "text": "Religious discrimination in Pakistan\n\nReligious discrimination in Pakistan is a serious issue in modern day Pakistan. Christians, Hindus, Atheists and Ahmadi Muslims among other religious groups in Pakistan are routinely discriminated against. They are at times refused jobs, loans, housing and other similar things simply because of their choice of religious faith. Christian churches and Ahmadi worship places and their worshippers are often attacked. At the time of Pakistan's creation the 'hostage theory' had been espoused. According to this theory the Hindu minority in Pakistan was to be given a fair deal in Pakistan in order to ensure the protection of the Muslim minority in India. Khawaja Nazimuddin, the 2nd Prime Minister of Pakistan, stated: \"I do not agree that religion is a private affair of the individual nor do I agree that in an Islamic state every citizen has identical rights, no matter what his caste, creed or faith be\".\n\nAccording to Farahnaz Ispahani, media advisor to the president of Pakistan from 2008 to 2012, the population of Pakistan's religious minorities has declined from 23% in 1947 to around 3-4% of the population today.\n\nIn the 1951 census, West Pakistan had 1.6% Hindu population, while East Pakistan (modern Bangladesh) had 22.05%. By 1997, the percentage of Hindus remained stable at 1.6% in Pakistan, while it dropped to 10.2% in Bangladesh.\n\nIn 1999 the United Nations Human Rights Council approved the first resolution against defamation of religions. However these resolutions have been severely criticized by the United States, various European nations and freedom of religion groups as these resolutions contained language which could be used to discriminate against minority religions, and in March 2010 the UN refused to enact the most recent resolution.\n\nIn 2011 religious intolerance was reported to be at its height, hundreds of minorities, women, journalists and liberals were being killed by Islamist fundamentalist extremists, while the Government remained mostly a silent spectator, often only making statements which condemned the ruthless acts of violence by the extremists but taking no real concrete action against them.\n\nProgress on religious freedom is being made gradually as Pakistan transitions to democracy from Zia's legacy, in 2016 Sindh with Pakistan's largest Hindu minority passed a bill that outlawed forced conversions. The bill was tabled by a faction of the Pakistan Muslim League which in Sindh is led by Sufi leader Pir Pagara, called PML-F, Pakistan Muslim League functional.\n\nAttacks on religious minorities in Pakistan have claimed hundreds of lives of religious minorities, such as Pakistani Ahmadis, Hindus, Sufis and Christians. Hindu women have also been known to be victims of kidnapping and forced conversion to Islam. An official of the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan said in 2010 that around 20 to 25 Hindu girls are abducted every month and forcibly converted to Islam. A Pakistan Muslim League politician has stated that abduction of Hindus and Sikhs is a business in Pakistan, along with conversions of Hindus to Islam. Forced conversion, rape, and forced marriages of Hindu women in Pakistan have recently become very controversial in Pakistan. Sadiq Bhanbhro, Researcher on Public Health and Gender-Based Violence at Sheffield Hallam University commented he found reports of 286 girls forcibly converted from 2012 to 2017 in English-language dailies, though this number is likely higher. South Asia Partnership Pakistan has stated that every year at least 1,000 girls mostly belonging to the Hindu community are forcibly converted annually. Amarnath Motumal who works for Human Rights Commission of Pakistan has stated that 20 to 25 were kidnapped and converted every month.\n\nA survey carried out by All Pakistan Hindu Rights Movement Pakistan's revealed that out of 428 Hindu temples in Pakistan only around 20 survive today and they remain neglected by the Evacuee Trust Property Board which controls those while the rest had been converted for other uses. In 1990s nearly 1000 Hindu temples were targeted by the frenzied Islamists for vandalism destruction according to journalist Reema Abbasi. Hindus often live in fear, have to hide their identity, adopt Muslim names and mannerisms to survive and avoid persecution while hundreds of temples have been vandalized or demolished. In the aftermath of the Babri Masjid demolition Pakistani Hindus faced riots. Mobs attacked five Hindu temples in Karachi and set fire to 25 temples in towns across the province of Sindh. Shops owned by Hindus were also attacked in Sukkur. Hindu homes and temples were also attacked in Quetta. Jain Mandar at Jain Mandar Chowk in Lahore was destroyed by the bigoted Muslims mobs in 1992 and the government changed the name of Jain Mandar Chowk to Babri Masjid chowk, which became the official name. According to the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan data, just around 1,000 Hindu families fled to India in 2013. In May 2014, a member of the ruling Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N), Dr. Ramesh Kumar Vankwani, revealed in the National Assembly of Pakistan that around 5,000 Hindus are migrating from Pakistan to India every year.\n\nIn 2005, 32 Hindus were killed by firing from the government side near Nawab Akbar Bugti's residence during bloody clashes between Bugti tribesmen and paramilitary forces in Balochistan. The firing left the Hindu residential locality near Bugti's residence badly hit. On 18 October 2005, Sanno Amra and Champa, a Hindu couple residing in the Punjab Colony, Karachi, Sindh returned home to find that their three teenage daughters had disappeared. After inquiries to the local police, the couple discovered that their daughters had been taken to a local madrassah, had been converted to Islam, and were denied unsupervised contact with their parents. In January 2017, a Hindu temple was demolished in Pakistan's Haripur district.\n\nIn 2006, a Hindu temple in Lahore was destroyed to pave the way for construction of a multi-storied commercial building. When reporters from Pakistan-based newspaper Dawn tried to cover the incident, they were accosted by the henchmen of the property developer, who denied that a Hindu temple existed at the site. \n\nIn 2009, the Taliban imposed Jizya on non-muslims, houses of 11 Sikh families were demolished in Orakzai Agency for refusing to pay jizya ransom. In 2010, a Sikh youth Jaspal Singh was beheaded in Khyber Agency after his family could not pay the big Jijzya ransom. Consequently, thousands of Sikhs had to abandon their homes and flee from tribal areas to resettled in areas with larger Sikh population, such as Peshawar, Hassanabdal and Nankana Sahib.\n\nIn July 2010, Hindus were attacked and ethnically cleansed with 60 fleeing Murad Memon Goth in Karachi following an incident when a Hindu youth drank from a water tap near an Islamic mosque. In January 2014, in an attack on a temple in Peshawar, the guard was gunned down. The July 2010 Lahore bombings killed 50 people and wounded 200 others in two suicide bombings on the Sufi shrine, Data Durbar Complex in Lahore. The May 2010 Lahore attacks left 94 dead and more than 120 injured in nearly simultaneous attacks against two mosques of the minority Ahmadiyya Community Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan, as well as their Punjab wing, claimed responsibility for the attacks and were also blamed by the Pakistani police.\n\nIn 2012 Jundallah militants stopped buses and massacred 18 men travelling on buses. All but one of the victims were Shia Muslim, while others on the buses were spared.\n\nOn 22 September 2013, a twin suicide bomb attack took place at All Saints Church in Peshawar, Pakistan, in which 127 people were killed and over 250 injured. On 15 March 2015, two blasts took place at Roman Catholic Church and Christ Church during Sunday service at Youhanabad town of Lahore. At least 15 people were killed and seventy were wounded in the attacks.\n\nOn March 15, 2014, a crowd of Muslims burnt a Hindu temple and a dharmashala in Larkana, Sindh, Pakistan, after unverified allegations of a Hindu youth desecrating a copy of the Quran. In January 2014, a policeman standing guard outside a Hindu temple at Peshawar was gunned down. \"The 25 March 2014 Express Tribune\" citing a All Pakistan Hindu Rights Movement (PHRM) survey said that 95% of all Hindu temples in Pakistan have been converted since 1990. A church in Quetta was bombed with 9 being killed. The Islamic State group took responsibility for the attack.\n\nAttacks on minorities in the country have led to condemnation of policies that are discriminatory to religious minorities in Pakistan. Following the 2010 Lahore massacre, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said \"Members of this religious community have faced continuous threats, discrimination and violent attacks in Pakistan. There is a real risk that similar violence might happen again unless advocacy of religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence is adequately addressed. The Government must take every step to ensure the security of members of all religious minorities and their places of worship so as to prevent any recurrence of today’s dreadful incident.\" Ban's spokesperson expressed condemnation and extended his condolences to the families of the victims and to the Government. \n\nThe United States ambassador to Pakistan, Anne W. Patterson, issued an unusually strong statement saying Pakistan had witnessed an increase in \"provocative statements that promote intolerance and are an incitement to extremist violence.\" \n\nAn editorial published in \"Dawn\" condemned the attacks, commenting that \"Bigotry in this country has been decades in the making and is expressed in a variety of ways. Violence by individuals or groups against those who hold divergent views may be the most despicable manifestation of such prejudice but it is by no means the only one. Religious minorities in Pakistan have not only been shunted to the margins of society but also face outright persecution on a regular basis.\"\n\nAsia Bibi is a Pakistani Christian woman who was convicted of blasphemy by a Pakistani court, receiving a sentence of death by hanging. In June 2009, Bibi was involved in an argument with a group of Muslim women with whom she had been harvesting berries after the other women grew angry with her for drinking the same water as them. She was subsequently accused of insulting the Islamic prophet Muhammad, a charge she denies, and was arrested and imprisoned. In November 2010, a Sheikhupura judge sentenced her to death. If executed, Bibi would be the first woman in Pakistan to be lawfully killed for blasphemy.\n\nIn August 2012, Rimsha Masih, a Christian girl, reportedly 11 or 14 years old, and an illiterate with mental disabilities was accused of blasphemy for burning pages from a book containing Quranic verses. The allegation came from a Muslim cleric who himself has subsequently been accused by the police of framing the girl. The girl, and later the cleric, were both arrested and released on bail.\n\nIn 2014 Junaid Jamshed was accused under the blasphemy law. According to \"The Economist\", Jamshed \"is unable to return to Pakistan after being accused of mocking one of the Prophet’s wives in a throwaway remark about the weakness of women.\"\n\nOn March 2017 a Hindu man Prakash Kumar was arrested on the charges of blasphemy in the province of Balochistan.\n\nCritics of the blasphemy laws have called for change.\n\nIt is estimated that 95% of Pakistanis are Muslims (75-95% Sunni, 5-20% Shia and 0.22-2.2% Ahmadi), while the remaining 5% includes Hindus, Christians and Sikhs. The Ahmadiyya have faced greater persecution since 1974 after being declared \"non Muslims\" over allegations that they do not recognize Muhammad as the last prophet.\n\nIn addition, there have been many cases of religious persecution in of Hindus in the nation. Among these, the most recent include 19-year-old Hindu girl Rinkle Kumari from Mirpur Mathelo in Ghotki district, Sindh province who was abducted by a gang and \"forced\" to convert to Islam, before being head shaved.\n\nAnother recent case was the gunning down of four Hindu doctors in Chak town, Shikarpur sparking fears and panic among the minority community.\n\nIn 2011 the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) released a report on the public schools and Madrassas in Pakistan. The study concluded \n\n\n"}
{"id": "33412243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33412243", "title": "Religious views of the Beatles", "text": "Religious views of the Beatles\n\nThe religious views of the English rock band the Beatles evolved over time and differed between members John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr.\n\nAlthough all four Beatles were associated with either Protestantism or Roman Catholicism in their childhood, they had all abandoned their religious upbringings by 1964. In 1965, while filming for \"Help!\" in the Bahamas, a Hindu gave each of them a copy of a book on reincarnation. This encounter is widely regarded as having sparked the band's interest in Indian culture.\n\nIn March 1966, Lennon remarked to a journalist from the \"Evening Standard\" that the Beatles had become \"more popular than Jesus\". The comment went unnoticed until in August the same year, the American magazine \"Datebook\" published it, inciting protests against the Beatles. The band were threatened, their records were publicly burned, and radio stations refused to play their songs.\n\nAfter the Beatles' 1966 US tour, Harrison broadened his interest of Indian culture to Hinduism. He and his wife Pattie Boyd went on a pilgrimage to Mumbai to meet gurus. In 1968, all four Beatles went to Rishikesh in northern India to study meditation with the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. Although the Beatles did not continue their relationship with the Maharishi, Harrison became involved in the Hare Krishna tradition until his death in 2001.\n\nAfter the break-up of the Beatles in 1970, Lennon continued to reject religion. His 1971 single \"Imagine\" is regarded as an \"atheist anthem\". In 2010, Starr said he had recently returned to monotheism, while McCartney, in 2012, said he has a \"personal faith in something good, but it doesn't really go much further than that\".\n\nMcCartney and Harrison were both baptised as Roman Catholics during childhood, although McCartney was raised non-denominationally; his mother was Roman Catholic and his father was a Protestant turned agnostic. Harrison was raised Roman Catholic.\n\nLennon attended St Peter's Anglican church in Woolton, South Liverpool, where he was a member of the youth group and sang occasionally in the choir.\n\nStarr attended an evangelical Anglican church during his childhood.\n\nAccording to the band's press officer, Derek Taylor, all four Beatles had abandoned their religious upbringings by 1964. In an interview for \"The Saturday Evening Post\", in August of that year, he stated that the Beatles were \"completely anti-Christ. I mean, I am anti-Christ as well, but they're so anti-Christ they shock me which isn't an easy thing.\"\n\nIn February 1965, the band gave an interview to \"Playboy\" magazine, in which they defended themselves against claims that they were anti-religious, while at the same time emphatically declaring themselves to be agnostic.\n\nIt was also in February 1965 that filming for \"Help!\" began, on location in the Bahamas. During filming, a Hindu devotee presented each Beatle with a book about reincarnation. The incident is widely regarded as having instigated the band's interest in Indian culture.\n\nIn August 1966, on the eve of The Beatles' 1966 US tour, American teen magazine \"Datebook\" published Lennon's remark that the Beatles had become \"more popular than Jesus\". Lennon had, in fact, originally made the remark to the British newspaper \"London Evening Standard\" and when it was first published in the United Kingdom, in March 1966, his words had provoked no public reaction. After \"Datebook\" quoted his comments five months later, however, vociferous protests broke out in the United States. The Beatles' records were publicly burned, threats were made and some radio stations refused to play their music. The protest also spread to other countries including Mexico, South Africa and Spain.\n\nTwo press conferences were held in the US, where both Brian Epstein and Lennon expressed their regret that Lennon's words had been taken out of context and offence taken. At one of the conferences, Lennon described his own belief in God by quoting the Bishop of Woolwich, saying, \"... not as an old man in the sky. I believe that what people call God is something in all of us.\" The US tour went ahead as planned, although there was some disruption and picketing of their concerts.\n\nHarrison's interest in Indian culture expanded to Hinduism and after the 1966 American tour, until the commencement of the \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" album, he and his first wife Pattie Boyd went on a pilgrimage to Mumbai where Harrison studied sitar, visited various holy places and met several gurus, including Maharishi. Two years later, in 1968 all four Beatles travelled to Rishikesh in northern India to study meditation with the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. Although the band later fell out with the Maharishi, Harrison continued his interest in Eastern philosophy. He embraced the Hare Krishna tradition and, in the summer of 1969, produced the single \"Hare Krishna Mantra\", performed by the devotees of the London Radha Krishna Temple.\n\nAfter the break-up of the Beatles, Lennon continued to reject religious teaching and organised religions. His 1971 single \"Imagine\" has been described as an \"atheist anthem\". He sings about his beliefs in the song \"God\", in which he states, \"I don't believe in\" magic, \"I Ching\", the Bible, tarot, Jesus, Buddha, mantra, Gita and yoga. Although he commonly rejected the notion of religion, he did claim to have a spiritual side. In an interview conducted in September 1980, three months before his death, Lennon told \"Playboy\" journalist David Sheff: \"People always got the image I was an anti-Christ or antireligion. I'm not. I'm a most religious fellow.\" When talking about Bob Dylan's new-found Christianity, Lennon said, \"But the whole religion business suffers from the 'Onward, Christian Soldiers' bit. There's too much talk about soldiers and marching and converting. I'm not pushing Buddhism, because I'm no more a Buddhist than I am a Christian, but there's one thing I admire about the religion [Buddhism]: There's no proselytizing.\"\n\nHarrison continued to embrace the Hare Krishna tradition (particularly \"japa-yoga\" chanting with beads) and became a lifelong devotee. He was also a vegetarian, on religious grounds, from 1968 until his death. Along with his wife Olivia, son Dhani and close friends, members of the Radha Krishna Temple were at his bedside when Harrison died in Los Angeles on 29 November 2001. In her press statement, Olivia referred to the Hindu aspiration of breaking the cycle of rebirth (and so achieving \"moksha\"), saying: \"The profound beauty of the moment of George's passing – of his awakening from this dream – was no surprise to those of us who knew how he longed to be with God. In that pursuit, he was relentless.\" In accordance with his wishes, Harrison's ashes were scattered at Varanasi in India, at the confluence of the Ganges, Yamuna and Saraswati rivers.\n\nSpeaking at the Grammy Museum, Los Angeles, in February 2010, Starr stated that he had recently returned to monotheism, saying \"I stepped off the path there for many years and found my way [back] onto it, thank God.\" He was also reported as saying \"For me, God is in my life. I don't hide from that ... I think the search has been on since the '60s.\" In Olivia Harrison's 2011 book \"George Harrison: Living in the Material World\", Starr describes himself as \"a Christian Hindu with Buddhist tendencies\". Starr added that, as with his belated admiration for Indian music, this was \"Thanks to George, who opened my eyes as much as anyone else's.\"\n\nIn a 2012 interview for \"The Independent\", McCartney said, \"I have a kind of personal faith in something good, but it doesn't really go much further than that.\" He also went on to say, \"Jesus I could see, that's a historical character.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34486378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34486378", "title": "Rigpa organization", "text": "Rigpa organization\n\nRigpa is the name of an international Buddhist organization founded by Sogyal Rinpoche in 1979. It has centers and groups in 41 countries around the world. Following allegations of sexual and physical abuse in a letter by former students in 2017, Rigpa commissioned an independent investigation which found those claims to be largely substantiated, along with evidence of a cover-up. According to its website, Rigpa seeks to make the teachings of Buddha available to benefit as many people as possible, and to offer those following the Buddhist teachings a complete path of study and practice, along with the environment they need to explore the teachings to their fullest. \n\nAfter five years teaching in the West, Sogyal Rinpoche gave the name 'Rigpa' to his work. At that time, Rigpa had just one centre, in north-west London and was known as Dzogchen Orgyen Chö Ling. By 1980, Sogyal Rinpoche was teaching in the UK, France, the United States, Ireland and Holland. Rigpa centres opened in a number of major cities, and in each country Rigpa was established as a non-profit organization. A programme of Easter and summer retreats began, and Rigpa’s first retreat centre, Dzogchen Beara, was set up on the west coast of Ireland.\n\nRigpa invited the Dalai Lama, or sponsored his teachings or empowerments, on a number of occasions; in Paris in 1982, London in 1984 and San Jose in 1989. Five and a half thousand people attended the teachings in San Jose, in what at the time was the largest gathering of practitioners and masters of Buddhadharma in America, and possibly in the West.\n\nIn 1990, Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche taught and gave empowerments to 1,500 people at Rigpa’s summer retreat near Grenoble in the French Alps. In 1992, the Dzogchen Monastery in Kollegal in India, sponsored by Rigpa, was officially inaugurated when Dzogchen Rinpoche invited the Dalai Lama to give empowerments. In the same year, Rigpa opened its main retreat centre, Lerab Ling near Montpellier in the south of France. Thich Nhat Hanh, Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok and Penor Rinpoche were among the masters who taught there in the years that followed.\n\nIn 1999, Trulshik Rinpoche founded the basis for a monastic community within Rigpa by ordaining the first nuns. In 2000 the Dalai Lama visited Lerab Ling, and gave five days of teachings entitled \"The Path to Enlightenment\", attended by more than 10,000 students of Tibetan Buddhism from around the world. The teachings given by the Dalai Lama have been published in a book entitled \"Mind in Comfort and Ease: The Vision of Enlightenment in the Great Perfection\".\n\nLerab Ling was officially recognized as a ‘religious congregation’ in 2002. In 2006, a traditional three-storey temple at Lerab Ling was completed, including a seven-metre high statue of Buddha Shakyamuni. Rigpa's first three-year retreat began, with over 300 people remaining in closed retreat at Lerab Ling from 2006–2009, and since 2006, over 3,000 students have followed a 'home retreat' programme in their own countries. In 2007, work began on Rigpa's Spiritual Care Centre at Dzogchen Beara.\n\nIn 1993, Sogyal Rinpoche published \"The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying\", the success of which led to a great expansion in the work of Rigpa. A Spiritual Care Education and Training Programme was set up, and in 1996 Rigpa presented a conference on care for the dying, near Munich, which had a considerable influence on the emerging hospice movement in Germany.\n\nFollowing the testimonies from current and ex-Rigpa students, of physical, sexual and financial abuse by Sogyal Rinpoche, the Union Bouddhiste De France suspended the membership of Rigpa Lérab Ling and Rigpa France on August 3rd, 2017.\n\nIn July 2017 a number of allegations of misconduct were brought against Rigpa's founder, Sogyal Rinpoche. One of the actions undertaken by Rigpa was to commission an independent investigation into the allegations to enable witnesses to come forward, and \"be listened to in an open, impartial and sensitive way\". \n\nThe report by Karen Baxter of UK law firm Lewis Silkin confirmed that, on the balance of probabilities:\n\n\n\nIn her findings Karen Baxter described one of the senior managers interviewed for the report as being “guarded, hostile and inconsistent”. Another senior member of the management team was described by the lawyer as involved in “a pro-active cover-up”.\n\nThe UK Charities Commission has made it very clear in recent years that they will expect organisations with safeguarding problems to launch an investigation, co-operate with the authorities and put right what they can before they are allowed to move on.\n\nRigpa has acknowledged the gravity of the independent report, but has not yet accepted the findings of the investigation, nor committed to implementing its recommendations.\n\nRigpa has developed a graduated \"study and practice\" program that is delivered internationally and which can take several years to complete. It begins with foundation-level courses introducing basic meditation practice, using \"samatha\" methods such as resting the mind on an object (such as the breath or a picture of Padmasambhava) and mantra recitation. Then the Mahayana teachings are presented, together with the \"tonglen\" practice of giving and receiving. Next, students are taught Vajrayana preliminaries, including \"Taking Refuge\" and \"bodhicitta\" (mind of awakening). Older students are taught \"sadhana\" practices focusing on the \"terma\" revelations of Sogyal Rinpoche's predecessor, Tertön Sogyal, as well as the practice of Dzogchen meditation.\n\nRigpa also has a program, Rigpé Yeshé, to help members who are parents and wish to educate their children as Buddhists.\n\nThe Rigpa Shedra, or study college, was established in 2001 in Lerab Ling. It offers courses based on traditional Buddhist texts taught by lamas such as Dzogchen Rinpoche, Dzigar Kongtrul Rinpoche, Ringu Tulku and Khenpo Pema Sherab. A longer, more intensive version known as Rigpa Shedra East, which is based in Pharping near Kathmandu and is under the guidance of Khenpo Namdrol, began in 2006. This eastern shedra runs for four months a year and the full curriculum takes nine years to complete.\n\nOver the years many senior teachers from the Tibetan tradition have taught in Rigpa centres, including the Dalai Lama, Sakya Trizin, Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche, Dudjom Rinpoche, Kalu Rinpoche, Nyoshul Khen Rinpoche and Trulshik Rinpoche. More recently, regular teachers at Rigpa centres around the world have included many from the younger generation of lamas, such as Dzongsar Khyentse Rinpoche, Dzigar Kongtrul Rinpoche, Tsoknyi Rinpoche, Yongey Mingyur Rinpoche and Khandro Rinpoche. A number of teachers from other traditions have also been invited, including Thich Nhat Hanh, who taught in Lerab Ling in 1993, and Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Thero, who taught in Rigpa London in 1983. Senior students of Sogyal Rinpoche have taught courses on meditation and Buddhism since the early days of Rigpa. Such student teachers include Patrick Gaffney, who edited the \"Tibetan Book of Living and Dying\", Ian Maxwell, Maureen Cooper, Christine Longaker and Andrew Warr.\n\nRigpa is well known in the Tibetan Buddhist community for its Tibetan calendar, which was first published in 1979. Other publications include \"View: The Rigpa Journal\" which began in 1994. In 2012 Rigpa's translation group published their translation of a book on lojong, \"To Dispel the Misery of the World\", by the Sakya master Ga Rabjampa, with a foreword by Sogyal Rinpoche's former tutor, Khenpo Appey Rinpoche.\n\n"}
{"id": "943833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=943833", "title": "Ritual washing in Judaism", "text": "Ritual washing in Judaism\n\nIn Judaism, ritual washing, or ablution, takes two main forms. A tevilah (טְבִילָה) is a full body immersion in a mikveh, and a netilat yadayim which is the washing of the hands with a cup (see Handwashing in Judaism).\n\nReferences to ritual washing are found in the Hebrew Bible, and are elaborated in the Mishnah and Talmud. They have been codified in various codes of Jewish law and tradition, such as Maimonides' \"Mishneh Torah\" (12th century) and Joseph Karo's \"Shulchan Aruch\" (16th century.) These customs are most commonly observed within Orthodox Judaism. In Conservative Judaism, the practices are normative with certain leniencies and exceptions. Ritual washing is not generally performed in Reform Judaism.\n\nThe Hebrew Scriptures include various regulations about bathing:\nA subsequent seven clean days are then required, culminating in a ritual and temple offering before the \"zav\" is clean of his malady:\n\nAnd also references to hand-washing:\n\nPhilo of Alexandria refers to ritual washing in the context of the Temple and Leviticus, but also speaks of spiritual \"washing.\" At Qumran basins which served as baths have been identified, and among the Dead Sea scrolls texts on maintaining ritual purity reflect the requirements of Leviticus.\n\nBoth traditional religious and secular scholars agree that ritual washing in Judaism was derived by the Rabbis of the Talmud from a more extensive set of ritual washing and purity practices in use in the days of the Temple in Jerusalem, based on various verses in the Hebrew Scriptures and received traditions. There is disagreement, however, about the origins and meanings of these practices. This article first describes these practices as they exist in contemporary traditional Judaism, then discusses various alternative perspectives on their nature, origins, and meaning.\n\nTraditional Judaism requires certain types of ritual washing. Some of these types do not require a special ritual body of water (and can be done with tap water):\n\n\nOther occasions require full immersion in a special body of water, such as a spring, stream, or mikveh:\n\n\nPrior to ascending the Temple Mount by those Orthodox authorities who permit ascending the Temple mount (and also by the Masorti movement in Israel). For this purpose an ordinary mikveh is not sufficient—it requires a pool of \"living water,\" i.e. a spring, river, or a pool attached to one of these.\n\nSome rabbis within Conservative Judaism advise non-married women who choose to engage in sexual activity to also observe \"niddah\" and immersion in a \"mikveh.\n\nThe Talmud used the requirement of washing the hands in Leviticus 15:11 as a hint for general hand washing law, using \"asmachta\" - a talmudical hermeneutics form in which the verse used as a hint rather than an exegesis.\n\nThe general Hebrew term for ritual hand washing is \"netilat yadayim\", meaning \"lifting up of the hands\". The term \"the washing of hands\" after excretion is sometimes referred to as \"to wash \"asher yatzar\"\" referring to the berakhah (blessing) said which starts with these words.\n\nHalakha (Jewish law) requires that the water used for ritual washing be naturally pure, unused, not contain other substances, and not be discoloured. The water also must be poured from a vessel as a human act, on the basis of references in the Bible to this practice, e.g. Elisha pouring water upon the hands of Elijah. Water should be poured on each hand at least twice. A clean dry substance should be used instead if water is unavailable.\n\nContemporary practice is to pour water on each hand three times for most purposes using a cup, and alternating the hands between each occurrence; this ritual is now known by the Yiddish term \"negel vasser\", meaning \"nail water\". This Yiddish term is also used for a special cup used for such washing.\n\nבָּרוּךְ אַתָּה \nה׳ אֱלֹהֵינוּ מֶלֶךְ הָעוֹלָם \nאֲשֶׁר קִדְּשָׁנוּ בְּמִצְוֹתָיו \nוְצִוָּנוּ \nעַל \nנְטִילַת \nיָדָיִם\nBlessed are you, HaShem our God\nKing of the universe\nWho has sanctified us with His commandments,\nand has commanded us concerning the elevation of hands.\n\nThe Babylonian Talmud discusses two types of washing at meals: washing before a meal is described as \"first waters\" (the Hebrew term is \"mayim rishonim\"), and after a meal is known as \"last waters\" (the Hebrew term is \"mayim aharonim\"). The first term has generally fallen from contemporary usage; the second term has stuck. The modern term for the former is \"Netilat yadayim\", washing of hands. Washing before meals is normative in Orthodox Judaism.\n\nThe Gemarah of the Babylonian Talmud contains homiletic descriptions of the importance of the practice, including an argument that washing before meals is so important that neglecting it is tantamount to unchastity, and risks divine punishment in the form of sudden destruction or poverty. The discussion of \"mayim acharonim\", washing after meals, contains a suggestion that washing after meals, as a health measure, is the more important of the two washings, on grounds that the salt used as a preservative in food could cause blindness if the eyes were rubbed without washing.\n\nRabbi Abraham Isaac Kook explained that our involvement in the physical act of eating has the potential to diminish our sense of holiness. To counteract this influence, we wash our hands after the meal. The Talmudic Sages spoke of washing away the \"salt of Sodom\" – a place whose very name is a symbol of selfishness and indifference to others. \"This dangerous salt, which can blind our eyes to the needs of others, is rendered harmless through the purifying ritual of \"mayim acharonim\".\"\nAlthough \"mayim acharonim\" was once not widely practiced (for example, until recently it did not appear in many Orthodox Passover Haggadahs) it has undergone something of a revival and has become more widely observed in recent years, particularly for special meals such as the Shabbat and Jewish holidays. Conservative Judaism has supported discontinuing the practice of \"mayim acharonim\" on the grounds that the rabbis of the Talmud instituted it as a health measure, and since modern foods no longer contain preservatives so dangerous as to cause blindness upon contact with the eyes, washing the hands after meals is no longer required and can be discontinued by contemporary rabbinic decision.\n\nOnly the washing before the meal is generally done outside Orthodox Judaism.\n\nAccording to the \"Shulchan Aruch\", a person should wash both hands before prayer, based on a tradition requiring ritual purification upon entering the Temple in Jerusalem, in whose absence prayer, in Orthodox Judaism, serves in its place.\n\nIn Orthodox Judaism (and, in some cases, in Conservative Judaism), Kohanim, members of the priestly class, offer the Priestly Blessing before the congregation on certain occasions. Before performing their offices, they are required to wash their hands. Judaism traditionally traces this requirement to the Torah:\n\nIt is customary for Levites to pour the water over the hands of the Kohanim and to assist them in other ways. In many communities, washing the feet before the Priestly Blessing is not practiced in the absence of a Temple in Jerusalem.\n\nThe Talmud states God commanded Jews \"to wash the hands\" and provides the text of the \"netilat yadaim\" blessing still in use.\n\nAccording to the \"Shulchan Aruch\" a person who slept is required to wash upon arising, and says the \"natilat yadayim\" blessing.\n\nThere are several occasions on which biblical or rabbinical regulations require immersion of the whole body, referred to as tvilah. Depending on the circumstances, such ritual bathing might require immersion in \"living water\" - either by using a natural stream or by using a mikveh (a specially constructed ritual bath, connected directly to a natural source of water, such as a spring).\n\nThis article discusses the requirements of immersion in Rabbinic Judaism and its descendants. Some other branches of Judaism, such as Falasha Judaism, have substantially different practices including the requirement of an actual spring or stream.\n\nJudaism requires converts into Judaism to immerse themselves fully in water in a mikveh or body of \"living water.\"\n\nThe Torah prescribes rituals addressing the skin condition known as \"tzaraath\" and unusual genital discharges in a man or women (Zav/Zavah), which required special sacrifices and rituals in the days of the Temple in Jerusalem including immersion in a mikveh. In addition, a period of ritual impurity follows a seminal discharge (\"keri\") and a women's \"niddah\" period (menstruation), ending with ritual immersion.\n\nThe practice of checking for \"tzaraath\" fell out of use with the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem and the end of sacrificial rites. However, each of the other requirements remains in effect to some extent in Orthodox Judaism and (to a lesser degree) in Conservative Judaism.\n\n\"Niddah\" remains fully observed in Orthodox Judaism and normative in Conservative Judaism. Women's ritual immersion prior to resuming sexual relations following their \"niddah\" period remains the principal use of contemporary mikvehs.\n\nA woman experiencing uterine blood not part of normal menstruation was classified as a \"zavah\" in the days of the Temple in Jerusalem and remained in a state of ritual impurity for 7 days prior to immersion. Today, the law of \"zavah\" remains in effect in Orthodox Judaism, in two respects. Due to extreme conditions in Roman Palestine in the time of the Amoraim, women's periods became irregular, and women became unable to determine whether or not their discharges were regular (\"niddah\") or irregular (\"zavah\"). As a result, women adapted a stringency combining the \"niddah\" and \"zavah\" periods, refraining from intercourse and physical contact with their husbands for seven days of the \"zavah\" period following menstruation, for a total of approximately 12 days per month, which Orthodox women continue to observe today. The laws of \"zavah\" are also applied, as in Biblical times, to uterine blood discharges outside regular menstruation. Such circumstances are often interpreted leniently, however, and rabbinic stratagems have been devised to lessen their severity. Women experiencing irregularities (droplets) are sometimes advised to wear coloured underwear to mitigate the detectability of evidence of \"zavah\" status and hence a need to determine that a woman is a \"zavah\".\n\nMen experiencing a seminal discharge, including through regular marital intercourse, were prohibited from entering the Temple in Jerusalem and required to immerse in a mikveh, remaining ritually impure until the evening. The Talmud ascribes to the Great Assembly of Ezra a Rabbinic decree imposing further restrictions on men ritually impure from a seminal discharge, including a prohibition on studying Torah and from participating in services.\n\nMaimonides wrote a responsum lifting the decree of Ezra, based on an opinion in the Talmud stating that it had failed to be observed by a majority of the community and the Jewish people found themselves unable to sustain it. However, Maimonides continued to follow the \"Keri\" restrictions as a matter of personal observance. Since then, observance of the rules of \"Keri\" and hence regular mikveh use by men fell into disuse in many communities. Hasidic Judaism, however, revived the practice of regular mikveh use, advocating regular daily mikveh use as a way of achieving spiritual purity. The growth of Hasidic Judaism resulted in a revival of mikveh use by men. In addition, some Sephardic and Mizrahi communities continued to observe the rules of \"keri\" throughout.\n\nAccording to Leviticus, anyone who comes into contact with or carries any creature that hadn't been deliberately killed by \"shechita\" was regarded by the biblical regulations as having made themselves unclean by doing so, and therefore was compelled to immerse their entire body. This regulation is immediately preceded by the rule against eating anything still containing blood, and according to biblical scholars this is also the context of the regulation about not eating non-sacrifices - that the regulation only treats such consumption as unclean if there is a risk of blood still remaining within the carcass. In the version of this regulation in Deuteronomy, eating the bodies of such creatures isn't described as making an individual ritually impure, nor requires the eater to wash their body, but instead such consumption is expressly forbidden, although the creature is allowed to be passed on to a stranger, who is permitted to eat it.\n\nAnyone who came into contact with a human corpse, or grave, was so ritually impure that they had to be sprinkled with the water produced from the red heifer ritual, in order to become ritually pure again; however, the person who carried out the red heifer ritual and who sprinkled the water, was to be treated as having become ritually impure by doing so. According to biblical scholars, this ritual derives from the same origin as the ritual described in Deuteronomy for a group of people to atone for murder by an unknown perpetrator, according to which a heifer is killed at a stream, and hands are washed over it; biblical scholars believe that these are both ultimately cases of sympathetic magic, and similar rituals existed in Greek and Roman mythology. The masoretic text describes the water produced from the red heifer ritual as a sin offering; some English translations discount this detail, because it differs from other sin offerings by not being killed at the altar, although biblical scholars believe that this demonstrates a failure by these translations to understand the meaning of sin offerings.\n\nNo explicit regulations are expressed in the bible concerning the treatment of a corpse itself, although historic rabbinical sources saw an implication that the dead should be thoroughly washed per Ecclesiastes, as children are washed when born; according to Eliezer ben Joel HaLevi, a prominent \"rishon\", argued that the corpse should be cleansed carefully, including the ears and fingers, with nails pared and hair combed, so that the corpse could be laid to rest in the manner that the person had visited the synagogue during life. Washing of corpses was not observed among the Jews living in Persian Babylon, for which they were criticised as dying \"in filth, without a candle and without a bath\"; at the time, the non-Jewish Persians were predominantly Zoroastrian, and consequently believed that dead bodies were inherently ritually unclean, and should be exposed to the elements in a Tower of Silence to avoid defiling the earth with them.\n\nIn the early periods the body was washed in a standard mikveh, and this is frequently the form of the ritual in the present day, but the traditional washing ceremony, known as \"tahara\", became quite detailed over time. A special building for the corpse-washing existed in the cemetery in 15th century Prague, a practice which obtains in many Jewish communities today; a mikveh is provided at a number of ancient tombs. Female corpses are traditionally cleaned only by other females, and males only by other males.\n\nBetween death and the traditional ceremony, the body is placed on the ground, and covered with a sheet, and at the start of the traditional ceremony, the body is lifted from the ground onto a special board or slab (a \"tahara board\"), so that it lies facing the door, with a white sheet underneath. The clothes are then removed from the corpse (if they were not removed when the corpse was placed on the ground), and at this point is recited by the enactors of the ritual, as it refers to the removal of filthy clothes. Following this, the body is thoroughly rubbed with lukewarm water, with the mouth of the corpse covered so that water does not enter it; the next part of the ritual is the pouring of water over the head, while is quoted, since it refers to the sprinkling of water to produce cleanness; and then each limb is washed downwards, while and the following verses, which describe the beauty of elements of the body, are spoken. Finally, nine measures of cold water are poured over the body while it is upright, which is the core element of the ceremony, and it is then dried (according to some customs), and enshrouded; in ancient times the hair and nails were also cut, but by the 19th century the hair was merely combed, and the nails were just cleansed with a special pin, unless their length is excessive. After the ceremony, the \"taharah board\" is washed and dried, but is kept facing the same way, as there is a superstition with the belief that turning it the other way will cause another person to die within 3 days. Many communities have replaced the pouring of nine measures by immersion in a specially constructed mikveh.\n\nA more elaborate ceremony, known as the \"grand washing\" (\"rehizah gedolah\"), is available for the corpses of the more significant individuals; Hillel the Elder is traditionally credited with its invention. According to this latter form of ceremony, the water used for washing was perfumed by rose, myrtle, or aromatic spices; the use of spices was an ancient practice, and the Mishnah especially mentions the washing ceremonies using myrtle.\n\nThe biblical regulations of Yom Kippur require the officiating Jewish High Priest to bathe himself in water after sending off the scapegoat to Azazel, and a similar requirement was imposed on the person who led the scapegoat away, and the person who burned the sacrifices during the rituals of the day. The Mishnah states that the High Priest had to immerse himself five times, and his hands and feet had to be washed ten times.\n\nIn modern Orthodox Judaism, there is a widespread minhag for the laity including men to immerse themselves on the day prior to Yom Kippur and often do so before the three pilgrimage festivals, and before Rosh Hashanah; some Haredi Jews additionally immerse themselves at least before a Shabbat, and some Hasidic Jews do so daily before morning prayers.\n\nBoth Orthodox and Conservative Judaism currently have multiple views on the reason for contemporary observance of ritual washing and immersion obligation.\n\nIn Orthodox Judaism, opinion is generally split between a view that maintains that those Biblical rules related to ritual purity that are possible to observe in the absence of a Temple and a Red heifer remain in force and Jews remain Biblically obligated to observe such of them as they can, and a view that Biblical ritual impurity requirements apply only in the presence of a Temple in Jerusalem and the current rules represent only rabbinic ordinances, practices decreed by the Rabbis in memory of the Temple.\n\nIn December 2006, Conservative Judaism's Committee on Jewish Law and Standards issued three responsa on the subject of Niddah. All three ruled the traditional requirements of ritual washing remained in effect for Conservative Jews (with some leniencies and liberalization of interpretation), but disagreed on the reasoning for continuing this practices as well as on the validity of specific leniencies. Two of the opinions reflect reasoning similar to the respective Orthodox views (Biblical requirements or rabbinic ordinances enacted in remembrance of the Temple.) A third opinion expressed the view that Conservative Judaism should disconnect ritual purity practices from the Temple in Jerusalem or its memory, and offered a new approach based on what it called the concept of holiness rather than the concept of purity. Thus, Conservative ideology, under its philosophy of pluralism, supports a range of views on this subject, from views similar to the Orthodox view to views expressing a need for a contemporary reorientation. Most Conservative Jews do not observe the laws of niddah.\n\nAccording to the editors of the 1906 Jewish Encyclopedia, the phrase \"netilat yadaim\" referring to washing of the hands, literally \"lifting of the hands\", is derived either from Psalm 134:2, or from the Greek word \"natla\" (αντλίον in Hebrew נַטְלָה), in reference to the jar of water used. The Jewish Encyclopedia states that many historic Jewish writers, and particularly the Pharisees, took it to mean that water had to be poured out onto uplifted hands, and that they could not be considered clean until water had reached the wrist. This is commented on by the Synoptic Gospels, which state that these groups didn't eat until they had washed their hands to the wrist, but the Gospels castigates them for this, arguing that it was only followed as an ostentatious tradition, ignoring religious obligations, and that washing the hands was worthless without inward religious obligations also being adhered to, and insignificant if the inward obligations, such as giving all of one's possessions to the poor, were followed.\n\nAccording to the Jewish Encyclopedia, the historic requirement for priests to first wash their hands, together with the classical rabbinical belief that non-priest were also required to wash their hands before taking part in a holy act, such as prayer, was adhered to very strongly, to the extent that Christianity adopted the practice, and provided worshippers with fountains and basins of water in Churches, in a similar manner to the \"Molten Sea\" in the Jerusalem Temple functioning as a laver. Although Christianity did not adopt the requirement for priests to wash feet before worship, in Islam the practice was extended to the congregation and expanded into wudu.\n\nAccording to Peake's Commentary on the Bible, Biblical scholars regard the requirement of Kohanim washing their hands prior to the Priestly Blessing as an example of the taboo against the profane making contact with the sacred, and similar practices are present in other religions of the period and region. The Jewish Encyclopedia relates that according to Herodotus the Egyptian priests were required to wash themselves twice a day and twice a night in cold water, and according to Hesiod the Greeks were forbidden from pouring out the \"black wine\" to any deity in the morning, unless they had first washed their hands.\n\nAccording to the 1906 Jewish encyclopedia, The Letter of Aristeas states that creators of the Septuagint washed their hands in the sea each morning before prayer; Josephus states that this custom was the reason for the traditional location of synagogues near water.\nBiblical scholars regard this custom as an imitation by the laity of the behaviour of the priests. A baraita offers, as justification for the ritual of hand-washing after waking, the belief that a spirit of impurity rests upon each person during the night, and will not leave until the person's hands are washed, and the Zohar argues that body is open to demonic possession during sleep because the soul temporarily leaves the body during it; the kabbalah argues that death awaits anyone who walks more than four yards from their bed without ablution. According to , the cup containing the water has to be able to carry a certain amount of water, and it should have two handles.\n\nAccording to Peake's commentary on the Bible, the Priestly Code specifies that individuals were \"washed\" before they could become members of the Jewish priesthood, and similarly requires Levites to be \"cleansed\" before they assume their work.\nPeake's commentary states that although Biblical rules regarding ritual purification following bodily discharges clearly have sanitory uses, they ultimately originated from the taboos against contact with blood and semen, due to the belief that these contained life, more than any other bodily fluid, or any other aspect of the body.\n\nRabbi Aryeh Kaplan in \"Waters of Life\" connects the laws of impurity to the narrative in the beginning of Genesis. According to Genesis, Adam and Eve had brought death into the world by eating from the Tree of Knowledge. Kaplan points out that most of the laws of impurity relate to some form of death (or in the case of \"niddah\" the loss of a potential life). One who comes into contact with one of the forms of death must then immerse in water which is described in Genesis as flowing out of the Garden of Eden (the source of life) in order to cleanse oneself of this contact with death (and by extension of sin).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "608190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=608190", "title": "Roman Catholic Bishop of Nottingham", "text": "Roman Catholic Bishop of Nottingham\n\nThe Bishop of Nottingham is the Ordinary of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Nottingham in the Province of Westminster.\n\nThe diocese covers an area of and spans the counties of Derbyshire (excluding the High Peak and Chesterfield districts), Leicestershire, Lincolnshire, Nottinghamshire (excluding the district of Bassetlaw) and North Lincolnshire. The see is in the City of Nottingham where the bishop's seat is located at the Cathedral Church of St. Barnabas, Nottingham. \n\nThe Diocese of Nottingham was erected on 29 September 1850, mainly from out of the Vicariate Apostolic of the Central District, and partly from the Eastern District. \n"}
{"id": "5984994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5984994", "title": "Saisen", "text": "Saisen\n\nIn Japanese, is money offered to the gods or bodhisattvas. Commonly this money is put in a , a common item at Shinto shrines and Buddhist temples in Japan.\n\nUsed to collect offerings, a \"saisen\" box is typically a wooden coin box, with a grate for the top cover. This design allows coins to be tossed in, while still preventing the money from being retrieved easily. Some have grates made of round bars, or have borders that slope downward, allowing the money to slide into the box easily.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6672192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6672192", "title": "Sajid dynasty", "text": "Sajid dynasty\n\nThe Sajid dynasty (), was an Iranian Muslim dynasty that ruled from 889-890 until 929. Sajids ruled Azerbaijan and parts of Armenia first from Maragha and Barda and then from Ardabil. The Sajids originated from the Central Asian province of Ushrusana and were of Iranian (Sogdian) descent. Muhammad ibn Abi'l-Saj Diwdad the son of Diwdad, the first Sajid ruler of Azerbaijan, was appointed as its ruler in 889 or 890. Muhammad's father Abu'l-Saj Devdad had fought under the Ushrusanan prince Afshin Khaydar during the latter's final campaign against the rebel Babak Khorramdin in Azerbaijan, and later served the caliphs. Toward the end of the 9th century, as the central authority of the Abbasid Caliphate weakened, Muhammad was able to form a virtually independent state. Much of the Sajids' energies were spent in attempting to take control of neighboring Armenia. The dynasty ended with the death of Abu'l-Musafir al-Fath in 929.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30435", "title": "Thunderbird (mythology)", "text": "Thunderbird (mythology)\n\nThe thunderbird is a legendary creature in certain North American indigenous peoples' history and culture. It is considered a supernatural being of power and strength. It is especially important, and frequently depicted, in the art, songs and oral histories of many Pacific Northwest Coast cultures, but is also found in various forms among some peoples of the American Southwest, East Coast of the United States, Great Lakes, and Great Plains.\n\nIn Algonquian mythology, the thunderbird controls the upper world while the underworld is controlled by the underwater panther or Great Horned Serpent. The thunderbird throws lightning at the underwater creatures and creates thunder by flapping its wings. Thunderbirds in this tradition are commonly depicted as having an X-shaped appearance. This varies from a simple X to recognizable birds. The X-shaped thunderbird is often used to depict the thunderbird with its wings alongside its body and the head facing forwards instead of in profile.\n\nThe Menominee of Northern Wisconsin tell of a great mountain that floats in the western sky on which dwell the thunderbirds. They control the rain and hail and delight in fighting and deeds of greatness. They are the enemies of the great horned snakes - the Misikinubik - and have prevented these from overrunning the earth and devouring mankind. They are messengers of the Great Sun himself.\n\nThe Ojibwe version of the myth states that the thunderbirds were created by Nanabozho for the purpose of fighting the underwater spirits. They were also used to punish humans who broke moral rules. The thunderbirds lived in the four directions and arrived with the other birds in the springtime. In the fall they migrated south after the ending of the underwater spirits' most dangerous season.\n\nWinnebago tradition states that a man who has a vision of a thunderbird during a solitary fast will become a war chief.\n"}
{"id": "6584582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6584582", "title": "Toba Khedoori", "text": "Toba Khedoori\n\nToba Khedoori (born 1964 in Australia) is an artist of Iraqi heritage, known primarily for highly detailed mixed-media paintings executed on large sheets of wax-coated paper.\n\nKhedoori was born in Sydney of Jewish-Iraqi parentage and raised in Australia, and currently lives and works in Los Angeles, California. She received her MFA from UCLA in 1994. She is the identical twin sister of artist Rachel Khedoori.\n\nCharacteristically, Khedoori's works have comprised intricate details, models or architectural renderings set within the broad expanses of waxed paper or linen. This delicate combination frequently necessitates close viewing which results, then, in the works filling the spectator's entire field of vision. In recent years, Khedoori's works have introduced inversions of the more usual black detail on white expanse, incorporated natural imagery and landscape, and also taken the form of dramatically smaller-scale works than those hitherto produced. Her most recent output has also moved from wax-on-paper into oil and canvas, with subject matter drawing influence from geometric sequences.\n\nToba Khedoori is represented by Regen Projects, Los Angeles and David Zwirner, New York.\n\nKhedoori began exhibiting in 1993, and was shown early in her career at the 1995 Whitney Biennial exhibition. Khedoori has since had solo exhibitions at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, in the St. Louis Art Museum, the Whitechapel Art Gallery in London, the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, and the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington D.C., among others. Khedoori's work is in the permanent collections of the Museum of Modern Art and the Whitney Museum of Art in New York, as well as the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. \nHer work will be included in the 53rd International Venice Biennale, Venice 2009.\n\nKhedoori was awarded a $500,000 MacArthur Fellowship in 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "632093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=632093", "title": "Transcendental Meditation movement", "text": "Transcendental Meditation movement\n\nThe Transcendental Meditation movement (also referred to as Transcendental Meditation or TM) refers to the programs and organizations connected with the Transcendental Meditation technique founded by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi in India in the 1950s. The organization was estimated to have 900,000 participants in 1977, a million by the 1980s, and 5 million in more recent years.\n\nPrograms include the Transcendental Meditation technique, an advanced meditation practice called the TM-Sidhi program (\"Yogic Flying\"), an alternative health care program called Maharishi Ayurveda, and a system of building and architecture called Maharishi Sthapatya Ved. The TM movement's past and present media endeavors include a publishing company (MUM Press), a television station (KSCI), a radio station (KHOE), and a satellite television channel (Maharishi Channel). Its products and services have been offered primarily through nonprofit and educational outlets, such as the Global Country of World Peace, and the David Lynch Foundation.\n\nThe TM movement also operates a worldwide network of Transcendental Meditation teaching centers, schools, universities, health centers, and herbal supplement, solar panel, and home financing companies, plus several TM-centered communities. The global organization is reported to have an estimated net worth of USD 3.5 billion. The TM movement has been characterized in a variety of ways and has been called a spiritual movement, a new religious movement, a millenarian movement, a world affirming movement, a new social movement, a guru-centered movement, a personal growth movement, a religion, and a cult. Participation in TM programs does not require a belief system and is practiced by people from a diverse group of religious affiliations.\n\nMaharishi Mahesh Yogi began teaching Transcendental Meditation in India in the late 1950s. The Maharishi began a series of world tours in 1958 to promote his meditation technique. The resulting publicity generated by the Maharishi, the celebrities who learned the technique and the scientific research into its effect, helped popularize the technique in the 1960s and 1970s. In the 1970s the Maharishi introduced advanced meditative techniques and his movement grew to encompass TM programs for schools, universities and prisons. In the 1980s additional programs aimed at improved health and well-being were developed based on the Maharishi's interpretation of the Vedic traditions. By the late 2000s, TM had been taught to millions of individuals and the Maharishi oversaw a large multinational movement which has continued since his death in 2008. The Maharishi's obituary in the \"New York Times\" credited the TM movement as being \"a founding influence on what has grown into a multibillion-dollar self-help industry\".\n\nThe TM movement has been described as a \"global movement\" that utilizes its own international policies and transports its \"core members\" from country to country. It is said to be a \"world affirming\" and \"accommodating\" movement that does not seek to interfere with its member's involvement in their various religions.\n\nIn 2008, \"The New York Times\", reported that TM's \"public interest\" had continued to grow in the 1970s\" however, some practitioners were discouraged \"by the organization's promotion of ...Yogic Flying.\" The organization was estimated to have 900,000 participants worldwide in 1977 according to new religious movement scholars Stark, Bainbridge and Sims. That year the TM movement said there were 394 TM centers in the U.S., that about half of the 8,000 trained TM teachers were still active, and that one million Americans had been taught the technique. The movement was reported to have a million participants by the 1980s, and modern day estimates range between four and ten million practitioners worldwide. As of 1998, the country with the largest percentage of TM practitioners was Israel, where 50,000 people had learned the technique since its introduction in the 1960s, according members of the TM movement. In 2008, the \"Belfast Telegraph\" reported that an estimated 200,000 Britons practiced TM.\n\nThe TM movement is said to have a flexible structure that allows varying degrees of commitment. Many are satisfied with their \"independent practice of TM\" and don't seek any further involvement with the organization. For many TM practitioners their meditation is \"one of many New Age products that they consume.\" Other practitioners are \"dedicated\" but are also critical of the organization. Still others, are \"highly devoted\" and participate in \"mass meditations\" at Maharishi University of Management, perform administrative activities or engage in a monastic lifestyle. Likewise the organization has a \"loose organisational heirarchy [\"sic\"] \". Transcendental Meditators who participate in group meditations at Maharishi University of Management are referred to as \"Citizens of the Age of Enlightenment\". Regional leaders and \"leading Transcendental Meditators\" trained as TM teachers and graduates of the TM-Sidhi program are called \"Governors of the Age of Enlightenment\". There are also \"national leaders\" and \"top officials\" of the \"World Peace Government\" that are called Rajas.\n\nNotable practitioners include: politicians John Hagelin and Joaquim Chissano, musicians Donovan, The Beatles, Sky Ferreira, Mike Love and celebrities David Lynch, Clint Eastwood, Mia Farrow, Howard Stern and Doug Henning. Practitioners who became spiritual teachers or self-help authors include Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, Deepak Chopra, John Gray and Barbara De Angelis.\n\nTM initiated celebrities include: Gwyneth Paltrow, Ellen DeGeneres, Russell Simmons, Katy Perry, Susan Sarandon, Candy Crowley, Soledad O’Brien, George Stephanopoulos and Paul McCartney’s grandchildren. As of 2013, Jerry Seinfeld had been practicing TM for over 40 years.\n\nOprah Winfrey and Dr. Oz dedicated an entire show to T.M.\n\nThe Transcendental Meditation technique is a specific form of mantra meditation developed by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. It is often referred to as Transcendental Meditation or simply, TM. The meditation practice involves the use of a mantra, and is practiced for 15–20 minutes twice per day, while sitting with closed eyes. It is reported to be one of the most widely practiced, and among the most widely researched, meditation techniques, with hundreds of studies published. The technique is made available worldwide by certified TM teachers in a seven step course and fees vary from country to country. Beginning in 1965, the Transcendental Meditation technique has been incorporated into selected schools, universities, corporations and prison programs in the United States, Latin America, Europe, and India. In 1977, the TM technique and the Science of Creative Intelligence were deemed religious activities as taught in two New Jersey public schools. Subsequently the TM technique has received some governmental support.\n\nThe Transcendental Meditation technique has been described as both religious and non religious. The technique has been described in various ways including as an aspect of a New Religious Movement, as rooted in Hinduism, and as a non-religious practice for self development. The public presentation of the TM technique over its 50-year history has been praised for its high visibility in the mass media and effective global propagation, and criticized for using celebrity and scientific endorsements as a marketing tool. Advanced courses supplement the TM technique and include an advanced meditation called the TM-Sidhi program. In 1970, the Science of Creative Intelligence (SCI) became the theoretical basis for the Transcendental Meditation technique, although skeptics questioned its scientific nature. According to proponents, when 1 percent of a population (such as a city or country) practices the TM technique daily, their practice influences the quality of life for that population. This has been termed the Maharishi Effect.\n\nTranscendental Meditation in education (also known as Consciousness Based Education) is the application of the Transcendental Meditation technique in an educational setting or institution. These educational programs and institutions have been founded in the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, India, Africa and Japan. The Transcendental Meditation technique became popular with students in the 1960s and by the early 1970s centers for the Students International Meditation Society were established at a thousand campuses in the United States, with similar growth occurring in Germany, Canada and Britain. The Maharishi International University was established in 1973 in the United States and began offering accredited, degree programs. In 1977 courses in Transcendental Meditation and the Science of Creative Intelligence (SCI) were legally prohibited from New Jersey (US) public high schools on religious grounds by virtue of the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment. This \"dismantled\" the TM program's use of government funding in U.S. public schools but did not render \"a negative evaluation of the program itself\". Since 1979, schools that incorporate the Transcendental Meditation technique using private, non-governmental funding have been reported in the United States, South America, Southeast Asia, Northern Ireland, South Africa and Israel.\nA number of educational institutions have been founded by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, the Transcendental Meditation movement and its supporters. These institutions include several schools offering public and private secondary education in the United States (Maharishi School of the Age of Enlightenment), England (Maharishi School), Australia, South Africa (Maharishi Invincibility School of Management), and India (Maharishi Vidya Mandir Schools). Likewise, Maharishi colleges and universities have been established including Maharishi European Research University (Netherlands), Maharishi Institute of Management (India), Maharishi Institute of Management (India), Maharishi University of Management and Technology (India), Maharishi Institute (South Africa) and Maharishi Mahesh Yogi Vedic University (India). In the United States, critics have called Transcendental Meditation a revised form of Eastern, religious philosophy and opposed its use in public schools while a member of the Pacific Justice Institute says practicing Transcendental Meditation in public schools with private funding is constitutional.\n\nThe TM-Sidhi program is a form of meditation introduced by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi in 1975. It is based on, and described as a natural extension of the Transcendental Meditation technique (TM). The goal of the TM-Sidhi program is to enhance mind-body coordination and to support the \"holistic development of consciousness\" by training the mind to think from what the Maharishi called a fourth state of consciousness. \"Yogic Flying\", a mental-physical exercise of hopping while cross-legged, is a central aspect of the TM-Sidhi program. The TM website says that \"research has shown a dramatic and immediate reduction in societal stress, crime, violence, and conflict—and an increase in coherence, positivity, and peace in society as a whole\" when the TM-Sidhi program is practiced in groups. This is termed the Maharishi Effect. While empirical studies have been published in peer-reviewed academic journals they have been met with both skepticism and criticism. Skeptics have called TM's associated theories of the Science of Creative Intelligence and the Maharishi Effect, \"pseudoscience\". It is difficult to determine definitive effects of meditation practices in healthcare as the quality of research has design limitations and a lack of methodological rigor.\n\nMaharishi Ayurveda, also known as Maharishi Vedic Approach to Health and Maharishi Vedic Medicine is considered an alternative medicine designed as a complementary system to modern western medicine. The approach was founded internationally in the mid 1980s by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. The Maharishi's revised system of Ayurveda was endorsed by the \"All India Ayurvedic Congress\" in 1997. The Transcendental Meditation technique is part of the Maharishi Vedic Approach to Health (MVAH).\nAccording to the movement's Global Good News website, there are 23 Maharishi Vedic Health Centres in 16 countries, including Austria, France, Denmark, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, and the United States. The Maharishi Ayurvedic Centre in Skelmersdale, UK also offers panchakarma detoxification.\n\nMaharishi Sthapatya Veda (MSV) is a set of architectural and planning principles assembled by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi based on \"ancient Sanskrit texts\" as well as Vastu Shastra, the Hindu science of architecture. Maharishi Sthapatya Veda architecture is also called \"Maharishi Vastu\" architecture, \"Fortune-Creating\" buildings and homes, and \"Maharishi Vedic architecture\". According to its self-description, the system consists of \"precise mathematical formulas, equations, and proportions\" for architectural design and construction. MSV has strict rules governing the orientation and proportions of a building. The most important factor is the entrance, which must be either due east or due north. The MSV architect also considers the slope and shape of the lot, exposure to the rising sun, location of nearby bodies of water and the other buildings or activities in the nearby environment. MSV emphasizes the use of natural or \"green\" building materials. The TM movement's aspiration is to have global reconstruction to create east-facing entrances, at an estimated cost of $300 trillion.\n\nAbout 3,000 TM practitioners are estimated to live near MUM and the Golden Domes in Fairfield, Iowa, US, an area dubbed \"Silicorn Valley\" by locals. By 2001, Fairfield's mayor and some city council members were TM practitioners. Just outside the city limits is Maharishi Vedic City. The city's 2010 population of 1,294 includes about 1,000 pandits from India who live on a special campus. The city plan and buildings are based on Maharishi Sthapatya Veda, an ancient system of architecture and design revived by the Maharishi. Housing developments outside of city limits are also seeking to combine Maharishi Vedic precepts of design with the latest sustainability technologies.\n\nA community called Sidhadorp was established in the Netherlands in 1979 and reached its completion in 1985. Around the same time Sidhaland, in Skelmersdale UK was established with about 400 TM practitioners, a meditation dome, and a TM school. There is also a 30-home settlement in Rendlesham, Suffolk and a housing project in Lelystad, the Netherlands. Hararit () is a settlement in Galilee, Israel founded in 1980, as part of a \"government-sponsored project\" by a group of Jewish practitioners of the Transcendental Meditation program. It is the home for about 60 families. There are several residential facilities in India, including a compound in \"Maharishi Nagar\", near Noida. There is a 70-unit development, Ideal Village Co-Op Inc, in Orleans, Ontario, a suburb of Ottawa, where 75 percent of the residents have been TM meditators.\n\nPurusha and Mother Divine are the names of gender specific communities who lead a lifestyle of celibacy and meditation. Some residents have been part of the community for 20 years or more.\n\nIn 1990 the Purusha community consisted of 200 men who conducted \"administrative and promotional details\" for the Maharishi's worldwide organization. The Purusha group was originally located at the Spiritual Center of America in Boone, North Carolina, US. As of 2002 there were 300 male residents whose daily routine consisted of meditation from 7 am to 11:30 am and another group meditation in the evening. The rest of the day was taken up by lunch, educational presentations, fundraising and work for \"non-profit entities associated with the Spiritual Center\". The residents also read Vedic literature, studied Sanskrit, received monthly instruction from the Maharishi via teleconference and engaged in discourse with faculty of Maharishi University of Management. As of 2007, there was also a Purusha community of 59 men in Uttarkashi, India. In 2012 the USA Purusha group moved to a newly constructed campus called the West Virginia Retreat Center, located in Three Churches, West Virginia, US. The campus consists of 10 buildings and 90 males residents plus staff.\n\nAs of 2002 the 100 resident Mother Divine community for women was also located at the Spiritual Center in Boone, North Carolina as part of an organization called Maharishi Global Administration Through Natural Law. Their daily routine was similar to the Purúsha community and in addition they operated The Heavenly Mountain Ideal Girls' School, a fully accredited North Carolina non-public school for grades 9 through 12.\n\nMaharishi International University (MIU) Press was founded in the 1970s and operated a full-scale printing operation to publish the organization's brochures and literature for the United States. The Press employed four printing presses and 55 employees and was located at the Academy for the Science of Creative Intelligence in Livingston Manor, New York. MIU Press later became Maharishi University of Management (MUM) Press. MUM Press published books, academic papers, audio and video recordings and other educational materials. These materials include the \"Modern Science and Vedic Science\" journal and books by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, John Hagelin, Tony Nader, Robert Roth, Craig Pearson, Robert Oates, Ashley Deans, and Robert Keith Wallace as well as ancient Sanskrit works by Bādarāyaṇa, Kapila, and Jaimini. In addition their World Plan Television Productions contained a film library and audio and TV production studios, with $2 million worth of equipment, which distributed 1,000 videos each month to their TM teaching centers.\n\nIn 1975, the television station called channel 18 became KSCI and began production from a studio in West Los Angeles, while still licensed in San Bernardino. The station became a non-profit owned by the Transcendental Meditation movement and the call letters stood for Maharishi Mahesh Yogi's theoretical \"Science of Creative Intelligence\". The station broadcast began with 56 hours per week of \"uplifting\" news stories, prerecorded lectures by the Maharishi and variety shows featuring celebrities who practiced the Transcendental Meditation technique. KSCI's goal was to report \"only good news\" and seven sister stations were planned including San Francisco, Washington, D.C. and Buffalo, New York. The station manager was Mark Fleischer, the son of Richard Fleischer, a Hollywood director. The Los Angeles location leased $95,000 worth of equipment and its highest paid staff member earned $6,000 according to tax documents.\n\nIn 1980 the station switched to for-profit status and earned $1 million on revenues of $8 million in 1985. In November, owners of the KSCI TV station loaned $350,000 to Maharishi International University in Iowa. As of June 1986 the station's content consisted of \"a hodgepodge of programming in 14 languages\" that was broadcast on both cable and UHF in Southern California. In October, the station was purchased by its general manager and an investor for $40.5 million.\n\nKHOE, is a low-power, non-profit radio station belonging to Maharishi University of Management (MUM), which began broadcasting in 1994. The station features music and educational entertainment from around the globe including American music and cultural and ethnic programming. MUM's international students present music, poetry and literature from their native countries.\nKHOE also broadcasts classical Indian (Maharishi Ghandarva Veda) music 24 hours per day on a special sideband.\n\nMaharishi Veda Vision is a satellite broadcast that began in 1998 with three hours of evening programming. Programing expanded to 24 hours a day by 1999. Maharishi Veda Vision was described as India's first religious television channel. The Maharishi Channel Cable Network, owned by Maharishi Satellite Network, was reported to have moved to Ku band digital satellites in 2001. While providing Vedic wisdom in 19 languages, most of the channel's programming was in Hindi and was intended for the worldwide non-resident Indian population. By 2002 the channel was carried on eight satellites serving 26 countries. The channel had no advertisements, depending on a \"huge network of organisations, products and services\" for support. In 2005, the channel was among several religious channels vying to get space on DD Direct+. Additional channels are broadcast over satellite as part of the Maharishi Open University's distance learning program, which also has studio facilities at Maharishi Vedic City in Iowa. The Maharishi Channel, which originates in the Netherlands, had a pending request for a downlink to India as of July 2009. According to its website, Ramraj TV is being established in India to introduce Vedic principles and practical programmes to the \"World Family\". As of August 2010, it is only available on the Internet. On a webpage last updated August 2009, the channel says it is in the process of obtaining a license from the Indian Government for a satellite uplink and downlink.\n\nThe International Foundation for the Science of Creative Intelligence (IFSCI). American versions and additions to these organizations included the Spiritual Regeneration Movement Foundation (SRMF), the World Plan Executive Council which was established to serve as a guide for the movement there and the American Foundation for the Science of Creative Intelligence, for people in business and education. Active international organizations include the International Meditation Society, Maharishi Foundation, Global Country of World Peace and the David Lynch Foundation.\n\nIn 2007, the organization's \"worldwide network\" was reported to be primarily financed through courses in the Transcendental Meditation technique with additional income from donations and real estate assets. Valuations for the organization are US$300 million in the United States and $3.5 billion worldwide.\n\nThe Spiritual Regeneration Movement was established in India in 1958 and the Spiritual Regeneration Movement Foundation (SRMF) was incorporated in California, US, in July 1959 as a non-profit organization, with its headquarters in Los Angeles. SRMF's articles of incorporation describe the corporate purpose as educational and spiritual. Article 11 of the articles of incorporation read: \"this corporation is a religious one. The educational purpose shall be to give instruction in a simple system of meditation\". The SRMF corporation was later dissolved. SRM offered TM courses to individuals \"specifically interested in personal development in the context of a spiritual, holistic approach to knowledge\". SRM addressed a smaller and older segment of the population as compared with subsequent organizations such as the International Meditation Society and the Students International Meditation Society. According to British author Una Kroll, SRM was not a community and in the early 1970s the organization \"cast off its semi-religious clothing and pursued science in a big way\".\n\nIn January 2012 the Pioneer News Service, New Delhi, reported that several trusts, including the SRM Foundation of India, had become \"non-functional\" after the death of the Maharishi in 2008 and were immersed in controversy after trust members alleged that parcels of land had been \"illegally sold off\" by other trust members without proper authorization. In June the dispute was reported to be specifically between members of the SRM Foundation India, board of directors, over control of the foundation's assets, including 12,000 acres of land spread around India. The two factions had accused each other of forging documents and selling land for \"personal gains\" without the sanction of the entire 12-member board. The two parties petitioned the Indian courts for a stay of all land sales until the Department and the Ministry of Home Affairs could conduct an investigation of the alleged improprieties. The newspaper went on to report that only four years after the Maharishi's death, his Indian legacy was \"in tatters\".\nIn 1959 the Maharishi went to England and established the British arm of the International Meditation Society with an additional office in San Francisco California, US. The International Meditation Society was founded in the U.S. in 1961 to offer both beginning and advanced courses in Transcendental Meditation to the general public. As of 2007 it was still an active organization in Israel.\n\nThe Students International Meditation Society (SIMS) was first established in Germany in 1964. A United States chapter was created in 1965 and offered courses to students and the youth of society. The UCLA (University of California, Los Angeles) chapter of SIMS, which had 1,000 members, was founded by Peter Wallace and his brother Robert Keith Wallace, the first president of Maharishi International University. In the 1970s, SIMS centers were established at \"over one thousand campuses\" in the United States, and similar growth occurred in Germany, Canada and Britain.\n\nTranscendental Meditation has been utilized in corporations, both in the United States and in India, under the auspices of the and the Maharishi Development Corporation. In India a number of companies provide the TM technique to their managers. These companies include AirTel, Siemens, American Express, SRF Limited, Wipro, Hero Honda, Ranbaxy, Hewlett Packard, BHEL, BPL Group, ESPN Star Sports, Tisco, Eveready, Maruti, Godrej Group and Marico. The employees at Marico practice Transcendental Meditation in groups as part of their standard workday. The US branch of the organization is called the American Foundation for the Science of Creative Intelligence (AFSCI) and as of 1975 it had conducted TM courses at General Foods, AT&T Corporation Connecticut General Life Insurance Company and Blue Cross/Blue Shield. As of 2001, US companies such as General Motors and IBM were subsidizing the TM course fee for their employees. The organization has been described as one of several \"holistic health groups\" that attempted to incorporate elements of psychology and spirituality into healthcare.\n\nThe Maharishi Corporate Development Program is another international non-profit organization that offers the TM program to people in industry and business. According to religious scholar Christopher Partridge, \"hundreds\" of Japanese business' have incorporated the meditation programs offered by Maharishi Corporate Development International including Sumitomo Heavy Industries Ltd. In 1995 the Fortune Motor Co. of Taiwan reportedly had a 100% increase in sales after participating in the program. The \"Washington Post\" reported in 2005, that US real estate developer, The Tower Companies, had added classes in Transcendental Meditation to their employee benefit program with 70% participation.\n\nThe World Plan Executive Council's (WPEC) international headquarters were located in Seelisberg, Switzerland and its American headquarters in Washington, D.C. The organization name was taken from the Maharishi's \"world plan\", which aimed to develop the full potential of the individual; improve governmental achievements; realize the highest ideal of education; eliminate the problems of crime and all behavior that brings unhappiness to the family of man; maximize the intelligent use of the environment; bring fulfillment to the economic aspirations of individuals and society; and achieve the spiritual goals of mankind in this generation. It provided courses in the Transcendental Meditation technique and other related programs.\n\nIt was founded in Italy in 1972 and by 1992 had organized twenty-five TM centers with thirty-five thousand participants in that country. In 1998 the World Plan Executive Council Australia (WPECA) sought the approval of the New South Wales Labor Council (NSWLC) to allow a resort on property owned by NSWLC.\n\nThe World Plan Executive Council (WPEC) was established in the U.S. as a non-profit educational corporation to guide its Transcendental Meditation movement. Its president was an American and former news reporter named Jerry Jarvis and the Maharishi is reported to have had \"no legal, official or paid relationship with WPEC\". WPEC was an umbrella organization and operated almost exclusively on revenues generated from TM course fees. It featured corporate trappings such as \"computerized mailings, high-speed communications, links, even a well-turned medical and life insurance plan for its employees\". WPEC supervised the 375 urban TM centers as well as several failed resorts that were purchased or leased as \"forest academies\" for in-residence meditation classes and courses. It had $40 million in tax exempt revenues from 1970 to 1974 and in 1975 it had $12 million in annual revenues but did not employ any outside public relations firm.\nIn 1985, a civil suit were filed against the World Plan Executive Council, in the United States by Robert Kropinski, Jane Greene, Patrick Ryan and Diane Hendel claiming fraud and psychological, physical, and emotional harm as a result of the Transcendental Meditation and TM-Sidhi programs. The district court dismissed Kropinski's claims concerning intentional tort and negligent infliction of emotional distress, and referred the claims of fraud and negligent infliction of physical and psychological injuries to a jury trial. The jury awarded Kropinski $137,890 in the fraud and negligence claims. The appellate court overturned the award and dismissed Kropinski's claim alleging psychological damage. The claim of fraud and the claim of a physical injury related to his practice of the TM-Sidhi program were remanded to the lower court for retrial. Kropinski, Green, Ryan and the defendants settled the remaining claims out of court on undisclosed terms. The remaining suit by Hendel, not included in the settlement, was later dismissed because the claims were barred by the statute of limitations. In affirming the dismissal, the Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit held that Hendel's claims were time-barred under the discovery rule because \"...the defendants made representations which any reasonable person would recognize as being contrary to common human experience and, indeed, to the laws of physics. If, as Ms. Hendel alleges, she was told that meditators would slowly rise in the air, and that some of them were 'flying over Lake Lucern' or 'walking through walls, hovering, and becoming invisible,' and that her failure to go to bed on time could bring about World War III, then a reasonable person would surely have noticed, at some time prior to September 1, 1986, that some of these representations might not be true.\"\n\nIn the 1990s WPEC in the United States became the parent company to an American, for-profit, hotel subsidiary called Heaven on Earth Inns Corp. with Thomas M. Headley as its president. The Heaven on Earth Inns Corp. was reported to have purchased nine US hotels at cut-rate prices that year, including two in Ohio, one in Oklahoma and one in Omaha, Nebraska. The hotels were bought as facilities for TM classes and as income-producing operations for health-conscious travelers who preferred vegetarian meals, alcohol free environments and non-smoking accommodations. The following year WPEC purchased a hotel in Asbury Park, New Jersey and a \"shuttered\" hotel in St. Louis, Missouri. WPEC also \"took over\" Chicago's Blackstone Hotel via foreclosure in 1995.\n\nThe Maharishi Global Development Fund (MGDF) purchased the Clarion Hotel in Hartford, Connecticut, US, in 1995 for $1.5 million and sold it to Wonder Works Construction in 2011. In 2006 MGDF's assets were listed as $192.3 million with $51.4 million in income.\n\nMaharishi Foundation is an educational and charitable organization active in at least four countries. The Maharishi Foundation's headquarters resided at Mentmore Towers in Buckinghamshire beginning in 1978 and later moved to Skelmersdale, West Lancashire, England. According to its website, Maharishi Foundation is a \"registered, educational charity\" that was established in Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom in 1975. Its purpose is to advance public education by offering courses and services for human development including Transcendental Meditation. The foundation is said to promote Consciousness-Based Education and research on Transcendental Meditation by \"independent academic institutions\" and reported $7 million in revenues in 2010. Similar corporations include the Maharishi Foundation Incorporated in New Zealand and Maharishi Foundation U.S.A. Maharishi Foundation purchased the Kolleg St. Ludwig campus in 1984 for USD 900,000 and it became the Maharishi European Research University (MERU) campus as well as the Maharishi's movement headquarters and residence. The buildings were old, inefficient, in disrepair and did not meet the Maharishi Sthapatya Veda requirements of an east facing entrance. A 2006 report in the LA Times said the Maharishi's organization has been involved in a two year \"courtroom battle\" with preservationist who wanted to block the demolition of the Kollege St. Ludwig building which \"was abandoned in 1978\" by its previous owners. A three-story, canvas illustration of the intended replacement building was put up on the front side of the building but local government ordered its removal. According to a 2008 report, the MERU Foundation indicated it would consider leaving the site if permission to demolish the old building was not granted. In 2015, the old buildings were removed completely.\nBy 1996, it was referred to as the \"Maharishi Continental Capital of the Age of Enlightenment for Europe\". In 1998, the overall redevelopment plan for the location was budgeted at USD 50 million. Aerial photographs show the development of the site. Floodlights illuminated the new building constructed in 1997 and 164 flagpoles carried the flags of the world nations \"like a meditation-based United Nations.\" Local authorities later limited the use of floodlights and required removal of the flagpoles. Tony Nader was crowned Maharaja Raja Raam there in 2001, and it became a \"capital\" of the Global Country of World Peace. By 2006, the campus had 50 residents and had been visited by John Hagelin and Doug Henning in prior years.\n\nIn November 2011 Maharishi Foundation USA filed a lawsuit in Federal court against The Meditation House LLC for infringement of the foundation's Transcendental Meditation trademark which are licensed to select organizations. The foundation alleges that its \"credibility and positive image\" are being used to \"mislead customers\" while the defendant asserts the foundation has an unfair monopoly on an ancient technique.\n\nThis self described non-political, non-religious, global organization was formed in 1976 by the Maharishi As of 1985 the World Government of the Age of Enlightenment was administrated by its President, Thomas A. Headly. Its purpose was to teach the Science of Creative Intelligence and the Transcendental Meditation and TM-Sidhi programs and to accomplish the seven goals of the World Plan. In addition, the organization gave Maharishi Awards to several outstanding members of the community each year.\n\nMaharishi Heaven on Earth Development Corp. (MHOED) is a for-profit real estate developer associated with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi and his Transcendental Meditation movement. First founded in Malibu California in 1988, it has sought to build utopian projects in the U.S., Canada, and Africa with a long-term goal to \"reconstruct the entire world\", at an estimated cost of $100 trillion. The US arm planned to work with developers to build 50 \"Maharishi Cities of Immortals\" in the US and Canada. The Canadian arm bought and renovated the Fleck/Paterson House in Ottawa in 2002, earning the \"adaptive use award of excellence\" from the City. A subsidiary purchased land to build Maharishi Veda Land theme parks in Orlando, Florida and Niagara Falls, New York. The Dutch arm negotiated with the presidents of Zambia and Mozambique to acquire a quarter of the land in those countries in exchange for solving their problems.\n\nFounded in 1992, the Natural Law Party (NLP) was a transnational party based on the teachings of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. The party was founded on the concept that Natural Law is the organizing principle that governs the universe and that the problems of humanity are caused by people violating Natural Law. The NLP supported using scientifically verifiable procedures such as the Transcendental Meditation technique and TM-Sidhi program to reduce or eliminate the problems in society. The party was active in up to 74 countries and ran candidates in many countries including the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, Germany, Israel, and Taiwan.\n\nTwo of the most prominent candidates were John Hagelin, who campaigned for U.S. president in 1992, 1996 and 2004, and magician Doug Henning who ran for office in England. Electoral successes were achieved by the Ajeya Bharat Party in India, which elected a legislator to a state assembly, and by the Croatian NLP, which elected a member of a regional assembly in 1993. The party was disbanded in some countries beginning in 2004 but continues in India and in a few U.S. states.\n\nMaharishi Vedic Education Development Corporation (MVEDC) is a non-profit, American organization, incorporated in 1993 and headquartered in Fairfield, Iowa. Bevan G. Morris is the acting and founding president of the corporation and Richard Quinn is the director of project finance. MVED's primary purpose is the administration of Transcendental Meditation courses and training TM instructors in the United States. Courses in Transcendental Meditation are led by TM teachers trained by MVED. MVED also provides promotional literature to its teachers and TM centers.\n\nIn 1975 the US non-profit oversaw five owned properties and hundreds of rented facilities that offered meditation lectures and seminars. One facility located in Livingston Manor, New York housed a 350-room hotel, a printing press and a professional quality video and sound-recording studio. MVED is the sublicensee for many trademarks owned by the U.K. non-profit Maharishi Foundation Ltd. These trademarks include: Transcendental Meditation, TM-Sidhi, Yogic Flying and Maharishi Vedic Approach to Health.\n\nIn 2004, the lawsuit \"Butler vs. MUM\" alleged that MVED was guilty of negligent representation and had direct liability for the death of a Maharishi University of Management student. In 2008, all charges against MVED were dismissed and the law suit was dropped. According to journalist Anthony Barnett, the attacks led critics to question the movement's claims that group practice of advanced meditation techniques could end violence. Maharishi said of the incident that \"this is an aspect of the violence we see throughout society\", including the violence that the U.S. perpetrates in other countries.\n\nMVED has created educational enterprises, such as Maharishi Vedic University and Maharishi Medical Center, and has overseen the construction and development of Maharishi Peace Palaces owned by the Global Country of World Peace (GCWP) in 30 locations in the United States.\nMaharishi Peace Palaces, Transcendental Meditation Centers, Maharishi Enlightenment Centers, and Maharishi Invincibility Centers provide training and Maharishi Ayurveda treatments as well as serving as local centers for TM and TM-Sidhi practitioners.\n\nThe Maharishi Housing Development Finance Corporation (MHDFC) was established in India in 1997 and as of 2003 had 15 branch offices. In 2000 MHDFC began offering seven and 15-year loans and proposed a plan to offer 40-year mortgages. By 2003 the finance company had 15 branches across India, a loan portfolio of Rs104 crore, and the Maharishi University of Management of UK was listed as its majority owner. In 2009 Religare Enterprises Limited acquired an 87.5 percent stake in MHDFC and on that basis MHDFC received the highest quality credit rating from the ICRA in 2010.\n\nMaharishi Solar Technology (MST) is an Indian solar producer that makes modules, solar lanterns and pumps founded in 1999. MST has a vertically integrated facility for producing photovoltaic panels at Kalahasti in Andhra Pradesh, and is a core producer of the multicrystalline silicon wafers used to make them. MST is reported to be a \"venture of Maharishi group\" and has contracted with the US-based Abengoa Solar Inc to produce solar thermal collectors. MST's president, Prakash Shrivastava is a member of the Solar Energy Society of India's Governing Council. According to a press release published in Reuters, MST was included in the \"2011–2015 Deep Research Report on Chinese Solar Grade Polysilicon Industry\".\n\nThe Global Country of World Peace (GCWP) was declared by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, the founder of Transcendental Meditation, on Vijayadashami (Victory Day), 7 October 2000. He described it as \"a country without borders for peace loving people everywhere\". GCWP is structured as a kingdom, with Tony Nader as its current Maharaja or Sovereign Ruler. It became incorporated in the state of Iowa, US, on 15 October 2002 as a non-profit organization with Bevan Morris as its president. The corporation has its headquarters in Maharishi Vedic City, Iowa. It has, or is building, capitals in the Netherlands, Iowa, Kansas, West Virginia, Manhattan, and India. The GCWP has made various unsuccessful attempts at attaining sovereignty as a micronation during the years 2000 to 2002, offering sums in excess of $1 billion to small and impoverished countries in exchange for the sovereignty over part of their territory. It has a global reconstruction program which seeks to rebuild all of the cities and buildings in the world following Maharishi Sthapatya Veda principles.\n\nThe David Lynch Foundation For Consciousness-Based Education and World Peace is a charitable foundation based in Fairfield, Iowa, founded in 2005 and operating worldwide. The Foundation primarily funds at-risk students learning to meditate using the Transcendental Meditation program. Its other activities include funding research on Transcendental Meditation and fundraising with the long-term goal of raising $7 billion to establish seven affiliated \"Universities of World Peace\", to train students in seven different countries to become \"professional peacemakers\".\n\nThe Academic Meditation Society was launched in Germany in 1965 after 18 teaching centers had been established. In 1966–1967 the number of teaching centers increased to 35 and the society opened an \"academy\" in Bremen-Blumenthal.\n\nIn 2000, the Maharishi group launched the IT company Cosmic InfoTech solutions.[sic] The Maharishi Group Venture was reported in 2006 to be \"a non-profit, benevolent society based in India that aids students\". According to his bio at the Human Dimensions web site, Anand Shrivastava is the \"chairmen and managing director of the Maharishi Group of Companies\". According to the web sites of Picasso Animation College and Maharishi Ayurveda Products Ltd. the \"Maharishi Group is a multinational and multidimensional conglomerate with presence in over 120 countries\".[sic] \"In India, Maharishi organization is engaged in multifarious activities including education, health, technology development and social welfare. Maharishi Group is a multinational and multidimensional conglomerate with presence in over 120 countries.\" According to a report in Global Solar Technology, the Maharishi Group is \"India's leading International group with diversified interests\". A company called Maharishi Renewable Energy Ltd (MREL) was reported in 2009 to be \"part of $700 million Maharishi group\".\n\nIn 2008, a resident of Maharishi Vedic City, Iowa filed a lawsuit against the India based company, Maharishi Ayurveda Products Pvt Ltd. (MAPPL), alleging that she had received lead poisoning from one of their products which she had purchased on a trip to India.\n\nThe Institute for Fitness and Athletic Excellence is the American organization that offers the TM program to amateur and professional athletes. The Global Mother Divine Organization describes itself as \"an international non-profit organization that offers women\" the \"Transcendental Meditation technique and its advanced programs.\"\n\nThe World Center for Ayurveda was founded in India in 1985. Other active organizations include the Institute For Social Rehabilitation and the International Center for Scientific Research.\n\nMaharishi Information Technology Pvt. Ltd. (MITPL) was founded in 1999.\n\nThe public presentation of the TM technique has varied over its 50 year history. Some authors have praised its methods and success while others have criticized its marketing techniques. For example author G. Francis Xavier writes, the Maharishi is \"one of the best salesman\" and has made full use of the mass media to propagate TM around the world while authors Bainbridge and Stark criticize the TM movement for using endorsements from the scientific establishment as \"propaganda\", reprinting favorable articles and using positive statements by government officials in conjunction with their publicity efforts. On the other hand, cardiologist Stephen Sinatra and professor of medicine Marc Houston have said of the Maharishi: \"His emphasis on scientific research proved that the timeless practice of meditation was not just an arcane mystical activity for Himalayan recluses, but rather a mind-body method hugely relevant to and beneficial for modern society\".\n\nAccording to one account, the Maharishi beginning in 1959, began \"building an infrastructure\" using a \"mass marketing model\" for teaching the TM technique to Westerners. First, the Maharishi visited the U.S. because he felt that its people were ready to try something new, and the rest of the world would then \"take notice\". By the same token, author Philip Goldberg says the Maharishi's insistence that TM was easy to do was not a \"marketing ploy\", but rather \"a statement about the nature of the mind.\" In 1963 the Maharishi published his first book on Transcendental Meditation called \"The Science of Being and Art of Living\". In the mid-1960s, the TM organization began presenting its meditation to students via a campaign led by a man named Jerry Jarvis who had taken the TM course in 1961. By 1966, the Students Meditation Society (SIMS) had begun programs in U.S. colleges such as University of California, Berkeley, Harvard, Yale and others, and was a \"phenomenal success\".\n\nIn the late 1960s, the TM technique received \"major publicity\" through its associations with The Beatles, and by identifying itself with various aspects of modern day counterculture. However, Goldberg and others say that during the first decade of the TM organization, the Maharishi's main students in the West were not rock stars and their fans, but ordinary, middle-aged citizens. In the late 60's, young people coming to learn TM at the center in London, England, were surprised \"to be greeted not by fellow hippies but by the proper, middle-aged men and women who were Maharishi's earliest followers.\" Another author notes that, \"By the time the Beatles first met the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi in London in 1966, Mahesh had already made seven trips around the globe, established 38 centres, and amassed more than 100,000 followers.\"\n\nWhile Lennon and Harrison were in India in 1968 there were tensions with the Maharishi over business negotiations for a proposed documentary film and television show. The Beatles were surprised to find the Maharishi was a sophisticated negotiator with an interest in publicity, business and finances.\n\nTM is said to have taken full advantage of all available publicity, and began to market to specific populations, such as spiritual people, political people and \"pragmatic\" self-help people. The latter approach is said to have been \"given impetus\" by the scientific research on the technique. In \"The Future of Religion\", sociologists Bainbridge and Stark write that, while the movement attracted many people through endorsements from celebrities such as The Beatles, another marketing approach was \"getting articles published in scientific journals, apparently proving TM's claims or at least giving them scientific status\". In the 1970s, according to Philip Goldberg, the Maharishi began encouraging research on the TM technique because he felt that hard scientific data would be a useful marketing tool and a way to re-brand meditation as a scientific form of deep rest, rather than a mystical \"samadhi\"; one of his first steps in secularizing the technique. The Maharishi's \"appropriation of science was clearly part of his agenda from the beginning\" says Goldberg, and so his \"organization was incorporated as an educational non-profit, not a religious one\". The Maharishi asked people with marketing expertise, like SIMS president, Jarvis, to present TM as a method for inner peace and relaxation based on scientific proof and, because the TM technique was the first type of meditation to undergo scientific testing, it \"has always received the most publicity\".\n\nThe first peer-reviewed research on TM, conducted by physiologist Robert K. Wallace at UCLA, appeared in the journal \"Science\" in 1970. It attracted significant public and scientific attention. The study's findings were also published in the \"American Journal of Physiology\" in 1971, in \"Scientific American\" in 1972, and reported in \"Time\" magazine in 1971. Between mid-1970 and 1974, the number of research insititutions conducting research on TM grew from four to over 100.\n\nSeveral researchers have said that Maharishi's encouragement of research on TM resulted in a beneficial increase in the scientific understanding of not only TM but of meditation in general, resulting in the increased use of meditation to alleviate health problems and to improve mind and body. Neuroscientists Ronald Jevning and James O’Halloran wrote in 1984 that \"The proposal of the existence of a unique or fourth state of consciousness with a basis in physiology\" by the Maharishi in 1968 was \"a major contribution to the study of human behavior\" resulting in \"a myriad of scientific studies both basic and applied in an area heretofore reserved for ‘mysticism'.\" Research reviews of the effects of the Transcendental Meditation technique have yielded results ranging from inconclusive to clinically significant. \"Newsweek\" science writer Sharon Begley said that \"the Maharishi deserves credit for introducing the study of meditation to biology. Hospitals from Stanford to Duke have instituted meditation programs to help patients cope with chronic pain and other ailments.\"\n\nAccording to Bainbridge and Stark, TM had engaged in several mass media campaigns prior to 1973, and had received a great amount of publicity, but the main source of new TM students was word of mouth, or the \"advice of friends\", because \"TM was a relatively cheap, short-term service, requiring no deep commitment\". Author Jack Forem agrees, and writes: \"the main source of publicity for the movement has been satisfied practitioners spreading the news by word of mouth\".\n\nIn 1973, Maharishi International University (MIU) faculty member, Michael Peter Cain co-wrote a book with Harold Bloomfield and Dennis T. Jaffe called \"TM: Discovering Inner Energy and Overcoming Stress\". The TM movement's area coordinator, Jack Forem, published his book \"Transcendental Meditation, Maharishi Mahesh Yogi and the Science of Creative Intelligence\" in 1976. That year, TM teacher, Peter Russell, released his book \"An Introduction to Transcendental Meditation and the Teachings of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi\" as did MIU board of trustees member, Nat Goldhaber who wrote \"TM: An alphabetical guide to the transcendental meditation program\". The Maharishi made appearances on the \"Merv Griffin Show\" in 1975 and again in 1977. TM teacher, George Ellis published a book called \"Inside Folsom Prison: Transcendental Meditation and TM-Sidhi Program\" in 1983. Movement spokesman, Robert Roth, published his book, \"TM: Transcendental Meditation: A New Introduction to Maharishi's Easy, Effective and Scientifically Proven Technique\" in 1988. As of 1993 the organization was utilizing its own public relations office called the Age of Enlightenment News Service. In a scene in the 1999 film, \"Man on the Moon\", TM meditator Andy Kaufman was asked to leave a TM teacher training course because his performances were incompatible with the behavior expected of a TM teacher. The Maharishi gave his first interview in 25 years on the \"Larry King Show\" in May 2002. Additional books were published by Maharishi University of Management (MUM) faculty and researchers such as David Orme-Johnson's \"Transcendental Meditation in Criminal Rehabilitation and Crime Prevention\" in 2003 and Robert Scheider's \"Total Heart Health: How to Prevent and Reverse Heart Disease with the Maharishi Vedic Approach to Health\" in 2006. The WikiLeaks web site published the alleged notes of 35 meetings conducted by the Domain of Atlanta Directors with the 10 January 2007 meeting notes saying they were \"making a strategy to get rid of the negative sites on the Internet\".\n\nAccording to the \"New York Times\", since 2008 there has been an increased number of celebrity endorsements for Transcendental Meditation. Those who have appeared at promotional events to raise funds to teach TM to students, veterans, prisoners and others include comedian/actor Russell Brand, TV host/physician Mehmet Oz, and singer Moby. A benefit performance in New York City in 2009 included a reunion performance by musicians Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr, Donovan, Sheryl Crow, Eddie Vedder, Bettye LaVette, Ben Harper, Paul Horn, and Mike Love. Others appearances included comedian Jerry Seinfeld, actress Laura Dern, and radio talk show host Howard Stern. The book was published by psychiatrist Norman Rosenthal in 2011 and MUM faculty member Fred Travis published \"Your Brain is a River, Not a Rock\" in 2012. A jazz concert to benefit the David Lynch Foundation was held in New York City in 2013. The events included remarks by TV hosts Mehmet Oz, George Stephanopoulos and actress Liv Tyler with musical performances by Herbie Hancock, Corrine Bailey Rae and Wynton Marsalis.\n\nIn 1988, author J. Isamu Yamamoto wrote that \"TM was called the McDonald's of meditation because of its extravagantly successful packaging of Eastern Meditation for the American mass market\". According to the 1980 book, \"TM and Cult Mania\", scientists associated with TM have attempted to prove the Maharishi's concepts by uniting scientific data and mystical philosophy. The 2010 book, \"Teaching Mindfulness\", says that TM's eventual success as a new social movement was based on the \"translation in Western language and settings, popular recognition, adoption within scientific research in powerful institutions.\" The book goes on to say that TM's \"use of sophisticated marketing and public relations techniques, represents a model for success in the building of new social movements\". Sociologist Hank Johnston, who analyzed TM as a \"marketed social movement\" in a 1980 paper, says that TM has used sophisticated techniques, such as tailored promotional messages for different audiences, and pragmatically adapted them to different cultures and changing times. Johnston says that TM's \"calculated strategies\" have led to its \"rapid growth\". In particular, it has objectified the rank-and-file membership, marketed the movement as a product, and created a perception of grievances for which it offers a panacea. In her book, \"The Field\", author Lynne McTaggart notes that the \"organization has been ridiculed, largely because of the promotion of the Maharishi's own personal interests\", but suggests that \"the sheer weight of data...[on the Maharishi Effect]...is compelling\". According to an article in The Independent, despite early criticism, the TM technique has moved from margin to mainstream, due mostly to its \"burgeoning body of scientific research\". Its recent appeal seems due to the possibility of relaxation with no chemical assistance. Jerrold Greenberg in his book \"Comprehensive Stress Management\" writes that the Maharishi was a \"major exporter of meditation to the Western world\" who \"developed a large, worldwide, and highly effective organization to teach Transcendental Meditation\". Greenberg goes on to say that \"the simplicity of this technique, coupled with the effectiveness of its marketing by TM organizations quickly led to its popularity.\" According to Goldberg, research and meditation in general are likely to be the Maharishi's \"lasting legacy\".\n\nMaharishi wanted to maintain the purity of his teachings. He said that the \"purity of the system of meditation\" must be maintained \"at any cost because the effect lies in the purity of the teaching\". TM practitioners that are suspected of interacting with other gurus can be banned from meditations and lose other privileges. In the 1990s, Maharishi prohibited his students from interacting with Deepak Chopra. As a result, Lowe writes, the number of sufficiently orthodox practitioners was significantly reduced by 2007. In 1983, Robin Wadsworth Carlson began teaching his meditation program via a \"World Teacher Seminar.\" Many students at Maharishi International University (MIU) were suspended after describing the literature promoting the seminar. In response Carlson filed a lawsuit against MIU alleging interference in conducting his seminars.\n\nThe Maharishi believed that in order to maintain the continuity of Transcendental Meditation it had to be taught by trained teachers in dedicated centers. Maharishi recorded his lectures; systematized the teaching of the technique, insisted the technique not be mixed with other techniques and separated the technique from other points of view and practices that might confuse its understanding.\n\nGeorge Chryssides identifies the TM movement as one of the new religious movements \"which lacks overtly religious features as traditionally understood\" and whose focus is on human potential. He also describes the TM movement in terms of Roy Wallis's typological terms as a world affirming rather than world renouncing or world accommodating new religious movement.<ref name=\"Chryssides/Exploring\">(Roy Wallis, 1985, page 5)</ref> According to religious studies scholar, Tamar Gablinger, the \"complex structure\" of the TM organization falls somewhere between being a commercial entity and a religious and social movement. Gablinger says this allows sociologists to categorize it in a variety of ways. Both Gablinger and sociologist Hank Johnston describe the TM organization as a \"marketed social movement.\"\n\nAuthor Noretta Koertge asserts that the TM movement introduced to the West the \"scientistic version of Hinduism\"; the idea that \"the Vedas are simply another name for science\". The TM movement has been described by Neusner as being a neo-Hindu adaptation of classical Vedantic Hinduism, while author Gerald James Larson says it retains \"only shallow connections\" to Hinduism.\n\nCritics charge that the TM movement is a bastardized form of Hinduism which denies its religious roots and claims a scientific basis for the purpose of securing government funding for its programs. In their book, \"Millennium, Messiahs and Mayhem: Contemporary Apocalyptic Movements\", Robbins and Palmer refer to the Maharishi's teaching that the practice of Transcendental Meditation will bring Ram Rajya (the rule of God) on earth as a form of progressive millennialism from the Hindu tradition.\n\nAlong with other movements that developed as part of the hippie subculture in the 1960s, there has been debate on \"cult\"-like aspects of the Transcendental Meditation movement. Camille Paglia wrote that TM was the \"major Asian cult\" of the 1960s. The Israeli Center for Cult Victims also considers the movement to be a cult. Maharishi University says that it is not a religious institution but people who have left the movement refer to it as a cult.\n\nIn 1987, the Cult Awareness Network (CAN) held a press conference and demonstration in Washington, D.C., saying that the organization that teaches the Transcendental Meditation technique \"seeks to strip individuals of their ability to think and choose freely.\" Steven Hassan, an author on the topic of cults, and at one time a CAN deprogrammer, said at the press conference that members display cult-like behaviors, such as the use of certain language and particular ways of dressing. TM teacher and spokesperson, Dean Draznin, \"discounted CAN's claims\" saying that Transcendental Meditation \"doesn't involve beliefs or lifestyle\" or \"mind control\" and \"We don't force people to take courses\". Another spokesperson, Mark Haviland of the related College of Natural Law said that TM is \"not a philosophy, a life style or a religion.\"\n\nAuthor Shirley Harrison says that the method of recruitment is one sign that helps to identify cult, and that TM's only method is advertising. She also says that \"none of the other 'cultic qualities' defined by cultwatchers can be fairly attributed to TM.\" Harrison writes that the Maharishi's teaching does not require conversion and that Transcendental Meditation does not have a religious creed.\n\nIn the book \"Cults and New Religions\", Cowan and Bromley write that TM is presented to the public as a meditation practice that has been validated by science but is not a religious practice nor is it affiliated with any religious tradition. They say that \"although there are some dedicated followers of TM who devote most or all of their time to furthering the practice of Transcendental Meditation in late modern society, the vast majority of those who practice do so on their own, often as part of what has been loosely described as the New Age Movement. \" They say that most scholars view Transcendental Meditation as having elements of both therapy and religion, but that on the other hand, \"Transcendental Meditation has no designated scripture, no set of doctrinal requirements, no ongoing worship activity, and no discernible community of believers.\" They also say that Maharishi didn't claim to have special divine revelation or supernatural personal qualities.\n\nMarc Galanter, writes in his book \"\" that TM \"evolved into something of a charismatic movement, with a belief system that transcended the domain of its practice\". He notes how a variety of unreasonable beliefs came to be seen as literally true by its \"more committed members\". He cites an \"unlikely set of beliefs\" that includes the ability to levitate and reduce traffic accidents and conflicts in the Middle East through the practice of meditation.\n\nIn his book \"Soul snatchers: the mechanics of cults\", Jean-Marie Abgrall describes how Altered States Of Consciousness (ASCs) are used in many cults to make the initiate more susceptible to the group will and world view. He cites research by Barmark and Gautnitz which showed the similarities between the states obtained by Transcendental Meditation and ASCs. In this way, not only does the subject become more reliant on the ASC, but it allows for a weakening of criticism of the cult and increase in faith therein. Abgrall goes on to note that the use of mantras is one of the most widespread techniques in cults, noting in TM this mantra is produced mentally. He says that a guru is usually central to a cult and that its success will rely on how effective that guru is. Among the common characteristics of a guru he notes paraphrenia, a mental illness that completely cuts the individual from reality. In regard to this he notes for example, that the Maharishi recommended the TM-Sidhi program including 'yogic flying' as a way to reduce crime.\n\nIn his book \"The Elementary Forms of The New Religious Life\", Roy Wallis writes in the chapter called \"Three Types of New Religious Movements\" that TM is a \"world affirming new religion\" which does not reject the world and its organisation\" [sic]. Wallis goes on to say that \"no rigorous discipline is normally involved\" and \"no extensive doctrinal commitment is entailed, at least not at the outset\". Likewise, he writes, \"No one is required to declare a belief in TM, in the Maharishi or even in the possible effects of the technique\". In a later chapter called \"The Precariousness of the Market\", he writes that TM meditators are \"expected to employ the movement's rhetoric and conceptual vocabulary\" and shift from an empirical product [the Transcendental Meditation technique] to a \"system of belief and practice\" [such as the TM Sidhi program] and in this way \"the movement shifts from cult towards sect\". Sociologist Alan E. Aldridge writes that Transcendental Meditation fits Roy Wallis' definition of a \"world-affirming religion\". According to Aldridge, TM has an ethos of \"individual self-realization\" and \"an inner core of committed members\" who practice more advanced techniques (the TM-Sidhi program) that may not even be known to the \"ordinary consumer of TM\".\n\nReporter Michael D'Antonio wrote in his book, \"Heaven on Earth – Dispatches from America's Spiritual Frontier\" that, as practiced at Maharishi International University, Transcendental Meditation is \"a cult, not a culture\". D'Antonio wrote that Transcendental Meditation was like the worst of religion: rigid, unreasonable, repressive, and authoritarian, characterized by overt manipulation, a disregard for serious scholarship, and an unwillingness to question authority. For the first time in his travels he found people he believed to be truly deluded, and a physics department teaching theories that were dead wrong. D'Antonio charges that they have taken Transcendental Meditiation and transformed it \"into a grandiose narcissistic dream, a form of intellectual bondage, that they call enlightenment\".\n\nClarke and Linzey argue that for the ordinary membership of TM their lives and daily concerns are little — if at all — affected by its cult nature. Instead, as is the case for Scientology, it is only the core membership who must give total dedication to the movement. A former TM teacher, who operates an online site critical of TM, says that 90 percent of participants take an introductory course and \"leave with only a nice memory of incense, flowers, and smiling gurus\" while \"the 10 percent who become more involved\". He says those participants encounter \"environments where adherents often weren't allowed to read the news or talk to family members\". Another former TM Movement member, says there were \"times when devotees had their mail screened and were monitored by a Vigilance Committee\". Another follower described these TM critics as a \"microscopic group of troubled people\" whose \"mission in life is to be unhappy\".\n\nA reporter for \"The Sunday Times\" wrote in 2010 that he did not think the movement was a cult due to the lack of a cult leader and its well-meaning participants. While religious scholar Tamar Gablinger notes that some of the reports from \"apostates and adversaries\" who have written about their involvement with the TM movement are \"rather biased.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "147842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147842", "title": "Tridentine Mass", "text": "Tridentine Mass\n\nThe Tridentine Mass, also known as the Usus Antiquior and Extraordinary Form of the Roman Rite, is the Roman Rite Mass which appears in typical editions of the Roman Missal published from 1570 to 1962. The most widely used Mass liturgy in the world until the introduction of the Mass of Paul VI in 1969, it is celebrated in ecclesiastical Latin. The 1962 edition is the most recent authorized text, also known as the Missal of Saint John XXIII after the now-canonized Pope who promulgated it.\n\n\"Tridentine\" is derived from the Latin \"Tridentinus\", \"related to the city of Tridentum\" (modern-day Trent, Italy), where the Council of Trent was held. In response to a decision of that council, Pope Pius V promulgated the 1570 Roman Missal, making it mandatory throughout the Latin Church, except in places and religious orders with missals from before 1370. Despite being often described as \"the (Traditional) Latin Mass\", the Mass of Paul VI (the \"Novus Ordo Missae\") that replaced it as the Ordinary Form of the Roman Rite has its official text in Latin and is sometimes celebrated in that language.\n\nIn 2007, Pope Benedict XVI issued the \"motu proprio\" \"Summorum Pontificum\", accompanied by a letter to the world's bishops, authorizing use of the 1962 Tridentine Mass by all Latin Rite Catholic priests in Masses celebrated without the people. These Masses \"may — observing all the norms of law — also be attended by faithful who, of their own free will, ask to be admitted\". Permission for competent priests to use the Tridentine Mass as parish liturgies may be given by the pastor or rector.\n\nBenedict stated that the 1962 edition of the Roman Missal is to be considered an \"extraordinary form\" (\"forma extraordinaria\") of the Roman Rite, of which the 1970 Mass of Paul VI is the ordinary, normal or standard form. Since that is the only authorized extraordinary form, some refer to the 1962 Tridentine Mass as \"the extraordinary form\" of the Mass. The 1962 Tridentine Mass is sometimes referred to as the \"\"usus antiquior\" (older use) or \"forma antiquior\"\" (older form), to differentiate it from the Mass of Paul VI, again in the sense of being the only one of the older forms for which authorization has been granted.\n\nIn most countries, the language used for celebrating the Tridentine Mass was and is Latin. However, in Dalmatia and parts of Istria in Croatia, the liturgy was celebrated in Church Slavonic, and authorisation for use of this language was extended to some other Slavic regions between 1886 and 1935.\n\nAfter the publication of the 1962 edition of the Roman Missal, the 1964 Instruction on implementing the Constitution on Sacred Liturgy of the Second Vatican Council laid down that \"normally the epistle and gospel from the Mass of the day shall be read in the vernacular\". Episcopal conferences were to decide, with the consent of the Holy See, what other parts, if any, of the Mass were to be celebrated in the vernacular.\n\nOutside the Roman Catholic Church, the vernacular language was introduced into the celebration of the Tridentine Mass by some Old Catholics and Anglo-Catholics with the introduction of the English Missal.\n\nSome Western Rite Orthodox Christians, particularly in the Antiochian Orthodox Archdiocese of North America, use the Tridentine Mass in the vernacular with minor alterations under the title of the \"Divine Liturgy of St. Gregory\".\n\nMost Old Catholics use the Tridentine Mass, either in the vernacular or in Latin.\n\nThe Catholic Church uses the term \"extraordinary form of the Roman Rite Mass\" among other terms. The most widespread term for this form of the rite, other than \"Tridentine Mass\", is \"Latin Mass\". Likewise, the ordinary form of the Roman Rite Mass was promulgated in Latin and, except at Masses scheduled by the ecclesiastical authorities to take place in the language of the people, can everywhere be celebrated in that language.\n\nOccasionally the term \"Gregorian Rite\" is used when talking about the Tridentine Mass, as is, more frequently, \"Tridentine Rite\". Pope Benedict XVI declared it inappropriate to speak of the versions of the Roman Missal of before and after 1970 as if they were two rites. Rather, he said, it is a matter of a twofold use of one and the same rite. Within the Eastern Byzantine Churches the mass is known as the Divine Liturgy of Saint Gregory the Great.\n\nTraditionalist Catholics, whose best-known characteristic is an attachment to the Tridentine Mass, frequently refer to it as the \"Traditional Mass\" or the \"Traditional Latin Mass\". They describe as a \"codifying\" of the form of the Mass the preparation of Pius V's edition of the Roman Missal, of which he said that the experts to whom he had entrusted the work collated the existing text with ancient manuscripts and writings, restored it to \"the original form and rite of the holy Fathers\" and further emended it. To distinguish this form of Mass from the Mass of Paul VI, traditionalist Catholics sometimes call it the \"Mass of the Ages\", and say that it comes down to us \"from the Church of the Apostles, and ultimately, indeed, from Him Who is its principal Priest and its spotless Victim\".\n\nAt the time of the Council of Trent, the traditions preserved in printed and manuscript missals varied considerably, and standardization was sought both within individual dioceses and throughout the Latin West. Standardization was required also in order to prevent the introduction into the liturgy of Protestant ideas in the wake of the Protestant Reformation.\n\nPope St. Pius V accordingly imposed uniformity by law in 1570 with the papal bull \"Quo primum\", ordering use of the Roman Missal as revised by him. He allowed only those rites that were at least 200 years old to survive the promulgation of his 1570 Missal. Several of the rites that remained in existence were progressively abandoned, though the Ambrosian rite survives in Milan, Italy and neighbouring areas, stretching even into Switzerland, and the Mozarabic rite remains in use to a limited extent in Toledo and Madrid, Spain. The Carmelite, Carthusian and Dominican religious orders kept their rites, but in the second half of the 20th century two of these three chose to adopt the Roman Rite. The rite of Braga, in northern Portugal, seems to have been practically abandoned: since 18 November 1971 that archdiocese authorizes its use only on an optional basis.\n\nBeginning in the late 17th century, France and neighbouring areas, such as Münster, Cologne and Trier in Germany, saw a flurry of independent missals published by bishops influenced by Jansenism and Gallicanism. This ended when Abbot Guéranger and others initiated in the 19th century a campaign to return to the Roman Missal.\n\nPius V's revision of the liturgy had as one of its declared aims the restoration of the Roman Missal \"to the original form and rite of the holy Fathers\". Due to the relatively limited resources available to his scholars, this aim was in fact not realised.\n\nThree different printings of Pius V's Roman Missal, with minor variations, appeared in 1570, a folio and a quarto edition in Rome and a folio edition in Venice. A reproduction of what is considered to be the earliest, referred to therefore as the \"editio princeps\", was produced in 1998. In the course of the printing of the \"editio princeps\", some corrections were made by pasting revised texts over parts of the already printed pages. There were several printings again in the following year 1571, with various corrections of the text.\n\nIn the Apostolic Constitution (papal bull) \"Quo primum\", with which he prescribed use of his 1570 edition of the Roman Missal, Pius V decreed: \"We order and enjoin that nothing must be added to Our recently published Missal, nothing omitted from it, nor anything whatsoever be changed within it.\" This of course did not exclude changes by a Pope, and Pope Pius V himself added to the Missal the feast of Our Lady of Victory, to celebrate the victory of Lepanto of 7 October 1571. His immediate successor, Pope Gregory XIII, changed the name of this feast to \"The Most Holy Rosary of the Blessed Virgin Mary\" and Pope John XXIII changed it to \"Our Lady of the Rosary\".\n\nPius V's work in severely reducing the number of feasts in the Roman Calendar (see this comparison) was very soon further undone by his successors. Feasts that he had abolished, such as those of the Presentation of Mary, Saint Anne and Saint Anthony of Padua, were restored even before Clement VIII's 1604 typical edition of the Missal was issued.\n\nIn the course of the following centuries new feasts were repeatedly added and the ranks of certain feasts were raised or lowered. A comparison between Pope Pius V's Tridentine Calendar and the General Roman Calendar of 1954 shows the changes made from 1570 to 1954. Pope Pius XII made a general revision in 1955, and Pope John XXIII made further general revisions in 1960 simplifying the terminology concerning the ranking of liturgical celebrations.\n\nWhile keeping on 8 December what he called the feast of \"the Conception of Blessed Mary\" (omitting the word \"Immaculate\"), Pius V suppressed the existing special Mass for the feast, directing that the Mass for the Nativity of Mary (with the word \"Nativity\" replaced by \"Conception\") be used instead. Part of that earlier Mass was revived in the Mass that Pope Pius IX ordered to be used on the feast.\n\nIn addition to such occasional changes, the Roman Missal was subjected to general revisions whenever a new \"typical edition\" (an official edition whose text was to be reproduced in printings by all publishers) was issued.\n\nAfter Pius V's original Tridentine Roman Missal, the first new typical edition was promulgated in 1604 by Pope Clement VIII, who in 1592 had issued a revised edition of the Vulgate. The Bible texts in the Missal of Pope Pius V did not correspond exactly to the new Vulgate, and so Clement edited and revised Pope Pius V's Missal, making alterations both in the scriptural texts and in other matters. He abolished some prayers that the 1570 Missal obliged the priest to say on entering the church; shortened the two prayers to be said after the Confiteor; directed that the words \"\" (\"Do this in memory of me\") should not be said while displaying the chalice to the people after the consecration, but before doing so; inserted directions at several points of the Canon that the priest was to pronounce the words inaudibly; suppressed the rule that, at High Mass, the priest, even if not a bishop, was to give the final blessing with three signs of the cross; and rewrote the rubrics, introducing, for instance, the ringing of a small bell.\n\nThe next typical edition was issued in 1634, when Pope Urban VIII made another general revision of the Roman Missal.\n\nThere was no further typical edition until that of Pope Leo XIII in 1884. It introduced only minor changes, not profound enough to merit having the papal bull of its promulgation included in the Missal, as the bulls of 1604 and 1634 were.\n\nIn 1911, with the bull \"Divino Afflatu\", Pope Pius X made significant changes in the rubrics. He died in 1914, so it fell to his successor Pope Benedict XV to issue a new typical edition incorporating his changes. This 1920 edition included a new section headed: \"Additions and Changes in the Rubrics of the Missal in accordance with the Bull \"Divino afflatu\" and the Subsequent Decrees of the Sacred Congregation of Rites\". This additional section was almost as long as the previous section on the \"General Rubrics of the Missal\", which continued to be printed unchanged.\n\nPope Pius XII radically revised the Palm Sunday and Easter Triduum liturgy, suppressed many vigils and octaves and made other alterations in the calendar (see General Roman Calendar of Pope Pius XII), reforms that were completed in Pope John XXIII's 1960 Code of Rubrics, which were incorporated in the final 1962 typical edition of the Tridentine Missal, replacing both Pius X's \"Additions and Changes in the Rubrics of the Missal\" and the earlier \"General Rubrics of the Missal\".\n\nChanges made to the liturgy in 1965 and 1967 in the wake of decisions of the Second Vatican Council were not incorporated in the Roman Missal, but were reflected in the provisional vernacular translations produced when the language of the people began to be used in addition to Latin. This explains the references sometimes seen to \"the 1965 Missal\".\n\nThe General Roman Calendar was revised partially in 1955 and 1960 and completely in 1969 in Pope Paul VI's \"motu proprio\" \"Mysterii Paschalis\", again reducing the number of feasts.\n\nThe Roman Missal issued by Pope John XXIII in 1962 differed from earlier editions in a number of ways.\n\nPope Benedict XVI authorized, under certain conditions, continued use of this 1962 edition of the Roman Missal as an extraordinary form of the Roman Rite, alongside the later form, introduced in 1970, which is now the normal or ordinary form. Pre-1962 forms of the Roman Rite, which some individuals and groups employ, are not authorized for liturgical use.\n\nThe Mass is divided into two parts, the Mass of the Catechumens and the Mass of the Faithful. Catechumens, those being instructed in the faith, were once dismissed after the first half, not having yet professed the faith. Profession of faith was considered essential for participation in the Eucharistic sacrifice.\n\nThis rule of the \"Didache\" is still in effect. It is only one of the three conditions (baptism, right faith and right living) for admission to receiving Holy Communion that the Catholic Church has always applied and that were already mentioned in the early 2nd century by Saint Justin Martyr: \"And this food is called among us the Eucharist, of which no one is allowed to partake but the man who believes that the things which we teach are true, and who has been washed with the washing that is for the remission of sins, and unto regeneration, and who is so living as Christ has enjoined\" (\"First Apology\", Chapter LXVI).\n\n\nFollowing the Asperges, Mass begins.\n\nThe first part is the Mass of the Catechumens.\n\nThe sequence of Prayers at the foot of the altar is:\n\n\n\nThe second part is the Mass of the Faithful.\n\n\n\nUntil 1960, the Tridentine form of the Roman Missal laid down that a candle should be placed at the Epistle side of the altar and that it should be lit at the showing of the consecrated sacrament to the people. In practice, except in monasteries and on special occasions, this had fallen out of use long before Pope John XXIII replaced the section on the general rubrics of the Roman Missal with his Code of Rubrics, which no longer mentioned this custom. On this, see Elevation candle.\n\n\n\n\nThe Tridentine Missal includes prayers for the priest to say before and after Mass.\n\nIn later editions of the Roman Missal, including that of 1962, the introductory heading of these prayers indicates that they are to be recited \"pro opportunitate\" (as circumstances allow), which in practice means that they are merely optional and may be omitted. The original Tridentine Missal presents most of the prayers as obligatory, indicating as optional only a very long prayer attributed to Saint Ambrose (which later editions divide into seven sections, each to be recited on only one day of the week) and two other prayers attributed to Saint Ambrose and Saint Thomas Aquinas respectively.\n\nIn addition to these three prayers, the original Tridentine Missal proposes for the priest to recite before he celebrates Mass the whole of Psalms 83–85, 115, 129 (the numbering is that of the Septuagint and Vulgate), and a series of collect-style prayers. Later editions add, after the three that in the original Missal are only optional, prayers to the Blessed Virgin, Saint Joseph, all the angels and saints, and the saint whose Mass is to be celebrated, but, as has been said, treats as optional all the prayers before Mass, even those originally given as obligatory.\n\nThe original Tridentine Missal proposes for recitation by the priest after Mass three prayers, including the \"Adoro te devote\". Later editions place before these three the Canticle of the Three Youths (Dan) with three collects, and follow them with the \"Anima Christi\" and seven more prayers, treating as optional even the three prescribed in the original Tridentine Missal.\n\nFrom 1884 to 1965, the Holy See prescribed the recitation after Low Mass of certain prayers, originally for the solution of the Roman Question and, after this problem was solved by the Lateran Treaty, \"to permit tranquillity and freedom to profess the faith to be restored to the afflicted people of Russia\".\n\nThese prayers are known as the Leonine Prayers because it was Pope Leo XIII who on 6 January 1884 ordered their recitation throughout the world. In what had been the Papal States, they were already in use since 1859.\n\nThe prayers comprised three Ave Marias, one Salve Regina followed by a versicle and response, and a collect prayer that, from 1886 on, asked for the conversion of sinners and \"the freedom and exaltation of Holy Mother the Church\", and, again from 1886 on, a prayer to Saint Michael. In 1904, Pope Pius X added a thrice-repeated \"Most Sacred Heart of Jesus, have mercy on us.\"\n\nIn 1964, with effect from 7 March 1965, the Holy See ended the obligation to recite the Leonine Prayers after Low Mass. However, the Leonine Prayers are sometimes still recited after present-day celebrations of Tridentine Mass, although they are not included even in the 1962 edition of the Tridentine Missal.\n\nThe participation of the congregation at the Tridentine Mass is interior, involving eye and heart, and exterior by mouth.\n\nExcept in the Dialogue Mass form, which arose about 1910 and led to a more active exterior participation of the congregation, the people present at the Tridentine Mass do not recite out loud the prayers of the Mass. Only the server or servers join with the priest in reciting the prayers at the foot of the altar (which include the Confiteor) and in speaking the other responses. Most of the prayers that the priest says are spoken inaudibly, including almost all the Mass of the Faithful: the offertory prayers, the Canon of the Mass (except for the preface and the final doxology), and (apart from the Agnus Dei) those between the Lord's Prayer and the postcommunion.\n\nAt a Solemn Mass or Missa Cantata, a choir sings the servers' responses, except for the Prayers at the Foot of the Altar. The choir sings the Introit, the Kyrie, the Gloria, the Gradual, the Tract or Alleluia, the Credo, the Offertory and Communion antiphons, the Sanctus, and the Agnus Dei. Of these, only the five that form part of the Ordinary of the Mass are usually sung at a Missa Cantata. In addition to the Gregorian Chant music for these, polyphonic compositions exist, some quite elaborate. The priest largely says quietly the words of the chants and then recites other prayers while the choir continues the chant.\n\nThere are various forms of celebration of the Tridentine Mass:\n\nIn its article \"The Liturgy of the Mass\", the 1917 \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" describes how, when concelebration ceased to be practised in Western Europe, Low Mass became distinguished from High Mass:\n\nOn the origin of the \"Missa Cantata\", the same source gives the following information:\n\nPius XII began in earnest the work of revising the Roman Missal with a thorough revision of the rites of Holy Week, which, after an experimental period beginning in 1951, was made obligatory in 1955. The Mass that used to be said on Holy Thursday morning was moved to the evening, necessitating a change in the rule that previously had required fasting from midnight. The Good Friday service was moved to the afternoon, Holy Communion was no longer reserved for the priest alone (as before, hosts consecrated at the Holy Thursday Mass were used) and the priest no longer received part of the host in unconsecrated wine. The Easter Vigil service that used to be held in morning of Holy Saturday was moved to the night that leads to Easter Sunday and many changes were made to the content.\n\nIn 1960, Pope John XXIII (1958–1963) ordered the suppression of the word \"perfidis\" (\"unbelieving\" i.e. not believing in Jesus), applied to the Jews, in the rites for Good Friday. He revised the rubrics to the Order of Mass and the Breviary. Two years later, in 1962, he made some more minor modifications on the occasion of publishing a new typical edition of the Roman Missal. This is the edition authorized for use by virtue of the \"Quattuor abhinc annos\" indult (see below, under \"Present status of the Tridentine Mass\"). Among the other changes he made and that were included in the 1962 Missal were: adding St. Joseph's name to the Roman Canon; eliminating the second Confiteor before Communion; suppressing 10 feasts, such as St. Peter's Chair in Rome (or, more accurately, combining both feasts of St Peter's Chair into one, as they originally had been); incorporating the abolition of 4 festal octaves and 9 vigils of feasts and other changes made by Pope Pius XII; and modifying rubrics especially for Solemn High Masses. Among the names that disappeared from the Roman Missal was that of St Philomena: her liturgical celebration had never been admitted to the General Roman Calendar, but from 1920 it had been included (with an indication that the Mass was to be taken entirely from the common) in the section headed \"Masses for some places\", i.e. only those places for which it had been specially authorized; but her name had already in 1961 been ordered to be removed from all liturgical calendars.\n\nOn 4 December 1963, the Second Vatican Council decreed in Chapter II of its Constitution on the Sacred Liturgy \"Sacrosanctum Concilium\":\n\"[T]he rite of the Mass is to be revised ... the rites are to be simplified, due care being taken to preserve their substance. Parts which with the passage of time came to be duplicated, or were added with little advantage, are to be omitted. Other parts which suffered loss through accidents of history are to be restored to the vigor they had in the days of the holy Fathers, as may seem useful or necessary. The treasures of the Bible are to be opened up more lavishly so that a richer fare may be provided for the faithful at the table of God’s word ... A suitable place may be allotted to the vernacular in Masses which are celebrated with the people ... communion under both kinds may be granted when the bishops think fit...as, for instance, to the newly ordained in the Mass of their sacred ordination, to the newly professed in the Mass of their religious profession, and to the newly baptized in the Mass which follows their baptism...\"\n\nThe instruction \"Inter Oecumenici\" of 26 September 1964 initiated the application to the Mass of the decisions that the Council had taken less than a year before. Permission was given for use, only in Mass celebrated with the people, of the vernacular language, especially in the Biblical readings and the reintroduced Prayers of the Faithful, but, \"until the whole of the Ordinary of the Mass has been revised,\" in the chants (Kyrie, Gloria, Creed, Sanctus, Agnus Dei, and the entrance, offertory and communion antiphons) and in the parts that involved dialogue with the people, and in the Our Father, which the people could now recite entirely together with the priest. Most Episcopal Conferences quickly approved interim vernacular translations, generally different from country to country, and, after having them confirmed by the Holy See, published them in 1965. Other changes included the omission of Psalm 43 (42) at the start of Mass and the Last Gospel at the end, both of which Pope Pius V had first inserted into the Missal (having previously been private prayers said by the priest in the sacristy), and the Leonine Prayers of Pope Leo XIII. The Canon of the Mass, which continued to be recited silently, was kept in Latin.\n\nThree years later, the instruction \"Tres abhinc annos\" of 4 May 1967 gave permission for use of the vernacular even in the Canon of the Mass, and allowed it to be said audibly and even, in part, to be chanted; the vernacular could be used even at Mass celebrated without the people being present. Use of the maniple was made optional, and at three ceremonies at which the cope was previously the obligatory vestment the chasuble could be used instead.\n\nPope Paul VI continued implementation of the Council's directives, ordering with Apostolic Constitution \"Missale Romanum\" of Holy Thursday, 3 April 1969, publication of a new official edition of the Roman Missal, which appeared (in Latin) in 1970.\n\nSome Traditionalist Catholics reject to a greater or lesser extent the changes made since 1950 (see Traditionalist Catholic). None advocate returning to the original (1570) form of the liturgy, though some may perhaps wish a re-establishment of its form before Pius X's revision of the rubrics in 1911. Some do refuse to accept the 1955 changes in the liturgy of Palm Sunday and the Easter Triduum and in the liturgical calendar (see General Roman Calendar of Pope Pius XII), and instead use the General Roman Calendar as in 1954. Others accept the 1955 changes by Pius XII, but not those of Pope John XXIII. Others again, in accordance with the authorization granted by Pope Benedict XVI in \"Summorum Pontificum\", use the Missal and calendar as it was in 1962.\n\nSome of them argue that, unlike earlier reforms, the revision of 1969-1970 which replaced the Tridentine Mass with the Mass of Pope Paul VI represented a major break with the past. They consider that the content of the revised liturgy is, in Catholic terms, seriously deficient and defective; some hold that it is displeasing to God, and that no Catholic should attend it.\n\nWhen a preliminary text of two of the sections of the revised Missal was published in 1969, Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre gathered a group of twelve theologians, who, under his direction, wrote a study of the text. They stated that it \"represents, both as a whole and in its details, a striking departure from the Catholic theology of the Mass as it was formulated in Session 22 of the Council of Trent\". Cardinal Alfredo Ottaviani, a former Prefect of the Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, supported this study with a letter of 25 September 1969 to Pope Paul VI. Cardinal Antonio Bacci signed the same letter. The critical study became known as \"the Ottaviani Intervention\". Cardinal Ottaviani subsequently stated in writing that he had not intended his letter to be made public, and that Pope Paul VI's doctrinal exposition, on 19 November and 26 November 1969, of the revised liturgy in its definitive form meant that \"no one can be genuinely scandalised any more\". Jean Madiran, a critic of Vatican II and founder-editor of the French journal \"Itinéraires\", claimed that this letter was fraudulently presented to the elderly and already blind cardinal for his signature by his secretary, Monsignor (and future Cardinal) Gilberto Agustoni, and that Agustoni resigned shortly afterwards. This allegation remains unproven, and Madiran himself was not an eyewitness of the alleged deception.\n\nIn October 1967, a meeting of the Synod of Bishops had already given its opinion on a still earlier draft. Of the 187 members, 78 approved it as it stood, 62 approved it but suggested various modifications, 4 abstained, and 47 voted against.\n\nFrom the 1960s onwards, Western countries have experienced a drop in Mass attendance (in the United States, from 75% of Catholics attending in 1958 to 25% attending by 2002). These same countries saw a decline in seminary enrollments and in the number of priests (in the United States, from 1,575 ordinations in 1954 to 450 in 2002), and a general erosion of belief in the doctrines of the Catholic faith. Opponents of the revision of the Mass liturgy argue, citing opinion poll evidence in their support, that the revision contributed to this decline. Others, pointing, among other considerations, to the fact that, globally, there are more priests and seminarians now than in previous years (in 1970, there were 72,991 major seminarians worldwide, in 2002, there were 113,199, an increase of 55%, at a time, however, when there was an increase of global population of 64%), suggest that the apparent decline of Catholic practice in the West is due to the general influence of secularism and liberalism on Western societies rather than to developments within the Church.\n\nFollowing the introduction of the Mass of Paul VI in 1969-1970, the Holy See granted a significant number of permissions for the use of the former liturgy. For example, elderly priests were not required to switch to celebrating the new form. In England and Wales, occasional celebrations of the Tridentine Mass were allowed in virtue of what became known as the \"Agatha Christie indult\". However, there was no general worldwide legal framework allowing for the celebration of the rite. Following the rise of the Traditionalist Catholic movement in the 1970s, Pope Paul VI reportedly declined to liberalise its use further on the grounds that it had become a politically charged symbol associated with opposition to his policies.\n\nIn 1984, the Holy See sent a letter known as \"Quattuor abhinc annos\" to the presidents of the world's Episcopal Conferences. This document empowered diocesan bishops to authorise, on certain conditions, celebrations of the Tridentine Mass for priests and laypeople who requested them. In 1988, following the excommunication of Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre and four bishops that he had consecrated, the Pope issued a further document, a \"motu proprio\" known as \"Ecclesia Dei\", which stated that \"respect must everywhere be shown for the feelings of all those who are attached to the Latin liturgical tradition\". The Pope urged bishops to give \"a wide and generous application\" to the provisions of \"Quattuor abhinc annos\", and established the Pontifical Commission \"Ecclesia Dei\" to oversee relations between Rome and Traditionalist Catholics.\n\nThe Holy See itself granted authorisation to use the Tridentine Mass to a significant number of priests and priestly societies, such as the Priestly Fraternity of St. Peter, the Institute of Christ the King Sovereign Priest, and the Personal Apostolic Administration of Saint John Mary Vianney. Some diocesan bishops, however, declined to authorise celebrations within their dioceses, or did so only to a limited extent. In some cases, the difficulty was that those seeking the permission were hostile to the church authorities. Other refusals of permission were alleged to have stemmed from certain bishops' disapproval in principle of celebrations of the Tridentine liturgy.\n\nAs a cardinal, Joseph Ratzinger was regarded as having a particular interest in the liturgy, and as being favourable towards the older rite of Mass. He famously criticized the erratic way in which, contrary to official policy, many priests celebrated the revised rite.\n\nIn September 2006, the Pontifical Commission \"Ecclesia Dei\" established the Institute of the Good Shepherd, made up of former members of the Society of St. Pius X, in Bordeaux, France, with permission to use the Tridentine liturgy. This step was met with some discontent from French clergy, and thirty priests wrote an open letter to the Pope. Consistently with its previous policy, the Society of St Pius X rejected the move.\n\nFollowing repeated rumours that the use of the Tridentine Mass would be liberalised, the Pope issued a \"motu proprio\" called \"Summorum Pontificum\" on 7 July 2007, together with an accompanying letter to the world's Bishops. The Pope declared that \"the Roman Missal promulgated by Paul VI is the ordinary expression of the \"lex orandi\" (law of prayer) of the Catholic Church of the Latin rite. Nevertheless, the Roman Missal promulgated by St. Pius V and reissued by St. John XXIII is to be considered as an extraordinary expression of that same 'Lex orandi'\". He further stated that \"the 1962 Missal ... was never juridically abrogated\". He replaced with new rules those of \"Quattuor Abhinc Annos\" on use of the older form: essentially, authorization for using the 1962 form for parish Masses and those celebrated on public occasions such as a wedding is devolved from the local bishop to the priest in charge of a church, and any priest of the Latin Rite may use the 1962 Roman Missal in \"Masses celebrated without the people\", a term that does not exclude attendance by other worshippers, lay or clergy. While requests by groups of Catholics wishing to use the Tridentine liturgy in parish Masses are to be dealt with by the parish priest (or the rector of the church) rather than, as before, by the local bishop, the Pope and Cardinal Darío Castrillón have stated that the bishops' authority is not thereby undermined.\n\nThe regulations set out in \"Summorum Pontificum\" provide that:\n\nWith letter 13/2007 of 20 January 2010 the Pontifical Council Ecclesia Dei responded positively to a question whether a parish priest (pastor) or another priest may on his own initiative publicly celebrate the extraordinary form, along with the customary regular use of the new form, \"so that the faithful, both young and old, can familiarize themselves with the old rites and benefit from their perceptible beauty and transcendence\". Although the Council accompanied this response with the observation that a stable group of the faithful attached to the older form has a right to assist at Mass in the extraordinary form, a website that published the response interpreted it as not requiring the existence of such a stable group.\n\nThe publication of \"Summorum Pontificum\" has led to an increase in the number of regularly scheduled public Tridentine Masses. On 14 June 2008 Cardinal Darío Castrillón Hoyos told a London press conference that Pope Benedict wants every parish to offer both the old and the new forms for Sunday Mass.\n\nThe cardinal said that the Vatican was preparing to instruct seminaries to teach all students the Tridentine form of the Roman Rite. The complexity of the rubrics makes it difficult for priests accustomed to the simpler modern form to celebrate the Tridentine form properly, and it is unclear how many have the required knowledge.\n\nSome Traditionalist Catholic priests and organisations, holding that no official permission is required to use any form of the Tridentine Mass, celebrate it without regularizing their situation, and sometimes using editions of the Roman Missal earlier than the 1962 edition approved in \"Summorum Pontificum\".\n\nIn order to provide for priests who celebrate the Tridentine Mass, publishers have issued facsimiles or reprintings of old missals. There were two new printings of the 1962 Tridentine Missal in 2004: one, with the imprimatur of Bishop Fabian Bruskewitz of Lincoln, Nebraska, by Baronius Press in association with the Priestly Fraternity of St. Peter; the other by the Society of St. Pius X's publishing house, Angelus Press. There was a new printing of a facsimile 1962 Tridentine Altar Missal in 2008 by PCP books. Some other missals reproduced date from before 1955 and so do not have the revised Holy Week rites promulgated by Pope Pius XII. They are used by traditionalists who reject Pius XII's liturgical changes. As well as such altar missals for use by the priest, old hand missals for those attending Mass have been reproduced, including a St Bonaventure Press facsimile of a pre-1955 edition of the St Andrew's Missal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20130863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20130863", "title": "Universal Eclectic Wicca", "text": "Universal Eclectic Wicca\n\nUniversal Eclectic Wicca (UEW) is one of a number of distinctly American Wiccan traditions which developed following the introduction of Gardnerian and Alexandrian Wicca to the United States in the early 1960s. Its corporate body is the Church of Universal Eclectic Wicca (CUEW) which is incorporated and based in Great Falls, Virginia.\n\nIt is particularly noted for its early Internet teaching coven – the Coven of the Far Flung Net (CFFN), and for its inclusive approach to solitary as well as coven based practitioners.\n\nWhat was to become UEW began, in 1969, as the core coven associated with the Silver Chalice Land Trust; an intentional community based in Westchester, New York.\n\nSilver Chalice had a diverse membership drawing from both Dianic and British Traditional Wiccan backgrounds. It was partly as a response to this diversity, as well as a perceived need for reform in Wicca, that their High Priestess, Jayne Tomas, began to create a body of liturgy for Silver Chalice Wicca as a distinct tradition.\n\nA defining text is the \"Ordains of Silver Chalice\", which may be seen as an attempt to refer to, and move away from, the \"Old Laws\" of Gardnerian Wicca. Together with the \"Fifteen Creeds of Silver Chalice Wicca\" (1969) they emphasized modernism; democratic principles; historical, intellectual and personal integrity; race and gender equality; self-determination; and engagement with society.\n\nBy 1986 the land held by the Silver Chalice Land Trust was sold, and all the covens that originated with Silver Chalice were referred to as Universal Eclectic Wicca.\n\n'Universal' because \"Wicca is universal because it can be used by all, and anything can be used in Wicca\"; and 'Eclectic' because \"UEW is based not on one or two sources, but an infinite number of sources\".\n\nIn 1997 UEW chartered the Coven of the Far Flung Net (CFFN), which began operating in January of the following year; and which it maintains was the first on-line teaching coven. UEW has two other on-line teaching groups, the Coven of Non-Fluffy Wicca (2006), which is aimed at more advanced students with some prior knowledge of Wicca, and Vircle, for Third Circle Studies.\n\nIn 2004, following a reorganization of CFFN which abolished its then clan structure, one of the dissolved clans, Athames's Edge, re-established itself to form an independent Progressive Eclectic Wicca tradition.\n\nLater, in 2008, the first Australian UEW coven, Oak and Mistletoe, split away to establish the Inclusive Wicca tradition.\n\nUEW allows for diverse interpretations of Wiccan practice and belief; provided that a core set of ethical values are observed. These are commonly referred to as the \"Five Points of Wiccan Belief\" and the \"Affirmation of Acknowledgement\".\n\nThe Five Points of Wiccan belief are the Wiccan Rede, the Law of Return, the Ethic of Self-Responsibility, the Ethic of Constant Improvement and the Ethic of Attunement.\n\nIn addition to the 'Five Points', UEW requires its members to assent to the \"Affirmation of Acknowledgement\", which is intended to inform behavior towards, and interaction with, those of other faiths. It states that:\n\nThere are five types of membership recognized in UEW:\n\nThe executive body of CUEW is the three-person Triad. The Triad is solely responsible for extending or withholding membership of CUEW to both individuals and groups. Each member of the Triad is responsible for the selection and training of their successor.\n\nThe Triad is advised and assisted by a Council of Elders. Any Third Circle member may nominate themselves for membership of the Council of Elders. The Council of Elders annually elects one of their number as Chief Elder.\n\nThe Association of Universal Eclectic Wicca Clergy (AUEWC), is responsible for the ratification of Ordained Clergy. CUEW covens with eight or more.\n"}
{"id": "2348509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2348509", "title": "Victor Weisz", "text": "Victor Weisz\n\nVictor Weisz (25 April 1913 in Berlin, Germany - 22 February 1966 in London, England) was a Hungarian-British political cartoonist, drawing under the name of Vicky.\n\nWeisz was born in Berlin, Germany, to Hungarian-Jewish parents. He studied at the Berlin School of Art and by 1928, at the age of fifteen, he was working as a freelancer, drawing caricatures. His father committed suicide that same year and Weisz began work with the journal \"12 Uhr Blatt\". His work also appeared in other German newspapers.\n\nWeisz's cartoons took a very strong anti-Nazi stance. When the Nazis came to power in Germany, they took over the journal where Weisz worked. As a member of the Jewish community with expressed socialist opinions, Weisz decided to leave Germany.\nIn 1935, he came to the United Kingdom, and worked for the \"News Chronicle\", \"Daily Mirror\" and \"Evening Standard\". He maintained an independent stance, whatever the political hue of his employers (Liberal, Labour and Conservative respectively), and built a reputation as an incisive commentator on political events.\n\nAt the \"Daily Mirror\", Weisz published the \"Nazi Nugget\" series. By the 1940s, Weisz, using the pseudonym \"Vicky\", was one of the leading British left-wing cartoonists. Weisz worked alongside fellow left-wing cartoonist Philip Zec at the \"Mirror\" and replaced him as the paper's chief political cartoonist in 1954.\n\nIn the 1950s boom years, many observers felt that the Prime Minister Harold Macmillan's demeanour as an Edwardian aristocrat was out of step with the times. \"Vicky\", as the lead political cartoonist of the \"News Chronicle\", ridiculed him as 'Supermac', a spoof on the American comic-strip hero Superman. Contrary to the cartoonist's intention, the title Supermac benefited Macmillan, who went on to increase his parliamentary majority at the 1959 General Election. Earlier in the 1950s Vicky had produced some memorable cartoons of Macmillan's predecessor, Sir Anthony Eden, which made effective use of the Homburg hat that had been Eden's \"trademark\" in the 1930s.\n\nVictor Weisz followed his father in suffering from depression and insomnia; he committed suicide at his London home on 22 February 1966.\n\n\n"}
