{"id": "36242958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36242958", "title": "Alexander Novak", "text": "Alexander Novak\n\nAlexander Valentinovich Novak (; born 23 August 1971 in Avdiivka, Donetsk Oblast, Ukrainian SSR), is a Russian politician, and the current Minister of Energy of Russia. \n\nIn 1993 he graduated from Norilsk Industrial Institute as a specialist on Economy and Management in Metallurgy. Between 1993–1997 he was economist, Head of the Financial Bureau of the Accounting Department of the Norilsk Mining and Smelting Complex. In 1997 to 1999 he headed the tax planning department of the complex.\n\nFrom 2000 to 2002, he was Norilsk Deputy Mayor for economics and finance, Norilsk first Deputy Mayor. Between 2002 and 2007, he was head of the Main Finance Management of the Krasnoyarsk Krai Administration, Deputy Governor of the Krasnoyarsk Krai and Head of the Main Finance Authority of the Krasnoyarsk Krai.\n\nFrom September 2008 to May 2012 he was Deputy Finance Minister of the Russian Federation. In May 2012 he was appointed as the Energy Minister in Dmitry Medvedev's Cabinet. \n\nSince July 2010 he is a member of United Aircraft Corporation Board of Directors.\n\nIn 2004 he was distinguished by the Governor of the Krasnoyarsk Krai. In 2006 he was rewarded with the medal “For Distinguished Service in Organizing the All-Russia Agricultural Census 2006” of the Russian Federal Statistics Service.\n"}
{"id": "39326319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39326319", "title": "Bonneville Unit Clean Hydropower Facilitation Act", "text": "Bonneville Unit Clean Hydropower Facilitation Act\n\nThe Bonneville Unit Clean Hydropower Facilitation Act () was a bill introduced in the 113th United States Congress which passed in the United States House of Representatives on April 9, 2013. The purpose of the act was to authorize the United States Department of the Interior to facilitate the development of hydroelectric power on the Diamond Fork System of the Central Utah Project. The Central Utah Project is a United States federal water project responsible for power generation, water for irrigation and community use, flood control, and recreation. The bill would alter some of the financial requirements of building a plant in order to facilitate private development.\n\nThe bill was signed into law on July 22, 2013, becoming Public Law 113-20.\n\nAccording to information provided by House Republicans, this bill was necessary to remove financial barriers that were preventing the development of hydropower in this geographic region. Additional background information can be found in House Committee Report 113-25.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\"\n\nThe Bonneville Unit Clean Hydropower Facilitation Act states that its goal is to facilitate hydropower development on the Diamond Fork System in Utah. In order to do this, the act would change some laws regarding the budget of the program. More specifically, one of the changes the bill makes is to say that a certain amount of reimbursable costs allocated to project power in the Power Appendix of the October 2004 Supplement to the 1988 Bonneville Unit Definite Plan Report shall be considered final costs, as well as specified costs in excess of the total maximum repayment obligation, subject to the same terms and conditions.\n\nThere are several additional provisions in the bill. In section 4, it states two things. First, that the Act does not obligate the Western Area Power Administration to purchase or market any of the power produced by the Diamond Fork power plant. Secondly, the act states that none of the costs associated with development of transmission facilities to transmit power from the Diamond Fork power plant shall be assigned to power for the purpose of the Colorado River Storage Project and its ratemaking.\n\nIn section 5 of the bill, it prohibits any hydroelectric power generation or transmission facility on the Diamond Fork System from being financed or refinanced with any obligation whose interest enjoys federal tax-exempt status or which enjoys certain federal tax credits.\n\nSection 6 orders the Department of the Interior to report to the United States House Committee on Natural Resources and the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources if hydropower production on the Diamond Fork System has not commenced 24 months after enactment of this Act, stating the reasons such production has not commenced, and presenting a detailed timeline for future hydropower production.\n\nSection 8 of the act restricts where the funding of these activities can come from. It prohibits the use of Western Area Power Administration borrowing authority under the Hoover Power Plant Act of 1984 to fund any study or construction of transmission facilities developed as a result of the Act.\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office reported that it expected that enacting H.R. 254 would lead to the development of hydropower facilities at the Diamond Fork Project in Utah by a nonfederal entity within a few years, sooner than was expected under current law. Based on information CBO received from the United States Bureau of Reclamation, the CBO estimated that the federal government would receive payments from the hydropower developer of about $4 million over the 2014-2023 period. Enacting the bill would decrease direct spending (by increasing offsetting receipts); therefore, pay-as-you-go procedures apply. Enacting the bill would not affect revenues.\n\nThe Bonneville Unit Clean Hydropower Facilitation Act was introduced into the House on January 15, 2013 by Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT). It was referred to two House committees and one subcommittee - the United States House Committee on the Budget, the United States House Committee on Natural Resources, and the United States House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power. The bill was passed by the House on April 9, 2013 with a vote of 400-4 in Roll Call Vote 90. One Republican and three Democrats voted against it.\n\nThe Bonneville Unit Clean Hydropower Facilitation Act was received in the Senate on April 10, 2013.\n\nThe House Republicans, on their official website, made a statement of support for the passage of H.R. 254. They argued that the bill would remove financial hurdles that are currently preventing developers from starting hydropower projects in the area due to their high costs. The bill would also generate some revenue for the government that it is not making currently.\n\nAn alternative plan to have the government develop a plant at taxpayer expense, and then attempt to pay itself back with revenue from selling the hydropower, was also considered.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31384885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31384885", "title": "CRC Industries", "text": "CRC Industries\n\nCRC Industries is a manufacturer and distributor of industrial chemicals for maintenance and repair of marine, electrical, industrial, automotive and aviation equipment.\n\nIt was founded in 1958 after a verbal agreement between Rocket Chemical, the predecessor of the WD-40 Company, and Charles J. Webb II to distribute WD-40 fell apart. Webb then set up a competitor company in Philadelphia, Corrosion Reaction Consultants, Inc., and hired away Rocket president Norman Larsen to lead it. In 1960 it consisted of Larsen, two chemists and five staff. Its first product was CRC Corrosion Inhibitor, also called 5–56.\n\nThe company has been owned by Berwind Corporation since 1981.\n\nCRC's manufacturing is headquartered in Warminster, Pennsylvania with the corporate office in Horsham, Pennsylvania. It markets products through subsidiaries in the United States, Australia, Germany, Belgium, United Kingdom, China and New Zealand.\n\nTheir facilities in Warminster include a private railroad spur, served by the New Hope and Ivyland Railroad. Traffic on the spur constitutes a sizable portion of the railroad's freight traffic; CRC Industries is their largest freight customer.\n"}
{"id": "5879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5879", "title": "Caesium", "text": "Caesium\n\nCaesium (IUPAC spelling) or cesium (American spelling) is a chemical element with symbol Cs and atomic number 55. It is a soft, silvery-gold alkali metal with a melting point of 28.5 °C (83.3 °F), which makes it one of only five elemental metals that are liquid at or near room temperature. Caesium has physical and chemical properties similar to those of rubidium and potassium. The most reactive of all metals, it is pyrophoric and reacts with water even at −116 °C (−177 °F). It is the least electronegative element, with a value of 0.79 on the Pauling scale. It has only one stable isotope, caesium-133. Caesium is mined mostly from pollucite, while the radioisotopes, especially caesium-137, a fission product, are extracted from waste produced by nuclear reactors.\n\nThe German chemist Robert Bunsen and physicist Gustav Kirchhoff discovered caesium in 1860 by the newly developed method of flame spectroscopy. The first small-scale applications for caesium were as a \"getter\" in vacuum tubes and in photoelectric cells. In 1967, acting on Einstein's proof that the speed of light is the most constant dimension in the universe, the International System of Units used two specific wave counts from an emission spectrum of caesium-133 to co-define the second and the metre. Since then, caesium has been widely used in highly accurate atomic clocks.\n\nSince the 1990s, the largest application of the element has been as caesium formate for drilling fluids, but it has a range of applications in the production of electricity, in electronics, and in chemistry. The radioactive isotope caesium-137 has a half-life of about 30 years and is used in medical applications, industrial gauges, and hydrology. Nonradioactive caesium compounds are only mildly toxic, but the pure metal's tendency to react explosively with water means that caesium is considered a hazardous material, and the radioisotopes present a significant health and ecological hazard in the environment.\n\nCaesium is the softest element (it has a hardness of 0.2 Mohs). It is a very ductile, pale metal, which darkens in the presence of trace amounts of oxygen. When in the presence of mineral oil (where it is best kept during transport), it loses its metallic lustre and takes on a duller, grey appearance. It has a melting point of , making it one of the few elemental metals that are liquid near room temperature. Mercury is the only elemental metal with a known melting point lower than caesium. In addition, the metal has a rather low boiling point, , the lowest of all metals other than mercury. Its compounds burn with a blue or violet colour.\n\nCaesium forms alloys with the other alkali metals, gold, and mercury (amalgams). At temperatures below , it does not alloy with cobalt, iron, molybdenum, nickel, platinum, tantalum, or tungsten. It forms well-defined intermetallic compounds with antimony, gallium, indium, and thorium, which are photosensitive. It mixes with all the other alkali metals (except lithium); the alloy with a molar distribution of 41% caesium, 47% potassium, and 12% sodium has the lowest melting point of any known metal alloy, at . A few amalgams have been studied: is black with a purple metallic lustre, while CsHg is golden-coloured, also with a metallic lustre.\n\nThe golden colour of caesium comes from the decreasing frequency of light required to excite electrons of the alkali metals as the group is descended. For lithium through rubidium this frequency is in the ultraviolet, but for caesium it enters the blue–violet end of the spectrum; in other words, the plasmonic frequency of the alkali metals becomes lower from lithium to caesium. Thus caesium transmits and partially absorbs violet light preferentially while other colours (having lower frequency) are reflected; hence it appears yellowish.\n\nCaesium metal is highly reactive and very pyrophoric. It ignites spontaneously in air, and reacts explosively with water even at low temperatures, more so than the other alkali metals (first group of the periodic table). It reacts with solid water at temperatures as low as . Because of this high reactivity, caesium metal is classified as a hazardous material. It is stored and shipped in dry, saturated hydrocarbons such as mineral oil. It can be handled only under inert gas, such as argon. However, a caesium-water explosion is often less powerful than a sodium-water explosion with a similar amount of sodium. This is because caesium explodes instantly upon contact with water, leaving little time for hydrogen to accumulate. Caesium can be stored in vacuum-sealed borosilicate glass ampoules. In quantities of more than about 100 grams (3.5 oz), caesium is shipped in hermetically sealed, stainless steel containers.\n\nThe chemistry of caesium is similar to that of other alkali metals, in particular rubidium, the element above caesium in the periodic table. As expected for an alkali metal, the only common oxidation state is +1. Some small differences arise from the fact that it has a higher atomic mass and is more electropositive than other (nonradioactive) alkali metals. Caesium is the most electropositive chemical element. The caesium ion is also larger and less \"hard\" than those of the lighter alkali metals.\n\nMost caesium compounds contain the element as the cation , which binds ionically to a wide variety of anions. One noteworthy exception is the caeside anion (), and others are the several suboxides (see section on oxides below).\n\nSalts of Cs are usually colourless unless the anion itself is coloured. Many of the simple salts are hygroscopic, but less so than the corresponding salts of lighter alkali metals. The phosphate, acetate, carbonate, halides, oxide, nitrate, and sulfate salts are water-soluble. Double salts are often less soluble, and the low solubility of caesium aluminium sulfate is exploited in refining Cs from ores. The double salt with antimony (such as ), bismuth, cadmium, copper, iron, and lead are also poorly soluble.\n\nCaesium hydroxide (CsOH) is hygroscopic and strongly basic. It rapidly etches the surface of semiconductors such as silicon. CsOH has been previously regarded by chemists as the \"strongest base\", reflecting the relatively weak attraction between the large Cs ion and OH; it is indeed the strongest Arrhenius base, but a number of compounds that do not dissolve in water, such as \"n\"-butyllithium and sodium amide, are more basic.\n\nA stoichiometric mixture of caesium and gold will react to form yellow caesium auride (CsAu) upon heating. The auride anion here behaves as a pseudohalogen. The compound reacts violently with water, yielding caesium hydroxide, metallic gold, and hydrogen gas; in liquid ammonia it can be reacted with a caesium-specific ion exchange resin to produce tetramethylammonium auride. The analogous platinum compound, red caesium platinide (CsPt), contains the platinide ion that behaves as a pseudochalcogen.\n\nLike all metal cations, Cs forms complexes with Lewis bases in solution. Because of its large size, Cs usually adopts coordination numbers greater than 6, the number typical for the smaller alkali metal cations. This difference is apparent in the 8-coordination of CsCl. This high coordination number and softness (tendency to form covalent bonds) are properties exploited in separating Cs from other cations in the remediation of nuclear wastes, where Cs must be separated from large amounts of nonradioactive K.\n\nCaesium fluoride (CsF) is a hygroscopic white solid that is widely used in organofluorine chemistry as a source of fluoride anions. Caesium fluoride has the halite structure, which means that the Cs and F pack in a cubic closest packed array as do Na and Cl in sodium chloride. Notably, caesium and fluorine have the lowest and highest electronegativities, respectively, among all the known elements.\n\nCaesium chloride (CsCl) crystallizes in the simple cubic crystal system. Also called the \"caesium chloride structure\", this structural motif is composed of a primitive cubic lattice with a two-atom basis, each with an eightfold coordination; the chloride atoms lie upon the lattice points at the edges of the cube, while the caesium atoms lie in the holes in the centre of the cubes. This structure is shared with CsBr and CsI, and many other compounds that do not contain Cs. In contrast, most other alkaline halides have the sodium chloride (NaCl) structure. The CsCl structure is preferred because Cs has an ionic radius of 174 pm and 181 pm.\n\nMore so than the other alkali metals, caesium forms numerous binary compounds with oxygen. When caesium burns in air, the superoxide is the main product. The \"normal\" caesium oxide () forms yellow-orange hexagonal crystals, and is the only oxide of the anti- type. It vaporizes at , and decomposes to caesium metal and the peroxide at temperatures above . In addition to the superoxide and the ozonide , several brightly coloured suboxides have also been studied. These include , , , (dark-green), CsO, , as well as . The latter may be heated in a vacuum to generate . Binary compounds with sulfur, selenium, and tellurium also exist.\n\nCaesium has 39 known isotopes, ranging in mass number (i.e. number of nucleons in the nucleus) from 112 to 151. Several of these are synthesized from lighter elements by the slow neutron capture process (S-process) inside old stars and by the R-process in supernova explosions. The only stable caesium isotope is Cs, with 78 neutrons. Although it has a large nuclear spin (+), nuclear magnetic resonance studies can use this isotope at a resonating frequency of 11.7 MHz.\n\nThe radioactive Cs has a very long half-life of about 2.3 million years, longest of all radioactive isotopes of caesium. Cs and Cs have half-lives of 30 and two years, respectively. Cs decomposes to a short-lived Ba by beta decay, and then to nonradioactive barium, while Cs transforms into Ba directly. The isotopes with mass numbers of 129, 131, 132 and 136, have half-lives between a day and two weeks, while most of the other isotopes have half-lives from a few seconds to fractions of a second. At least 21 metastable nuclear isomers exist. Other than Cs (with a half-life of just under 3 hours), all are very unstable and decay with half-lives of a few minutes or less.\n\nThe isotope Cs is one of the long-lived fission products of uranium produced in nuclear reactors. However, this fission product yield is reduced in most reactors because the predecessor, Xe, is a potent neutron poison and frequently transmutes to stable Xe before it can decay to Cs.\n\nThe beta decay from Cs to Ba is a strong emission of gamma radiation. Cs and Sr are the principal medium-lived products of nuclear fission, and the prime sources of radioactivity from spent nuclear fuel after several years of cooling, lasting several hundred years. Those two isotopes are the largest source of residual radioactivity in the area of the Chernobyl disaster. Because of the low capture rate, disposing of Cs through neutron capture is not feasible and the only current solution is to allow it to decay over time.\n\nAlmost all caesium produced from nuclear fission comes from the beta decay of originally more neutron-rich fission products, passing through various isotopes of iodine and xenon. Because iodine and xenon are volatile and can diffuse through nuclear fuel or air, radioactive caesium is often created far from the original site of fission. With nuclear weapons testing in the 1950s through the 1980s, Cs was released into the atmosphere and returned to the surface of the earth as a component of radioactive fallout. It is a ready marker of the movement of soil and sediment from those times.\n\nCaesium is a relatively rare element estimated to average 3 parts per million in the Earth's crust. It is the 45th most abundant element and the 36th among the metals. Nevertheless, it is more abundant than such elements as antimony, cadmium, tin, and tungsten, and two orders of magnitude more abundant than mercury and silver; it is 3.3% as abundant as rubidium, with which it is closely associated, chemically.\n\nDue to its large ionic radius, caesium is one of the \"incompatible elements\". During magma crystallization, caesium is concentrated in the liquid phase and crystallizes last. Therefore, the largest deposits of caesium are zone pegmatite ore bodies formed by this enrichment process. Because caesium does not substitute for potassium as readily as rubidium, the alkali evaporite minerals sylvite (KCl) and carnallite () may contain only 0.002% caesium. Consequently, Cs is found in few minerals. Percentage amounts of caesium may be found in beryl () and avogadrite (), up to 15 wt% CsO in the closely related mineral pezzottaite (Cs(BeLi)AlSiO), up to 8.4 wt% CsO in the rare mineral londonite (), and less in the more widespread rhodizite. The only economically important ore for caesium is pollucite , which is found in a few places around the world in zoned pegmatites, associated with the more commercially important lithium minerals, lepidolite and petalite. Within the pegmatites, the large grain size and the strong separation of the minerals results in high-grade ore for mining.\n\nOne of the world's most significant and richest sources of caesium is the Tanco Mine at Bernic Lake in Manitoba, Canada, estimated to contain 350,000 metric tons of pollucite ore, representing more than two-thirds of the world's reserve base. Although the stoichiometric content of caesium in pollucite is 42.6%, pure pollucite samples from this deposit contain only about 34% caesium, while the average content is 24 wt%. Commercial pollucite contains more than 19% caesium. The Bikita pegmatite deposit in Zimbabwe is mined for its petalite, but it also contains a significant amount of pollucite. Another notable source of pollucite is in the Karibib Desert, Namibia. At the present rate of world mine production of 5 to 10 metric tons per year, reserves will last for thousands of years.\n\nMining and refining pollucite ore is a selective process and is conducted on a smaller scale than for most other metals. The ore is crushed, hand-sorted, but not usually concentrated, and then ground. Caesium is then extracted from pollucite primarily by three methods: acid digestion, alkaline decomposition, and direct reduction.\n\nIn the acid digestion, the silicate pollucite rock is dissolved with strong acids, such as hydrochloric (HCl), sulfuric (), hydrobromic (HBr), or hydrofluoric (HF) acids. With hydrochloric acid, a mixture of soluble chlorides is produced, and the insoluble chloride double salts of caesium are precipitated as caesium antimony chloride (), caesium iodine chloride (), or caesium hexachlorocerate (). After separation, the pure precipitated double salt is decomposed, and pure CsCl is precipitated by evaporating the water.\n\nThe sulfuric acid method yields the insoluble double salt directly as caesium alum (). The aluminium sulfate component is converted to insoluble aluminium oxide by roasting the alum with carbon, and the resulting product is leached with water to yield a solution.\n\nRoasting pollucite with calcium carbonate and calcium chloride yields insoluble calcium silicates and soluble caesium chloride. Leaching with water or dilute ammonia () yields a dilute chloride (CsCl) solution. This solution can be evaporated to produce caesium chloride or transformed into caesium alum or caesium carbonate. Though not commercially feasible, the ore can be directly reduced with potassium, sodium, or calcium in vacuum can produce caesium metal directly.\n\nMost of the mined caesium (as salts) is directly converted into caesium formate (HCOOCs) for applications such as oil drilling. To supply the developing market, Cabot Corporation built a production plant in 1997 at the Tanco mine near Bernic Lake in Manitoba, with a capacity of per year of caesium formate solution. The primary smaller-scale commercial compounds of caesium are caesium chloride and nitrate.\n\nAlternatively, caesium metal may be obtained from the purified compounds derived from the ore. Caesium chloride and the other caesium halides can be reduced at with calcium or barium, and caesium metal distilled from the result. In the same way, the aluminate, carbonate, or hydroxide may be reduced by magnesium.\n\nThe metal can also be isolated by electrolysis of fused caesium cyanide (CsCN). Exceptionally pure and gas-free caesium can be produced by thermal decomposition of caesium azide , which can be produced from aqueous caesium sulfate and barium azide. In vacuum applications, caesium dichromate can be reacted with zirconium to produce pure caesium metal without other gaseous products.\n\nThe price of 99.8% pure caesium (metal basis) in 2009 was about US$10 per gram ($280 per ounce), but the compounds are significantly cheaper.\n\nIn 1860, Robert Bunsen and Gustav Kirchhoff discovered caesium in the mineral water from Dürkheim, Germany. Because of the bright blue lines in the emission spectrum, they derived the name from the Latin word \"caesius\", meaning sky-blue. Caesium was the first element to be discovered with a spectroscope, which had been invented by Bunsen and Kirchhoff only a year previously.\n\nTo obtain a pure sample of caesium, of mineral water had to be evaporated to yield of concentrated salt solution. The alkaline earth metals were precipitated either as sulfates or oxalates, leaving the alkali metal in the solution. After conversion to the nitrates and extraction with ethanol, a sodium-free mixture was obtained. From this mixture, the lithium was precipitated by ammonium carbonate. Potassium, rubidium, and caesium form insoluble salts with chloroplatinic acid, but these salts show a slight difference in solubility in hot water, and the less-soluble caesium and rubidium hexachloroplatinate ((Cs,Rb)PtCl) were obtained by fractional crystallization. After reduction of the hexachloroplatinate with hydrogen, caesium and rubidium were separated by the difference in solubility of their carbonates in alcohol. The process yielded of rubidium chloride and of caesium chloride from the initial 44,000 litres of mineral water.\n\nFrom the caesium chloride, the two scientists estimated the atomic weight of the new element at 123.35 (compared to the currently accepted one of 132.9). They tried to generate elemental caesium by electrolysis of molten caesium chloride, but instead of a metal, they obtained a blue homogeneous substance which \"neither under the naked eye nor under the microscope showed the slightest trace of metallic substance\"; as a result, they assigned it as a subchloride (). In reality, the product was probably a colloidal mixture of the metal and caesium chloride. The electrolysis of the aqueous solution of chloride with a mercury cathode produced a caesium amalgam which readily decomposed under the aqueous conditions. The pure metal was eventually isolated by the German chemist Carl Setterberg while working on his doctorate with Kekulé and Bunsen. In 1882, he produced caesium metal by electrolysing caesium cyanide, avoiding the problems with the chloride.\n\nHistorically, the most important use for caesium has been in research and development, primarily in chemical and electrical fields. Very few applications existed for caesium until the 1920s, when it came into use in radio vacuum tubes, where it had two functions; as a getter, it removed excess oxygen after manufacture, and as a coating on the heated cathode, it increased the electrical conductivity. Caesium was not recognized as a high-performance industrial metal until the 1950s. Applications for nonradioactive caesium included photoelectric cells, photomultiplier tubes, optical components of infrared spectrophotometers, catalysts for several organic reactions, crystals for scintillation counters, and in magnetohydrodynamic power generators. Caesium also was, and still is, used as a source of positive ions in secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS).\n\nSince 1967, the International System of Measurements has based the primary unit of time, the second, on the properties of caesium. The International System of Units (SI) defines the second as the duration of 9,192,631,770 cycles at the microwave frequency of the spectral line corresponding to the transition between two hyperfine energy levels of the ground state of caesium-133. The 13th General Conference on Weights and Measures of 1967 defined a second as: \"the duration of 9,192,631,770 cycles of microwave light absorbed or emitted by the hyperfine transition of caesium-133 atoms in their ground state undisturbed by external fields\".\n\nThe largest present-day use of nonradioactive caesium is in caesium formate drilling fluids for the extractive oil industry. Aqueous solutions of caesium formate (HCOOCs)—made by reacting caesium hydroxide with formic acid—were developed in the mid-1990s for use as oil well drilling and completion fluids. The function of a drilling fluid is to lubricate drill bits, to bring rock cuttings to the surface, and to maintain pressure on the formation during drilling of the well. Completion fluids assist the emplacement of control hardware after drilling but prior to production by maintaining the pressure.\n\nThe high density of the caesium formate brine (up to 2.3 g/cm, or 19.2 pounds per gallon), coupled with the relatively benign nature of most caesium compounds, reduces the requirement for toxic high-density suspended solids in the drilling fluid—a significant technological, engineering and environmental advantage. Unlike the components of many other heavy liquids, caesium formate is relatively environment-friendly. Caesium formate brine can be blended with potassium and sodium formates to decrease the density of the fluids to that of water (1.0 g/cm, or 8.3 pounds per gallon). Furthermore, it is biodegradable and may be recycled, which is important in view of its high cost (about $4,000 per barrel in 2001). Alkali formates are safe to handle and do not damage the producing formation or downhole metals as corrosive alternative, high-density brines (such as zinc bromide solutions) sometimes do; they also require less cleanup and reduce disposal costs.\n\nCaesium-based atomic clocks use the electromagnetic transitions in the hyperfine structure of caesium-133 atoms as a reference point. The first accurate caesium clock was built by Louis Essen in 1955 at the National Physical Laboratory in the UK. Caesium clocks have improved over the past half-century and are regarded as \"the most accurate realization of a unit that mankind has yet achieved.\" These clocks measure frequency with an error of 2 to 3 parts in 10, which corresponding to an accuracy of 2 nanoseconds per day, or one second in 1.4 million years. The latest versions are more accurate than 1 part in 10, about 1 second in 20 million years. The Caesium standard is the primary standard for standards-compliant time and frequency measurements. Caesium clocks regulate the timing of cell phone networks and the Internet.\n\nIt is currently (2018) being proposed by the International Committee for Weights and Measures (CIPM) that the second, symbol s, the SI unit of time, be defined using the fixed numerical value of the caesium frequency Δ\"ν\", the unperturbed ground-state hyperfine transition frequency of the caesium 133 atom.\n\nCaesium vapour thermionic generators are low-power devices that convert heat energy to electrical energy. In the two-electrode vacuum tube converter, caesium neutralizes the space charge near the cathode and enhances the current flow.\n\nCaesium is also important for its photoemissive properties, converting light to electron flow. It is used in photoelectric cells because caesium-based cathodes, such as the intermetallic compound , have a low threshold voltage for emission of electrons. The range of photoemissive devices using caesium include optical character recognition devices, photomultiplier tubes, and video camera tubes. Nevertheless, germanium, rubidium, selenium, silicon, tellurium, and several other elements can be substituted for caesium in photosensitive materials.\n\nCaesium iodide (CsI), bromide (CsBr) and caesium fluoride (CsF) crystals are employed for scintillators in scintillation counters widely used in mineral exploration and particle physics research to detect gamma and X-ray radiation. Being a heavy element, caesium provides good stopping power with better detection. Caesium compounds may provide a faster response (CsF) and be less hygroscopic (CsI).\n\nCaesium vapour is used in many common magnetometers.\n\nThe element is used as an internal standard in spectrophotometry. Like other alkali metals, caesium has a great affinity for oxygen and is used as a \"getter\" in vacuum tubes. Other uses of the metal include high-energy lasers, vapour glow lamps, and vapour rectifiers.\n\nThe high density of the caesium ion makes solutions of caesium chloride, caesium sulfate, and caesium trifluoroacetate () useful in molecular biology for density gradient ultracentrifugation. This technology is used primarily in the isolation of viral particles, subcellular organelles and fractions, and nucleic acids from biological samples.\n\nRelatively few chemical applications use caesium. Doping with caesium compounds enhances the effectiveness of several metal-ion catalysts for chemical synthesis, such as acrylic acid, anthraquinone, ethylene oxide, methanol, phthalic anhydride, styrene, methyl methacrylate monomers, and various olefins. It is also used in the catalytic conversion of sulfur dioxide into sulfur trioxide in the production of sulfuric acid. \n\nCaesium fluoride enjoys a niche use in organic chemistry as a base and as an anhydrous source of fluoride ion. Caesium salts sometimes replace potassium or sodium salts in organic synthesis, such as cyclization, esterification, and polymerization. Caesium has also been used in thermoluminescent radiation dosimetry : When exposed to radiation, it acquires crystal defects that, when heated, revert with emission of light proportionate to the received dose. Thus, measuring the light pulse with a photomultiplier tube can allow the accumulated radiation dose to be quantified.\n\nCaesium-137 is a radioisotope commonly used as a gamma-emitter in industrial applications. Its advantages include a half-life of roughly 30 years, its availability from the nuclear fuel cycle, and having Ba as a stable end product. The high water solubility is a disadvantage which makes it incompatible with large pool irradiators for food and medical supplies. It has been used in agriculture, cancer treatment, and the sterilization of food, sewage sludge, and surgical equipment. Radioactive isotopes of caesium in radiation devices were used in the medical field to treat certain types of cancer, but emergence of better alternatives and the use of water-soluble caesium chloride in the sources, which could create wide-ranging contamination, gradually put some of these caesium sources out of use. Caesium-137 has been employed in a variety of industrial measurement gauges, including moisture, density, levelling, and thickness gauges. It has also been used in well logging devices for measuring the electron density of the rock formations, which is analogous to the bulk density of the formations.\n\nCaesium-137 has been used in hydrologic studies analogous to those with tritium. As a daughter product of fission bomb testing from the 1950s through the mid-1980s, caesium-137 was released into the atmosphere, where it was absorbed readily into solution. Known year-to-year variation within that period allows correlation with soil and sediment layers. Caesium-134, and to a lesser extent caesium-135, have also been used in hydrology to measure the caesium output by the nuclear power industry. While they are less prevalent than either caesium-133 or caesium-137, these bellwether isotopes are produced solely from anthropogenic sources.\n\nCaesium and mercury were used as a propellant in early ion engines designed for spacecraft propulsion on very long interplanetary or extraplanetary missions. The fuel was ionized by contact with a charged tungsten electrode. But corrosion by caesium on spacecraft components has pushed development in the direction of inert gas propellants, such as xenon, which are easier to handle in ground-based tests and do less potential damage to the spacecraft. Xenon was used in the experimental spacecraft Deep Space 1 launched in 1998. Nevertheless, field-emission electric propulsion thrusters that accelerate liquid metal ions such as caesium have been built.\n\nCaesium nitrate is used as an oxidizer and pyrotechnic colorant to burn silicon in infrared flares, such as the LUU-19 flare, because it emits much of its light in the near infrared spectrum. Caesium is used to reduce the radar signature of exhaust plumes in the SR-71 Blackbird military aircraft. Caesium and rubidium have been added as a carbonate to glass because they reduce electrical conductivity and improve stability and durability of fibre optics and night vision devices. Caesium fluoride or caesium aluminium fluoride are used in fluxes formulated for brazing aluminium alloys that contain magnesium.\n\nMagnetohydrodynamic (MHD) power-generating systems were researched, but failed to gain widespread acceptance. Caesium metal has also been considered as the working fluid in high-temperature Rankine cycle turboelectric generators.\n\nCaesium salts have been evaluated as antishock reagents following the administration of arsenical drugs. Because of their effect on heart rhythms, however, they are less likely to be used than potassium or rubidium salts. They have also been used to treat epilepsy.\n\nCaesium-133 can be laser cooled and used to probe fundamental and technological problems in quantum physics. It has a particularly convenient Feshbach spectrum to enable studies of ultracold atoms requiring tunable interactions.\n\nNonradioactive caesium compounds are only mildly toxic and nonradioactive caesium is not a significant environmental hazard. Because biochemical processes can confuse and substitute caesium with potassium, excess caesium can lead to hypokalemia, arrhythmia, and acute cardiac arrest. But such amounts would not ordinarily be encountered in natural sources.\n\nThe median lethal dose (LD) for caesium chloride in mice is 2.3 g per kilogram, which is comparable to the LD values of potassium chloride and sodium chloride. The principal use of nonradioactive caesium is as caesium formate in petroleum drilling fluids because it is much less toxic than alternatives, though it is more costly.\n\nCaesium metal is one of the most reactive elements and is highly explosive in the presence of water. The hydrogen gas produced by the reaction is heated by the thermal energy released at the same time, causing ignition and a violent explosion. This can occur with other alkali metals, but caesium is so potent that this explosive reaction can be triggered even by cold water.\n\nIt is highly pyrophoric: the autoignition temperature of caesium is −116 °C, and it ignites explosively in air to form caesium hydroxide and various oxides. Caesium hydroxide is a very strong base, and will rapidly corrode glass.\n\nThe isotopes 134 and 137 are present in the biosphere in small amounts from human activities, differing by location. Radiocaesium does not accumulate in the body as readily as other fission products (such as radioiodine and radiostrontium). About 10% of absorbed radiocaesium washes out of the body relatively quickly in sweat and urine. The remaining 90% has a biological half-life between 50 and 150 days. Radiocaesium follows potassium and tends to accumulate in plant tissues, including fruits and vegetables. Plants vary widely in the absorption of caesium, sometimes displaying great resistance to it. It is also well-documented that mushrooms from contaminated forests accumulate radiocaesium (caesium-137) in the fungal sporocarps. Accumulation of caesium-137 in lakes has been a great concern after the Chernobyl disaster. Experiments with dogs showed that a single dose of 3.8 millicuries (140 MBq, 4.1 μg of caesium-137) per kilogram is lethal within three weeks; smaller amounts may cause infertility and cancer. The International Atomic Energy Agency and other sources have warned that radioactive materials, such as caesium-137, could be used in radiological dispersion devices, or \"dirty bombs\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1461048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1461048", "title": "Chicken wire (chemistry)", "text": "Chicken wire (chemistry)\n\nIn chemistry the term chicken wire is used in different contexts. Most of them relate to the similarity of the regular hexagonal (honeycomb-like) patterns found in certain chemical compounds to the mesh structure commonly seen in real chicken wire.\n\nPolycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons or graphenes—including fullerenes, carbon nanotubes, and graphite—have a hexagonal structure that is often described as \"chicken wire-like\".\n\nA hexagonal structure that is often described as \"chicken wire-like\" can also be found in other types of chemical compounds such as:\n\nThe skeletal formula is a method to draw structural formulas of organic compounds where lines represent the chemical bonds and the vertices represent implicit carbon atoms. This notation is sometimes jestingly called \"chicken wire notation\".\n\n\"Chicken wire\" is sometimes used as a placeholder name for any organic compound, similar to the use of the name John Doe.\n\nIt is an old joke in chemistry to draw a polycyclic hexagonal chemical structure and call this fictional compound \"chickenwire\". By adding one or two simple chemical groups to this skeleton, the compound can then be named following the official chemical naming convention. Examples are:\n\n\nIn computational chemistry a \"chicken wire model\" or \"chicken wire surface plot\" is a way to visualize molecular models by drawing the polygon mesh of their surface (defined e.g. as the van der Waals radius or a certain electron density). \n"}
{"id": "3163517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3163517", "title": "Chromium carbide", "text": "Chromium carbide\n\nChromium carbide is a ceramic compound that exists in several different chemical compositions: CrC, CrC,and CrC. At standard conditions it exists as a gray solid. It is extremely hard and corrosion resistant. It is also a refractory compound, which means that it retains its strength at high temperatures as well. These properties make it useful as an additive to metal alloys. When chromium carbide crystals are integrated into the surface of a metal it improves the wear resistance and corrosion resistance of the metal, and maintains these properties at elevated temperatures. The hardest and most commonly used composition for this purpose is CrC.\n\nRelated minerals include tongbaite and isovite, (Cr,Fe)C, both extremely rare. Yet another chromium-rich carbide mineral is yarlongite, CrFeNiC.\n\nThere are three different crystal structures for chromium carbide corresponding to the three different chemical compositions. CrC has a cubic crystal structure and a Vickers hardness of 976 kg/mm. CrC has a hexagonal crystal structure and a microhardness of 1336 kg/mm. CrC is the most durable of the three compositions, and has an orthorhombic crystal structure with a microhardness of 2280 kg/mm. For this reason CrC is the primary form of chromium carbide used in surface treatment.\n\nSynthesis of chromium carbide can be achieved through mechanical alloying. In this type of process metallic chromium and pure carbon in the form of graphite are loaded into a ball mill and ground into a fine powder. After the components have been ground they are pressed into a pellet and subjected to hot isostatic pressing. Hot isostatic pressing utilizes an inert gas, primarily argon, in a sealed oven. This pressurized gas applies pressure to the sample from all directions while the oven is heated. The heat and pressure cause the graphite and metallic chromium to react with one another and form chromium carbide. Decreasing the percentage of carbon content in the initial mixture results in an increase in the yield of the CrC, and CrC forms of chromium carbide.\n\nAnother method for the synthesis of chromium carbide utilizes chromium oxide, pure aluminum, and graphite in a self-propagating exothermic reaction that proceeds as follows:\n\nIn this method the reactants are ground and blended in a ball mill. The blended powder is then pressed into a pellet and placed under an inert atmosphere of argon. The sample is then heated. A heated wire, a spark, a laser, or an oven may provide the heat. The exothermic reaction is initiated, and the resulting heat propagates the reaction throughout the rest of the sample.\n\nChromium carbide is useful in the surface treatment of metal components. Chromium carbide is used to coat the surface of another metal in a technique known as thermal spraying. CrC powder is mixed with solid nickel-chromium. This mixture is then heated to very high temperatures and sprayed onto the object being coated where it forms a protective layer. This layer is essentially its own metal matrix composite, consisting of hard ceramic CrC particles embedded in a nickel-chromium matrix. The matrix itself contributes to the corrosion resistance of the coating because both nickel and chromium are corrosion resistant in their metallic form. After over spraying the coating, the coated part must run through a diffusion heat treatment to reach the best results in matter of coupling strength to the basemetal and also in matter of hardness.\nAnother technique utilizes chromium carbide in the form of overlay plates. These are prefabricated chromium carbide coated steel plates, which are meant to be welded onto existing structures or machinery in order to improve performance.\nChromium carbide is used as an additive in cutting tools made out of cemented carbides, in order to improve toughness by preventing the growth of large grains. The primary constituent in most extremely hard cutting tools is tungsten carbide. The tungsten carbide is combined with other carbides such as titanium carbide, niobium carbide, and chromium carbide and sintered together with a cobalt matrix. CrC prevents large grains from forming in the composite, which results in a fine-grained structure of superior toughness.\n\n"}
{"id": "52040042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52040042", "title": "Demanufacture", "text": "Demanufacture\n\nDemanufacture is a process in the treatment of products and materials for recycling. In the case of waste electronics demanufacture involves dismantling them into their components. In the case of material demanufacture this may be a chemical process, such as in treatment of waste plastics breaking down long polymers into smaller polymers.\n"}
{"id": "3357839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3357839", "title": "Deposition (aerosol physics)", "text": "Deposition (aerosol physics)\n\nIn aerosol physics, deposition is the process by which aerosol particles collect or deposit themselves on solid surfaces, decreasing the concentration of the particles in the air. It can be divided into two sub-processes: \"dry\" and \"wet\" deposition. The rate of deposition, or the deposition velocity, is slowest for particles of an intermediate size. Mechanisms for deposition are most effective for either very small or very large particles. Very large particles will settle out quickly through sedimentation (settling) or impaction processes, while Brownian diffusion has the greatest influence on small particles. This is because very small particles coagulate in few hours until they achieve a diameter of 0.3 micrometres. At this size they no longer coagulate. This has a great influence in the amount of PM-2.5 present in the air.\n\n\"Deposition velocity\" is defined from , where is flux density, is deposition velocity and is concentration. In gravitational deposition, this velocity is the settling velocity due to the gravity-induced drag.\n\nOften studied is whether or not a certain particle will impact with a certain obstacle. This can be predicted with the Stokes number , where is stopping distance (which depends on particle size, velocity and drag forces), and is characteristic size (often the diameter of the obstacle). If the value of Stk is less than 1, the particle will not collide with that obstacle. However, if the value of Stk is greater than 1, it will.\n\nDeposition due to Brownian motion obeys both Fick's first and second laws. The resulting deposition flux is defined as , where is deposition flux, is the initial number density, is the diffusion constant and is time. This can be integrated to determine the concentration at each moment of time.\n\nDry deposition is caused by:\n\nIn wet deposition, atmospheric hydrometeors (rain drops, snow etc.) scavenge aerosol particles. This means that wet deposition is gravitational, Brownian and/or turbulent coagulation with water droplets. Different types of wet deposition include:\n\n"}
{"id": "5218359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5218359", "title": "EVER Monaco", "text": "EVER Monaco\n\nEVER Monaco is annual exhibition and conference event showcasing the latest renewable energy technology with a focus on vehicle design. \"EVER\" is a (somewhat flawed) acronym for \"ecologic vehicles and renewable energies.\"\n\nThe Venturi Fetish, the world’s first production two-seater electric sports car, became the sensation of the first EVER, held in 2005. The Fetish has a range of 250 to 350 km (155 to 217 miles) and boasts a 0–100 km/h (0–60 mph) time of 4.5 seconds.\n\nThe 2009 EVER took place in and around Monaco’s Grimaldi Forum, a 35,000-m² (377,000-sq. ft.) arena on the shores of the Mediterranean Sea, from 26 to 29 March.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25920006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25920006", "title": "Ecohouse", "text": "Ecohouse\n\nAn Eco-house (or eco-home) is an environmentally low-impact home designed and built using materials and technology that reduces its carbon footprint and lowers its energy needs.\n\nAn eco house could include some or all of the following:\n\nThe concept of an eco-house means a dwelling that has a low impact on the environment.\n\nBuildings use up enormous amounts of energy. Some calculations make it as much as 70% of all the energy used in the UK when all the factors are taken into account. This energy is mainly for heating and lighting and therefore the aim is to design houses that are well insulated and make the best use of natural light.\n\nIncreasing the amount of thermal insulation is the main component of preventing energy loss. This includes draft exclusion, glazing, wall and roof insulation.\n\nIn the northern hemisphere, a south facing site will be a much better location than a north facing site because of access to sunlight and protection from the cold northerly wind. An eco-house starts life facing the sun.\n\nIdeally the site for the house should have a south westerly aspect and be protected from the north and east. It’s not always possible to do this but there will usually be an opportunity to take advantage of the passive solar gain by having more glazing on either the front or the back of the building. Planting trees and creating wind breaks on the north and east sides of the site can enhanced the solar gain effect by protecting the house from the cold north easterly winds.\n\nHaving faced the house towards the sun, high performance windows are used to draw in as much light and warmth as possible. Sunlight then floods into the house and any heat generated is retained by a highly insulated building shell, draught proof windows and doors and thermal mass within the building.\n\nOrientation towards the sun also means that active solar systems can be fitted, both solar water heating panels and electricity generating solar panels on the roofs, further adding to the free heat and electricity gained from the sun.\n\nLiving in the house also generates heat. Active human beings can produce as much heat as a one bar electric fire. Add to this heat from cooking, washing, lights etc. and you can begin to see how an eco-house could get too hot. Conventionally opening the windows reduces heat, but an eco-house design could include heat recovery ventilation systems. \n\nThese systems extract the warm, moist air from bathrooms and kitchens and take the heat out of the stale, damp air before venting it outside. The heat recovery system transfers this collected heat to fresh air coming into the building and distributes it to the bedrooms and living rooms. Fresh air, at room temperature. An added benefit is that filters can be fitted on the air intake to provide a barrier to pollen or other irritants.\n\nWith the passive and active solar gains, insulation, draft proofed building shell and heat recovery system, eco-houses could be zero heat, that is, in theory, you shouldn’t need to keep pumping heat into them from a central heating system. In practice life isn’t like that. Kids leave the door open, pets come in and out, people go out all day, cold snaps happen and some people like to sleep with the window open. An eco-house can incorporate design to have heating systems that can react quickly and efficiently to any changes in room temperature as well as providing a heat boost to the water temperature down-stream of the solar panels.\n\nOther benefits of an eco-house, aside from the obvious one of having minimal heating costs, are a healthy living environment. The heat recovery system can eliminate dampness and the moulds that are so often a health hazard. The air intake filters prevent dust coming in with the incoming fresh air and the internal vacuum cleaner system extracts dust from the house and vents it (via the dust collection bag and filter) to the outside, thus no microscopic particles of dust remain in the house.\n\nLoad bearing internal walls are minimised to allow rearrangements of the interior spaces, and the build technology is such that local trades can carry out alterations and easy maintenance.\n\nFor the health of the householder, and the planet, an eco-house should be built with materials that are free, wherever possible, from toxins or harmful products of the petro-chemical industry. \n\nOne of the wider issues of energy efficiency is the embodied energy within the construction materials. (Embodied energy is the energy taken up with producing and transporting the materials used).\n\nWood is a primary building material for eco-housing. This is because trees grow using energy from the sun, they don’t pollute, they produce oxygen, absorb CO2, they provide a wild life habitat, they can be replanted, they can be sourced locally, the timber can easily be put to some other use after a building is demolished.\n\nCement is a very useful building material and there are places where we have to be practical and use it. However, one alternative to cement is lime. Lime has been used as a building material for thousands of years and although energy and CO2 are used in its production it gently returns back to limestone in time, taking in CO2 in the process. \n\nThere is also the use reclaimed materials, particularly bricks, slates and roof tiles, to make use of the embodied energy within these materials. This can also help new buildings to blend in with their surroundings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39234316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39234316", "title": "Efficiency Vermont", "text": "Efficiency Vermont\n\nEfficiency Vermont is a program that promotes and facilitates energy efficiency across the state of Vermont. Created in 2000 at the behest of the Vermont Public Service Board, it has substantially reduced electrical demand and more than balanced load growth in recent years. It is sometimes referred to as an energy efficiency utility. It is operated by the nonprofit Vermont Energy Investment Corporation.\n\n"}
{"id": "37087918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37087918", "title": "Electronic beam curing", "text": "Electronic beam curing\n\nElectronic Beam curing (EBC) is a surface curing process in the manufacture of high pressure laminate (HPL) boards. The process applies color to a single sheet of Kraft paper which is adhered to a HPL board in such a way that it will keep its color durably while remaining scratch-resistant. Unlike other HPL creation methods, EBC does not use heat.\n\nThe EBC machine used in the curing process gives the finished HPL boards a surface that is both color-fade resistant and has a high resistance to damage. The process works by first mixing color pastes to the desired color and then applying it to a single sheet of kraft paper. This substrate is then put in the EBC machine together with a protective foil. In the machine this sheet is then shot with electrons at such high velocity that the color impregnated paper hardens almost instantly. After being stored in a temperature-controlled room for a short duration the sheets are ready to be adhered to unfinished HPL boards in a process called dry forming.\n"}
{"id": "1746481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1746481", "title": "Energy Research Centre of the Netherlands", "text": "Energy Research Centre of the Netherlands\n\nThe Energy Research Centre of the Netherlands (ECN) is one of the largest energy research institute in Europe and holds a strong international position. With and for the market, ECN develops knowledge and technology that enable a transition to a sustainable energy system. The main office is located in Petten. ECN also has offices in Amsterdam, Eindhoven, Wieringermeer, Brussels and China. ECN has a staff of about 550 employees.\n\nECN’s research and technology development focuses on:\n\nThe total package of sustainable energy generation, clean use of fossil fuels and reduction of total energy use are key topics. ECN also conducts research on future opportunities and economic backgrounds in the field of energy.\n\nECN researchers disseminate their results in publications such as reports, peer reviewed articles in scientific and professional journals, conference contributions and books and chapters in books. In 2011, ECN published 481 reports (public and confidential) and 176 articles in scientific journals.\n\nECN participates in international projects, advises authorities and collaborates with the industry in the Netherlands, Europe and worldwide. A number of examples:\n\nIn addition, ECN participates in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the International Energy Agency.\n\nECN received its current name in 1976. Before that time, the centre, which was founded in 1955, was solely focused on the peaceful deployment of nuclear energy under the name of Reactor Centre Netherlands (RCN). In 1976 it became clear that the energy supply of the future should not rely on nuclear energy alone. Alternative forms of energy were called for. RCN was appointed as the institute that should conduct the largest part of this research.\n\nThe Nuclear Research and Consultancy Group (NRG) is a full subsidiary of ECN and the most important manufacturer of radio-active isotopes for medical use in Europe. NRG manages the nuclear reactors in Petten, which are owned by the European Union.\nAdmatec Europe is partially owned by ECN. Admatec Europe manufactures ceramic components via 3D printing.\n\nThe Board of directors of ECN consists of one statutory director (chairman of the board of directors) and two deputy directors. The Supervisory Board consists of six members. It is the duty of the Supervisory Board to supervise the administration of the foundation by the Board of directors as well as the general affairs. The members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the Dutch Minister of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation.\n\nA former director of ECN, Wim Stam, made headlines with his private investment in four windmills. In his role as public servant, Wim Stam also advised the Dutch Government on the placement, quality and efficiency of wind mills.\nWim made over one million Euros with his private investments. As a result of his actions, ECN changed its regulations so conflict of interests would be prevented in the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "934449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=934449", "title": "Energy amplifier", "text": "Energy amplifier\n\nIn nuclear physics, an energy amplifier is a novel type of nuclear power reactor, a \"subcritical reactor\", in which an energetic particle beam is used to stimulate a reaction, which in turn releases enough energy to power the particle accelerator and leave an energy profit for power generation. The concept has more recently been referred to as an accelerator-driven system (ADS) or Accelerator-driven sub-critical reactor.\n\nNone have ever been built.\n\nThe concept is credited to Italian scientist Carlo Rubbia, a Nobel Prize particle physicist and former director of Europe's CERN international nuclear physics lab. He published a proposal for a power reactor based on a proton cyclotron accelerator with a beam energy of 800 MeV to 1 GeV, and a target with thorium as fuel and lead as a coolant. Rubbia's scheme also borrows from ideas developed by a group led by nuclear physicist Charles Bowman of the Los Alamos National Laboratory\n\nThe energy amplifier first uses a particle accelerator (e.g. linac, synchrotron, cyclotron or FFAG) to produce a beam of high-energy (relativistic) protons. The beam is directed to smash into the nucleus of a heavy metal target, such as lead, thorium or uranium. Inelastic collisions between the proton beam and the target results in spallation, which produces twenty to thirty neutrons per event. It might be possible to increase the neutron flux through the use of a neutron amplifier, a thin film of fissile material surrounding the spallation source; the use of neutron amplification in CANDU reactors has been proposed. While CANDU is a critical design, many of the concepts can be applied to a sub-critical system. Thorium nuclei absorb neutrons, thus breeding fissile uranium-233, an isotope of uranium which is not found in nature. Moderated neutrons produce U-233 fission, releasing energy.\n\nThis design is entirely plausible with currently available technology, but requires more study before it can be declared both practical and economical.\n\nOMEGA project () is being studied as one of methodology of accelerator-driven system (ADS) in Japan.\n\nRichard Garwin and Georges Charpak describe the energy amplifier in detail in their book Megawatts and Megatons A Turning Point in the Nuclear Age?\" (2001) on pages 153-163.\n\nEarlier, the general concept of the energy amplifier, namely an Accelerator-driven sub-critical reactor, was covered in\n\"The Second Nuclear Era\" (1985) pages 62–64, by Alvin M. Weinberg and others.\n\nThe concept has several potential advantages over conventional nuclear fission reactors:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14049009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14049009", "title": "Energy in Russia", "text": "Energy in Russia\n\nEnergy in Russia describes energy and electricity production, consumption and export from Russia. Energy policy of Russia describes the energy policy in the politics of Russia more in detail. Electricity sector in Russia is the main article of electricity in Russia.\n\nPrimary energy use in 2009 in Russia was 7,524 TWh and 53 TWh per million persons.\n\nRussia is rich in energy resources. Russia has the largest known natural gas reserves of any state on earth, along with the second largest coal reserves, and the eighth largest oil reserves. This is 32% of world proven natural gas reserves (23% of the probable reserves), 12% of the proven oil reserves, 10% of the explored coal reserves (14% of the estimated reserves) and 8% of the proven uranium reserves.\n\nWith recent acquisitions, Russia has gained assets in the Black Sea that may be worth trillions of dollars.\n\nRussia has identified the gas sector as being of key strategic importance. The share of natural gas as a primary energy source is remarkably high compared to the rest of world. Russia has the world biggest natural gas reserves, mainly owned and operated by the Russian monopoly Gazprom, which produces 94% of Russia's natural gas production. In global context Gazprom holds 25% of the world's known gas reserves and produces 16% of global output. In 2011, Russia was the world's biggest natural gas producer with which accounted 20.0% of global natural gas production. It is also the biggest gas exporter with . The main export markets of Russian natural gas are the European Union and the CIS. Russia supplies a quarter of the EU gas consumption, mainly via transit through Ukraine (Soyuz, Brotherhood) and Belarus (Yamal-Europe pipeline). The main importers are Germany (where links were developed as a result of Germany's \"Ostpolitik\" during the 1970s, and also Ukraine, Belarus, Italy, Turkey, France and Hungary.\n"}
{"id": "32971559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32971559", "title": "Engineering brick", "text": "Engineering brick\n\nEngineering bricks are a type of brick used where strength, low water porosity or acid (flue gas) resistance are needed. Engineering bricks can be used for damp-proof courses.\n\nClay engineering bricks are defined in \"§ 6.4.51\" of \"British Standard BS ISO 6707-1;2014 (buildings & civil engineering works - vocabulary - general terms)\" as \"fire-clay brick that has a dense and strong semi-vitreous body and which conforms to defined limits for water absorption and compressive strength\" \n\nStronger and less porous engineering bricks (UK Class A) are usually blue due to the higher firing temperature whilst class B bricks are usually red. Class A bricks have a strength of 125 N/mm² and water absorption of less than 4.5%; Class B bricks have a strength greater than 75 N/mm² and water absorption of less than 7%.\n\nAccrington brick is a type of engineering brick that was used in the construction of the foundations in the Empire State Building.\n\n"}
{"id": "6337666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6337666", "title": "Environmental issues in Africa", "text": "Environmental issues in Africa\n\nEnvironmental issues in Africa are caused by anthropogenic effects on the African natural environment and have major impacts on humans and nearly all forms of endemic life. Issues include desertification, problems with access to safe water supply, population explosion and fauna depletion. These issues are ultimately linked to over-population in Africa, as well as on a global scale. Nearly all of Africa's environmental problems are geographically variable and human induced, though not necessarily by Africans.\n\nThe large scale falling of trees and the resulting decreases in forest areas are the main environmental issues of the African Continent. Rampant clearing of forests and land conversion goes on for agriculture, settlement and fuel needs. Ninety percent of Africa's population requires wood to use as fuel for heating and cooking. As a result, forested areas are decreasing daily, as for example, in the region of equatorial evergreen forests. \"Africa's desertification rate is twice that of the world's.\"\n\nThe rate of illegal logging, which is another main cause of deforestation, varies from country to country, such as 50% in Cameroon and 80% in Liberia. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, deforestation is primarily caused by the needs of the poor citizens, along with unsupervised logging and mining.\nIn Ethiopia, the main cause is the country's growing population, which induces an increase in agriculture, livestock production, and fuel wood. Low education and little government intervention also contributes to deforestation. Madagascar's forest loss is partially caused by citizens using slash-and-burn techniques after independence from the French.\nNigeria has the highest rate of deforestation of primary forests, according to the gfy. Deforestation in Nigeria is caused by logging, subsistence agriculture, and the collection of wood for fuel. \nAccording to the gfy, deforestation has wiped out nearly 90% of Africa's forest. West Africa only has 22.8% of its moist forests left, and 81% of Nigeria's old-growth forests disappeared within 15 years. Deforestation also lowers the chance of rainfall; Ethiopia has experienced famine and droughts because of this. 98% of Ethiopia's forests have disappeared over the last 50 years.\nWithin 43 years, Kenya's forest coverage decreased from about 10% to 1.7%. Deforestation in Madagascar has also led to desertification, soil loss, and water source degradation, resulting in the country's inability to provide necessary resources for its growing population. In the last five years, Nigeria lost nearly half of its primary forests.\n\nEthiopia's government, along with organizations like Farm Africa, is starting to take steps to stop excessive deforestation.\n\nDeforestation is an issue, and forests are important in Africa, as populations have relied heavily on them to provide basic needs. Woods are used for shelter, clothing, agricultural elements, and much more. Woodland supplies are also used to create medicines and a wide variety of food. Some of these foods include fruits, nuts, honey, and much more. Wood is crucial for economic gain in Africa, especially in developing countries. Forests also help the environment. It is estimated that the green belt of Africa contains over 1.5 million species. Without the forest habitat to protect the species, the populations are at risk. The livelihoods of millions of people and species are at risk with deforestation. The act is a domino effect that affects multiple aspects of a community, ecosystem, and economy.\n\nThe erosion caused by rains, rivers and winds as well as over-utilization of soils for agriculture and low use of manures have resulted in turning the soils infertile, as for example, in the plains of the Nile and the Orange River. A main cause of soil degradation is lack of manufactured fertilizers being used, since African soil lacks organic sources of nutrients. The increase in population has also contributed when people need to crop, as a source of income, but do not take measures to protect the soil, due to low income. The current methods create too much pressure on other environmental aspects, such as forests, and are not sustainable. There are also ecological causes of the poor soil quality. Much of the soil has rocks or clay from volcanic activity. Other causes include erosion, desertification, and deforestation.\n\nDegradation of African soil causes decreased food production, damaging ecological effects, and an overall decrease in the quality of living in Africa. This issue would lessen if fertilizers and other cropping supplies were more affordable and thus used more. The United Nations has commissioned a Global Assessment of Human Induced Soil Degradation (GLASOD) to further investigate the causes and state of the soil. Access to information collected is freely available, and it is hoped that awareness will be raised among politicians in threatened areas.\n\nThe air in Africa is greatly polluted due to multiple reasons stated below. The primitive method of farming that takes place in most areas in Africa is certainly a causal factor. The United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) estimates that 11.3 million hectares of land are being lost annually to agriculture, grazing, uncontrolled burning and fuelwood consumption.\nCombustion of wood and charcoal are used for cooking and this results to a release of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, which is a toxic pollutant in the atmosphere.\nAlso, due to the poor supply of power, most homes have to rely on fuel and diesel in generators to keep their electricity running. \nAir pollution in Africa is coming to the forefront and must not be ignored. For example, in South Africa the mercury levels are severe due to coal combustion and gold mining. Mercury is absorbed from the air into the soil and water. The soil allows the crops to absorb the mercury, which humans ingest. Animals eat the grass which has absorbed the mercury and again humans may ingest these animals. Fish absorb the mercury from the water, humans also ingest the fish and drink the water that have absorbed the mercury. This increases the mercury levels in humans. This can cause serious health risks.\n\nThe World Health Organization reports of the need to intervene when more than one third of the total Disability Adjusted Life Years was lost as a result of exposure to indoor air pollution in Africa. Fuel is needed to power lights at night. The fuel being burned causes great emissions of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Because of the increased Urbanization in Africa, people are burning more and more fuel and using more vehicles for transportation. The rise in vehicle emissions and the trend towards greater industrialization means the urban air quality in the continent is worsening. In many countries, the use of leaded gasoline is still widespread, and vehicle emission controls are nonexistent. Indoor air pollution is widespread, mostly from the burning of coal in the kitchen for cooking. Compounds released from fuel stations and nitrogen and hydrocarbon released from airports cause air pollution. Carbon dioxide other greenhouse gases in the air causes an increase of people with respiratory issues.\n\nThere is a common relationship between air pollution and population. Africa widely diverse between areas that are over populated versus areas that are scarcely populated. In regions where there is little industrial development and few people, air quality is high. Vice versa, in densely populated and industrialized regions the air quality is low. Addressing the air pollution in big cities is often a big priority, even though the continent as a whole produces little air pollutants by international standards. Even so, air pollutants are causing a variety of health and environmental problems. These pollutants are a threat to the population of Africa and the environment they try so hard to sustain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19131052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19131052", "title": "Exfoliated graphite nanoplatelets", "text": "Exfoliated graphite nanoplatelets\n\nExfoliated graphite nano-platelets (xGnP) are new types of nanoparticles made from graphite. These nanoparticles consist of small stacks of graphene that are 1 to 15 nanometers thick, with diameters ranging from sub-micrometre to 100 micrometres. The X-ray diffractogram of this material would resemble that of graphite, in that the 002 peak would still appear at ~26 2 theta. However, the peak would appear considerably smaller and broader. These features indicate that the interplanar distance in exfoliated graphite is similar to that of the parent graphite, but the stack size (of graphene layers) is small. Since xGnP is composed of the same material as carbon nanotubes, it shares many of the electrochemical characteristics, although not the tensile strength. The platelet shape, however, offers xGnP edges that are easier to modify chemically for enhanced dispersion in polymers.\n\nComposite materials made with polymers, like plastics, nylon, or rubber, can be made electrically or thermally conductive with the addition of small amounts of xGnP. These nanoparticles can change the fundamental properties of plastics, enabling them to perform more like metals with metallic properties. These new nanoparticles also improve barrier properties, modulus, and surface toughness when used in composites.\n\nGraphene is extremely electrically conductive material. In turn, xGnP has a percolation threshold for conductivity of 1.9 wt% in thermoplastic matrix. At densities of 2–5 wt%, conductivity reaches sufficient levels to provide electromagnetic shielding. xGnP can also be combined with glass fibers or other matrix materials to provide sufficient conductivity for electrostatic painting or other applications requiring electrical conductivity.\n\nxGnP significantly outperforms most other forms of carbon in terms of thermal conductivity when used at densities of 20 wt% in control resins. At these densities, xGnP also confers significant electrical conductivity as well as improved mechanical properties to most thermoplastic, thermoset, or elastomeric systems. At lesser densities, xGnP adds thermal stability to a variety of matrix materials.\n\nAs opposed to materials like carbon black, xGnP improves mechanical properties of most composites, particularly stiffness and tensile strength. Elastomeric compounds have been shown to experience increased life and reduced surface wear when reinforced with xGnP.\n\nBecause of the platelet shape, xGnP significantly improves the impermeability of composites when used at densities of ~3 wt% or greater. xGnP particles can be aligned using electric field, although alignment is not necessary for use in most extrusion systems. Because xGnP also imparts electrical conductivity at these densities, the resulting composites offer attractive cost savings for applications like fuel lines or fuel tank linings.\n"}
{"id": "2798040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2798040", "title": "Ferrocyanide", "text": "Ferrocyanide\n\nFerrocyanide is the name of the anion [Fe(CN)]. Salts of this coordination complex give yellow solutions. It is usually available as the salt potassium ferrocyanide, which has the formula KFe(CN). [Fe(CN)] is a diamagnetic species, featuring low-spin iron(II) center in an octahedral ligand environment. Although many salts of cyanide are highly toxic, ferro- and ferricyanides are less toxic because they tend not to release free cyanide. It is of commercial interest as a precursor to the pigment Prussian blue and, as its potassium salt, an anticaking agent.\n\nTreatment of ferrocyanide with ferric-containing salts gives the intensely coloured pigment Prussian blue (sometimes called ferric ferrocyanide and ferrous ferricyanide).\n\nFerrocyanide may undergo oxidation, resulting in ferricyanide:\nThis conversion can be followed spectroscopically at 420 nm, since ferrocyanide has negligible absorption while ferricyanide has an extinction coefficient of 1040 M cm.\n\nFerrocyanide and its oxidized product ferricyanide cannot freely pass through the plasma membrane. For this reason ferrocyanide has been used as a probe of extracellular electron receptor in the study of redox reactions in cells. Ferricyanide is used thus any increase in ferrocyanide can be attributed to secretions of reductants or transplasma membrane electron transport activity.\n\nIt has been studied as an electrolyte in flow batteries.\n\nAccording to the recommendations of IUPAC, ferrocyanide should be called \"hexacyanoferrate(II)\". Cyanides as a chemical class were named because they were discovered in ferrocyanide. Ferrocyanide in turn was named in Latin to mean \"blue substance with iron.\" The dye Prussian blue had been first made in the early 18th century. The word \"cyanide\" used in the name is from κύανος \"kyanos\", Greek for \"(dark) blue.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "6042831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6042831", "title": "Green waste", "text": "Green waste\n\nGreen waste, also known as \"biological waste,\" is any organic waste that can be composted. It is most usually composed of refuse from gardens such as grass clippings or leaves, and domestic or industrial kitchen wastes. Green waste does not include things such dried leaves, pine straw, or hay. Such materials are rich in carbon and considered \"brown wastes,\" while green wastes contain high in concentrations of nitrogen. Green waste can be used to increase the efficiency of many composting operations and can be added to soil to sustain local nutrient cycling. \n\nGreen waste can be collected via municipal curbside collection schemes or through private waste management businesses. Many communities, especially in the United Kingdom, have initiated green waste recycling and collection programs in order to decrease the amount of biodegradable materials in landfills . Communities are provided with, or can provide their own, compost receptacles that they fill with plant and food remains, which are then emptied on a regular basis. Programs such as this allow communities to be an active part of composting their green waste which allows them to play an active role in decreasing the amount of food being dumped into local and regional landfills. \nGreen waste can be used to improve the quality and sustainability of industrially manufactured topsoils and the sanitariness and efficiency of sewage disposal.\n\nGreen waste is an integral part of many manufactured topsoils, as it provides both nutrients for growing plants and increases the volume of manufactured topsoils. Its woody components do not decompose quickly, so they provide the bulk that is necessary for supplementary topsoils. Mixing industrial wastes such as fly ash or coal dust with green waste to create artificial topsoil not only facilitates the repurposing of industrial debris and keeps it out of landfills, but it also allows the nutrients in green waste materials to be cycled back into the environment. By utilizing fly ash in conjunction with green waste, manufactured soils are able to increase their water holding capacity while simultaneously recycling refuse materials that might otherwise take up space in a landfill. This allows fly ash and green waste to increase local soil nutrient levels and promotes natural nutrient cycling processes.\n\nGreen waste can also be mixed with sewage wastes and composted, providing a safe, environmentally sustainable option for sewage disposal. Co-composting green and sewage wastes eliminates the risk that pathogens and pollutants contained in sewage wastes might pose to the environment. Utilization of green waste to dispose of sewage wastes not only decreases the amount of sewage incinerated and dumped each year, it also facilitates the cycling of organic wastes back into the environment. The co-composted remains of these organic wastes can be safely employed for use in agriculture. This process decreases the amount of trash being dumped into landfills and other trash repositories and allows for the complete cycling of organic nutrients through the environment.\n\nBiogas captured from biodegradable green waste can be used as biofuel. Green waste can be composed of non-food crops, which decompose to produce cellulosic ethanol. It can also help reduce the necessity of petroleum gases, which produce large amounts of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide, when burned.\n\nGreen waste composting has also been linked to suppression of soil borne diseases such as damping off and root rots that affect large agricultural ventures like greenhouses and large-scale farms. This disease suppressive quality has positive implications for lesser-developed nations that do not have the technology or resources to purchase expensive fertilizers.\n\nAddition of composts which contain residues and particles of heavy metals to soil can raise the soil's heavy metal content and increase the probability of these metals to transfer into crop plants. When biological, or green waste is added to these soil samples, plant uptake of heavy metal has been shown to decrease crop uptake of metals compared to other types of compost composed of things such as sewage sludge. This can protect consumers and the environment from biomagnification caused by long-term accumulation of heavy metal particles within the soil and plant life of an area.\n\n"}
{"id": "38784238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38784238", "title": "Heavy liquid", "text": "Heavy liquid\n\nA heavy liquid is a solution or liquid chemical substance with a high density and a relatively low viscosity. Heavy liquids are often used for determination of density in mineralogy, for density gradient centrifugation and for separating mixtures.\n\nCommon applications of heavy liquids include:\n\nThe classical heavy liquids like 1,1,2,2-tetrabromoethane (\"Muthmanns solution\"), potassium tetraiodomercurate(II) (\"Thoulets solution\"), bromoform or diiodomethane which are used in mineralogy are very toxic. These toxic chemicals are avoided today in consideration of the fact that there are alternative water based, non-toxic heavy liquids like sodium polytungstate solutions. With this relatively new heavy liquid densities up to 3.1 g·cm can be adjusted . Adding parts of pulverulent Tungsten carbide increases the density to 4.6 g·cm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31541804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31541804", "title": "ICME cyberinfrastructure", "text": "ICME cyberinfrastructure\n\nIntegrated computational materials engineering (ICME) involves the integration of experimental results, design models, simulations, and other computational data related to a variety of materials used in multiscale engineering and design. Central to the achievement of ICME goals has been the creation of a cyberinfrastructure, a Web-based, collaborative platform which provides the ability to accumulate, organize and disseminate knowledge pertaining to materials science and engineering to facilitate this information being broadly utilized, enhanced, and expanded.\n\nThe ICME cyberinfrastructure provides storage, access, and computational capabilities for an extensive network of manufacturing, design, and life-cycle simulation software. Within this software framework, data is archived, searchable and interactive, offering engineers and scientists a vast database of materials-related information for use in research, multiscale modeling, simulation implementation, and an array of other activities in support of more efficient, less costly product development. Furthermore, the ICME cyberinfrastructure is expected to provide the capability to access and link application codes, including the development of protocols necessary to integrate hierarchical modeling approaches. With an emphasis on computational efficiency, experimental validation of models, and protecting intellectual property, the cyberinfrastructure assimilates 1) process-microstructure-property relations, 2) development of constitutive materials models that accurately predict multiscale material behaviors admitting microstructure/inclusions and history effects, 3) access to shared databases of analytical and experimental data, and 4) material models. As such, it is also crucial to identifying gaps in materials knowledge, which, in turn, guides the development of new materials theories, models, and simulation tools. Such a community-based knowledge foundation ultimately enables materials informatics systems that fuse high fidelity experimental databases with models of physical processes.\n\nIn addition, the vision of the ICME cyberinfrastructure is compatible with the National Science Foundation's (NSF) \"Cyberinfrastructure Vision for 21st Century Discovery\", which advocates development and deployment of human-centered information technology (IT) systems that address the needs of science and engineering communities and open new opportunities for enhancing education and workforce development programs. According to the NSF directive, IT systems, such as the ICME cyberinfrastructure, should provide access to tools, services, and other networked resources, including high-performance computing facilities, data repositories, and libraries of computational tools, enabling and reliably supporting secure and efficient nationwide or global virtual organizations spanning across administrative boundaries.\n\nThe National Materials Advisory Board (NMAB) of the National Academy of Engineering (NAE) committee proposed the following definition for the term ICME cyberinfrastructure:\n\n\"The Internet-based collaborative materials science and engineering research and development environments that support advanced data acquisition, data and model storage, data and model management, data and model mining, data and model visualization, and other computing and information processing services required to develop an integrated computational materials engineering capability.\"\n\nAccording to NMAB's vision, the building blocks of the ICME cyberinfrastructure are the individual web sites (Web Portals) which offer access to information, data, and tools, each established for specific purposes by different organizations. Linked together, these \"constituent\" Web Portals will form the ICME cyberinfrastructure, or ICME \"Supply-Chain,\" i.e., a series of well-established, capable and viable organizations. These organizations are to provide necessary portions of the ICME cyberinfrastructure's value chain:\n\nFor example, Mississippi State University has created an ICME cyberinfrastructure where different models, codes, and experimental structure-property data are available and discussed. Researchers are encouraged to upload their own models, codes, and experimental data with associated references for others to use.\n\n"}
{"id": "5550798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5550798", "title": "IOE engine", "text": "IOE engine\n\nThe intake/inlet over exhaust, or \"IOE\" engine, known in the US as F-head, is a four-stroke internal combustion engine whose valvetrain comprises OHV inlet valves within the cylinder head and exhaust side-valves within the engine block.\n\nIOE engines were widely used in early motorcycles, initially with the inlet valve being operated by engine suction instead of a cam-activated valvetrain. When the suction-operated inlet valves reached their limits as engine speeds increased, the manufacturers modified the designs by adding a mechanical valvetrain for the inlet valve. A few automobile manufacturers, including Willys, Rolls-Royce and Humber also made IOE engines for both cars and military vehicles. Rover manufactured line four and six cylinder engines with a particularly efficient version of the IOE induction system.\n\nA few designs with the reverse system, exhaust over inlet (EOI), have been manufactured, such as the Ford Quadricycle of 1896.\n\nIn a F-head/IOE engine, the intake manifold and its valves are located in the cylinder head above the cylinders, and are operated by rocker arms which reverse the motion of the pushrods so that the intake valves open downward into the combustion chamber. The exhaust manifold and its valves are located beside or as part of the cylinders, in the block. The exhaust valves are either roughly or exactly parallel with the pistons; their faces point upwards and they are not operated by separate pushrods, but by contact with a camshaft through the tappet or valve lifter and an integrated valve stem/pushrod. The valves were offset to one side, forming what seemed to be a pocket, leading to the term \"pocket valve\" being used for IOE engines. An F-head engine combines features from both overhead-valve and flathead type engines, the inlet valve operating via pushrod and rocker arm and opening downward like an overhead valve engine, while the exhaust valve is offset from the cylinder and opens upward via an integrated pushrod/valve stem directly actuated by the camshaft, much like the valves in a flathead engine.\n\nThe earliest IOE layouts used atmospheric inlet valves which were held closed with a weak spring and were opened by the pressure differential created when the piston went down on the inlet stroke. This worked well with low-speed early engines and had the benefit of being very simple and cheap, but the weak spring was unable to close the valve fast enough as the RPM's of engines increased, necessitating stronger springs, which in turn needed direct mechanical action to open, as the atmospheric pressure of 15psi limits the total force available from creating a pressure differential, meaning that a 15-lb spring is the strongest that can be used (for practical purposes, it would have to be lighter still). When the limits of this system were reached, the design was improved without substantial changes to the head casting by adding a mechanical system to open the inlet valves and stronger springs to close them. In both cases, the exhaust valves were in the block and were opened by contact with a camshaft through a tappet or valve lifter and closed by springs.\n\nThe IOE design allows the use of larger valves than a sidevalve (or L-head) or overhead valve engine. Its advantages over the sidevalve/flathead also include a compact combustion chamber, a well-located spark plug, and a cooling effect from the mixture swirl, along with better intake mixture flow.. Disadvantages include a combustion chamber of more complex shape than that of an overhead valve engine, which affects combustion rates and can create hot spots in the piston head, and inferior valve location, which hinders efficient scavenging. Due to the added complications of rocker arms and pushrods, it is also more complex and expensive to make than a sidevalve engine, as well as being physically larger due to the rocker arms being placed over the cylinder head, and it requires an inlet valve and ports in the cylinder head, while the cylinder of a sidevalve engine is simply a closed-end cylinder.\n\nRover used a more advanced form of IOE engine. It was designed by Jack Swain in the mid-late 1940s and was in production from 1948 to the early 1990s. Unlike the conventional F-head IOE, this had an efficient combustion chamber designed for good combustion, rather than simple manufacture. The top surface of the block was machined at an angle, with the piston crowns angled in a \"pitched roof\" to match. At TDC, the piston almost touched the angled inlet valve and provided good 'squish' to the combustion chamber itself, offset to the side by half a cylinder diameter. The resultant combustion chamber shape was a near-ideal hemisphere, although inverted and tilted from the usual \"hemi-head\" design. The spark plug was centrally mounted and this, together with the turbulence generated by the squish, provided a short flame path. The thinness of the gas layer between piston and inlet valve was so confined as to reduce the risk of detonation on poor fuel, one factor that kept it in service with Land Rover for so long. During the late 1940s and early 1950s when the only petrol available was low octane 'pool' petrol it also allowed Rover to run higher compression ratios than many competitors with the more usual side- or overhead valve designs.\n\nThe unusual combustion chamber arrangement with its angled valves also led to an unusual valve train. The block-mounted camshaft operates small wedge shaped rockers, one for each valve. In early models the camshaft acts on a simple pad on the rocker, but for later models this pad was replaced by a roller follower. The exhaust rockers act directly on the valves, whilst the inlet rockers act on pushrods running up to a second set of longer flat rockers operating the inlet valves. The Rover engine, like many 1940s and earlier British designs, was a small bore, long stroke (undersquare) engine to keep the RAC tax horsepower rating as low as possible, thus keeping the road tax as low as possible. The IOE layout enabled Rover to use larger valves than would normally be possible in a small bore engine, allowing better breathing and better performance.\n\nThe Rover IOE engine family encompassed straight-4 (1.6- and 2.0-litres) and straight-6 (2.1-, 2.2-, 2.3-, 2.4-, 2.6- and 3.0-litres) engines and powered much of the company's post-war range in the form of the P3, P4 and P5 models. Adapted versions of the 1.6 and 2.0 IOE engines were used in early version of the Land Rover as well. Power outputs ranged from 50bhp (Land Rover 1.6) to 134bhp (P5 3 litre MkII & III). The 2.6 6-cylinder IOE engine had a particularly long career. After being used in Rover P4 saloon cars it was added to long-wheelbase Land Rover models from 1963 in the 2A Forward Control models, then in 1967 in the bonneted 109\", and remained an optional fitment until 1980 when it was replaced by the Rover V8.\n\nThe shape of the combustion chamber as an \"inverted hemi-head\", along with the angled cylinder head joint and pitched-roof piston crowns, had earlier been used in the 1930 Van Ranst-designed Packard V12 engine, although in this case the valves were both in the block as side valves and the spark plug was poorly placed at the extremity of the combustion chamber.\n\nThe IOE valvetrain layout was used extensively in early American motorcycles, mainly based on a French design by De Dion-Bouton. Harley-Davidson used IOE engines with atmospheric inlet valves until 1912, and with mechanically driven inlet valves from 1911 to 1929. Indian used IOE valvetrains on all of their four-cylinder bikes except those built in 1936 and 1937. Other American motorcycle manufacturers that used IOE engines included Excelsior, Henderson, and Ace.\n\nHudson used an IOE inline-four engine in its Essex line of cars from 1919 to 1923 and an IOE straight-six engine in its Hudson line of cars from 1927 to 1929. \n\nIn Europe in the same period Humber Limited of Coventry, England produced a full range of cars using IOE engines, these were however phased out at the end of the 1920s in favour of models using cheaper L head engines shared with Hillman \n\nPost WW2 Willys, and its successor Kaiser-Jeep, used variants of the Willys Hurricane engine from 1950 to 1971.\n\nRolls-Royce used an IOE straight-six engine originally designed immediately prior to WW2 in their post-war Silver Wraith. From this engine Rolls-Royce derived the B series engines for British Army combat vehicles which were produced in four, six and eight cylinder versions(the B40, B60 and B80) by Rolls-Royce (and in the case of the B40 used in the Austin Champ by Morris Motors)for military vehicles, fire appliances and even buses. A more advanced shorter stroke passenger car development the FB60 engine, a straight-six IOE engine displacing 3909cc and producing a claimed 175 , was used by BMC in the Vanden Plas Princess 4-litre R saloon car. Over 6000 of these cars were made.\n\nSome engines have been made with the reverse configuration, having the exhaust valve in the cylinder head and the intake valve in the block. The ABC Skootamota began production with an engine of this configuration, but this was changed to an overhead valve engine before production ended.\n\nIn 1936 and 1937, the Indian Four had the valve positions reversed, with the exhaust valve in the head and the inlet valve in the block. In theory, this would improve fuel vaporization, and the engine was actually more powerful. However, the new system made the cylinder head very hot. The exhaust valve linkage required frequent adjustment. The design was returned to the original IOE configuration in 1938.\n\n"}
{"id": "39367099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39367099", "title": "Ideonella", "text": "Ideonella\n\nIdeonella is a genus of Comamonadaceae bacteria.\n\nIn 2016 \"I. sakaiensis\" was shown to degrade PET, a polymer widely used in food containers, bottles and synthetic fibers. Adhered to a low-grade PET film, the bacteria used two novel enzymes to decompose the plastic into two environmentally benign substances, which served as their main food source.\n\nA colony of \"I. sakaiensis\" could completely degrade a low-grade plastic water bottle in six weeks. Higher-grade PET products would require heating and cooling to weaken it before bacteria could start eating.\n\nThe bacteria could also be used to reduce industrial waste during plastics manufacturing.\n"}
{"id": "3591456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3591456", "title": "Interface (matter)", "text": "Interface (matter)\n\nIn the physical sciences, an interface is the boundary between two spatial regions occupied by different matter, or by matter in different physical states. The interface between matter and air, or matter and vacuum, is called a surface, and studied in surface science. In thermal equilibrium, the regions in contact are called phases, and the interface is called a phase boundary. An example for an interface out of equilibrium is the grain boundary in polycrystalline matter.\n\nThe importance of the interface depends on the type of system: the bigger the quotient area/volume, the greater the effect the interface will have. Consequently, interfaces are very important in systems with large interface area-to-volume ratios, such as colloids.\n\nInterfaces can be flat or curved. For example, oil droplets in a salad dressing are spherical but the interface between water and air in a glass of water is mostly flat.\n\nSurface tension is the physical property which rules interface processes involving liquids. For a liquid film on flat surfaces, the liquid-vapor interface keeps flat to minimize interfacial area and system free energy. For a liquid film on rough surfaces, the surface tension tends to keep the meniscus flat, while the disjoining pressure makes the film conformal to the substrate. The equilibrium meniscus shape is a result of the competition between the capillary pressure and disjoining pressure.\n\nInterfaces may cause various optical phenomena, such as refraction. Optical lenses serve as an example of a practical application of the interface between glass and air.\n\nOne topical interface system is the gas-liquid interface between aerosols and other atmospheric molecules.\n\n"}
{"id": "336175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=336175", "title": "Jute", "text": "Jute\n\nJute is a long, soft, shiny vegetable fiber that can be spun into coarse, strong threads. It is produced primarily from plants in the genus \"Corchorus\", which was once classified with the family Tiliaceae, and more recently with Malvaceae. The primary source of the fiber is \"Corchorus olitorius\", but it is considered inferior to \"Corchorus capsularis\". \"Jute\" is the name of the plant or fiber that is used to make burlap, hessian or gunny cloth.\n\nJute is one of the most affordable natural fibers in existence and it is second only to cotton in amount produced and variety of uses. Jute fibers are composed primarily of the plant materials cellulose and lignin. It falls into the bast fiber category (fiber collected from bast, the phloem of the plant, sometimes called the \"skin\") along with kenaf, industrial hemp, flax (linen), ramie, etc. The industrial term for jute fiber is \"raw jute\". The fibers are off-white to brown, and 1–4 metres (3–13 feet) long. Jute is also called the \"golden fiber\" for its color and high cash value.\n\nJute plant needs a plain alluvial soil and standing water. The suitable climate for growing jute (warm and wet) is offered by the monsoon climate, during the monsoon season. Temperatures from 20˚C to 40˚C and relative humidity of 70%–80% are favourable for successful cultivation. Jute requires 5–8 cm of rainfall weekly, and more during the sowing time. Soft water is necessary for the jute production.\n\nHistorical documents (including \"Ain-e-Akbari\" by Abul Fazal in 1590) state that the poor villagers of India used to wear clothes made of jute. Simple handlooms and hand spinning wheels were used by the weavers, who used to spin cotton yarns as well. History also suggests that Indians, especially Bengalis, used ropes and twines made of white jute from ancient times for household and other uses. It is highly functional in carrying grains or other agricultural products.\n\nTossa jute (\"Corchorus olitorius\") is a variety thought to be native to South Asia. It is grown for both fiber and culinary purposes. The leaves are used as an ingredient in a mucilaginous potherb called \"molokhiya\" (ملوخية, of uncertain etymology). It is very popular in some Arabian countries such as Egypt, Jordan, and Syria as a soup-based dish, sometimes with meat over rice or lentils. The Book of Job (chapter 30, verse 4), in the King James translation of the Hebrew Bible מלוח \"MaLOo-aĤ\" \"salty\", mentions this vegetable potherb as \"mallow, giving rise to the term Jew's Mallow. It is high in protein, vitamin C, beta-carotene, calcium, and iron.\n\nOn the other hand, it is used mainly for its fiber in Bangladesh, in other countries in Southeast Asia, and the South Pacific. Tossa jute fiber is softer, silkier, and stronger than white jute. This variety astonishingly shows good sustainability in the climate of the Ganges Delta. Along with white jute, tossa jute has also been cultivated in the soil of Bengal where it is known as \"paat\" from the start of the 19th century. Coremantel, Bangladesh, is the largest global producer of the tossa jute variety.\n\nFor centuries, jute has been an integral part of the culture of East Bengal and some parts of West Bengal, precisely in the southwest of Bangladesh. Since the seventeenth century the British started trading in jute. During the reign of the British Empire, jute was also used in the military. British jute barons grew rich processing jute and selling manufactured products made from jute. Dundee Jute Barons and the British East India Company set up many jute mills in Bengal and by 1895 jute industries in Bengal overtook the Scottish jute trade. Many Scots emigrated to Bengal to set up jute factories. More than a billion jute sandbags were exported from Bengal to the trenches during World War I and also exported to the United States southern region to bag cotton. It was used in the fishing, construction, art and the arms industry. Initially, due to its texture, it could only be processed by hand until it was discovered in Dundee that by treating it with whale oil, it could be treated by machine. The industry boomed throughout the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries (\"jute weaver\" was a recognised trade occupation in the 1900 UK census), but this trade had largely ceased by about 1970 due to the emergence of synthetic fibers. In the 21st century, jute again rose to be an important crop for export around the world in contrast to synthetic fiber, mainly from Bangladesh.\n\nThe jute fiber comes from the stem and ribbon (outer skin) of the jute plant. The fibers are first extracted by retting. The retting process consists of bundling jute stems together and immersing them in slow running water. There are two types of retting: stem and ribbon. After the retting process, stripping begins; women and children usually do this job. In the stripping process, non-fibrous matter is scraped off, then the workers dig in and grab the fibers from within the jute stem.\n\nJute is a rain-fed crop with little need for fertilizer or pesticides, in contrast to cotton's heavy requirements. Production is concentrated mostly in Bangladesh, as well as India's states of Assam, Bihar, and West Bengal. India is the world's largest producer of jute, but imported approximately 162,000 tonnes of raw fiber and 175,000 tonnes of jute products in 2011. India, Pakistan, and China import significant quantities of jute fiber and products from Bangladesh, as do the United Kingdom, Japan, United States, France, Spain, Ivory Coast, Germany and Brazil.\n\nAt the beginning of the 21st century, in 2002 Bangladesh commissioned a consortium of researchers from University of Dhaka, Bangladesh Jute Research Institute (BJRI) and private software firm DataSoft Systems Bangladesh Ltd., in collaboration with Centre for Chemical Biology, University of Science Malaysia and University of Hawaii, to research different fibers and hybrid fibers of jute. The draft genome of jute (\"Corchorus olitorius\") was completed.\n\nMaking twine, rope, and matting are among its uses.\n\nIn combination with sugar, the possibility of using jute to build aeroplane panels has been considered.\nJute is in great demand due to its cheapness, softness, length, lustre and uniformity of its fiber. It is called the 'brown paper bag' as it is also used to store rice, wheat, grains, etc. It is also called the 'golden fiber' due to its versatile nature.\n\nJute matting is used to prevent flood erosion while natural vegetation becomes established. For this purpose, a natural and biodegradable fiber is essential.\n\nJute is the second most important vegetable fiber after cotton due to its versatility. Jute is used chiefly to make cloth for wrapping bales of raw cotton, and to make sacks and coarse cloth. The fibers are also woven into curtains, chair coverings, carpets, area rugs, hessian cloth, and backing for linoleum.\n\nWhile jute is being replaced by synthetic materials in many of these uses, some uses take advantage of jute's biodegradable nature, where synthetics would be unsuitable. Examples of such uses include containers for planting young trees, which can be planted directly with the container without disturbing the roots, and land restoration where jute cloth prevents erosion occurring while natural vegetation becomes established.\n\nThe fibers are used alone or blended with other types of fiber to make twine and rope. Jute butts, the coarse ends of the plants, are used to make inexpensive cloth. Conversely, very fine threads of jute can be separated out and made into \"imitation silk\". As jute fibers are also being used to make pulp and paper, and with increasing concern over forest destruction for the wood pulp used to make most paper, the importance of jute for this purpose may increase. Jute has a long history of use in the sackings, carpets, wrapping fabrics (cotton bale), and construction fabric manufacturing industry.\n\nJute was used in traditional textile machinery as fibers having cellulose (vegetable fiber content) and lignin (wood fiber content). But, the major breakthrough came when the automobile, pulp and paper, and the furniture and bedding industries started to use jute and its allied fibers with their non-woven and composite technology to manufacture nonwovens, technical textiles, and composites. Therefore, jute has changed its textile fiber outlook and steadily heading towards its newer identity, i.e., wood fiber. As a textile fiber, jute has reached its peak from where there is no hope of progress, but as a wood fiber jute has many promising features.\n\nJute is used in the manufacture of a number of fabrics, such as Hessian cloth, sacking, scrim, carpet backing cloth (CBC), and canvas. Hessian, lighter than sacking, is used for bags, wrappers, wall-coverings, upholstery, and home furnishings. Sacking, a fabric made of heavy jute fibers, has its use in the name. CBC made of jute comes in two types. Primary CBC provides a tufting surface, while secondary CBC is bonded onto the primary backing for an overlay. Jute packaging is used as an eco-friendly substitute.\n\nDiversified jute products are becoming more and more valuable to the consumer today. Among these are espadrilles, soft sweaters and cardigans, floor coverings, home textiles, high performance technical textiles, geotextiles, composites, and more.\n\nJute floor coverings consist of woven and tufted and piled carpets. Jute mats and mattings with 5/6 mts width and of continuous length are easily being woven in southern parts of India, in solid and fancy shades, and in different weaves, like bouclé, Panama, herringbone, etc. Jute mats and rugs are made both by powerloom and habdloom in large volume in Kerala, India. The traditional Satranji mat is becoming very popular in home décor. Jute non-wovens and composites can be used for underlay, linoleum substrate, and more.\n\nJute has many advantages as a home textile, either replacing cotton or blending with it. It is a strong, durable, color and light-fast fiber. Its UV protection, sound and heat insulation, low thermal conduction and anti-static properties make it a wise choice in home décor. Also, fabrics made of jute fibers are carbon-dioxide neutral and naturally decomposable. These properties are also why jute can be used in high performance technical textiles.\n\nMoreover, jute can be grown in 4–6 months with a huge amount of cellulose being produced from the jute hurd (inner woody core or parenchyma of the jute stem) that can meet most of the wood needs of the world. Jute is the major crop among others that is able to protect deforestation by industrialisation.\n\nThus, jute is the most environment-friendly fiber starting from the seed to expired fiber, as the expired fibers can be recycled more than once.\n\nJute is also used to make ghillie suits, which are used as camouflage and resemble grasses or brush.\n\nAnother diversified jute product is geotextiles, which made this agricultural commodity more popular in the agricultural sector. It is a lightly woven fabric made from natural fibers that is used for soil erosion control, seed protection, weed control, and many other agricultural and landscaping uses. The geotextiles can be used more than a year and the bio-degradable jute geotextile left to rot on the ground keeps the ground cool and is able to make the land more fertile.\n\nIn Nigeria, leaves of \"Corchorus olitorius\" are prepared in sticky soup called \"ewedu\" together with ingredients such as sweet potato, dried small fish or shrimp. The leaves are rubbed until foamy or sticky before adding to the soup. Amongst the Yoruba of Nigeria, the leaves are called \"Ewedu\", and in the Hausa-speaking northern Nigeria, the leaves are called \"turgunuwa\" or \"lallo\". The jute leaves are cut into shreds and added to the soup which would normally contain other ingredients such as meat and/or fish, pepper, onions, and other spices. Likewise, the Lugbara of Northwestern Uganda eat the leaves as soup, locally called \"pala bi\". Jute is also a totem for Ayivu, one of the Lugbara clans.\n\nIn the Philippines, especially in Ilocano-dominated areas, this vegetable, locally known as \"saluyot\", can be mixed with either bitter gourd, bamboo shoots, loofah, or sometimes all of them. These have a slimy and slippery texture.\n\nSimilarly, the leaves are used in Cypriot cuisine as an ingredient for stews. It is known locally as molohiya. It is typically cooked with lamb or chicken.\n\nSonali Bag is biodegradable and eco-friendly poly bag that made from Jute and invented by Bangladeshi scientist Dr. Mubarak Ahmad Khan. The bag named Sonali bag (English: Golden Bag). It is producing experimantaly on Latif Bawani Jute Mill Bangladesh. After a research of 20 years Dr. Mubarak Ahmad Khan invented it. It is recyclable, biodegradable and eco friendly than regular polythene.\n\nDiversified byproducts from jute can be used in cosmetics, medicine, paints, and other products.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6581635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6581635", "title": "LNG pier", "text": "LNG pier\n\nA LNG (liquefied natural gas) pier is a specialized kind of working pier designed for the loading and offloading of liquefied natural gas from ships to shore based tanks. \n\nA typical LNG pier could accommodate LNG carriers from 138,000 cubic metres to 200,000 cubic metres in capacity. The pier would have at least one liquid unloading line using cryogenic transfer pumps to transfer the LNG to the LNG storage tanks on shore.\n\nSome of these piers are very long, up to , in order to not have to dredge and blast underwater, in order to reach to the depth needed to accommodate LNG tanker traffic.\n"}
{"id": "1933104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933104", "title": "Let It Be (2004 film)", "text": "Let It Be (2004 film)\n\nBô-bí-lo̍k (literally 'happiness without rice' in Taiwanese; English title: Let It Be; Chinese: 無米樂; Simplified Chinese: 无米乐; Pinyin: Wu Mi Le) is a documentary film produced in Taiwan in 2004.\n\nThis documentary records the lives of several old farmers (peasants) in Chheⁿ-liâu Village, Āu-piah (i.e., Houbi Township), Tainan County (now part of Tainan City). It generated discussion and debate in the Taiwanese civil society about the impact on agriculture due to its membership in the World Trade Organization.\n\nThe documentary garnered a number of awards, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "47668926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47668926", "title": "Liquid-liquid critical point", "text": "Liquid-liquid critical point\n\nA liquid-liquid critical point (or LLCP) is the endpoint of a liquid-liquid phase transition line (LLPT); it is a critical point where two types of local structures coexist at the exact ratio of unity. This hypothesis was first developed by H. Eugene Stanley to obtain a quantitative understanding of the huge number of anomalies present in water.\n\nNear a liquid-liquid critical point, there is always a mixture of two alternative local structures. For instance, in supercooled water, two types of local structures exist, a low-density liquid (LDL) and a high-density liquid (HDL), so above the critical pressure, a higher percentage of HDL exists while below the critical pressure a higher percentage of LDL is present. The ratio \"r\" = LDL/(LDL + HDL) of phase amounts is determined according to the thermodynamic equilibrium of the system, which is often governed by external variables such as pressure and temperature. A discontinuity is present in \"r\" when crossing the liquid-liquid phase transition, which separates the LDL-rich phase from the LDL-poor phase. At any point of the liquid-liquid phase transition, including the associated liquid-liquid critical point, the ratio of LDL to HDL is exactly one (\"r\" = ½).\n\nThe liquid-liquid critical point theory can be applied to all liquids that possess the tetrahedral symmetry. The study of liquid-liquid critical points is an active research area with hundreds of papers having been published, though only a few of these investigations have been experimental since most modern probing techniques are not fast and/or sensitive enough to study them.\n"}
{"id": "13744357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13744357", "title": "Low-energy ion scattering", "text": "Low-energy ion scattering\n\nLow-energy ion scattering spectroscopy (LEIS), sometimes referred to simply as ion scattering spectroscopy (ISS), is a surface-sensitive analytical technique used to characterize the chemical and structural makeup of materials. LEIS involves directing a stream of charged particles known as ions at a surface and making observations of the positions, velocities, and energies of the ions that have interacted with the surface. Data that is thus collected can be used to deduce information about the material such as the relative positions of atoms in a surface lattice and the elemental identity of those atoms. LEIS is closely related to both medium-energy ion scattering (MEIS) and high-energy ion scattering (HEIS, known in practice as Rutherford backscattering spectroscopy, or RBS), differing primarily in the energy range of the ion beam used to probe the surface. While much of the information collected using LEIS can be obtained using other surface science techniques, LEIS is unique in its sensitivity to both structure and composition of surfaces. Additionally, LEIS is one of a very few surface-sensitive techniques capable of directly observing hydrogen atoms, an aspect that may make it an increasingly more important technique as the hydrogen economy is being explored.\n\nLEIS systems consist of the following:\n\nSeveral different types of events may take place as a result of the ion beam impinging on a target surface. Some of these events include electron or photon emission, electron transfer (both ion-surface and surface-ion), scattering, adsorption, and sputtering (i.e. ejection of atoms from the surface). For each system and each interaction there exists an interaction cross-section, and the study of these cross-sections is a field in its own right. As the name suggests, LEIS is primarily concerned with scattering phenomena.\n\nDue to the energy range typically used in ion scattering experiments (> 500 eV), effects of thermal vibrations, phonon oscillations, and interatomic binding are ignored since they are far below this range (~a few eV), and the interaction of particle and surface may be thought of as a classical two-body elastic collision problem. Measuring the energy of ions scattered in this type of interaction can be used to determine the elemental composition of a surface, as is shown in the following:\nTwo-body elastic collisions are governed by the concepts of energy and momentum conservation. Consider a particle with mass m, velocity v, and energy given as formula_1 impacting another particle at rest with mass m. The energies of the particles after collision are formula_2 and formula_3 where formula_4 and thus formula_5. Additionally, we knowformula_6. Using trigonometry we are able to determine\n\nSimilarly, we know\n\nIn a well-controlled experiment the energy and mass of the primary ions (E and m, respectively) and the scattering or recoiling geometries are all known, so determination of surface elemental composition is given by the correlation between E or E and m. Higher energy scattering peaks correspond to heavier atoms and lower energy peaks correspond to lighter atoms.\n\nWhile obtaining qualitative information about the elemental composition of a surface is relatively straightforward, it is necessary to understand the statistical cross-section of interaction between ion and surface atoms in order to obtain quantitative information. Stated another way, it is easy to find out if a particular species is present, but much more difficult to determine how much of this species is there.\n\nThe two-body collision model fails to give quantitative results as it ignores the contributions of coulomb repulsion as well as the more complicated effects of charge screening by electrons. This is generally less of a problem in MEIS and RBS experiments but presents issues in LEIS. Coulomb repulsion occurs between positively charged primary ions and the nuclei of surface atoms. The interaction potential is given as:\n\nWhere formula_7 and formula_8 are the atomic numbers of the primary ion and surface atom, respectively, formula_9 is the elementary charge, formula_10 is the interatomic distance, and formula_11 is the screening function. formula_11 accounts for the interference of the electrons orbiting each nucleus. In the case of MEIS and RBS, this potential can be used to calculate the Rutherford scattering cross section (see Rutherford scattering) formula_13:\n\nAs shown at right, formula_14 represents a finite region for an incoming particle, while formula_15 represents the solid scattering angle after the scattering event. However, for LEIS formula_16 is typically unknown which prevents such a clean analysis. Additionally, when using noble gas ion beams there is a high probability of neutralization on impact (which has strong angular dependence) due to the strong desire of these ions to be in a neutral, closed shell state. This results in poor secondary ion flux. See AISS and TOF-SARS below for approaches to avoiding this problem.\n\nShadowing and blocking are important concepts in almost all types of ion-surface interactions and result from the repulsive nature of the ion-nucleus interaction. As shown at right, when a flux of ions flows in parallel towards a scattering center (nucleus), they are each scattered according to the force of the Coulomb repulsion. This effect is known as shadowing. In a simple Coulomb repulsion model, the resulting region of “forbidden” space behind the scattering center takes the form of a paraboloid with radius formula_17 at a distance L from the scattering center. The flux density is increased near the edge of the paraboloid.\n\nBlocking is closely related to shadowing, and involves the interaction between scattered ions and a neighboring scattering center (as such it inherently requires the presence of at least two scattering centers). As shown, ions scattered from the first nucleus are now on diverging paths as they undergo interaction with the second nucleus. This interaction results in another “shadowing cone” now called a blocking cone where ions scattered from the first nucleus are blocked from exiting at angles below formula_18. Focusing effects again result in an increased flux density near formula_18.\n\nIn both shadowing and blocking, the \"forbidden\" regions are actually accessible to trajectories when the mass of incoming ions is greater than that of the surface atoms (e.g. Ar impacting Si or Al). In this case the region will have a finite but depleted flux density.\n\nFor higher energy ions such as those used in MEIS and RBS the concepts of shadowing and blocking are relatively straightforward since ion-nucleus interactions dominate and electron screening effects are insignificant. However, in the case of LEIS these screening effects do interfere with ion-nucleus interactions and the repulsive potential becomes more complicated. Also, multiple scattering events are very likely which complicates analysis. Importantly, due to the lower energy ions used LEIS is typically characterized by large interaction cross-sections and shadow cone radii. For this reason penetration depth is low and the method has much higher first-layer sensitivity than MEIS or RBS. Overall, these concepts are essential for data analysis in impact collision LEIS experiments (see below).\n\nThe de Broglie wavelength of ions used in LEIS experiments is given as formula_20. Using a worst-case value of 500 eV for an He ion, we see λ is still only 0.006 Å, still well below the typical interatomic spacing of 2-3 Å. Because of this, the effects of diffraction are not significant in a normal LEIS experiment.\n\nDepending on the particular experimental setup, LEIS may be used to obtain a variety of information about a sample. The following includes several of these methods.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18909", "title": "Magnesium", "text": "Magnesium\n\nMagnesium is a chemical element with symbol Mg and atomic number 12. It is a shiny gray solid which bears a close physical resemblance to the other five elements in the second column (group 2, or alkaline earth metals) of the periodic table: all group 2 elements have the same electron configuration in the outer electron shell and a similar crystal structure.\n\nMagnesium is the ninth most abundant element in the universe. It is produced in large, aging stars from the sequential addition of three helium nuclei to a carbon nucleus. When such stars explode as supernovas, much of the magnesium is expelled into the interstellar medium where it may recycle into new star systems. Magnesium is the eighth most abundant element in the Earth's crust and the fourth most common element in the Earth (after iron, oxygen and silicon), making up 13% of the planet's mass and a large fraction of the planet's mantle. It is the third most abundant element dissolved in seawater, after sodium and chlorine.\n\nMagnesium occurs naturally only in combination with other elements, where it invariably has a +2 oxidation state. The free element (metal) can be produced artificially, and is highly reactive (though in the atmosphere, it is soon coated in a thin layer of oxide that partly inhibits reactivity – see passivation). The free metal burns with a characteristic brilliant-white light. The metal is now obtained mainly by electrolysis of magnesium salts obtained from brine, and is used primarily as a component in aluminium-magnesium alloys, sometimes called \"magnalium\" or \"magnelium\". Magnesium is less dense than aluminium, and the alloy is prized for its combination of lightness and strength.\n\nMagnesium is the eleventh most abundant element by mass in the human body and is essential to all cells and some 300 enzymes. Magnesium ions interact with polyphosphate compounds such as ATP, DNA, and RNA. Hundreds of enzymes require magnesium ions to function. Magnesium compounds are used medicinally as common laxatives, antacids (e.g., milk of magnesia), and to stabilize abnormal nerve excitation or blood vessel spasm in such conditions as eclampsia.\n\nElemental magnesium is a gray-white lightweight metal, two-thirds the density of aluminium. It tarnishes slightly when exposed to air, although, unlike the heavier alkaline earth metals, an oxygen-free environment is unnecessary for storage because magnesium is protected by a thin layer of oxide that is fairly impermeable and difficult to remove. Magnesium has the lowest melting () and the lowest boiling point of all the alkaline earth metals.\n\nMagnesium reacts with water at room temperature, though it reacts much more slowly than calcium, a similar group 2 metal. When submerged in water, hydrogen bubbles form slowly on the surface of the metal – though, if powdered, it reacts much more rapidly. The reaction occurs faster with higher temperatures (see safety precautions). Magnesium's reversible reaction with water can be harnessed to store energy and run a magnesium-based engine.\n\nMagnesium also reacts exothermically with most acids such as hydrochloric acid (HCl), producing the metal chloride and hydrogen gas, similar to the HCl reaction with aluminium, zinc, and many other metals.\n\nMagnesium is highly flammable, especially when powdered or shaved into thin strips, though it is difficult to ignite in mass or bulk. Flame temperatures of magnesium and magnesium alloys can reach , although flame height above the burning metal is usually less than . Once ignited, such fires are difficult to extinguish, because combustion continues in nitrogen (forming magnesium nitride), carbon dioxide (forming magnesium oxide and carbon), and water (forming magnesium oxide and hydrogen). This property was used in incendiary weapons during the firebombing of cities in World War II, where the only practical civil defense was to smother a burning flare under dry sand to exclude atmosphere from the combustion.\n\nMagnesium may also be used as an igniter for thermite, a mixture of aluminium and iron oxide powder that ignites only at a very high temperature.\n\nWhen burning in air, magnesium produces a brilliant-white light that includes strong ultraviolet wavelengths. Magnesium powder (flash powder) was used for subject illumination in the early days of photography. Later, magnesium filament was used in electrically ignited single-use photography flashbulbs. Magnesium powder is used in fireworks and marine flares where a brilliant white light is required. It was also used for various theatrical effects, such as lightning, pistol flashes, and supernatural appearances.\n\nMagnesium is the eighth-most-abundant element in the Earth's crust by mass and tied in seventh place with iron in molarity. It is found in large deposits of magnesite, dolomite, and other minerals, and in mineral waters, where magnesium ion is soluble.\n\nAlthough magnesium is found in more than 60 minerals, only dolomite, magnesite, brucite, carnallite, talc, and olivine are of commercial importance.\n\nThe cation is the second-most-abundant cation in seawater (about ⅛ the mass of sodium ions in a given sample), which makes seawater and sea salt attractive commercial sources for Mg. To extract the magnesium, calcium hydroxide is added to seawater to form magnesium hydroxide precipitate.\n\nMagnesium hydroxide (brucite) is insoluble in water and can be filtered out and reacted with hydrochloric acid to produced concentrated magnesium chloride.\nFrom magnesium chloride, electrolysis produces magnesium.\n\nAs of 2013, magnesium alloy consumption was less than one million tons per year, compared with 50 million tons of aluminum alloys. Its use has been historically limited by its tendency to corrode, creep at high temperatures, and combust.\n\nThe presence of iron, nickel, copper, and cobalt strongly activates corrosion. Greater than a very small percentage, these metals precipitate as intermetallic compounds, and the precipitate locales function as active cathodic sites that reduce water, causing the loss of magnesium. Controlling the quantity of these metals improves corrosion resistance. Sufficient manganese overcomes the corrosive effects of iron. This requires precise control over composition, increasing costs. Adding a cathodic poison captures atomic hydrogen within the structure of a metal. This prevents the formation of free hydrogen gas, an essential factor of corrosive chemical processes. The addition of about one in three hundred parts arsenic reduces its corrosion rate in a salt solution by a factor of nearly ten.\n\nResearch showed that magnesium's tendency to creep at high-temperatures is eliminated by the addition of scandium and gadolinium. Flammability is greatly reduced by a small amount of calcium in the alloy.\n\nMagnesium forms a variety of compounds important to industry and biology, including magnesium carbonate, magnesium chloride, magnesium citrate, magnesium hydroxide (milk of magnesia), magnesium oxide, magnesium sulfate, and magnesium sulfate heptahydrate (Epsom salts).\n\nMagnesium has three stable isotopes: , and . All are present in significant amounts (see table of isotopes above). About 79% of Mg is . The isotope is radioactive and in the 1950s to 1970s was produced by several nuclear power plants for use in scientific experiments. This isotope has a relatively short half-life (21 hours) and its use was limited by shipping times.\n\nThe nuclide has found application in isotopic geology, similar to that of aluminium. is a radiogenic daughter product of , which has a half-life of 717,000 years. Excessive quantities of stable have been observed in the Ca-Al-rich inclusions of some carbonaceous chondrite meteorites. This anomalous abundance is attributed to the decay of its parent in the inclusions, and researchers conclude that such meteorites were formed in the solar nebula before the had decayed. These are among the oldest objects in the solar system and contain preserved information about its early history.\n\nIt is conventional to plot / against an Al/Mg ratio. In an isochron dating plot, the Al/Mg ratio plotted is/. The slope of the isochron has no age significance, but indicates the initial / ratio in the sample at the time when the systems were separated from a common reservoir.\n\nChina is the dominant supplier of magnesium, with approximately 80% of the world market share. China is almost completely reliant on the silicothermic Pidgeon process (the reduction of the oxide at high temperatures with silicon, often provided by a ferrosilicon alloy in which the iron is but a spectator in the reactions) to obtain the metal. The process can also be carried out with carbon at approx 2300 °C:\n\nIn the United States, magnesium is obtained principally with the Dow process, by electrolysis of fused magnesium chloride from brine and sea water. A saline solution containing ions is first treated with lime (calcium oxide) and the precipitated magnesium hydroxide is collected:\n\nThe hydroxide is then converted to a partial hydrate of magnesium chloride by treating the hydroxide with hydrochloric acid and heating of the product:\n\nThe salt is then electrolyzed in the molten state. At the cathode, the ion is reduced by two electrons to magnesium metal:\n\nAt the anode, each pair of ions is oxidized to chlorine gas, releasing two electrons to complete the circuit:\n\nA new process, solid oxide membrane technology, involves the electrolytic reduction of MgO. At the cathode, ion is reduced by two electrons to magnesium metal. The electrolyte is yttria-stabilized zirconia (YSZ). The anode is a liquid metal. At the YSZ/liquid metal anode is oxidized. A layer of graphite borders the liquid metal anode, and at this interface carbon and oxygen react to form carbon monoxide. When silver is used as the liquid metal anode, there is no reductant carbon or hydrogen needed, and only oxygen gas is evolved at the anode. It has been reported that this method provides a 40% reduction in cost per pound over the electrolytic reduction method. This method is more environmentally sound than others because there is much less carbon dioxide emitted.\n\nThe United States has traditionally been the major world supplier of this metal, supplying 45% of world production even as recently as 1995. Today, the US market share is at 7%, with a single domestic producer left, US Magnesium, a Renco Group company in Utah born from now-defunct Magcorp.\n\nThe name magnesium originates from the Greek word for a district in Thessaly called Magnesia. It is related to magnetite and manganese, which also originated from this area, and required differentiation as separate substances. See manganese for this history.\n\nIn 1618, a farmer at Epsom in England attempted to give his cows water from a well there. The cows refused to drink because of the water's bitter taste, but the farmer noticed that the water seemed to heal scratches and rashes. The substance became known as Epsom salts and its fame spread. It was eventually recognized as hydrated magnesium sulfate, ·7.\n\nThe metal itself was first isolated by Sir Humphry Davy in England in 1808. He used electrolysis on a mixture of magnesia and mercuric oxide. Antoine Bussy prepared it in coherent form in 1831. Davy's first suggestion for a name was magnium, but the name magnesium is now used.\n\nMagnesium is the third-most-commonly-used structural metal, following iron and aluminium.\n\nThe main applications of magnesium are, in order: aluminium alloys, die-casting (alloyed with zinc), removing sulfur in the production of iron and steel, and the production of titanium in the Kroll process.\n\nMagnesium is used in super-strong, lightweight materials and alloys. For example, when infused with silicon carbide nanoparticles, it has extremely high specific strength.\n\nHistorically, magnesium was one of the main aerospace construction metals and was used for German military aircraft as early as World War I and extensively for German aircraft in World War II.\n\nThe Germans coined the name \"Elektron\" for magnesium alloy, a term which is still used today. In the commercial aerospace industry, magnesium was generally restricted to engine-related components, due to fire and corrosion hazards. Currently, magnesium alloy use in aerospace is increasing, driven by the importance of fuel economy. Development and testing of new magnesium alloys continues, notably Elektron 21, which (in test) has proved suitable for aerospace engine, internal, and airframe components. The European Community runs three R&D magnesium projects in the Aerospace priority of Six Framework Program.\n\nIn the form of thin ribbons, magnesium is used to purify solvents; for example, preparing super-dry ethanol.\n\n\nBoth AJ62A and AE44 are recent developments in high-temperature low-creep magnesium alloys. The general strategy for such alloys is to form intermetallic precipitates at the grain boundaries, for example by adding mischmetal or calcium. New alloy development and lower costs that make magnesium competitive with aluminium will increase the number of automotive applications.\n\nBecause of low weight and good mechanical and electrical properties, magnesium is widely used for manufacturing of mobile phones, laptop and tablet computers, cameras, and other electronic components.\n\nMagnesium, being readily available and relatively nontoxic, has a variety of uses:\n\nMagnesium metal and its alloys can be explosive hazards; they are highly flammable in their pure form when molten or in powder or ribbon form. Burning or molten magnesium reacts violently with water. When working with powdered magnesium, safety glasses with eye protection and UV filters (such as welders use) are employed because burning magnesium produces ultraviolet light that can permanently damage the retina of a human eye.\n\nMagnesium is capable of reducing water and releasing highly flammable hydrogen gas:\n\nTherefore, water cannot extinguish magnesium fires. The hydrogen gas produced intensifies the fire. Dry sand is an effective smothering agent, but only on relatively level and flat surfaces.\n\nMagnesium reacts with carbon dioxide exothermically to form magnesium oxide and carbon:\n\nHence, carbon dioxide fuels rather than extinguishes magnesium fires.\n\nBurning magnesium can be quenched by using a Class D dry chemical fire extinguisher, or by covering the fire with sand or magnesium foundry flux to remove its air source.\n\nMagnesium compounds, primarily magnesium oxide (MgO), are used as a refractory material in furnace linings for producing iron, steel, nonferrous metals, glass, and cement. Magnesium oxide and other magnesium compounds are also used in the agricultural, chemical, and construction industries. Magnesium oxide from calcination is used as an electrical insulator in fire-resistant cables.\n\nMagnesium reacted with an alkyl halide gives a Grignard reagent, which is a very useful tool for preparing alcohols.\n\nMagnesium salts are included in various foods, fertilizers (magnesium is a component of chlorophyll), and microbe culture media.\n\nMagnesium sulfite is used in the manufacture of paper (sulfite process).\n\nMagnesium phosphate is used to fireproof wood used in construction.\n\nMagnesium hexafluorosilicate is used for moth-proofing textiles.\n\nThe important interaction between phosphate and magnesium ions makes magnesium essential to the basic nucleic acid chemistry of all cells of all known living organisms. More than 300 enzymes require magnesium ions for their catalytic action, including all enzymes using or synthesizing ATP and those that use other nucleotides to synthesize DNA and RNA. The ATP molecule is normally found in a chelate with a magnesium ion.\n\n Spices, nuts, cereals, cocoa and vegetables are rich sources of magnesium. Green leafy vegetables such as spinach are also rich in magnesium.\n\nIn the UK, the recommended daily values for magnesium are 300 mg for men and 270 mg for women. In the U.S. the Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) are 400 mg for men ages 19–30 and 420 mg for older; for women 310 mg for ages 19–30 and 320 mg for older.\n\nNumerous pharmaceutical preparations of magnesium and dietary supplements are available. In two human trials magnesium oxide, one of the most common forms in magnesium dietary supplements because of its high magnesium content per weight, was less bioavailable than magnesium citrate, chloride, lactate or aspartate.\n\nAn adult has 22–26 grams of magnesium, with 60% in the skeleton, 39% intracellular (20% in skeletal muscle), and 1% extracellular. Serum levels are typically 0.7–1.0 mmol/L or 1.8–2.4 mEq/L. Serum magnesium levels may be normal even when intracellular magnesium is deficient. The mechanisms for maintaining the magnesium level in the serum are varying gastrointestinal absorption and renal excretion. Intracellular magnesium is correlated with intracellular potassium. Increased magnesium lowers calcium and can either prevent hypercalcemia or cause hypocalcemia depending on the initial level. Both low and high protein intake conditions inhibit magnesium absorption, as does the amount of phosphate, phytate, and fat in the gut. Unabsorbed dietary magnesium is excreted in feces; absorbed magnesium is excreted in urine and sweat.\n\nMagnesium status may be assessed by measuring serum and erythrocyte magnesium concentrations coupled with urinary and fecal magnesium content, but intravenous magnesium loading tests are more accurate and practical. A retention of 20% or more of the injected amount indicates deficiency. No biomarker has been established for magnesium.\n\nMagnesium concentrations in plasma or serum may be monitored for efficacy and safety in those receiving the drug therapeutically, to confirm the diagnosis in potential poisoning victims, or to assist in the forensic investigation in a case of fatal overdose. The newborn children of mothers who received parenteral magnesium sulfate during labor may exhibit toxicity with normal serum magnesium levels.\n\nLow plasma magnesium (hypomagnesemia) is common: it is found in 2.5–15% of the general population. From 2005 to 2006, 48 percent of the United States population consumed less magnesium than recommended in the Dietary Reference Intake. Other causes are increased renal or gastrointestinal loss, an increased intracellular shift, and proton-pump inhibitor antacid therapy. Most are asymptomatic, but symptoms referable to neuromuscular, cardiovascular, and metabolic dysfunction may occur. Alcoholism is often associated with magnesium deficiency. Chronically low serum magnesium levels are associated with metabolic syndrome, diabetes mellitus type 2, fasciculation, and hypertension.\n\n\nSorted by type of magnesium salt, other therapeutic applications include:\n\nOverdose from dietary sources alone is unlikely because excess magnesium in the blood is promptly filtered by the kidneys, and overdose is more likely in the presence of impaired renal function. In spite of this, megadose therapy has caused death in a young child, and severe hypermagnesemia in a woman and a young girl who had healthy kidneys.\nThe most common symptoms of overdose are nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea; other symptoms include hypotension, confusion, slowed heart and respiratory rate, deficiencies of other minerals, coma, cardiac arrhythmia, and death from cardiac arrest.\n\nPlants require magnesium to synthesize chlorophyll, essential for photosynthesis. Magnesium in the center of the porphyrin ring in chlorophyll functions in a manner similar to the iron in the center of the porphyrin ring in heme. Magnesium deficiency in plants causes late-season yellowing between leaf veins, especially in older leaves, and can be corrected by either applying epsom salts (which is rapidly leached), or crushed dolomitic limestone, to the soil.\n\n"}
{"id": "162269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162269", "title": "Magnesium oxide", "text": "Magnesium oxide\n\nMagnesium oxide (MgO), or magnesia, is a white hygroscopic solid mineral that occurs naturally as periclase and is a source of magnesium (see also oxide). It has an empirical formula of and consists of a lattice of Mg ions and O ions held together by ionic bonding. Magnesium hydroxide forms in the presence of water (MgO + HO → Mg(OH)), but it can be reversed by heating it to separate moisture.\n\nMagnesium oxide was historically known as magnesia alba (literally, the white mineral from magnesia – other sources give magnesia alba as MgCO), to differentiate it from \"magnesia negra\", a black mineral containing what is now known as manganese.\n\nWhile \"magnesium oxide\" normally refers to MgO, magnesium peroxide MgO is also known as a compound. According to evolutionary crystal structure prediction, MgO is thermodynamically stable at pressures above 116 GPa (gigapascals), and a semiconducting suboxide MgO is thermodynamically stable above 500 GPa. Because of its stability, MgO is used as a model system for investigating vibrational properties of crystals.\n\nMagnesium oxide is produced by the calcination of magnesium carbonate or magnesium hydroxide. The latter is obtained by the treatment of magnesium chloride solutions, typically seawater, with lime.\nCalcining at different temperatures produces magnesium oxide of different reactivity. High temperatures 1500 – 2000 °C diminish the available surface area and produces dead-burned (often called dead burnt) magnesia, an unreactive form used as a refractory. Calcining temperatures 1000 – 1500 °C produce hard-burned magnesia, which has limited reactivity and calcining at lower temperature, (700–1000 °C) produces light-burned magnesia, a reactive form, also known as caustic calcined magnesia. Although some decomposition of the carbonate to oxide occurs at temperatures below 700 °C, the resulting materials appears to reabsorb carbon dioxide from the air.\n\nMgO is prized as a refractory material, i.e. a solid that is physically and chemically stable at high temperatures. It has two useful attributes: high thermal conductivity and low electrical conductivity. \"By far the largest consumer of magnesia worldwide is the refractory industry, which consumed about 56 % of the magnesia in the United States in 2004, the remaining 44 % being used in agricultural, chemical, construction, environmental, and other industrial applications.\" MgO is used as a basic refractory material for crucibles.\n\nIt is a principal fireproofing ingredient in construction materials. As a construction material, magnesium oxide wallboards have several attractive characteristics: fire resistance, termite resistance, moisture resistance, mold and mildew resistance, and strength.\n\nMgO is one of the components in Portland cement in dry process plants. \n\nMagnesium oxide is used extensively in the soil and groundwater remediation, wastewater treatment, drinking water treatment, air emissions treatment, and waste treatment industries for its acid buffering capacity and related effectiveness in stabilizing dissolved heavy metal species.\n\nMany heavy metals species, such as lead and cadmium are most soluble in water at acidic pH (below 6) as well as high pH (above 11). Solubility of metals affects bioavailability of the species and mobility soil and groundwater systems. Most metal species are toxic to humans at certain concentrations, therefore it is imperative to minimize metal bioavailability and mobility.\n\nGranular MgO is often blended into metals-contaminated soil or waste material, which is also commonly of a low (acidic) pH, in order to drive the pH into the 8–10 range where most metals are at their lowest solubilities. Metal-hydroxide complexes have a tendency to precipitate out of aqueous solution in the pH range of 8–10. MgO is widely regarded as the most effective metals stabilization compound when compared to Portland cement, lime, kiln dust products, power generation waste products, and various proprietary products due to MgO's superior buffering capacity, cost effectiveness, and ease/safety of handling.\n\nMost, if not all products that are marketed as metals stabilization technologies create very high pH conditions in aquifers whereas MgO creates an ideal aquifer condition with a pH of 8–10. Additionally, magnesium, an essential element to most biological systems, is provided to soil and groundwater microbial populations during MgO-assisted metals remediation as an added benefit.\n\nMagnesium oxide has poor solubility in water and is poorly absorbed from the gut. For this reason, magnesium oxide is relatively ineffective for correcting magnesium deficiency. Magnesium oxide is used for relief of heartburn and sour stomach, as an antacid, magnesium supplement, and as a short-term laxative. It is also used to improve symptoms of indigestion. Side effects of magnesium oxide may include nausea and cramping. In quantities sufficient to obtain a laxative effect, side effects of long-term use include enteroliths resulting in bowel obstruction.\n\n\n\nInhalation of magnesium oxide fumes can cause metal fume fever. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8577896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8577896", "title": "Methane reformer", "text": "Methane reformer\n\nA methane reformer is a device based on steam reforming, autothermal reforming or partial oxidation and is a type of chemical synthesis which can produce pure hydrogen gas from methane using a catalyst. There are multiple types of reformers in development but the most common in industry are autothermal reforming (ATR) and steam methane reforming (SMR). Most methods work by exposing methane to a catalyst (usually nickel) at high temperature and pressure.\n\nSteam reforming (SR), sometimes referred to as steam methane reforming (SMR) uses an external source of hot gas to heat tubes in which a catalytic reaction takes place that converts steam and lighter hydrocarbons such as methane, biogas or refinery feedstock into hydrogen and carbon monoxide (syngas). Syngas reacts further to give more hydrogen and carbon dioxide in the reactor. The carbon oxides are removed before use by means of pressure swing adsorption (PSA) with molecular sieves for the final purification. The PSA works by adsorbing impurities from the syngas stream to leave a pure hydrogen gas.\n\nAutothermal reforming (ATR) uses oxygen and carbon dioxide or steam in a reaction with methane to form syngas. The reaction takes place in a single chamber where the methane is partially oxidized. The reaction is exothermic due to the oxidation. \nWhen the ATR uses carbon dioxide the H:CO ratio produced is 1:1; when the ATR uses steam the H:CO ratio produced is 2.5:1\n\nThe reactions can be described in the following equations, using CO:\n\nAnd using steam:\n\nThe outlet temperature of the syngas is between 950-1100 C and outlet pressure can be as high as 100 bar.\n\nThe main difference between SMR and ATR is that SMR only uses oxygen via air for combustion as a heat source to create steam, while ATR directly combusts oxygen. The advantage of ATR is that the H:CO can be varied, this is particularly useful for producing certain second generation biofuels, such as DME which requires a 1:1 H:CO ratio.\n\nPartial oxidation (POX) is a type of chemical reaction. It occurs when a substoichiometric fuel-air mixture is partially combusted in a reformer, creating a hydrogen-rich syngas which can then be put to further use. \nThe capital cost of steam reforming plants is prohibitive for small to medium size applications because the technology does not scale down well. Conventional steam reforming plants operate at pressures between 200 and 600 psi with outlet temperatures in the range of 815 to 925 °C. However, analyses have shown that even though it is more costly to construct, a well-designed SMR can produce hydrogen more cost-effectively than an ATR.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8231140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8231140", "title": "Methanol reformer", "text": "Methanol reformer\n\nA methanol reformer is a device used in chemical engineering, especially in the area of fuel cell technology, which can produce pure hydrogen gas and carbon dioxide by reacting a methanol and water (steam) mixture.\n\nA mixture of water and methanol with a molar concentration ratio (water:methanol) of 1.0 - 1.5 is pressurized to approximately 20 bar, vaporized and heated to a temperature of 250 - 360 °C. The hydrogen that is created is separated through the use of Pressure swing adsorption or a hydrogen-permeable membrane made of polymer or a palladium alloy.\n\nThere are two basic methods of conducting this process.\n\nWith either design, not all of the hydrogen is removed from the product gases (raffinate). Since the remaining gas mixture still contains a significant amount of chemical energy, it is often mixed with air and burned to provide heat for the endothermic reforming reaction.\n\nMethanol reformers are being considered as a component of a hydrogen fuel cell-powered vehicle. A prototype car, the NECAR 5, was introduced by Daimler-Chrysler in the year 2000. The primary advantage of a vehicle with a reformer is that it does not need a pressurized gas tank to store hydrogen fuel; instead methanol is stored as a liquid. The logistic implications of this are great; pressurized hydrogen is difficult to store and produce. Also, this could help ease the public's concern over the danger of hydrogen and thereby make fuel cell powered vehicles more attractive. However, methanol, like gasoline, is toxic and (of course) flammable. The cost of the PdAg membrane and its susceptibility to damage by temperature changes provide obstacles to adoption.\n\nWhile hydrogen power produces energy without CO, a methanol reformer creates the gas as a byproduct. \n\nMethanol (prepared from natural gas) that is used in an efficient fuel cell, however, releases less CO in the atmosphere than gasoline, in a net analysis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38567242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38567242", "title": "Ministry of Energy and Mining (Algeria)", "text": "Ministry of Energy and Mining (Algeria)\n\nThe Ministry of Energy and Mining (, \"Ministry of Energy and Mines\") is a ministry of the government of Algeria. The head office is in Tour A in Algiers. As of 2013 Youcef Yousfi is the minister.\n\n"}
{"id": "3818220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3818220", "title": "Obvio! 828", "text": "Obvio! 828\n\nObvio! 828 is a car made by Obvio!. The car was originally made by Dacon as Dacon 828. Dacon was originally the Brazilian representative of Porsche, but when imports were prohibited in 1976 they developed a car of their own. The name was chosen to remind one of Porsche 928 and the Dacon 828 used rear lights and other Porsche parts for their car. The Dacon version was only sold between 1983 and July 1994, only 47 cars were sold. It was then powered by a 1.6 litre VW boxer engine connected to a 4 speed gearbox.\n\nIt is a mid-engine design using a continuously variable transmission (CVT) transmission (that also can mimic a 6 speed sequential gearbox) and powered by a 4 cylinder, inline 16 valve 1.6 liter Tritec engine (high power version with either or are also available). They are described as \"high performance urban cars\". Fuel consumption is in the city or in highways. It is a flexible-fuel vehicle that runs on either neat ethanol fuel (E100) or gasoline or any mix thereof.\n\nThe chassis is designed as a series of ellipses to be strong, yet low weight. A system called \"Niess Elliptical Survive Rings\". The cars have three seats and are fitted with airbags. It has McPherson suspensions and disc brakes all round. The internal and external panels of the bodyshell is made of ABS/PMMA plastic. It uses scissor doors and also has a \"Boblbee\" backpack space integrated into the design.\n\nThe 828 has a list price of . Extras offered are air conditioning, individual seats, power windows/rear mirror/door lock package, leather seats and an \"iMobile Carputer\". \n\nThe Obvio! 828H is a concept hybrid electric version that runs on a flex-fuel engines and it was presented in Rio de Janeiro on November 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1530838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1530838", "title": "Ozokerite", "text": "Ozokerite\n\nOzokerite or ozocerite (Gr. Όζο \"oze\", stench, and κερί \"kero\", wax), archaically referred to as earthwax or earth wax, is a naturally occurring odoriferous mineral wax or paraffin found in many localities. \nSpecimens have been obtained from Scotland, Northumberland, Wales, as well as from about thirty different countries. Of these occurrences the ozokerite of the island (now peninsula) of Cheleken, near Türkmenbaşy Bay, parts of the Himalayas in India and the deposits of Utah in the United States, deserve mention, though the last-named have been largely worked out. The sole sources of commercial supply are in Galicia, at Boryslav, Dzwiniacz and Starunia, though the mineral is found at other points on both flanks of the Carpathians.\n\nOzokerite deposits are believed to have originated in much the same way as mineral veins, the slow evaporation and oxidation of petroleum having resulted in the deposition of its dissolved paraffin in the fissures and crevices previously occupied by the liquid. As found native, ozokerite varies from a very soft wax to a black mass as hard as gypsum.\n\nIts specific gravity ranges from 0.85 to 0.95, and its melting point from . It is soluble in ether, petroleum, benzene, turpentine, chloroform, carbon disulfide and others. Galician ozokerite varies in color from light yellow to dark brown, and frequently appears green owing to dichroism. It usually melts at . Chemically, ozokerite consists of a mixture of various hydrocarbons, containing 85-87% by weight of carbon and 14-13% of hydrogen.\n\nThe mining of ozokerite began in Galicia in the 1880s, and was formerly carried on by means of hand-labor, but in the ozokerite mines owned by the Boryslaw Actien Gesellschaft and the Galizische Kreditbank, the workings of which extend to a depth of , and , respectively, electrical power is employed for hauling, pumping and ventilating. In these mines there are the usual main shafts and galleries, the ozokerite being reached by levels driven along the strike of the deposit. The wax, as it reaches the surface, varies in purity, and, in new workings especially, only hand-picking is needed to separate the pure material. In other cases much earthy matter is mixed with the material, and then the rock or shale having been eliminated by hand-picking, the \"wax-stone\" is boiled with water in large coppers, when the pure wax rises to the surface. This is again melted without water, and the impurities are skimmed off, the material being then run into slightly conical cylindrical moulds, and thus made into blocks for the market. The crude ozokerite is refined by treatment first with sulfuric acid, and subsequently with charcoal, when the ceresine or cerasin of commerce is obtained. The refined ozokerite or ceresine, which usually has a melting-point of , is largely used as an adulterant of beeswax, and is frequently colored artificially to resemble that product in appearance.\n\nOn distillation in a current of superheated steam, ozokerite yields a candle-making material resembling the paraffin obtained from petroleum and shale-oil but of higher melting-point, and therefore of greater value if the candles made from it are to be used in hot climates. There are also obtained in the distillation light oils and a product resembling vaseline. The residue in the stills consists of a hard, black, waxy substance, which in admixture with India-rubber was employed under the name of okonite as an electrical insulator. From the residue a form of the material known as heel-ball, used to impart a polished surface to the heels and soles of boots, was also manufactured.\n\nMining of ozokerite fell off after 1940 due to competition from paraffins manufactured from petroleum, but as it has a higher melting point than most petroleum waxes, it is still favored for some applications, such as electrical insulators and candles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2563306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2563306", "title": "Prismane", "text": "Prismane\n\nPrismane or 'Ladenburg benzene' is a polycyclic hydrocarbon with the formula CH. It is an isomer of benzene, specifically a valence isomer. Prismane is far less stable than benzene. The carbon (and hydrogen) atoms of the prismane molecule are arranged in the shape of a six-atom triangular prism—this compound is the parent and simplest member of the prismanes class of molecules. Albert Ladenburg proposed this structure for the compound now known as benzene. The compound was not synthesized until 1973.\n\nIn the mid 19th century, investigators proposed several possible structures for benzene which were consistent with its empirical formula, CH, which had been determined by combustion analysis. The first, which was proposed by Kekulé in 1865, later proved to be closest to the true structure of benzene. This structure inspired several others to propose structures that were consistent with benzene's empirical formula; for example, Ladenburg proposed prismane, Dewar proposed Dewar benzene, and Koerner and Claus proposed Claus' benzene. Some of these structures would be synthesized in the following years. Prismane, like the other proposed structures for benzene, is still often cited in the literature, because it is part of the historical struggle toward understanding the mesomeric structures and resonance of benzene. Some computational chemists still research the differences between the possible isomers of CH.\n\nPrismane is a colourless liquid at room temperature. The deviation of the carbon-carbon bond angle from 109° to 60° in a triangle leads to a high ring strain, reminiscent of that of cyclopropane but greater. The compound is explosive, which is unusual for a hydrocarbon. Due to this ring strain, the bonds have a low bond energy and break at a low activation energy, which makes synthesis of the molecule difficult; Woodward and Hoffmann noted that prismane's thermal rearrangement to benzene is symmetry-forbidden, comparing it to \"an angry tiger unable to break out of a paper cage.\" On account of its strain energy and the aromatic stabilization of benzene, the molecule is estimated to be 90 kcal/mole less stable than benzene, but the activation of this highly exothermic transformation is a surprisingly high 33 kcal/mol, making it persistent at room temperature.\n\nThe substituted derivative hexamethylprismane (in which all six hydrogens are substituted by methyl groups) has a higher stability, and was synthesized by rearrangement reactions in 1966.\n\nThe synthesis starts from benzvalene (1) and 4-phenyltriazolidone (2), which is a strong dienophile. The reaction is a stepwise Diels-Alder like reaction, forming a carbocation as intermediate. The adduct (3) is then hydrolyzed under basic conditions and afterwards transformed into a copper(II) chloride derivative with acidic copper(II) chloride. Neutralized with a strong base, the azo compound (5) could be crystallized with 65% yield. The last step is a photolysis of the azo compound. This photolysis leads to a biradical which forms prismane (6) and nitrogen with a yield of less than 10%. The compound was isolated by preparative gas chromatography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1221448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1221448", "title": "Prompt neutron", "text": "Prompt neutron\n\nIn nuclear engineering, a prompt neutron is a neutron immediately emitted by a nuclear fission event, as opposed to a delayed neutron decay which can occur within the same context, emitted after beta decay of one of the fission products anytime from a few milliseconds to a few minutes later.\n\nPrompt neutrons emerge from the fission of an unstable fissionable or fissile heavy nucleus almost instantaneously. There are different definitions for how long it takes for a prompt neutron to emerge. For example, the United States Department of Energy defines a prompt neutron as a neutron born from fission within 10 seconds after the fission event. The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission defines a prompt neutron as a neutron emerging from fission within 10 seconds. \n\nThis emission is controlled by the nuclear force and is extremely fast. By contrast, so-called delayed neutrons are delayed by the time delay associated with beta decay (mediated by the weak force) to the precursor excited nuclide, after which neutron emission happens on a prompt time scale (i.e., almost immediately).\n\nUsing U-235 as an example, this nucleus absorbs thermal neutrons, and the immediate mass products of a fission event are two large fission fragments, which are remnants of the formed U-236 nucleus. These fragments emit two or three free neutrons (2.5 on average), called \"prompt\" neutrons. A subsequent fission fragment occasionally undergoes a stage of radioactive decay that yields an additional neutron, called a \"delayed\" neutron. These neutron-emitting fission fragments are called \"delayed neutron precursor atoms\".\n\nDelayed neutrons are associated with the beta decay of the fission products. After prompt fission neutron emission the residual fragments are still neutron rich and undergo a beta decay chain. The more neutron rich the fragment, the more energetic and faster the beta decay. In some cases the available energy in the beta decay is high enough to leave the residual nucleus in such a highly excited state that neutron emission instead of gamma emission occurs.\n\nDelayed Neutron Data for Thermal Fission in U-235\n\nThe standard deviation of the final kinetic energy distribution as a function of mass of final fragments from low energy fission of uranium 234 and uranium 236, presents a peak around light fragment masses region and another on heavy fragment masses region. Simulation by Monte Carlo method of these experiments suggests that those peaks are produced by prompt neutron emission. This effect of prompt neutron emission does not provide a primary mass and kinetic distribution which is important to study fission dynamics from saddle to scission point.\n\nIf a nuclear reactor happened to be prompt critical - even very slightly - the number of neutrons and power output would increase exponentially at a high rate. The response time of mechanical systems like control rods is far too slow to moderate this kind of power surge. The control of the power rise would then be left to its intrinsic physical stability factors, like the thermal dilatation of the core, or the increased resonance absorptions of neutrons, that usually tend to decrease the reactor's reactivity when temperature rises; but the reactor would run the risk of being damaged or destroyed by heat.\n\nHowever, thanks to the delayed neutrons, it is possible to leave the reactor in a subcritical state as far as only prompt neutrons are concerned: the delayed neutrons come a moment later, just in time to sustain the chain reaction when it is going to die out. In that regime, neutron production overall still grows exponentially, but on a time scale that is governed by the delayed neutron production, which is slow enough to be controlled (just as an otherwise unstable bicycle can be balanced because human reflexes are quick enough on the time scale of its instability). Thus, by widening the margins of non-operation and supercriticality and allowing more time to regulate the reactor, the delayed neutrons are essential to inherent reactor safety and even in reactors requiring active control.\n\nThe factor β is defined as:\n\nand it is equal to 0.0064 for U-235.\n\nThe delayed neutron fraction (DNF) is defined as:\n\nThese two factors, β and \"DNF\", are not the same thing in case of a rapid change in the number of neutrons in the reactor.\n\nAnother concept, is the \"effective fraction of delayed neutrons\", which is the fraction of delayed neutrons weighted (over space, energy, and angle) on the adjoint neutron flux. This concept arises because delayed neutrons are emitted with an energy spectrum more thermalized relative to prompt neutrons. For low enriched uranium fuel working on a thermal neutron spectrum, the difference between the average and effective delayed neutron fractions can reach 50 pcm (1 pcm = 1e-5).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57613309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57613309", "title": "Proposed nuclear power stations in the United Kingdom", "text": "Proposed nuclear power stations in the United Kingdom\n\nProposed nuclear power stations in the United Kingdom include: \n\nTwo other sites, Heysham and Hartlepool, were identified as possible locations in 2010 but these appear to have been dropped. \n\n"}
{"id": "24171115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24171115", "title": "Santa Rosa storm", "text": "Santa Rosa storm\n\nThe Santa Rosa Storm occurs in the Southern Hemisphere up to fifteen days earlier than or fifteen days later than the festival of Santa Rosa of Lima, Perú, celebrated on August 30 each year. \n\nLegend has it that Isabel Flores de Oliva, a.k.a. Rosa de Lima, caused a mighty storm which prevented Dutch pirates from attacking the city of Lima in 1615. However, meteorologists attribute the storm to the clash of the first warm winds which are a product of the arrival of spring with cold fronts. \n\nThe legend is very popular in Argentina and Uruguay, especially around the Rio de la Plata area (including Buenos Aires and Montevideo) and the Argentinian province of Córdoba and the Cuyo region, west of Buenos Aires.\n\nClimate data show that the storm is one of the first to form at the end of Southern winter, some 10 days before August 20 and September 20.\n\nIn popular belief, the Santa Rosa storm is one of the most violent of the year. However, reality is different. For the City of Buenos Aires (according to the Villa Ortúzar SMN Observatory), the storm has only appeared five days before or after the 30 August on sixteen occasions since 1861. However, showers are frequent in this period, which helps keep the myth alive. \n\nOf the sixteen storms, seven have occurred since 1992, probably owing to global warming.\n\n"}
{"id": "12578846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12578846", "title": "School of Petroleum Technology", "text": "School of Petroleum Technology\n\nThe School of Petroleum Technology (SPT), formerly known as the Institute of Petroleum Technology is part of the Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University, in Gandhinagar. It offers courses addressing the technological requirements of the oil and gas sector. The programmes offered include education in aspects of the petroleum industry, including exploration, production, drilling, reservoir, transportation, refining & geosciences of energy and petroleum sector. The B.Tech (petroleum engineering) programme of SPT is approved by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).\n\n"}
{"id": "31181246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31181246", "title": "Scottish Renewables", "text": "Scottish Renewables\n\nScottish Renewables is the representative body of the Scottish renewable energy industry. Since 1996, it has aimed to present a united voice to decision makers who make energy policy. Scottish Renewables represents over 300 members and member organisations are wide ranging across all technologies and supply chains. Scottish Renewables has developed 14 focus areas to fully represent the renewable energy industry. These include: offshore wind power, onshore wind power, bioenergy, heat, hydro, marine energy, and microgeneration.\n\nJohanna Yates, offshore policy manager for Scottish Renewables, has said Scotland is the natural home to offshore renewable energy, with abundant natural resources and long heritage of maritime industry – principally oil and gas and fisheries. Scotland’s potential is well known and in recent months there has been investment from significant international players, such as Doosan, Mitsubishi and Gamesa, all vying to establish their wind turbines in Scottish waters. Future employment for offshore wind projects is promising, with up to 28,000 direct jobs being created by 2020, leading to an economic input of £7 billion.\n\n"}
{"id": "300935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300935", "title": "Sodium-potassium alloy", "text": "Sodium-potassium alloy\n\nSodium-potassium alloy, colloquially called NaK (commonly pronounced ), is an alloy of two alkali metals, sodium (Na, atomic number 11) and potassium (K, atomic number 19), and which is usually liquid at room temperature. Various commercial grades are available. NaK is highly reactive with water (like its constituent elements) and may catch fire when exposed to air, so must be handled with special precautions.\n\nNaK containing 40% to 90% potassium by weight is liquid at room temperature. The eutectic mixture consists of 77% potassium and 23% sodium, is liquid from , and has a density of 866 kg/m at and 855 kg/m at , making it less dense than water. It is highly reactive with water and is stored usually under hexane or other hydrocarbons, or under an inert gas (usually dry nitrogen or argon) if high purity and low levels of oxidation are required.\n\nWhen stored in air, it forms a yellow potassium superoxide coating and may ignite. This superoxide reacts explosively with water and organics. NaK is not dense enough to sink in most hydrocarbons, but will sink in lighter mineral oil. It is unsafe to store in this manner if the superoxide has formed. A large explosion took place at the Oak Ridge Y-12 facility on December 8, 1999, when NaK cleaned up after an accidental spill and inappropriately treated with mineral oil was scratched with a metal tool. The liquid alloy also attacks PTFE (\"Teflon\").\n\nNaK has a very high surface tension, which makes large amounts of it pull into a bun-like shape. Its specific heat capacity is , which is roughly one quarter of that for water, but heat transfer is higher over a temperature gradient due to higher thermal conductivity.\n\nMetropolis Monte Carlo simulations indicate an amorphous solid may form at the eutectic concentration below a temperature range of 140 K to 170 K with rapid cooling \n\nNaK has been used as the coolant in experimental fast neutron nuclear reactors. Unlike commercial plants, these are frequently shut down and defuelled. Use of lead or pure sodium, the other materials used in practical reactors, would require continual heating to maintain the coolant as a liquid. Use of NaK overcomes this. The Dounreay Fast Reactor is an example.\n\nThe Soviet RORSAT radar satellites were powered by a BES-5 reactor, which was cooled with NaK. In addition to the wide liquid temperature range, NaK has a very low vapor pressure, which is important in the vacuum of space.\n\nAn unintended consequence of the usage as a coolant on orbiting satellites has been the creation of additional space debris. NaK coolant has leaked from a number of satellites, including Kosmos 1818 and Kosmos 1867. The coolant self-forms into frozen droplets of solid sodium-potassium of up to several centimeters in size. These solid objects are a source of space debris.\n\nThe Danamics LMX Superleggera CPU cooler uses NaK to transport heat from the CPU to its cooling fins.\n\nSodium-potassium alloys are used as desiccants in drying solvents prior to distillation, although they are inferior to molecular sieves.\n\nNaK-77, a eutectic alloy of sodium-potassium, can be used as a hydraulic fluid in high-temperature and high-radiation environments, for temperature ranges of . Its bulk modulus at is 310,000 psi (2.14 GPa), higher than of a hydraulic oil at room temperature. Its lubricity is poor, so positive-displacement pumps are unsuitable and centrifugal pumps have to be used. Addition of caesium shifts the useful temperature range to . NaK-77 alloy was tested in hydraulic and fluidic systems for the Supersonic Low Altitude Missile.\n\nIndustrially, NaK is produced in a reactive distillation. In this continuous process, a distillation column is fed with potassium chloride and sodium. In the reaction zone, potassium chloride reacts with sodium to form sodium chloride and potassium. The lighter-boiling potassium is enriched in an upper fractionating zone and drawn at the column head while molten sodium chloride is withdrawn from the bottom.\n\n"}
{"id": "56376606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56376606", "title": "TAPPS2", "text": "TAPPS2\n\nTAPPS2 (Technische Alternative Planungs- und Programmier-System) is a tool used for developing software for solar thermal controllers by Austrian manufacurer Technische Alternative. Its primary usecase is defining the exact reaction of the controller to a certain event. Other than its predecessor, TAPPS, which could only be used to program controllers of type UVR1611, TAPPS2 can also be used to program type UVR16x2 controllers, as well as several control modules.\n\nDevelopment in TAPPS2 is done on a vector-based drawing surface using components that can be placed via drag and drop. The components, which can be separated into inputs, functions and outputs are then being connected according to their individual features. Available components vary according to the current solar thermal control unit.\n\n"}
{"id": "8077803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8077803", "title": "Tonite (explosive)", "text": "Tonite (explosive)\n\nTonite is an explosive sometimes used in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. It consists of a mixture of equal weights of barium nitrate and guncotton. \nAccording to \"Nitro-Explosives: A Practical Treatise\" by P. Gerald Sanford (available via Project Gutenberg): \"The products of perfectly detonated gun-cotton may be expressed by the following equation: 2CHO(NO) = 18CO + 6CO + 14HO + 12N. It does not therefore contain sufficient oxygen for the complete combustion of its carbon.\"\nThe production of carbon monoxide is dangerous in mining operations in particular, so additional oxygen is provided by mixing a nitrate compound with the guncotton. Various nitrates have been used (nitre, potassium nitrate, barium nitrate, ammonium nitrate).\nThe explosive was patented by Messrs Trench, Faure, and Mackie.\nThe high gas pressures generated by detonation of Tonite resulted in it being used as a bursting charge for some early hand grenades used in World War I.\nIts name was taken from the Latin verb \"tonat\" = \"it thunders\", and is pronounced \"toe-nite\" and not as \"tonight\".\n"}
{"id": "36674245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36674245", "title": "United Arab Airlines Flight 749", "text": "United Arab Airlines Flight 749\n\nUnited Arab Airlines Flight 749 was a scheduled international passenger flight on 18 March 1966 that crashed while attempting to land in Cairo, Egypt. All thirty passengers and crew on board were killed.\n\nFlight 749 took off from Nicosia Airport bound for Cairo International Airport. En route, the aircraft encountered bad weather and conditions were poor in Cairo due to the presence of sandstorms. The crew of Flight 749 contacted Mirsair's Operations about diversion options. The flight crew also reported they were flying through thunderstorms with icing conditions, that two of the aircraft's altimeters were giving different readings, the magnetic compass being unserviceable, and that there was a crack in a cockpit window panel due to the thunderstorms. After diverting was discussed, Flight 749 continued to Cairo. The flight was cleared for a Runway 23 approach but crashed approximately 5 kilometres from it. Everyone on board Flight 749 perished in the accident.\n\nAfter the crash, the sandstorm hampered rescue operations. Visibility was near zero and rescue vehicles became bogged down in the drifting sands. \n\nAmong those killed in the crash was Yemen's Agriculture Minister, Ali Mohammad Abdou.\n\nAccident investigators determined that \"the accident arose from the descent of the aircraft below the safe flight altitude in the final approach and the impact of the port wing against the sand dunes lying to the northeast of the aerodrome. As a result the pilot lost control of his aircraft and hit the ground.\n\nIt is probable that the cause of descent of the aircraft below the safe level was due to the change from IFR to VFR, taking into consideration that considerable time would have been needed for the pilot to have adapted to this change in the prevailing weather conditions.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8546244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8546244", "title": "Wet scrubber", "text": "Wet scrubber\n\nThe term wet scrubber describes a variety of devices that remove pollutants from a furnace flue gas or from other gas streams. In a wet scrubber, the polluted gas stream is brought into contact with the scrubbing liquid, by spraying it with the liquid, by forcing it through a pool of liquid, or by some other contact method, so as to remove the pollutants.\n\nThe design of wet scrubbers or any air pollution control device depends on the industrial process conditions and the nature of the air pollutants involved. Inlet gas characteristics and dust properties (if particles are present) are of primary importance. Scrubbers can be designed to collect particulate matter and/or gaseous pollutants. The versatility of wet scrubbers allow them to be built in numerous configurations, all designed to provide good contact between the liquid and polluted gas stream.\n\nWet scrubbers remove dust particles by \"capturing\" them in liquid droplets. The droplets are then collected, the liquid \"dissolving\" or \"absorbing\" the pollutant gases. Any droplets that are in the scrubber inlet gas must be separated from the outlet gas stream by means of another device referred to as a mist eliminator or entrainment separator (these terms are interchangeable). Also, the resultant scrubbing liquid must be treated prior to any ultimate discharge or being reused in the plant.\n\nA wet scrubber's ability to collect small particles is often directly proportional to the power input into the scrubber. Low energy devices such as spray towers are used to collect particles larger than 5 micrometers. To obtain high efficiency removal of 1 micrometer (or less) particles generally requires high-energy devices such as venturi scrubbers or augmented devices such as condensation scrubbers. Additionally, a properly designed and operated entrainment separator or mist eliminator is important to achieve high removal efficiencies. The greater the number of liquid droplets that are not captured by the mist eliminator, the higher the potential emission levels.\n\nWet scrubbers that remove gaseous pollutants are referred to as \"absorbers\". Good gas-to-liquid contact is essential to obtain high removal efficiencies in absorbers. Various wet-scrubber designs are used to remove gaseous pollutants, with the packed tower and the plate tower being the most common.\n\nIf the gas stream contains both particulate matter and gases, wet scrubbers are generally the only single air pollution control device that can remove both pollutants. Wet scrubbers can achieve high removal efficiencies for either particles or gases and, in some instances, can achieve a high removal efficiency for both pollutants in the same system. However, in many cases, the best operating conditions for particles collection are the poorest for gas removal.\n\nIn general, obtaining high simultaneous gas and particulate removal efficiencies requires that one of them be easily collected (i.e., that the gases are very soluble in the liquid or that the particles are large and readily captured), or by the use of a scrubbing reagent such as lime or sodium hydroxide.\n\nFor particulate control, wet scrubbers (also referred to as wet collectors) are evaluated against fabric filters and electrostatic precipitators (ESPs). Some \"advantages\" of wet scrubbers over these devices are as follows:\n\n\nSome \"disadvantages\" of wet scrubbers include corrosion, the need for entrainment separation or mist removal to obtain high efficiencies and the need for treatment or reuse of spent liquid.\n\nWet scrubbers have been used in a variety of industries such as acid plants, fertilizer plants, steel mills, asphalt plants, and large power plants.\n\nWet Scrubber Repairs\n\nVarious factors in addition to time and use can cause a chemical or particulate scrubber to degrade and operate less efficiently. Unfortunately, if your equipment is not working properly, your operations could be negatively affected, and because of this, it is extremely important to conduct scrubber repairs, retrofits and upgrades as soon as they are needed. Here are the most common issues for wet scrubbers:\n\nWet scrubber systems generally consist of the following components:\n\n\nA typical wet scrubbing process can be described as follows:\n\n\nSince wet scrubbers vary greatly in complexity and method of operation, devising categories into which all of them neatly fit is extremely difficult. Scrubbers for particle collection are usually categorized by the gas-side pressure drop of the system. Gas-side pressure drop refers to the pressure difference, or pressure drop, that occurs as the exhaust gas is pushed or pulled through the scrubber, disregarding the pressure that would be used for pumping or spraying the liquid into the scrubber.\n\nScrubbers may be classified \"by pressure drop\" as follows:\n\n\nHowever, most scrubbers operate over a wide range of pressure drops, depending on their specific application, thereby making this type of categorization difficult.\n\nAnother way to classify wet scrubbers is by their \"use\" - to primarily collect either particulates or gaseous pollutants. Again, this distinction is not always clear since scrubbers can often be used to remove both types of pollutants.\n\nWet scrubbers can also be categorized by the manner in which the gas and liquid phases are brought into contact. Scrubbers are designed to use power, or energy, from the gas stream or the liquid stream, or some other method to bring the pollutant gas stream into contact with the liquid. These categories are given in Table 2.\n\nCorrosion can be a prime problem associated with chemical industry scrubbing systems. Fibre-reinforced plastic and dual keys are often used as most dependable materials of construction.\n"}
{"id": "42240900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42240900", "title": "Østerild Wind Turbine Test Field", "text": "Østerild Wind Turbine Test Field\n\nØsterild Wind Turbine Test Field is a facility managed by the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) for testing of wind turbines with a pinnacle height up to near Thisted-Østerild, Denmark.\n\nThe area was plagued by flying sand from about 1450, and a plantation was started from 1889 to keep the sand in check.\n\nThe international IEC 61400 standard specifies how to design and validate wind turbines to gain commercial value. A suitable area for testing wind turbines must have good wind, a specific surface roughness, a clear area around the site, and not be in an EU Special Protection Area. After investigating 17 areas and drawing criticism, the Folketing decided in June 2010 to establish a wind turbine test center at Østerild. It was inaugurated in 2012, and is popular among tourists. A visitor center opened in 2017.\n\nNew ponds and open areas have improved conditions for bats. The first sea eagles came to the area in 2015.\n\nThere are 7 test stands, and each test stand has its own meteorological mast due west. Some stands were not yet put in use in 2015. In 2016, the wind turbine industry requested more stands to fulfill future test requirements. The turbines are not permanent, but spend some months in test at the site before being replaced by the next turbines.\n\nAt the northern and the southern end of the test field, there are two 250 metre tall guyed masts equipped with lamps to warn aircraft.\n\nThe masts are situated at and at .\n\nTest sites as of December 2015 :\n\n\n"}
