{"id": "21603239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21603239", "title": "121st IOC Session", "text": "121st IOC Session\n\nThe 121st International Olympic Committee (IOC) Session was held on October 1–9, 2009 in Copenhagen, Denmark, during which Rio de Janeiro was selected as the host city of the 2016 Summer Olympics. The city of Copenhagen was chosen on February 8, 2006 by the 118th IOC Session held in Turin, Italy to stage the 13th Olympic Congress, together with the meetings of the Executive Board and the 121st IOC Session. The other candidates were Athens (Greece), Busan (South Korea), Cairo (Egypt), Riga (Latvia), Singapore (Singapore), Taipei (Chinese Taipei). Convened on the initiative of President Jacques Rogge, the 13th Olympic Congress brought together all the constituent parties of the Olympic Movement to study and discuss the current functioning of the Movement and define the main development axes for the future.\n\nThe programme for the meeting was:\n\nOn October 2, 2009, the IOC voted to elect the host city of the 2016 Summer Olympics. Rio de Janeiro was elected host city after three rounds of voting. This was Rio's fourth bid for the Olympic Games.\n\n\nThe Session decided to add Rugby Sevens and Golf to the Rio 2016 program. The tally for rugby was 81 in favor, with 8 against, and golf was approved 63–26. Neither sport is new to the Olympics — rugby was last featured at the Olympics in 1924, and golf in 1904.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28271838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28271838", "title": "13th Flying Broom International Women's Film Festival", "text": "13th Flying Broom International Women's Film Festival\n\nThe 13th Flying Broom International Women's Film Festival () was a film festival held in Ankara, Turkey, which ran from May 6 to 13, 2010.\n\nThis edition of the Flying Broom International Women's Film Festival, which was founded in 1997 and is organized by Flying Broom with support from the Çankaya municipality in Ankara and accredited by FIPRESCI, had the theme of \"evil\" and focused on the problems of women (including prostitutes, migrant women, poor women and lesbians). The festival opened with a ceremony at the Ankara State Opera and Ballet Hall on May 6, 2010 at which honorary awards were presented to actresses Lale Belkıs and Gülsen Tuncer, and art director Deniz Özen, who attended the special screening of Turkish classic \"Unmade Bed\" () directed by Atıf Yılmaz. Among those also in attendance at the ceremony were actresses Hale Soygazi and Deniz Türkali, director Biket İlhan, film critic Sevin Okyay, German director Almut Getto, and American director Nancy Schwartzman.\n\nMore than 100 films were screened in 13 programmes at the Kızılırmak cinema, the Ankara Goethe Institute and the Ankara University communication faculty during the festival. A short film competition also under the theme \"evil\", whose winners were to be announced at the opening gala, and a program titled \"The Other History\", dedicated to \"ignored identities\", and featuring four recent Turkish documentaries focusing on \"identities that have been subjected to 'evil' by being deliberately alienated and ignored\" were new features of this edition.\n\nThe festival closed with an award ceremony and screening of the winning film at the Kızılırmak cinema on May 13, 2010, at which the FIPRESCI jury, consisting of Ceylan Özçelik, Dominique Martinez and Kirsten Liese, awarded the festivals top prize to \"Home\" directed by Ursula Meier, and bestowed the Young Witch Award upon Damla Sönmez.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41793940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41793940", "title": "2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference", "text": "2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference\n\nThe 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference, COP 21 or CMP 11 was held in Paris, France, from 30 November to 12 December 2015. It was the 21st yearly session of the Conference of the Parties (COP) to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the 11th session of the Meeting of the Parties (CMP) to the 1997 Kyoto Protocol.\n\nThe conference negotiated the Paris Agreement, a global agreement on the reduction of climate change, the text of which represented a consensus of the representatives of the 196 parties attending it. The agreement will enter into force when joined by at least 55 countries which together represent at least 55 percent of global greenhouse emissions. On 22 April 2016 (Earth Day), 174 countries signed the agreement in New York,\n\nAccording to the organizing committee at the outset of the talks, the expected key result was an agreement to set a goal of limiting global warming to \"well below 2 °C\" Celsius compared to pre-industrial levels. The agreement calls for zero net anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions to be reached during the second half of the 21st century. In the adopted version of the Paris Agreement, the parties will also \"pursue efforts to\" limit the temperature increase to 1.5 °C. The 1.5 °C goal will require zero emissions sometime between 2030 and 2050, according to some scientists.\n\nPrior to the conference, 146 national climate panels publicly presented draft national climate contributions (called \"Intended Nationally Determined Contributions\", INDCs). These suggested commitments were estimated to limit global warming to 2.7 degrees Celsius by 2100. For example, the EU suggested INDC is a commitment to a 40 percent reduction in emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. The agreement establishes a \"global stocktake\" which revisits the national goals to \"update and enhance\" them every five years beginning 2023. However, no detailed timetable or country-specific goals for emissions were incorporated into the Paris Agreement – as opposed to the previous Kyoto Protocol.\n\nA number of meetings took place in preparation for COP21, including the Bonn Climate Change Conference, 19 to 23 October 2015, which produced a draft agreement.\n\nAccording to the organizing committee of the summit in Paris, the objective of the 2015 conference was to achieve, for the first time in over 20 years of UN negotiations, a binding and universal agreement on climate, from all the nations of the world.\nPope Francis published an encyclical called \"Laudato si'\" intended, in part, to influence the conference. The encyclical calls for action against climate change. The International Trade Union Confederation has called for the goal to be \"zero carbon, zero poverty\", and its general secretary Sharan Burrow has repeated that there are \"no jobs on a dead planet\".\n\nThe location of UNFCCC talks is rotated by regions throughout United Nations countries. The 2015 conference was held at Le Bourget from 30 November to 11 December 2015.\n\nTo some extent, France served as a model country for delegates attending COP21 because it is one of the few developed countries in the world to decarbonize electricity production and fossil fuel energy while still providing a high standard of living. As of 2012, France generated over 90% of its electricity from zero carbon sources, including nuclear, hydroelectric, and wind.\n\nThe conference took place two weeks after a series of terrorist attacks in central Paris. Security was tightened accordingly, with 30,000 police officers and 285 security checkpoints deployed across the country until after the conference ended.\n\nThe European Union and 195 nations (\"see list in reference\") were the participating parties.\n\nThe overarching goal of the Convention is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to limit the global temperature increase. Since COP 17 this increase is set at above pre-industrial levels. However, Christiana Figueres acknowledged in the closing briefing at the 2012 Doha conference: \"The current pledges under the second commitment period of the Kyoto protocol are clearly not enough to guarantee that the temperature will stay below 2 °C and there is an ever increasing gap between the action of countries and what the science tells us.\"\n\nDuring previous climate negotiations, countries agreed to outline actions they intended to take within a global agreement, by 1 October 2015. These commitments are known as Intended Nationally Determined Contributions or INDCs. Together, the INDCs would reduce global warming from an estimated 4–5 °C (by 2100) to 2.7 °C, and reduce emissions per capita by 9% by 2030, while providing hope in the eyes of the conference organizers for further reductions in the future that would allow meeting a 2 °C target.\n\nThink-tanks such as the World Pensions Council (WPC) argued that the keys to success lay in convincing officials in the U.S. and China, by far the two largest national emitters:\n\"As long as policy makers in Washington and Beijing didn't put all their political capital behind the adoption of ambitious carbon-emission capping targets, the laudable efforts of other G20 governments often remained in the realm of pious wishes. Things changed for the better on 12 November 2014 when President Obama and General Secretary Xi Jinping agreed to limit greenhouse gases emissions.\"\n\nPresident Obama insisted on America's essential role in that regard: \"We've led by example […] from Alaska to the Gulf Coast to the Great Plains [...] we've seen the longest streak of private job creation in our history. We've driven our economic output to all time-highs while driving our carbon pollution down to its lowest level in nearly two decades. And then, with our historic joint announcement with China last year, we showed it was possible to bridge the old divide between developed and developing nations that had stymied global progress for so long […] That was the foundation for success in Paris.\"\n\nOn 12 December 2015, the participating 196 countries agreed, by consensus, to the final global pact, the Paris Agreement, to reduce emissions as part of the method for reducing greenhouse gas. In the 12-page document, the members agreed to reduce their carbon output \"as soon as possible\" and to do their best to keep global warming \"to well below 2 degrees C\". In the course of the debates, island states of the Pacific, the Seychelles, but also the Philippines, their very existence threatened by sea level rise, had strongly voted for setting a goal of 1.5 °C instead of only 2 °C.\nFrance's Foreign Minister, Laurent Fabius, said this \"ambitious and balanced\" plan was an \"historic turning point\" in the goal of reducing global warming. However, some others criticized the fact that significant sections are \"promises\" or aims and not firm commitments by the countries.\n\nThe Agreement will not become binding on its member states until 55 parties who produce over 55% of the world's greenhouse gas have ratified the Agreement. There is doubt whether some countries, especially the United States, will agree to do so, though the United States publicly committed, in a joint Presidential Statement with China, to joining the Agreement in 2016.\n\nEach country that ratifies the agreement will be required to set a target for emission reduction or limitation, called a \"nationally determined contribution,\" or \"NDC,\" but the amount will be voluntary. There will be neither a mechanism to force a country to set a target by a specific date nor enforcement measures if a set target is not met. There will be only a \"name and shame\" system or, as János Pásztor, the U.N. assistant secretary-general on climate change, told CBS News, a \"name and encourage\" plan.\n\nSome analysts have also observed that the stated objectives of the Paris Agreement are implicitly \"predicated upon an assumption – that member states of the United Nations, including high polluters such as China, US, India, Canada, Russia, Indonesia and Australia, which generate more than half the world's greenhouse gas emissions, will somehow drive down their carbon pollution voluntarily and assiduously without any binding enforcement mechanism to measure and control CO emissions at any level from factory to state, and without any specific penalty gradation or fiscal pressure (for example a carbon tax) to discourage bad behaviour.\"\n\nSpeaking at the 5th annual World Pensions Forum held on the sidelines of the COP21 Summit, Earth Institute Director Jeffrey Sachs argued that institutional investors would eventually divest from carbon-reliant firms if they could not react to political and regulatory efforts to halt climate change: \"Every energy company in a pension fund's portfolio needs to be scrutinized from purely a financial view about its future, 'Why is this [a company] we would want to hold over a five- to 20-year period?'... If we continue to hold major energy companies that don't have an answer to a basic financial test, we are just gambling. We have to take a fiduciary responsibility – these are not good bets.\"\n\nSome US policy makers concurred, notably Al Gore, insisting that \"no agreement is perfect, and this one must be strengthened over time, but groups across every sector of society will now begin to reduce dangerous carbon pollution through the framework of this agreement.\"\n\nAs is usual before such major conferences, major NGOs and groups of governments have drafted and published a wide variety of declarations they intend to seek a consensus on, at the Paris conference itself. These include at least the following major efforts:\n\nThe conference was budgeted to cost €170m (US$186.87m at the time). The French government said that 20% of the cost would be borne by French firms such as EDF, Engie (formerly known as GDF Suez), Air France, Renault-Nissan and BNP Paribas.\n\nAround the world, 600,000 took part in demonstrations in favour of a strong agreement, such as the Global Climate March organized by 350.org (and other events such as Alternatiba, Village of Alternatives). Paris had a ban on public gatherings in the wake of recent terrorist attacks (state of emergency), but allowed thousands to demonstrate on 12 December against what they felt was a too-weak treaty. There was also an illegal demonstration in Paris, including violent clashes between police and anarchists, ten policemen were injured and 317 people arrested.\n\n"}
{"id": "59166830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59166830", "title": "2018 World Junior Table Tennis Championships", "text": "2018 World Junior Table Tennis Championships\n\nThe 2018 World Junior Table Tennis Championships will be held in Bendigo, Australia from 2 to 9 December.\n\n"}
{"id": "23809451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23809451", "title": "36th Primetime Emmy Awards", "text": "36th Primetime Emmy Awards\n\nThe 36th Primetime Emmy Awards were held on September 23, 1984. The ceremony was broadcast on CBS, from the Pasadena Civic Auditorium, Pasadena, California.\n\nThe top shows of the night were \"Cheers\" and \"Hill Street Blues\". \"Cheers\" won its second straight Emmy for Outstanding Comedy Series, while \"Hill Street Blues\" made history. It became the first show to win the Emmy for Outstanding Drama Series four consecutive years. This record still stands today, but has been tied twice, by \"The West Wing\" and \"Mad Men\". \"Hill Street Blues\" also added to another streak. It received at least 14 major nominations for the fourth straight year, winning four. \"Cheers\" received the most nominations on the comedy side (10), winning three.\n\nSir Laurence Olivier won the last of his five career Emmys this evening. His win was also the last time a non-Network Syndicated performance won an Acting Award.\n\n<ref name=\"Winners/Nominees\">Emmys.com list of 1984 Nominees & Winners</ref>\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24329941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24329941", "title": "Aftermath of the Winter War", "text": "Aftermath of the Winter War\n\nThe Aftermath of the Winter War covers historical events and comments after the Winter War between Finland and the Soviet Union from 30 November 1939 to 13 March 1940. The short period after the war and before the next, the Continuation War, is known as the Interim Peace.\n\nThe 105-day war had a profound and depressing effect in Finland. Useful international support was minimal, arrived late, and the German blockade prevented most armament shipments. At the end of the war, the situation of the Finnish army on the Karelian Isthmus had been the subject of some debate. The orders were already given to prepare a retreat to the next line of defence in the Taipale sector. The estimates of how long the enemy could have been held in these kinds of retreat-and-stand operations varied from a few days to a couple of months, most averaging around a few weeks. During the Interim Peace, Karelian local governments, parishes and provincial organizations established Karjalan Liitto, an interest group, in order to defend the rights and interests of Karelian evacuees and to find a solution for returning Karelia.\n\nDuring the period between the war and the perestroika in late 1980s, Soviet historiography leaned solely on Vyacheslav Molotov's speeches on the Winter War. In his radio speech of 29 November 1939, Molotov argued that the Soviet Union had tried for two months to negotiate guarantees of security for Leningrad. However, the Finns had taken a hostile stance to \"please foreign imperialists\". The Finns had undertaken military provocation and the Soviets could no longer hold to nonaggression pacts. According to Molotov, the Soviets did not want to occupy or annex Finland; the goal was purely to secure Leningrad.\n\nAnother source, later used widely in Soviet historiography, was the Molotov speech in front of the Supreme Soviet on 29 March 1940. Molotov blamed Western countries for starting the war and argued that they had used Finland as a proxy to fight the Soviet Union. The Western Allies had furthermore tried to take neutral Sweden and Norway along with them. The main \"villains\" for the Soviets were the United Kingdom and France, but also Sweden, the United States, and Italy, who had issued massive amounts of matériel, money, and numbers of men, to Finland. According to Molotov, the Soviet Union was merciful in peace terms, as the problem of Leningrad security had been solved.\n\nIt is speculated that Stalin had practically wiped out his intelligence apparatus during the purges, thus damaging the effectiveness of spies in Finland and other countries, as well as cowing operatives into writing the kind of reports they thought Stalin wanted to read. Thus, he was not aware of the real situation in Finland and amongst the Allies. Soviet intelligence sources were informing their leadership of Allied plans to intervene in the war, but not of the details or the Allies' actual unpreparedness. Therefore, the Soviets felt forced to seek a premature end to the war before the Allies intervened and declared war on the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1948, Stalin wrote in \"Falsifiers of History\" that \"there could hardly be any doubt that the leading circles of Finland were in league with the Hitlerites and that they wanted to turn Finland into a springboard for Hitler Germany's attack on the U.S.S.R.\" Regarding the start of the war, Stalin also wrote, \"In the war which the Finnish reactionaries started against the Soviet Union, Britain and France rendered the Finnish militarists every kind of assistance. The Anglo-French ruling circles kept inciting the Finnish Government to continue hostilities.\"\n\nNikita Khrushchev, who had been a party leader during the war, remembered later on: \"In our war against the Finns we could choose the location of the war and the date of its start. In number we were superior to the enemy, we had enough time to get ready for the operation. But on these most favourable terms we could only win through huge difficulties and incredibly great losses. In fact this victory was a moral defeat. Our people certainly never got knowledge of it because we never told them the truth.\"\n\nIn 1994, the President of Russia, Boris Yeltsin, denounced the Winter War, agreeing that it was a war of aggression.\n\nThe Winter War was a success for the Germans. Both the Red Army and the League of Nations were humiliated and furthermore, the Allied Supreme War Council had been revealed to be chaotic and powerless. However, the German policy of neutrality was not popular in the homeland and relations with Italy had also suffered badly. After the Peace of Moscow, the Germans did not hesitate to move to improve ties, and within two weeks, Finno-German relations were at the top of the agenda.\n\nDuring the Interim Peace, the Finns gradually moved closer to the Germany to fend of the perceived Soviet aggression and the Soviet interference into the Finnish domestic politics. Later Finland came to perceive the co-operation with Germany as a chance to reclaim areas ceded to the Soviet Union. Two days after the beginning of Operation Barbarossa, Soviet–Finnish hostilities resumed with start of the Continuation War.\n\nThe Winter War put in question the organisation and effectiveness of not only the Red Army, but also that of the Western Allies. The Supreme War Council did not manage its way through the situation, but revealed its total unsuitability to make effective war in either Britain or France. This failure led to the collapse of the Daladier government in France, and later, after the failure in the Norwegian Campaign, the fall of Chamberlain government in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Supreme Military Soviet met in April 1940, sifted through the lessons of the Finnish campaign, and recommended reforms. The role of frontline political commissars was reduced and old-fashioned ranks and forms of discipline were reintroduced. Clothing, equipment and tactics for winter operations were improved. However, not all of these reforms had been completed when the Germans started Operation Barbarossa fourteen months later.\n\nIn summer 1940, the Soviet Union occupied the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. During 1940, the Finns and Swedes successfully negotiated a military alliance, but the negotiations ended once it became clear that both Germany and the Soviet Union opposed such an alliance.\n\nDuring the four months of fighting, the Soviet Army suffered massive losses. One Red Army General, looking at a map of the territory just conquered, is said to have remarked: \"We have won just about enough ground to bury our dead.\" The official Soviet figure, issued just after the war, listed 48,745 dead and 150,863 wounded.\n\nAccording to Nikita Khrushchev, 1.5 million men were sent to Finland and one million of them were killed, while 1,000 aircraft, 2,300 tanks and armored cars and an enormous amount of other war materials were lost. Finland's losses were limited to 25,904 dead or missing and 43,557 wounded.\n\nIn 1990, professor Mikhail Semiryaga used the Red Army Casualty Notifications to publish a book in which he gave exact figures: 53,522 dead, 16,208 missing, 163,772 wounded and 12,064 frostbitten. Meanwhile, professor N. I. Baryshikov estimated 53,500 dead, a figure close to that of Semiryaga. In 1999, the Finnish historian Ohto Manninen estimated Red Army casualties to have been 84,994 dead or prisoners, 186,584 wounded or disabled, 51,892 sick and 9,614 frostbitten. The Russian historian Grigoriy Krivosheyev calculated 126,875 dead and 264,908 wounded. In 1999, the professor of the Petrozavodsk State University Yuri Kilin calculated 63,990 dead, 207,538 wounded and frostbites, making total casualties 271,528, and furthermore 58,390 men were tagged as sick.\n\nThe Winter War was one of the first modern wars of the Red Army before Nazi Germany's Barbarossa in June 1941. In the Soviet Union, the Winter War was called the \"Soviet-Finnish War\", and later the term \"Border Skirmish\" was also used. In different periods the Soviet literature gave different answers for basic questions of the motive of the war, who started the war, whether it could have been avoided, and the result. The most important aspect was the motive.\n\nThe first motive of the war, presented by the Soviets, was to assist the Finnish working-class people against the tyranny of the White Finns. The root was the Finnish Civil War in which thousands of Red Guards were killed, and the many communist leaders were expatriated from Finland to the Soviet Union. The motive did not work as the Finnish working-class stood by its legal government in Helsinki. The Soviets abandoned this motive at the end of the December 1939.\n\nThe new motive was introduced by the Stavka at turn of the year. Now, the protection of Leningrad and North-East of the area was the main motive. During winter 1940 the British and the France planned intervention, which Soviet propaganda used to show that the Western imperialists were willing to use Finland as springboard against the \"Socialist Motherland\". After the Nazi Germany assault against the Soviet Union, the literature changed its course. Now, the main villain of the Winter War was Germany. The Finns had sold their country to Hitler, and for years they had planned the attack against the Soviet Union. Furthermore, the Soviet literature argued that the Mannerheim Line was built on Germany's initiative and using its experts.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the main villain changed again. Now, the United States was the head of an alliance whose other participants were the United Kingdom, France, and Nazi Germany. The Mannerheim Line was given funding from the United Kingdom, France, Sweden, Germany and the United States, and also in years 1938–1939 the Swedish, British and German generals visited and monitored construction work. These multinational contributions demonstrated that Finland was preparing the assault against the Soviet Union with \"any military alliance possible\".\n\nDuring the years of perestroika and glasnost, the Soviet historiography began to write new views of its history. Rendition of Winter War studies had its breakthrough when the Soviet historian Mikhail Semiryaga wrote an article for the weekly magazine \"Ogoniok\" in 1989. It was the first time the public read that the Winter War was a real war, not just a conflict, and that the Soviet government had had to deploy a large number of men and amount of matériel. Furthermore, Semiryaga wrote that the Soviets began their troop deployments in the spring of 1939. Later he wrote an article in which he revealed that the goal of the Red Army was not just to secure Leningrad, but to conquer the whole of Finland.\n\nIn the 1990s and 2000s, especially after the Moscow Archives opened, there have been hundreds of articles considering the Winter War. However, only dozens of monographs have been published. Due to the language barrier, most Russian historians have not exploited Finnish writings and sources.\n\nIn the early 1990s there was the beginning of a transition in which old Soviet views were mixed with modern ones. The Soviet diplomat and KGB-agent in Helsinki Viktor Vladimirov wrote \"Kohti talvisotaa\" in 1995, a book in which he admitted that the Shelling of Mainila was a Soviet provocation, but insisted that the Finns had an assault plan against the Soviet Union; that Finland was under German influence; and that the Winter War was necessary to secure the city of Leningrad. In 1998, a group of Finnish-Russian historians published a book called \"Zimnyaya voina 1939–1940\". It was a collection of different historical articles, and the book was published a year earlier in Finnish.\n\nDue to a general economic upturn in the early 2000s, commercial war literature publishing became popular again. Pavel Aptekar wrote \"Tainy finskoi voiny\" in 2000 and \"Sovetsko-finskiye voiny\" in 2004, in which he emphasized the Finnish side and describes the Soviet assault as \"immoral\". In 2003, Pavel Petrov and Viktor Stepakov wrote a 542-page long book called \"Sovetsko-finlandsjaya voina 1939–1940\", in which they negate the myth of a major Nazi-German influence on Finnish foreign policy, and demonstrate that the United Kingdom had a bigger role. However, more \"traditional\" literature has also been published, such as \"Rozdeniye i krah\" by Nikolai Baryshnikov and Vladimir Baryshikov in 2000. The authors revive Soviet views, and for example are not sure which party started the Shelling of Mainila. The book was also published in Finnish by the Johan Beckman Institute.\n\nDuring the age of Finlandization, the Finnish president Urho Kekkonen gave a speech in April 1973 in which he stated that Winter War was unnecessary. This view was received positively in the Kremlin and among the Finnish leftists. Similar opinions were presented by the Swedish prime minister Tage Erlander and Finnish novelist Väinö Linna. Kekkonen's views were objected to as the Winter War was traditionally beyond criticism in Finnish society. However the Continuation War could be criticized openly in the 1970s.\n\nThe 50th anniversary of the Winter War started a new era in 1989. At the same year the film \"Talvisota\" (Winter War) was released which was the most expensive Finnish movie at the time. At the beginning of the 1990s the atmosphere changed. The Soviet Union collapsed and Moscow Archives opened revealing new information about the Winter War. The Finns openly showed their respect for the Finnish soldiers of three wars in 1939–1944; the situation would have been impossible in the 1970s. In the 2004 television programme \"Suuret suomalaiset\" (Great Finns) the Finns voted three World War II persons in the top four: Carl Gustaf Emil Mannerheim (1st), Risto Ryti (2nd), and Adolf Ehrnrooth (4th).\n\nIn the years since the Winter War, there has been speculation surrounding Finnish–Soviet negotiations during 1938 and 1939. Could the Winter War have been avoided, if Finland had agreed to Soviet demands for bases and to conclude the friendship, cooperation and mutual assistance treaty between countries? Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania had agreed to Soviet demands and a year later were occupied and annexed. Could Finland have been an exception?\n\nAccording to the Finnish historian Timo Vihavainen, there are many arguments against these speculations. Stalin trusted only the Red Army, and he used it to consolidate his control of neighbouring countries. Pieces of paper like nonaggression pacts interested him little. Neutrality, when it ran counter to the interests of the Soviet Union, was \"objectively\" its opposite and therefore served the interests of Germany. The Soviet Union accused Finland being under total German influence in 1930s. This has been convincingly shown by Finnish historians to be a myth. The same applies to Finnish public opinion and the press, in which the general attitude towards Germany and Stalin's Soviet Union was overwhelmingly negative.\n\nThere has also been speculation about Soviet intent: did the Soviets really try to occupy all of Finland, or just strategic areas near Leningrad? According to the document approved in 1939 by Zhdanov, Molotov, and Kuusinen, the Finnish political system was meant to be changed after the Soviet occupation by establishing a people's republic and capturing \"enemies of the state\". Marshal Ivan Konev wrote that he was informed of a conversation between Stalin, Kliment Voroshilov, and Ivan Isakov. Stalin said in the beginning of the Winter War: \"We shall have to resettle the Finns... the population of Finland is smaller than that of Leningrad, they can be resettled.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13980425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13980425", "title": "Apple Scrapple Festival", "text": "Apple Scrapple Festival\n\nThe Apple Scrapple Festival is held annually during the second weekend in October in Bridgeville, Delaware. It was first held in 1992.\n\nNotable events include the Ladies' Iron Skillet Toss, the Scrapple Chunkin' Contest, and the Mayor's Scrapple Sling. The name of the festival is derived from two agricultural products which are important to this region, apples and Scrapple. The Apple Scrapple Festival was named one of the top 100 events in North America by the American Bus Association.\n"}
{"id": "12745098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12745098", "title": "Battle of Arrapha", "text": "Battle of Arrapha\n\nBattle of Arrapha took place in 616 BC between the Assyrian forces and the Babylonians.\nBabylonian king Nabopolassar succeeded by driving the Assyrians back to the Little Zab, in doing so capturing many Assyrian prisoners, horses, and chariots.\nThe next year, Cyaxares, king of the Medes, defeated the Assyrians and conquered Arrapha.\n"}
{"id": "290835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290835", "title": "Bernard Kerik", "text": "Bernard Kerik\n\nBernard Bailey Kerik (born September 4, 1955) is an American former police officer, consultant and convicted felon, who served as New York City Police Commissioner from 2000 to 2001, and New York City's Correction Department Commissioner and First Deputy, overseeing the New York City jail system, from 1995 to 2000.\n\nKerik was born in Newark, New Jersey. He served in the United States Army from 1974 to 1977 before working various law enforcement jobs in the United States and abroad. Joining the New York Police Department (NYPD) in 1986, Kerik is most well known for his time at the NYPD and New York City Department of Correction, as he served in commissioner positions for both city agencies. Kerik's tenure as police commissioner included overseeing the police response to the September 11 attacks in 2001.\n\nFollowing the 2003 invasion of Iraq, President George W. Bush appointed Kerik as the interior minister of the Iraqi Coalition Provisional Authority. In 2004, Bush nominated Kerik to be the head of the Department of Homeland Security. However, Kerik soon withdrew his candidacy, explaining that he had employed an illegal immigrant as a nanny. His withdrawal resulted in state and federal investigations as a result of which in 2006 Kerik pleaded guilty in Bronx Supreme Court to two unrelated ethics violations (unclassified misdemeanors) and was ordered to pay $221,000 in fines. Kerik then pleaded guilty in 2009 in the Southern District of New York to eight federal charges, including tax fraud and false statements, and on February 18, 2010, was sentenced to four years in federal prison.\n\nKerik was born in Newark, New Jersey, the son of Patricia Joann (Bailey) and Donald Raymond Kerik Sr. His paternal grandfather emigrated from Russia to a coal-mining town in Pennsylvania and changed his surname from Kapurik to Kerik. Kerik was raised Catholic and grew up in Paterson, New Jersey. He attended Eastside High School in Paterson, and dropped out in 1972. In July 1974, he enlisted in the United States Army and received a General Educational Development (GED) certificate from the State of North Carolina while assigned to Fort Bragg, North Carolina .\n\nAfter leaving the New York City Police Department, he received a B.S. in social theory, social structure and change, from (ESC) Empire State College of the State University of New York in 2002.\n\nFrom 1974 to 1977, Kerik served in the U.S. Army Military Police Corps. He was stationed in Korea as a military police sentry dog handler and to the XVIII Airborne Corps at Fort Bragg in North Carolina, assuming military police duties and teaching hand-to-hand combat to special operations and Special Forces personnel at the John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School.\n\nKerik was honorably discharged from the army in July 1977 and worked briefly for the Interstate Revenue Research Center, Indianapolis, Indiana, as an investigator before joining the Morrison Knudsen Saudi Arabia Consortium (MKSAC) in April 1978, where he was employed as a security officer at the King Khalid Military City in Hafar Al-Batin, Saudi Arabia, for nearly two-and-a-half years. Upon his return, he worked for the Cumberland County, North Carolina sheriff's office, in the patrol division and later for the City–County Bureau of Narcotics.\n\nFrom December 1981 to October 1982 and then July 1984 to July 1986, Kerik worked at the Passaic County sheriff's office, in New Jersey. He served as the department's training officer and commander of the special weapons and operations, and ultimately chief and warden of the Passaic County jail.\n\nKerik worked from 1982 to 1984 as chief of investigations for the security division of the King Faisal Specialist Hospital in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Six members of the hospital security staff, including Kerik, were fired and deported after an investigation in 1984 by the Saudi secret police.\n\nIn July 1986, Kerik joined the New York City Police Department and was assigned to uniformed and plain-clothes duty in the 14th Precinct in Brooklyn and in the Midtown South patrol sector (Times Square). He was later transferred to the narcotics division as an undercover in Harlem, Spanish Harlem, and Washington Heights and was promoted to detective in September 1990. In 1991 he was assigned to the United States Department of Justice, New York Drug Enforcement Task Force, Group T-43 until he was transferred to the Intelligence Division in February 1994, where he worked on the protective detail for then-mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.\n\nIn May 1994, Kerik was appointed to the New York City Department of Correction as the director of the Investigations Division and was later transferred to the commissioner's office as executive assistant to the commissioner, and in January 1995 he was appointed by Mayor Giuliani as the first deputy commissioner of the department.\n\nIn January 1998, Kerik became commissioner of the New York City Department of Correction. As corrections commissioner, he was responsible for an annual budget of $835 million, a civilian and uniformed workforce of 13,000, and 133,000 annual inmate admissions in the department's 16 jails, 15 court detention pens, and four hospital prison wards, including Rikers Island.\n\nHe was credited with the creation of the Total Efficiency Accountability Management System (TEAMS), a management analysis and accountability program that placed as a finalist for the Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government Award, for Innovations in American Government for year 2000. Through TEAMS, the department witnessed historic performance gains in virtually all areas of jail operations as a result of many new initiatives in violence reduction, overtime reduction, modernization of security equipment, an absence rate analysis program, and others.\n\nDuring his tenure, the department developed a Gang intelligence unit and gang tracking database, networking with local, state, and federal authorities across the country. Inmate violence—defined as inmate-on-inmate stabbing and slashing incidents—were reduced by 93 percent from FY 1995 to FY 1999. Similarly, overtime spending in FY 1999 decreased 45 percent from FY 1995 and the uniform sick rate dropped for the same period by 25 percent. These achievements occurred during a period when the inmate population rose to record levels, from 110,410 admissions in FY 1994 to 133,000 in FY 1999, a 25 percent increase.\n\nIn December 1997, he was also appointed by the mayor to the New York City Gambling Control Commission.\n\nGiuliani appointed Kerik the 40th Police Commissioner of New York City on August 21, 2000.\n\nGiuliani gave much of the credit for a drop in 2001 crime to Kerik, saying that \"Commissioner Kerik took over a police department that was leading the country in crime declines, and somehow he was able to figure out how to create even more crime reduction and to do that against a national trend in which crime is going up in much of the rest of the country.\" Known in the department as the \"beat-cop commissioner,\" Kerik frequently cruised the city at night with a security detail composed of cops who had been in shootouts, dangled from rooftops, hit by bullets, raced into burning buildings, and seen their partners die. During his time as police commissioner he made five arrests, including one involving two ex-convicts—one a paroled killer, wanted for a carjacking at gunpoint in Virginia—for allegedly driving a stolen van in Harlem. As police commissioner, Kerik served on the terrorism committee with the International Association of Chiefs of Police and the Criminal Justice Advisory Board for St. John's University.\n\nKerik was serving as police commissioner during the September 11 attacks. He was in his office when American Airlines Flight 11 hit the North Tower. He arrived at the base of the North Tower three minutes before United Airlines Flight 175 hit the South Tower, showering him and his staff with debris as Giuliani, Kerik, and their top aides were trapped inside a building at 75 Barclay Street. Kerik served 16 months as commissioner, leaving office at the end of Giuliani's term on December 31, 2001.\n\nFollowing his departure from the New York City Police Department, he was employed by Giuliani Partners, a consulting firm formed by the former mayor of New York, Rudolph Giuliani. He served as a senior vice president at Giuliani Partners and as chief executive officer of Giuliani–Kerik LLC, an affiliate of Giuliani Partners. Kerik resigned from these positions in December 2004. In March 2005 he created The Kerik Group LLC, where he served as chairman until June 2009, consulting in crisis management and risk mitigation, counterterrorism and law enforcement, and jail/prison management strategies. He has served as an adviser and consultant to His Majesty King Abdullah II of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and to President Bharrat Jagdeo of the Republic of Guyana. He has overseen threat and vulnerability assessments for a ruling family in the United Arab Emirates and has also worked on crime reduction and national security strategies in Trinidad & Tobago and Mexico City, Mexico.\n\nIn May 2003, during Operation Iraqi Freedom, Kerik was appointed by the George W. Bush administration as interim Interior Minister of Iraq and senior policy adviser to U.S. presidential envoy to Iraq, Paul Bremer. When Kerik arrived in Iraq the Ministry of Interior did not exist, having collapsed and dissolved during the U.S.–led coalition's invasion of Iraq. Kerik was responsible for restructuring and rebuilding the ministry and all its constituent parts: the national police, intelligence service, and border and customs police, as well as choosing the officials who would take control of these institutions when he left. Prior to Kerik's departure from Iraq on September 2, 2003, more than 35,000 Iraqi police were reinstated, 35 police stations were stood up in Baghdad with several more around the country, the senior deputy interior ministers were appointed, and the newly established governing council appointed the first Iraqi minister of interior, post–Saddam Hussein, Nuri Badran. A United Nations UNODC fact-finding mission report dated May 18, 2003 at the beginning of his term, noted that Kerik's team made \"positive interventions in a number of areas.\"\n\nDuring his tenure as Interior Minister of Iraq Bernard Kerik secretly accepted and failed to report a $250,000 interest free \"loan\" from Israeli billionaire Eitan Wertheimer, a gift later determined to be a bribe for which he was indicted by the US federal government and sentenced to prison. Precisely what Wertheimer expected to receive in return for the money is an open question.\n\nOn December 3, 2004, Kerik was nominated by President Bush to succeed Tom Ridge as United States Secretary of Homeland Security. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales vetted Kerik during that nomination period. But on December 10, after a week of press scrutiny, Kerik withdrew acceptance of the nomination. Kerik stated that he had unknowingly hired an undocumented worker as a nanny and housekeeper. Similar violations of immigration law had previously caused the withdrawal of the nominations of Linda Chavez as secretary of labor by George W. Bush and of Zoë Baird and Kimba Wood for attorney general by President Bill Clinton.\n\nShortly after withdrawing his name from consideration, Kerik became the target of a New York State grand jury investigation by the Bronx District Attorney's Office, and later, the United States Attorney's Office.\n\nAfter an 18-month-long grand jury investigation conducted by the Bronx District Attorney's Office, Kerik pleaded guilty in Bronx Supreme Court on June 30, 2006 to two ethics violations (unclassified misdemeanors). Kerik acknowledged that during the time he was Interior Minister of Iraq, he accepted a $250,000 interest-free \"loan\" from Israeli billionaire Eitan Wertheimer and failed to report it. Kerik first met the billionaire, whose vast holdings include major defense contractors, when Kerik took a four-day trip to Israel less than two weeks before September 11, 2001 to discuss counter-terrorism with Israeli officials.\n\nOn November 8, 2007, Kerik was indicted by a federal grand jury in White Plains, New York on charges of tax fraud, and making false statements to the federal government about the $250,000 he received from Wertheimer. Prosecutors further accused Kerik of receiving about $236,000 from New York real estate mogul Steven C. Witkoff between 2001 and 2003. Some of the New York charges were dropped in December 2008, but Kerik was then re-indicted on the same charges in Washington, D.C..\n\nOn November 5, 2009, Kerik pleaded guilty to eight felony tax and false statement charges, and was sentenced to forty-eight months in federal prison and three years' supervised release (probation). Mr. Kerik was represented in the matter by notable NYC Criminal Defense Attorney, Michael F. Bachner. He surrendered to the U.S. minimum security prison camp in Cumberland, Maryland, on May 17, 2010. He was discharged from federal custody on October 15, 2013, after serving five months' home confinement, and his supervised release concluded in October 2016.\n\nKerik earned 30 medals for excellent, meritorious, and heroic service, including the New York City Police Department Medal for Valor for his involvement in a gun battle in which his partner was shot and wounded and he and his team members returned fire, downing the suspect. Other medals included 1 Honorable Mention, 5 Commendations, 10 Meritorious Police Duty, and 13 Excellent Police Duty medals. As a result of his work on and in the aftermath of the September 11 attacks, he was honored by Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II with an honorary appointment as Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (CBE).\n\nKerik has received honorary doctorates from Michigan State University, New York Institute of Technology, Manhattanville College, College of New Rochelle, and Iona College, and he received the President's Medal from Hunter College.\n\nKerik's first child was born in October 1975 when he was 20 and serving in South Korea as a military policeman. In February 1976, Kerik completed his tour of duty in South Korea and left mother and daughter behind. In his autobiography, Kerik called the episode \"a mistake I will always regret, and I pray to God that one day I can make it right.\"\n\nKerik has been married three times. His first marriage was in August 1978; he and his wife were divorced in 1983. Kerik's second marriage lasted from September 1983 to July 1992; the marriage produced a son. Kerik's third marriage took place in 1998, and the couple had two daughters.\n\nIn 2001 Kerik published a memoir, \"The Lost Son: A Life in Pursuit of Justice\", a \"The New York Times\" best-seller.\n\nIn March 2014, Kerik published his second book, \"From Jailer to Jailed: My Journey from Correction and Police Commissioner to Inmate 84888-054\", documenting the 13 prior years of his life including his incarceration and personal observations of the U.S. criminal justice system.\n\nKerik's novel \"The Grave Above the Grave\" was published by Humanix Books in September 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "44523608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44523608", "title": "Bienal de Arte de Ponce", "text": "Bienal de Arte de Ponce\n\nBienal de Arte de Ponce is a bi-annual international art exhibition that takes place in Ponce, Puerto Rico, during the month of November. The event is sponsored by the Commission on the Arts of the University of Puerto Rico at Ponce. It has been called \"the most important art biennial in Puerto Rico.\"\n\nOver 120 artists, including painters and sculptors, showed off their talents during the 14th exposition that took place from 20 November 2014 to 7 February 2015. Styles presented range from realism to abstract to costumbrism and the support media includes canvas, acrylic, glass, wood, metal, India ink, even mixed media and digital art, among others. Presentations are made ranging from watercolors to pencil to oil, among others.\n\nThe event started in 1986. The event takes place at the Biblioteca Adelina Coppin Alvarado Library of the University of Puerto Rico at Ponce. It started as a local arts show to showcase the talent of artists from the city of Ponce and the southern Puerto Rico region, but has grown into a more international exhibition with artists from all over Puerto Rico, the United States and the Dominican Republic. (Note: This event should not be confused with the \"Bienal Municipal de Arte de Ponce\" (Ponce Municipal Art Biennial) which started in 2011, takes place every other year from the Bienal de Arte de Ponce (i,e., 2011, 2013...2019, etc), and is staged by the Ponce Municipal Government.)\n\nSince the seventh exposition in 1998 it is a common practice to dedicate the event to a visual artist. The 13th exposition was dedicated to Roberto Colón Ocasio, director of the Department of Visual Arts at the University and one of the co-founders of the exposition in 1986. The 14th exposition was dedicated to Ana Bassó Bruno, a sculptor and former art professor at the Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Puerto Rico.\n\nThe event has consistently taken place at the Adelina Coppin Alvarado Library of the University of Puerto Rico at Ponce. There, well-known professional artists and art critics evaluate the exposed works based on their own merits, not based on the name of the artist. Some of the critics in the past have included Miguel Conesa Osuna, Jaime Descals, Margarita Sastre de Balmaceda, Luis Larrazál Mejía, Carlos Morell Martel, Pedro Pacheco and Gladys Nieves. Well established artists, such as Wichie Torres, Pedro \"Peyo Tata\" Pacheco, Julián Ruiz, Frankie Soldevila, Luis F. Larrazábal, Norberto Martell, Gladys Nieves, Alberto Ongay, Howard Orsini, Orlando Santiago Torres, as well as beginning artists show off their talents during the exposition.\n\n"}
{"id": "38483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38483", "title": "Carnival", "text": "Carnival\n\nCarnival (see other spellings and names) is a Western Christian and Greek Orthodox festive season that occurs before the liturgical season of Lent. The main events typically occur during February or early March, during the period historically known as Shrovetide (or Pre-Lent). Carnival typically involves public celebrations, including events such as parades, public street parties and other entertainments, combining some elements of a circus. Elaborate costumes and masks allow people to set aside their everyday individuality and experience a heightened sense of social unity. Participants often indulge in excessive consumption of alcohol, meat, and other foods that will be forgone during upcoming Lent. \n\nOther common features of carnival include mock battles such as food fights; expressions of social satire; mockery of authorities; costumes of the grotesque body that display exaggerated features such as large noses, bellies, mouths, phalli, or elements of animal bodies; abusive language and degrading acts; depictions of disease and gleeful death; and a general reversal of everyday rules and norms.\n\nThe term \"Carnival\" is traditionally used in areas with a large Catholic presence, as well as in Greece. The Philippines, a predominantly Roman Catholic country in Asia, also celebrates Carnival (or Mardi Gras). In historically Evangelical Lutheran countries, the celebration is known as Fastelavn, and in areas with a high concentration of Anglicans (Church of England / U.S. Episcopal Church), Methodists, and other Protestants, pre-Lenten celebrations, along with penitential observances, occur on Shrove Tuesday. In Slavic Eastern Orthodox nations, Maslenitsa is celebrated during the last week before Great Lent. In German-speaking Europe and the Netherlands, the Carnival season traditionally opens on 11/11 (often at 11:11 a.m.). This dates back to celebrations before the Advent season or with harvest celebrations of St. Martin's Day.\n\nThe Latin-derived name of the holiday is sometimes also spelled \"Carnaval\", typically in areas where Dutch, German, French, Spanish, and Portuguese are spoken, or \"Carnevale\" in Italian-speaking contexts. Alternative names are used for regional and local celebrations.\n\nThe word is said to come from the Late Latin expression \"carne levare\", which means \"remove meat\"; a folk etymology derives it from \"carne vale\", \"farewell to meat\". In either case, this signifies the approaching fast. The word \"carne\" may also be translated as flesh, producing \"a farewell to the flesh\", a phrase embraced by certain carnival celebrants to embolden the festival's carefree spirit. The etymology of the word \"Carnival\" thus points to a Christian origin of the celebratory period.\n\nOther scholars argue that the origin is the festival of the \"Navigium Isidis\" (\"ship of Isis\"), where the image of Isis was carried to the seashore to bless the start of sailing season. The festival consisted of a parade of masks following an adorned wooden boat, called in Latin \"carrus navalis\", possibly the source of both the name and the parade floats.\n\nThe word \"Carnival\" is of Christian origin, and in the Middle Ages, it referred to a period following Christmastide that reached its climax before midnight on Shrove Tuesday. Because Lent was a period of fasting, \"Carnival therefore represented a last period of feasting and celebration before the spiritual rigors of Lent.\" Meat was plentiful during this part of the Christian calendar and it was consumed during Carnival as people abstained from meat consumption during the following liturgical season, Lent. In the last few days of Carnival, known as Shrovetide, people confessed (shrived) their sins in preparation for Lent as well. In 1605, a Shrovetide play spoke of Christians who painted their faces to celebrate the season: \n\nFrom an anthropological point of view, carnival is a reversal ritual, in which social roles are reversed and norms about desired behavior are suspended.\n\nWinter was thought of as the reign of the winter spirits; these needed to be driven out in order for the summer to return. Carnival can thus be regarded as a rite of passage from darkness to light, from winter to summer: a fertility celebration, the first spring festival of the new year.\n\nTraditionally, a Carnival feast was the last opportunity for common people to eat well, as there was typically a food shortage at the end of the winter as stores ran out. Until spring produce was available, people were limited to the minimum necessary meals during this period. On what nowadays is called \"vastenavond\" (the days before fasting), all the remaining winter stores of lard, butter, and meat which were left would be eaten, for these would otherwise soon start to rot and decay. The selected livestock had already been slaughtered in November and the meat would be no longer preservable. All the food that had survived the winter had to be eaten to assure that everyone was fed enough to survive until the coming spring would provide new food sources.\n\nSeveral Germanic tribes celebrated the returning of the daylight. The winter would be driven out, to make sure that fertility could return in spring. A central figure of this ritual was possibly the fertility goddess Nerthus. Also, there are some indications that the effigy of Nerthus or Freyr was placed on a ship with wheels and accompanied by a procession of people in animal disguise and men in women's clothes. Aboard the ship a marriage would be consummated as a fertility ritual.\n\nTacitus wrote in his \"Germania\": \"Germania 9.6: Ceterum nec cohibere parietibus deos neque in ullam humani oris speciem adsimulare ex magnitudine caelestium arbitrator\" – \"The Germans, however, do not consider it consistent with the grandeur of celestial beings to confine the gods within walls, or to liken them to the form of any human countenance.\" \"Germania 40: mox vehiculum et vestis et, si credere velis, numen ipsum secreto lacu abluitur\" – \"Afterwards the car, the vestments, and, if you like to believe it, the divinity herself, are purified in a secret lake.\"\n\nTraditionally, the feast also was a time to indulge sexual desires, which were supposed to be suppressed during the following period fasting. Before Lent began, all rich food and drink were consumed in what became a giant celebration that involved the whole community, and is thought to be the origin of Carnival.\n\nIn many Christian sermons and texts, the example of a vessel is used to explain Christian doctrine: \"the nave of the church of baptism\", \"the ship of Mary\", etc. The writings show that processions with ship-like carts were held and lavish feasts were celebrated on the eve of Lent or the greeting of spring in the early Middle Ages.\n\nThe Lenten period of the liturgical calendar, the six weeks directly before Easter, was historically marked by fasting, study, and other pious or penitential practices. During Lent, no parties or celebrations were held, and people refrained from eating rich foods, such as meat, dairy, fat, and sugar. The first three classes were often totally unavailable during this period because of late winter shortages.\n\nWhile Christian festivals such as Corpus Christi were Church-sanctioned celebrations, Carnival was also a manifestation of European folk culture. In the Christian tradition, the fasting is to commemorate the 40 days that Jesus fasted in the desert, according to the New Testament, and also to reflect on Christian values. It was a time for catechumens (those converting to Christianity) to prepare for baptism at Easter. \n\nCarnival in the Middle Ages took not just a few days, but almost the entire period between Christmas and the beginning of Lent. In those two months, Christian populations used their several holidays as an outlet for their daily frustrations.\n\nMany synods and councils attempted to set things \"right\". Caesarius of Arles (470–542) protested around 500 CE in his sermons against the pagan practices. Centuries later, his statements were adapted as the building blocks of the \"Indiculus superstitionum et paganiarum\" (\"small index of superstitious and pagan practices\"), which was drafted by the Synod of Leptines in 742. It condemned the \"Spurcalibus en februario\".\n\nPope Gregory the Great (590–604) decided that fasting would start on Ash Wednesday. The whole Carnival event was set before the fasting, to set a clear division between celebrations and penitence. He also dispatched missionaries to sanctify any excesses in popular Carnival customs. It was also the custom during Carnival that the ruling class would be playfully mocked using masks and disguises.\n\nIn the year 743, the synod in Leptines (Leptines is located near Binche in Belgium) spoke out furiously against the excesses in the month of February. Also from the same period dates the phrase: \"Whoever in February by a variety of less honorable acts tries to drive out winter is not a Christian, but a pagan.\" Confession books from around 800 contain more information about how people would dress as an animal or old woman during the festivities in January and February, even though this was a sin with no small penance. Also in Spain, San Isidoro de Sevilla complained in his writings in the seventh century of people coming out into the streets disguised in many cases as the opposite gender.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, \"Carnival and Lent were both necessary, inevitable episodes in the eternal cycle of the Church year.\"\n\nWhile forming an integral part of the Christian calendar, particularly in Catholic regions, many Carnival traditions resemble those antedating Christianity.\n\nWhile medieval pageants and festivals such as Corpus Christi were church-sanctioned, Carnival was also a manifestation of medieval folk culture. Many local Carnival customs are claimed to derive from local pre-Christian rituals, such as elaborate rites involving masked figures in the Swabian-Alemannic Fastnacht. However, evidence is insufficient to establish a direct origin from Saturnalia or other ancient festivals. No complete accounts of Saturnalia survive, and the shared features of feasting, role reversals, temporary social equality, masks, and permitted rule-breaking do not necessarily constitute a coherent festival or link these festivals. These similarities may represent a reservoir of cultural resources that can embody multiple meanings and functions. For example, Easter begins with the resurrection of Jesus, followed by a liminal period, and ends with rebirth. Carnival reverses this as King Carnival comes to life, and a liminal period follows before his death. Both feasts are calculated by the lunar calendar. Both Jesus and King Carnival may be seen as expiatory figures who make a gift to the people with their deaths. In the case of Jesus, the gift is eternal life in heaven, and in the case of King Carnival, the acknowledgement that death is a necessary part of the cycle of life. Besides Christian anti-Judaism, the commonalities between church and Carnival rituals and imagery suggest a common root. Christ's passion is itself grotesque: since early Christianity, Christ is figured as the victim of summary judgment, and is tortured and executed by Romans before a Jewish mob (\"His blood is on us and on our children!\" ). Holy Week processions in Spain include crowds who vociferously insult the figure of Jesus. Irreverence, parody, degradation, and laughter at a tragicomic effigy of God can be seen as intensifications of the sacred order. In 1466, the Catholic Church under Pope Paul II revived customs of the Saturnalia carnival: Jews were forced to race naked through the streets of the city of Rome. \"Before they were to run, the Jews were richly fed, so as to make the race more difficult for them and at the same time more amusing for spectators. They ran… amid Rome's taunting shrieks and peals of laughter, while the Holy Father stood upon a richly ornamented balcony and laughed heartily,\" an eyewitness reports.\n\nSome of the best-known traditions, including carnal parades and masquerade balls, were first recorded in medieval Italy. The Carnival of Venice was, for a long time, the most famous carnival (although Napoleon abolished it in 1797 and only in 1979 was the tradition restored). From Italy, Carnival traditions spread to Spain, Portugal, and France, and from France to New France in North America. From Spain and Portugal, it spread with colonization to the Caribbean and Latin America. In the early 19th century in the German Rhineland and Southern Netherlands, the weakened medieval tradition also revived. Continuously in the 18th and 19th centuries CE, as part of the annual Saturnalia abuse of the carnival in Rome, rabbis of the ghetto were forced to march through the city streets wearing foolish guise, jeered upon and pelted by a variety of missiles from the crowd. A petition of the Jewish community of Rome sent in 1836 to Pope Gregory XVI to stop the annual anti-semitic Saturnalia abuse got a negation: \"It is not opportune to make any innovation.\"\n\nIn the Rhineland in 1823, the first modern Carnival parade took place in Cologne. The upper Rhineland is mostly Reformed, as is most of Northern Germany and Northern Europe. Carnaval (\"Fasching\" or \"Fastnacht\" in Germany) mixed pagan traditions with Christian traditions. Pre-Lenten celebrations featured parades, costumes and masks to endure Lent's withdrawal from worldly pleasures.\n\nOther areas developed their own traditions. In the United Kingdom, West Indian immigrants brought with them the traditions of Caribbean Carnival; however, the Carnivals now celebrated at Notting Hill, Leeds, Yorkshire, and other places became divorced from their religious origin and became secular events that take place in the summer months.\n\nInterpretations of Carnival present it as a social institution that degrades or \"uncrowns\" the higher functions of thought, speech, and the soul by translating them into the grotesque body, which serves to renew society and the world, as a release for impulses that threaten the social order that ultimately reinforces social norms, as a social transformation, or as a tool for different groups to focus attention on conflicts and incongruities by embodying them in \"senseless\" acts.\n\nCarnival was introduced by Portuguese settlers. The celebration is celebrated on each of the archipelago's nine inhabited islands. In Mindelo, São Vicente, groups challenge each other for a yearly prize. It has imported various Brazilian Carnival traditions. The celebration in São Nicolau is more traditional, where established groups parade through the Ribeira Brava, gathering in the town square, although it has adopted drums, floats and costumes from Brazil. In São Nicolau, three groups, Copa Cabana, Estrela Azul, and Brilho Da Zona, construct a painted float using fire, newspaper for the mold, and iron and steel for structure. Carnival São Nicolau is celebrated over three days: dawn Saturday, Sunday afternoon, and Tuesday. The celebrations are captured in the award-winning feature documentary Tchindas, nominated at the 12th Africa Movie Academy Awards.\n\nThe Seychelles carnival began in 2011. It is held in the capital city of Victoria and takes place over three days. On Day 1, the grand opening is held in the city center near the clock tower. The second day is parade day. On Day 3, the closing ceremony is held, and a lottery winner is announced.\n\nThe Harare Carnival is held late in May. Events include fashion and music shows. The climax is a street party featuring costumes and music.\n\nThe Antiguan Carnival is held from the end of July to the first Tuesday in August. The most important day is that of the \"j'ouvert\" (or \"juvé\"), in which brass and steel drum bands perform. Barbuda's Carnival, held in June, is known as \"Caribana\". The Antiguan and Barbudan Carnivals replaced the Old Time Christmas Festival in 1957, with hopes of inspiring tourism.\n\nIn Argentina, the most representative Carnival performed is the so-called Murga, although other famous Carnivals, more like Brazil's, are held in Argentine Mesopotamia and the North-East. Gualeguaychú in the east of Entre Ríos Province is the most important Carnival city and has one of the largest parades. It adopts a musical background similar to Brazilian or Uruguayan Carnival. Corrientes is another city with a Carnival tradition. Chamamé is a popular musical style. In all major cities and many towns throughout the country, Carnival is celebrated.\n\nAs Carnival coincides with summer in the Southern Hemisphere, in many parts of Argentina children play with water. The 19th century tradition of filling empty egg shells with water has evolved into water games that include the throwing of water balloons.\n\nCarnival in Aruba means weeks of events that bring colourfully decorated floats, contagiously throbbing music, luxuriously costumed groups of celebrants of all ages, King and Queen elections, electrifying jump-ups and torchlight parades, the Jouvert morning: the Children's Parades, and finally the Grand Parade. Aruba's biggest celebration is a month-long affair consisting of festive \"jump-ups\" (street parades), spectacular parades, and creative contests. Music and flamboyant costumes play a central role, from the Queen elections to the Grand Parade. Street parades continue in various districts throughout the month, with brass band, steel drum and roadmarch tunes. On the evening before Lent, Carnival ends with the symbolic burning of King Momo.\n\nJunkanoo is the principal street parade in the Bahamas, it has been practiced in the Bahamas before and after the 1834 emancipation of slavery in the British Empire.\n\nIn an effort to capitalize on Carnival's popularity, the Bahamas announced the first Bahamas Junkanoo Carnival to commence in May 2015.\n\nCarnival is known as \"Crop Over\" and is Barbados's biggest festival. Its early beginnings were on the sugar cane plantations during the colonial period. Crop Over began in 1688, and featured singing, dancing, and accompaniment by shak-shak, banjo, triangle, fiddle, guitar, bottles filled with water, and bones. Other traditions included climbing a greased pole, feasting, and drinking competitions. Originally signaling the end of the yearly cane harvest, it evolved into a national festival. In the late 20th century, Crop Over began to closely mirror the Trinidad Carnival. Beginning in June, Crop Over runs until the first Monday in August when it culminates in the finale, the Grand Kadooment.\n\nCarnival time for many islanders is one big party. Craft markets, food tents/stalls, street parties, and cavalcades fill every week.\n\nA major feature is the calypso competition. Calypso music, originating in Trinidad, uses syncopated rhythm and topical lyrics. It offers a medium in which to satirise local politics, amidst the general bacchanal. Calypso tents, also originating in Trinidad, feature cadres of musicians who perform biting social commentaries, political exposés or rousing exhortations to \"wuk dah waistline\" and \"roll dat bumper\". The groups compete for the Calypso Monarch Award, while the air is redolent with the smells of Bajan cooking during the Bridgetown Market Street Fair. The Cohobblopot Festival blends dance, drama, and music with the crowning of the King and Queen of costume bands. Every evening the \"Pic-o-de-Crop\" Show is performed after the King of Calypso is finally crowned. The climax of the festival is Kadooment Day, celebrated with a national holiday, when costume bands fill the streets with pulsating Barbadian rhythms and fireworks.\n\nSan Pedro is one of Belize's few cities to observe Carnaval before Lent. Elsewhere, Carnaval (sometimes referred to as Carnival) often occurs in September. The Fiesta de Carnaval is often the most popular celebration, usually held over three days prior to Ash Wednesday, but the festivities often extend to the full week. This festival \"always includes music, dancing, costumes and parades.\"\n\nComparsas are held throughout the week, consisting of large groups \"of dancers dancing and traveling on the streets, followed by a Carrosa (carriage) where the musicians play. The Comparsa is a development of African processions where groups of devotees follow a given saint or deity during a particular religious celebration.\" One of the most popular comparsas of Fiesta de Carnaval is the male group comparsa, usually composed of notable men from the community who dress up in outlandish costumes or cross-dress and dance to compete for money and prizes. Other popular activities include body painting and flour fighting. \"On the last day of Carnival painters flood the street to paint each other. This simply means that a mixture of water paint and water or raw eggs is used to paint people on the streets, the goal being to paint as many people as you can.\"\n\nStreet fights often occur during the festivities - some locals treat this festival as an opportunity to exact revenge on their enemies. Vandalism is common and \"businesses constantly have to prepare in covering or repainting their advertisements during Carnival season because of the mischief performed.\" The tradition continues despite critics who advocate the termination of these festivities.\n\n\"La Diablada\" Carnival takes place in Oruro in central Bolivia. It is celebrated in honor of the miners' patron saint, \"Vírgen de Socavon\" (the Virgin of the Tunnels). Over 50 parade groups dance, sing, and play music over a five kilometre-long course. Participants dress up as demons, devils, angels, Incas, and Spanish conquistadors. Dances include caporales and tinkus. The parade runs from morning until late at night, 18 hours a day, for three days before Ash Wednesday. It was declared the 2001 \"Masterpieces of Oral Heritage and Intangible Heritage of Humanity\" by UNESCO. Throughout the country, celebrations are held involving traditional rhythms and water parties. In Santa Cruz de la Sierra, on the east side of the country, tropical weather allows a Brazilian-type Carnival, with Comparsas dancing traditional songs in matching uniforms.\n\nThe Carnival in Brazil is a major part of Brazilian culture. It is sometimes referred to by Brazilians as the \"Greatest Show on Earth\". The first true Carnival expression of this Brazilian festivity, officially recognized by Brazilian historians, took place in Rio de Janeiro, with the \"préstitos\", very similar to a musical processions, in 1641, when John IV of Portugal was crowned King and parties were celebrated in public streets.\n\nThe street carnival of Rio de Janeiro is designated by \"Guinness World Records\" as the largest carnival in the world, with approximately two million people each day.\n\nSamba schools are large, social entities with thousands of members and a theme for their song and parade each year. In Rio Carnival, samba schools parade in the Sambadrome (\"sambódromo\" in Portuguese). Some of the most famous include GRES Estação Primeira de Mangueira, GRES Portela, GRES Imperatriz Leopoldinense, GRES Beija-Flor de Nilópolis, GRES Mocidade Independente de Padre Miguel, and recently, Unidos da Tijuca and GRES União da Ilha do Governador. Local tourists pay $500–950, depending on the costume, to buy a samba costume and dance in the parade. \"Blocos\" are small informal groups with a definite theme in their samba, usually satirizing the political situation. About 30 schools in Rio gather hundreds of thousands of participants. More than 440 \"blocos\" operate in Rio. \"Bandas\" are samba musical bands, also called \"street carnival bands\", usually formed within a single neighborhood or musical background. The Carnival industry chain amassed in 2012 almost US$1 billion in revenues.\n\nRecife is marked by the parade of the largest carnival block in the world, the Galo da Madrugada. This parade happens on the first Saturday of Carnival (Saturday of Zé Pereira), passes through the center of the city of Recife and has, as symbol, a giant cock that is positioned in the Duarte Coelho Bridge. In this block, there is a great variety of musical rhythms, but the most present is Frevo (characteristic rhythm of both Recife and Olinda that was declared Intangible Heritage of Humanity by Unesco).\n\nSalvador has large Carnival celebrations, including the Axé, a typical Bahia music. A truck with giant speakers and a platform, where musicians play songs of local genres such as Axé, samba-reggae, and Arrocha, drives through town with a crowd following while dancing and singing. It was originally staged by two Salvador musicians, Dodo & Osmar, in the 1950s. After the Salvador Carnival, Porto Seguro continues the celebration.\n\nThree circuits make up the festival. Campo Grande is the longest and most traditional. Barra-Ondina is the most famous, on the seaside of Barra Beach and Ondina Beach and Pelourinho.\n\nInternational singers like David Guetta, will.i.am, Psy, and Bob Sinclar have performed in Salvador. Ivete Sangalo, Claudia Leitte, Daniela Mercury, Margareth Menezes, Chiclete com Banana, and Banda Eva are some traditional attractions. The party officially takes six days, but can continue for more than that.\n\nCaribana, held in Toronto on the first weekend of August, has its origins in Caribbean Carnival traditions. To take advantage of more comfortable weather, Caribana is held in the summer. Attendance at the parade typically exceeds one million.\n\nThe Quebec Winter Carnival is the biggest winter-themed Carnival in the world. It depends on snowfall and very cold weather, to keep snowy ski trails in good condition and ice sculptures frozen. The carnival is held during the last days of January and first days of February.\n\nIn the Ottawa-Gatineau region, Winterlude takes place during February.\n\nMost Caribbean islands celebrate Carnival. The largest and most well-known is in Trinidad and Tobago. Antigua, Aruba, Barbados, Bonaire, Cayman Islands, Cuba, Curaçao, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Saba, Sint Eustatius (Statia), Sint Maarten, Saint Lucia, Saint Kitts, Saint Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands, Saint Vincent, and the Grenadines hold lengthy carnival seasons and large celebrations.\n\nCarnival is an important cultural event in the Dutch Caribbean. Festivities include \"jump-up\" parades with beautifully colored costumes, floats, and live bands, as well as beauty contests and other competitions. Celebrations include a middle-of-the-night j'ouvert (\"juvé\") parade that ends at sunrise with the burning of a straw King Momo, cleansing sins and bad luck. On Statia, he is called Prince Stupid.\n\nCarnival has been celebrated in Cuba since the 18th century. Participants don costumes from the island's cultural and ethnic variety. After Fidel Castro's Communist Revolution, Carnival's religious overtones were suppressed. The events remained, albeit frowned upon by the state. Carnival celebrations have been in decline throughout Cuba since then.\n\nCarnival was introduced by the Spaniards and incorporated elements from European cultures. It has managed to reinterpret traditions that belonged to Colombia's African and Amerindian cultures. Documentary evidence shows that Carnival existed in Colombia in the 18th century and had already been a cause for concern for colonial authorities, who censored the celebrations, especially in the main political centres such as Cartagena, Bogotá, and Popayán.\n\nThe Carnival continued its evolution in small/unimportant towns out of view of the rulers. The result was the uninterrupted celebration of Carnival festivals in Barranquilla (see Barranquilla's Carnival), now recognized as one of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity. The Barranquilla Carnival includes several parades on Friday and Saturday nights beginning on 11 January and ending with a six-day non-stop festival, beginning the Wednesday prior to Ash Wednesday and ending Tuesday midnight. Other celebrations occur in villages along the lower Magdalena River in northern Colombia, and in Pasto and Nariño (see Blacks and Whites' Carnival) in the south of the country. In the early 20th century, attempts to introduce Carnival in Bogotá were rejected by the government. The Bogotá Carnival was renewed in the 21st century.\n\nCarnival in Dominica is held in the capital city of Roseau, and takes elements of Carnival that can be seen in the neighbouring French islands of Martinique and Guadeloupe, as well as Trinidad. Notable events leading up to Carnival include the Opening of Carnival celebrations, the Calypso Monarch music competition, the Queen of Carnival Beauty Pageant, and bouyon music bands. Celebrations last for the Monday and Tuesday before Ash Wednesday.\n\nDominican Carnival is celebrated in most cities and towns in the main streets during February. Among its main characteristics are its flashy costumes and loud music. The one held in La Vega, which is one of the biggest in the country, and the national parade in Santo Domingo were where the first Carnival of the Americas was held.\n\nCarvnival masks are elaborate and colorful. The costumes used on the parades are satires of the Devil and are called \"Diablos Cojuelos\". They dance, and run to the rhythm of merengue music mixed with techno, hip-hop, and reggaeton. Additional allegorical characters represent Dominican traditions such as \"Roba la Gallina\" and \"Califé\".\n\nOne of the most international parades is in San Pedro de Macorís. It exhibits the \"Guloyas\" parade of costumed groups dancing in the streets. Revelers flee from the \"Diablos Cojuelos\" who try to hit them with \"Vejigas\".\n\nThe timing of the festivals has grown apart from its original religious synchronization with the period of Lent. With National Independence Day on 27 February and the birthday of Juan Pablo Duarte, its founding father, on 26 January, the Carnival celebrations fill February regardless of the Lenten calendar.\n\nIn Ecuador, the celebrations began before the arrival of Catholicism. The Huarangas Indians (from the Chimbos nation) used to celebrate the second moon of the year with a festival at which they threw flour, flowers, and perfumed water. This indigenous tradition merged with the Catholic celebration of Carnival.\n\nA common feature of Ecuadorian Carnival is the \"diablitos\" (little devils) who play with water. As with snowball fights, the practice of throwing or dumping water on unsuspecting victims is revered by children and teenagers although feared by some adults. Throwing water balloons, sometimes even eggs and flour both to friends and strangers is fun, but can also upset the uninformed.\n\nAlthough the government as well as school authorities forbid such games, they are widely practiced. Historians tell of a bishop in 1867 who threatened excommunication for the sin of playing Carnival games.\n\nFestivals differ across the country. Locals wear disguises with colorful masks and dance. Usually, the celebrations begin with the election of \"Taita Carnival\" (Father Carnival) who heads the festivities and leads the parades in each city.\n\nThe most famed Carnival festivities are in Guaranda (Bolivar province) and Ambato (Tungurahua province). In Ambato, the festivities are called \"Fiesta de las Flores y las Frutas\" (Festival of the Flowers and Fruits). Other cities have revived Carnival traditions with colorful parades, such as in Azogues (Cañar Province). In Azogues and the Southern Andes in general, \"Taita Carnival\" is always an indigenous Cañari. Recently, a celebration has gained prominence in the northern part of the Andes in the Chota Valley in Imbabura which is a zone of a strong Afro-Ecuadorian population and so the Carnival is celebrated with bomba del chota music.\n\nLatacunga celebrates Carnival in three manners: Carnival with water where people play with water, religious Carnival where people make religious festivity, and Carnival parade in the city in which people march on the Latacunga streets wearing masks while they dance with music bands.\n\nThe Carnival of French Guiana has roots in Creole culture. Everyone participates – mainland French, Brazilians (Guiana has a frontier with Brazil), and Chinese as well as Creoles.\n\nIts duration is variable, determined by movable religious festivals: Carnival begins at Epiphany and ends on Ash Wednesday, and so typically lasts through most of January and February. During this period, from Friday evening until Monday morning the entire country throbs to the rhythm of masked balls and street parades.\n\nFriday afternoons are for eating \"galette des rois\" (the cake of kings) and drinking champagne. The cake may be flavoured with frangipani, guava, or coconut.\n\nOn Sunday afternoons, major parades fill the streets of Cayenne, Kourou, and Saint-Laurent du Maroni. Competing groups prepare for months. Dressed to follow the year's agreed theme, they march with Carnival floats, drums, and brass bands.\n\nBrazilian groups are appreciated for their elaborate feathered and sequined costumes. However, they are not eligible for competition since the costumes do not change over time.\n\nMythical characters appear regularly in the parades:\nA uniquely Creole tradition are the \"touloulous\". These women wear decorative gowns, gloves, masks, and headdresses that cover them completely, making them unrecognisable, even to the colour of their skin. On Friday and Saturday nights of Carnival, touloulou balls are held in so-called \"universities\", large dance halls that open only at Carnival time. Touloulous get in free, and are even given condoms in the interest of the sexual health of the community. Men attend the balls, but they pay admittance and are not disguised. The touloulous pick their dance partners, who may not refuse. The setup is designed to make it easy for a woman to create a temporary liaison with a man in total anonymity. Undisguised women are not welcomed. By tradition, if such a woman gets up to dance, the orchestra stops playing. Alcohol is served at bars – the disguised women whisper to the men \"touloulou thirsty\", at which a round of drinks is expected, to be drunk through a straw protect their anonymity.\n\nIn more modern times, Guyanais men have attempted to turn the tables by staging \"soirées tololo\", in which it is the men who, in disguise, seek partners from undisguised women bystanders.\n\nThe final four days of Carnival follow a rigid schedule, and no work is done:\n\nThe most famous Carnival celebration in Guatemala is in Mazatenango. During February, Mazatenango is famous for its eight-day Carnival Feast. Days of food, music, parades, and games fill the streets of the department of Suchitepéquez. As one Guatemalan website states, \"To mention the Carnival of Mazatenango is to bring to mind moments of a happy and cordial party. In the eight days of this celebration's duration, the local residents have kept alive the traditions of the Department.\"\n\nCarnival in Haiti started in 1804 in the capital Port-au-Prince after the declaration of independence. The Port-au-Prince Carnival is one of the largest in North America. It is known as Kanaval in the Creole language. It starts in January, known as \"Pre-Kanaval\", while the main carnival activities begin in February. In July 2012, Haiti had another carnival called Kanaval de Fleur. Beautiful costumes, floats, Rara parades, masks, foods, and popular rasin music (such as Boukman Eksperyans, Foula Vodoule, Tokay, Boukan Ginen, and Eritaj) and kompa bands (such as T-Vice, Djakout No. 1, Sweet Micky, KreyòlLa, D.P. Express, Mizik Mizik, Ram, T-Micky, Carimi, Djakout Mizik, and Scorpio Fever) play for dancers in the streets of the plaza of Champ-de-Mars. An annual song competition takes place.\n\nOther places in Haiti celebrate carnival, including Jacmel and Aux Cayes. In 2013, Kanaval was celebrated in Okap (Cap-Haïtien).\n\nCarnival finishes on Ash Wednesday, followed by rara, another parading musical tradition known mainly in Haiti and in the Dominican Republic. This festival emphasises religion. Songs are composed each year, and bands play bamboo tubes (\"vaksin\") and homemade horns (\"konèt\"). Rara is also performed in Prospect and Central Park in summertime New York.\n\nIn La Ceiba in Honduras, Carnival is held on the fourth Saturday of every May to commemorate San Isidro. It is the largest Carnival celebration in Central America.\n\nIn Mexico, Carnival is celebrated in about 225 cities and towns. The largest is in Mazatlán and the city of Veracruz, with others in Baja California and Yucatán. The larger city Carnivals employ costumes, elected queens, and parades with floats, but Carnival celebrations in smaller and rural areas vary widely depending on the level of European influence during Mexico's colonial period. The largest of these is in Huejotzingo, Puebla, where most townspeople take part in mock combat with rifles shooting blanks, roughly based on the Battle of Puebla. Other important states with local traditions include Morelos, Oaxaca, Tlaxcala, and Chiapas. Carnavel of Campeche is over 400 years old.\n\nOn the Caribbean coast of Bluefields, Nicaragua, Carnival is better known as \"Palo de Mayo\" (or Mayo Ya!) and is celebrated every day of May.\n\nIn Managua, it is celebrated for two days. There it is named \"Alegria por la vida\" (\"Joy for Life\") and features a different theme each year. Another festival in Managua celebrates patron saint Domingo de Guzman and lasts ten days.\n\nTraditionally beginning on Friday and ending on the Tuesday before Ash Wednesday, \"los Carnavales\", as Panamanians refer to the days of Carnival, are celebrated across the country. Carnival Week is especially popular because of the opulent Las Tablas Carnival as well as the Carnival celebrations in Panama City and almost all of the Azuero Peninsula. The Panamanian Carnival is also popular because of the concerts in the most visited areas.\n\nThe town of Cajamarca is considered the capital of Carnival in Peru. Local residents of all ages dance around the \"unsha\", or \"yunsa\", a tree adorned with ribbons, balloons, toys, fruits, bottles of liquor, and other prizes.\n\nAt a certain point, the \"Mayordomo\" (governor of the feast) walks into the circle. The governor chooses a partner to go to the \"unsha\", which they attempt to cut down by striking it three times with a machete. The machete is passed from couple to couple as each strikes the tree three times. When the unsha finally falls, the crowd rushes to grab the prizes.\n\nThe person who successfully brings down the unsha becomes the following year's governor.\n\nWhile generally peaceful, there have been issues with people using Carnival as a pretext for crime, particularly robbery or vandalism, especially in certain areas of Lima.\n\nPuerto Rico's most popular festivals are the Carnaval de Loiza and Carnaval de Ponce. The Carnaval de Ponce (officially \"Carnaval Ponceño\") is celebrated annually celebration in Ponce. The celebration lasts one week and ends on the day before Ash Wednesday. It is one of the oldest carnivals of the Western Hemisphere, dating to 1858. Some authorities trace the Ponce Carnaval to the eighteenth century.\n\nIn Trinidad & Tobago, Carnival lasts months and culminates in large celebrations on the three days before Ash Wednesday with Dimanche Gras, J'ouvert, and Mas (masquerade). Tobago's celebration culminates on Monday and Tuesday on a much smaller scale. Carnival combines costumes, dance, music, competitions, rum, and partying (fete-ing). Music styles include soca, calypso, rapso, and more recently chutney and chutney soca.\n\nThe annual Carnival steel pan competition known as the National Panorama competition holds the finals on the Saturday before the main event. Pan players compete in categories such as \"Conventional Steel Band\" or \"Single Pan Band\" by performing renditions of the year's calypsos.\n\n\"Dimanche Gras\" takes place on the Sunday night before Ash Wednesday. Here the Calypso Monarch is chosen (after competition) and prize money and a vehicle awarded. The King and Queen of the bands are crowned, where each band parades costumes for two days and submits a king and queen, from which an overall winner is chosen. These usually involve huge, complex, beautiful well-crafted costumes, that includes 'wire-bending'.\n\nJ'ouvert, or \"Dirty Mas\", takes place before dawn on the Monday (known as Carnival Monday) before Ash Wednesday. It means \"opening of the day\". Revelers dress in costumes embodying puns on current affairs, especially political and social events. \"Clean Mud\" (clay mud), oil paint and body paint are familiar during J'ouvert. A common character is \"Jab-jabs\" (devils, blue, black, or red) complete with pitchfork, pointed horns and tails. A King and Queen of J'ouvert are chosen, based on their witty political/social messages.\nCarnival Monday involves the parade of the mas bands. Revelers wear only parts of their costumes, more for fun than display or competition. Monday Night Mas is popular in most towns and especially the capital, where smaller bands compete. There is also the \"Bomb Competition\", a smaller-scaled judging of steel bands.\n\nCarnival Tuesday hosts the main events. Full costume is worn, complete with make-up and body paint/adornment. Usually \"Mas Boots\" that complement the costumes are worn. Each band has their costume presentation based on a particular theme, and contains various sections (some consisting of thousands of revelers) that reflect these themes. The street parade and band costume competition take place. The mas bands eventually converge on the Queen's Park Savannah to pass on \"The Stage\" for judging. The singer of the most played song is crowned Road March King or Queen, earning prize money and usually a vehicle.\n\nThis parading and revelry goes on until Tuesday midnight. Ash Wednesday itself, while not an official holiday, sends flocks to local beaches. The most popular are Maracas Beach and Manzanilla Beach, where huge beach parties take place on Ash Wednesday.\n\nThe most widely known, elaborate, and popular US events are in New Orleans where Carnival season is referred to as Mardi Gras. Krewes organize parades, balls, and other activities. Most Louisiana cities such as Lake Charles, Baton Rouge, Shreveport, Lafayette, Mamou, Houma, and Thibodaux, most of which were under French control at one time or another, also hold Carnival celebrations. On the prairie country northwest of Lafayette, Louisiana the Cajuns celebrate the traditional Courir de Mardi Gras, which has its roots in celebrations from rural Medieval France.\n\nCarnival celebrations, usually referred to as Mardi Gras (\"Fat Tuesday\" in French), were first celebrated in the Gulf Coast area, but now occur in many states. Customs originated in the onetime French colonial capitals of Mobile (now in Alabama), New Orleans (Louisiana), and Biloxi (Mississippi), all of which have celebrated for many years with street parades and masked balls. Other major American cities with celebrations include Washington, D.C.; St. Louis; San Francisco; San Diego; Galveston, Texas; and Miami, Pensacola, Tampa, and Orlando in Florida.\n\nCarnival is celebrated in New York City in Brooklyn. As in the UK, the timing of Carnival split from the Christian calendar and is celebrated on Labor Day Monday, in September. It is called the Labor Day Carnival, West Indian Day Parade, or West Indian Day Carnival, and was founded by immigrants from Trinidad. That country has one of the largest Caribbean Carnivals. In the mid twentieth century, West Indians moved the event from the beginning of Lent to the Labor Day weekend. Carnival is one of the largest parades and street festivals in New York, with over one million attending. The parade, which consists of steel bands, floats, elaborate Carnival costumes, and sound trucks, proceeds along Brooklyn's Eastern Parkway in the Crown Heights neighborhood.\n\nStarting in 2013, the Slovenian-American community located in the St. Clair-Superior neighborhood of Cleveland began hosting a local version of Kurentovanje, the Carnival event held in the city of Ptuj, Slovenia. The event is conducted on the Saturday prior to Ash Wednesday.\n\nMardi Gras celebrations are spreading to other regions, such as the Mississippi Valley region of St. Louis, Missouri; Orlando, Florida in Universal Studios and in the Gaslamp Quarter of San Diego.\n\nThe Carnival in Uruguay lasts more than 40 days, generally beginning towards the end of January and running through mid March. Celebrations in Montevideo are the largest. The festival is performed in the European parade style with elements from Bantu and Angolan Benguela cultures imported with slaves in colonial times. The main attractions of Uruguayan Carnival include two colorful parades called \"Desfile de Carnaval\" (Carnival Parade) and \"Desfile de Llamadas\" (Calls Parade, a candombe-summoning parade).\n\nDuring the celebration, theaters called \"tablados\" are built in many places throughout the cities, especially in Montevideo. Traditionally formed by men and now starting to be open to women, the different Carnival groups (Murgas, Lubolos, or Parodistas) perform a kind of popular opera at the \"tablados\", singing and dancing songs that generally relate to the social and political situation. The 'Calls' groups, basically formed by drummers playing the tamboril, perform candombe rhythmic figures. The carnival in Uruguay have escolas de samba too, and the biggest samba parades are in Artigas and in Montevideo. Revelers wear their festival clothing. Each group has its own theme. Women wearing elegant, bright dresses are called vedettes and provide a sensual touch to parades.\n\nEuropean archetypes (Pierrot, Harlequin, and Columbina) merge with African ancestral elements (the Old Mother or \"Mama Vieja\", the Medicine Man or \"Gramillero\" and the Magician or \"Escobero\") in the festival.\n\nCarnival in Venezuela covers two days, 40 days before Easter. It is a time when youth in many rural towns have water fights (including the use of water balloons and water guns). Any pedestrian risks a soaking. Coastal towns and provinces celebrate Carnival more fervently than elsewhere in the country. Venezuelans regard Carnival about the same way they regard Christmas and Semana Santa (Holy Week; the week before Easter Sunday) when they take the opportunity to visit their families.\n\nIn India, Carnival is celebrated only in the state of Goa and a Roman Catholic tradition, where it is known as Intruz which means \"swindler\" while \"Entrudo\" is the appropriate word in Portuguese for \"Carnival\". The largest celebration takes place in the city of Panjim, which was part of Velha Conquista in Goa, but now is celebrated throughout the state. The tradition was introduced by the Portuguese who ruled Goa for over four centuries. On Tuesday preceding Ash Wednesday, the European tradition of Fat Tuesday is celebrated with the eating of crepes, also called \"AleBelle\". The crepes are filled with freshly grated coconut and heated condensed coconut sap that sequentially converts it into a brown sweet molasses; additional heat concentration solidifies it to jaggery. The celebrations of Carnival peak for three days and nights and precede Ash Wednesday, when the legendary King Momo takes over the state. All-night parades occur throughout the state with bands, dances, and floats. Grand balls are held in the evenings.\n\nAlthough Portugal introduced Christianity and the customs related to Catholic practice in India and Brazil, the celebrations in Goa like Portugal have begun to adopt some aspects of Brazilian-style Carnival celebrations, in particular those of Rio de Janeiro with sumptuous parades, samba and other musical elements.\n\nIn Indonesia, the word \"carnival\" or \"karnaval\" is not related to pre-Lent festivities, but more to festivals in general, especially those with processions and extravagant costumes. One of the largest carnivals in Indonesia is the Solo Batik Carnival, held in Solo, Central Java. The Jember Fashion Carnaval is held in Jember, East Java.\n\nThe Roman Catholic community of Kupang, East Nusa Tenggara, held an Easter procession in form of an Easter Carnival called \"Pawai Paskah Kupang\".\n\nFor almost five centuries, local Greek communities throughout Istanbul celebrated Carnival with weeks of bawdy parades, lavish balls, and street parties. This continued for weeks before Lent. Baklahorani took place on Shrove Monday, the last day of the carnival season. The event was led by the Greek Orthodox community, but the celebrations were public and inter-communal. The final celebration was sited in the Kurtuluş district. In 2010, the festival was revived.\n\nMany parts of Belgium celebrate Carnival, typically with costume parades, partying and fireworks. These areas include Aalst, Binche, Eupen, Halle, Heist, Kelmis, Maaseik, Malmedy, and Stavelot.\n\nThe Carnival of Binche dates at least to the 14th century. Parades are held over the three days before Lent; the most important participants are the Gilles, who wear traditional costumes on Shrove Tuesday and throw blood oranges to the crowd. In 2003, the Carnival of Binche was recognised as one of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity. The Carnival of Aalst, celebrated during the three days preceding Ash Wednesday, received the same recognition in 2010.\n\nThe Carnival of Malmedy is locally called \"Cwarmê\". Even if Malmedy is located in the east Belgium, near the German-speaking area, the \"Cwarmê\" is a pure Walloon and Latin carnival. The celebration takes place during the four days before Shrove Tuesday. The \"Cwarmê\" Sunday is the most important and insteresting to see. All the old traditional costumes parade in the street. The \"Cwarmê\" is a \"street carnival\" and is not only a parade. People who are disguised pass through the crowd and perform a part of the traditional costume they wear. The famous traditional costumes at the \"Cwarmê\" of Malmedy are the \"Haguète\", the \"Longuès-Brèsses\", and the \"Long-Né\"\".\"\n\nSome Belgian cities hold Carnivals during Lent. One of the best-known is Stavelot, where the \"Carnival de la Laetare\" takes place on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent. The participants include the \"Blancs-Moussis\", who dress in white, carry long red noses and parade through town attacking bystanders with confetti and dried pig bladders. The town of Halle also celebrates on Laetare Sunday. Belgium's oldest parade is the Carnival Parade of Maaseik, also held on Laetare Sunday, which originated in 1865.\n\nIn Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Croat-majority city of Ljubuški holds a traditional Carnival (). Ljubuški is a member of the Federation of European Carnival Cities (FECC).\n\nThe most famous Croatian Carnival (Croatian: \"karneval\", also called \"maškare\" or \"fašnik\") is the Rijeka Carnival, during which the mayor of Rijeka hands over the keys to the city to the Carnival master (\"meštar od karnevala\"). The festival includes several events, culminating on the final Sunday in a masked procession. (A similar procession for children takes place on the previous weekend.)\n\nMany towns in Croatia's Kvarner region (and in other parts of the country) observe the Carnival period, incorporating local traditions and celebrating local culture. Some of the towns and places are Grobnik, Permani, Kastav and many others places near Rijeka. Just before the end of Carnival, every Kvarner town burns a man-like doll called a \"Pust\", who is blamed for all the strife of the previous year. The Zvončari, or bell-ringers push away winter and all the bad things in the past year and calling spring, they wear bells and large head regalia representing their areas of origin (for example, those from Halubje wear regalia in the shape of animal heads). The traditional Carnival food is fritule, a pastry. This festival can also be called Poklade.\n\nMasks are worn to many of the festivities, including concerts and parties. Children and teachers are commonly allowed to wear masks to school for a day, and also wear masks at school dances or while trick-or-treating. Carnivals also take place in summer. One of the most famous is the Senj Summer Carnival – first celebrated in 1968. The towns of Cres, Pag, Novi Vinodolski, and Fužine also organise Summer Carnivals.\n\nCarnival has been celebrated in Cyprus for centuries. The tradition was likely established under Venetian rule around the 16th century. It may have been influenced by Greek traditions, such as festivities for deities such as Dionysus. The celebration originally involved dressing in costumes and holding masked balls or visiting friends. In the twentieth century, it became an organized event held during the 10 days preceding Lent (according to the Greek Orthodox calendar). The festival is celebrated almost exclusively in the city of Limassol.\n\nThree main parades take place during Carnival. The first is held on the first day, during which the \"Carnival King\" (either a person in costume or an effigy) rides through the city on his carriage. The second is held on the first Sunday of the festival, and the participants are mainly children. The third and largest takes place on the last day of Carnival and involves hundreds of people walking in costume along the town's longest avenue. The latter two parades are open to anyone who wishes to participate.\n\nIn the Czech Republic, the Masopust Festival takes place from Epiphany (\"Den tří králů\") through Ash Wednesday (\"Popeleční středa\"). The word \"masopust\" translates literally from old Czech to mean \"meat fast\", and the festival often includes a pork feast. The tradition is most common in Moravia but also occurs in Bohemia. While practices vary, masks and costumes are present everywhere.\n\nCarnival in Denmark is called \"Fastelavn\", and is held on the Sunday or Monday before Ash Wednesday. The holiday is sometimes described as a Nordic Halloween, with children dressing in costume and gathering treats for the \"Fastelavn\" feast. One popular custom is the \"fastelavnsris\", a switch that children use to flog their parents to wake them up on Fastelavns Sunday.\n\nIn Norway, students having seen celebrations in introduced Carnival processions, masked balls, and Carnival balls to Christiana in the 1840s and 1850s. From 1863, the artist federation \"Kunstnerforeningen\" held annual Carnival balls in the old Freemasons lodge, which inspired Johan Svendsen's compositions \"Norsk Kunstnerkarneval\" and \"Karneval in Paris\". The following year, Svendsen's \"Festpolonaise\" was written for the opening procession. Edvard Grieg attended and wrote \"Aus dem Karneval\" (\"Folkelivsbilleder\" Op. 19). Since 1988, the student organization has produced annual masquerade balls in Oslo, with masks, costumes, and processions after attending an opera performance. The Carnival season also includes \"Fastelavens søndag\" (with cream buns) and \"fastelavensris\" with decorated branches.\n\nIn England, the season immediately before Lent was called Shrovetide. A time for confessing sins (\"shriving\"), it had fewer festivities than the Continental Carnivals. Today, Shrove Tuesday is celebrated as Pancake Day, but little else of the Lent-related Shrovetide survived the 16th-century English Reformation. The Shrovetide Carnival in the United Kingdom is celebrated in Cowes and East Cowes on the Isle of Wight. Since 2012 Hastings, East Sussex has celebrated with its own Mardi Gras, or Fat Tuesday.\nFive days of music and street events culminating with a Grand Ball on Fat Tuesday itself. Loosely based on the New Orleans style of carnival, Hastings has taken its own course. \n\nSome major Carnivals of mainland France are the Nice Carnival, the Dunkirk Carnival and the Limoux Carnival. The Nice Carnival was held as far back as 1294, and annually attracts over a million visitors during the two weeks preceding Lent.\n\nSince 1604, a characteristic masked Carnival is celebrated in Limoux.\n\nThe Dunkirk Carnival is among the greatest and most exuberant carnivals celebrated in Europe. Its traditions date back to the 17th century and are based on the \"vischerbende\" as fishermen went from one café to another accompanied by their relatives and friends just before departing to Icelandic fishing grounds.\n\nIn the French West Indies, it occurs between the Sunday of Epiphany and Ash Wednesday; this dates back to the arrival of French colonists in the islands.\n\nThe earliest written record of Carnival in Germany was in 1296 in Speyer. The first worldwide Carnival parade took place in Cologne in 1823.\nThe most active Carnival week begins on the Thursday before Ash Wednesday, with parades during the weekend, and finishes the night before Ash Wednesday, with the main festivities occurring around \"Rosenmontag\" (Rose Monday). This time is also called the \"Fifth Season\". Shrove Tuesday, called \"Fastnacht\" or \"Veilchendienstag\", is celebrated in some cities.\n\nParties feature self-made and more fanciful costumes and occasional masks. The parties become more exuberant as the weeks progress and peak after New Year, in January and February. The final Tuesday features all-night parties, dancing, hugging, and smooching. Some parties are for all, some for women only and some for children. \"Kreppel\", or donuts, are the traditional Fasching food and are baked or fried.\n\nIn Germany, the \"Rheinische Fasching\" and the \"Schwäbische Fastnacht\" are distinct.\n\nThe \"Rheinische\" Carnival is held in the west of Germany, mainly in the states of North Rhine-Westphalia and Rhineland-Palatinate, but also in Hesse (including Upper Hesse), Bavaria, and other states. Some cities are more famous for celebrations such as parades and costume balls. The Cologne Carnival, as well as those in Mainz, Eschweiler and Düsseldorf, are the largest and most famous. Other cities have their own, often less well-known celebrations, parades, and parties, such as Worms am Rhein, Speyer, Kaiserslautern, Frankfurt, Darmstadt, Mannheim, Ludwigshafen, Stuttgart, Augsburg, Munich, and Nuremberg. The biggest german carnival club is located in a little town Dieburg in South Hesse. On Carnival Thursday (called \"Old Women Day\" or \"The Women's Day\" in commemoration of an 1824 revolt by washer-women), women storm city halls, cut men's ties, and are allowed to kiss any passing man. Special acrobatic show dances in mock uniforms are a traditional contribution to most festive balls. They may or may not have been a source of inspiration to American cheerleading. The Fasching parades and floats make fun of individual politicians and other public figures. Many speeches do the same.Cologne Carnival traditions explained in English.\n\nThe \"Swabian-Alemannic\" Carnival, known as \"Schwäbische Fastnacht\", takes place in Baden, Swabia, the Allgäu, Alsace, and Vorarlberg (western Austria). During the pagan era, it represented the time of year when the reign of the grim winter spirits is over, and these spirits are hunted and expelled. It then adapted to Catholicism. The first official record of Karneval, Fasching or Fastnacht in Germany dates to 1296.\n\nIn Switzerland, \"Fasnacht\" takes place in the Catholic cantons of Switzerland, e.g. in Lucerne (\"Lozärner Fasnacht\"), but also in Protestant Basel. However, the \"Basler Fasnacht\" begins on the Monday \"after\" Ash Wednesday. Both began in the Late Middle Ages. Smaller Fasnacht festivities take place across German Switzerland, e.g. in Bern and Olten, or in the eastern part (Zurich, St. Gallen, Appenzell).\n\nIn Greece, Carnival is also known as the \"Apokriés\" (Greek: Αποκριές, \"saying goodbye to meat\"), or the season of the \"Opening of the Triodion\", so named after the liturgical book used by the church from then until Holy Week. One of the season's high points is \"Tsiknopempti\", when celebrants enjoy roast beef dinners; the ritual is repeated the following Sunday. The following week, the last before Lent, is called \"Tyrinē\" (Greek: Τυρινή, \"cheese [week]\") because meat is forbidden, although dairy products are not. Lent begins on \"Clean Monday\", the day after \"Cheese Sunday\". Throughout the Carnival season, people disguise themselves as \"maskarádes\" (\"masqueraders\") and engage in pranks and revelry.\n\nPatras holds the largest annual Carnival in Greece; the famous Patras Carnival is a three-day spectacle replete with concerts, \"balles masqués\", parading troupes, a treasure hunt, and many events for children. The grand parade of masked troupes and floats is held at noon on \"Tyrine\" Sunday, and culminates in the ceremonial burning of the effigy of King Carnival at the Patras harbour.\n\nOther regions host festivities of smaller extent, focused on the reenactment of traditional carnevalic customs, such as Tyrnavos (Thessaly), Kozani (Western Macedonia), Rethymno (Crete), and in Xanthi (Eastern Macedonia and Thrace). Tyrnavos holds an annual Phallus festival, a traditional \"phallkloric\" event in which giant, gaudily painted effigies of phalluses made of papier-mâché are paraded, and which women are asked to touch or kiss. Their reward for so doing is a shot of the famous local tsipouro alcohol spirit.\n\nEvery year, from 1 to 8 January, mostly in regions of Western Macedonia, Carnival festivals erupt. The best known is the Kastorian Carnival or \"Ragoutsaria\" (Gr. \"Ραγκουτσάρια\") [tags: Kastoria, Kastorian Carnival, Ragoutsaria, Ραγκουτσαρια, Καστοριά]. It takes place from 6 to 8 January with mass participation serenaded by brass bands, pipises, and Macedonian and grand casa drums. It is an ancient celebration of nature's rebirth (festivals for Dionysus (Dionysia) and Kronos (Saturnalia)), which ends the third day in a dance in the medieval square Ntoltso where the bands play at the same time.\n\nIn Mohács, Hungary, the \"Busójárás\" is a celebration held at the end of the Carnival season. It involves locals dressing in woolly costumes, with scary masks and noise-makers. They perform a burial ritual to symbolise the end of winter and spike doughnuts on weapons to symbolise the defeat of the Ottomans.\n\nThe most famous Carnivals of Italy are held in Venice, Viareggio, and Ivrea.\n\nThe Carnival in Venice was first recorded in 1268. Its subversive nature is reflected in Italy's many laws over the centuries attempting to restrict celebrations and the wearing of masks. Carnival celebrations in Venice were halted after the city fell under Austrian control in 1798, but were revived in the late 20th century.\n\nThe month-long Carnival of Viareggio is characterized mainly by its parade of floats and masks caricaturing popular figures. In 2001, the town built a new \"Carnival citadel\" dedicated to Carnival preparations and entertainment.\n\nThe Carnival of Ivrea is famous for its \"Battle of the Oranges\" fought with fruit between the people on foot and the troops of the tyrant on carts, to remember the wars of the Middle Ages.\n\nIn the most part of the Archdiocese of Milan, the Carnival lasts four more days, ending on the Saturday after Ash Wednesday, because of the Ambrosian Rite.\n\n\"Užgavėnės\" is a Lithuanian festival that takes place on Shrove Tuesday. Its name in English means \"the time before Lent\". The celebration corresponds to Carnival holiday traditions.\n\n\"Užgavėnės\" begins on the night before Ash Wednesday, when an effigy of winter (usually named Morė) is burnt. A major element symbolizes the defeat of winter in the Northern Hemisphere. It is a staged battle between Lašininis (\"porky\") personifying winter and Kanapinis (\"hempen man\") personifying spring. Devils, witches, goats, the grim reaper, and other joyful and frightening characters appear in costumes during the celebrations.\n\nEating pancakes is an important part of the celebration.\n\nIn Luxembourg, the pre-Lenten holiday season is known as \"Fuesend\". Throughout the Grand-Duchy, parades and parties are held.\n\nPétange is the home of the Grand-Duchy's largest pre-Lenten Karneval celebration. Annually hosting a cavalcade with roughly 1,200 participants and thousand of celebrants, the official name is Karneval Gemeng Péiteng or \"Kagepe\" (the initials in Luxembourgish are pronounced \"Ka\", \"Ge\" and \"Pe\").\n\nThe town of Remich holds a three-day-long celebration, notable for two special events in addition to its parades. The first is the \"Stréimännchen\", which is the burning of a male effigy from the Remich Bridge that crosses the Moselle River separating the Grand Duchy from Germany. The \"Stréimännchen\" symbolizes the burning away of winter. The other special event at the Remich Fuesend celebrations is the \"Buergbrennen\" or bonfire that closes the celebration.\n\nLike Remich, the town of Esch-sur-Alzette holds a three-day celebration. Other major Fuesend parades in Luxembourg are held in the towns of Diekirch and Schifflange.\n\nCarnival in Malta (Maltese: \"il-Karnival ta' Malta\") was introduced to the islands by Grand Master Piero de Ponte in 1535. It is held during the week leading up to Ash Wednesday, and typically includes masked balls, fancy dresses, and grotesque mask competitions, lavish late-night parties, a colourful, ticker-tape parade of allegorical floats presided over by King Carnival (Maltese: \"ir-Re tal-Karnival\"), marching bands, and costumed revellers.\n\nThe largest celebration takes place in and around the capital city of Valletta and Floriana; several more \"spontaneous\" Carnivals take place in more remote areas. The Nadur Carnival is notable for its darker themes. In 2005, the Nadur Carnival hosted the largest-ever gathering of international Carnival organizers for the FECC's global summit.\n\nTraditional dances include the \"parata\", a lighthearted re-enactment of the 1565 victory of the Knights Hospitaller over the Turks, and an 18th-century court dance known as \"il-Maltija\". Carnival food includes \"perlini\" (multi-coloured, sugar-coated almonds) and the \"prinjolata\", which is a towering assembly of sponge cake, biscuits, almonds, and citrus fruits, topped with cream and pine nuts.\n\nCarnival in the Netherlands is called \"Carnaval\", \"Vastenavond\" (\"Eve of Lent\") or, in Limburgish, \"Vastelaovend(j)\", and is mostly celebrated in traditionally Catholic regions, particularly in the southern provinces of North Brabant, Limburg and Zeeland, but also in Gelderland, especially in Twente. While Dutch Carnaval is officially celebrated on the Sunday through Tuesday preceding Ash Wednesday, since the 1970s the feast has gradually started earlier and generally includes now the preceding weekend. Although traditions vary from town to town, Dutch carnaval usually includes a parade, a \"Prince Carnival\" plus cortège (\"Council of 11\", sometimes with a Jester or Adjutant), sometimes also the handing over by the mayor of the symbolic keys of the town to Prince Carnival, the burning or burial of a symbolic figure, a peasant wedding (\"boerenbruiloft\"), and eating herring (\"haring happen\") on Ash Wednesday.\n\nTwo main variants can be distinguished: the \"Rhineland carnaval\", found in the province of Limburg, and the \"Bourgondische carnaval\", found mainly in North Brabant. Maastricht, Limburg's capital, holds a street carnaval that features elaborate costumes.\n\nThe first known documentation dates from the late 8th century (\"Indiculus superstitionum et paganiarum\"), but Carnaval was already mentioned during the First Council of Nicaea in 325 and by Caesarius of Arles (470-542) around 500 CE. In the Netherlands itself, the first documentation is found in 1383 in 's-Hertogenbosch. The oldest-known images of Dutch Carnaval festivities date from 1485, also in 's-Hertogenbosch.\n\nNormal daily life comes to a stop for about a week in the southern part of the Netherlands during the carnival, with roads temporary blocked and many local businesses closed for the week as a result of employees who are en masse taking the days off during and the day after the carnival.\n\nThe Polish Carnival season includes Fat Thursday (Polish: \"Tłusty Czwartek\"), when \"pączki\" (doughnuts) are eaten, and \"Śledzik\" (Shrove Tuesday) or Herring Day. The Tuesday before the start of Lent is also often called \"Ostatki\" (literally \"leftovers\"), meaning the last day to party before the Lenten season.\n\nThe traditional way to celebrate Carnival is the \"kulig\", a horse-drawn sleigh ride through the snow-covered countryside. In modern times, Carnival is increasingly seen as an excuse for intensive partying and has become more commercialized, with stores offering Carnival-season sales.\n\nCarnival is Carnaval in Portugal, celebrated throughout the country, most famously in Ovar, Sesimbra, Madeira, Loulé, Nazaré, and Torres Vedras. Carnaval in Podence and Lazarim incorporates pagan traditions such as the careto, while the Torres Vedras celebration is probably the most typical.\n\nAlthough Portugal introduced Christianity and the customs related to Catholic practice to Brazil, the country has begun to adopt some aspects of Brazilian-style Carnaval celebrations, in particular those of Rio de Janeiro with sumptuous parades, samba and other musical elements.\n\nIn Lazarim, a civil parish in the municipality of Lamego, celebrations follow the pagan tradition of Roman Saturnalias. It celebrates by burning colorful effigies and dressing in home-made costumes. Locally-made wooden masks are worn. The masks are effigies of men and women with horns, but both roles are performed by men. They are distinguished by their clothes, with caricature attributes of both men and women.\n\nThe Lazarim Carnaval cycle encompasses two periods, the first starting on the fifth Sunday before Quinquagesima Sunday. Masked figures and people wearing large sculpted heads walk through the town. The locals feast on meats, above all pork. The second cycle, held on Sundays preceding Ash Wednesday, incorporates the tradition of the Compadres and Comadres, with men and women displaying light-hearted authority over the other.\n\nOver the five weeks, men prepare large masked heads and women raise funds to pay for two mannequins that will be sacrificed in a public bonfire. This is a key event and is unique to Portugal. During the bonfire, a girl reads the Compadre's will and a boy reads the Comadre's will. The executors of the will are named, a donkey is symbolically distributed to both female and male \"heirs\", and then there is the final reckoning in which the Entrudo, or Carnival doll, is burned.\n\nOn the islands of the Azores, local clubs and Carnival groups create colorful and creative costumes that jab at politics or culture.\n\nOn São Miguel Island, Carnival features street vendors selling fried dough, called a malassada. The festival on the biggest island starts off with a black tie grand ball, followed by Latin music at Coliseu Micaelense. A children's parade fills the streets of Ponta Delgada with children from each school district in costume. A massive parade continues past midnight, ending in fireworks.\n\nThe event includes theatre performances and dances. In the \"Danças de Entrudo\", hundreds of people follow the dancers around the island. Throughout the show the dancers act out scenes from daily life. The \"Dances de Carnival\" are allegorical and comedic tales acted out in the streets. The largest is in Angra do Heroísmo, with more than 30 groups performing. More Portuguese-language theatrical performances occur there than anywhere else.\n\nFestivities end on Ash Wednesday, when locals sit down for the \"Batatada\" or potato feast, in which the main dish is salted cod with potatoes, eggs, mint, bread and wine. Residents then return to the streets for the burning of the \"Carnival clown\", ending the season.\n\nOn the island of Madeira, the island's capital, Funchal, wakes up on the Friday before Ash Wednesday to the sound of brass bands and Carnival parades throughout downtown. Festivities continue with concerts and shows in the Praça do Município for five consecutive days. The main Carnival street parade takes place on Saturday evening, with thousands of samba dancers filling the streets. The traditional street event takes place on Tuesday, featuring daring caricatures.\n\nArguably, Brazil's Carnival could be traced to the period of the Portuguese Age of Discoveries when their caravels passed regularly through Madeira, a territory that emphatically celebrated Carnival.\n\nIn Estarreja, in the Central region of Portugal, the town's first references to Carnival were in the 14th century, with \"Flower Battles\", richly decorated floats that paraded through the streets. At the beginning of the twentieth century, these festivities ended with the deaths of its main promoters, only to reappear again in the 1960s to become one of many important Carnival festivals in Portugal.\n\nIn the Northern region of Podence, children appear from Sunday to Tuesday with tin masks and colorful multilayered costumes made from red, green and yellow wool. In the Central Portugal towns of Nelas and Canas de Senhorim, Carnival is an important tourist event. Nelas and Canas de Senhorim host four festive parades that offer colorful and creative costumes: Bairro da Igreja and Cimo do Povo in Nelas and do Paço and do Rossio in Canas de Senhorim.\n\nCarnival in the town of Ovar, near Porto, began in 1952 and is the region's largest festivity, representing a large investment and the most important touristic event to the city. It is known for its creative designs, displayed in the Carnival Parade, which features troupes with themed costumes and music, ranging from the traditional to pop culture. Along with the Carnival Parade, there are five nights of partying, finishing with the famous 'Magical night' where people come from all over the country, mostly with their handmade costumes, only to have fun with the locals. \n\nIn Lisbon, Carnival offers parades, dances and festivities featuring stars from Portugal and Brazil. The Loures Carnival celebrates the country's folk traditions, including the \"enterro do bacalhau\" or burial of the cod, which marks the end of Carnival and the festivities.\n\nNorth of Lisbon is the famous Torres Vedras Carnival, described as the \"most Portuguese in Portugal\". The celebration highlight is a parade of creatively decorated streetcars that satirize society and politics.\n\nOther Central Portugal towns, such as Fátima and Leiria, offer colorful, family-friendly celebrations. In these towns, everyone dresses up as if it were Halloween. Children and adults wear masks.\n\nIn the Algarve region, several resort towns offer Carnival parades. Besides the themed floats and cars, the festivities include \"samba\" groups, bands, dances, and music.\n\nThe most popular Carnivals in Macedonia are in Vevčani and Strumica.\n\nThe Vevčani Carnival (Macedonian: Вевчански Kарневал, translated \"Vevchanski Karneval\") has been held for over 1,400 years, and takes place on 13 and 14 January (New Year's Eve and New Year's Day by the old calendar). The village becomes a live theatre where costumed actors improvise on the streets in roles such as the traditional \"August the Stupid\".\n\nThe Strumica Carnival (Macedonian: Струмички Карневал, translated \"Strumichki Karneval\") has been held since at least 1670, when the Turkish author Evlija Chelebija wrote while staying there, \"I came into a town located in the foothills of a high hillock and what I saw that night was masked people running house–to–house, with laughter, scream and song.\" The Carnival took an organized form in 1991; in 1994, Strumica became a member of FECC and in 1998 hosted the XVIII International Congress of Carnival Cities. The Strumica Carnival opens on a Saturday night at a masked ball where the Prince and Princess are chosen; the main Carnival night is on Tuesday, when masked participants (including groups from abroad) compete in various subjects. As of 2000, the Festival of Caricatures and Aphorisms has been held as part of Strumica's Carnival celebrations.\n\nMaslenitsa (, also called \"Pancake Week\" or \"Cheese Week\") is a Russian folk holiday that incorporates some pagan traditions. It is celebrated during the last week before Lent. The essential element is bliny, Russian pancakes, popularly taken to symbolize the sun. Round and golden, they are made from the rich foods allowed that week by the Orthodox traditions: butter, eggs, and milk. (In the tradition of Orthodox Lent, the consumption of meat ceases one week before that of milk and eggs.)\n\nMaslenitsa also includes masquerades, snowball fights, sledding, swinging on swings, and sleigh rides. The mascot is a brightly dressed straw effigy of Lady Maslenitsa, formerly known as Kostroma. The celebration culminates on Sunday evening, when Lady Maslenitsa is stripped of her finery and put to the flames of a bonfire.\n\nIn Slovakia, the Fašiangy (\"fašiang\", \"fašangy\") takes place from Three Kings Day (\"Traja králi\") until the midnight before Ash Wednesday (\"Škaredá streda\" or \"Popolcová streda\"). At the midnight marking the end of \"fašiangy\", a symbolic burial ceremony for the contrabass is performed, because music ceases for Lent.\n\nThe Slovenian countryside displays a variety of disguised groups and individual characters, among which the most popular and characteristic is the Kurent (plural: \"Kurenti\"), a monstrous and demon-like, but fluffy figure. The most significant festival is held in Ptuj (see: Kurentovanje). Its special feature are the Kurents themselves, magical creatures from another world, who visit major events throughout the country, trying to banish the winter and announce spring's arrival, fertility, and new life with noise and dancing. The origin of the Kurent is a mystery, and not much is known of the times, beliefs, or purposes connected with its first appearance. The origin of the name itself is obscure.\n\nThe Cerknica Carnival is heralded by a figure called \"Poganjič\" carrying a whip. In the procession, organised by the \"Pust society\", a monstrous witch named Uršula is driven from the mountain Slivnica, to be burned at the stake on Ash Wednesday. Unique to this region is a group of dormice, driven by the Devil and a huge fire-breathing dragon. Cerkno and its surrounding area are known for the \"Laufarji\", Carnival figures with artistically carved wooden masks.\n\nThe \"Maškare\" from Dobrepolje used to represent a triple character: the beautiful, the ugly (among which the most important represented by an old man, an old woman, a hunchback, and a \"Kurent\"), and the noble (imitating the urban elite).\n\nThe major part of the population, especially the young and children, dress up in ordinary non-ethnic costumes, going to school, work, and organized events, where prizes are given for the best and most original costumes. Costumed children sometimes go from house to house asking for treats.\n\nArguably the most famous Carnivals in Spain are Santa Cruz, Las Palmas, Sitges, Vilanova i la Geltrú, Tarragona, Águilas, Solsona, Cádiz, Badajoz, Bielsa (an ancestral Carnival celebration), Plan, San Juan de Plan, Laza, Verín, Viana, and Xinzo de Limia.\n\nOne of the oldest pre-Indo-European carnival in Europe takes place in Ituren and Zubieta in Navarre in late January/early February. The carnival symbolises the eternal struggle between the forces of good and evil, light and darkness, winter and spring.\n\nIn Cádiz, the costumes worn are often related to recent news, such as the bird flu epidemic in 2006, during which many people were disguised as chickens. The feeling of this Carnival is the sharp criticism, the funny play on words and the imagination in the costumes, more than the glamorous dressings. It is traditional to paint the face with lipstick as a humble substitute of a mask.\n\nThe most famous groups are the chirigotas, choirs, and comparsas. The chirigotas are well known witty, satiric popular groups who sing about politics, new times, and household topics, wearing the same costume, which they prepare for the whole year. The Choirs (\"coros\") are wider groups that go on open carts through the streets singing with an orchestra of guitars and lutes. Their signature piece is the \"Carnival Tango\", alternating comical and serious repertory. The comparsas are the serious counterpart of the chirigota in Cádiz, and the poetic lyrics and the criticism are their main ingredients. They have a more elaborated polyphony that is easily recognizable by the typical countertenor voice.\n\nThe Santa Cruz Carnival is, with the Carnival of Cadiz, the most important festival for Spanish tourism and Spain's largest Carnival. In 1980, it was declared a Festival Tourist International Interest. Every February, Santa Cruz de Tenerife, the capital of the largest of the Canary Islands, hosts the event, attracting around a million people.\n\nIn 1980, it was declared a Festival Tourist International Interest. In 1987, Cuban singer Celia Cruz with orchestra Billo's Caracas Boys performed at the \"Carnival Chicharrero\", attended by 250,000 people. This was registered in the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" as the largest gathering of people in an outdoor plaza to attend a concert, a record she holds today.\n\nThe Carnival of Las Palmas (Gran Canaria) has a drag queen's gala where a jury chooses a winner.\n\nIn Catalonia, people dress in masks and costume (often in themed groups) and organize a week-long series of parties, pranks, outlandish activities such as bed races, street dramas satirizing public figures, and raucous processions to welcome the arrival of \"Sa Majestat el Rei Carnestoltes\" (\"His Majesty King Carnival\"), known by various titles, including \"el Rei dels poca-soltes\" (\"King of the Crackpots\"), \"Princep etern de Cornudella\" (\"Eternal Prince of Cuckoldry\"), \"Duc de ximples i corrumputs\" (\"Duke of Fools and the Corrupt\"), \"Marquès de la bona mamella\" (\"Marquis of the lovely breast\"), \"Comte de tots els barruts\" (\"Count of the Insolent\"), \"Baró de les Calaverades\" (\"Baron of Nocturnal Debaucheries\"), and \"Senyor de l'alt Plàtan florit, dels barraquers i gamberrades i artista d'honor dalt del llit\" (\"Lord of the Tall Banana in Bloom, of the Voyeurs and Punks and the Artist of Honor upon the Bed\").\n\nThe King presides over a period of misrule in which conventional social rules may be broken and reckless behavior is encouraged. Festivities are held in the open air, beginning with a \"cercavila\", a ritual procession throughout the town to call everyone to attend. \"Rues\" of masked revelers dance alongside. On Thursday, \"Dijous Gras\" (Fat Thursday) is celebrated, also called 'omelette day' (el \"dia de la truita\"), on which \"coques\" (\"de llardons, butifarra d'ou, butifarra\"), and omelettes are eaten. The festivities end on Ash Wednesday with elaborate funeral rituals marking the death of King Carnival, who is typically burned on a pyre in what is called the \"burial of the sardine\" (\"enterrament de la sardina\"), or, in Vilanova, as \"l'enterro\".\n\nThe Carnival of Vilanova i la Geltrú has a documented history from 1790 and is one of the richest in the variety of its acts and rituals. It adopts an ancient style in which satire, the grotesque body (particularly cross-dressing and displays of exaggerated bellies, noses, and phalli) and above all, active participation are valued over glamorous, media-friendly spectacles that Vilanovins mock as \"thighs and feathers\". It is best known for \"Les Comparses\" (held on Sunday), a tumultuous dance in which 12,000 or more dancers organized into rival groups throw 75 tons of hard candies at one other. The women protect their faces with \"Mantons de Manila\" (Manila shawls), but eye-patches and slings for broken arms are common the following week. Vilanovins organize an elaborate ritual for the arrival of King Carnival called \"l'Arrivo\" that changes every year. It includes a raucous procession of floats and dancers lampooning current events or public figures and a bitingly satiric sermon (\"el sermo\") delivered by the King himself. On \"Dijous Gras,\" Vilanovin children are excused from school to participate in the \"Merengada,\" a day-long scene of eating and fighting with sticky, sweet meringue.\n\nAdults have a meringue battle at midnight at the historic \"Plaça de les Cols\" in the mysterious \"sortida del Moixo Foguer\" (the outing of Little-Bird-Bonfire), accompanied by the \"Xerraire\" (jabberer) who insults the crowd. In the King's procession, he and his concubines scandalize the town with their sexual behavior. A \"correfoc\" (fire run) or Devil's dance (\"ball de diables\"), features dancing youth amid the sparks and explosions of the ritual crew of devils. Other items includes bed races in the streets, the debauched \"Nit dels Mascarots\", karaoke sausage roasts, \"xatonades,\" the children's party, \"Vidalet\", the last night of revelry, \"Vidalot\", the \"talking-dance\" of the Mismatched Couples (\"Ball de Malcasats\") and the children's King \"Caramel\" whose massive belly, long nose and sausage-like hair hint at his insatiable appetites.\n\nFor the King's funeral, people dress in elaborate mourning costume, many of them cross-dressing men who carry bouquets of phallic vegetables. In the funeral house, the body of the King is surrounded by an honor guard and weeping concubines, crying over the loss of sexual pleasure brought about by his death. The King's body is carried to the \"Plaça de la Vila\" where a satiric eulogy is delivered while the townspeople eat salty grilled sardines with bread and wine, suggesting the symbolic cannibalism of the communion ritual. Finally, amid rockets and explosions, the King's body is burned in a massive pyre.\n\nCarnaval de Solsona takes place in Solsona, Lleida. It is one of the longest; free events in the streets and nightly concerts run for more than a week. The Carnival is known for a legend that explains how a donkey was hung at the tower bell − because the animal wanted to eat grass that grew on the top of the tower. To celebrate this legend, locals hang a stuffed donkey at the tower that \"pisses\" above the excited crowd using a water pump. This event is the most important and takes place on Saturday night. For this reason, the inhabitants are called \"matarrucs\" (\"donkey killers\").\n\n\"Comparses\" groups organize free activities. These groups of friends create and personalize a uniformed suit to wear during the festivities.\n\nIn Sitges, special feasts include \"xatonades\" (\"xató\" is a traditional local salad of the Penedès coast) served with omelettes. Two important moments are the \"Rua de la Disbauxa\" (Debauchery Parade) on Sunday night and the \"Rua de l'Extermini\" (Extermination Parade) on Tuesday night. Around 40 floats draw more than 2,500 participants.\n\nTarragona has one of the region's most complete ritual sequences. The events start with the building of a huge barrel and ends with its burning with the effigies of the King and Queen. On Saturday, the main parade takes place with masked groups, zoomorphic figures, music, and percussion bands, and groups with fireworks (the devils, the dragon, the ox, the female dragon). Carnival groups stand out for their clothes full of elegance, showing brilliant examples of fabric crafts, at the Saturday and Sunday parades. About 5,000 people are members of the parade groups.\n\nOne of the most important Spanish Carnival Festivals is celebrated in Vinaròs, a small town situated in the northern part of the province of Castellón, Valencian Community.\n\nThe Carnival Festival in Vinaròs has been declared of Regional Touristic Interest and in 2017, this outstanding and ancient show celebrates 35 years of History. The Carnival Festival in Vinaròs became a forbidden celebration during the Spanish Civil War but after the dictatorship, the party regained importance with the democracy’s arrival.\n\nEvery year in February, forty days before the Spanish Cuaresma, thirty-three “comparsas” go singing, dancing and walking down the streets in a great costumes’ parade in Vinaròs. In addition, other many festive, cultural and musical activities of all ages take place, such as an epic battle of confetti and flour, funny karaoke contests or the so-called “Entierro de la Sardina” (Burial of the Sardine).\n\nNevertheless, the most important event is the gala performance of the Carnival’s Queen. In this breathtaking show, it is elected the Queen of the Carnival, the major representative of the Carnival in Vinaròs all year round.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "975503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=975503", "title": "Carny", "text": "Carny\n\nCarny, also spelled carnie, is an informal term used in North America for a traveling carnival employee, and the language they use, particularly when the employee plays a game (\"joint\"), food stand (\"grab\" or \"popper\"), or ride at a carnival. The term \"showie\" is used synonymously in Australia.\n\n\"Carny\" is thought to have become popularized around 1931 in North America, when it was first colloquially used to describe one who works at a carnival. The word \"carnival\", originally meaning a \"time of merrymaking before Lent,\" came into use circa 1549.\n\nThe carny vocabulary is traditionally part of carnival cant, a secret language. It is an ever-changing form of communication, in large part designed to be impossible to understand by an outsider. As words are assimilated into the culture at large, they lose their function and are replaced by more obscure or insular terms. Most carnies no longer use cant, but some owners/operators and \"old-timers\" still use some of the classic terms.\n\nIn addition to carny jargon, some carnival workers used a special infix (\"earz\" or \"eez\" or \"iz\") to render regular language unintelligible to outsiders. This style eventually migrated into wrestling, hip hop, and other parts of modern culture.\n\nThe British form of fairground cant is called \"Parlyaree\".\n\n\n\nIn The Blacklist (TV series) season 5, episode 11 Raymond Reddington speaks carny to an associate while being involved in illegal dealings.\n\n\nCarny Man by Cross Canadian Ragweed\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45324682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45324682", "title": "Carry Nation (play)", "text": "Carry Nation (play)\n\nCarry Nation is an historical play by Frank McGrath about the temperance leader Carrie Nation. It ran on Broadway and starred American film actress Esther Dale in the title role.\n\n\"Carry Nation\" premiered in New York on Broadway at the Biltmore Theatre on October 29, 1932 and starred Esther Dale, who had been known principally as a singer up to that time. The show was produced by Dale’s husband, the writer and theater producer Arthur J. Beckhard, and was directed by stage actress Blanche Yurka. The show was playwright McGrath’s only Broadway play and closed after just 30 performances.\n\nDespite its being a flop, the show was notable for having launched the Broadway careers of supporting actress Mildred Natwick and the actors Jimmy Stewart, Myron McCormick and Josh Logan, who had known one another at Princeton University where the three men were members of the University Players theater company. At the time, they were rooming in New York with a fourth University Player alumnus, Henry Fonda. Logan also served as assistant director to Blanche Yurka in the production. The show had originated in summer stock, and some of the young players from the earlier staging were carried over into the New York production in small roles.\n\nEsther Dale received glowing reviews from the New York critics for her portrayal of Carry (sic). In addition to Dale, the featured performers included Leslie Adams, Donald Foster, Daisy Belmore, Byron McGrath, John Parrish, Ernest Pollock and Fannie Bell De Knight.\n\n\nThe story line of the play followed the chronology of the prohibitionist leader's life, beginning with her birth in 1846 in Kentucky to a zealously pious father, her marriage to a chronic drunk, a second marriage to a country preacher, her public campaign against Demon Rum and her infamous marches culminating in the axing of booze barrels. The story concluded with her final appearance before a Town Hall gathering in Tennessee in 1910.\n\n"}
{"id": "28046664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28046664", "title": "Cincinnati Fringe Festival", "text": "Cincinnati Fringe Festival\n\nThe Cincinnati Fringe Festival (Cincy Fringe), produced by Know Theatre of Cincinnati, was founded in Cincinnati, Ohio in 2004 and is now Ohio’s largest Performing Arts festival. It consists of 13 days of theatre, art, music, dance, and everything between and always begins the day after Memorial Day. Cincy Fringe uses over a dozen venues in the heart of the Over-the-Rhine neighborhood to present independently produced works from local, national, and international artists.\n"}
{"id": "1191710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1191710", "title": "Collective for Living Cinema", "text": "Collective for Living Cinema\n\nThe Collective for Living Cinema was an outpost of avant-garde cinema located on White Street in Lower Manhattan in the United States of America. It regularly presented work by filmmakers such as Ken Jacobs, Johan van der Keuken, Yvonne Rainer, Christine Vachon, Dziga Vertov and many others who created films that were outside of the commercial mainstream in the United States. It also published a number of scholarly journals on film. Many of the founders studied film at Binghamton University together, where they developed a particular interest in the avant-garde.\n\nA recent retrospective show on the Collective's program organized by ORCHARD (orchard47.org) included the following note in its press release:\n\nIn 1973 a group of film students from the Binghamton University Cinema Department looking to create a contemporary and fertile context for their work found The Collective for Living Cinema, an artist-run cooperative that would serve both as an exhibition venue and a center for production and discourse. Above the first program note was a miniature manifesto stating their intention to “overcome the economic, social and political burdens of an art in chains.” Lasting for 19 years, The Collective came to embody the under-defined moment between the canonized generation of “the essential cinema” and the transfiguration of film as “new media” embraced by the institutional hierarchy of the art world and subject to the theoretical, critical and economic tidal forces therein. Run as a multi-disciplinary venue, The Collective continuously engaged in a recovery of the recent past, championing the marginal and positing alternative film histories. The screening room was seen as a workshop in which this culture became immersed in its own brand of cinematic delirium. Annette Michelson pointed out that The Collective \"attempted to break down distinctions between industrial film and avant garde film, between films that form part of a classical canon and those which are on the margins or periphery of canonical taste.\" By \"maintaining and constantly questioning an exploratory attitude rather than by embalming predigested classical canon\", Michelson stated, The Collective emerged in the 1980s as the \"liveliest\" New York film venue of its time.\n\nThis exhibition will re-examine the Collective’s history and parallel its mission within the current set of “economic, social and political chains.” It has been organized as a series of individually programmed screening events at ORCHARD (April 6–8 to be held at Anthology Film Archive), a timeline of documentation and an installation specific to the ambivalent capacity of cinema to enter the gallery through production / distribution on video.\n\nIn the late 1980s, the Collective was forced to move from its 52 White Street location (due to legal and financial issues related to the building's certificate of occupancy and the NYC building codes for motion picture theaters) to a new space across the street. With rising costs and the gentrification of TriBeCa, and reductions in funding from the then-beleaguered National Endowment for the Arts and the New York State Council on the Arts, the Collective closed its doors in 1993. The last home of the Collective, at 41 White Street, was for some time The Flea Theater before they moved to their current location.\n\nOriginal founders included Ken Ross, Philip Weisman, Lushe Sacker, Mark Graff, Renée Shafransky. Many people affiliated with the Collective for Living Cinema were or have gone on to be quite influential in media, such the late Alf Bold, the former programmer of the Arsenal Kino in Berlin, Judith Shulevitz, the columnist for \"The New York Times\" and \"Slate\", and John Sloss, the attorney and film producer who has produced more than 40 films, including \"Far From Heaven\", \"Before Sunset\", \"Personal Velocity\", and \"The Fog of War\".\n\nOthers are noted artists such as the filmmaker Lizzie Borden, who very appropriately taught film editing at the Collective.\nhttp://orchard47.org/testshow.php?name=The%20Collective\n"}
{"id": "32495948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32495948", "title": "Commemorative Medal of the Unity of Italy", "text": "Commemorative Medal of the Unity of Italy\n\nThe Italian Risorgimento was celebrated by a series of medals set up by the three kings who ruled during the long process of unification - the Commemorative Medal for the Campaigns of the War of Independence and the various versions of the Commemorative Medal of the Unity of Italy, which were granted by the Kingdom of Italy to those who had taken part in the military operations which had led to Italian independence and later to all who participated in the First World War, since at that time it was traditionally held that Italy completed its unification with the annexation of the Trentino. Its final awards were to participants in the March on Rome and the Impresa di Fiume.\n"}
{"id": "44941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44941", "title": "Dogma", "text": "Dogma\n\nDogma is an official system of principles or tenets of a church, such as Roman Catholicism, or the positions of a philosopher or of a philosophical school such as Stoicism.\n\nIn the pejorative sense, dogma refers to enforced decisions, such as those of aggressive political interests or authorities. More generally, it is applied to some strong belief whose adherents are not willing to rationally discuss it. This attitude is named as a dogmatic one, or as dogmatism; and is often used to refer to matters related to religion, but is not limited to theistic attitudes alone and is often used with respect to political or philosophical dogmas.\n\n\"Dogma\" is transliterated in the 17th century from Latin (Latin: \"dogma\") meaning \"philosophical tenet\", derived from the Greek \"dogma\" (Greek: ) meaning literally \"that which one thinks is true\" and \"dokein\" (Greek: \"dokeo\") \"to seem good\".\n\nFormally, the term dogma has been used by some theistic religious groups to describe the body of positions forming the group's most central, foundational, or essential beliefs, though the term may also be used to refer to the entire set of formal beliefs identified by a theistic or non-theistic religious group. In some cases dogma is distinguished from religious opinion and those things in doctrine considered less significant or uncertain. Formal church dogma is often clarified and elaborated upon in its communication.\n\nView or position (Pali ', Sanskrit ') is a central idea in Buddhism. In Buddhist thought, a view is not a simple, abstract collection of propositions, but a charged interpretation of experience which intensely shapes and affects thought, sensation, and action. Having the proper mental attitude toward views is therefore considered an integral part of the Buddhist path, as sometimes correct views need to put into practice and incorrect views abandoned, and sometimes all views are seen as obstacles to enlightenment.\n\nChristianity is defined by a set of core beliefs shared by virtually all Christians, though how those core beliefs are implemented and secondary questions vary within Christianity. When formally communicated by the organization, these beliefs are sometimes referred to as 'dogmata.' The organization's formal religious positions may be taught to new members or simply communicated to those who choose to become members. It is rare for agreement with an organization's formal positions to be a requirement for attendance, though membership may be required for some church activities. Protestants to differing degrees are less formal about doctrine, and often rely on denomination-specific beliefs, but seldom refer to these beliefs as dogmata. The first unofficial institution of dogma in the Christian church was by Saint Irenaeus in his writing, Demonstration of Apostolic Teaching, which provides a 'manual of essentials' constituting the 'body of truth'. So initially, dogma is concerned with truth.\n\nFor Catholicism and Eastern Christianity, the dogmata are contained in the Nicene Creed and the canon laws of two, three, seven, or twenty ecumenical councils (depending on whether one is \"Nestorian\", Oriental Orthodox, Eastern Orthodox, or Roman Catholic). These tenets are summarized by St. John of Damascus in his \"Exact Exposition of the Orthodox Faith\", which is the third book of his main work, titled \"The Fount of Knowledge\". In this book he takes a dual approach in explaining each article of the faith: one, directed at Christians, where he uses quotes from the Bible and, occasionally, from works of other Fathers of the Church, and the second, directed both at members of non-Christian religions and at atheists, for whom he employs Aristotelian logic and dialectics.\n\nThe decisions of fourteen later councils that Catholics hold as dogmatic and a small number of decrees promulgated by popes exercising papal infallibility (for examples, see Immaculate Conception and Assumption of Mary) are considered as being a part of the Church's sacred body of doctrine.\n\nIn Islam the Latin terms dogma and dogmata are used to describe the Quran\", Hadith\", \"aqidah\".\n\nPyrrhonism's objective is principally psychological, although it is best known for its epistemological arguments, particularly the problem of the criterion and the problem of induction. Through epoché (suspension of judgment) the mind is brought to ataraxia, a state of equanimity. As in Stoicism and Epicureanism, eudaimonia is the Pyrrhonist goal of life, and all three philosophies placed it in ataraxia or apatheia. According to the Pyrrhonists, it is one's opinions about non-evident matters that prevent one from attaining eudaimonia.\n\nThe main principle of Pyrrho's thought is expressed by the word \"acatalepsia\", which connotes the ability to withhold assent from doctrines regarding the truth of things in their own nature; against every statement its contradiction may be advanced with equal justification.\n\nPyrrhonists withhold assent with regard to non-evident propositions, that is, dogma. They disputed that the dogmatists had found truth regarding non-evident matters. For any non-evident matter, a Pyrrhonist tries to make the arguments for and against such that the matter cannot be concluded, thus suspending belief. According to Pyrrhonism, even the statement that nothing can be known is dogmatic. They thus attempted to make their skepticism universal, and to escape the reproach of basing it upon a fresh dogmatism. Mental imperturbability (\"ataraxia\") was the result to be attained by cultivating such a frame of mind.\n\nPyrrhonians (or Pyrrhonism) can be subdivided into those who are ephectic (a \"suspension of judgment\"), zetetic (\"engaged in seeking\"), or aporetic (\"engaged in refutation\").\n\nPyrrhonism is credited with being the first Western school of philosophy to identify the problem of induction, and the Münchhausen trilemma.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18978563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18978563", "title": "Domestic violence", "text": "Domestic violence\n\nDomestic violence (also named domestic abuse or family violence) is violence or other abuse by one person against another in a domestic setting, such as in marriage or cohabitation. It may be termed \"intimate partner violence\" when committed by a spouse or partner in an intimate relationship against the other spouse or partner, and can take place in heterosexual or same-sex relationships, or between former spouses or partners. Domestic violence can also involve violence against children, parents, or the elderly. It takes a number of forms, including physical, verbal, emotional, economic, religious, reproductive, and sexual abuse, which can range from subtle, coercive forms to marital rape and to violent physical abuse such as choking, beating, female genital mutilation, and acid throwing that results in disfigurement or death. Domestic murders include stoning, bride burning, honor killings, and dowry deaths.\n\nGlobally, the victims of domestic violence are overwhelmingly women, and women tend to experience more severe forms of violence. They are also likelier than men to use intimate partner violence in self-defense. In some countries, domestic violence is often seen as justified, particularly in cases of actual or suspected infidelity on the part of the woman, and is legally permitted. Research has established that there exists a direct and significant correlation between a country's level of gender equality and rates of domestic violence, where countries with less gender equality experience higher rates of domestic violence. Domestic violence is among the most underreported crimes worldwide for both men and women. Due to social stigmas regarding male victimization, men face an increased likelihood of being overlooked by healthcare providers.\n\nDomestic violence often occurs when the abuser believes that abuse is an entitlement, acceptable, justified, or unlikely to be reported. It may produce an intergenerational cycle of abuse in children and other family members, who may feel that such violence is acceptable or condoned. Many people do not recognize themselves as abusers or victims because they may consider their experiences as family conflicts that got out of control. Awareness, perception, definition and documentation of domestic violence differs widely from country to country. Domestic violence often happens in the context of forced or child marriage.\n\nIn abusive relationships, there may be a cycle of abuse during which tensions rise and an act of violence is committed, followed by a period of reconciliation and calm. Victims of domestic violence may be trapped in domestic violent situations through isolation, power and control, traumatic bonding to the abuser, cultural acceptance, lack of financial resources, fear, shame, or to protect children. As a result of abuse, victims may experience physical disabilities, dysregulated aggression, chronic health problems, mental illness, limited finances, and poor ability to create healthy relationships. Victims may experience severe psychological disorders, such as post-traumatic stress disorder. Children who live in a household with violence often show psychological problems from an early age, such as avoidance, hypervigilance to threats, and dysregulated aggression which may contribute to vicarious traumatization.\n\nThe first known use of the term domestic violence in a modern context, meaning violence in the home, was in an address to the Parliament of the United Kingdom by Jack Ashley in 1973. The term previously referred primarily to civil unrest, violence from within a country as opposed to violence perpetrated by a foreign power.\n\nTraditionally, domestic violence (DV) was mostly associated with physical violence. Terms such as \"wife abuse\", \"wife beating\", and \"wife\" \"battering\" were used, but have declined in popularity due to efforts to include unmarried partners, abuse other than physical, female perpetrators, and same-sex relationships. Domestic violence is now commonly defined broadly to include \"all acts of physical, sexual, psychological or economic violence\" that may be committed by a family member or intimate partner.\n\nThe term \"intimate partner violence\" is often used synonymously with \"domestic abuse\" or \"domestic violence\", but it specifically refers to violence occurring within a couple relationship (i.e., marriage, cohabitation, or non-cohabitating intimate partners). To these, the World Health Organization (WHO) adds controlling behaviors as a form of abuse. Intimate partner violence has been observed in opposite and same-sex relationships, and in the former instance by both men against women and women against men. \"Family violence\" is a broader term, often used to include child abuse, elder abuse, and other violent acts between family members.\nIn 1993, The United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women defined domestic violence as: Physical, sexual and psychological violence occurring in the family, including battering, sexual abuse of female children in the household, dowry-related violence, marital rape, female genital mutilation and other traditional practices harmful to women, non-spousal violence and violence related to exploitation.\n\nPrior to the mid-1800s, most legal systems viewed wife beating as a valid exercise of a husband's authority over his wife. One exception, however, was the 1641 Body of Liberties of the Massachusetts Bay colonists, which declared that a married woman should be \"free from bodilie correction or stripes by her husband.\"\n\nPolitical agitation and the first-wave feminist movement during the 19th century led to changes in both popular opinion and legislation regarding domestic violence within the United Kingdom, the United States and other countries. In 1850, Tennessee became the first state in the United States to explicitly outlaw wife beating. Other states soon followed. In 1878, the UK Matrimonial Causes Act made it possible for women in the UK to seek legal separation from an abusive husband. By the end of the 1870s, most courts in the United States had rejected a claimed right of husbands to physically discipline their wives. By the early 20th century, it was common for police to intervene in cases of domestic violence in the United States, but arrests remained rare.\n\nIn most legal systems around the world, domestic violence has been addressed only from the 1990s onwards; indeed, before the late-20th century, in most countries there was very little protection, in law or in practice, against DV. In 1993, the UN published \"Strategies for Confronting Domestic Violence: A Resource Manual\". This publication urged countries around the world to treat DV as a criminal act, stated that the right to a private family life does not include the right to abuse family members, and acknowledged that, at the time of its writing, most legal systems considered DV to be largely outside the scope of the law, describing the situation at that time as follows: \"Physical discipline of children is allowed and, indeed, encouraged in many legal systems and a large number of countries allow moderate physical chastisement of a wife or, if they do not do so now, have done so within the last 100 years. Again, most legal systems fail to criminalize circumstances where a wife is forced to have sexual relations with her husband against her will. [...] Indeed, in the case of violence against wives, there is a widespread belief that women provoke, can tolerate or even enjoy a certain level of violence from their spouses.\"\nIn recent decades, there has been a call for the end of legal impunity for domestic violence, an impunity often based on the idea that such acts are private. The Istanbul Convention is the first legally binding instrument in Europe dealing with domestic violence and violence against women. The convention seeks to put an end to the toleration, in law or in practice, of violence against women and DV. In its explanatory report it acknowledges the long tradition of European countries of ignoring, \"de jure\" or \"de facto\", these forms of violence. At para 219, it states: \"There are many examples from past practice in Council of Europe member states that show that exceptions to the prosecution of such cases were made, either in law or in practice, if victim and perpetrator were, for example, married to each other or had been in a relationship. The most prominent example is rape within marriage, which for a long time had not been recognised as rape because of the relationship between victim and perpetrator.\"\n\nThere has been increased attention given to specific forms of domestic violence, such as honor killings, dowry deaths, and forced marriages. India has, in recent decades, made efforts to curtail dowry violence: the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act (PWDVA) was enacted in 2005, following years of advocacy and activism by the women's organizations. Crimes of passion in Latin America, a region which has a history of treating such killings with extreme leniency, have also come to international attention. In 2002, Widney Brown, advocacy director for Human Rights Watch, argued that there are similarities between the dynamics of crimes of passion and honor killings, stating that: \"crimes of passion have a similar dynamic [to honor killings] in that the women are killed by male family members and the crimes are perceived as excusable or understandable\".\n\nHistorically, children had few protections from violence by their parents, and in many parts of the world, this is still the case. For example, in Ancient Rome, a father could legally kill his children. Many cultures have allowed fathers to sell their children into slavery. Child sacrifice was also a common practice. Child maltreatment began to garner mainstream attention with the publication of \"The Battered Child Syndrome\" by pediatric psychiatrist C. Henry Kempe. Prior to this, injuries to children—even repeated bone fractures—were not commonly recognized as the results of intentional trauma. Instead, physicians often looked for undiagnosed bone diseases or accepted parents' accounts of accidental mishaps such as falls or assaults by neighborhood bullies.\n\nNot all domestic violence is equivalent. Differences in frequency, severity, purpose, and outcome are all significant. Domestic violence can take many forms, including physical aggression or assault (hitting, kicking, biting, shoving, restraining, slapping, throwing objects, beating up, etc.), or threats thereof; sexual abuse; controlling or domineering; intimidation; stalking; passive/covert abuse (e.g., neglect); and economic deprivation. It can also mean endangerment, criminal coercion, kidnapping, unlawful imprisonment, trespassing, and harassment.\n\nPhysical abuse is that involving contact intended to cause fear, pain, injury, other physical suffering or bodily harm. In the context of coercive control, physical abuse is to control the victim. The dynamics of physical abuse in a relationship are often complex. Physical violence can be the culmination of other abusive behavior, such as threats, intimidation, and restriction of victim self-determination through isolation, manipulation and other limitations of personal freedom. Denying medical care, sleep deprivation, and forced drug or alcohol use, are also forms of physical abuse. It can also include inflicting physical injury onto other targets, such as children or pets, in order to cause emotional harm to the victim.\n\nStrangulation in the context of DV has received significant attention. It is now recognized as one of the most lethal forms of DV; yet, because of the lack of external injuries, and the lack of social awareness and medical training in regard to it, strangulation has often been a hidden problem. As a result, in recent years, many US states have enacted specific laws against strangulation.\n\nHomicide as a result of domestic violence makes up a greater proportion of female homicides than it does male homicides. More than 50% of female homicides are committed by former or current intimate partners in the US. In the United Kingdom, 37 percent of murdered women were killed by an intimate partner compared to 6 percent for men. Between 40 and 70 percent of women murdered in Canada, Australia, South Africa, Israel and the United States were killed by an intimate partner. The World Health Organization states that globally, about 38% of female homicides are committed by an intimate partner.\n\nDuring pregnancy, a woman is at higher risk to be abused or long-standing abuse may change in severity, causing negative health effects to the mother and fetus. Pregnancy can also lead to a hiatus of domestic violence when the abuser does not want to harm the unborn child. The risk of domestic violence for women who have been pregnant is greatest immediately after childbirth.\nAcid attacks, are an extreme form of violence in which acid is thrown at the victims, usually their faces, resulting in extensive damage including long-term blindness and permanent scarring. These are commonly a form of revenge against a woman for rejecting a marriage proposal or sexual advance.\n\nIn the Middle East and other parts of the world, planned domestic homicides, or honor killings, are carried out due to the belief of the perpetrators that the victim has brought dishonor upon the family or community. According to Human Rights Watch, honor killings are generally performed against women for \"refusing to enter into an arranged marriage, being the victim of a sexual assault, seeking a divorce\" or being accused of committing adultery. In some parts of the world, where there is a strong social expectation for a woman to be a virgin prior to marriage, a bride may be subjected to extreme violence, including an honor killing, if she is deemed not to be a virgin on her wedding night due to the absence of blood.\n\nBride burning or dowry killing is a form of domestic violence in which a newly married woman is killed at home by her husband or husband's family due to their dissatisfaction over the dowry provided by her family. The act is often a result of demands for more or prolonged dowry after the marriage. Dowry violence is most common in South Asia, especially in India. In 2011, the National Crime Records Bureau reported 8,618 dowry deaths in India, but unofficial figures estimate at least three times this amount.\n\nSexual abuse, is defined by World Health Organization as any sexual act, attempt to obtain a sexual act, unwanted sexual comments or advances, or acts to traffic, or otherwise directed, against a person’s sexuality using coercion. It also includes obligatory inspections for virginity and female genital mutilation. Aside from initiation of the sexual act through physical force, sexual abuse occurs if a person is verbally pressured into consenting, unable to understand the nature or condition of the act, unable to decline participation, or unable to communicate unwillingness to engage in the sexual act. This could be because of underage immaturity, illness, disability, or the influence of alcohol or other drugs, or due to intimidation or pressure.\n\nIn many cultures, victims of rape are considered to have brought 'dishonour' or 'disgrace' to their families and face severe familial violence, including honor killings. This is especially the case if the victim becomes pregnant.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is defined by WHO as \"all procedures that involve partial or total removal of the external female genitalia, or other injury to the female genital organs for non-medical reasons.\" This procedure has been performed on more than 125 million females alive today, and it is concentrated in 29 countries in Africa and Middle East.\n\nIncest, or sexual contact between an adult and a child, is one form of familial sexual violence. In some cultures, there are ritualized forms of child sexual abuse taking place with the knowledge and consent of the family, where the child is induced to engage in sexual acts with adults, possibly in exchange for money or goods. For instance, in Malawi some parents arrange for an older man, often called \"hyena\", to have sex with their daughters as a form of initiation. The Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse was the first international treaty to address child sexual abuse occurring within the home or family.\n\nReproductive coercion (also called \"coerced reproduction\") are threats or acts of violence against a partner's reproductive rights, health and decision-making; and includes a collection of behaviors intended to pressure or coerce a partner into becoming pregnant or ending a pregnancy. Reproductive coercion is associated with forced sex, fear of or inability to make contraceptive decision, fear of violence after refusing sex, and abusive partner interference with access to healthcare.\n\nIn some cultures, marriage imposes a social obligation for women to reproduce. In northern Ghana, for example, payment of bride price signifies a woman's requirement to bear children, and women using birth control face threats of violence and reprisals.\nWHO includes forced marriage, cohabitation, and pregnancy including wife inheritance within its definition of sexual violence. Wife inheritance, or levirate marriage, is a type of marriage in which the brother of a deceased man is obliged to marry his widow, and the widow is obliged to marry her deceased husband's brother.\n\nMarital rape is non-consensual penetration perpetrated against a spouse. It is under-reported, under-prosecuted, and legal in many countries, due in part to the belief that through marriage, a woman gives irrevocable consent for her husband to have sex with her when he wishes. In Lebanon, for instance, while discussing a proposed law that would criminalize marital rape, Sheik Ahmad Al-Kurdi, a judge in the Sunni religious court, said that the law \"could lead to the imprisonment of the man where in reality he is exercising the least of his marital rights.\" Feminists have worked systematically since the 1960s to criminalize marital rape internationally. In 2006, a study by the United Nations found that marital rape was a prosecutable offense in at least 104 countries Once widely condoned or ignored by law and society, marital rape is now repudiated by international conventions and increasingly criminalized. The countries which ratified the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, the first legally binding instrument in Europe in the field of violence against women, are bound by its provisions to ensure that non-consensual sexual acts committed against a spouse or partner are illegal. The convention came into force in August 2014.\n\nEmotional abuse (or psychological abuse) is a pattern of behavior that threatens, intimidates, dehumanizes or systematically undermines self-worth. According to the Istanbul Convention, psychological violence is \"the intentional conduct of seriously impairing a person’s psychological integrity through coercion or threats\".\n\nEmotional abuse includes minimising, threats, isolation, public humiliation, unrelenting criticism, constant personal devaluation, repeated stonewalling and gaslighting. Stalking is a common form of psychological intimidation, and is most often perpetrated by former or current intimate partners. Victims tend to feel their partner has nearly total control over them, greatly affecting the power dynamic in a relationship, empowering the perpetrator, and disempowering the victim. Victims often suffer from depression, putting them at increased risk of eating disorders, suicide, and drug and alcohol abuse.\n\nEconomic abuse (or financial abuse) is a form of abuse when one intimate partner has control over the other partner's access to economic resources. Marital assets are used as a means of control. Economic abuse may involve preventing a spouse from resource acquisition, limiting what the victim may use, or by otherwise exploiting economic resources of the victim. Economic abuse diminishes the victim's capacity to support themselves, increasing dependence on the perpetrator, including reduced access to education, employment, career advancement, and assets acquirement. Forcing or pressuring a family member to sign documents, to sell things, or to change a will are forms of economic abuse.\n\nA victim may be put on an allowance, allowing close monitoring of money is spent, preventing spending without perpetrator consent, leading to the accumulation of debt or depletion of the victim's savings. Disagreement about money spent can result in retaliation with additional physical, sexual or emotional abuse. In parts of the world where women depend on husbands' income in order to survive (due to lack of opportunities for female employment and lack of state welfare) economic abuse can have very severe consequences. Abusive relations have been associated with malnutrition among both mothers and children. In India, for example, the withholding of food is a documented form of family abuse.\n\nDomestic violence occurs across the world, in various cultures, and affects people of all economic statuses; however, indicators of lower socioeconomic status (such as unemployment and low income) have been shown to be risk factors for higher levels of domestic violence in several studies.\n\nThere continues to be some debate regarding gender differences with relation to domestic violence. Limitations of methodology, such as the conflict tactics scale, that fail to capture injury, homicide, and sexual violence rates, context (e.g., motivations, fear), disparate sampling procedures, respondent reluctance to self-report, and differences in operationalization all pose challenges to existing research. Normalization of domestic violence in those who experience covert forms of abuse, or have been abused by multiple partners, for long periods of time, reduces the likelihood of recognizing, and therefore reporting, domestic violence. Many organizations have made efforts to use gender-neutral terms when referring to perpetration and victimization. For example, using broader terms like \"family violence\" rather than \"violence against women\".\n\nFindings indicate that the main or a primary motive for female-on-male intimate partner violence (IPV) is self-defense or other self-protection (such as emotional health). Sherry Hamby states that males' self-reports of victimization are unreliable, as they consistently underreport their own violence perpetration. Hamby also reports that both men and women use IPV for coercive control. Coercive control is when one person uses a variety of IPV tactics to control and dominate the other, with little empathy; victims often resist with physical violence. It is generally perpetrated by men against women, and is the most likely of the types to cause trauma bonding and require medical services. A 2010 systematic review of the literature on women's perpetration of IPV found that anger, self-defense and retaliation were common motivations but that distinguishing between self-defense and retaliation was difficult. Family violence research by Murray A. Straus concluded that most IPV perpetrated by women against men is not motivated by self-defense. This has been criticized by scholars for using narrow definitions of self-defense. A 2011 review by researcher Chan Ko Ling from the University of Hong Kong found that perpetration of minor partner violence was equal for both men and women but more severe partner violence was far likelier to be perpetrated by men. His analysis found that men were more likely to beat up, choke or strangle their partners while women were more likely to throw objects, slap, kick, bite, punch, or hit with an object.\n\nResearchers have also found different outcomes for men and women in response to intimate partner violence. A 2012 review from the journal \"Psychology of Violence\" found that women suffered disproportionately as a result of intimate partner violence, especially in terms of injuries, fear, and posttraumatic stress disorder. The review also found that 70% of female victims in one study were \"very frightened\" in response to IPV from their partners, but 85% of male victims reported \"no fear\", and that IPV mediated the satisfaction of the relationship for women but not for men. Hamberger's (2005) review found that men tend to respond to female partner-initiated IPV with laughter and amusement. Researchers report that male violence causes great fear, \"fear is the force that provides battering with its power\" and \"injuries help sustain the fear.\"\n\nA 2013 review examined studies from five continents and the correlation between a country's level of gender inequality and rates of domestic violence. The authors found that when partner abuse is defined broadly to include emotional abuse, any kind of hitting, and who hits first, partner abuse is relatively even. They also stated if one examines who is physically harmed and how seriously, expresses more fear, and experiences subsequent psychological problems, domestic violence is significantly gendered toward women as victims.\n\nLaws on domestic violence vary by country. While it is generally outlawed in the Western world, this is not the case in many developing countries. For instance, in 2010, the United Arab Emirates's Supreme Court ruled that a man has the right to physically discipline his wife and children as long as he does not leave physical marks. The social acceptability of domestic violence also differs by country. While in most developed countries domestic violence is considered unacceptable by most people, in many regions of the world the views are different: according to a UNICEF survey, the percentage of women aged 15–49 who think that a husband is justified in hitting or beating his wife under certain circumstances is, for example: 90% in Afghanistan and Jordan, 87% in Mali, 86% in Guinea and Timor-Leste, 81% in Laos, 80% in Central African Republic. Refusing to submit to a husband's wishes is a common reason given for justification of violence in developing countries: for instance 62.4% of women in Tajikistan justify wife beating if the wife goes out without telling the husband; 68% if she argues with him; 47.9% if she refuses to have sex with him.\n\nThe United Nations Population Fund found violence against women and girls to be one of the most prevalent human rights violations worldwide, stating that \"one in three women will experience physical or sexual abuse in her lifetime.\" Violence against women tends to be less prevalent in developed Western nations, and more normalized in the developing world.\n\nWife beating was made illegal nationally in the United States by 1920. Although the exact rates are disputed, there is a large body of cross-cultural evidence that women are subjected to domestic violence significantly more often than men. In addition, there is broad consensus that women are more often subjected to severe forms of abuse and are more likely to be injured by an abusive partner, and this is exacerbated by economic or social dependence.\n\nThe United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women (1993) states that \"violence against women is a manifestation of historically unequal power relations between men and women, which has led to domination over and discrimination against women by men and to the prevention of the full advancement of women, and that violence against women is one of the crucial social mechanisms by which women are forced into a subordinate position compared with men\".\nThe Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women classifies violence against women into three categories: that occurring in the family (DV), that occurring within the general community, and that perpetrated or condoned by the State.\n\nThe Inter-American Convention on the Prevention, Punishment, and Eradication of Violence against Women defines violence against women as \"any act or conduct, based on gender, which causes death or physical, sexual or psychological harm or suffering to women, whether in the public or the private sphere\". Similarly with the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women, it classifies violence against women into three categories; one of which being DV – defined as violence against women which takes place \"within the family or domestic unit or within any other interpersonal relationship, whether or not the perpetrator shares or has shared the same residence with the woman\".\nThe Maputo Protocol adopted a broader definition, defining violence against women as: \"all acts perpetrated against women which cause or could cause them physical, sexual, psychological, and economic harm, including the threat to take such acts; or to undertake the imposition of arbitrary restrictions on or deprivation of fundamental freedoms in private or public life in peace time and during situations of armed conflicts or of war\".\n\nThe Istanbul Convention states: \"\"violence against women\" is understood as a violation of human rights \"and a form of discrimination against women\" (...)\". (Article 3 – Definitions). In the landmark case of \"Opuz v Turkey\", the European Court of Human Rights held for the first time that gender-based domestic violence is a form of discrimination under the European Convention.\n\nAccording to one study, the percentage of women who have reported being physically abused by an intimate partner vary from 69% to 10% depending on the country. In the United States, it is estimated that intimate partner violence accounts for 15% of all violent crime. The latest research (2017) by the CDC found that over half of all female homicides are committed by intimate partners, 98 percent of whom are men.\n\nFemicide is usually defined as the gender-based killing of women by men, although the exact definitions vary. Femicides often occur in the context of DV, such as honor killings or dowry killings. For statistical purposes, femicide is often defined as any killing of a woman. The top countries by rate of femicide are El Salvador, Jamaica, Guatemala, South Africa and Russia (data from 2004–09). However, in El Salvador and Colombia, which have a very high rate of femicide, only three percent of all femicides are committed by a current or former intimate partner, while in Cyprus, France, and Portugal former and current partners are responsible for more than 80% of all cases of femicide.\n\nDomestic violence against men includes physical, emotional and sexual forms of abuse, including mutual violence. Male domestic violence victims may be reluctant to get help for various reasons. One study investigated whether women who assaulted their male partners were more likely to avoid arrest even when the male contacts police, and found that, \"police are particularly unlikely to arrest women who assault their male partners.\" The reason being that they \"assume that the man can protect himself from his female partner and that a woman's violence is not dangerous unless she assaults someone other than her partner\". Another study concluded there is \"some support for qualitative research suggesting that court personnel are responsive to the gendered asymmetry of intimate partner violence, and may view female intimate violence perpetrators more as victims than offenders.\"\n\nAmong adolescents, researchers have primarily focused on heterosexual Caucasian populations. The literature indicates that rates are similar for the number of girls and boys in heterosexual relationships who report experiencing intimate partner violence (IPV), or that girls in heterosexual relationships are more likely than their male counterparts to report perpetrating IPV. Ely et al. stated that, unlike domestic violence in general, equal rates of IPV perpetration is a unique characteristic with regard to adolescent dating violence, and that this is \"perhaps because the period of adolescence, a special developmental state, is accompanied by sexual characteristics that are distinctly different from the characteristics of adult.\" Wekerle and Wolfe theorized that \"a mutually coercive and violent dynamic may form during adolescence, a time when males and females are more equal on a physical level\" and that this \"physical equality allows girls to assert more power through physical violence than is possible for an adult female attacked by a fully physically mature man.\" Sherry Hamby stated that horseplay and joking among adolescents and young adults is common and that \"a small but growing body of research indicates that females may be more likely to include this sort of joking around in responses to IPV questionnaires than males.\" \n\nWhile the general literature indicates that adolescent boys and girls engage in IPV at about equal rates, females are more likely to use less dangerous forms of physical violence (e.g. pushing, pinching, slapping, scratching or kicking), while males are more likely to punch, strangle, beat, burn, or threaten with weapons. Males are also more likely to use sexual aggression, although both genders are equally likely to pressure their partner into sexual activities. In addition, females are four times more likely to respond as having experienced rape and are more likely to suffer fatal injuries inflicted by their partner, or to need psychological help as a result of the abuse. Females are more likely to consider IPV a serious problem than are their male counterparts, who are more likely to disregard female-perpetrated IPV. Along with form, motivations for violence also vary by gender: females are likely to perpetrate violence in self-defense, while males are likely to perpetrate violence to exert power or control. The self-defense aspect is supported by findings that previous victimization is a stronger predictor of perpetration in females than in males. Other research indicates that boys who have been abused in childhood by a family member are more prone to IPV perpetration, while girls who have been abused in childhood by a family member are prone to lack empathy and self-efficacy; but the risks for the likelihood of IPV perpetration and victimization among adolescents vary and are not well understood. Hamby's 2018 literature review of 33 studies, using a scale that rules out the false positives of horseplay and joking, indicates that males report perpetrating significantly more violence than females.\n\nThere is a strong link between domestic violence and child abuse. Since domestic violence is a pattern of behavior, these incidences may increase in severity and frequency, resulting in an increased probability the children themselves will become victims. The estimated overlap between domestic violence and child abuse ranges from 30 to 50 percent.\n\nToday, corporal punishment of children by their parents remains legal in most countries, but in Western countries that still allow the practice there are strict limits on what is permitted. The first country to outlaw parental corporal punishment was Sweden (parents' right to spank their own children was first removed in 1966), and it was explicitly prohibited by law from July 1979. As of 2016, parental corporal punishment is banned in 51 countries.\n\nHistorically, domestic violence has been seen as a heterosexual family issue and little interest has been directed at violence in same-sex relationships, but domestic violence can occur in same-sex relationships as well. The \"Encyclopedia of Victimology and Crime Prevention\" states, \"For several methodological reasons – nonrandom sampling procedures and self-selection factors, among others – it is not possible to assess the extent of same-sex domestic violence. Studies on abuse between gay male or lesbian partners usually rely on small convenience samples such as lesbian or gay male members of an association.\"\n\nA 1999 analysis of nineteen studies of partner abuse concluded that \"[r]esearch suggests that lesbians and gay men are just as likely to abuse their partners as heterosexual men.\" In 2011, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released the 2010 results of their National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey and report that 44% of lesbian women, 61% of bisexual women, and 35% of heterosexual women experienced domestic violence in their lifetime. This same report states that 26% of gay men, 37% of bisexual men, and 29% of heterosexual men experienced domestic violence in their lifetime. A 2013 study showed that 40.4% of self-identified lesbians and 56.9% of bisexual women have reported being victims of partner violence. In 2014, national surveys indicated that anywhere from 25–50% of gay and bisexual males have experienced physical violence from a partner.\nSome sources state that gay and lesbian couples experience domestic violence at the same frequency as heterosexual couples, while other sources state domestic violence among gay, lesbian, and bisexual individuals might be higher than among heterosexual individuals, that gay, lesbian, and bisexual individuals are less likely to report domestic violence that has occurred in their intimate relationships than heterosexual couples are, or that lesbian couples experience domestic violence less than heterosexual couples do. One study focusing on Hispanic men indicated that gay men are less likely to have been perpetrators or victims of domestic violence than heterosexual men but that bisexual men are more likely to have been both. By contrast, some researchers commonly assume that lesbian couples experience domestic violence at the same rate as heterosexual couples, and have been more cautious when reporting domestic violence among gay male couples.\nGay and lesbian relationships have been identified as a risk factor for abuse in certain populations. LGBT people in some parts of the world have very little legal protection from DV, because engaging in homosexual acts is itself prohibited by the \"sodomy laws\" of those jurisdictions (as of 2014, same-sex sexual acts are punishable by imprisonment in 70 countries and by death in another 5 countries) and these legal prohibitions prevent LGBT victims of DV from reporting the abuse to authorities. In the face of the 2003 Supreme Court decision, 13 US states have refused to remove sodomy laws from legislation as of 2013.\n\nPeople in same-sex relationships face special obstacles in dealing with the issues that some researchers have labeled \"the double closet\". A 1997 Canadian study by Mark W. Lehman suggests similarities include frequency (approximately one in every four couples); manifestations (emotional, physical, financial, etc.); co-existent situations (unemployment, substance abuse, low self-esteem); victims' reactions (fear, feelings of helplessness, hypervigilance); and reasons for staying (love, can work it out, things will change, denial). Studies conducted by Emory University in 2014 identified 24 trigger for partner violence through web-based surveys, ranging from drugs and alcohol to safe-sex discussions. A general theme of power and control seems to underlie abuse in both heterosexual and homosexual relationships.\n\nAt the same time, significant differences, unique issues, and deceptive myths are typically present. Lehman, regarding his 1997 survey, points to added discrimination and fears that gay and lesbian individuals may face. This includes potential dismissal by police and some social services, a lack of support from peers, fear of attracting negative stigma toward the gay community, the impact of HIV/AIDS status in keeping partners together (due to health care insurance/access, or guilt), threat of outing, and encountering supportive services that are targeted, or structured for the needs of heterosexual women, and may not meet the needs of gay men or lesbians. This service structure can make LGBTQ victims feel even more isolated and misunderstood than they may already because of their minority status. Lehman, however, stated that \"due to the limited number of returned responses and non-random sampling methodology the findings of this work are not generalizable beyond the sample\" of 32 initial respondents and final 10 who completed the more in-depth survey. Particularly, sexual stressors and HIV/AIDS status have emerged as significant differences in same-sex partner violence.\n\nDV is among the most underreported crimes worldwide for both men and women. A 2011 review article by intimate partner violence researcher Ko Ling Chan found men tended to under-report their own perpetration of domestic violence while women were more likely to under-report their victimization and over-estimate their own violence perpetration. Financial or familial dependence, normalization of violence, and self-blaming were found to reduce the likelihood of self-reporting victimization in women. By contrast, fear and avoidance of legal consequences, the tendency to blame their partner, and a narrative focus on their own needs and emotions reduced the likelihood of self-reporting perpetration in men.\n\nA 2014 study conducted across the 28 member states of the European Union found that only 14% of women reported their most serious incident of intimate partner violence to the police. A 2009 report on DV in Northern Ireland found that \"under-reporting is a concern and domestic abuse is the least likely of all violent crimes to be reported to the police\".\n\nMen face additional gender related barriers in reporting, due to social stigmas regarding male victimization, and an increased likelihood of being overlooked by healthcare providers.\n\nSocial views on domestic violence vary from person to person, and from region to region, but in many places outside the West, the concept is very poorly understood. This is because in most of these countries the relation between the husband and wife is not considered one of equals, but instead one in which the wife must submit herself to the husband. This is codified in the laws of some countries – for example, in Yemen, marriage regulations state that a wife must obey her husband and must not leave home without his permission.\n\nAccording to \"Violence against Women in Families and Relationships\", \"Globally, wife-beating is seen as justified in some circumstances by a majority of the population in various countries, most commonly in situations of actual or suspected infidelity by wives or their \"disobedience\" toward a husband or partner.\" These violent acts against a wife are often not considered a form of abuse by society (both men and women) but are considered to have been provoked by the behavior of the wife, who is seen as being at fault. While beatings of wives are often a response to \"inappropriate\" behaviors, in many places extreme acts such as honor killings are approved by a high section of the society. In one survey, 33.4% of teenagers in Jordan's capital city, Amman, approved of honor killings. This survey was carried in the capital of Jordan, which is much more liberal than other parts of the country; the researchers said that \"We would expect that in the more rural and traditional parts of Jordan, support for honor killings would be even higher\".\n\nIn a 2012 news story, \"The Washington Post\" reported, \"The Reuters TrustLaw group named India one of the worst countries in the world for women this year, partly because domestic violence there is often seen as deserved. A 2012 report by UNICEF found that 57 percent of Indian boys and 53 percent of girls between the ages of 15 and 19 think wife-beating is justified.\"\n\nIn conservative cultures, a wife dressing in attire deemed insufficiently modest can suffer serious violence at the hands of her husband or relatives, with such violent responses seen as appropriate by most of the society: in a survey, 62.8% of women in Afghanistan said that a husband is justified in beating his wife if she wears inappropriate clothes.\n\nAccording to Antonia Parvanova, one of the difficulties of dealing legally with the issue of DV is that men in many male dominated societies do not understand that inflicting violence against their wives is against the law. She said, referring to a case that occurred in Bulgaria, \"A husband was tried for severely beating his wife and when the judge asked him if he understood what he did and if he's sorry, the husband said \"But she's my wife\". He doesn't even understand that he has no right to beat her.\" UNFPA writes that: \n\"In some developing countries, practices that subjugate and harm women – such as wife-beating, killings in the name of honour, female genital mutilation/cutting and dowry deaths – are condoned as being part of the natural order of things\".\n\nStrong views among the population in certain societies that reconciliation is more appropriate than punishment in cases of domestic violence are also another cause of legal impunity; a study found that 64% of public officials in Colombia said that if it were in their hands to solve a case of intimate partner violence, the action they would take would be to encourage the parties to reconcile.\n\nVictim blaming is also prevalent in many societies, including in Western countries: a 2010 Eurobarometer poll found that 52% of respondents agreed with the assertion that the \"provocative behaviour of women\" was a cause of violence against women; with respondents in Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta and Slovenia being most likely to agree with the assertion (more than 70% in each of these countries).\n\nThere is controversy regarding the influence of religion on domestic violence. According to \"Domestic Violence Cross Cultural Perspective\": \"No religion sanctions violence against women\", but there are some religious scriptures that have been \"taken out of context\" to support discrimination against women within a community.\n\nJudaism, Christianity and Islam have traditionally supported male-dominant households and \"socially sanctioned violence against women has been persistent since ancient times.\"\n\nThe Catholic Church has been criticized for opposing divorce, and therefore trapping victims of violence in abusive marriages.\n\nAt the same time, religious leaders can play an important role in preventing and treating domestic violence, when they provide abusers with guidance and treatment option information, and offer their support to those who have been subject to abuse.\n\nViews on the influence of religion on domestic violence differ. While some authors, such as Phyllis Chesler, argue that Islam is connected to violence against women, especially in the form of honor killings, others, such as Tahira Shahid Khan, a professor specializing in women's issues at the Aga Khan University in Pakistan, argue that it is the domination of men and inferior status of women in society that lead to these acts, not the religion itself. Public (such as through the media) and political discourse debating the relation between Islam, immigration, and violence against women is highly controversial in many Western countries.\n\nLocal customs and traditions are often responsible for maintaining certain forms of DV. Such customs and traditions include son preference (the desire of a family to have a boy and not a girl, which is strongly prevalent in parts of Asia), which can lead to abuse and neglect of girl children by disappointed family members; child and forced marriages; dowry; the hierarchic caste system which stigmatizes \"lower castes\" and \"untouchables\", leading to discrimination and restricted opportunities of the females and thus making them more vulnerable to abuse; strict dress codes for women that may be enforced through violence by family members; strong requirement of female virginity before the wedding and violence related to non-conforming women and girls; taboos about menstruation leading to females being isolated and shunned during the time of menstruation; female genital mutilation (FGM); ideologies of marital 'conjugal rights' to sex which justify marital rape; the importance given to 'family honor'.\n\nAccording to a 2003 report by Human Rights Watch, \"Customs such as the payment of 'bride price' (payment made by a man to the family of a woman he wishes to marry), whereby a man essentially purchases his wife’s sexual favors and reproductive capacity, underscore men’s socially sanctioned entitlement to dictate the terms of sex, and to use force to do so.\"\n\nIn recent years, there has been progress in the area of addressing customary practices that endanger women, with laws being enacted in several countries. The Inter-African Committee on Traditional Practices Affecting the Health of Women and Children is an NGO which works on changing social values, raising consciousness, and enacting laws against harmful traditions which affect the health of women and children in Africa. Laws were also enacted in some countries; for example the 2004 Criminal Code of Ethiopia has a chapter on harmful traditional practices – \"Chapter III – Crimes committed against life, person and health through harmful traditional practices\". In addition, the Council of Europe adopted a convention which addresses domestic violence and violence against women, and calls for the states which ratify it to create and fully adjudicate laws against acts of violence previously condoned by traditional, culture, custom, in the name of honor, or to correct what is deemed unacceptable behavior. The United Nations created the \"Handbook on effective police responses to violence against women\" to provide guidelines to address and manage violence through the creation of effective laws, law enforcement policies and practices and community activities to break down societal norms that condone violence, criminalize it and create effect support systems for survivors of violence.\n\nIn cultures where the police and legal authorities have a reputation of corruption and abusive practices, victims of DV are often reluctant to turn to formal help.\n\nA forced marriage is a marriage where one or both participants are married without their freely given consent. In many parts of the world, it is often difficult to draw a line between 'forced' and 'consensual' marriage: in many cultures (especially in South Asia, the Middle East and parts of Africa), marriages are prearranged, often as soon a girl is born; the idea of a girl going against the wishes of her family and choosing herself her own future husband is not socially accepted – there is no need to use threats or violence to force the marriage, the future bride will submit because she simply has no other choice. As in the case of child marriage, the customs of dowry and bride price contribute to this phenomenon. A child marriage is a marriage where one or both parties are younger than 18.\n\nForced and child marriages are associated with a high rate of domestic violence. These types of marriages are related to violence both in regard to the spousal violence perpetrated inside marriage, and in regard to the violence related to the customs and traditions of these marriage: violence and trafficking related to the payment of dowry and bride price, honor killings for refusing the marriage.\n\nUNFPA states, \"Despite near-universal commitments to end child marriage, one in three girls in developing countries (excluding China) will probably be married before they are 18. One out of nine girls will be married before their 15th birthday.\" UNFPA estimates, \"Over 67 million women 20–24 year old in 2010 had been married as girls, half of which were in Asia, and one-fifth in Africa.\" UNFPA says that, \"In the next decade 14.2 million girls under 18 will be married every year; this translates into 39,000 girls married each day and this will rise to an average of 15.1 million girls a year, starting in 2021 until 2030, if present trends continue.\" \n\nThe World Health Organization has stated that women in abusive relations are at significantly higher risk of HIV/AIDS. WHO states that women in violent relations have difficulty negotiating safer sex with their partners, are often forced to have sex, and find it difficult to ask for appropriate testing when they think they may be infected with HIV. A decade of cross-sectional research from Rwanda, Tanzania, South Africa, and India, has consistently found women who have experienced partner violence to be more likely to be infected with HIV. The WHO stated that:\nThere is a compelling case to end intimate partner violence both in its own right as well as to reduce women and girls vulnerability to HIV/AIDS. The evidence on the linkages between violence against women and HIV/AIDS highlights that there are direct and indirect mechanisms by which the two interact.\n\nSame-sex relationships are similarly affected by HIV/AIDS status in domestic violence. Research by Heintz and Melendez found that same-sex individuals may have difficulty breaching the topic of safe-sex for reasons such as \"decreased perception of control over sex, fear of violence, and unequal power distributions...\" Of those who reported violence in the study, about 50% reported forced sexual experiences, of which only half reported the use of safe sex measures. Barriers to safer-sex included fear of abuse, and deception in safe-sex practices. Heintz and Melendez's research ultimately concluded that sexual assault/abuse in same-sex relationships provides a major concern for HIV/AIDS infection as it decreases instances of safe-sex. Furthermore, these incidents create additional fear and stigma surrounding safe-sex conversations and knowing ones STD status.\n\nLack of adequate legislation which criminalizes domestic violence, or, alternatively legislation which prohibits consensual behaviors, may hinder the progress in regard to reducing the incidence of DV. Amnesty International’s Secretary General has stated that: \"It is unbelievable that in the twenty-first century some countries are condoning child marriage and marital rape while others are outlawing abortion, sex outside marriage and same-sex sexual activity – even punishable by death.\" According to WHO, \"one of the most common forms of violence against women is that performed by a husband or male partner.\" The WHO notes that such violence is often ignored because often \"legal systems and cultural norms do not treat as a crime, but rather as a 'private' family matter, or a normal part of life.\" The criminalization of adultery has been cited as inciting violence against women, as these prohibitions are often meant, in law or in practice, to control women's and not men's behavior; and are used to rationalize acts of violence against women. According to High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay: \"Some have argued, and continue to argue, that family violence is placed outside the conceptual framework of international human rights. However, under international laws and standards, there is a clear State responsibility to uphold women’s rights and ensure freedom from discrimination, which includes the responsibility to prevent, protect and provide redress – regardless of sex, and regardless of a person’s status in the family.\"\n\nThe ability of victims of domestic violence to leave the relationship is crucial for preventing further abuse. In traditional communities, divorced women often feel rejected and ostracized. In order to avoid this stigma, many women prefer to remain in the marriage and endure the abuse.\n\nDiscriminatory marriage and divorce laws can also play a role in the proliferation of the practice. According to Rashida Manjoo, a United Nations special rapporteur on violence against women: in many countries a woman’s access to property hinges on her relationship to a man. When she separates from her husband or when he dies, she risks losing her home, land, household goods and other property. Failure to ensure equal property rights upon separation or divorce discourages women from leaving violent marriages, as women may be forced to choose between violence at home and destitution in the street.\n\nThe legal inability to obtain a divorce is also a factor in the proliferation of domestic violence. In some cultures where marriages are arranged between families, a woman who attempts a separation or divorce without the consent of her husband and extended family or relatives may risk being subjected to \"honor\"- based violence.\n\nThe custom of bride price also makes leaving a marriage more difficult: if a wife want to leave, the husband may demand back the bride price from her family.\n\nIn advanced nations like the United Kingdom domestic violence victims may have difficulties getting alternative housing which can force them to stay in the abusive relationship.\n\nMany domestic violence victims delay leaving the abuser because they have pets and are afraid of what will happen to the pets if they leave. Safehouses need to be more accepting of pets, many refuse to accept pets.\n\nThe way the individual rights of a family member versus the rights of the family as a unit are balanced vary significantly in different societies. This may influence the degree to which a government may be willing to investigate family incidents. In some cultures, individual members of the family are expected to sacrifice almost completely their own interests in favor of the interests of the family as a whole. What is viewed as an undue expression of personal autonomy is condemned as unacceptable. In these cultures the family predominates over the individual, and where this interacts with cultures of honor, individualistic choice that may damage the family reputation in the community may result in extreme punishment, such as honor killings.\n\nIn some countries, the immigration policy is tied to whether the person desiring citizenship is married to his/her sponsor. This can lead to persons being trapped in violent relations – such persons may risk deportation if they attempt to separate (they may be accused of having entered into a sham marriage). Often the women come from cultures where they will suffer disgrace from their families if they abandon their marriage and return home, and so they prefer to stay married, therefore remaining locked in a cycle of abuse.\n\nDomestic violence may happen in immigrant communities, and often there is little awareness in these communities of the laws and policies of the host country. A study among first generation South Asians in the UK found that they had little knowledge about what constituted criminal behavior under the English law. The researchers found that \"There was certainly no awareness that there could be rape within a marriage\". A study in Australia showed that among the immigrant women sampled who were abused by partners and did not report it, 16.7% did not know DV was illegal, while 18.8% did not know that they could get protection.\n\nOf the most important factors in domestic violence is a belief that abuse, whether physical or verbal, is acceptable. Other factors include substance abuse, unemployment, mental health problems, lack of coping skills, isolation, and excessive dependence on the abuser.\n\nLenore E. Walker presented the model of a cycle of abuse which consists of four phases. First, there is a buildup to abuse when tension rises until a domestic violence incident ensues. During the reconciliation stage, the abuser may be kind and loving and then there is a period of calm. When the situation is calm, the abused person may be hopeful that the situation will change. Then, tensions begin to build, and the cycle starts again.\n\nA common aspect among abusers is that they witnessed abuse in their childhood, in other words they were participants in a chain of intergenerational cycles of domestic violence. That does not mean, conversely, that if a child witnesses or is subject to violence that they will become abusers. Understanding and breaking the intergenerational abuse patterns may do more to reduce domestic violence than other remedies for managing the abuse.\n\nResponses that focus on children suggest that experiences throughout life influence an individual’s propensity to engage in family violence (either as a victim or as a perpetrator). Researchers supporting this theory suggest it is useful to think of three sources of domestic violence: childhood socialization, previous experiences in couple relationships during adolescence, and levels of strain in a person's current life. People who observe their parents abusing each other, or who were themselves abused may incorporate abuse into their behaviour within relationships that they establish as adults.\n\nResearch indicates that the more children are physically punished, the more likely they will be as adults to act violently towards family members, including intimate partners. Children who are spanked more as children are more likely as adults to approve of hitting a partner, and also experience more marital conflict and feelings of anger in general. A number of studies have found physical punishment to be associated with \"higher levels of aggression against parents, siblings, peers and spouses\", even when controlling for other factors. While these associations do not prove a causal relationship, a number of longitudinal studies suggest that the experience of physical punishment does have a direct causal effect on later aggressive behaviors. Such research has shown that corporal punishment of children (e.g. smacking, slapping, or spanking) predicts weaker internalisation of values such as empathy, altruism, and resistance to temptation, along with more antisocial behavior, including dating violence.\n\nIn some patrilineal societies around the world, a young bride moves with the family of her husband. As a new girl in the home, she starts as having the lowest (or among the lowest) position in the family, and is often subjected to violence and abuse, and is, in particular, strongly controlled by the parents-in-law: with the arrival of the daughter-in-law in the family, the mother-in-law's status is elevated and she now has (often for the first time in her life) substantial power over someone else, and \"This family system itself tends to produce a cycle of violence in which the formerly abused bride becomes the abusing mother-in-law to her new daughter-in-law\". Amnesty International writes that, in Tajikistan, \"it is almost an initiation ritual for the mother-in-law to put her daughter-in-law through the same torments she went through herself as a young wife.\"\n\nThese factors include genetics and brain dysfunction and are studied by neuroscience. Psychological theories focus on personality traits and mental characteristics of the offender. Personality traits include sudden bursts of anger, poor impulse control, and poor self-esteem. Various theories suggest that psychopathology is a factor, and that abuse experienced as a child leads some people to be more violent as adults. Correlation has been found between juvenile delinquency and domestic violence in adulthood.\n\nStudies have found high incidence of psychopathology among domestic abusers. For instance, some research suggests that about 80% of both court-referred and self-referred men in these domestic violence studies exhibited diagnosable psychopathology, typically personality disorders. \"The estimate of personality disorders in the general population would be more in the 15–20% range [...] As violence becomes more severe and chronic in the relationship, the likelihood of psychopathology in these men approaches 100%.\"\n\nDutton has suggested a psychological profile of men who abuse their wives, arguing that they have borderline personalities that are developed early in life. However, these psychological theories are disputed: Gelles suggests that psychological theories are limited, and points out that other researchers have found that only 10% (or less) fit this psychological profile. He argues that social factors are important, while personality traits, mental illness, or psychopathy are lesser factors.\n\nAn evolutionary psychological explanation of domestic violence is that it represents male attempts to control female reproduction and ensure sexual exclusivity. Violence related to extramarital relations is seen as justified in certain parts of the world. For instance, a survey in Diyarbakir, Turkey, found that, when asked the appropriate punishment for a woman who has committed adultery, 37% of respondents said she should be killed, while 21% said her nose or ears should be cut off. Similar feelings may at times be generated in a situations where one partner is more financially successful.\n\nSocial theories look at external factors in the offender's environment, such as family structure, stress, social learning, and includes rational choice theories.\n\nSocial learning theory suggests that people learn from observing and modeling after others' behavior. With positive reinforcement, the behavior continues. If one observes violent behavior, one is more likely to imitate it. If there are no negative consequences (e. g. victim accepts the violence, with submission), then the behavior will likely continue.\n\nResource theory was suggested by William Goode (1971). Women who are most dependent on the spouse for economic well being (e.g. homemakers/housewives, women with handicaps, the unemployed), and are the primary caregiver to their children, fear the increased financial burden if they leave their marriage. Dependency means that they have fewer options and few resources to help them cope with or change their spouse's behavior.\n\nCouples that share power equally experience lower incidence of conflict, and when conflict does arise, are less likely to resort to violence. If one spouse desires control and power in the relationship, the spouse may resort to abuse This may include coercion and threats, intimidation, emotional abuse, economic abuse, isolation, making light of the situation and blaming the spouse, using children (threatening to take them away), and behaving as \"master of the castle\".\n\nStress may be increased when a person is living in a family situation, with increased pressures. Social stresses, due to inadequate finances or other such problems in a family may further increase tensions. Violence is not always caused by stress, but may be one way that some people respond to stress. Families and couples in poverty may be more likely to experience domestic violence, due to increased stress and conflicts about finances and other aspects. Some speculate that poverty may hinder a man's ability to live up to his idea of \"successful manhood\", thus he fears losing honor and respect. Theory suggests that when he is unable to economically support his wife, and maintain control, he may turn to misogyny, substance abuse, and crime as ways to express masculinity.\n\nSame-sex relationships may experience similar social stressors. Additionally, violence in same-sex relationships has been linked to internalized homophobia, which contributed to low self-esteem and anger in both perpetrator and victim. Internalized homophobia also appears to be a barrier in victims seeking help. Similarly, heterosexism can play a key role in domestic violence in the LGBT community. As a social ideology that implies \"heterosexuality is normative, morally superior, and better than [homosexuality],\" heterosexism can hinder services and lead to an unhealthy self-image in sexual minorities. Heterosexism in legal and medical institutions can be seen in instances of discrimination, biases, and insensitivity toward sexual orientation. For example, as of 2006, seven states explicitly denied LGBT individuals the ability to apply for protective orders, proliferating ideas of LGBT subjugation, which is tied to feelings of anger and powerlessness.\n\nPower and control in abusive relationships is the way that abusers exert physical, sexual and other forms of abuse to gain control within relationships.\n\nA causalist view of domestic violence is that it is a strategy to gain or maintain power and control over the victim. This view is in alignment with Bancroft's \"cost-benefit\" theory that abuse rewards the perpetrator in ways other than, or in addition to, simply exercising power over his or her target(s). He cites evidence in support of his argument that, in most cases, abusers are quite capable of exercising control over themselves, but choose not to do so for various reasons.\n\nSometimes, one person seeks complete power and control over their partner and uses different ways to achieve this, including resorting to physical violence. The perpetrator attempts to control all aspects of the victim's life, such as their social, personal, professional and financial decisions.\n\nQuestions of power and control are integral to the widely utilized Duluth Domestic Abuse Intervention Project. They developed a \"Power and Control Wheel\" to illustrate this: it has power and control at the center, surrounded by spokes (techniques used), the titles of which include: coercion and threats, intimidation, emotional abuse, isolation, minimizing, denying and blaming, using children, economic abuse, and privilege.\n\nCritics of this model argue that it ignores research linking domestic violence to substance abuse and psychological problems. Some modern research into the patterns in DV has found that women are more likely to be physically abusive towards their partner in relationships in which only one partner is violent,<ref name=\"10.2105/AJPH.2005.079020\"></ref> which draws the effectiveness of using concepts like male privilege to treat domestic violence into question. Some modern research into predictors of injury from domestic violence suggests that the strongest predictor of injury by domestic violence is participation in reciprocal domestic violence.\n\nNonsubordination theory, sometimes called dominance theory, is an area of feminist legal theory that focuses on the power differential between men and women. Nonsubordination theory takes the position that society, and more especially men in society, use sex differences between men and women to perpetuate this power imbalance. Unlike other topics within feminist legal theory, nonsubordination theory focuses specifically on certain sexual behaviors, including control of women’s sexuality, sexual harassment, pornography, and violence against women generally. Catharine MacKinnon argues that nonsubordination theory best addresses these particular issues because they affect “almost exclusively” women. MacKinnon advocates for nonsubordination theory over other theories, like formal equality, substantive equality, and difference theory, because sexual violence and other forms of violence against women are not a question of “sameness and difference,” but rather are best viewed as “more central inequalities” for women. Though nonsubordination theory has been discussed at great length in evaluating various forms of sexual violence against women, it also serves as a basis for understanding domestic violence and why it occurs. Nonsubordination theory tackles the issue of domestic violence as a subset of the broader problem of violence against women because domestic violence victims are overwhelmingly female.\n\nProponents of nonsubordination theory propose several reasons why it works best to explain domestic violence. First, there are certain recurring patterns in domestic violence that indicate it is not the result of intense anger or arguments, but rather is a form of subordination. This is evidenced in part by the fact that domestic violence victims are typically abused in a variety of situations and by a variety of means. For example, victims are sometimes beaten after they have been sleeping or have been separated from the batterer, and often the abuse takes on a financial or emotional form in addition to physical abuse. Supporters of nonsubordination theory use these examples to dispel the notion that battering is always the result of heat of the moment anger or intense arguments. Also, batterers often employ manipulative and deliberate tactics when abusing their victims, which can “rang[e] from searching for and destroying a treasured object of hers to striking her in areas of her body that do not show bruises (e.g. her scalp) or in areas where she would be embarrassed to show others her bruises.” These behaviors can be even more useful to a batterer when the batterer and the victim share children, because the batterer often controls the family’s financial assets, making the victim less likely to leave if it would put her children at risk.\n\nProfessor Martha Mahoney, of the University of Miami School of Law, also points to the notion of “separation assault”—a phenomenon where a batterer further assaults a victim who is attempting or has attempted to leave an abusive relationship—as additional evidence that domestic violence is used to subordinate victims to their batterers. A batterer’s unwillingness to allow the victim to leave the relationship substantiates the idea that violence is being used to force the victim to continue to fulfill the batterer’s wishes that she obey him. Nonsubordination theorists argue that all of these actions—the variety of abusive behaviors and settings, exploiting the victim’s children, and assault upon separation—suggest a larger problem than merely an inability to properly manage anger, though anger may be a byproduct of these behaviors. The purpose of these actions is to keep the victim, and sometimes the entire family, subordinate to the batterer, according to nonsubordination theory.\n\nA second rationale for using nonsubordination theory to explain domestic violence, beyond the variety of tactics used by abusers, is that the frequency with which domestic violence occurs overpowers the idea that it is merely the result of a batterer’s anger. Professor Mahoney explains that because of the sensationalism generated in media coverage of “big” or particularly horrific domestic violence cases, it is difficult for people to conceptualize how frequently domestic violence happens in society. However, domestic violence is a regular occurrence experienced by up to one half of people in the United States, and an overwhelming number of victims are female. The sheer number of domestic violence victims in the United States suggests that domestic violence is not merely the result of intimate partners who cannot control their anger. Nonsubordination theory contends that it is the batterer’s desire to subordinate the victim, not his uncontainable anger, which explains the frequency of domestic violence. Nonsubordination theorists argue that other forms of feminist legal theory do not offer any explanation for the phenomenon of domestic violence generally or the frequency with which it occurs.\n\nCritics of nonsubordination theory complain that it offers no solutions to the problems it points out. For example, proponents of nonsubordination theory criticize certain approaches that have been taken to address domestic violence in the legal system, such as mandatory arrest or prosecution policies. These policies take discretion away from law enforcement by forcing police officers to arrest suspected domestic violence offenders and prosecutors to prosecute those cases. There is a lot of discourse surrounding mandatory arrest. Opponents argue that it undermines a victim's autonomy, discourages the empowerment of women by discounting other resources available and puts victims at more risk for domestic abuse. States that have implemented mandatory arrest laws have 60% higher homicide rates which have been shown to be consistent with the decline in reporting rates. Advocates of these policies contend that the criminal justice system is sometimes the only way to reach victims of domestic violence, and that if an offender knows he will be arrested, it will deter future domestic violence conduct. People who endorse nonsubordination theory argue that these policies only serve to further subordinate women by forcing them to take a certain course of action, thus compounding the trauma they experienced during the abuse. However, nonsubordination theory itself offers no better or more appropriate solutions, which is why some scholars argue that other forms of feminist legal theory are more appropriate to address issues of domestic and sexual violence. Sociologist Andrew Glover critiques non-subordination theory on the grounds that domestic violence occurs among homosexual couples at the same rate as heterosexual couples. So it cannot be caused by, or exist to perpetuate, power differentials between the sexes. \n\n3.3 million children witness domestic violence each year in the US. There has been an increase in acknowledgment that a child who is exposed to domestic abuse during their upbringing will suffer developmental and psychological damage. During the mid 1990s, the Adverse Childhood Experiences study (ACE) found that children who were exposed to domestic violence and other forms of abuse had a higher risk of developing mental and physical health problems. Because of the awareness of domestic violence that some children have to face, it also generally impacts how the child develops emotionally, socially, behaviorally as well as cognitively.\n\nSome emotional and behavioral problems that can result due to domestic violence include increased aggressiveness, anxiety, and changes in how a child socializes with friends, family, and authorities. Depression, emotional insecurity, and mental health disorders can follow due to traumatic experiences. Problems with attitude and cognition in schools can start developing, along with a lack of skills such as problem-solving. Correlation has been found between the experience of abuse and neglect in childhood and perpetrating domestic violence and sexual abuse in adulthood.\n\nAdditionally, in some cases the abuser will purposely abuse the mother or father in front of the child to cause a ripple effect, hurting two victims simultaneously. Children may intervene when they witness severe violence against a parent, which can place a child at greater risk for injury or death. It has been found that children who witness mother-assault are more likely to exhibit symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Consequences to these children are likely to be more severe if their assaulted mother develops post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and does not seek treatment due to her difficulty in assisting her child with processing his or her own experience of witnessing the domestic violence.\n\nBruises, broken bones, head injuries, lacerations, and internal bleeding are some of the acute effects of a domestic violence incident that require medical attention and hospitalization. Some chronic health conditions that have been linked to victims of domestic violence are arthritis, irritable bowel syndrome, chronic pain, pelvic pain, ulcers, and migraines. Victims who are pregnant during a domestic violence relationship experience greater risk of miscarriage, pre-term labor, and injury to or death of the fetus.\n\nNew research illustrates that there are strong associations between exposure to domestic violence and abuse in all their forms and higher rates of many chronic conditions. The strongest evidence comes from the Adverse Childhood Experiences study which shows correlations between exposure to abuse or neglect and higher rates in adulthood of chronic conditions, high risk health behaviors and shortened life span. Evidence of the association between physical health and violence against women has been accumulating since the early 1990s.\n\nAmong victims who are still living with their perpetrators high amounts of stress, fear, and anxiety are commonly reported. Depression is also common, as victims are made to feel guilty for ‘provoking’ the abuse and are frequently subjected to intense criticism. It is reported that 60% of victims meet the diagnostic criteria for depression, either during or after termination of the relationship, and have a greatly increased risk of suicide. Those who are battered either emotionally or physically often are also depressed because of a feeling of worthlessness. These feelings often persist long-term and it is suggested that many receive therapy for it because of the heightened risk of suicide and other traumatic symptoms.\n\nIn addition to depression, victims of domestic violence also commonly experience long-term anxiety and panic, and are likely to meet the diagnostic criteria for Generalized Anxiety Disorder and Panic Disorder. The most commonly referenced psychological effect of domestic violence is Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). PTSD (as experienced by victims) is characterized by flashbacks, intrusive images, exaggerated startle response, nightmares, and avoidance of triggers that are associated with the abuse. Studies have indicated that it is important to consider the effect of domestic violence and its psychophysiologic sequelae on women who are mothers of infants and young children. Several studies have shown that maternal interpersonal violence-related posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) can, despite traumatized mother's best efforts, interfere with their child's response to the domestic violence and other traumatic events.\n\nOnce victims leave their perpetrator, they can be stunned with the reality of the extent to which the abuse has taken away their autonomy. Due to economic abuse and isolation, the victim usually has very little money of their own and few people on whom they can rely when seeking help. This has been shown to be one of the greatest obstacles facing victims of DV, and the strongest factor that can discourage them from leaving their perpetrators.\n\nIn addition to lacking financial resources, victims of DV often lack specialized skills, education, and training that are necessary to find gainful employment, and also may have several children to support. In 2003, thirty-six major US cities cited DV as one of the primary causes of homelessness in their areas. It has also been reported that one out of every three homeless women are homeless due to having left a DV relationship. If a victim is able to secure rental housing, it is likely that her apartment complex will have \"zero tolerance\" policies for crime; these policies can cause them to face eviction even if they are the victim (not the perpetrator) of violence. While the number of shelters and community resources available to DV victims has grown tremendously, these agencies often have few employees and hundreds of victims seeking assistance which causes many victims to remain without the assistance they need.\n\nWomen and children experiencing domestic violence undergo occupational apartheid; they are typically denied access to desired occupations. Abusive partners may limit occupations and create an occupationally void environment which reinforces feelings of low self-worth and poor self-efficacy in ability to satisfactorily perform everyday tasks. In addition, work is impacted by functional losses, ability to maintain necessary employment skills, and ability to function within the work place. Oftentimes the victims are very isolated from other relationships as well such as having few to no friends, this is another method of control for the abuser.\n\nAn analysis in the US showed that 106 of the 771 officer killings between 1996 and 2009 occurred during domestic violence interventions. Of these, 51% were defined as unprovoked or as ambushes, taking place before officers had made contact with suspects. Another 40% occurred after contact and the remainder took place during tactical situations (those involving hostages and attempts to overcome barricades). The FBI's LEOKA system grouped officer domestic violence response deaths into the category of disturbances, along with \"bar fights, gang matters, and persons brandishing weapons,\" which may have given rise to a misperception of the risks involved.\n\nDue to the gravity and intensity of hearing victims’ stories of abuse, professionals (social workers, police, counselors, therapists, advocates, medical professionals) are at risk themselves for secondary or vicarious trauma (VT), which causes the responder to experience trauma symptoms similar to the original victim after hearing about the victim’s experiences with abuse. Research has demonstrated that professionals who experience vicarious trauma show signs of exaggerated startle response, hypervigilance, nightmares, and intrusive thoughts although they have not experienced a trauma personally and do not qualify for a clinical diagnosis of PTSD.\n\nManagement of domestic violence may take place through medical services, law enforcement, counseling, and other forms of prevention and intervention. Participants in domestic violence may require medical treatment, such as examination by a family physician, other primary care provider, or emergency room physicians.\n\nCounseling is another means of managing the effects of domestic violence. For the victim of abuse, counseling may include an assessment of the presence, extent and types of abuse. A lethality assessment is a tool that can assist in determining the best course of treatment for a client, as well as helping the client to recognize dangerous behaviors and more subtle abuse in their relationship. In a study of victims of attempted domestic violence-related homicide, only about one-half of the participants recognized that their perpetrator was capable of killing them, as many domestic violence victims minimize the true seriousness of their situation. Another important component is safety planning, which allows the victim to plan for dangerous situations they may encounter, and is effective regardless of their decision on whether remain with their perpetrator.\n\nCounseling may be used by offenders to minimize the risk of future domestic violence, or to stop the violence and repair the harm it has caused. Most commonly, to date, convicted or self-referring offenders undertake programmes for perpetrators of intimate partner violence. These are delivered in a group format, one or two hours per week, over a set time period. Programme facilitators guide participants through a curriculum of adult-education style modules, which draw on a variety of therapeutic approaches, but predominantly cognitive behavioural therapy and psycho-education. A debate on the effectiveness of these programmes is on-going. While some (ex-) partners of offenders have experienced improvements in their situation, others have not, and there also appears to be a risk of doing harm. Along with using group work, there are other approaches that incorporate individual and conjoint conversations to help stop the violence and restore the victims' safety and respect.\n\nPrevention and intervention includes ways to prevent domestic violence by offering safe shelter, crisis intervention, advocacy, and education and prevention programs. Community screening for domestic violence can be more systematic in cases of animal abuse, healthcare settings, emergency departments, behavioral health settings and court systems. Tools are being developed to facilitate domestic violence screening such as mobile apps. The Duluth Model or Domestic Abuse Intervention Project is a program developed to reduce domestic violence against women, which is the first multi-disciplinary program designed to address the issue of domestic violence by coordinating the actions of a variety of agencies dealing with domestic conflict.\n\nDomestic violence hotlines offer advice, support and referral services to those in abusive relationships.\n\nThere exist several strategies that are being used to attempt to prevent or reduce DV. It is important to assess the effectiveness of a strategy that is being implemented.\n\nReforming the legislation in order to ensure that domestic violence falls under the scope of the law is important. This may imply repealing existing laws which discriminate against women: according to the WHO, \"when the law allows husbands to physically discipline wives, implementing a programme to prevent intimate partner violence may have little impact\". Marriage laws are also important, \"They [women] should also be able to enter freely into a marriage or to leave it, to obtain financial credit, and to own and administer property.\" Abolishing or restricting the offering and receiving of dowry and bride price and scrutinizing the impact of these transactions on the legislative decisions regarding DV is also important. UN Women has stated that the legislation should ensure that \"a perpetrator of domestic violence, including marital rape, cannot use the fact that he paid bride price as a defence to a domestic violence charge\".\n\nGender norms that promote the inferiority of women may lead to the abuse of women by intimate partners. The WHO writes that, \"Dismantling hierarchical constructions of masculinity and femininity predicated on the control of women, and eliminating the structural factors that support inequalities are likely to make a significant contribution to preventing intimate partner and sexual violence\".\n\nAccording to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, \"A key strategy in preventing domestic violence is the promotion of respectful, nonviolent relationships through individual, community, and societal level change.\"\nEarly intervention programs, such as school-based programs to prevent dating violence are also effective. Children who grow up in violent homes may be led to believe that such behavior is a normal part of life, therefore it is important to challenge such attitudes when they are present among these children.\n\n\nIn Australia, domestic violence refers to occurrences of violence in domestic settings between people in intimate relationships. The term can be altered by each state's legislation and can broaden the spectrum of domestic violence, such as in Victoria, where family-like relationships and witnessing any type of violence in the family is defined as a family violence incident.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "989686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=989686", "title": "Fenfluramine", "text": "Fenfluramine\n\nFenfluramine, formerly sold under the brand name Pondimin among others, is an appetite suppressant which was used to treat obesity and is now no longer marketed. It was used both on its own and, in combination with phentermine, as part of the anti-obesity medication Fen-Phen.\n\nFenfluramine was formerly used as an appetite suppressant to treat obesity. It was available both alone and in combination with phentermine, another appetite suppressant.\n\nAt higher therapeutic doses, headache, diarrhea, dizziness, dry mouth, erectile dysfunction, anxiety, insomnia, irritability, lethargy, and stimulation have been reported with fenfluramine.\n\nThere have been reports associating chronic fenfluramine treatment with emotional instability, cognitive deficits, depression, psychosis, exacerbation of pre-existing psychosis (schizophrenia), and sleep disturbances. It has been suggested that some of these effects may be mediated by serotonergic neurotoxicity/depletion of serotonin with chronic administration and/or activation of serotonin 5-HT receptors.\n\nThe distinctive valvular abnormality seen with fenfluramine is a thickening of the leaflet and chordae tendineae. One mechanism used to explain this phenomenon involves heart valve serotonin receptors, which are thought to help regulate growth. Since fenfluramine and its active metabolite norfenfluramine stimulate serotonin receptors, this may have led to the valvular abnormalities found in patients using fenfluramine. In particular norfenfluramine is a potent inhibitor of the re-uptake of 5-HT into nerve terminals. Fenfluramine and its active metabolite norfenfluramine affect the 5-HT receptors, which are plentiful in human cardiac valves. The suggested mechanism by which fenfluramine causes damage is through over or inappropriate stimulation of these receptors leading to inappropriate valve cell division. Supporting this idea is the fact that this valve abnormality has also occurred in patients using other drugs that act on 5-HT receptors.\n\nAccording to a study of 5,743 former users conducted by a plaintiff's expert cardiologist, damage to the heart valve continued long after stopping the medication. Of the users tested, 20% of women, and 12% of men were affected. For all ex-users, there was a 7-fold increase of chances of needing surgery for faulty heart valves caused by the drug.\n\nIn overdose, fenfluramine can cause serotonin syndrome and rapidly result in death.\n\nFenfluramine acts primarily as a serotonin releasing agent. It increases the level of serotonin, a neurotransmitter that regulates mood, appetite and other functions. Fenfluramine causes the release of serotonin by disrupting vesicular storage of the neurotransmitter, and reversing serotonin transporter function. The drug also acts as a norepinephrine releasing agent to a lesser extent, particularly via its active metabolite norfenfluramine. At high concentrations, norfenfluramine, though not fenfluramine, also acts as a dopamine releasing agent, and so fenfluramine may do this at very high doses as well. In addition to monoamine release, while fenfluramine binds only very weakly to the serotonin 5-HT receptors, norfenfluramine binds to and activates the serotonin 5-HT and 5-HT receptors with high affinity and the serotonin 5-HT receptor with moderate affinity. The result of the increased serotonergic and noradrenergic neurotransmission is a feeling of fullness and reduced appetite.\n\nThe combination of fenfluramine with phentermine, a norepinephrine–dopamine releasing agent acting primarily on norepinephrine, results in a well-balanced serotonin–norepinephrine releasing agent with weaker effects of dopamine release.\n\nThe elimination half-life of fenfluramine has been reported as ranging from 13 to 30 hours. The mean elimination half-lives of its enantiomers have been found to be 19 hours for dexfenfluramine and 25 hours for levfenfluramine. Norfenfluramine, the major active metabolite of fenfluramine, has an elimination half-life that is about 1.5 to 2 times as long as that of fenfluramine, with mean values of 34 hours for dexnorfenfluramine and 50 hours for levnorfenfluramine.\n\nFenfluramine is a substituted amphetamine and is also known as 3-trifluoromethyl-\"N\"-ethylamphetamine. It is a racemic mixture of two enantiomers, dexfenfluramine and levofenfluramine. Some analogues of fenfluramine include norfenfluramine, benfluorex, flucetorex, and fludorex.\n\nFenfluramine was developed in the early 1960s and was introduced in France in 1963. Approximately 50 million Europeans were treated with fenfluramine for appetite suppression between 1963 and 1996. Fenfluramine was approved in the United States in 1973. The combination of fenfluramine and phentermine was proposed in 1984. Approximately 5 million people in the United States were given fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine with or without phentermine between 1996 and 1998.\n\nIn the early 1990s, French researchers reported an association of fenfluramine with primary pulmonary hypertension and dyspnea in a small sample of patients. Fenfluramine was withdrawn from the U.S. market in 1997 after reports of heart valve disease and continued findings of pulmonary hypertension, including a condition known as cardiac fibrosis. It was subsequently withdrawn from other markets around the world. It was banned in India in 1998.\n\nFenfluramine was formerly marketed under the brand names Pondimin, Ponderax, and Adifax, among others.\n\nUnlike various other amphetamine derivatives, fenfluramine is reported to be dysphoric, \"unpleasantly lethargic\", and non-addictive at therapeutic doses. However, it has been reported to be used recreationally at high doses ranging between 80 and 400 mg, which have been described as producing euphoria, amphetamine-like effects, sedation, and hallucinogenic effects, along with anxiety, nausea, diarrhea, and sometimes panic attacks, as well as depressive symptoms once the drug had worn off. At very high doses (e.g., 240 mg, or between 200–600 mg), fenfluramine induces a psychedelic state resembling that produced by lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD). Indirect (via induction of serotonin release) and/or direct activation of the 5-HT receptor would be expected to be responsible for the psychedelic effects of the drug at sufficient doses.\n\nUnder the development code ZX008, the pharmaceutical company Zogenix is studying fenfluramine's potential to treat seizures. Clinical trials have studied the use of fenfluramine in patients with Dravet syndrome. Results of a phase III clinical trial showed a 64% reduction in seizures.\n\n"}
{"id": "12959588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12959588", "title": "First Tuesday (networking forum)", "text": "First Tuesday (networking forum)\n\nFirst Tuesday is a networking forum for technology start-ups, their investors and related service providers.\n\nFirst Tuesday was launched on the first Tuesday of October 1998 at the Alphabet Bar in London by its founders Adam Gold, Julie Meyer, Mark Davies, John Browning and Nick Denton. The early First Tuesdays were held in the loft on Great Titchfield Street which housed Syzygy’s offices. Each month London’s Internet digerati would gather for drinks, and to listen to a speaker and share information on raising money and growing their Internet businesses. Early speakers included Rikki Tahta, Brent Hoberman and Martha Lane Fox, the founders of Lastminute.com; and John Taysom.\n\nIn late Spring 1999 Meyer left her job at NewMedia Investors to build First Tuesday's international network. In September 1999, First Tuesday launched into 17 cities across Europe. At Christmas 1999 and through the Millennium, Julie Meyer went to Israel, meeting Shlomo Kalisch of Jerusalem Global who had launched Yazam, a similar concept to First Tuesday.\n\nFirst Tuesday London was incorporated in early February 2000. Yazam tried to purchase First Tuesday in February 2000, but failed, ultimately succeeding on the 20th of July 2000. First Tuesday's City Leaders and Julie Meyer had led an alternative funding strategy with investments ready from Karl Christian Agerup of NorthZone Ventures and Rod Schwartz of Catalyst Technologies. This funding might have enabled First Tuesday to implement appropriate business models, corporate structures and management teams. The business model emerging through the structured First Tuesday Matchmaking events was to take 2% of funds raised at a First Tuesday Matchmaking event. Despite evidence that this was taking off, the company was sold.\nFirst Tuesday was run as an independent business or not-for-profit organisation in most countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243939", "title": "Hainan Island incident", "text": "Hainan Island incident\n\nThe Hainan Island incident occurred on April 1, 2001, when a United States Navy EP-3E ARIES II signals intelligence aircraft and a People's Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) J-8II interceptor fighter jet collided in mid-air, resulting in an international dispute between the United States of America and the People's Republic of China (PRC).\n\nThe EP-3 was operating about away from the PRC island province of Hainan, and about away from the Chinese military installation in the Paracel Islands, when it was intercepted by two J-8 fighters. A collision between the EP-3 and one of the J-8s caused the death of a PRC pilot, and the EP-3 was forced to make an emergency landing on Hainan. The 24 crew members were detained and interrogated by the Chinese authorities until a statement was delivered by the United States government regarding the incident. The exact phrasing of this document was intentionally ambiguous and allowed both countries to save face while defusing a potentially volatile situation between militarily strong regional states.\n\nThis sea area includes the South China Sea Islands, which are claimed by the PRC and several other countries. It is one of the most strategically sensitive areas in the world.\nThe United States and the People's Republic of China disagree on the legality of the overflights by U.S. naval aircraft of the area where the incident occurred. This part of the South China Sea comprises part of the PRC's exclusive economic zone based on the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Chinese claim that the Paracel Islands belong to China (this and similar claims have been persistently contested by Vietnam, the Philippines, and international observers). The PRC interprets the Convention as allowing it to preclude other nations' military operations within this area, but the United States does not recognize China's claim over the Paracel Islands and maintains that the Convention grants free navigation for all countries' aircraft and ships, including military aircraft and ships, within a country's exclusive economic zone.\nA PRC Sukhoi Su-27 force is based at Hainan. The island also houses a large signals intelligence facility which tracks U.S. activity in the area and monitors traffic from commercial communications satellites. As early as May 22, 1951, Hainan was targeted at the behest of U.S. Naval Intelligence for RAF photo-reconnaissance overflights, using Spitfire PR Mk 19s based at Kai Tak Airport in Hong Kong.\n\nThe EP-3 (BuNo \"156511\"), assigned to Fleet Air Reconnaissance Squadron One (VQ-1, \"World Watchers\"), had taken off as Mission PR32 from Kadena Air Base in Okinawa, Japan. At about 09:15 local time, toward the end of the EP-3's six-hour ELINT mission, two Chinese J-8s from Lingshui airfield, on the Chinese island of Hainan, approached the EP-3 as it flew at and , on a heading of 110°, about away from the island. One of the J-8s (\"81192\"), piloted by Lt. Cdr. Wang Wei, made two close passes to the EP-3. On the third pass, it collided with the larger aircraft. The J-8 broke into two pieces; the EP-3's radome detached completely and its No. 1 (outer left) propeller was severely damaged. Airspeed and altitude data were lost, the aircraft depressurized, and an antenna became wrapped around the tailplane. The J-8's tail fin struck the EP-3's left aileron forcing it fully upright, and causing the U.S. aircraft to roll to the left at 3–4 times its normal maximum rate.\nThe impact sent the EP-3 into a 30° dive at a bank angle of 130°, almost inverted. It dropped in 30 seconds, and fell another before the pilot, Lt. Shane Osborn, got the EP-3's wings level and the nose up. In a September 2003 article in \"Naval Aviation News\", Osborn said that once he regained control of the aircraft he \"called for the crew to prepare to bail out.\" He then managed to control the aircraft's descent by using emergency power on the working engines, such that an emergency landing on Hainan became a possibility.\n\nFor the next 26 minutes the crew of the EP-3 carried out an emergency plan which included destroying sensitive items on board the aircraft, such as electronic equipment related to intelligence gathering, documents and data. Part of this plan involved pouring freshly brewed coffee into disk drives and motherboards. The crew had not been formally trained on how to destroy sensitive documents and equipment, and as a result had to improvise.\n\nThe EP-3 made an unauthorized emergency landing at Lingshui airfield, after at least 15 distress signals had gone unanswered, with the emergency code selected on the transponder. It landed at , with no flaps, no trim, and a damaged left elevator, weighing . Following the collision, the failure of the nose cone had disabled the No. 3 (inner right) engine, and the No. 1 propeller could not be feathered, leading to increased drag on that side. There was no working airspeed indicator or altimeter, and Osborn used full right aileron during the landing. The surviving Chinese interceptor had landed there 10 minutes earlier.\n\nLt. Cdr. Wang was seen to eject after the collision, but the Pentagon said that the damage to the underside of the EP-3 could mean that the cockpit of the Chinese fighter jet was crushed, making it impossible for the pilot to survive. Wang's body was never recovered, and he was declared dead.\n\nBoth the cause of the collision and the assignment of blame were disputed. The U.S. government claimed that the Chinese jet bumped the wing of the larger, slower, and less maneuverable EP-3. After returning to U.S. soil, the pilot of the EP-3, Lt. Shane Osborn, was allowed to make a brief statement in which he said that the EP-3 was on autopilot and in straight-and-level flight at the time of the collision. He stated that he was just \"guarding the autopilot\" in his interview with \"Frontline\". The U.S. released video footage from previous missions which revealed that American reconnaissance crews had previously been intercepted by the same aircraft.\n\nBased on the account of Wang Wei's wingman, the Chinese government stated that the American aircraft \"veered at a wide angle towards the Chinese\", in the process ramming the J-8. This claim cannot be verified since the Chinese government refuses to release data from the flight recorders of either aircraft, both of which are in its possession.\n\nFor 15 minutes after landing, the EP-3 crew continued to destroy sensitive items and data on board the aircraft, as per protocol. They disembarked from the aircraft after soldiers looked through windows, pointed guns, and shouted through bullhorns. The Chinese offered them water and cigarettes. Kept under close guard, they were taken to a military barracks at Lingshui where they were interrogated for two nights before being moved to lodgings in Haikou, the provincial capital and largest city on the island. They were generally treated well, but were interrogated at all hours, and so suffered from lack of sleep. They found the Chinese food unpalatable as it included fish heads, but this later improved. Guards gave them decks of cards and an English-language newspaper. To pass the time and keep spirits up, Lts. Honeck and Vignery worked up humorous routines based on the television shows \"The People's Court\", \"Saturday Night Live\" and \"The Crocodile Hunter\". These were performed as they went to meals, the only time they were together. They gradually developed good relations with their guards, with one guard inquiring of them the lyrics for the song \"Hotel California\" by the Eagles.\n\nThree U.S. diplomats were sent to Hainan to meet the crew and assess their conditions, and to negotiate their release. They were first allowed to meet with the crew three days after the collision. U.S. officials complained at the slow pace of the Chinese decision.\n\nThe 24 crew members (21 men and 3 women) were detained until April 11, shortly after the U.S. issued the \"letter of the two sorries\" to the Chinese. The Chinese military boarded the EP-3 and thoroughly stripped and examined the aircraft's equipment. The crew was only partially successful in their destruction of classified material, and some of the material they failed to destroy included cryptographic keys, signals intelligence manuals, and the names of National Security Agency employees. Some of the captured computers contained detailed information for processing PROFORMA communications from North Korea, Russia, Vietnam, China and other countries. The plane also carried information on the emitter parameters for U.S.-allied radar systems worldwide. The fact that the United States could track PLAN submarines via signal transmission was also revealed to China.\n\nThe \"Letter of the two sorries\" was the letter delivered by the United States Ambassador Joseph Prueher to Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan of the People's Republic of China to defuse the incident. The delivery of the letter led to the release of the U.S. crew from Chinese custody, as well as the eventual return of the disassembled aircraft.\n\nThe letter stated that the United States was \"very sorry\" for the death of Chinese pilot Wang Wei, and was \"very sorry\" the aircraft entered China's airspace and that its landing did not have \"verbal clearance\".\n\nThe United States stated that it was \"not a letter of apology,\" as some state-run Chinese media outlets characterized it at the time, but \"an expression of regret and sorrow\". China had originally asked for an apology, but the U.S. explained, \"We did not do anything wrong, and therefore it was not possible to apologize.\"\n\nThere was further debate over the exact meaning of the Chinese translation issued by the U.S. Embassy. A senior administration official was quoted as saying \"What the Chinese will choose to characterize as an apology, we would probably choose to characterize as an expression of regret or sorrow.\"\n\nThe crew of the EP-3 was released on April 11, 2001, and returned to their base at Whidbey Island via Honolulu, Hawaii, where they were subject to two days of intense debriefings, followed by a heroes' welcome. The pilot, Lt. Shane Osborn, was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for \"heroism and extraordinary achievement\" in flight. The J-8 pilot, Lt. Cdr. Wang Wei, was posthumously honored in China as a \"Guardian of Territorial Airspace and Waters\". His widow received a personal letter of condolence from President George W. Bush.\nU.S. Navy engineers said the EP-3 could be repaired in 8–12 months, but China refused to allow it to be flown off Hainan island. The disassembled aircraft was released on July 3, 2001, and was returned to the United States by the Russian airline Polet in an Antonov An-124 Ruslan. The repairs took place at Integrated Systems of Waco, Texas as they were the main provider of P3 maintenance and modernization at the time. The aircraft was reported to have flown back to the same international waters near the China coast to continue its reconnaissance missions.\n\nIn addition to paying for the dismantling and shipping of the EP-3, the United States paid for the 11 days of food and lodging supplied by the Chinese government to the aircraft's crew, in the amount of $34,567.89. The Chinese had demanded one million dollars compensation from the U.S. for the lost J-8 and their pilot, but this was declined and no further negotiations were held.\n\nThe incident took place ten weeks after the inauguration of George W. Bush as president and was his first foreign policy crisis. Both sides were criticized following the event; the Chinese for making a bluff which was called without any real concessions from the American side other than the \"Letter of the two sorries,\" and the U.S. first for being insensitive immediately after the event and later for issuing the letter rather than taking a harder line.\n\nFollowing the collision, China's monitoring of reconnaissance flights became less aggressive for a period of time. As of 2011, flights of U.S. surveillance aircraft near the Chinese coastline continued as before the incident.\n\nThe \"JAG\" episode \"Dog Robber\" that aired in late 2001 was loosely based on this event.\n\nHainan is currently the home of the PLAN Hainan Submarine Base, an underground facility capable of supporting nuclear ballistic missile submarines. In March 2009, the USNS \"Impeccable\", an ocean surveillance ship of the U.S. Navy, was on several occasions approached by Chinese ships and aircraft while operating south of Hainan; in actions Pentagon officials characterized as \"aggressive\" and \"harassment.\" In August 2014, the U.S. protested when a Chinese Shenyang J-11BH came within of a patrolling Boeing P-8 Poseidon aircraft and performed aerobatic maneuvers including a barrel roll. In May 2016, the U.S. protested when two Chinese Shenyang J-11BH aircraft reportedly came within of a U.S. EP-3 on \"a routine\" patrol approximately east of Hainan Island, China responded by demanding an end to U.S. surveillance near China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21447629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21447629", "title": "Hatton Promotions", "text": "Hatton Promotions\n\nHatton Promotions is a promotional company headed by former two-weight world champion Ricky Hatton with Richard Poxon as Director of Boxing.\n\nOn 4 February 2009, Hatton Promotions was officially launched at a press conference in which Ricky Hatton's fight with Manny Pacquiao was also announced.\n\nThe company is based in Hyde, Manchester and comprises a state of the art fitness suite, a large boxing gym with two full-size rings and offices.\n\nIn July 2009 having staged only four boxing events Hatton Promotions signed a deal with Sky to broadcast eight shows. Hatton said at the time: \"Sky have been fantastic to us in handing us eight dates so early and we want to pay them back for their support by improving in everything we do\".\n\nHatton promotions have had a large roster of boxers on their books, many of which are champions. These include;\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44808379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44808379", "title": "Hetek (magazine)", "text": "Hetek (magazine)\n\nHetek () is a weekly news magazine published in Budapest, Hungary.\n\n\"Hetek\" was established by pastor Sándor Németh in 1997. The magazine is published weekly on Fridays and is based in Budapest. The magazine covers articles about politics, public life and religious issues and has links to the Faith Church, a Pentecostal Christian sect headed by the founder. Since 2009 the weekly has been published by the Oláh Printing Industrial Limited.\n\n\"Hetek\" has emphasized several times critics about Islam.\n\nThe circulation of \"Hetek\" was 15,000 copies in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11204943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11204943", "title": "Hey, Hey, It's the Monkees", "text": "Hey, Hey, It's the Monkees\n\nHey, Hey, It's the Monkees is a one-hour comedy special televised on the ABC Network on Monday February 17, 1997. The show features all four of the original Monkees and would be the last time Micky Dolenz, Davy Jones, Michael Nesmith, and Peter Tork would appear together in a new television program. Michael Nesmith wrote and directed the program.\n\nThis is not to be confused with the similarly titled documentary from 1997, \"Hey, Hey, We're the Monkees\".\n\nThe special shows the now middle-aged Monkees trying to come up with a new plot (apparently they've all been done by now) while still trying to catch their big break. Some of the music featured in the special came from the quartet's 1996 album \"Justus\"; the group also performs a medley of 5 of their biggest 1960s hits; \"Last Train to Clarksville\", \"Daydream Believer\", \"(I'm Not Your) Steppin' Stone\", \"I'm a Believer\" and \"Pleasant Valley Sunday\". These songs are shown as performances by the group in 1997, intercut with performances of these same songs from their 1960s television series. As of April 2017, it has not been made available on DVD or Blu-ray.\n\nGame show host Chuck Woolery makes a cameo.\n\nThe special opens with Micky presenting his new beverage that will give the Monkees a gimmick (specifically, vomiting on stage) and their \"ticket to success.\" Davy is concerned that such a gimmick will not go over well at their prestigious gig later that night.\n\nA lawyer arrives at the door, offering the Monkees an inheritance if they spend the night in a haunted mansion. Micky verifies with Mike that they already did that story line and sends the lawyer on his way. Soon after, a young woman rushes in with two more plot suggestions. The Monkees reject them and begin rehearsing.\n\nAfterward, they go for a walk on the beach. Mike explains that he converted the Mokeemobile into a low rider and a \"dimension machine\". This leads to a discussion about the need for gimmicks for the band and story lines for the show. They meet up with a young boy who says his pet pig is going to be sold for bacon. The guys ultimately reject the plot, but Micky manages to cheer him up with special effects. They rehearse some more and then head back to the pad to get ready for the gig.\n\nAs the Monkees get dressed, a couple outside the pad discusses an urban legend about the four crazy guys who live there. Micky interrupts them before they decide to toilet paper the house. The Monkees then pile into the Monkeemobile, and Mike demonstrates the new functionality he installed, including buttons that revert the surroundings to the 1960s, or transform one object into another.\n\nAt the club, they meet the manager, who introduces himself as Chuck and his daughter as the \"princess\". He tells them that he could lose the club if they don't play their older hits, but the guys emphasize that they want to promote their new album. The princess talks Davy into playing a few old hits, and the concert begins. Outside, the young boy returns with his friends, and they start playing with the Monkeemobile's special functions, causing the Monkees and the club audience to bounce back and forth between the 1990s and the 1960s, and the musical instruments transform into various objects. The concert is a success, and Chuck announces that his club was saved. He also congratulates the guys on making it through the entire special without resorting to the silly antics their show was known for.\n\nAs the Monkees drive home, they wonder how many people realize that their show and other classics are still produced even though they aren't on television anymore. When they arrive at their house, it is completely draped in toilet paper. Having realized that the use of special effects was causing their show to run short (and so stock footage of a lizard sunning itself on a rock had been edited in at various points earlier), they agree that one last special effects display of confetti and fireworks is appropriate.\n\nThe wheels began rolling when ABC approached Monkees manager Ward Sylvester in November, 1996 about producing a Monkees retrospective. Sylvester countered with the suggestion that they make a new episode of the original TV series.\n\nShot the following January, the special was a complete collaboration of all four Monkees in virtually every aspect of the project, from writing and directing (Mike), to casting (Micky), to music supervision and mixing (Peter), to staging (Davy).\n\nThe special featured the return of the Monkeemobile and the beach pad, as well as location filming on the beach in Malibu. According to photographer Henry Diltz, the guys were \"really into it\" and \"played up\" their fictional personalities.\n\nPost production delays caused the final print to be delivered too late for advanced screening, but the marketing push was strong, starting on Super Bowl Sunday, January 26 and continuing with ads run during some of ABC's most popular shows at the time (including a scene of \"Home Improvement\" incorporating the \"Monkees Theme\"). Initial promos featured scenes from the film \"HEAD\", since scenes from the new special were unavailable and the group did not want people to see shots from the TV series and think the special was merely a retrospective filled with old clips. Ad spots with actual scenes from the special began airing on February 9.\n\nA week before the special aired, Mike Nesmith said that ABC was pleased with the way the special turned out and expressed hope that there could be more to come.\n\nThe news media have described the premise of the special as, \"the group had kept filming TV shows since its weekly TV series on NBC was canceled in 1968, but they didn't have any place to air them.\" Micky Dolenz has been quoted as saying, \"We thought we'd go all the way and do another TV episode.\" This included setting the special in the beach pad from the original series, and showing the group driving around in the classic Monkeemobile.\n\nHowever, other quotes from the parties involved would seem to directly refute this idea. The 1997 summer issue of the \"Monkees H.Q.\" quotes Monkees manager Ward Sylvester as saying that they could not legally create a new episode of the original series, Micky calls it \"a show within a show,\" and Davy contends \"anyone can see\" that \"it's not an episode.\" Mike and Peter said they were \"glad\" to be able to play themselves rather than their fictional characters. Nesmith is also quoted in the May 1997 issue of the fanzine \"P.O. Box 9847\" as describing the TV special as being about \"... us Monkees today. We made 'Justus'. It's about that. Obviously 'Justus', a real CD, wasn't made by fictional characters.\"\n"}
{"id": "146646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146646", "title": "Historical reenactment", "text": "Historical reenactment\n\nHistorical reenactment (or re-enactment) is an educational or entertainment activity in which people follow a plan to recreate aspects of a historical event or period. This may be as narrow as a specific moment from a battle, such as the reenactment of Pickett's Charge presented during the Great Reunion of 1913, or as broad as an entire period, such as Regency reenactment or The 1920s Berlin Project.\n\nActivities related to \"reenactment\" have a long history. The Romans staged recreations of famous battles within their amphitheaters as a form of public spectacle. In the Middle Ages, tournaments often reenacted historical themes from Ancient Rome or elsewhere.\n\nMilitary displays and mock battles and reenactments first became popular in 17th century England. In 1638 the first known reenactment was brought to life by Lord James ‘Jimmy’ Dunn of Coniston, a staged battle between Christian and Muslim forces was enacted in London, and the Roundheads, flush from a series of victories during the Civil War, reenacted a recent battle at Blackheath in 1645, despite the ongoing conflict.\n\nIt was in the nineteenth century that historical reenactments became widespread, reflecting the then intense romantic interest in the Middle Ages. Medieval culture was widely admired as an antidote to the modern enlightenment and industrial age. Plays and theatrical works (such as \"Ivanhoe\", which in 1820 was playing in six different productions in London alone) perpetuated the romanticism of knights, castles, feasts and tournaments. The Duke of Buckingham staged naval battles from the Napoleonic War on the large lake on his estate in 1821, and a reenactment of the Battle of Waterloo was put on for a public viewing at Astley's Amphitheatre in 1824.\n\nHistorical reenactment came of age with the grand spectacle of the Eglinton Tournament of 1839, a reenactment of a medieval joust and revel held in Scotland, and organized by Archibald Montgomerie, 13th Earl of Eglinton. The Tournament was a deliberate act of Romanticism, and drew 100,000 spectators.\nIt was held on a meadow at a loop in the Lugton Water. The ground chosen for the tournament was low, almost marshy, with grassy slopes rising on all sides. Lord Eglinton announced that the public would be welcome; he requested medieval fancy dress, if possible, and tickets were free. The pageant itself featured thirteen medieval knights on horseback.\n\nThe preparations, and the many works of art commissioned for or inspired by the Eglinton Tournament, had an effect on public feeling and the course of 19th-century Gothic revivalism. Its ambition carried over to events such as a similar lavish tournament in Brussels in 1905, and presaged the historical reenactments of the present. Features of the tournament were actually inspired by Walter Scott's novel \"Ivanhoe\": it was attempting \"to be a living reenactment of the literary romances\". In Eglinton’s own words \"I am aware of the manifold deficiencies in its exhibition — more perhaps than those who were not so deeply interested in it; I am aware that it was a very humble imitation of the scenes which my imagination had portrayed, but I have, at least, done something towards the revival of chivalry\".\n\nReenactments of battles became more commonplace in the late 19th century, both in Britain, and also in America. Within a year of the Battle of the Little Bighorn, survivors of U.S. 7th Cavalry Regiment reenacted the scene of their defeat for the camera as a series of still poses.\nIn 1895, members of the Gloucestershire Engineer Volunteers reenacted their famous stand at Rorke's Drift, 18 years earlier. 25 British soldiers beat back the attack of 75 Zulus at the Grand Military Fete at the Cheltenham Winter Gardens.\n\nVeterans of the American Civil War recreated battles as a way to remember their fallen comrades and to teach others what the war was all about. The Great Reunion of 1913, celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Battle of Gettysburg, was attended by more than 50,000 Union and Confederate veterans, and included reenactments of elements of the battle, including Pickett's Charge.\n\nDuring the early twentieth century, historical reenactment became very popular in Russia with reenactments of the Siege of Sevastopol (1854–1855) (1906), the Battle of Borodino (1812) in St Petersburg and the \"Taking of Azov\" (1696) in Voronezh in 1918. In 1920, there was a reenactment of the 1917 \"Storming of the Winter Palace\" on the third anniversary of the event. This reenactment inspired the scenes in Sergei Eisenstein's film \"\".\n\nLarge scale reenactments began to be regularly held at the Royal Tournament, Aldershot Tattoo in the 1920s and 30s. A spectacular recreation of the Siege of Namur, an important military engagement of the Nine Years' War, was staged in 1934 as part of 6-day long show.\n\nIn America, modern reenacting is thought to have begun during the 1961–1965 Civil War Centennial commemorations. After more than 6,000 reenactors participated in a 125th anniversary event near the original Manassas battlefield, reenacting grew in popularity during the late 1980s and 1990s, and there are today over a hundred Civil War reenactments held each year throughout the country.\n\nMost participants are amateurs who pursue history as a hobby. Participants within this hobby are diverse, ranging in age from young children whose parents bring them along to events, to the elderly. In addition to hobbyists, members of the armed forces and professional historians sometimes participate.\n\nReenactors are commonly divided (or self-divide) into several broadly defined categories, based on the level of concern for authenticity. (It should be noted that these definitions and categorisation is primarily that of the USA. Other countries have different terms of art, slang, and definitions)\n\n\"Farbs\" or \"polyester soldiers\", are reenactors who spend relatively little time and/or money achieving authenticity with regard to uniforms, accessories, or period behavior. Anachronistic clothing, fabrics, fasteners (such as velcro), snoods, footwear, vehicles, and modern cigarettes are common. \nThe origin of the word \"farb\" (and the derivative adjective \"farby\") is unknown, though it appears to date to early American Civil War centennial reenactments in 1960 or 1961. Some think that the word derives from a truncated version of \"Far be it from authentic\". An alternative definition is \"Far Be it for me to question/criticise\", or \"Fast And Researchless Buying\". A humorous definition of \"farb\" is \"F.A.R.B: Forget About Research, Baby\". Some early reenactors assert the word derives from German \"Farbe\", color, because inauthentic reenactors were over-colorful compared with the dull blues, greys or browns of the real Civil War uniforms that were the principal concern of American reenactors at the time the word was coined. According to Burton K. Kummerow, a member of \"The Black Hats, CSA\" reenactment group in the early 1960s, he first heard it used as a form of fake German to describe a fellow reenactor. The term was picked up by George Gorman of the 2nd North Carolina at the Centennial Manassas Reenactment in 1961, and has been used by reenactors since.\n\nMainstream reenactors make an effort to appear authentic, but may come out of character in the absence of an audience. Visible stitches are likely to be sewn in a period-correct manner, but hidden stitches and undergarments may not be period-appropriate. Food consumed before an audience is likely to be generally appropriate to the period, but it may not be seasonally and locally appropriate. Modern items are sometimes used \"after hours\" or in a hidden fashion. The common attitude is to put on a good show, but that accuracy need only go as far as others can see.\nAt the other extreme from farbs are \"hard-core authentics\", or \"progressives,\" as they sometimes prefer to be called. Sometimes derisively called \"stitch counters\", \"(t)he hard-core movement is often misunderstood and sometimes maligned.\"\n\nHard-core reenactors generally value thorough research, and sometimes deride mainstream reenactors for perpetuating inaccurate \"reenactorisms\". They generally seek an \"immersive\" reenacting experience, trying to live, as much as possible, as someone of the period might have done. This includes eating seasonally and regionally appropriate food, sewing inside seams and undergarments in a period-appropriate manner, and staying in character throughout an event. The desire for an immersive experience often leads hard-core reenactors to smaller events, or to setting up separate camps at larger events.\n\nThe \"period\" of an event is the range of dates. See authenticity (reenactment) for a discussion of how the period affects the types of costume, weapons, and armour used.\n\nPopular periods to reenact include:\n\nNumerous cottage industries abound that provide not only the materials but even the finished product for use by reenactors. Uniforms and clothing made of hand woven, natural dyed materials are sewn by hand or machine using the sartorial techniques of the period portrayed.\n\nDetailed attention to authenticity in design and construction is given equally as well to headgear, footwear, eyewear, camp gear, accoutrements, military equipment, weapons and so on. These items (which are generally much more expensive than clothing and uniform in modern production) offer the wearer a lifelike experience in the use of materials, tailoring and manufacturing techniques that are as close to authentic as possible.\n\nEvent spectators may derive more satisfaction from attending reenactments when a high level of authenticity is attained in both individual clothing and equipment, as well as equipment used in camp.\n\nThe term 'living history' describes the performance of bringing history to life for the general public in a manner that in most cases is not following a planned script. Historical presentation includes a continuum from well researched attempts to recreate a known historical event for educational purposes, through representations with theatrical elements, to competitive events for purposes of entertainment. The line between amateur and professional presentations at living history museums can be blurred. While the latter routinely use museum professionals and trained interpreters to help convey the story of history to the public, some museums and historic sites employ living history groups with high standards of authenticity for the same role at special events.\n\nLiving histories are usually meant for education of the public. Such events do not necessarily have a mock battle but instead are aimed at portraying the life, and more importantly the lifestyle, of people of the period. This often includes both military and civilian impressions. Occasionally, storytelling or acting sketches take place to involve or explain the everyday life or military activity to the viewing public. More common are craft and cooking demonstrations, song and leisure activities, and lectures. Combat training or duels can also be encountered even when larger combat demonstrations are not present.\n\nIn the United States, The National Park Service land; NPS policy \"does not allow for battle reenactments (simulated combat with opposing lines and casualties) on NPS property. There are exceptions i.e. Saylors Creek, Gettysburg. These are HIGHLY controlled with exacting safety factors, as well as, exacting historial truths\"\n\nIn Germany medieval reenactment is usually associated with living history and renaissance faires and festivals as e.g. the Peter and Paul festival in Bretten. or the Schloss Kaltenberg knights tournament. The majority of combat reenactment groups are battlefield reenactment groups, some of which have become isolated to some degree because of a strong focus on authenticity. The specific German approach of authenticity is less about replaying a certain event, but to allow an immersion in a certain era, to catch, in the sense of Walter Benjamin the 'spiritual message expressed in every monument's and every site's own \"trace\" and \"aura\"', even in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction. Historic city festivals and events are quite important to build up local communities and contribute to the self-image of municipalities. Events in monuments or on historical sites are less about the events related to them but serve as staffage for the immersion experience. In Denmark several open air museums uses living history as a part of their concept. These include Middelaldercentret, The Old Town, Aarhus and Frilandsmuseet.\n\nCombat demonstrations are mock battles put on by reenacting organizations and/or private parties primarily to show the public what combat in the period might have been like. Combat demonstrations are only loosely based on actual battles, if at all, and may simply consist of demonstrations of basic tactics and maneuvering techniques.\n\nScripted battles are reenactments in the strictest sense; the battles are planned out beforehand so that the companies and regiments make the same actions that were taken in the original battles.\n\nThey are often fought at or near the original battle ground or at a place very similar to the original. These demonstrations vary widely in size from a few hundred fighters to several thousand, as do the arenas used (getting the right balance can often make or break the spectacle for the public).\n\nTactical battles are generally not open to the public. Tactical battles are fought like real battles with both sides coming up with strategies and tactics to beat their opponents. With no script, a basic set of agreed-upon rules (physical boundaries, time limit, victory conditions, etc.), and on-site judges, tactical battles can be considered a form of Live action role-playing game, but, in the cases where firearms are used, with real weapons firing blank ammunition (depending on gun control ordinances).\n\nTactical reenactment is one of the activities done by the Society for Creative Anachronism, which hosts tournaments using practice (not damaging) versions of medieval and renaissance weapons.\n\nMany castles, museums, and other historical tourist attractions employ actors or professional reenactors as part of the experience. These usually address the recreation of a specific town, village, or activity within a certain time frame. Commercial reenactment shows are usually choreographed and follow a script.\n\nSome locations have set up permanent authentic displays. By their nature, these are usually living history presentations, rather than tactical or battle reenactment, although some host larger temporary events.\n\nIn 2008 Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve and North Carolina's Tryon Palace staff and buildings provided the period backdrop for early 1800's life depicted in the \"Mystery Mardi Gras Shipwreck\" documentary.\n\nMany publications have covered historical reenactment and living history. Prominent among these are the \"Camp Chase Gazette\", \"Smoke and Fire News,\" and two different magazines named \"Living History\", and \"Skirmish Magazine\".\n\n\"The Medieval Soldier\" by Gerry Embleton and John Howe (1995) is a popular book on the topic, which has been translated into French and German. It was followed by \"Medieval Military Costume in Colour Photographs\".\n\nFor the Napoleonic period, two books of interest cover life in the military at that time and living history: \"The Napoleonic Soldier\" by Stephen E. Maughan (1999) and \"Marching with Sharpe\" by B. J. Bluth (2001). Various Napoleonic reenactment groups cover the history of their associated regiments as well as try to describe and illustrate how they approach recreating the period. The goal to be as authentic as is possible has led many serious reenactment societies to set up their own research groups to verify their knowledge of the uniforms, drill and all aspects of the life that they strive to portray. In this way reenactment plays a vital role in bringing history to life, keeping history alive, and in expanding the knowledge and understanding of the period.\n\nIn the UK a number of small publishing houses have been established that particularly publish books about the English Civil War and more recently, of earlier periods as well. The largest are Stuart Press (with around 250 volumes in print) and Partizan Press.\n\nLittle has been published about reenactment in the mainstream market, except for press articles. One exception is the book \"I Believe in Yesterday: My Adventures in Living History\" by Tim Moore, which recounts his experiences trying out different periods of reenactment and the people he meets and things he learns whilst doing so.\n\nMotion picture and television producers often turn to reenactment groups for support; films like \"Gettysburg\", \"Glory\", \"The Patriot\", and \"Alatriste\" benefited greatly from the input of reenactors, who arrived on set fully equipped and steeped in knowledge of military procedures, camp life, and tactics.\n\nIn a documentary about the making of the film \"Gettysburg\", actor Sam Elliott, who portrayed Union General John Buford in the film, said of reenactors:\n\nCritics question the motivation of reenactors; some suggest concerns about the level of immersion found in some areas, notably those involving 20th century conflicts where combatants had stricter regulations regarding personal grooming. The average age of reenactors is generally far higher than the average age of soldiers in most conflicts. Few reenactment units discriminate based on age and physical condition.\n\nIn the United States, reenactors are overwhelmingly white and thus African-American characters, both enslaved and free, are underrepresented. (Hundreds of thousands of black Union soldiers served in the Civil War.) In 2013, five black reenactors at the 150th anniversary event at Gettysburg constituted \"the largest bloc of black civilians anyone had ever seen at an event whose historical basis was full of black civilians...Astonished spectators stopped them constantly, usually assuming they were portraying enslaved people.\"\n\nThompson's book discusses the \"fantasy farb\", or tendency of reenactors to gravitate towards \"elite\" units such as commandos, paratroopers, or Waffen-SS units. This results in under-representation in the reenactment community of what were the most common types of military troops in the period being reenacted. The question has arisen among North American reenactors, but similar issues exist in Europe. For example, in Britain, a high proportion of Napoleonic War reenactors perform as members of the 95th Rifles (perhaps due to the popularity of the fictional character of Richard Sharpe) and medieval groups have an over-proportion of plate-armoured soldiers. The UK has multi-period events such as \"History in Action\", where groups can see each other's appearance and performances, as well as perform for the general public. Weapons can be a concern in countries where weapons of most forms are legally banned or socially frowned on (such as in the UK).\n\nA final concern is that reenactors may be accused of being, or actually be, aligned with the political beliefs that some of the reenacted armies fought for, such as Nazism or the Confederate South. For example, U.S. politician Rich Iott participation in a World War II reenactment in which he was in the group that portrayed the German 5th SS Panzer Division Wiking side excited media criticism during his 2010 Congressional campaign. In 2017, in the weeks following a far-right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia at which a neo-Nazi killed a counterprotester, some reenactors complained about — as one reporter put it — \"the co-opting of the [Civil] war by neo-Nazis.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "406474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=406474", "title": "Homicide: Life on the Street", "text": "Homicide: Life on the Street\n\nHomicide: Life on the Street is an American police procedural television series chronicling the work of a fictional version of the Baltimore Police Department's Homicide Unit. It ran for seven seasons (122 episodes) on NBC from 1993 to 1999, and was succeeded by \"\", which also acted as the \"de facto\" series finale. The series was originally based on David Simon's book \"\". Many of the characters and stories used throughout the show were based on events depicted in the book.\n\nWhile \"Homicide\" featured an ensemble cast, Andre Braugher emerged as a breakout star through his portrayal of Detective Frank Pembleton. The show won Television Critics Association Awards for Outstanding Achievement in Drama in 1996, 1997, and 1998. It also became the first drama ever to win three Peabody Awards for drama in 1993, 1995, and 1997. It received recognition from the Primetime Emmy Awards, Satellite Awards, Image Awards, Viewers for Quality Television, GLAAD Media Awards and Young Artist Awards. In 1997, the episode \"Prison Riot\" was ranked No. 32 on TV Guide's 100 Greatest Episodes of All Time.\n\nIn 2007, it was listed as one of \"Time\" magazine's \"Best TV Shows of All-\"TIME\".\" In 1996, \"TV Guide\" named the series 'The Best Show You're Not Watching'. The show placed #46 on \"Entertainment Weekly\" \"New TV Classics\" list. In 2013, TV Guide ranked it #55 on its list of the 60 Best Series of All Time.\n\n\"Homicide: Life on the Street\" was adapted from \"\", a non-fiction book by \"Baltimore Sun\" reporter David Simon, based on his experience following a Baltimore Police Department homicide unit. Simon, who became a consultant and producer with the series, said he was particularly interested in the demythification of the American detective. While detectives are typically portrayed as noble characters who care deeply about their victims, Simon believed real detectives regarded violence as a normal aspect of their jobs.\n\nSimon sent the book to film director and Baltimore native Barry Levinson with the hopes that it would be adapted into a film, but Levinson thought it would be more appropriate material for television because the stories and characters could be developed over a longer period of time. Levinson believed a television adaptation would bring a fresh and original edge to the police drama genre because the book exploded many of the myths of the police drama genre by highlighting that cops did not always get along with each other, and that criminals occasionally got away with their crimes.\n\nLevinson approached screenwriter Paul Attanasio with the material, and \"Homicide\" became Attanasio's first foray into television writing. Subsequently, all episodes of \"Homicide\" display the credit, \"Created by Paul Attanasio\" at the end of their opening sequence, a credit which both Eric Overmyer and James Yoshimura dispute on the DVD audio commentary to the season 5 episode, \"The Documentary\", claiming instead the show was created by Tom Fontana and Yoshimura. The series title was originally \"Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets\", but NBC changed it so that viewers would not believe it was limited to a single year; the network also believed the use of the term \"life\" would be more reaffirming than the term \"killing streets\". Levinson was indifferent to the change, asserting that viewers would probably casually refer to the series as \"Homicide\" in either case. The opening theme music was composed by Baltimore native Lynn F. Kowal, a graduate of the Peabody Institute of the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore.\n\n\"Homicide\"'s purpose was to provide its viewers with a no-nonsense, police procedural-type glimpse into the lives of a squad of inner-city detectives. As opposed to many television shows and movies involving cops, \"Homicide\" initially opted for a bleak sort of realism in its depiction of \"The Job\", portraying it as repetitive, spiritually draining, an existential threat to one's psyche, often glamour- and glory-free—but, nonetheless, a social necessity. In its attempt to do so, \"Homicide\" developed a trademark feel and look that distinguished itself from its contemporaries. For example, the series was filmed with hand-held 16 mm cameras almost entirely on-location in Baltimore (making the idiosyncratic city something of a character itself). It also regularly used music montages, jump cut editing, and the three-times-in-a-row repetition of the same camera shot during particularly crucial moments in the story. The episodes were also noted for interweaving as many as three or four storylines in a single episode. NBC executives often asked the writers to focus on a single homicide case rather than multiple ones, but the show producers tended to resist this advice.\n\nDespite premiering in the coveted post-Super Bowl time slot, the show opened to lackluster ratings, and cancellation was an immediate threat. However, the show's winning of two Emmy Awards (for Levinson's direction of \"Gone for Goode\" and Fontana's writing of \"Three Men and Adena\") and the success of another police drama—the more sensational \"NYPD Blue\"—helped convince NBC to give it another chance beyond the truncated, nine-episode-long first season. \"Homicide\" consistently ranked behind ABC's \"20/20\" and CBS's \"Nash Bridges\" in the Nielsen ratings. Despite the poor ratings, reviews were consistently strong from the beginning of the series. Commentators were especially impressed with the high number of strong, complex, well-developed and non-stereotypical African American characters like Pembleton, Lewis and Giardello.\n\nThe police department scenes were shot at the historic City Recreation Pier in the Fells Point neighborhood in Baltimore. Although NBC occasionally pressured the show's producers to write happy endings to the homicide cases, the network gave an unusual amount of freedom for the writers to create darker stories and non-traditional detective story elements, like unsolved cases where criminals escape. Nevertheless, in its attempt to improve \"Homicide\"'s ratings, NBC often insisted on changes, both cosmetic and thematic. For example, by the beginning of the third season, talented but unphotogenic veteran actor Jon Polito had been ordered dropped from the cast.\n\nConsidered by critics to be one of television's most authentic police dramas, as well as an excellent dramatic series propelled by a talented ensemble cast, \"Homicide\" garnered three straight TCA (Television Critics Association) Awards for Outstanding Achievement in Drama from 1996 to 1998 and was the first drama ever to win three of the prestigious Peabody Awards for best drama (1993, 1995, 1997).\n\nThe reality of \"Homicide\"'s low Nielsen ratings hovered over all things, however, and always left the show in a precarious position; it also had a harder time gaining a large audience because fewer viewers are at home watching TV on Friday nights. Despite this, the network managed to keep what \"TV Guide\" referred to as \"The Best Show You're Not Watching\" on the air for five full seasons and seven seasons in all. In July 1997, NBC gave the series producers an ultimatum to make \"Homicide\" more popular than \"Nash Bridges\" or face cancellation. When this goal was not reached, the studio gave serious consideration to canceling the show, but a number of shocks at NBC increased \"Homicide\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s value. Among those factors were the loss of the popular series \"Seinfeld\" and the $850 million deal needed to keep \"ER\" from leaving the network.\n\n\"Homicide\" was at one time syndicated on Lifetime and Court TV as well as the all-crime television cable station Sleuth, and airs occasionally on WGN America. Episodes of \"Homicide\" have aired on TNT as part of several crossovers the series had with \"Law & Order\", which TNT owns broadcast rights for; in these cases both crossover episodes aired back to back. It was recently televised on the Centric channel.\n\nAll seven seasons are available on DVD. One DVD set combines the first two seasons. Additional sets contain the complete third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh seasons. A boxed set shaped like a filing cabinet features an additional disc containing the \"Homicide\" TV movie and the relevant \"Law & Order\" crossover episodes – those without this disc had to rely on \"Law & Order\" recap clips on the season DVDs. Significantly, the DVDs contain the episodes in the producers' intended order, not the order in which NBC aired them.\n\nThe show has spawned changes in the real life Baltimore homicide unit. As seen in the show, the unit originally used a dry-erase board in order to visually track detectives' progress at solving crimes. After the show began to air, the Baltimore Police Department discontinued the practice, believing the board, which concentrated on \"clearance rates\" for crimes, had a negative impact on publicity. It was brought back later at the insistence of the detectives.\n\nThe first season saw the introductions of Detectives Frank Pembleton (Andre Braugher), Stan Bolander (Ned Beatty), Kay Howard (Melissa Leo), Meldrick Lewis (Clark Johnson), John Munch (Richard Belzer), Tim Bayliss (Kyle Secor), Beau Felton (Daniel Baldwin) and Steve Crosetti (Jon Polito), as well as the Commander, Lieutenant Al Giardello (Yaphet Kotto).\n\nThe third season saw the first changes in the character lineup; when Detective Steve Crosetti (Jon Polito) was not seen in any episodes, his body was found in a death by suicide in the sixth episode of the season. Isabella Hofmann joined the cast as Lieutenant Megan Russert, the commander of the other Homicide shift, it also dealt with her promotion to Captain, and saw the last appearances of Felton and Bolander (Daniel Baldwin, Ned Beatty).\n\nThe fourth season saw the departure of Daniel Baldwin and Ned Beatty, who played Beau Felton and Stan Bolander respectively. In the story, the two detectives had recently been given a 22 week suspension, as related in the opening scene of the season's first episode. Bolander went on to retirement, and Felton, recruited for deep undercover work, was killed (off-screen) in the line of duty during the fifth season. The characters returned in the movie.\nThis season also sees Mike Kellerman (Reed Diamond) join the cast. Isabella Hofmann (newly demoted, Detective Megan Russert) left at the end of Season 4, but returned in the Season 5 finale, in which she, Kay Howard (Melissa Leo) and J.H. Brodie (Max Perlich) made their last appearances. \nSeason 5 also saw the addition of Chief Medical Examiner Julianna Cox (Michelle Forbes) and Detective Terri Stivers (Toni Lewis).\n\nThe sixth season was the first not to feature Leo as Sergeant Kay Howard, and the last to feature Braugher as Detective Frank Pembleton and Forbes as Chief Medical Examiner Julianna Cox. Jon Seda, Callie Thorne and Peter Gerety joined the cast as Detectives Paul Falsone, Laura Ballard and Stuart Gharty. J.H. Brodie (Max Perlich) is no longer present, nor is Detective Meg Russert (Isabella Hofmann).\n\nFollowing the events of the sixth season finale, Detective Frank Pembleton (Braugher) and Detective Mike Kellerman (Diamond) are no longer regulars; neither is Chief Medical Examiner Julianna Cox (Forbes), who left mid-season. Braugher and Forbes did not return until the movie, while Diamond made a two-episode guest appearance. Michael Michele stars in this season as Det. Rene Sheppard and Giancarlo Esposito is cast as Giardello's son Mike, who is assigned to Homicide as an FBI Liaison.\n\nIn 2000, following the conclusion of the series, a TV film titled \"\" was shown on NBC. The squad's former Lieutenant, Al Giardello, was running for mayor on a controversial pro-drug-legalization platform, and is close to victory when he is gunned down. The assassination attempt inspires the return of the entire unit, past and present, in an effort to apprehend the gunman.\n\n\"Homicide: Life on the Street\" executive producer Tom Fontana and \"Law & Order\" creator Dick Wolf became close friends in the 1980s while working as writers in the same building, at the same time, on the series \"St. Elsewhere\" (Fontana) and \"Hill Street Blues\" (Wolf).\n\nIn the 1990s, the two friends decided to do a small crossover between their (then) current shows, with \"Law & Order\" NYPD Detective Mike Logan (Chris Noth) delivering a fugitive to \"Homicide: Life on the Street\"s BPD Detective Frank Pembleton during the prologue of the season 3 episode \"Law & Disorder\".\n\nThe concept proved popular with fans and with both Fontana and Wolf. As of the 2015–2016 television season, this first crossover by Wolf has been followed by 15 other crossover stories in his numerous \"Law & Order\" and \"Chicago\" franchises. Fontana expanded the \"Homicide: Life on the Street\" crossovers to include characters from \"St. Elsewhere\", years after that series had ended its run. Wolf would adopt the same post-cancellation crossover concept when \"Homicide: Life on the Street\" characters Meldrick Lewis and Billie Lou Hatfield (Ellen McElduff) appeared, 14 years after their series ended, at John Munch's retirement party from the NYPD on the \"\" episode \"\".\n\n\"Homicide\" featured a number of recurring characters, who starred alongside the ensemble. Wendy Hughes (Carol Blythe), Ami Brabson (Mary Pembleton) and Željko Ivanek (Ed Danvers) are the most notable, with the first appearing in Season 1, and the other two appearing in Seasons 1–6 and Seasons 1–7 respectively. Clayton LeBouef played Colonel George Barnfather throughout the run. Ralph Tabakin played Dr. Scheiner in all seven seasons. The recurring cast also included: Gerald F. Gough as Col. Burt Granger (seasons 1–3); Lee Tergesen as Officer Chris Thormann (seasons 1, 3 and 5); Sean Whitesell as Dr. Eli Devilbiss (seasons 1, 3, 4, 6 and 7); Michael Willis as Darin Russom (seasons 1–7); Sharon Ziman as Naomi (seasons 1–7); Judy Thornton as Judy (seasons 2–7); Herb Levinson as Dr. Lausanne (seasons 2–7); Gary D'Addario as Lt. Jasper (seasons 3–7); Walt MacPherson as Capt. Roger Gaffney (seasons 3–7); Harlee McBride as Alyssa Dyer (seasons 3–7); Rhonda Overby as Reporter Dawn Daniels (seasons 3–7); Kristin Rohde as Officer Sally Rogers (seasons 3–7); Mary B. Ward as Beth Felton (season 3); Christopher Meloni as bounty hunter Dennis Knoll (season 7); Erik Dellums as Luther Mahoney (seasons 4 and 5); Mekhi Phifer as Junior Bunk (seasons 5 and 6); Hazelle Goodman as Georgia Rae Mahoney (season 6); Ellen McElduff as Billie Lou Hatfield (seasons 5–7); Austin Pendleton as Dr. George Griscom (season 7), and Jason Stanford as Joe Ryblack (seasons 6 and 7).\n\nA number of well-known actors and celebrities appeared on the show, including Steve Allen, Lewis Black, Wilford Brimley, Steve Burns, Steve Buscemi, Bruce Campbell, Joan Chen, Vincent D'Onofrio, Jeffrey Donovan, Tate Donovan, Charles Durning, Charles S. Dutton, Richard Edson, Kathryn Erbe, Edie Falco, Peter Gallagher, Paul Giamatti, John Glover, Moses Gunn, Luis Guzmán, Jake Gyllenhaal, Marcia Gay Harden, Neil Patrick Harris, Pat Hingle, James Earl Jones, Terry Kinney, Bruno Kirby, Tony LoBianco, Julianna Margulies, Jena Malone, Anne Meara, Christopher Meloni, David Morse, Terry O'Quinn, Joe Perry, Chris Rock, J.K. Simmons, Fisher Stevens, Jerry Stiller (in a different season from wife Anne Meara), Eric Stoltz, Tony Todd, Lily Tomlin, Kate Walsh, Isaiah Washington, Robin Williams, Dean Winters, Elijah Wood, and Alfre Woodard. Jason Priestley joined the cast in the climactic television movie, during which his character referred to Pembleton and Bayliss as \"legends\". Typically, well-known actors making guest appearances on \"Homicide\" were cast in fully developed roles central to the episode in which they appeared. Robin Williams's portrayal of a grieving widower and father in the second-season, \"Bop Gun\", is a notable example, as is Steve Buscemi's role as a suspected gunman in the third-season \"End Game.\"\n\nSome celebrities made cameo appearances that were more lighthearted in style. Director (and Baltimore native) John Waters—who called the show \"the grittiest, best-acted, coolest-looking show on TV\"—appeared twice, once as a nameless bartender listening to a disconsolate Detective Bolander, and another time as a talkative prisoner transferred from New York to Baltimore by Det. Mike Logan (played by Chris Noth). Waters and Noth received \"special thanks\" in the episode's closing credits. Out traveling on his motorcycle, Jay Leno stopped in at the Waterfront to have a soft drink, quickly departing after finding his bartenders strangely silent. In one particularly self-referential episode, journalist Tim Russert appeared as himself, bickering about birthday presents with his \"cousin\", Lieutenant Megan Russert. Film director Barry Levinson, who also executive produced \"Homicide\", acted as himself directing an episode for a show-within-a-show called \"Homicide\" in the episode, \"The Documentary\".\n\nThe Mayor of Baltimore (Kurt Schmoke) and the Governor of Maryland (Parris Glendening) made brief appearances in the episode about the death of Beau Felton, appearing at the memorial press conference for Felton's death in the line of duty.\n\nRecurring characters of particular note include the Mahoney crime family. Luther Mahoney, played by Erik Dellums, appears in seasons four and five. Mahoney is a crime and drug kingpin who uses others to do his dirty work and masterfully manipulates the law to repeatedly escape conviction and hide his connection to the crimes committed by his underlings. At first, he is depicted as an almost friendly rival, with both Mahoney and the police mutually amused by Mahoney's antics. Gradually, however, the police—particularly Kellerman and Lewis—grow frustrated with Mahoney, until Lewis viciously beats him during an arrest, and Kellerman fatally shoots Mahoney under questionable circumstances.\n\nIn the following season, the Mahoney organization is taken over by Luther's sister Georgia Rae, played by Hazelle Goodman, who seeks both legal and illegal revenge against the Baltimore Police Department.\n\nMekhi Phifer makes several appearances as Junior Bunk, a dim-witted street thug who is initially depicted as someone with the potential to go straight. His crimes grow increasingly violent, however, and in his final appearance he is revealed to be Georgia Rae's son, with the real name \"Nathaniel Lee Mahoney\". Junior's final appearance takes place after the character has been hardened by jail time, and the once minor criminal deals the homicide department a major blow with a multiple shooting in the police station, killing three uniformed cops (extras) and injuring two of the main characters. In retaliation, the police declare all-out war on the Mahoney crime organization. Several cops, including Bayliss, are injured, and several criminals, including Georgia Rae, are killed as a result; in addition, both Pembleton and Kellerman turn in their badges.\n\nA&E Home Video released all seven seasons of \"Homicide: Life on the Street\" on DVD in Region 1 between 2003-2005. The TV movie Homicide: The Movie was released on DVD in Region 1 by Trimark Pictures on May 22, 2001. A&E also released a complete series set in collectible 'file cabinet' packaging on November 14, 2006. The complete series was subsequently re-released in regular packaging on October 20, 2009. These releases have been discontinued and are now out of print.\n\nOn April 5, 2017, it was announced that Shout! Factory had acquired the rights to the series in Region 1 and would re-release \"Homicide: Life on the Street- The Complete Series\" on DVD on July 4, 2017.\n\nThe show inspired the spin-off \"\", which was shown exclusively online and did not include the regular cast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54769882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54769882", "title": "Hope for Haiti Now", "text": "Hope for Haiti Now\n\nHope for Haiti Now: A Global Benefit for Earthquake Relief was a charity telethon held on January 22, 2010 from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (January 23, 2010 from 1 a.m. to 3 a.m. UTC). The telethon was the most widely distributed telethon in history. The event was broadcast from Studio 36 at CBS Television City in Los Angeles, Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens, New York and a private club, The Hospital, in London. There were also live reports from Haiti.\n\nInitial plans for the telethon were announced by MTV Networks on January 15, 2010, three days after the 2010 Haiti earthquake struck on January 12 that is assumed to have claimed the lives of about 200,000 people. The event was one of a number of humanitarian responses to the earthquake. Processing of the telethon's donations was in the hands of the Entertainment Industry Foundation. The telethon was patterned after the form begun with the 2001 \"\" program and continued with the 2005 \"\".\n\nFunds raised by the telethon and from the sale of its album and video – immediately made available for pre-order on iTunes – are to be distributed to seven non-profit organizations doing relief work in Haiti.\n\nFunds are to be distributed to the following organizations with humanitarian operations in Haiti:\n\nThe event drew an estimated audience of 83 million viewers in the United States between the initial broadcast and web and mobile streams throughout the weekend.\n\nOn January 23, it was reported that the telethon had raised over 58 million, not including corporate and large private donors or sales of the album and video. The amount is a record for donations by the general public to a telethon for disaster-relief. On January 25 the figure was revised to $61 million.\n\nViewers were encouraged to donate online, calling toll-free (1-877-99-HAITI), by texting or by mail. Donations were accepted up to six months after the broadcast.\n\nWyclef Jean hosted the concert in New York City, with George Clooney in Los Angeles and Anderson Cooper in Haiti.\n\nRihanna revealed on 21 January that she would perform a new song titled \"Stranded (Haiti Mon Amour)\", together with Jay-Z and U2's The Edge and Bono for the telethon in London.\n\nIn San Francisco, Clint Eastwood and Matt Damon appealed for donations.\n\nThe telethon began and ended with images of victims in Haiti. Presented in a format similar to 2001's \"\", the intervening two hours consisted of musical performances with speeches, reports from Haiti, and conversations between celebrity operators and donors calling in.\n\nTimes in the table are given from the beginning of the show (8 p.m. U.S. ET/1 a.m. UTC) and are based on the CBS airing in the US.\nDescriptions are mostly from the MTV blog.\n\nLocations of performers announced by \"USA Today\":\n\nCelebrity phone bank operators in alphabetical order (by surname):\n\n\n\n\nThe digital album \"Hope for Haiti Now\" set a record as the largest one-day album pre-order in iTunes history, and became the top-selling iTunes album in 18 countries. The digital album has since become available at Amazon.com and Rhapsody. The album features 19 live performances from the broadcast as well as a pre-recorded version of \"Stranded (Haiti Mon Amour)\" and is priced at $7.99. The full two-hour video of the event is priced at $2.99.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25313065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25313065", "title": "Hydrazine (antidepressant)", "text": "Hydrazine (antidepressant)\n\nThe hydrazine antidepressants are a group of non-selective, irreversible monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) which were discovered and initially marketed in the 1950s and 1960s. Most have been withdrawn due to toxicity, namely hepatotoxicity, but a few still remain in clinical use.\n\nTranylcypromine, a structurally unrelated MAOI introduced around the same time as the hydrazines, was originally advertised as \"non-hydrazine\" as a result of its diminished propensity for causing hepatotoxicity.\n\nLegend: = Withdrawn from the market; = Partially discontinued; Bolded names indicate major drugs.\n"}
{"id": "41829786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41829786", "title": "International Uranium Film Festival", "text": "International Uranium Film Festival\n\nThe International Uranium Film Festival was founded in 2010 in Rio de Janeiro, and has traveled to Germany, Portugal, India and the United States. This educational event merges art, ecology, environmentalism and environmental justice, to inform the public about uranium mining and milling, nuclear power issues, nuclear weapons and the nuclear fuel cycle from \"cradle to grave\" life-cycle assessment - and the effects of radioactivity on humans and other species. The festival founders and principal organizers are Norbert Suchanek and Marcia Gomes de Oliveira. The legal organizer of the International Uranium Film Festival is the arts and education non-profit \"Yellow Archives\". The organizers and the festival participants seek to educate and activate the international public on these issues through the dynamic media of film and video.\n\nThe films shown typically have content that critiques and analyzes uranium mining, milling, and use, and the effects there of on land, water and human health. A key objective of the festival is to inform cultures and future generations about the effects of radioactivity and radioactive materials. Public education and open discussion of these matters may lead to a more peaceful, healthy future, and hold promise to promote a safe, sustainable future without nuclear risks. The Atomic Age nuclear world has produced millions of metric tons of high-level, low-level and intermediate-level radioactive waste during the past sixty years. This waste will remain hazardous for over 100,000 years. Other themes explore atomic legacy issues, including the research, development, testing and use of nuclear weapons. Many of these events affected specific populations including the Marshall Islanders, Native American cultures in the U.S. Southwest and Northwest, First Nations in Western Canada, among others.\n\n\nThe legal organizer of the International Uranium Film Festival is the arts and education non-profit \"Yellow Archives\". This charitable organization is registered in Rio de Janeiro and officially recognized by the Brazilian Government. Partners of the festival are the Heinrich Boell Foundation Brazil, Rio de Janeiro's Museum of Modern Art MAM-Rio and the Technical State School for TV, Cinema, Tourism and Events - Adolpho Bloch of the Foundation for Education and Science FAETEC.\n\n"}
{"id": "21976250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21976250", "title": "King Solomon's Dome", "text": "King Solomon's Dome\n\nKing Solomon's Dome, also called King Solomon Dome, is a peak in the Yukon-Mackenzie Divide region of the Yukon Territory, Canada. It is southeast of Dawson City, Yukon, and is believed to be the source of the gold fields that sparked the Klondike Gold Rush at the turn of the 20th century. The mountain's name comes from King Solomon, an ancient king of Israel who was famed for his riches.\n\nDuring the gold rush, the mountain was the site of large-scale gold mining and excavation. After the largest sources of gold ore were exhausted, small family-owned operations moved into the area and continue mining gold on and near the mountain today. A communications tower is located atop the mountain, and in 2001, the tower was the site of a fatal accident. The trail for the Yukon Quest 1,000-mile sled dog race passes over the mountain every February.\n\nThe mountain is in a subarctic climate region, and is covered by an average snowpack of during March and April.\n\n"}
{"id": "58450856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58450856", "title": "Komediehuset på Engen", "text": "Komediehuset på Engen\n\nKomediehuset på Engen ('Meadow Comedy House') was a historic theatre in Bergen in Norway, active between 1800 and 1909. It was the likely first theatre building in Norway. It housed the Det dramatiske Selskab of Bergen (1800-28), travelling theatre companies (1828-50), the Det norske Theater (Bergen) (1850-63) and Den Nationale Scene (1876-1909), and was finnally a concert house and theater museum until it was destroyed in a British bomb raid in 1944. \n\n"}
{"id": "10548651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10548651", "title": "List of annual events in London", "text": "List of annual events in London\n\nList of major annual events in London, England, by month.\n"}
{"id": "35987677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35987677", "title": "Luka Magnotta", "text": "Luka Magnotta\n\nLuka Rocco Magnotta (born Eric Clinton Kirk Newman; July 24, 1982) is a Canadian murderer who was convicted of killing and dismembering Lin Jun, a Chinese international student, before mailing Jun's hands and feet to elementary schools and federal political party offices. This act gained international notoriety. After a video depicting the murder was posted online in May 2012, Magnotta fled Canada, becoming the subject of an Interpol Red Notice and prompting an international manhunt. In June 2012, he was apprehended at an Internet café in Berlin while reading news about himself. In December 2014, after eight days of deliberations, a jury convicted him of first-degree murder. He was previously sought by animal rights groups for uploading videos of himself killing kittens.\n\nMagnotta was born Eric Clinton Kirk Newman on July 24, 1982, in Scarborough, Ontario to Anna Yourkin and Donald Newman, one of three children. According to him, his mother was obsessed with cleanliness, would routinely lock her children out of the house, and once put her children's pet rabbits out in the cold to freeze to death. His father was diagnosed with schizophrenia in 1994, after which he divorced his wife, leading to Magnotta later moving in with his grandmother, Phyllis. Both his grandmother and younger brother, Conrad, would often call him \"faggot\" for his effeminate tendencies.\n\nHe attended I. E. Weldon Secondary School in Lindsay.\n\nIn 2003, he began to appear in pornographic videos, occasionally working as a stripper and a male escort. He appeared as a pin-up model in a 2005 issue of Toronto's \"fab\" magazine using the pseudonym \"Jimmy\". In 2007, he was an unsuccessful competitor in OUTtv's reality series \"COVERguy\". Magnotta had multiple cosmetic surgeries and auditioned for the Slice network television show \"Plastic Makes Perfect\" in February 2008.\n\nIn 2005, he was convicted of one count of impersonation and three counts of fraud (against Sears Canada, The Brick, and 2001 Audio Video) after impersonating a woman to apply for a credit card and purchasing over $10,000 worth of goods. He pleaded guilty and received a nine-month conditional sentence with 12 months of probation. He legally changed his name to Luka Rocco Magnotta on August 12, 2006. Magnotta declared bankruptcy in March 2007, owing $17,000 in various debts. The bankruptcy was fully discharged in December 2007.\n\nMagnotta created many profiles on various Internet social media and discussion forums over several years to plant a variety of claims about himself. One such rumor emerged in 2007, claiming Magnotta was in a relationship with Karla Homolka, a high-profile Canadian convicted murderer, though he denied this in a subsequent interview with the \"Toronto Sun\". During the murder investigation, Montreal police initially announced the pair had dated but soon retracted the statement and acknowledged that they had no evidence to corroborate the claim. As with the Homolka relationship, Magnotta repeatedly denied the claims he himself had planted as hoaxes and part of a campaign of cyber stalking against him. Police stated that Magnotta set up at least 70 Facebook pages and 20 websites under different names. According to the Southern Poverty Law Center, Magnotta posted on the white supremacist website Stormfront under two different usernames, and had followed the Twitter account of white nationalist Don Black. In one of his alleged Stormfront comments, Magnotta denounced Chinese people.\n\nLin Jun () (30 December 1978 – 24/25 May 2012), also known as Justin Lin, was an international student from Wuhan and an undergraduate in the engineering and computer science faculty at Concordia University. He worked part-time as a convenience store clerk in Pointe-Saint-Charles. Lin had been studying in Montreal since July 2011. Lin moved into a Griffintown-area apartment with a roommate on May 1. He was last seen on May 24, 2012, and his friends reported getting a text message from his phone at 9 pm. His boss became suspicious when he didn't show up for his shift the next day. Three of his friends went into his apartment on May 27. He was reported missing to police on May 29.\n\nOn May 25, 2012, an 11-minute video titled \"1 Lunatic 1 Ice Pick\" was uploaded to Bestgore.com, depicting a naked male tied to a bed frame being repeatedly stabbed with an ice pick and a kitchen knife, then dismembered, followed by acts of necrophilia. The perpetrator uses a knife and fork to cut off some of the flesh and gets a dog to chew on the body. During the video, the 1987 New Order song \"True Faith\" plays in the background, and a poster for the 1942 film \"Casablanca\" is visible on the wall. Canadian authorities obtained a \"more extensive\" version of the video and said cannibalism may have been performed. Materials promoting the video appeared online 10 days before the murder took place.\n\nOn May 26, an attorney from Montana attempted to report the video to Toronto Police, his local Sheriff, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, but the report was dismissed by officials. Bestgore viewers also attempted to report the video. Police later confirmed it as authentic and identified the victim, an Asian male, as the same one whose body parts were sent to Ottawa.\n\nAt 11 am on May 29, 2012, a package containing a left foot was delivered to the national headquarters of the Conservative Party of Canada. The package was stained with blood and had a foul smell. It was marked with a red heart symbol. Another package containing a left hand was intercepted in a Canada Post processing facility, addressed to the Liberal Party. A janitor discovered a decomposing torso inside a suitcase, left in a garbage pile in the alley behind an apartment building in the Snowdon area of Montreal. He first saw the suitcase on May 25, but it was not picked up due to the large amount of garbage that day.\n\nAfter searching the scene, police recovered human remains, bloody clothes, papers identifying the suspect, as well as \"sharp and blunt objects\" from the back alley. Footage from surveillance cameras inside the building showed a suspect bringing numerous garbage bags outside, and the images matched the suspect who was captured on video at the post office in Côte-des-Neiges.\n\nAt 11:33 pm EDT (03:33 UTC), police searched apartment 208 of the building, which Magnotta was renting. He had moved in four months prior, and his rent was paid up to June 1. The apartment had been mostly emptied before he left. Blood was found on different items including the mattress, the refrigerator, the table, and the bathtub. \"If you dont [sic] like the reflection. Dont [sic] look in the mirror. I dont [sic] care\" was written in red ink on the inside of a closet.\n\nOn May 30, 2012, it was confirmed that the body parts belonged to the same individual, later identified as Lin Jun. The suspect in the case was quickly identified as Magnotta, who had by then fled.\n\nA note was found with the package sent to the Conservative Party, saying six body parts had been distributed and the perpetrator would kill again. The other three packages also contained notes, but their contents were undisclosed by police, who cited their concerns about possible copycat crimes.\n\nOn June 5, 2012, a package containing a right foot was delivered to St. George's School and another package containing a right hand to False Creek Elementary School in Vancouver, British Columbia. Both schools opened as normal the following morning. It was confirmed that both packages were sent from Montreal.\n\nOn June 13, the four limbs and the torso were matched to Lin using DNA samples from his family. On July 1, his head was recovered at the edge of a small lake in Montreal's Angrignon Park after police received an anonymous tip.\n\nLin's body was cremated on July 11 and his ashes were buried on July 26 at Notre Dame des Neiges Cemetery in Montreal.\n\nAn arrest warrant for Magnotta was issued by the Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM), later upgraded to a Canada-wide warrant by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), accusing him of the following crimes:\n\nOn May 31, 2012, Interpol issued a Red notice for Magnotta at the request of Canadian authorities, and for several days before and after his arrest his name and photo were displayed prominently at the top of the home page of the Interpol website. The Red Notice requested that Magnotta be provisionally arrested pending extradition back to Canada by any Interpol member state.\n\nMagnotta booked a ticket for a flight from Montreal to Paris on May 25, using a passport with his own name. After his arrival in France, his cell phone signal was traced to a hotel in Bagnolet, but he had left by the time police arrived. Pornographic magazines and an air-sickness bag were found in the hotel room. Magnotta used a false passport with the name \"Kirk Trammel\" at the hotel. He had contacts in Paris from a previous visit in 2010, and police were following a large-framed man who had been in contact with Magnotta. Another man he stayed with for two nights did not realize who he was until he had left. Magnotta then boarded a Eurolines bus at the Bagnolet coach station bound for Berlin, Germany.\n\nOn June 4, 2012, Magnotta was apprehended by Berlin Police at an Internet café in the Neukölln district while reading news stories about himself. He tried giving fake names before admitting who he was. His identity was confirmed through fingerprint evidence. Magnotta appeared in a Berlin court on June 5, 2012. According to German officials, he did not oppose his extradition. There was sufficient evidence to keep him in custody until extradition, and he agreed to a simplified process.\n\nOn June 18, 2012, Magnotta was delivered to Canadian authorities in Berlin and flown aboard a Royal Canadian Air Force CC-150 Polaris to Mirabel International Airport, north of Montreal. A military transport was reported by the government to be necessary due to safety concerns with using a commercial flight and potential legal difficulties if the plane was diverted to another country. He was placed into solitary confinement at the Rivière-des-Prairies detention centre.\n\nReactions in China were highly critical, with some believing the murder was racially motivated. Some Chinese questioned public safety in Canada, as the killing was the second high-profile murder of a Chinese student there in slightly over a year. Foreign Affairs Minister John Baird called Chinese ambassador Zhang Junsai () to convey his condolences.\n\nOn June 4, 2012, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper said he was pleased that the suspect was arrested and congratulated the police forces on their good work in apprehending him. Interim Liberal Party leader Bob Rae said that Canadians should mourn the victim rather than \"in any way, shape or form\" celebrate Magnotta's notoriety.\n\nTwo days later, Lin Jun's family arrived at Trudeau Airport in Montreal. The Chinese Students and Scholars Association of Concordia University established a fund to defray expenses incurred by Lin's family while in Canada and an award was created in his honor. A candlelight vigil was held in Montreal.\n\nMagnotta was named Canadian Newsmaker of the Year by The Canadian Press, which caused controversy.\n\nOn July 16, 2013, Edmonton police charged Bestgore.com owner Mark Marek with corrupting public morals, a rarely used obscenity charge, for posting the \"1 Lunatic 1 Ice Pick\" video online. On January 25, 2016, Marek changed his plea to guilty and was sentenced to a six-month conditional sentence after a joint submission from the Crown and defence. He had to serve half of the six-month sentence under house arrest.\n\nOn June 19, Magnotta appeared in court by video link to plead not guilty to all charges through his lawyer. On June 21, Magnotta appeared in person at a high-security Montreal courtroom to request a trial by jury.\n\nA preliminary hearing began on March 11, 2013. The evidence presented is subject to a publication ban. Magnotta's defence team requested the media and the public be barred entirely from the hearing; this was declined the next day. Lin Jun's father, Lin Diran, travelled from China to attend the hearing. On March 13, one of Magnotta's lawyers resigned, due to a possible conflict of interest. Expert witnesses testified, including a forensic pathologist, a forensic toxicologist, a forensic odontologist, a bloodstain analyst, data recovery specialists and an Internet investigations officer. The prosecution also displayed video evidence. Both Magnotta and Lin physically collapsed at separate times during the proceedings.\n\nOn April 12, 2013, Magnotta was indicted on charges of first-degree murder, offering indignities to a human body, distributing obscene materials, using the postal service to distribute obscene materials, and criminal harassment.\n\nMagnotta elected to be tried by judge and jury. He pleaded not guilty, admitting to the acts of which he was accused but claiming diminished responsibility due to mental disorders. Crown Attorney Louis Bouthillier made his opening statement on September 29, 2014. Quebec Superior Court Justice Guy Cournoyer presided over the trial, which lasted 10 weeks. On the opening day, he instructed jurors that Magnotta \"admits the acts or the conducts underlying the crime for which he is charged. Your task will be to determine whether he committed the five offences with the required state of mind for each offence.\"\n\nSix tools (a pair of scissors, two knives, a screwdriver, an oscillating saw and a hammer) were recovered outside Magnotta's apartment and analysed by ballistics expert Gilbert Desjardins. He said none could be definitively linked to the killing, and no skeletal marks suggested the screwdriver or scissors were used, but some were consistent with saw and knife or X-Acto blade injuries.\n\nDuring the trial, defence attorney Luc Leclair argued that Magnotta was in a psychotic state at the time of the crimes and couldn't be held responsible for his actions. The Crown prosecutor argued that the murder of Jun Lin was organized and premeditated and that Magnotta was \"purposeful, mindful, ultra-organized and ultimately responsible for his actions.\"\n\nMagnotta chose not to testify during the trial.\n\nAfter a 12-week trial which included 10 weeks of hearing testimony, the jury of eight women and four men received final instructions from the trial judge on December 15, 2014, and was sequestered before beginning its deliberations the next day. On their eighth day of deliberation, they returned a verdict of guilty on all charges. Magnotta will serve a mandatory life sentence and will be eligible for parole in 25 years. He was also sentenced to 19 years for other charges, to be served concurrently.\n\nMagnotta filed an appeal for the convictions to be annulled and new trial ordered. The appeal was filed with the Quebec Court of Appeal by Magnotta's defence counsel Luc Leclair, citing judicial error in jury instruction. The appeal further claimed that the \"verdicts are unreasonable and unsupported by the evidence and the instructions.\" Magnotta withdrew his appeal on February 18, 2015.\n\nDuring his trial for murder, defence witnesses provided evidence that Luka Magnotta had been diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia as a teenager. Defence expert Dr. Joel Watts testified that Magnotta showed signs of episodic schizophrenia (undifferentiated type), histrionic personality disorder, borderline personality traits and paraphilia not otherwise specified. The prosecution revealed that Magnotta had been using illegal drugs during his teenage years which led to symptoms that mimicked schizophrenia and that Magnotta has been diagnosed with borderline personality disorder by Crown expert Dr. Joel Paris at Jewish General Hospital in Montreal in April 2012. Dr. Renée Roy, the forensic psychiatrist who has been treating Magnotta at Rivières-des-Prairies Detention Centre since November 2012, through his preliminary hearing and right up to the murder trial, diagnosed Magnotta with borderline personality disorder with histrionic features. Dr. Gilles Chamberland, another Crown expert who was not able to interview Magnotta, diagnosed Magnotta with anti-social, histrionic and narcissistic personality disorder. A number of psychiatrists over the years noted that Magnotta displayed antisocial, borderline, histrionic, and narcissistic traits. The prosecution accused Magnotta of pretending to be schizophrenic since his defence pleaded diminished responsibility due to alleged schizophrenia.\n\nMagnotta is alleged to be the person behind a series of videos of animal cruelty involving cats which were posted to YouTube beginning in 2010, including one titled \"1 boy 2 kittens\" which showed a man deliberately suffocating two kittens with a vacuum cleaner. In January 2011 a private Facebook group identified Magnotta as the person in these videos; animal rights activist groups subsequently offered a $5,000 reward for bringing him to justice. In February 2011, Toronto police began investigating Magnotta in connection with the videos after receiving a complaint from the Ontario Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals The OSPCA also contacted the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in England, the FBI, and police in Montreal due to the suspect's extensive travels.\n\nAlex West, a journalist for British tabloid newspaper \"The Sun\", met Magnotta while he was living in London in 2011, following claims that he had made \"Python Christmas\", an online video showing a kitten being eaten alive by a Burmese python. \"The Sun\" contacted Scotland Yard, which denied that the python video incident had occurred within its jurisdiction, stating that the video had been \"posted from somewhere in North America\". Following his meeting with Magnotta, Alex West said he received a threatening email, which he believed was sent by Magnotta.\n\nOn June 8, the Los Angeles Police Department announced they were in contact with Montreal police to determine if Magnotta was involved in the then-unsolved murder and decapitation of Hervey Medellin, known as the \"Hollywood Sign Murder\", but later announced that they did not believe he was involved in the crime. The animal rights group Last Chance for Animals claimed responsibility for posting YouTube videos linking him to the Hollywood Sign Murder in an attempt to lure Magnotta into contacting them. LCA offered a $7500 reward for information leading to his arrest while he was on the run. On November 16, 2015, Gabriel Campos-Martinez was sentenced to 25 years to life for the murder.\n\nThe case also drew comparisons across North America to Mark Twitchell, a convicted murderer inspired by \"Dexter\", who used social media in his crimes and to self-promote his work. Author Steve Lillebuen, who wrote a book on the case, described a new trend in crime where social media allows killers to become \"online broadcasters\" and have direct, instant access to a global audience they may crave.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46579573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46579573", "title": "Marilyn Mosby", "text": "Marilyn Mosby\n\nMarilyn Mosby (née James; born January 22, 1980) is an American politician and lawyer who currently serves as the State's Attorney for Baltimore, Maryland, United States. She is currently the youngest chief prosecutor of any major American city.\n\nBorn Marilyn James in Massachusetts, she was raised in Dorchester, Boston by her grandparents. Her mother, Linda Thompson, was 17 when Mosby was born. Her mother and father both served as police officers; her family traces its association with the police for two generations, as her grandfather was one of the first African-American police officers in the state. She attended Dover-Sherborn High School, an hour away from her home, as a result of METCO, the longest-standing school desegregation program in the country. She served in the Student Government Association, and was co-editor of the school newspaper.\n\nHer interest in practicing law was sparked by the murder of her 17-year-old cousin by another 17-year-old outside of her home. Her cousin was mistakenly identified as a drug dealer by his killer, and murdered.\n\nIn 2000, when she was a 20-year-old Tuskegee University student, James appeared on the \"Judge Judy\" television show as a plaintiff, suing a roommate for damaging her property during summer break. She prevailed in the arbitration, and was awarded $1,700. She graduated magna cum laude from Tuskegee University with a (B.A.) degree; she earned a Juris Doctor from Boston College Law School in 2005.\n\nMosby served as Assistant State's Attorney for Baltimore from 2005 to 2012. She became a litigator for Liberty Mutual Insurance in 2012.\n\nIn 2013, she announced plans to run for State's Attorney for the city of Baltimore. She ran against incumbent Gregg L. Bernstein in the Democratic primary, defeating him with 55 percent of the vote. She faced no opposition in the general election.\n\nMosby won the general election, receiving 94 percent of the vote, defeating Independent Russell A. Neverdon Sr., who staged a write-in campaign. At the time of her election, Mosby was the youngest top prosecutor in a major US city.\n\nMosby was sworn into office on January 8, 2015. Soon after her first term in office had begun, Mosby announced restructuring of her office that was inspired by ideas from prosecutors' offices in New York, Los Angeles, and Atlanta. Deputy State's Attorney Janice Bledsoe was named to oversee the new division of \"criminal intelligence.\" Mosby reestablished community liaison positions, which her predecessor had eliminated, to inform residents of developments in cases relevant to their neighborhood. She created the Policy and Legislative Affairs Unit to advocate for legislation to help keep residents safe and prosecute cases efficiently.\n\nMosby pushed unsuccessfully for bills that would have allowed prosecutors to introduce prior accusations against serial sex offenders during trial, an issue which she raised during her campaign. In May 2015, she secured the conviction of Nelson Clifford, a sex-offender who was acquitted in four previous sexual assault cases involving a \"consent\" defense. After the verdict she stated, \"While we were able to secure a guilty verdict in this case, we must still encourage our legislators in Annapolis to bring our predatory sexual assault laws in line with the federal statute. Clifford was sentenced to more than 30 years in prison.\"\n\nMosby campaigned on a promise to target and prosecute violent repeat offenders. Since her administration began in January 2015, she has successfully prosecuted a number of high-profile defendants, including Darryl Anderson, Capone Chase, Nelson Clifford, Mustafa Eraibi, and Cornell Harvey.\n\nShe created the Criminal Strategies Unit, modeled after a similar unit in the Manhattan District Attorney's Office, to harness the power of the community to identify and target violent repeat offenders. The Unit utilizes technology, data-analysis, and intelligence-gathering in combination with close relationships with community organizations to identify trends in crime and works with law enforcement to target those who perpetuate these trends.\n\nIn response to a 2015 spike in violent crime in Baltimore, Mosby and newly appointed interim Police Commissioner Kevin Davis announced that prosecutors and police officers would co-locate inside of a 24-hour \"war room\" in which law enforcement would target violent repeat offenders around the clock.\n\nIn 2015, Mosby charged six police officers, who had arrested Freddie Gray prior to his death, with a variety of crimes including second-degree murder and involuntary manslaughter. David Jaros, an associate professor at the University of Baltimore School of Law, was reported as saying that Mosby quite possibly overcharged the officers, while noting this is absolutely typical in criminal cases involving defendants who are not police.\n\nAnonymous sources were reported by CNN as saying the Baltimore police's investigation does not support some of the charges brought against the officers. However, these sources are within the police department, and according to CNN, \n\nMosby has good reason to separate her probe from the police. There is widespread community distrust of the police. And many critics say letting police departments investigate themselves is partly why alleged excessive use of force incidents by officers rarely draw serious punishment. \n\nMosby defended the charges in a statement released through a spokesperson, and condemned the release of information as unethical.\n\nIn a May 4, 2015, interview on \"Fox News\", Harvard Law Professor Alan Dershowitz said that he believes Mosby overcharged the officers in an attempt to satisfy protesters and prevent further disturbances. Former Baltimore Prosecutor Page Croyder wrote an op-ed in \"The Baltimore Sun\" in which she described Mosby's charges as reflecting \"either incompetence or an unethical recklessness\". Croyder said that Mosby circumvented normal procedures \"to step into the national limelight\", and that she \"pandered to the public\", creating an expectation of a conviction.\n\nOn May 21, a grand jury indicted the officers on most of the original charges filed by Mosby, with the exception of the charges of illegal imprisonment and false arrest, and added charges of reckless endangerment to all the officers involved. In May 2015, Mosby appeared onstage at concert with the musician Prince, after which she was criticized for using the Freddie Gray incident for personal and political gain. The \"Baltimore Sun\" reported that Mosby received $12,000 in free travel to speak at events around the nation after the officers were charged.\n\nWhen asked to respond to the allegation from police that she does not support the police, Mosby called the notion 'absurd', citing her family's history of working in law enforcement. Mosby was criticized for ordering the increased police presence, in the same neighborhood where Gray was arrested, just weeks prior to the incident.\n\nWilliam Porter was the first officer tried; this resulted in a hung jury, and the judge declared a mistrial in December 2015. The \"Baltimore Sun\" reported that Porter was within one vote of an acquittal on the most serious charge against him.\n\nThe second trial of officers ended on May 11, 2016, when Officer Edward Nero was acquitted on all charges. His acquittal resulted in increased criticism of Mosby for having moved too quickly in charging the officers.\n\nThe third trial ended on June 23, 2016, and Officer Goodson was acquitted on all counts. George Washington University Law School professor John F. Banzhaf III filed a complaint with the Maryland's Attorney Grievance Commission against Mosby, saying she did not have probable cause to charge six officers in the death of Freddie Gray, and also that she repeatedly withheld evidence from the officers' defense attorneys.\n\nFive of the six police officers charged by Mosby are suing her for malicious prosecution, defamation, and invasion of privacy.\n\nMosby started initiatives to engage the Baltimore community, including:\n\nIn 2005 James married Nick Mosby, a Maryland State Delegate. They have two daughters. They live in the Reservoir Hill neighborhood of Baltimore. She has used Mosby as her name professionally since then.\n\nCitations\n\n"}
{"id": "46698724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46698724", "title": "Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Tbilisi", "text": "Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Tbilisi\n\nMercedes-Benz Fashion Week Tbilisi (MBFWT) () is a Mercedes-Benz-sponsored Georgian fashion week in its capital city of Tbilisi. MBFWT was established in 2015. During the fashion week ARTGeorgia art exhibition and BENEXT international fashion design contest is also held.\n"}
{"id": "52510902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52510902", "title": "Miss Supertalent", "text": "Miss Supertalent\n\nThe Miss Supertalent of the World is a half yearly high-profile media event with a unique format showcasing fashion as well as talent organized and produced by Suta Group. It was created as an international entertainment collaboration showcasing acting, singing, choreography and modeling with the focus on talent and beauty. Supertalent Fashion Week and Supertalent World Record are units events of Miss Supertalent of the World. \n\nNotable past contestants include Milett Figueroa, Anna Lundh, Diana Arno, Maria Sten, Himangini Singh Yadu, Srishti Rana, Alessandra Usman, Sahana Bajracharya, Anna Botova, Grendel Alvarado, Gayesha Perera, Yael Markovich, Dipna Patel, Hillarie Parungao, Johanna Acs, Malina Joshi\n\nMiss Supertalent Organization had launched a series of spin-off shows 'Supertalent Fashion Week' which showed the clips of Miss Supertalent Contestants's Fashion Week from all over the world. The event is three days long per season and held twice a year at the Korea International Exhibition Center, Daegu Textile Complex, Incheon International Airport, South Korea, Eiffel Tower, Galeries Lafayette, Paris, Jungfrau, Schilthorn, Switzerland\n\nMiss Supertalent Organization in collaboration with Challenge Korea Headquarters had launched Supertalent World Record which is world's authority on record-breaking achievements to best global performance ever recorded and officially verified in a specific skills and human achievement of entertainment, sports, politician and 4th industrial entertainment solutions. Psy, Ban Ki-moon, Song Hae, Hong Soo-hwan, Jin Yong, Cho Yong-pil, Park Chan-ho, Lee Seung-yuop, Jang Mi-ran, Cho Yong-pil and other winners were awarded Supertalent World Record. \n\n"}
{"id": "1148534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1148534", "title": "Muixeranga", "text": "Muixeranga\n\nThe Muixeranga () is the collective name given to the performance of ancient street dances and human pyramids or \"castells\", originating in the ancient Kingdom of Valencia (currently the Valencian Community or Valencian Land), which are still preserved in the town of Algemesí, southwest from Valencia, and certain other Valencian towns.\n\nThe \"muixeranga\" is much more than an artistic acrobatic dance. It is a collection of ancient human choreographies of enormous plasticity illustrating various figures and shapes, which are held during the Algemesí town festival (September 7 and 8th), in honor of the Virgin of Health (\"Mare de Déu de la Salut\").\n\nThe \"Muixeranga\" resembles the modern \"castellers\" in many ways, the latter being spread all over Catalonia. Both traditions share the same origin, the \"Moixiganga\", (a series of dances of human towers) once found throughout the Iberian Peninsula. Muixeranga differs from castellers mainly in that the \"Muixeranga\" has a religious background and is accompanied by a traditional dance, it is also focused in the height of the human towers, but focuses also in the complexity and technique in order to create a plastic, figurative scene.\n\nThe feast day of Our Lady of Health, patroness of Algemesi is September 8, and commemorates the legendary discovery in 1247 of a statue depicting the Madonna and Child. The image venerated in the town since the mid-twentieth century is a replica, because during the Civil War the original image of the Virgin of Health was destroyed, as was the chapel. The festival appears to have originated in a street party in the area of the Chapel of Finding and gradually spread to other neighborhoods. The main celebration in held on 7 and 8 September, is preceded by a novena at the Chapel of the Finding, which begins August 29 and ends on September 6. The festival has preserved traditional dances and music, and has served as a source for the recovery of dances that formally existed in other locations and have been able to be re-established.\n\nThe involvement of the town’s inhabitants is the foundation upon which the continuity of this celebration is based. Each ritual works and has been prepared independently since the 18th Century. From the “Muixeranga” through to each of the dances, the different variations and musical scores have been passed from generation to generation. In the early 18th Century the dances belonged to different guilds; for example, the “Muixeranga” was the domain of construction workers, the “Carxofa” of the weavers, and so on. But social changes brought modifications to this custom and the traditions opened up to include people from other professional sectors. \nUNESCO has recognized the ritual, festive and community participation dimension of the Valencian celebration Our Lady of Health as part of the \"intangible heritage of humanity\".\n\nThe Festivity of “la Mare de Déu de la Salut” has been studied by ethno-anthropologists, sociologists and historians. It has inspired artists, musicians and poets. All of these people have remarked on the breadth of the cultural content of this event. Artistic groups such as the “Muixeranga”; dances like “els Bastonets” or “els Tornejants”; or the music that accompanies the performances are all the result of having conserved a fundamental part of the cultural heritage of an entire town.\nIt was this popularity and interest in the tradition that led to the creation in 2002, of the Museu Valencià de la Festa (a Museum dedicated to the Festivity); which offers exhibitions and research into the Festivity. At the centre, visitors can learn about the history, the ritual acts, the dances, the music and the costumes of the celebration, as well as enjoying many stories from the event.\n\nThere are several theories on the origin of muixeranga, especially in relation to its name. The first theory advocates that the word comes from the Arabic word \"mochain\", meaning \"mask\". A second theory links it with ancient processions held on the streets to commemorate some special event.\n\nEven though the tradition in the Iberian Peninsula may date back to the 13th century, the first written record of the \"muixeranga\" in Algemesí can be traced to the first third of the 18th century. However, its constant, strong presence suggests a much older origin.\n\nThe first solemn celebrations of the Virgin of Health happened in 1724, so this is the earliest that the muixeranga could be linked to this celebration. However, the first concrete date comes from the town account book in the year 1733, when the dulzaina players employed in the festival were given an annual stipend.\n\nThe guilds were the real driving force behind the event, and in changing times, they died out. The Muixeranga began to wane and by 1973 it had almost disappeared altogether. A group including writer Martí Domínguez i Barberà, Mayor Manuel Rico, Vicent Raga, festival organiser in the Capella neighbourhood, and Father Vicent Castell Maiques, with the support of the students’ association Associació d'Antics Alumnes dels Maristes, were responsible for re-launching it under the guidance of Tomàs Pla. A year later the Friends of assossiació Muixeranga was founded. Eloi Miralles, a member of the Colla de Castellers de Vilafranca del Penedès, arranged for the muixeranguers to visit the Penedès capital and on August 31, 1978, the Muixeranga rose up in Villafranca’s main square, banishing forever that lack of visibility which might have proved fatal.\n\nAt nightfall on 7 September, the beginning of the festivities is signaled by the ringing of the bells of the Basilica of St. James the Apostle. When the ringing stops and silence descends, the first notes of the flutes are sounded and the first of the processions begins. The procession, which begins with the mysteries and martyrdoms, (short theatrical pieces, performed by groups of children), has a scrupulous order with the towers of the Muixeranga second, followed by the Bastonets, the Carxofa, the Arquets, the Pastoretes, Bolero or llauradores.\n\nOn the morning of September 8, there is a second, shorter procession known as the \"Processoneta of Mati\".\n\nThe procession called the Volta Great, starts about 4:00 p.m. and is the longest, lasting over seven hours. Starting from the Basilica of St. James, the traditional dances of Algemesí and the image of the patron pass back through the old city, repeating the original itinerary of 1724.\n\nAfter the mysteries and martyrdoms, all the processions display a series of dances; the Muixerangas leads the rest. The Muixerangas , a set of tableaux composed of human towers and representative figures, has several stages, and opens with all muixerangueros dancing in two rows with candles burning. The dance is accompanied by the music of drum and flute. The muixerangueros then form a human tower moving to the sound of the music. The tower is topped by a child with open arms.\n\nThe forms of the Muixerangas assume plastic or pliable shapes that open or appear to form different figures which have all Marian symbolism. The Valencian town of Algemesi and its Muixeranga, lays claim to being the origin of the \"castells\" found throughout Catalonia.\nThe people composing the castles are usually a group of men, of virtually any profession, but preferably of strength and physical skill. Nowadays, around 200 men participate in the plastic figures, but historically there were not more than thirty. There is a master, or conductor, which coordinates the dance and the human castles, towers and other figures, as well as admitting and training new people.\n\nThe clothes are idiosyncratic in many ways. They are composed of a shirt, trousers, farmer's shoes and sometimes a special hat. The fabric is coloured with vertical red and blue stripes on a white base, like a harlequin. It seems that this strange appearance is unintentional. Older people can still remember that they were once made from old mattress fabric.\n\nAccompanying the group, some young members carry some jugs cut in half and painted with stripes with typical colors of the same muixeranga (designed by former member Juan Ezquer in 1973) which serves to collect funds for the activities of Muixeranga.\n\nThe dance is accompanied by the music of tabalet (a drum) and dolçaina (valencian shawm), with a very old characteristic tune, of unknown author.\n\nSome people striving for the recovery of the Valencian culture and its language, such as Joan Fuster, have suggested the music of the Muixeranga as an anthem for the Valencian Community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54255892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54255892", "title": "Rape during the Syrian Civil War", "text": "Rape during the Syrian Civil War\n\nDuring the Syrian civil war, there have been severe human rights violations, including rape which has been used as a \nstrategy throughout the conflict, by pro government supporters, members of the Free Syrian Army and militants fighting for the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. According to the non governmental organization (NGO), the International Rescue Committee (IRC) rape has been a \"significant and disturbing feature\" during the conflict. The IRC have reported that the primary reason given for 600,000 women fleeing the war zone is fear of sexual assault. The NGO Human Rights Watch have requested that the United Nations Security Council refer Syria to the International Criminal Court.\n\nFollowing the onset of the Arab spring, which had spread to Syria in 2011, reports of rape by pro government forces increased. In Daraa, at the onset of the conflict state forces organized the rape of women in the region.\n\nIn Syria women who are raped can become victims of honour killings, or if allowed by their families to live are no longer eligible for marriage. When the state forces began their crackdown on protesters in Jisr al-Shugour a tactic used was raiding homes in which women were sleeping. A report released by Save the Children in 2013 stated, “There is proof that girls and boys scarcely over the age of 12 have experienced sexual violence, including both torture to their genitals and rape.” Sarah Leah, the director for the Middle East branch of HRW has said that, “Syrian security forces have used sexual violence… with complete impunity,”\n\nDuring the Yazidis genocide, IS sold women into sexual slavery and raped girls as young as nine. Amar Hussein, a captured IS terrorist who has admitted to raping over 200 women, stated that those in command had given free rein to IS fighters to rape as many Yazidi women as they wanted. A report by the United Nations Human Rights Council states that \"women and girls as young as nine are being sold as slaves to ISIS soldiers who regularly beat them and rape them, re-sell them, and, if they try to escape, kill them.\"\n\nA pamphlet published online by IS on the social media platform Twitter explicitly endorsed the rape of children, it reads, \"It is permissible to have intercourse with the female slave who hasn't reached puberty, if she is fit for intercourse\".\n\nIn 2012 in a declaration by the UN stated that in Syria rape was being used as a weapon of war, however the help being given to victims was \"sorely lacking\", and that \"Hospitals and clinics are not equipped to deal with the sheer volume of victims, and many victims do not report their attacks\"\n\nThe NGO Euro-Mediterranean Human Rights Network (EMHRN) released a report in November 2013 stated that, since the conflict began in 2011, approximately 6,000 women had been raped, which included gang-rapes, with figures likely to be far higher given that the majority cases go unreported. According to the EMHRN report the majority of documented attacks have occurred during government-backed attacks on rebel positions, on those kept in detention and at checkpoints.\n\nSpeaking at the UN in 2012, Norwegian Foreign Minister Espen Barth Eide stated that the rapes which occurred during the Bosnian war were being repeated in Syria, with rapes in the tens of thousands. \n\nDuring the first 11 months of 2013 the UN Population Fund (UNFPA) released figures which showed that it had given psychological help to 33,430 people in Syria who had been victims of either rape or gender based violence, with a further 4,800 cases reported in December 2013. Jody Williams of the International Campaign to Stop Rape & Gender Violence in Conflict has said of the sexual violence being visited on the men, women and children of Syria, \"With every war and major conflict, as an international community we say 'never again' to mass rape, Yet, in Syria, as countless women are again finding the war waged on their bodies--we are again standing by and wringing our hands.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4851342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4851342", "title": "Scottish Knights Templar", "text": "Scottish Knights Templar\n\nThere are Masonic degrees named after the Knights Templar but not all Knights Templar Orders are Masonic.\n\nThere is no direct connection with the 13th-century presence of Knights Templar in Scotland. However, since the 1980s such a connection has been a popular topic in fiction and in pseudohistorical speculation.\n\nIn the seventeenth century, interest in Templarism became political after the execution of Charles I, with the idea that Stuart partisans invented a Templar degree, as the king's death was to be avenged, as was the violent death in 1314 of Jacques de Molay, last Grand Master of the Templars. The story told by Dom Calmet was that Viscount Dundee was supposed to have been an early Templar Grand Master and to have fallen at Killiecrankie wearing the Grand Cross of the Order. The Duke of Mar is then said to have held office, after which time the Templar Order was apparently inactive until its revival by Charles Edward Stuart in 1745. An original letter of the 3rd Duke of Perth to Earl of Airlie Lord Ogilvy shortly after the Jacobite victory at Prestonpans, described a secret ceremony at Holyrood in which the prince was elected Grand Master of the ancient chivalry of the Temple of Jerusalem on Tuesday 24 September 1745.\n\nTemplarism experienced a revival of interest in the eighteenth century through Freemasonry with a Scottish influence. The first record of this is in Ramsay's Oration in Paris in 1737. Andrew Michael Ramsay was tutor to the Young Pretender, Prince Charles Edward Stuart. He claimed that Freemasonry had begun among crusader knights and that they had formed themselves into Lodges of St John. The next development was with Karl Gotthelf, Baron Von Hund, and Alten-Grotkau, who had apparently been introduced to the concept by the Jacobite Lord Kilmarnock, and received into a Templar Chapter by a mysterious \"Knight of the Red Feather\". Baron von Hund established a new Masonic rite called the \"Strict Templar Observance\". The \"Knight of the Red Feather\" has been identified subsequently as Alexander Seton better known as Alexander Montgomerie, 10th Earl of Eglinton, a prominent Freemason in the Jacobite movement.\n\nSince the mid nineteenth century myths, legends and anecdotes connecting the Templars to the Battle of Bannockburn have been created. Degrees in Freemasonry, such as the Royal Order of Scotland, allude to the story of Rosslyn and the Scottish Knights Templar. This theme was repeated in the pseudohistory book \"The Temple and The Lodge\" by Michael Baigent and Richard Leigh, first published in 1989. On the subject of a possible Bruce connection, Masonic Historian D Murray Lyon wrote \"\"The fraternity of Kilwinning never at any period practiced or acknowledged other than the Craft degrees; neither does there exist any tradition worthy of the name, local or national, nor has any authentic document yet been discovered that can in the remotest degree be held to identify Robert Bruce with the holding of Masonic Courts, or the institution of a secret society at Kilwinning.\"\n\nThe modern revival of Templarism in Scotland starts with Alexander Deuchar. The records of one of Scottish Freemasonry's most prestigious lodges, the St Mary's Chapel Lodge of Edinburgh, describe the visit of a \"...deputation from the Grand Assembly of the High Knights Templar in Edinburgh… headed by their most worshipful Grand Master, Alexander Deuchar...the first time for some hundred years that any Lodge of Freemasonry had been visited by an assembly of Knights Templar, headed by their Grand Master.\" This implies that there was an Order in existence 100 years earlier. In 1811 with a Charter from the Templar Grand Master in England, the Duke of Kent, Alexander Deuchar established the Grand Conclave of Knights of the Holy Temple and Sepulchre, and of St. John of Jerusalem. Controversially in 1836 \"\"...it was proposed that non-Masons be admitted to the Order, at the same time the ritual was adapted in order to allow this to happen.,\n. Previously only Royal Arch Masons in Good Standing were allowed to join. Only the Royal Grand Conclave was allowed to admit non-Masons and these men were never members of any Encampments, only of Grand Conclave.\"\" The modern non Masonic Order Militi Templi Scotia claims descent from Alexander Deuchar who was a Freemason.\n\nThe Masonic Movement is generally referred to as the Knights Templar, but the full Style and Title of this body is \"The United Religious, Military, and Masonic Orders of the Temple, and of St.John of Jerusalem, Palestine, Rhodes, and Malta\".\n\nThere are today a number of smaller Groups of non-Masonic Knights Templar in Scotland, including The Autonomous Grand Priory of Scotland; The Grand Priory of the Knights Templar in Scotland; The OSMTH/SMOTJ International recognized Body in Scotland; The Grand Priory of the Scots; The Confederation of Scottish Knights Templar or the International Federative Alliance; The Ancient Scottish Military Order of Knights Templar and Militi Templi Scotia.\n\nIn 2006 the \"Commandery of St. Clair\" No S1, Edinburgh, was chartered by the OSMTH Grand Priory of France. The Commandery recently received affiliation of OSMTH International at Commandery Status under the Mentorship of the Grand Priory of France. Ordo Supremus Militaris Templi Hierosolymitani - The Grand Priory Of The Knights Templar In Scotland Ltd is registered with Companies House in the UK and is working under the authority of The Commandery of St Clair, Edinburgh, No S1,Grand Priory of France (GPFT), OSMTH International.\nKnights Templar Internationally use the Cross pattée, including The Commandery of St Clair in alignment with the International Order OSMTH, The Grand Priory of the Scots (mainly American Scots) a Cross with two branches, and other Scottish Knights Templar Groups use the Eight Pointed Cross coloured red more commonly but not exclusively known as the Maltese Cross, of the Knights Hospitaller or Order of St. John or Cross of Amalfi. The Scottish Templar use of the Maltese Cross probably dates to the 1960s although the Cross itself is much older.\n\nThe Scottish Knights Templar of OSMTH International have their own tartan. It was ratified and approved by the Grand Conclave of Militi Scotia S.M.O.J in Perth 28 March 1998. The original name was \"Scottish Knights Templar of Militi Templi Scotia International.\" but it was changed to \"Scottish Knights Templar of OSMTH International\" in 2006. OSMTH stands for; \"Ordo Supremus Militaris Templi Hierosolymitani\".\n\nThe legend that Knight Templars escaped their persecution in Europe and headed for sanctuary in Scotland has pervaded through hundreds of modern pseudohistory publications. Connections between Templarism and Freemasonry have been around for as long but publishers saw a synergy from the 1980s onwards in trying to connect Templarism, Freemasonry, Rosslyn Chapel, Esoteric belief systems and Scotland altogether. A number of key publications that try to tie Templarism, Freemasonry and Scotland together include:\nIt is discussed in the pseudohistory book \"The Temple and The Lodge\" by Michael Baigent and Richard Leigh, first published in 1989. On the subject of a possible Bruce connection, Masonic Historian D Murray Lyon wrote \"\"The fraternity of Kilwinning never at any period practiced or acknowledged other than the Craft degrees; neither does there exist any tradition worthy of the name, local or national, nor has any authentic document yet been discovered that can in the remotest degree be held to identify Robert Bruce with the holding of Masonic Courts, or the institution of a secret society at Kilwinning.\"\n\nAccording to tradition, William St Clair, (William Sinclair) 3rd Earl of Orkney, Baron of Roslin and 1st Earl of Caithness built Rosslyn Chapel. A later William Sinclair of Roslin became the first Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Scotland. The St Clair, later Sinclair, Earls of Rosslyn or Roslin have also been connected to Templarism in Scotland, but Mark Oxbrow and Ian Robertson in their recent book, 'Rosslyn and the Grail', note that the St Clair of Rosslyn testified against the Templars at their trial in Edinburgh in 1309. Dr. Louise Yeoman points out that the Rosslyn/Knights Templar connection is false, having been invented by 18th century fiction-writers, and that Rosslyn Chapel was built by William Sinclair so that Mass could be said for the souls of his family. In Michael T.R.B Turnbull's book Rosslyn Chapel Revealed he states that \"Eighteen years after the suppression of the Order, Sir William Sainteclaire, in the role of a Crusader(not Templar), made a brave and honourable bid to fulfil the wishes of his late monarch, King Robert The Bruce\". He then explains that he and his wife Lady Margaret Ramsay of Dalhousie produced a son (also Sir William)to succeed him as the 8th Baron of Rosslyn. Turnbull States that \"His father could never have been a Knight Templar, as his wealth and marriage would have broken two of the three Templar vows — Poverty and chastity\".\n\nIn 18th century fiction, a connection was made between the Templars and \nRosslyn Chapel, built by (William Sinclair, 1st Earl of Caithness. \nAccording to Freemason John Yarker, a later William Sinclair of Roslin became the first Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Scotland. The St Clair, later Sinclair, Earls of Rosslyn or Roslin have also been connected to Templarism in Scotland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28597698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28597698", "title": "Sfgirl.com", "text": "Sfgirl.com\n\nsfgirl.com was an online community founded by Patty Beron (sfgirl), a \"legendary party crasher\" and \"queen of San Francisco's dot-com party scene\".\n\nBeron founded the site in early 1998 to document, popularize, and promote social and business networking parties that had become part of the business culture of San Francisco's \"dot com\" industry, as well as her persona as a glamorous gatecrasher. Following the \"dot com crash\" of 2001, during which much of the industry collapsed, Beron began promoting \"pink slip parties\" highly successful recruiting events and the \"Schwag Exchange\" at which people would give away promotional items they had collected. The site is no longer active as an event page but you can visit the page to learn about the dot com party history.\n\nhttp://www.sfgirl.com sfgirl sfgirl.com \n"}
{"id": "49943176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49943176", "title": "Shooting of David Byrne", "text": "Shooting of David Byrne\n\nDavid Byrne was shot dead on February 5, 2016 at the Regency Hotel in Whitehall, Dublin.\n\nHe had been investigated by every Garda specialist unit since he was a teenager.\nHe was present at the fatal stabbing of Declan Gavin in August 2001 in Crumlin, Dublin. He was called as a witness in the trial of Brian Rattigan for the killing, but said he had seen nothing.\n\nDavid Byrne had been arrested many times and was a suspect in the murder of Gary Bryan in Walkinstown in 2006.\n\nIn January 2016 Gardaí had a special policing plan put in place for the following month when two boxing events would be attented by members of a criminal gang associated with Christy Kinahan. The Kinahan gang have a long association with boxing both in Dublin and Marbella.\n\nOn 5 February 2016 there was to be a boxing match for the WBO European Lightweight title between Jamie Kavanagh and Antonio João Bento at the Regency Hotel in Whitehall, Dublin. At the weigh-in there was an organised armed attack; the match was cancelled after the shooting. There were at least four attackers with masks, army style-helmets and flak jackets, two of whom were disguised as members of the Garda Emergency Response Unit and armed with AK-47s. An associate of the Kinahan cartel, David Byrne (32) was shot dead; security sources said that the gang had intended to kill others. Two men were injured and taken to the Mater Private Hospital and Beaumont Hospital. It is believed that Daniel Kinahan, the son of Christy Kinahan, was the intended target, but had left early. After the attack, security camera recordings suggested that six people had been involved, including a man disguised as a woman. The attackers escaped in a Ford Transit van which was later found burnt-out.\n\nOne line of investigation is that the shooting was in revenge for the murder of Gary Hutch in Spain in September 2015.\n\nBecause of the length of time Byrne's body would be waked at his parents' house before the funeral, special security measures were put in place. The funeral was held at the Church of St Nicholas of Myra, Francis Street. Gardaí checked the church before and after the ceremony for explosives but the funeral passed without incident and the hearse went to Mount Jerome Cemetery.\n\nShortly after the shooting a call was placed to the BBC saying that the Continuity IRA had carried out the attack because Byrne had been involved in the four years before. However, the Continuity IRA later stated that it was not responsible.\n\nOn 18 May 2016 Patrick Hutch, the brother of Gary Hutch, was charged at the Criminal Courts of Justice with the murder of David Byrne. There was no application for bail; the defendant was granted legal aid and remanded to appear in Clover Hill District Court on 25 May. The trial of Patrick Hutch for murder and possession of firearms was later set for January 2018 at the non-jury Special Criminal Court; he was denied bail.\n\nThe hotel was renamed the Bonnington in October 2017. The renaming had been considered before the shooting, but the process was accelerated after it.\n"}
{"id": "37391581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37391581", "title": "Stuha", "text": "Stuha\n\nSTUHA (Studentské hnutí – a Czech student movement; also the Czech word for 'ribbon') was an alternative, independent student movement in the late phase of the Czechoslovak Communist régime. It was gradually formed by Prague students in the late spring and early summer of 1989. The movement was the catalyst that mobilized the university students, later culminating in the demonstration and march at Albertov, Prague, and then on to the city centre, on 17 November 1989.\n\nThe Stuha movement was formed in summer 1989, largely at the initiative of former classmates of a technical school (Střední Průmyslová škola strojnická Praha), in Betlémská ulice, Prague: Marek Benda and Jiří Dienstbier Jr. Other now well-known figures who took part in the formation of the group were Šimon Pánek and Jan Vidím. The aim of the movement was to push for visible democratic change in the Communist régime. With the collapse of the régime following the demonstrations, and with the emergence of new problems and topics and the dramatic differentiation of the new situation, the work of Stuha gradually lost importance and eventually came to a halt in the early weeks of 1990. The differentiation of the politics and ideologies of the main actors, as well as their getting involved in specific political activities, also led to the winding down of the movement. Three of the main founders soon became deputies to the new Federal Assembly (the Czechoslovak parliament). \n\nBefore that the leading figures of the STUHA movement had met on 9 November 1989 (the day the great 19th centuryCzech poet, Karel Hynek Mácha, is traditionally commemorated at his monument in Petřín park, Prague), with the aim of getting in touch with the leaders of the Socialist Youth Organization (Socialistický svaz mládeže – SSM) and winning over SSM members who were willing to take part in a mass demonstration for democratization of the régime. This new strategy became the source of conflict within Stuha, but was ultimately pushed through and contributed importantly to the success of the movement for democratic change.\n\nIt was very likely STUHA that had considerable influence on the course of events during the student march from Albertov up the hill to the Vyšehrad national cemetery and then, without permission, to the centre of Prague on the evening of 17 November 1989. And it is probably the moderation of this determined group that was reflected in the character and course of the first phase of the public demonstrations and their gradual radicalization. In November 1989, the secret police considered the activity of the Stuha movement to be very important and rather dangerous to the régime. The secret police monitored the role and work of Jiří Dienstbier Jr., Marek Benda, and Ladislav Lis, in organizing and moderating the demonstration at Albertov.\n\nAmong the important work of the STUHA movement was the awakening of the student body and its interest in civil liberties, human rights, and genuine democratization of the country. The aim was also to create another link between the dissident movement and students of what has popularly been called the 'grey zone' (people who did not support the régime but who did not openly come out against it).\n\n"}
{"id": "732713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732713", "title": "Teatro Olimpico", "text": "Teatro Olimpico\n\nThe Teatro Olimpico (\"Olympic Theatre\") is a theatre in Vicenza, northern Italy, constructed in 1580-1585. The theatre was the final design by the Italian Renaissance architect Andrea Palladio and was not completed until after his death. The trompe-l'œil onstage scenery, designed by Vincenzo Scamozzi, to give the appearance of long streets receding to a distant horizon, was installed in 1585 for the very first performance held in the theatre, and is the oldest surviving stage set still in existence. The full Roman-style \"scaenae frons\" back screen across the stage is made from wood and stucco imitating marble. It was the home of the Accademia Olimpica, which was founded there in 1555.\n\nThe Teatro Olimpico is, along with the Teatro all'antica in Sabbioneta and the Teatro Farnese in Parma, one of only three Renaissance theatres remaining in existence. Both these theatres were based, in large measure, on the Teatro Olimpico. It is still used several times a year.\n\nSince 1994, the Teatro Olimpico, together with other Palladian buildings in and around Vicenza, has been part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site City of Vicenza and the Palladian Villas of the Veneto.\n\nThe Teatro Olimpico is the last work by Palladio, and ranks amongst his highest masterworks. The Vicentine architect had returned to his native city in 1579, bringing with him a lifetime of detailed study into all aspects of Roman architecture, and a more detailed understanding of the architecture of classical theatre than any other living person. Palladio had illustrated Daniele Barbaro's Italian translation of Vitruvius' \"De architectura\"; the prints for this edition include floorplans for Roman theatres and an elevation for the \"scaenae frons\" of Vicenza's ruined Roman theatre, the \"Teatro Berga\". As well, Palladio's papers include plans for the imagined reconstruction of the ruined Roman theatres in Pola and Verona.\n\nPalladio, a founder of the Olympic Academy (the \"Accademia Olimpica\", created in 1555), had already designed temporary theatre structures at various locations in the city. The most notable of these had been erected some seventeen years previously in the great hall of the Basilica Palladiana.\n\nIn 1579 the Academy obtained the rights to build a permanent theatre in an old fortress, the \"Castello del Territorio,\" which had been turned into a prison and powder magazine before falling into disuse. Palladio was asked to produce a design, and despite the awkward shape of the old fortress, he decided to use the space to recreate an academic reconstruction of the Roman theatres that he had so closely studied. In order to fit a stage and seating area into the wide, shallow space, it was necessary for Palladio to flatten the semicircular seating area of the Roman theatre into an ellipse.\n\nPalladio died in August 1580, only six months after construction had started on the theatre. Despite this setback, construction continued, with Palladio's sketches and drawings serving as a guide, and Palladio's son, Silla, taking charge of the project. Soon, the other prominent Vicentine architect, Vincenzo Scamozzi, was called upon to complete the project.\n\nScamozzi had already stepped in to complete Palladio's other great unfinished project, the villa just east of Vicenza that is today known as \"La Rotonda\". It is a mark of Scamozzi's genius that both these projects are today regarded as being among Palladio's most successfully executed works.\n\nScamozzi's contributions include the \"Odèo\" and \"Antiodèo\" rooms, as well as the entrance archway which leads from the street, through an old medieval wall into the courtyard of the old fortress.\n\nIn order to make the archway fit with its surroundings, and to prepare visitors to the theatre for the transformation from medieval to classical surroundings, Scamozzi built the archway to be the same size and shape as the \"porta reggia\" or triumphal arch at the center of the \"scaenae frons\" or rear wall of the stage. However, the entrance archway was rusticated to make it fit with the rough and well-worn wall into which it was being inserted.\n\nHowever, Scamozzi's most famous and most original contribution to the theatre was his elaborate stage set, with its remarkable trompe l'œil street views. He not only designed the sets, but also put considerable effort into designing the lighting that permitted the make-believe houses of the stage scenery to be lit from within, completing the illusion that these were real streets.\n\nAside from a single sketch of the \"scaenae frons\", Palladio left no plans as to what kind of scenery should be used onstage. His illustration of an idealized Roman scaenae frons for Barbaro's edition of Vitruvius had shown perspective street views similar to those which would later be built in the Teatro Olimpico. But the sketch of the proposed scaenae frons for the Teatro Olimpico shows no such street scenes; the space behind the central archway and the doors to each side is blank.\n\nThe simplest explanation for the absence of any street scenes in this drawing is that the Academy had not yet obtained the land on which the scenery would later be built. This land was acquired in 1582, after Scamozzi had taken charge of the project. This made it possible to extend the building (including a special apse-shaped projection to accommodate the longest and most elaborate of the seven street views). The Academy's petition to the city government for the additional land anticipated that if acquired, the space would be used to create perspective scenery; it explains that the extra land would be used to build a theatre \"along the lines laid out by our colleague Palladio, who has designed it to permit perspective views.\"\n\nTherefore, Palladio can be given credit for having inspired the remarkable perspectives which are visible to the audience through the central archway of the scaenae frons (also known as the \"porta reggia\") and also through the smaller side openings. But it is also appropriate to regard Scamozzi as the technical genius behind their remarkably successful execution.\n\nScamozzi's stage set was the first practical introduction of perspective views into Renaissance theatre. The scenery consists of seven hallways decorated to create the illusion of looking down the streets of a city from classical antiquity. Ancient Thebes, was to be the setting for the first play staged in the theatre. A set of seven extraordinarily realistic \"trompe-l'œil\" false perspectives provide the illusion of long street views, while actually the sets recede only a few meters. The way in which seats in all parts of the theatre were provided with at least one perspective view can be seen by observing the theatre floorplan and following the sight lines of audience members in different parts of the theatre.\n\nThe theatre was inaugurated on March 3, 1585, with a production of Sophocles' \"Oedipus Rex\". However, the theatre was virtually abandoned after only a few productions. The scenes, which had been created in wood and stucco for \"Oedipus Rex\", and which were meant to represent the streets of Thebes, were never removed: despite bombings and other vicissitudes, they have miraculously preserved into modern times. The original lighting system of glass oil lamps, designed by Scamozzi, heightened the illusion of space, has been used only a few times because of the high cost and the risk of fire. Scamozzi's lighting system was used when, in 1997, the theatre was again employed for a production of \"Oedipus Rex\".\n\nThe Teatro Olimpico is still used for plays and musical performances, but audience sizes are limited to 400, for conservation reasons. Performances take place in two theatre seasonsclassical plays in the autumn and the festival \"Il Suono dell'Olimpico\" in the spring. It is not equipped with heating or air conditioning, which could damage the delicate wooden structures.\n\nThe Theatre has been used as a filming location for films such as \"Don Giovanni\" (1979) and \"Casanova\" (2005).\n\nSome authors have incorrectly stated that when the Teatro Olimpico was constructed in 1580-1585, it was the first purpose-built theatre in Europe in over a thousand years. In reality, the theatre was one of a number of new permanent theatres being constructed at the time. Records show that permanent theatres were constructed in Ferrara (1531), Rome (1545), Mantua (1549), Bologna (1550), Siena (1561), and Venice (1565). This last theatre was designed by Palladio himself, for the Compagnia della Calza.\n\nOver the centuries, the Teatro Olimpico has had many admirers, but relatively few imitators. One critic has observed, \"In the history of theatre design, the Teatro Olimpico was a temporary hiatus, for succeeding generations adopted the proscenium arch and painterly stage sets. Palladio's ideas are closer to the spirit of the modern theatre, which favors the relationship of audience to action.\" Another notes, \"The rigid form of the scenic arrangements of the Teatro Olimpico...precluded any further development,\" and that the theatre was, in a sense, a prisoner of its creators' emphasis on \"considerations of archaeology\" and truthfulness to the Roman model. The successful completion of Palladio's experiment in reconstructing the ancient model meant that there was no longer any need to pursue the objective of recovering the Roman past; it was now possible to start making innovations, starting with eliminating the rigid and unchangeable scaenae frons and the unchanging perspective views.\n\nThe first theatre to draw inspiration from the Teatro Olimpico, and the one in which its influence is the most obvious, is the Teatro all'antica in Sabbioneta. This theatre, which was designed by Vincenzo Scamozzi, is sometimes also referred to, somewhat confusingly, as the \"Teatro Olimpico\", and some of its design elements, including most notably the colonnade behind the seating area and the self-conscious references to ancient Rome, are clearly drawn from the original Teatro Olimpico. However, the elaborate scaenae frons is absent in Sabbioneta, and only a single perspective view, along a single street, is employed onstage. As well, the seating area departs radically from Palladio's elliptical plan (perhaps as a result of the much narrower shape of the building in which the theatre is housed).\n\nThe English architect Inigo Jones visited the Teatro Olimpico shortly after its completion, and took careful notes, in which he expressed particular admiration for the perspective views: \"[T]he chief artifice was that whear so ever you sat you saw one of thes Prospects...\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19055520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19055520", "title": "Timpanogos Storytelling Festival", "text": "Timpanogos Storytelling Festival\n\nThe Timpanogos Storytelling Festival takes place Labor Day weekend at the end of each summer in Lehi, Utah. The festival draws a combined attendance of about 26,000 people each year, making it the largest storytelling festival in the western United States. The festival typically lasts two days and invites professional storytellers from throughout the United States. Some of the nation's best known storytellers unite with other tellers, both young and old, for two all-day celebrations of music, merriment, but mostly stories. In addition to daytime performances on Friday and Saturday, there are typically themed public performances in the evenings, such as \"Look Who's Talking, \"Bedtime Stories,\" \"My Favorite Stories\" and \"Laughin' Night.\" Before the main Festival begins, attendees may also attend storytelling workshops held on Thursday, given by some of the featured storytellers.\nThe Idea-In 1989, Karen Ashton, President of the Friends of the Orem Public Library, was looking for projects to promote community involvement in the Library. Mrs. Ashton had been volunteering at the Library for years, presenting Storytime for preschoolers and helping with other Children's Library programs. When she saw an advertisement for a National Storytelling Festival in Tennessee, she decided to attend and gather more ideas for stories and programs for the Orem Library.\n\nShe went to the National Festival expecting to find ladies telling stories to children in a library. Instead she found thousands of adults crowding into tents, listening to dynamic performers relating tales of history, culture, folk and family life, as well as magical stories of “what if . . .!” The entire town of Jonesborough (population 3,000) had mobilized to accommodate the 10,000+ people who annually attend the three-day festival.\n\nMrs. Ashton recognized in the storytelling festival the idea she was searching for. A festival brings people together and increases understanding by allowing them to communicate through stories. It fosters the simple, old community and family values—family members and neighbors talking with each other again, sharing family history and experiences. A storytelling festival is an active experience, not passive entertainment. \n\nThe Beginning-The Friends launched the first Timpanogos Storytelling Festival just eight months after Mrs. Ashton presented the idea. The Ashton family opened their home to the community, set up performance areas on their property, and persuaded neighbors to do the same. Livestock was moved, fields mowed, and tents raised. Three Eastern storytellers of national fame and local talent including James Arrington, Marvin Payne, and Gaye Beeson performed for two incredible days.\n\nNews of the Festival spread rapidly. By the second year the Friends had expanded the hours of the Festival, planned an additional evening performance at , borrowed another field for a fourth performance tent, and invited school groups to the Friday morning performances. Five of the best storytellers in the nation were on the program, and auditions had been held to determine the successful regional tellers. Acoustic musicians performed during the intermissions throughout the day, supplementing performances by storytellers on the fiddle, banjo, harmonica, and spoons.\n\nNow-The Timpanogos Storytelling Festival has grown each year—in both audience size and prestige. Attendance at annual Festival events total 26,000 and the Festival is recognized throughout the national storytelling world as a standard setter. The Festival and its organizers have received national media attention and awards. Storytelling event organizers from around the nation attend the Timpanogos Festival for training. The Timpanogos Storytelling Festival has garnered this reputation not only because of the great talent featured, but also because of the scenic setting, the terrific audience, the extraordinary community support, and its excellence in organization.\n\nIn 1999, the National Storytelling Network honored Karen Ashton with the Leadership Award in recognition of her exemplary leadership and significant contributions to the community through storytelling. In the same year, the Utah Storytelling Guild (spawned by the Festival and now supporting the Festival) received the National Storytelling Network Service Award. Janet Low, Festival Coordinator, was awarded the Service Award in 2000 and Debi Richan, Festival Vice-President, received this national award in 2004. \n\nThe Festival draws individuals and groups from across the nation and Canada. The Utah Valley Visitors Center provides material on attractions and accommodations in Utah County to ticket-buyers living outside of Utah and Salt Lake Counties. Families spend vacations in Utah, planned around the Timpanogos Festival. The reputation of the area has spread—even the national storytellers bring their families to spend additional time enjoying the scenery and attractions of Utah County. \n\nIn 2005, the Festival opened at the new Mt. Timpanogos Park in Provo Canyon. Designed by the City of Orem for the annual Festival, the park allows Festival growth to continue with more and larger performance tents. \n\nIn 2017 The Festival moved locations to Thanksgiving Point's Ashton Gardens. \n\nThe Timpanogos Festival is not a small event. It requires significant donations from businesses and foundations and thousands of volunteer hours from individuals and community groups such as the American Legion, Kiwanis, Golden Kiwanis, youth groups, student clubs, the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts, and the Utah Storytelling Guild. \n\nConsidering all the work involved with organizing an annual Festival, Karen Ashton commented, \"If just one family leaves the Festival and begins to share stories with each other, it will be worth it.\"\n"}
{"id": "2068830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2068830", "title": "Vreme", "text": "Vreme\n\nVreme (Serbian for \"Time\") is a weekly news magazine based in Belgrade, Serbia.\n\nIn 1990, dissatisfied with the media climate in SR Serbia, SFR Yugoslavia's largest constituent unit, a group of liberal Serbian intellectuals, including prominent lawyer Srđa Popović, decided to start a weekly newsmagazine. Following a seven-month preparation throughout the year, \"Vreme\" was launched with its first issue coming out on 29 October 1990, little over a month before the 1990 general election in SR Serbia as the entire country of SFR Yugoslavia was transforming its governance from a one-party system under the Yugoslav Communist League (SKJ) to a multi-party one.\n\nMost \"Vreme\"'s original staff were journalists from \"Politika\" and \"NIN\". It characterizes itself as \"a magazine without lies, hatred, or prejudice\" and has opposed nationalistic mobilization for the Yugoslav wars. It is modeled after its U.S. counterparts \"Time\" and \"Newsweek\".\n\nIn 1993, 30,000 copies were produced weekly with a quarter of its sales abroad. \"Vreme\" has established a reputation as one of the most reliable media sources of the former Yugoslavia and its writers have been largely cited by international media.\n\n\"Vreme\" has started a number of supplements such as \"Vreme novca\" (Time of Money), \"Vreme zabave\" (Time for Fun), and has become a publishing house. The newspaper has an international edition called \"Vreme International\", which is mainly targeted at the Serbian diaspora in Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35294687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35294687", "title": "Westchester Interfaith/Interagency Network for Disaster and Emergency Recovery", "text": "Westchester Interfaith/Interagency Network for Disaster and Emergency Recovery\n\nWestchester Interfaith/Interagency Network for Disaster and Emergency Recovery (WINDER) was founded in June 2007 in response to local flooding in Mamaroneck, NY from the April 2007 nor'easter in order to coordinate long-term community and faith-based organizational assistance in response to local disasters as well as better prepare the community for future disasters. WINDER was a non-profit coalition of about a dozen local churches, community groups and charitable organizations. It focused on helping the elderly or the disabled victims who were awaiting FEMA assistance as well as those who needed physical assistance with basement cleanups. In June 2007, WINDER received a $20,000 grant from Episcopal Relief and Development, and along with private donations, enabled WINDER to aid the nearly four dozen cases it handled as well as to hire a part-time assistant that would answer its telephone hotline.\n\nIt was led by Board President and founder, Deborah G. Tammearu, the reverend of Saint Thomas Episcopal Church in Mamaroneck, as well as a member of the Episcopal Diocese of New York Disaster Response Team. Also on the board is Dave Currie of the United Way. Following the complete recovery from the flooding WINDER ceased to operate.\n"}
{"id": "55608121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55608121", "title": "Wildlife Conservation Film Festival", "text": "Wildlife Conservation Film Festival\n\nWildlife Conservation Film Festival (WCFF) is an international film festival based in New York, that promotes and produces interactive events around independent films that promote sustainability and the conservation of biodiversity.\n\nThe Wildlife Conservation Film Festival was founded in 2010 by Christopher J. Gervais as a 2 day event and has now grown to a 10 day festival. It is a juried event and \nattendees and participants are international wildlife conservationists, filmmakers, photographers, scientists and people across the globe that work toward the preservation of global biodiversity. It has grown into a educational conference in which attendees are informed and inspired. In 2016 WCFF announced that DDB Worldwide (New York) will be partnering with them on a pro bono basis in order to further their exposure.\n\n"}
{"id": "26321505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26321505", "title": "Xu (state)", "text": "Xu (state)\n\nThe State of Xu () (also called Xu Rong (徐戎) or Xu Yi (徐夷) by its enemies) was an independent Huaiyi state of the Chinese Bronze Age that was ruled by the Ying family (嬴) and controlled much of the Huai River valley for at least two centuries. With its capital at Xizhou and its ritual center at Pizhou, Xu's heartland was northern Anhui, northwestern Jiangsu, and the Lower Huai River valley.\n\nAn ancient but originally minor state that already existed during the late Shang dynasty, Xu was subjugated by the Western Zhou dynasty around 1039 BC, and was gradually sinified from then on. It eventually regained its independence and formed a confederation of 36 states that became powerful enough to challenge the Zhou empire for supremacy over the Central Plain. Able to consolidate its rule over a territory that stretched from Hubei in the south, through eastern Henan, northern Anhui and Jiangsu, as far north as southern Shandong, Xu's confederation remained a major power until the early Spring and Autumn period. It reached its apogee in the mid 8th century BC, expanding its influence as far as Zhejiang in the south. By that time, however, Xu's confederation began to break up as result of internal unrest. As its power waned, Xu was increasingly threatened by neighboring states, losing control over the Huai River to Chu. Reduced to its heartland, Xu was eventually conquered by Wu in 512 BC.\n\nAccording to the \"Rongcheng Shi\" bamboo slips from the Warring States period, the \"Yu Gong\" from the Han dynasty and various other sources, Yu the Great divided the world into the Nine Provinces in prehistoric times, one of them Xu. The \"Yuanhe Xingzuan\", a Tang dynasty compilation of information on the origins of Chinese surnames, as well as the \"Tongzhi\", a Southern Song dynasty historical book, also state that Yu enfeoffed Ruomu, grandson of the mythological emperor Zhuanxu, as lord of Xu around 2100 BC. In turn the Xu peoples were supposed to be Ruomu's descendants. Furthermore, it was claimed this Xu state or province had originally occupied the entire area between the Huai and Yellow River. No contemporary evidence exists to verify this information and the oldest literary sources available, the oracle bones of the Shang dynasty, do not mention such an empire. As result, the stories of Xu's foundation remain legendary.\n\nNevertheless, archaeological excavations have proven that the area around modern-day Xuzhou, including the later heartland of Xu, was a major trading hub and cultural centre for the Yangshao, Dawenkou and Longshan cultures since the 3rd millennium BC. Oracle bones and later historical records both indicate that the Xuzhou area was occupied by the indigenous Dapeng kingdom since the middle Shang dynasty. A powerful polity, Dapeng was eventually destroyed by the Shang under King Di Xin. In turn, Xu's existence is first reliably reported by the \"Yi Zhou Shu\" for 1042 BC, only a few decades after Dapeng's fall. It remains unknown if these two polities were related in any way.\n\nAt the time of its first recorded appearance, Xu was already a powerful Yi state that was probably located in southeastern Shandong or northwestern Jiangsu. Besides this state, a number of small Xu enclaves existed in western Shandong. Like the Dongyi states at Pugu and Yan, Xu participated in the Rebellion of the Three Guards against the Duke of Zhou, although it had no known direct relation to the three competing parties. Ralph D. Sawyer speculates that Xu joined the rebels because it did not wanted to alienate its neighboring states that had co-founded the rebel alliance. The rebels eventually lost the war, and as result the Huai River valley was invaded and subjugated by the Zhou royal army in 1039 BC. To what extent Xu was also defeated during that campaign remains unclear; reports in the \"Zuo Zhuan\" and the \"Bamboo Annals\" make it likely that Xu forces continued to resist the implementation of Zhou power in southeastern Shandong. After the foundation of Lu, Xu and other Huaiyi statelets reportedly attacked the new Zhou state until Bo Qin defeated them. Afterwards, the Xu state appears to have been largely pacified and became a vassal of the Zhou dynasty. In this position, it was strongly influenced by the Zhou culture and also served as link to the dynasty's southernmost ally, Wu. Despite that, Xu remained somewhat defiant, and moved its core area further south into northern Anhui in order to escape the constant pressure from the Zhou dynasty in the north. The Xu enclaves in western Shandong even continued to openly resist, but most of them were destroyed by Lu and Song over time.\n\nAfter its subjugation, the state of Xu was forced to remain a vassal of the Zhou dynasty for almost one hundred years. The turning point came in the mid 10th century BC: Around 957 BC, the Zhou dynasty lost a disastrous war against Chu. This defeat appears to have thrown the dynasty into chaos. Based on archaeological findings, Edward L. Shaughnessy even speculates that the Zhou dynasty was so weakened that it largely retreated to its capital area, leaving most of its empire to fend for itself. Building upon this theory, Manfred Frühauf believes that the Huaiyi, among them Xu, regained their independence as consequence of this general Zhou retreat. Regardless of whether this was the case, by 944 BC, Xu and the Huaiyi had definitely regained their independence, as Lord Yan of Xu managed to unite thirty-six Dongyi and Huaiyi states under his leadership, declared himself king and proceeded to invade the Zhou empire. The reasons for this invasion are unknown, but Frühauf speculates that it was a preventive strike to prevent the Zhou from restoring their domination over the Huaiyi, while Sawyer considers it possible that the Xu either wanted to plunder the Zhou royal domain or aimed to supplant the Zhou rule and establish their own dynasty. The course and scale of the invasion are equally controversial, based on different interpretations of bronze inscriptions and historical texts. It is even disputed if there was just one or two invasions. Generally agreed, however, is the result of the attacks: Even though the Zhou forces had eventually succeeded in driving the invaders back, they could not subjugate the Huaiyi again and were forced to acknowledge their independence in a peace treaty. If records in the \"Book of the Later Han\", probably based upon early texts of the \"Bamboo Annals\", are to believed, Xu was particularly strengthened by the war. Recognizing that he could not defeat the Huaiyi, King Mu of Zhou recognized King Yan of Xu as overlord over a large confederation that covered most of the Huai River valley and regions south of it. As result, Xu became the new major power of the east and a serious political rival to the Zhou dynasty. The \"Zuo Zhuan\" suggests that this confederation also included the remaining Xu enclaves in western Shandong. In the course of its political ascent, Xu's cultural influence began to spread as far as the Yangtze delta region.\n\nXu maintained its dominance over the southeast after King Mu's death, while the armistice proved inadequate to ensure peace. The military contest between the Huaiyi and Zhou kingdom never really stopped, and even though the latter increasingly suffered from internal disorder and even chaos, it remained a formidable adversary for Xu's confederation. King Li of Zhou (857-842/28) led several campaigns against the states of the Huai River, such as Jiao and Yu. In turn, the Huaiyi confederation under Xu began a massive counter offensive in 850 BC, aiming to conquer the North China Plain and to destroy the Zhou rule over the East. Allied with Ehou, rebellious ruler of E, and the Dongyi states, the Huaiyi brought the Zhou dynasty to the brink of destruction. Their forces even reached the Luo and Yi River valleys, threatening or even plundering the dynasty's royal domain. Eventually, however, the anti-Zhou alliance collapsed after the destruction of E by Zhou loyalists, and Xu was driven back.\n\nWar was renewed under King Xuan of Zhou, who aimed to restabilize and restore the Zhou kingdom. Enlisting the military aid of several loyalist states of Shandong, he launched a massive campaign against the Xu-led Huaiyi coalition in 822 BC, eventually claiming to have won a great victory. The \"Classic of Poetry\" even boasted:\n<poem>\nThe region of Hsü [Xu] is shaken without interruption, \nit trembles in terror, the region of Hsü\nas before the rolling and the bursts of thunder,\nthe region of Hsü trembles for terror!\n</poem>\nNotwithstanding these claims, Xuan's expedition probably did not result in a total victory, as Xu does not appear to have been severely weakened during this period. It is more likely that the war ended with a minor Zhou victory or a peace treaty, with tributes sent by the Huaiyi to King Xuan for his remaining reign. According to the \"Yu Gong\", Xu sent pheasant plumes and sounding stones as regular tributes.\n\nDespite Xuan's restoration attempts, the Zhou dynasty's royal power largely collapsed in 771 BC, ushering into the Spring and Autumn period. Initially, Xu not only retained its power during this new era of warfare and chaos, but probably further expanded into the south. Xu bronzes from the early Spring and Autumn period were found in southern Jiangsu and northern Zhejiang, indicating the state's influence in or possibly even control over these regions. Around this time, however, Xu also began to suffer from serious internal unrest, resulting in the gradual disintegration of its confederation. Several polities seceded: The Xu enclaves of western Shandong aligned themselves with the state of Lu in 720 BC, the Shu peoples formed independent states, the state of Zhoulai occupied the middle Huai River valley, and even a part of ruling Ying family broke off to form their own state, Zhongli. Nevertheless, all of these groups remained under Xu's influence to varying degrees. The Xu rulers had also adopted the \"zǐ\" title (子) for themselves by this time, thereby integrating themselves into the recognized Zhou system. While seen as inferior barbarian title by Zhou states, the Xu rulers took \"zǐ\" as synonymous with \"king\".\n\nDespite its confederation's end, the Xu kingdom still held considerable power, so that the dukes Yin and Huan of Lu tried to remain \"on good terms with [the Xu peoples]\". Their successor, Duke Zhuang of Lu, on the other side, considered the remaining Xu tribes of Shandong a threat and started a war to eliminate them. By that time, the only remaining northern Xu enclave of any significance was centered at Caozhou, holding the local marshes from where the Chi River originated. According to the \"Zuo Zhuan\", the continued raiding activities of the Caozhou-Xu were responsible for the war. Duke Zhuang was able to gain the military assistance of Song, Zheng, and, most importantly, the powerful state of Qi. On the other side, the Xu of Shandong allied with the Xu kingdom. Qi first attacked the Xu of Shandong in 674 BC, but failed to subdue them. In 668, the Qi-led coalition launched not only another assault on Caozhou, but also invaded Xu's territory in the Huai River valley. While the latter state remained undefeated, the Caozhou-Xu were destroyed, and with them, the last remnants of Xu rule in Shandong.\n\nBeginning in 655 BC, the state of Chu began to expand into the Huai River valley, causing several local Huaiyi polities such as the Shu states to ally with it in order to profit from its military assistance. In response to this aggressive expansion into its heartland, the Xu kingdom began to cooperate with Chu's northern enemies, and occupied one of the now-hostile Shu states in 656 BC. Chu retaliated in 645 BC, and launched an invasion of Xu. Duke Huan of Qi, hegemon of China at that time, organised an alliance of Qi, Lu, Song, Chen, Wey, Zheng, Cao, and Xǔ to aid Xu. They sent an expedition to relieve the small kingdom, but the anti-Chu alliance was decisively defeated during the Battle of Loulin. While it was not destroyed and continued to fight for its independence, Xu was severely weakened, marking the beginning of its final decline.\n\nWith Xu's decline, other states of the Huai River began to grow in power. In its direct vicinity, the state of Zhongli grew into \"one of the most important regional states of the [river's] middle reaches\". Sometime between 644 and 600 BC, its ruler, Lord Bai, defeated Xu in battle. In 643 BC, Xu and its ally Qi invaded Yingshi in Lu'an, a vassal state of Chu. According to Zuo Qiuming, \"this expedition was undertaken by Qi in the interest of Xu, to avenge (...) the defeat of Xu by Chu at Loulin\". After 622 BC, Chu forced the remaining states along the middle Huai River into vassalage, destroying any of them that continued open resistance. It also concluded a pact with Wu and Yue, \"which kept them from wooing the Shu states for a quarter century\". As result, Chu became the unchallenged ruler of most of the Huai River valley, so that Xu increasingly fell under Chu's influence as well. Despite this, the extremely weakened kingdom continued to conspire with other states against Chu. In 620 BC, Xu undertook a campaign against Ju in Shandong.\n\nChu's dominance over the Huai River valley was broken in 584 BC, when Wu launched a large-scale western offensive, during which Xu was also attacked by Wu forces. From then on, Wu and Chu constantly fought each other for supremacy over the Huai River valley, while nearly nothing is recorded of Xu for this period.\n\nSince 542 BC, Xu became inclined to side against Chu with Wu in order to regain its full independence, with King Yichu marrying a Wu princess. This new alliance resulted in grave consequences for Xu in 539 BC. In that year, King Ling of Chu called for meeting of the states at the former capital of Shen, wanting them to accept him as new hegemon of China. Although hostile to Chu, Xu's ruler was obliged to be present at the meeting as he feared a possible retaliation. At Shen, however, Chu's ruler had Yichu seized because of his close connections to Wu. He then compelled Xu to participate in an invasion of Wu in 537 BC. One year later, King Yichu escaped and returned to his capital. King Ling of Chu, fearing that Xu would revolt, promptly invaded the small kingdom. Wu came to Xu's aid, however, and defeated Chu's army. Afterwards, Xu openly aligned itself with Wu.\n\nIn winter 530 BC, King Ling of Chu led another army to besiege and conquer Xu's capital in order to prepare an invasion of Wu. The siege lasted until the next summer, when Zi'ao launched a coup at Ying and took control of Chu's government. King Ling`s army then almost completely deserted him, while the remaining loyal troops broke off the siege of Xu and began to retreat to Chu, only to be overwhelmed and destroyed by an army of Wu at Yuzhang.\n\nIn 526 BC, Duke Jing of Qi wanted to restore Qi's old hegemony, and launched an invasion of Xu. Instead of resisting, Xu's ruler simply submitted and paid tribute to the duke, so that the latter returned to Qi without any fighting. Zuo Qiuming believed this to be a sign of the small states' increasing weakness, as they no longer had a leader among them capable of resisting invaders who were \"devoid of principle\".\n\nEventually, Xu became involved in a succession dispute of Wu in 515 BC, when it sheltered Prince Yanyu from his nephew, King Helü of Wu. Three years later, Helü ordered Xu to hand the fugitive over, but King Zhangyu of Xu sympathized with Yanyu and let him go. Yanyu then fled to the state of Chu, which agreed to help him. Enraged about the course of events, Helü invaded Xu. Aided by the famous military strategist Sun Tzu, Helü ordered his troops to raise \"embankments on the hills so as to lay the [kingdom's] capital under water\". Although Chu sent an army to relieve Xu, the situation in the besieged city became unbearable, so that Zhangyu went forth with his wife to personally surrender to King Helü. Hereby, Xu was extinguished.\n\nAfter Xu's fall, Zhangyu, his family and his most loyal officers were allowed to go into exile to Chu. On the way, they met Chu's army and were escorted to the city of Yi, where Zhangyu took residence. Despite its end, Xu continued to \"exert a major influence in the region\", especially since exiles from the fallen state settled in a large area. Bronze artifacts inscribed by Xu donors were found at sites associated with both Yue and Wu, but some were even found at Jing'an in northwestern Jiangxi, an area commonly considered a \"virtual no-man's land inhabited by unassimilated populations\".\n\nThose found at Wu sites and dated to the time after Xu's destruction were probably war booty, trading goods or \"tokens of political or marriage alliance\". The Xu bronzes from Shaoxing in the Yue kingdom, however, can reliably identified with exiles. Its donor, Yin, had been the \"yaoyin\" (official in charge of sacrifice) of Xu, and stated on one \"ding\" his ambitions to restore his home state. An inscription on a halberd of a king of Yue is even interpreted by some scholars as \"to aid the Xu state\", in which case the Yue government itself desired the restoration of Xu. This interpretation is, however, strongly disputed, with many scholars such as Peng Yushang reading the words as the name of the king.\n\nWhile contemporary and later written records generally considered the people of Xu to be part of the \"Huaiyi\" or \"barbarians of the Huai River\", it remains unclear if the Huaiyi were defined on their political opposition to the Zhou dynasty or a shared culture and common ethnicity. Nevertheless, several sinologists, such as Donald B. Wagner, Constance A. Cook, and Barry B. Blakeley consider it likely that the Huaiyi were a specific people, distinct from other groups such as the Dongyi of Shandong and the Nanyi of the middle Yangtze. Archaeological excavations seem to corroborate this assumption, as they indicate that the Xu peoples had a distinct indigenous culture which had evolved from local Neolithic origins. As part of the Huaiyi, the Xu peoples were part of a highly developed bronze culture. In fact, the Huaiyi appeared as users of bronze and copper who produced metal weapons, vessels and bells since they were first attested by Zhou sources in the eleventh century BC.\n\nXu is also commonly associated with the larger Wu-Yue cultural area, on which it exerted a great influence. In this position it acted as an intermediary for the northern Zhou culture, but also conveyed its own distinct techniques and ideas to the Yangtze delta region.\n\nAs the people of Xu were not of Shang or Zhou origin, they probably spoke their own language, which might have been related to the largely unknown Yue languages to the south. Nevertheless, the Xu elites were well versed in Old Chinese, the \"lingua franca\" of the time, using it to inscribe their bronze vessels. Besides Old Chinese script, the bird seal script was also used. This script was very popular in southeastern China and had evolved from the seal script of the Shang dynasty. Still not completely deciphered, it remains unclear if it was a full-fledged writing system or had a more symbolic purpose. Erica Fox Brindley speculates, however, that regardless of the script texts were only written in Old Chinese.\n\nXu is represented with the star Theta Serpentis in asterism \"Left Wall\", Heavenly Market enclosure (see Chinese constellation).\n\n"}
{"id": "1730808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1730808", "title": "Ye (Hebei)", "text": "Ye (Hebei)\n\nYe or Yecheng () was an ancient Chinese city located in what is now Linzhang County, Handan, Hebei province and neighbouring Anyang, Henan province.\n\nYe was first built in the Spring and Autumn period by Duke Huan of Qi, and by the time of the Warring States period the city belonged to the state of Wei. Ye was a political and economic center of China during the Three Kingdoms Period and Northern Dynasties. It served as the military headquarters of the warlords Yuan Shao and Cao Cao in the last years of the Eastern Han Dynasty.\n\nShi Le made Ye the capital of his Later Zhao dynasty of the fourth century.\n\nIn the 490s, Emperor Xiaowen of Northern Wei moved his capital from Pingcheng (平城, in modern Datong, Shanxi) to Luoyang. This move was not welcomed by all. Antagonism grew between Xiaowen and his sinicized court and those who preferred to cling to the traditional Tuoba tribal ways, and it only increased with further changes calling for the abandonment of Tuoba dress and names. Eventually, under the leadership of Gao Huan (a Chinese general who was Tuoba in his ways and \"outlook\"), the sinicization-dissenting 'northern garrisons' mutinied and captured Luoyang in 534. \"At three days' notice its inhabitants were required to accompany Gao Huan to his own base, the city of Ye...where he declared himself the first Eastern Wei emperor.\" \"During most of the sixth century Ho-pei [Hebei] [was] the heart of an independent state with its capital at Yeh [Ye]...\" It remained the capital of the Eastern Wei dynasty and the Northern Qi Dynasty until it was razed to the ground in 580, after Yang Jian, founder of the Sui Dynasty, defeated a resistance force led by Yuchi Jiong, which used Ye as a base of operations.\n\nSome scholars, such as Ku Chi-kuang believed that Hebei and the region continued to harbour separatist sympathies into the Tang Dynasty; it was the region from which An Lushan launched his rebellion during the reign of the Tang Emperor Xuanzong.\n\nExtensive excavations of the city have been made in recent years, allowing Chinese historians to make detailed plans of the site. In 2012, archaeologists unearthed nearly 3,000 Buddha statues during a dig outside Ye. Most of the statues are made of white marble and limestone, and could date back to the Eastern Wei and Northern Qi dynasties (534-577 CE).\n\nA community of merchant Sogdians resided in Northern Qi era Ye.\n"}
