{"id": "24702826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24702826", "title": ".detuned", "text": ".detuned\n\n.detuned is a demoscene project by the German demogroup .theprodukkt (also known as Farbrausch), released on the PlayStation 3. It was initially released on September 20, 2009 in Japan, and on October 15 in Europe and North America. It is the second demo released on the PlayStation 3 after \"Linger in Shadows\".\n\n\".detuned\" features a man sitting in a chair surrounded by a psychedelic environment. The player can switch into various modes, and using the trigger buttons and right analogue stick, apply certain effects on the man, which e.g. make his head shrink or apply a post-processing filter on the visuals and music. The player is also able to load their own music in.\n\nIGN cited the lack of lasting appeal as the biggest problem about \".detuned\", saying that \"selling for $2.99 in the US PlayStation Store, that's about a dollar per minute of entertainment\". Overall they awarded the game a 4/10, with a 1/10 on Lasting Appeal.\n\n"}
{"id": "224753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224753", "title": "13th century in literature", "text": "13th century in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in the 13th century.\n\n\"See also:\" 13th century in poetry, 12th century in literature, 14th century in literature, list of years in literature.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50441861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50441861", "title": "ALTO (film)", "text": "ALTO (film)\n\nAlto is a 2015 American-Italian \"lesbian\" mob comedy film directed by Mikki del Monico. It stars Diana DeGarmo and Natalie Knepp as two Italian-American girls who develop an unlikely friendship considering one is a mob boss's daughter and the other is a singer in a band. Nicolette develops feelings for Frankie but all Frankie can do is run away from her emotions. The film is light hearted while showing the struggles of coming out to the family.\n\n\"Alto's\" main character Frankie is an Italian American pursuing her singer-songwriter career with her band while balancing her relationship with a guy whose dream is to start a frozen food label. Frankie's life becomes interesting when she discovers a dead body in her rental car and turns it over to the police. Frankie lives with her sister Heather who is obsessed with the mob lifestyle. Heather convinces Frankie to go with her to the real life mob boss's funeral. At the funeral Frankie meets Nicolette a charming, confident, beautiful woman who, unbeknownst to Frankie, is the new mob boss's daughter. Heather invites Nicolette to come to watch Frankie perform. Nicolette wants to help Frankie and her band make it big by getting her to perform on the hit TV show \"Mob Hit\". Nicolette and Frankie begin to spend more time together. Nicolette is into Frankie but Frankie is trying to process what kind of feelings she has for Nicolette while being engaged to her longtime boyfriend. Meanwhile, a whole plot is slowly being uncovered on who tried to take out Nicolette's father and suspicions turn toward Frankie because she unknowingly knows people who are in the mob. Eventually it is revealed that Frankie's own father is a book keeper for the mob boss, leaving Frankie feeling betrayed. However, Frankie is cleared of her association, and Nicolette and Frankie's romance is noticed by their families and Frankie's fiancé. At the end of the movie Frankie calls off her engagement to pursue her feelings for Nicolette and both women slowly try to gain the support of their parents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25658231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25658231", "title": "Aesthetic atrophy", "text": "Aesthetic atrophy\n\nAesthetic atrophy is the diminished capacity to appreciate new or unfamiliar music or other sensory stimuli. It is typically accompanied by the sufferer's retreat to familiar and comfortable works.\n"}
{"id": "4859822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4859822", "title": "Afif-Abad Garden", "text": "Afif-Abad Garden\n\nAfif-Abad Garden (), originally the Gulshan Garden (), is a museum complex in Shiraz, Iran.\n\nLocated in the affluent Afif-Abad district of Shiraz, the complex was constructed in 1863. It contains a former royal mansion, a historical weapons museum, and a Persian garden, all open to the public.\n\nThe Gulshan Garden is one of the oldest gardens in Shiraz.\n\nDuring the Safavid dynasty, it was used as a palace by the Safavid Kings.\n\nThe current main building was constructed by Mirza Ali Mohammad Khan Qavam II in 1863. He bought a nearby qanat to water his garden. After his death, the garden was eventually inherited by his niece, Afife; thus being called \"Afif-Abad\".\n\nIn 1962, it was restored by the army. It now functions as a weapons museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "10623089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10623089", "title": "American Society of Interior Designers", "text": "American Society of Interior Designers\n\nThe first national interior designers association was called the American Institute of Decorators (AID), founded in 1931. It was later named the American Institute of Interior Designers (AID). It is the oldest professional association for interior designers. In 1975 (AID) and the National Society of Interior Designers (NSID) merged to become the American Society of Interior Designers (ASID). Its more than 40,000 members engage in a variety of professional programs and activities through a network of 48 chapters throughout the United States and Canada.\n\nFounded in 1975 with the consolidation of the American Institute of Decorators (AID) and the National Society of Interior Designers (NSID), the American Society of Interior Designers is the largest professional organization for interior designers. Of the Society's 20,000 practicing interior designers, 6,500 practice primarily in the commercial field with 4,000 practicing primarily as residential designers. The remaining 9,500 work in both commercial and residential design. ASID Industry Partners include more than 2,500 member firms with more than 6,000 individual representatives, uniting the professional designer with manufacturers of design-related products and services.\n\nThe Society's membership also includes more than 12,000 students of interior design. ASID has Student chapters at colleges, universities and design schools with 2-year and 4-year programs throughout the U.S. and \"virtual\" chapters, such as Rhodec International.\n\nMembers are qualified by education, experience and examination, and adhere to a strict code of ethics and professional conduct. Through educational programs, research and conferences, ASID members receive the most current information on developments in design, as well as appropriate materials, technology, building codes, government regulations, flammability standards, sustainable and green design, product performance, design psychology, occupant populations, and more. ASID also supports legislative and advocacy efforts to protect interior designers’ right to practice.\n\nASID designers practice in all areas of interior design, including:\n\nASID has six membership categories\n\nProfessional Membership: the highest level of ASID membership. They have completed a course of accredited education and equivalent work experience in interior design and have successfully passed the National Council for Interior Design Qualification (NCIDQ) examination.\n\nAllied Membership: Eligible individuals are practicing interior designers who have completed 40 semester or 60 quarter credit hours in interior design education from an accredited institution (university, college or technical school). Continuing education coursework/hours do not count toward meeting the education requirement for membership.\n\nEducator Membership: This level is for educators who are actively engaged as department chairs or full-time instructors in a post-secondary program of interior design education at any university or accredited school of interior design that requires completion of 40 semester credit hours in interior design-related courses. Eligible educators receive a discounted dues rate as allied or professional members, depending on their qualifications.\n\nStudent Advancement Membership:\n\nStudent Members: Student members prepare for their career by joining the ASID network. Membership is available to students currently enrolled in an interior design program of at least 40 credit hours or 60 quarter credit hours of interior design coursework to graduate.\n\nIndustry Partner Membership: Industry Partners join ASID to gain access to the designer and student community. Members include interior design industry manufacturers and their representatives, related trade associations and market centers.\n\nAll ASID members have the opportunity to be involved with a local chapter.\n\n\n\n\nASID revised their legislative policy in January 2009. The policy was revised to best serve the societies membership and goals. The legislative policy of the organization is as follows:\n\nASID has embraced two platform issues: sustainable design and designing for an aging population.\n\nCreated in 1975 and now known as the ASID Foundation, the Foundation is the affiliated 501 (c)(3) charitable organization for ASID. The ASID Foundation’s mission is to support endeavors that capture and disseminate knowledge, encourage innovation, and benefit the health, safety and welfare of the public through interior design research, scholarship and education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18935020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935020", "title": "Appropriation (art)", "text": "Appropriation (art)\n\nAppropriation in art is the use of pre-existing objects or images with little or no transformation applied to them. The use of appropriation has played a significant role in the history of the arts (literary, visual, musical and performing arts). In the visual arts, to appropriate means to properly adopt, borrow, recycle or sample aspects (or the entire form) of human-made visual culture. Notable in this respect are the Readymades of Marcel Duchamp.\n\nInherent in our understanding of appropriation is the concept that the new work recontextualizes whatever it borrows to create the new work. In most cases the original 'thing' remains accessible as the original, without change.\n\nAppropriation has been defined as \"the taking over, into a work of art, of a real object or even an existing work of art.\" The Tate Gallery traces the practise back to Cubism and Dadaism, but continuing into 1940s Surrealism and 1950s Pop art. It returned to prominence in the 1980s with the Neo-Geo artists.\n\nIn the early twentieth century Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque appropriated objects from a non-art context into their work. In 1912, Picasso pasted a piece of oil cloth onto the canvas. Subsequent compositions, such as \"Guitar, Newspaper, Glass and Bottle\" (1913) in which Picasso used newspaper clippings to create forms, became categorized as \"synthetic cubism\". The two artists incorporated aspects of the \"real world\" into their canvases, opening up discussion of signification and artistic representation.\n\nMarcel Duchamp is credited with introducing the concept of the ready-made, in which \"industrially produced utilitarian objects...achieve the status of art merely through the process of selection and presentation.\" Duchamp explored this notion as early as 1913 when he mounted a stool with a bicycle wheel and again in 1915 when he purchased a snow shovel and humorously inscribed it “in advance of the broken arm, Marcel Duchamp.” In 1917, Duchamp formally submitted a readymade into the Society of Independent Artists exhibition under the pseudonym, R. Mutt. Entitled \"Fountain\", it consisted of a porcelain urinal that was propped atop a pedestal and signed \"R. Mutt 1917\". The work posed a direct challenge to traditional perceptions of fine art, ownership, originality and plagiarism, and was subsequently rejected by the exhibition committee. Duchamp publicly defended \"Fountain\", claiming \"whether Mr.Mutt with his own hands made the fountain or not has no importance. He CHOSE it. He took an ordinary article of life, placed it so that its useful significance disappeared under the new title and point of view—and created a new thought for that object.\"\n\nThe Dada movement (including Duchamp as an associate) continued with the appropriation of everyday objects. Dada works featured deliberate irrationality and the rejection of the prevailing standards of art. Kurt Schwitters, who produced art at the same time as the Dadaists, shows a similar sense of the bizarre in his \"merz\" works. He constructed these from found objects, and they took the form of large constructions that later generations would call installations.\n\nThe Surrealists, coming after the Dada movement, also incorporated the use of 'found objects' such as Méret Oppenheim's \"Object (Luncheon in Fur)\" (1936). These objects took on new meaning when combined with other unlikely and unsettling objects.\n\nIn 1938 Joseph Cornell produced what might be considered the first work of film appropriation in his randomly cut and reconstructed film \"Rose Hobart\".\n\nIn the 1950s Robert Rauschenberg used what he dubbed \"combines\", literally combining readymade objects such as tires or beds, painting, silk-screens, collage, and photography. Similarly, Jasper Johns, working at the same time as Rauschenberg, incorporated found objects into his work.\n\nThe Fluxus art movement also utilised appropriation: its members blended different artistic disciplines including visual art, music, and literature. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s they staged \"action\" events and produced sculptural works featuring unconventional materials.\n\nAlong with artists such as Claes Oldenburg and Andy Warhol appropriated images from commercial art and popular culture as well as the techniques of these industries. Often called \"pop artists\", they saw mass popular culture as the main vernacular culture, shared by all irrespective of education. These artists fully engaged with the ephemera produced from this mass-produced culture, embracing expendability and distancing themselves from the evidence of an artist's hand.\n\nIn 1958 Bruce Conner produced the influential \"A Movie\" in which he recombined existing film clips. In 1958 Raphael Montanez Ortiz produced \"Cowboy and Indian Film\", a seminal appropriation film work.\n\nIn the late 1970s Dara Birnbaum was working with appropriation to produce feminist works of art. In 1978-79 she produced one of the first video appropriations. \"\" utilised video clips from the \"Wonder Woman\" television series.\n\nThe term appropriation art was in common use in the 1980s with artists such as Sherrie Levine, who addressed the act of appropriating itself as a theme in art. Levine often quotes entire works in her own work, for example photographing photographs of Walker Evans. Challenging ideas of originality, drawing attention to relations between power, gender and creativity, consumerism and commodity value, the social sources and uses of art, Levine plays with the theme of \"almost same\". Elaine Sturtevant (also known simply as Sturtevant), on the other hand, painted and exhibited perfect replicas of famous works. She replicated Andy Warhol's \"Flowers\" in 1965 at the Bianchini Gallery in New York. She trained to reproduce the artist's own technique—to the extent that when Warhol was repeatedly questioned on his technique, he once answered \"I don't know. Ask Elaine.\"\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s Richard Prince re-photographed advertisements such as for Marlboro cigarettes or photo-journalism shots. His work takes anonymous and ubiquitous cigarette billboard advertising campaigns, elevates the status and focusses our gaze on the images.\n\nAppropriation artists comment on all aspects of culture and society. Joseph Kosuth appropriated images to engage with philosophy and epistemological theory. Other artists working with appropriation during this time with included Jeff Koons, Barbara Kruger, Greg Colson, and Malcolm Morley.\n\nIn the 1990s artists continued to produce appropriation art, using it as a medium to address theories and social issues, rather than focussing on the works themselves. Damian Loeb used film and cinema to comment on themes of simulacrum and reality. Other high-profile artists working at this time included Christian Marclay, Deborah Kass, Damien Hirst and Genco Gulan.\n\nSince the 1990s, the exploitation of historical precursors is as multifarious as the concept of appropriation is unclear. A hitherto unparalleled quantity of appropriations pervades not only the field of the visual arts, but of all cultural areas. The new generation of appropriators considers themselves \"archeolog[es] of the present time\". Some speak of \"postproduction\", which is based on pre-existing works, to re-edit \"the screenplay of culture\". The annexation of works made by others or of available cultural products mostly follows the concept of use. So-called \"prosumers\"—those consuming and producing at the same time—browse through the ubiquitous archive of the digital world (more seldom through the analog one), in order to sample the ever accessible images, words, and sounds via 'copy-paste' or 'drag-drop' to 'bootleg', 'mashup' or 'remix' them just as one likes. Appropriations have today become an everyday phenomenon.\n\nThe new \"generation remix\"—who have taken the stages not only of the visual arts, but also of music, literature, dance and film—causes, of course, highly controversial debates. Media scholars Lawrence Lessig coined in the begin of the 2000s here the term of the remix culture. On the one hand are the celebrators who foresee a new age of innovative, useful, and entertaining ways for art of the digitized and globalized 21st century. The new appropriationists will not only realize Joseph Beuys' dictum that everyone is an artist but also \"build free societies\". By liberating art finally from traditional concepts such as aura, originality, and genius, they will lead to new terms of understanding and defining art. More critical observers see this as the starting point of a huge problem. If creation is based on nothing more than carefree processes of finding, copying, recombining and manipulating pre-existing media, concepts, forms, names, etc. of any source, the understanding of art will shift in their sight to a trivialized, low-demanding, and regressive activity. In view of the limitation of art to references to pre-existing concepts and forms, they foresee endless recompiled and repurposed products. Skeptics call this a culture of recycling with an addiction to the past\n\nSome say that only lazy people who have nothing to say let themselves be inspired by the past in this way. Others fear, that this new trend of appropriation is caused by nothing more than the wish of embellishing oneself with an attractive genealogy. The term appropriationism reflects the overproduction of reproductions, remakings, reenactments, recreations, revisionings, reconstructings, etc. by copying, imitating, repeating, quoting, plagiarizing, simulating, and adapting pre-existing names, concepts and forms. Appropriationism is discussed—in comparison of appropriation forms and concepts of the 20th century which offer new representations of established knowledge—as a kind of \"racing standstill\", referring to the acceleration of random, uncontrollable operations in highly mobilised, fluid Western societies that are governed more and more by abstract forms of control. Unlimited access to the digital archive of creations and easily feasible digital technologies, as well as the priority of fresh ideas and creative processes over a perfect masterpiece leads to a hyperactive hustle and bustle around the past instead of launching new expeditions into unexplored territory that could give visibility to the forgotten ghosts and ignored phantoms of our common myths and ideologies.\n\nAppropriation art has resulted in contentious copyright issues regarding its validity under copyright law. The U.S. has been particularly litigious in this respect. A number of case-law examples have emerged that investigate the division between transformative works and derivative works.\n\nAndy Warhol faced a series of lawsuits from photographers whose work he appropriated and silk-screened. Patricia Caulfield, one such photographer, had taken a picture of flowers for a photography demonstration for a photography magazine. Without her permission, Warhol covered the walls of Leo Castelli's New York gallery with his silk-screened reproductions of Caulfield's photograph in 1964. After seeing a poster of Warhol's unauthorized reproductions in a bookstore, Caulfield sued Warhol for violating her rights as the copyright owner, and Warhol made a cash settlement out of court.\n\nOn the other hand, Warhol's famous \"Campbell's Soup Cans\" are generally held to be non-infringing of the soup maker's trademark, despite being clearly appropriated, because \"the public was unlikely to see the painting as sponsored by the soup company or representing a competing product. Paintings and soup cans are not in themselves competing products\", according to expert trademark lawyer Jerome Gilson.\n\nJeff Koons has also confronted issues of copyright due to his appropriation work (see \"Rogers v. Koons\"). Photographer Art Rogers brought suit against Koons for copyright infringement in 1989. Koons' work, \"String of Puppies\" sculpturally reproduced Rogers' black-and-white photograph that had appeared on an airport greeting card that Koons had bought. Though he claimed fair use and parody in his defense, Koons lost the case, partially due to the tremendous success he had as an artist and the manner in which he was portrayed in the media. The parody argument also failed, as the appeals court drew a distinction between creating a parody of modern society in general and a parody directed at a specific work, finding parody of a specific work, especially of a very obscure one, too weak to justify the fair use of the original.\n\nIn October 2006, Koons successfully defended a different work by claiming \"fair use\". For a seven-painting commission for the Deutsche Guggenheim Berlin, Koons drew on part of a photograph taken by Andrea Blanch titled \"Silk Sandals by Gucci\" and published in the August 2000 issue of \"Allure\" magazine to illustrate an article on metallic makeup. Koons took the image of the legs and diamond sandals from that photo (omitting other background details) and used it in his painting \"Niagara\", which also includes three other pairs of women's legs dangling surreally over a landscape of pies and cakes.\n\nIn his decision, Judge Louis L. Stanton of U.S. District Court found that \"Niagara\" was indeed a \"transformative use\" of Blanch's photograph. \"The painting's use does not 'supersede' or duplicate the objective of the original\", the judge wrote, \"but uses it as raw material in a novel way to create new information, new aesthetics and new insights. Such use, whether successful or not artistically, is transformative.\"\n\nThe detail of Blanch's photograph used by Koons is only marginally copyrightable. Blanch has no rights to the Gucci sandals, \"perhaps the most striking element of the photograph\", the judge wrote. And without the sandals, only a representation of a woman's legs remains—and this was seen as \"not sufficiently original to deserve much copyright protection.\"\nIn 2000, Damien Hirst's sculpture \"Hymn\" (which Charles Saatchi had bought for a reported £1m) was exhibited in \"Ant Noises\" in the Saatchi Gallery. Hirst was sued for breach of copyright over this sculpture. The subject was a 'Young Scientist Anatomy Set' belonging to his son Connor, 10,000 of which are sold a year by Hull (Emms) Toy Manufacturer. Hirst created a 20-foot, six-ton enlargement of the Science Set figure, radically changing the perception of the object. Hirst paid an undisclosed sum to two charities, Children Nationwide and the Toy Trust in an out-of-court settlement. The charitable donation was less than Emms had hoped for. Hirst sold three more copies of his sculpture for similar amounts to the first.\n\nAppropriating a familiar object to make an art work can prevent the artist claiming copyright ownership. Jeff Koons threatened to sue a gallery under copyright, claiming that the gallery infringed his proprietary rights by selling bookends in the shape of balloon dogs. Koons abandoned that claim after the gallery filed a complaint for declaratory relief stating, \"As virtually any clown can attest, no one owns the idea of making a balloon dog, and the shape created by twisting a balloon into a dog-like form is part of the public domain.\"\n\nIn 2008, photojournalist Patrick Cariou sued artist Richard Prince, Gagosian Gallery and Rizzoli books for copyright infringement. Prince had appropriated 40 of Cariou's photos of Rastafari from a book, creating a series of paintings known as \"Canal Zone\". Prince variously altered the photos, painting objects, oversized hands, naked women and male torsos over the photographs, subsequently selling over $10 million worth of the works. In March 2011, a judge ruled in favor of Cariou, but Prince and Gargosian appealed on a number of points. Three judges for the U.S. Court of Appeals upheld the right to an appeal. Prince's attorney argued that \"Appropriation art is a well-recognized modern and postmodern art form that has challenged the way people think about art, challenged the way people think about objects, images, sounds, culture\" On April 24, 2013, the appeals court largely overturned the original decision, deciding that many of the paintings had sufficiently transformed the original images and were therefore a permitted use. \"See Cariou v. Prince.\"\n\nIn November 2010, Chuck Close threatened legal action against computer artist Scott Blake for creating a Photoshop filter that built images out of dissected Chuck Close paintings. The story was first reported by online arts magazine Hyperallergic, it was reprinted on the front page of Salon.com, and spread rapidly through the web. Kembrew McLeod, author of several books on sampling and appropriation, said in Wired that Scott Blake's art should fall under the doctrine of fair use.\n\nIn September 2014, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit questioned the Second Circuit's interpretation of the fair use doctrine in the \"Cariou\" case. Of particular note, the Seventh Circuit noted that \"transformative use\" is not one of the four enumerated fair use factors but is, rather, simply part of the first fair use factor which looks to the \"purpose and character\" of the use. The Seventh Circuit's critique lends credence to the argument that there is a split among U.S. courts as to what role \"transformativeness\" is to play in any fair use inquiry.\n\nIn 2013, Andrew Gilden and Timothy Greene published a law review article in The \"University of Chicago Law Review\" dissecting the factual similarities and legal differences between the \"Cariou\" case and the \"Salinger v. Colting\" case, articulating concerns that judges may be creating a fair use \"privilege largely reserved for the rich and famous.\"\n\nThe following are artists known for their use of pre-existing objects or images with little or no transformation applied to them:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21296224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21296224", "title": "Architecture", "text": "Architecture\n\nArchitecture is both the process and the product of planning, designing, and constructing buildings or any other structures. Architectural works, in the material form of buildings, are often perceived as cultural symbols and as works of art. Historical civilizations are often identified with their surviving architectural achievements.\n\nArchitecture (Latin \"architectura\", from the Greek ἀρχιτέκτων \"arkhitekton\" \"architect\", from ἀρχι- \"chief\" and τέκτων \"creator\") is both the process and the product of planning, designing, and constructing buildings and other physical structures.\n\nArchitecture can mean:\n\nThe earliest surviving written work on the subject of architecture is \"De architectura\", by the Roman architect Vitruvius in the early 1st century AD. According to Vitruvius, a good building should satisfy the three principles of \"firmitas, utilitas, venustas\", commonly known by the original translation – \"firmness, commodity and delight\". An equivalent in modern English would be:\nAccording to Vitruvius, the architect should strive to fulfill each of these three attributes as well as possible.\nLeon Battista Alberti, who elaborates on the ideas of Vitruvius in his treatise, \"De Re Aedificatoria\", saw beauty primarily as a matter of proportion, although ornament also played a part. For Alberti, the rules of proportion were those that governed the idealised human figure, the Golden mean.\n\nThe most important aspect of beauty was, therefore, an inherent part of an object, rather than something applied superficially, and was based on universal, recognisable truths. The notion of style in the arts was not developed until the 16th century, with the writing of Vasari: by the 18th century, his Lives of the Most Excellent Painters, Sculptors, and Architects had been translated into Italian, French, Spanish, and English.\n\nIn the early 19th century, Augustus Welby Northmore Pugin wrote \"Contrasts\" (1836) that, as the titled suggested, contrasted the modern, industrial world, which he disparaged, with an idealized image of neo-medieval world. Gothic architecture, Pugin believed, was the only \"true Christian form of architecture.\"\n\nThe 19th-century English art critic, John Ruskin, in his \"Seven Lamps of Architecture\", published 1849, was much narrower in his view of what constituted architecture. Architecture was the \"art which so disposes and adorns the edifices raised by men ... that the sight of them\" contributes \"to his mental health, power, and pleasure\".\n\nFor Ruskin, the aesthetic was of overriding significance. His work goes on to state that a building is not truly a work of architecture unless it is in some way \"adorned\". For Ruskin, a well-constructed, well-proportioned, functional building needed string courses or rustication, at the very least.\n\nOn the difference between the ideals of \"architecture\" and mere \"construction\", the renowned 20th-century architect Le Corbusier wrote: \"You employ stone, wood, and concrete, and with these materials you build houses and palaces: that is construction. Ingenuity is at work. But suddenly you touch my heart, you do me good. I am happy and I say: This is beautiful. That is Architecture\".\n\nLe Corbusier's contemporary Ludwig Mies van der Rohe said \"Architecture starts when you carefully put two bricks together. There it begins.\"\n\nThe notable 19th-century architect of skyscrapers, Louis Sullivan, promoted an overriding precept to architectural design: \"Form follows function\".\n\nWhile the notion that structural and aesthetic considerations should be entirely subject to functionality was met with both popularity and skepticism, it had the effect of introducing the concept of \"function\" in place of Vitruvius' \"utility\". \"Function\" came to be seen as encompassing all criteria of the use, perception and enjoyment of a building, not only practical but also aesthetic, psychological and cultural.\n\nNunzia Rondanini stated, \"Through its aesthetic dimension architecture goes beyond the functional aspects that it has in common with other human sciences. Through its own particular way of expressing values, architecture can stimulate and influence social life without presuming that, in and of itself, it will promote social development.'\n\nTo restrict the meaning of (architectural) formalism to art for art's sake is not only reactionary; it can also be a purposeless quest for perfection or originality which degrades form into a mere instrumentality\".\n\nAmong the philosophies that have influenced modern architects and their approach to building design are rationalism, empiricism, structuralism, poststructuralism, and phenomenology.\n\nIn the late 20th century a new concept was added to those included in the compass of both structure and function, the consideration of sustainability, hence sustainable architecture. To satisfy the contemporary ethos a building should be constructed in a manner which is environmentally friendly in terms of the production of its materials, its impact upon the natural and built environment of its surrounding area and the demands that it makes upon non-sustainable power sources for heating, cooling, water and waste management and lighting.\n\nPhilosophy of Architecture is a branch of philosophy of art, dealing with aesthetic value of architecture, its semantics and relations with development of culture.\n\nPlato to Michel Foucault, Gilles Deleuze, Robert Venturi as well as many other philosophers and theoreticians, distinguish architecture ('technion') from building ('demiorgos'), attributing the former to mental traits, and the latter to the divine or natural.\n\nThe Wittgenstein House is considered one of the most important examples of interactions between philosophy and architecture. Built by renowned Austrian philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, the house has been the subject of extensive research about the relationship between its stylistic features, Wittgenstein's personality, and his philosophy.\n\nBuilding first evolved out of the dynamics between needs (shelter, security, worship, etc.) and means (available building materials and attendant skills). As human cultures developed and knowledge began to be formalized through oral traditions and practices, building became a craft, and \"architecture\" is the name given to the most highly formalized and respected versions of that craft.\nIt is widely assumed that architectural success was the product of a process of trial and error, with progressively less trial and more replication as the results of the process proved increasingly satisfactory. What is termed vernacular architecture continues to be produced in many parts of the world. Indeed, vernacular buildings make up most of the built world that people experience every day.\nEarly human settlements were mostly rural. Due to a surplus in production the economy began to expand resulting in urbanization thus creating urban areas which grew and evolved very rapidly in some cases, such as that of Çatal Höyük in Anatolia and Mohenjo Daro of the Indus Valley Civilization in modern-day Pakistan.\n\nIn many ancient civilizations, such as those of Egypt and Mesopotamia, architecture and urbanism reflected the constant engagement with the divine and the supernatural, and many ancient cultures resorted to monumentality in architecture to represent symbolically the political power of the ruler, the ruling elite, or the state itself.\n\nThe architecture and urbanism of the Classical civilizations such as the Greek and the Roman evolved from civic ideals rather than religious or empirical ones and new building types emerged. Architectural \"style\" developed in the form of the Classical orders. Roman architecture was influenced by Greek architecture as they incorporated many Greek elements into their building practices.\n\nTexts on architecture have been written since ancient time. These texts provided both general advice and specific formal prescriptions or canons. Some examples of canons are found in the writings of the 1st-century BCE Roman Architect Vitruvius. Some of the most important early examples of canonic architecture are religious.\nEarly Asian writings on architecture include the \"Kao Gong Ji\" of China from the 7th–5th centuries BCE; the Shilpa Shastras of ancient India; Manjusri Vasthu Vidya Sastra of Sri Lanka and Araniko of Nepal .\n\nThe architecture of different parts of Asia developed along different lines from that of Europe; Buddhist, Hindu and Sikh architecture each having different characteristics. Buddhist architecture, in particular, showed great regional diversity. Hindu temple architecture, which developed around the 3rd century BCE, is governed by concepts laid down in the Shastras, and is concerned with expressing the macrocosm and the microcosm. In many Asian countries, pantheistic religion led to architectural forms that were designed specifically to enhance the natural landscape.\n\nIslamic architecture began in the 7th century CE, incorporating architectural forms from the ancient Middle East and Byzantium, but also developing features to suit the religious and social needs of the society. Examples can be found throughout the Middle East, North Africa, Spain and the Indian Sub-continent.\n\nIn Europe during the Medieval period, guilds were formed by craftsmen to organise their trades and written contracts have survived, particularly in relation to ecclesiastical buildings. The role of architect was usually one with that of master mason, or \"Magister lathomorum\" as they are sometimes described in contemporary documents.\n\nThe major architectural undertakings were the buildings of abbeys and cathedrals. From about 900 CE onwards, the movements of both clerics and tradesmen carried architectural knowledge across Europe, resulting in the pan-European styles Romanesque and Gothic.\n\nIn Renaissance Europe, from about 1400 onwards, there was a revival of Classical learning accompanied by the development of Renaissance Humanism which placed greater emphasis on the role of the individual in society than had been the case during the Medieval period. Buildings were ascribed to specific architects – Brunelleschi, Alberti, Michelangelo, Palladio – and the cult of the individual had begun. There was still no dividing line between artist, architect and engineer, or any of the related vocations, and the appellation was often one of regional preference.\n\nA revival of the Classical style in architecture was accompanied by a burgeoning of science and engineering which affected the proportions and structure of buildings. At this stage, it was still possible for an artist to design a bridge as the level of structural calculations involved was within the scope of the generalist.\nWith the emerging knowledge in scientific fields and the rise of new materials and technology, architecture and engineering began to separate, and the architect began to concentrate on aesthetics and the humanist aspects, often at the expense of technical aspects of building design. There was also the rise of the \"gentleman architect\" who usually dealt with wealthy clients and concentrated predominantly on visual qualities derived usually from historical prototypes, typified by the many country houses of Great Britain that were created in the Neo Gothic or Scottish Baronial styles.\nFormal architectural training in the 19th century, for example at École des Beaux-Arts in France, gave much emphasis to the production of beautiful drawings and little to context and feasibility.\n\nMeanwhile, the Industrial Revolution laid open the door for mass production and consumption. Aesthetics became a criterion for the middle class as ornamented products, once within the province of expensive craftsmanship, became cheaper under machine production.\n\nVernacular architecture became increasingly ornamental. House builders could use current architectural design in their work by combining features found in pattern books and architectural journals.\n\nAround the beginning of the 20th century, a general dissatisfaction with the emphasis on revivalist architecture and elaborate decoration gave rise to many new lines of thought that served as precursors to Modern Architecture. Notable among these is the Deutscher Werkbund, formed in 1907 to produce better quality machine made objects. The rise of the profession of industrial design is usually placed here. Following this lead, the Bauhaus school, founded in Weimar, Germany in 1919, redefined the architectural bounds prior set throughout history, viewing the creation of a building as the ultimate synthesis—the apex—of art, craft, and technology.\n\nWhen modern architecture was first practiced, it was an avant-garde movement with moral, philosophical, and aesthetic underpinnings. Immediately after World War I, pioneering modernist architects sought to develop a completely new style appropriate for a new post-war social and economic order, focused on meeting the needs of the middle and working classes. They rejected the architectural practice of the academic refinement of historical styles which served the rapidly declining aristocratic order. The approach of the Modernist architects was to reduce buildings to pure forms, removing historical references and ornament in favor of functionalist details. Buildings displayed their functional and structural elements, exposing steel beams and concrete surfaces instead of hiding them behind decorative forms. Architects such as Frank Lloyd Wright developed organic architecture, in which the form was defined by its environment and purpose, with an aim to promote harmony between human habitation and the natural world with prime examples being Robie House and Fallingwater.\n\nArchitects such as Mies van der Rohe, Philip Johnson and Marcel Breuer worked to create beauty based on the inherent qualities of building materials and modern construction techniques, trading traditional historic forms for simplified geometric forms, celebrating the new means and methods made possible by the Industrial Revolution, including steel-frame construction, which gave birth to high-rise superstructures. Fazlur Rahman Khan's development of the tube structure was a technological break-through in building ever higher. By mid-century, Modernism had morphed into the International Style, an aesthetic epitomized in many ways by the Twin Towers of New York's World Trade Center designed by Minoru Yamasaki.\n\nMany architects resisted modernism, finding it devoid of the decorative richness of historical styles. As the first generation of modernists began to die after World War II, a second generation of architects including Paul Rudolph, Marcel Breuer, and Eero Saarinen tried to expand the aesthetics of modernism with Brutalism, buildings with expressive sculptural façades made of unfinished concrete. But an even new younger postwar generation critiqued modernism and Brutalism for being too austere, standardized, monotone, and not taking into account the richness of human experience offered in historical buildings across time and in different places and cultures.\n\nOne such reaction to the cold aesthetic of modernism and Brutalism is the school of metaphoric architecture, which includes such things as biomorphism and zoomorphic architecture, both using nature as the primary source of inspiration and design. While it is considered by some to be merely an aspect of postmodernism, others consider it to be a school in its own right and a later development of expressionist architecture.\n\nBeginning in the late 1950s and 1960s, architectural phenomenology emerged as an important movement in the early reaction against modernism, with architects like Charles Moore in the United States, Christian Norberg-Schulz in Norway, and Ernesto Nathan Rogers and Vittorio Gregotti, Michele Valori, Bruno Zevi in Italy, who collectively popularized an interest in a new contemporary architecture aimed at expanding human experience using historical buildings as models and precedents. Postmodernism produced a style that combined contemporary building technology and cheap materials, with the aesthetics of older pre-modern and non-modern styles, from high classical architecture to popular or vernacular regional building styles. Robert Venturi famously defined postmodern architecture as a \"decorated shed\" (an ordinary building which is functionally designed inside and embellished on the outside), and upheld it against modernist and brutalist \"ducks\" (buildings with unnecessarily expressive tectonic forms).\n\nSince the 1980s, as the complexity of buildings began to increase (in terms of structural systems, services, energy and technologies), the field of architecture became multi-disciplinary with specializations for each project type, technological expertise or project delivery methods. In addition, there has been an increased separation of the 'design' architect from the 'project' architect who ensures that the project meets the required standards and deals with matters of liability. The preparatory processes for the design of any large building have become increasingly complicated, and require preliminary studies of such matters as durability, sustainability, quality, money, and compliance with local laws. A large structure can no longer be the design of one person but must be the work of many.\nModernism and Postmodernism have been criticised by some members of the architectural profession who feel that successful architecture is not a personal, philosophical, or aesthetic pursuit by individualists; rather it has to consider everyday needs of people and use technology to create liveable environments, with the design process being informed by studies of behavioral, environmental, and social sciences.\n\nEnvironmental sustainability has become a mainstream issue, with profound effect on the architectural profession. Many developers, those who support the financing of buildings, have become educated to encourage the facilitation of environmentally sustainable design, rather than solutions based primarily on immediate cost. Major examples of this can be found in passive solar building design, greener roof designs, biodegradable materials, and more attention to a structure's energy usage. This major shift in architecture has also changed architecture schools to focus more on the environment. There has been an acceleration in the number of buildings which seek to meet green building sustainable design principles. Sustainable practices that were at the core of vernacular architecture increasingly provide inspiration for environmentally and socially sustainable contemporary techniques. The U.S. Green Building Council's LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) rating system has been instrumental in this.\n\nConcurrently, the recent movements of New Urbanism, metaphoric architecture and New Classical Architecture promote a sustainable approach towards construction that appreciates and develops smart growth, architectural tradition and classical design. This in contrast to modernist and globally uniform architecture, as well as leaning against solitary housing estates and suburban sprawl. Glass curtain walls, which were the hallmark of the ultra modern urban life in many countries surfaced even in developing countries like Nigeria where international styles had been represented since the mid 20th Century mostly because of the leanings of foreign-trained architects.\n\nBusiness architecture is defined as \"a blueprint of the enterprise that provides a common understanding of the organization and is used to align strategic objectives and tactical demands.\" People who develop and maintain business architecture are known as business architects.\n\nBusiness architecture is the bridge between the enterprise business model and enterprise strategy on one side, and the business functionality of the enterprise on the other side.\n\nCognitive architecture can refer to a theory about the structure of the human mind. One of the main goals of a cognitive architecture is to summarize the various results of cognitive psychology in a comprehensive computer model. However, the results need to be in a formalized form so far that they can be the basis of a computer program. The formalized models can be used to further refine a comprehensive theory of cognition, and more immediately, as a commercially usable model. Successful cognitive architectures include ACT-R (Adaptive Control of Thought, ACT) and SOAR.\n\nThe Institute of Creative Technologies defines cognitive architecture as: \"hypothesis about the fixed structures that provide a mind, whether in natural or artificial systems, and how they work together – in conjunction with knowledge and skills embodied within the architecture – to yield intelligent behavior in a diversity of complex environments.\"\n\nIn computer engineering, \"computer architecture\" is a set of rules and methods that describe the functionality, organization, and implementation of computer systems. Some definitions of architecture define it as describing the capabilities and programming model of a computer but not a particular implementation. In other definitions computer architecture involves instruction set architecture design, microarchitecture design, logic design, and implementation.\n\nEnterprise architecture (EA) is \"a well-defined practice for conducting enterprise analysis, design, planning, and implementation, using a holistic approach at all times, for the successful development and execution of strategy. Enterprise architecture applies architecture principles and practices to guide organizations through the business, information, process, and technology changes necessary to execute their strategies. These practices utilize the various aspects of an enterprise to identify, motivate, and achieve these changes.\"\n\nPractitioners of enterprise architecture, \"enterprise architects\", are responsible for performing the analysis of business structure and processes and are often called upon to draw conclusions from the information collected to address the goals of enterprise architecture: effectiveness, efficiency, agility, and durability.\n\nInterior architecture is the design of a space which has been created by structural boundaries and the human interaction within these boundaries. It can also be the initial design and plan for use, then later redesign to accommodate a changed purpose, or a significantly revised design for adaptive reuse of the building shell. The latter is often part of sustainable architecture practices, conserving resources through \"recycling\" a structure by adaptive redesign. Generally referred to as the spatial art of environmental design, form and practice, interior architecture is the process through which the interiors of buildings are designed, concerned with all aspects of the human uses of structural spaces. Put simply, Interior Architecture is the design of an interior in architectural terms.\n\nLandscape architecture is the design of outdoor public areas, landmarks, and structures to achieve environmental, social-behavioral, or aesthetic outcomes. It involves the systematic investigation of existing social, ecological, and soil conditions and processes in the landscape, and the design of interventions that will produce the desired outcome. The scope of the profession includes landscape design; site planning; stormwater management; environmental restoration; parks and recreation planning; visual resource management; green infrastructure planning and provision; and private estate and residence landscape master planning and design; all at varying scales of design, planning and management. A practitioner in the profession of landscape architecture is called a landscape architect.\n\nNaval architecture, also known as naval engineering, is an engineering discipline dealing with the engineering design process, shipbuilding, maintenance, and operation of marine vessels and structures. Naval architecture involves basic and applied research, design, development, design evaluation and calculations during all stages of the life of a marine vehicle. Preliminary design of the vessel, its detailed design, construction, trials, operation and maintenance, launching and dry-docking are the main activities involved. Ship design calculations are also required for ships being modified (by means of conversion, rebuilding, modernization, or repair). Naval architecture also involves formulation of safety regulations and damage control rules and the approval and certification of ship designs to meet statutory and non-statutory requirements.\n\nNetwork architecture is the design of a communication network. It is a framework for the specification of a network's physical components and their functional organization and configuration, its operational principles and procedures, as well as data formats use. In telecommunication, the specification of a network architecture may also include a detailed description of products and services delivered via a communications network, as well as detailed rate and billing structures under which services are compensated.\n\nSoftware architecture refers to the fundamental structures of a software system, the discipline of creating such structures, and the documentation of these structures. These structures are needed to reason about the software system. Each structure comprises software elements, relations among them, and properties of both elements and relations, along with rationale for the introduction and configuration of each element.\nThe \"architecture\" of a software system is a metaphor, analogous to the architecture of a building.\n\nSoftware architecture is about making fundamental structural choices which are costly to change once implemented. Software architecture choices, also called architectural decisions, include specific structural options from possibilities in the design of software. For example, the systems that controlled the space shuttle launch vehicle had the requirement of being very fast and very reliable. Therefore, an appropriate real-time computing language would need to be chosen. Additionally, to satisfy the need for reliability the choice could be made to have multiple redundant and independently produced copies of the program, and to run these copies on independent hardware while cross-checking results.\n\nDocumenting software architecture facilitates communication between stakeholders, captures decisions about the architecture design, and allows reuse of design components between projects.\n\nIn distributed computing, computations are distributed over different networked computers, which communicate and coordinate their actions by passing messages to one another. Examples of architectures for distributed computing include high-level architecture (HLA) and Distributed Interactive Simulation (DIS).\n\nSystem architecture is a conceptual model that defines the structure, behavior, and more views of a system. An architecture description is a formal description and representation of a system, organized in a way that supports reasoning about the structures and behaviors of the system.\n\nA system architecture can comprise system components that will work together to implement the overall system. There have been efforts to formalize languages to describe system architecture, collectively these are called architecture description languages (ADLs).\n\nUrban design is the process of designing and shaping the physical features of cities, towns and villages. In contrast to architecture, which focuses on the design of individual buildings, urban design deals with the larger scale of groups of buildings, streets and public spaces, whole neighborhoods and districts, and entire cities, with the goal of making urban areas functional, attractive, and sustainable.\n\nUrban design is an inter-disciplinary field that utilizes elements of many built environment professions, including landscape architecture, urban planning, architecture, civil engineering and municipal engineering. It is common for professionals in all these disciplines to practice urban design. In more recent times different sub-subfields of urban design have emerged such as strategic urban design, landscape urbanism, water-sensitive urban design, and sustainable urbanism.\n\n"}
{"id": "40777919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40777919", "title": "Artificial Paradises (film)", "text": "Artificial Paradises (film)\n\nArtificial Paradises () is a 2012 Brazilian drama film directed by Marcos Prado and starring Nathalia Dill, Luca Bianchi and Lívia de Bueno.\n\nErika (Nathalia Dill) is a successful DJ and friend of Lara (Livia de Bueno). During a festival where Erika was working, they met Nando (Luca Bianchi) and, together, they live an intense moment. However, soon after the trio split up. Years after Erika and Nando are reunited in Amsterdam, where they fall in love. But just Erika remembers the real motive why they moved away shortly after they met, years before.\n\n\nThe \"Artificial Paradises\" name was inspired by the title of the book of the same name by Baudelaire. \"I read the book and thought the title fit perfectly in the film, although addressing another era, the mid-19th century, and the consumption of other drugs, wine, opium and hashish,\" admits Prado.\n\nFilming took place between 18 October and 25 November in Praia do Paiva, in Recife, and also in Rio de Janeiro, in the traditional Arpoador beach. Some external scenes were filmed in Amsterdam.\n\nThe original soundtrack of the film was produced by Rodrigo Coelho and Gustavo MM.\n\n"}
{"id": "44990514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44990514", "title": "Aut Aut", "text": "Aut Aut\n\nAut Aut is an Italian-language critical philosophy and literary magazine published in Milan, Italy. Its name is of Latin origin and refers to existential choice and also, to Søren Kierkegaard’s \"either/or\" conceptualization.\n\nSubtitled \"Rivista di filosofia e di cultura\", \"Aut Aut\" was founded in 1951 by Enzo Paci. Enzo Paci was also the editor-in-chief of the magazine until his death in 1976. The magazine is based in Milan.\n\n\"Aut Aut\" has a phenomenological and existentialist orientation. The magazine covers articles on philosophy, literature, sociology, linguistics and also, on architecture and urbanism.\n\nGillo Dorfles is among the significant former contributors. Roberto Sanesi started his career as a critic in the magazine in the 1950s. Pierre Aldo Rovatti was on the editorial board of the magazine between 1974 and 1976. During that period it became a significant forum for the discussions of Marxism and poststructuralism. Afterwards it continued to be published as a critical magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "218965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218965", "title": "Bayreuth Festspielhaus", "text": "Bayreuth Festspielhaus\n\nThe Bayreuth Festspielhaus or Bayreuth Festival Theatre (, ) is an opera house north of Bayreuth, Germany, built by the 19th-century German composer Richard Wagner and dedicated solely to the performance of his stage works. It is the venue for the annual Bayreuth Festival, for which it was specifically conceived and built. Its official name is .\n\nWagner adapted the design of the \"Festspielhaus\" from an unrealised project by Gottfried Semper for an opera house in Munich, without the architect's permission, and supervised its construction. Ludwig II of Bavaria provided the primary funding for the construction. The foundation stone was laid on 22 May 1872, Wagner's 59th birthday. The building was first opened for the premiere of the complete four-opera cycle of (\"The Ring of the Nibelung\"), from 13 to 17 August 1876.\n\nOnly the entry façade exhibits the typical late-19th-century ornamentation, while the remainder of the exterior is modest and shows mostly undecorated bricks. The interior is mainly wood and has a reverberation time of 1.55 seconds. The Festspielhaus is a carpenter's building; in fact, it is the largest free-standing timber structure ever erected. Unlike the traditional opera house design with several tiers of seating in a horseshoe shaped auditorium, the Festspielhaus's seats are arranged in a single steeply-shaped wedge, with galleries or boxes along the back wall only. This is also known as continental seating. Many contemporary movie theaters have adopted this style of seating, which gives every seat an equal and uninterrupted view of the stage. The capacity of the Festspielhaus is 1,925 and has a volume of 10,000 cubic metres.\n\nThe Festspielhaus features a double proscenium, which gives the audience the illusion that the stage is further away than it actually is. The double proscenium and the recessed orchestra pit create – in Wagner's term – a \"mystic gulf\" between the audience and the stage. This gives a dreamlike character to performances, and provides a physical reinforcement of the mythic content of most of Wagner's operas. The architecture of Festpielhaus accomplished many of Wagner's goals and ideals for the performances of his operas including an improvement on the sound, feel, and overall look of the production.\n\nThe Festpielhaus was originally planned to open in 1873, but by that time Wagner had barely raised enough money to put up the walls of his theatre. He began to raise money by traveling and putting on concerts in various cities and countries throughout Europe. There are, however, some documents concerning the donation and aid (900 thaler) to Wagner for that matter by the Sultan Abdülaziz of the Ottoman Empire. Even after Ludwig began funding the project, Wagner had to continue putting on concerts to keep the building project financially afloat. The tours were very taxing on Wagner's health and would eventually be a key element to his death later on in 1883.\n\nA significant feature of the Festspielhaus is its unusual orchestra pit. It is recessed under the stage and covered by a hood, so that the orchestra is completely invisible to the audience. This feature was a central preoccupation for Wagner, since it made the audience concentrate on the drama onstage, rather than the distracting motion of the conductor and musicians. The design also corrected the balance of volume between singers and orchestra, creating ideal acoustics for Wagner's operas, which are the only operas performed at the Festspielhaus. However, this arrangement has also made it the most challenging to conduct in, even for the world's best conductors. Not only is the crowded pit enveloped in darkness, but the acoustic reverberation makes it difficult to synchronise the orchestra with the singers. Conductors must therefore retrain themselves to ignore cues from singers.\n\nThe orchestra layout deployed at Bayreuth is unusual in three ways:\n\n\nThe Festspielhaus remains the venue of the annual Bayreuth Festival, during which Wagner's later operas, such as the \"Ring\" cycle and \"Parsifal\", are given on a repertory basis.\n\nIn early 2012, Katharina Wagner mentioned the need for repairs to the building, with mention specifically of roof leaks and crumbling of the red brick facade. In 2014, funding for restoration was announced at a level of approximately 30M €, primarily from public funding shared between Germany and the state of Bavaria, with the German national government and the Bavarian state government holding majority shares.\n\nRepairs were completed on 26 July 2015 and the building is fully restored.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33075099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33075099", "title": "Boiler design", "text": "Boiler design\n\nBoiler design is the process of designing boilers used for various purposes. The main function of a boiler is to heat water to generate steam. Steam produced in a boiler can be used for a variety of purposes including space heating, sterilisation, drying, humidification and power generation. The temperature or condition of steam required for these applications is different, so boiler designs vary accordingly.\n\nModern boiler design offers several benefits. In the past, improper design of boilers has caused explosions which led to loss of life and property. Modern designs attempt to avoid such mishaps. Further, mathematical modeling can determine how much space a boiler will need and the type of materials to be used. When the design specifications of a boiler are determined, design engineers can estimate a cost and time schedule for the construction.\n\nBoiler design may be based upon:\n\nAccessories and mountings are devices which form an integral part of boiler but are not mounted on it. They include economizers, superheaters, feed pumps and air pre-heaters. Accessories help in controlling and running the boiler efficiently. Certain common mountings (specifically those required by the Indian Boiler Act) include:\n\n"}
{"id": "30865340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30865340", "title": "Cilla Battersby-Brown", "text": "Cilla Battersby-Brown\n\nCilla Battersby-Brown (also Brown) is a fictional character from the British ITV soap opera, \"Coronation Street\", played by Wendi Peters. She made her first appearance on 20 October 2003. After three years in the role, Peters announced her departure from the show in January 2007. Cilla made her on-screen exit on 12 October 2007. Peters later reprised the role for the feature-length episode \"\", in November 2008. This was produced on the condition that it would be only be available on DVD and would never be broadcast on TV. On 26 June 2014, it was announced that Peters would reprise the role of Cilla for a short stint. She returned for three weeks from 22 October to 14 November 2014.\n\nCilla was introduced as a love interest for established character Les Battersby (Bruce Jones), after his marriage to Janice ended after nearly ten years. Cilla was also the mother of Chesney (Sam Aston), Fiz (Jennie McAlpine) and Billy Brown (Jay Martin). During her time on the show, Cilla pulled several scams and was disliked by most of her neighbours. She was diagnosed with skin cancer and later used her condition to get revenge on Les after he had an affair. Cilla left Weatherfield for Las Vegas in 2007, leaving her teenage son Chesney behind.\n\nCilla meets Les Battersby (Bruce Jones) in the Weatherfield Arms, where she works as a barmaid. When Cilla comes face to face with Fiz Brown (Jennie McAlpine), it emerges that they are mother and daughter. Cilla also reveals that she has left her young son Chesney (Sam Aston) at home alone, while she is out having fun with her new man. When Rita Sullivan (Barbara Knox) hits Chesney for stealing from her shop, Cilla uses it as an opportunity to claim compensation. She has Rita arrested and prosecuted for assaulting Chesney. Rita spends a night in jail for contempt of court and Cilla receives £500 in compensation and £500 in damages. However, she demands more from Rita and threatens to sue her in a civil court. Eventually, Cilla drops the case. When Janice Battersby (Vicky Entwistle) finds out that Cilla and Les are dating, the two women begin arguing; which leads to a fight. Cilla and Chesney move in with Les and Fiz. Les buys them a large bathtub, but when Chesney's dog Schmeichel decides to join them, it crashes through the floor, due to the extra weight. The next day, Norris Cole (Malcolm Hebden), tries to report the bath incident to the council.\n\nLes and Cilla plan to marry just to get wedding presents from everyone. When Les' favourite band Status Quo show up in Weatherfield, Cilla sees another way to make quick money when the band attacks Les for ruining a concert twenty years earlier. Cilla demands compensation from the band unless they perform at her reception. The band agree to perform, which angers Cilla as she wanted the money. On the day of the wedding, Cilla has a run-in with Tracy Barlow (Kate Ford), as she has not paid for her wedding bouquet. Cilla and Les marry. At the reception, The Quo are in a back room where the presents were being kept, when Les walks in and tells them that he has always wanted to trash a room full of expensive things. He duly wrecks everything and throws a television out the window, only for Cilla to walk in and inform him that he had just trashed their wedding presents. Cilla attacks Les, before they join The Quo on stage.\n\nCilla throws Les out after he admits to having slept with Janice. Cilla is hurt at what Les has done, and starts wearing basic clothes and no make-up. When Les says he will crawl across the cobbles in order to win Cilla over, Cilla can not let Les go through with it, and they reconcile. Cilla tells Fiz that she has skin cancer. On finding out that Les has had an affair with her best friend, Yana Lumb; Cilla decides to get revenge. She tells everyone that her cancer is terminal, leading the Street's residents to make a collection to send Cilla to Florida, so she can swim with dolphins. Les and Yana sit in a bath full of mushy peas, raising £600. Cilla admits that she lied about the cancer, leaving the family devastated. Cilla travels to Florida alone, leaving Les to apologise to their friends and neighbours.\n\nWhen Cilla returns, she slaps Yana and reunites with Les. A few months later, Les leaves to work as a roadie for a tribute band called \"ZZ Top O' The Mornin'\", and Cilla is sacked from her job at Wong's Chippy; where she blames Jodie Morton (Samantha Seager). Cilla struggles financially and takes a job at a nursing home, where she meets a wealthy man, Frank Nicholls (Keith Clifford). Frank is a perfect match for Cilla, as he is just as ruthless as she is. Frank tells Cilla that he needs a full-time carer and he invites Cilla to go with him to Las Vegas. When Frank dies, Cilla believes that she will inherit everything, but is disappointed when she is left just £500 in Frank's will. Cilla decides to sell a necklace that Frank had given her, and is surprised to learn that it is worth £45,000. Cilla then decides to leave the country. Chesney, Fiz and Kirk later visit Cilla in South Africa, leading to the events of \"Out of Africa\".\n\nIn October 2014, Cilla returns to the street to visit Fiz and Chesney. It is revealed that she is now living in Wolverhampton. She later reveals to Sinead Tinker (Katie McGlynn), Chesney's girlfriend, that she is suffering from osteoporosis, and she swears her to secrecy. Her family aren't too pleased to see her when she arrives, as they believe that she is up to something due to her mischevious past. She later leaves the street on the bus, but once Fiz and Chesney find out about their mother's illness from Sinead they later try to find her, invite her back and apologise but by that point, she had already gone.\n\nOn 17 September 2003, it was announced that former \"Bad Girls\" actress Wendi Peters would be joining \"Coronation Street\" playing the character of Cilla Brown, mother of Fiz Brown (Jennie McAlpine) and a love interest for Les Battersby (Bruce Jones). A spokesperson told the \"Daily Mirror\": \"Les is like a born-again teenager with Cilla and becomes very defensive of her. He believes she is definitely the woman for him and acts the perfect gentleman with her in an effort to be a romantic. He starts to behave so unlike Les by opening doors for her and insisting they link arms whenever they are out together. But just when everything seems to be running smoothly there is a bolt from the blue.\"\n\nIn May 2004, it was announced that an upcoming storyline featuring Cilla marrying Les later in the year. A source for the \"News of the World\" revealed: \"It all started as a joke at a boozy party after the British Soap Awards, but at the ideas meeting this week, the bosses realised what a great idea it was. Any scene with calls for Les and Cilla in wedding gear will be classic Corrie.\"\n\nOn 18 January 2007, Peters announced she would be leaving \"Coronation Street\". On her decision to leave the role, Peters said \"I've had a brilliant four years at \"Coronation Street\". It's been filled with wonderful experiences and great opportunities. \"I feel very privileged to have been given the fantastic character of Cilla and I shall really miss her. I'm looking forward to spending a bit more time with my families and pursuing and working on other projects.\" Producer Steve Frost said \"Wendi is a valued member of the cast and she has made the character of Cilla one of the most colourful and memorable characters in soap history. We totally understand her reasons for wanting to leave and are grateful that she has given us so much notice – this means that we can spend time writing an exit storyline which will do her and the character of Cilla justice.\" Cilla made her final appearance on 12 October 2007. Peters later reprised the role for a DVD spin-off in November 2008.\n\nOn 26 June 2014, it was announced Peters would reprise her role for six weeks. Her return storyline was not immediately revealed, but it will help to facilitate McAlpine's maternity leave. Peters commented \"I'm really thrilled to have the opportunity to revisit Cilla and the cobbles for a short while and to see what she has been up to for the last 7 years.\" Cilla made her on-screen return on 22 October. It was later announced that Cilla would be hiding the fact that she has osteoporosis from her family.\n\n"}
{"id": "10335449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10335449", "title": "Cord (film)", "text": "Cord (film)\n\nCord (also released as Hide and Seek) is a 2000 thriller film directed by Sidney J. Furie and starring Daryl Hannah, Jennifer Tilly, Bruce Greenwood, and Vincent Gallo.\n\nAfter struggling with infertility, Anne (Daryl Hannah) finally succeeds in getting pregnant through invitro fertilization with her husband Jack (Bruce Greenwood). However, one night, Anne awakens to discover a masked intruder in her room. Terrified, Anne tries to escape, but the intruder chloroforms her into unconsciousness, rendering her helpless as he kidnaps her and takes her to an isolated house.\n\nIn the morning, Anne finds herself held captive by a couple named Frank (Vincent Gallo) and Helen (Jennifer Tilly). Helen has gone mad after her baby was aborted by Frank upon learning that it would have been born deformed. The procedure left her sterile, and he is now attempting to make it up to her by giving her Anne's baby. Anne recognizes Frank as a technician at her fertility clinic, and Helen later tells her that he secretly replaced her fertilized egg with one of Helen's instead. Frank stages a car accident with a horribly burned body to make everyone believe Anne is dead; Jack refuses to accept it and pressures the police to continue investigating, but after several months they dismiss his ideas.\n\nAfter dealing with several escape attempts, Frank finds himself frustrated both with Helen's bipolar insanity and her refusal to have sex with him while she is \"pregnant\", and he attempts to force himself on Anne before being interrupted by Helen. Frank chases Anne outdoors while Helen terrorizes a diaper service saleswoman. Subsequently Frank attempts a forcible amniocentesis, against Helen's wishes, and during the argument he lets it slip that he never switched her eggs. Helen snaps and kills and cooks Frank's body. Her increasing madness leads her to threaten Anne with a caesarean section, and Anne finally manages to escape. She calls Jack from a nearby phone booth, but Helen runs it down with her truck in the middle of the call. Although she chases and shoots at Anne, Anne cuts her face with broken glass and runs, collapsing on the roadside where she is found by a local teenager.\n\nThe police still refuse to believe Jack's story, even after seeing the damage to the phone booth, so Jack travels to the house Anne described, only to be ambushed by Helen with a baseball bat. Helen then kills a nurse at the hospital and again kidnaps Anne to force her into having the baby. Helen decides to allow her to have a natural birth rather than a C-section, but Anne manages to break free, and after a violent struggle she wraps one of her chains around Helen's neck and strangles her. Helen rises up for one final shot but misses and dies. As the police take Helen's body away, Anne emerges from the house with Jack and her new baby.\n\nNathan Rabin from The A.V. Club gave the film a very bad review, stating: \"Director Sidney J. Furie's (Ladybugs, Iron Eagle 4) latest is bereft of suspense, but so full of embarrassing low points that it's impossible to single out just one. Who could choose between seeing Hannah force-fed against her will through a tube and watching Tilly yell at the grotesque doll baby she's attached to her stomach to simulate pregnancy? For that matter, who could choose between Gallo forcing a very-pregnant Hannah to run in front of his tractor as exercise and Tilly threatening to perform a makeshift caesarian on Hannah with a pair of sharp scissors? It all adds up to one of the most deeply unpleasant films in recent memory, ineptly executed schlock that's as fun to watch as videotaped footage of terrified real-life hostages blankly reiterating their captors' demands.\" \"Mitch\" from \"The Video Vacuum\" gave it two stars and wrote: \"Hide and Seek has a solid enough premise. It's just that the script plays all its cards too soon and things fizzle out long before the finale. Fans of Tilly will want to check it out just to see her do her thing, but all in all, it's not worth seeking out.\"\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, \"Cord\" currently holds 39% of audience aprovation.\n"}
{"id": "27565012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27565012", "title": "Crash Magazine", "text": "Crash Magazine\n\nCrash Magazine is a French independent magazine published biannually that features articles on women's fashion.\n\n\"Crash Magazine\" was founded in 1998 by Frank Perrin and Armelle Leturcq; art critics before publishing \"Crash\", Perrin and Leturcq had previously published an art review known as \"Blocnotes\". They are both considered part of the new generation of French art critics that left a mark in the 1990s. The magazine is published biannually.\n\nFrancois Bizot, the founder of \"L'Actuel\" has mentioned that the creation of this publication revolutionized the landscape of French press.\n\n\"Crash\" arrived on the French market characterized with an element of the unexpected, filled with a deliberate desire to change things: characterized by a minimalist layout and design, it is constituted by challenging avant-garde visuals seeking to emphasize the beauty of things with innovative ideas. \"Crash\" worked in close relation with artists such as Air, Daft Punk, Abel Ferrara, Larry Clark, Jared Leto, Michel Gondry during the emergence of the \"French Touch\". Since 2000, however, they have shifted their focus towards the \"New Generation\" such as Sofia Coppola, Phoenix and Super Discount.\n\n\"Crash\" quickly started to gain the attention of high-end luxury brands such as Chanel and Christian Dior, who looked to revamp their image and attract a younger public, something \"Crash\" was able to provide.\n\n\"Crash Magazine\" has been considered a platform for rising talent and new artists and its team is internationally recognized. This publication focuses on fashion and cinema among other things, fashion representing a cultural phenomenon of society and everything that is driven by it in our time. \"Crash\" has been recognized as the only French publication that dares to mix high-end fashion with urban culture, representing the image of a new generation of consumers that has recently emerged.\n\n\"Crash\" enjoys a circulation of 80,000, also publishing an English version sold internationally. The average reader (20–45 years old) sees \"Crash\" as a reference point that explores the fresh and upcoming trends, styles, culture and lifestyle.\n\nAfter its 12 years of existence, \"Crash Magazine\" has developed its reputation and credibility without compromising its foundations, becoming in this way, a major reference in French press.\n\n"}
{"id": "2418529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2418529", "title": "Creative professional", "text": "Creative professional\n\nA creative professional who is also known as a creative specialist is a person who is employed for the extraction of skills in creative endeavors. Creative professions include writing, art, design, theater, television, radio, motion pictures, related crafts, as well as marketing, strategy, scientific research and development, product development, engineering, some types of teaching and curriculum design, and more. Since many creative professionals (actors and writers, for example) are also employed in secondary professions, estimates of creative professionals are often inaccurate. By some estimates, approximately 10 million US workers are creative professionals; depending upon the depth and breadth of the definition, this estimate may be doubled.\n\nAlthough creative professionals have been a part of the workforce for more than 500 years, several events during the past decade have altered industry and public perception of these workers.\n\nThe change in status began in the late 1990s when demand for creative workers was high due to the internet boom. Creative workers found that their talents in graphic and interactive design were valuable, and so, the workers began to develop independent cultures in select cities throughout the world, notably San Francisco, New York City and Boston. Some smaller cities, such as Austin and Portland also became centers where creative people found abundant opportunity. This trend has been documented in author Richard Florida's book, The Creative Class.\n\nAs the creative workforce has evolved in the post-dot.com era, creative workers have continued to flourish. Daniel H. Pink's book \"A Whole New Mind\" describes the transition in American business from information age to conceptual age. Pink describes information-era jobs as expendable and exportable, and offers that the MFA may yield more value for newer American workers than the MBA might generate in today's economy.\n\nThe Creative Professional, by Howard Blumenthal, describes the phenomenon from yet another perspective: that of the individual worker now emerging as a serious business professional with specific skills on par with lawyers, accountants, doctors, and other workers who are perceived to be within a special class. The book describes the unique business and career issues for the individual creative worker.\n\nTo date, most of the information about this growing phenomenon exists in book form. Many of the ideas and mechanisms are related to changes in copyright law, as described by Lawrence Lessig and Creative Commons.\n\nUniversity education for creative professionals is often presented under older definitions of music, art, and related disciplines, but the processes related to creative thought, particularly as they apply to work, are found in books about cognitive psychology. Author and cognitive thinking researcher Howard Gardner has defined a variety of intelligences related to creative workers. Psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi has described the process of creative work effectively in several books, including Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience. Professors in Business have also started to explore the success factors for creative professionals including Harvard Business School Professor Teresa Amabile who has studied and published research on creative professionals like author John Irving among others.\n\nCorporate research and the development of products and services specifically for creative professionals has started to crop up as companies hire increasing numbers of creative professionals to compete on innovation. Recent changes to corporate slogans are indicative of the trend. In 2003, GE's slogan changed from \"We Bring Good Things To Life\" to \"Imagination at Work\" and Hewlett Packard adopted the slogan \"Invent.\"\n\nCreativity, such as poetic creativity, has been an area of fascination for many ancient traditions. For example, Nasadiya Sukta the Hindu creation hymn states \"Poets found the bond of being in non-being in their heart's thought, but who really knows how creation happened?\".\n\n"}
{"id": "26336608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26336608", "title": "Dance Research", "text": "Dance Research\n\nDance Research is a twice-yearly academic journal founded in 1982. It is published by Edinburgh University Press on behalf of the Society for Dance Research in Spring and Autumn each year. Each issue contains articles, as well as book reviews and review essays.\n"}
{"id": "37807141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37807141", "title": "David Kirby (activist)", "text": "David Kirby (activist)\n\nDavid Lawrence Kirby (December 6, 1957 – May 5, 1990) was an American HIV/AIDS activist, and the subject of a photograph taken at his deathbed by Therese Frare. The image was published in \"Life\" magazine, which called it the \"picture that changed the face of AIDS\".\n\nThe image shows Kirby, near death, a vacant look in his face, and his father holding his son's head in a moment of grief. Other members of Kirby's immediate family are seated next to him. \"Life\" featured the image in its November 1990 issue, after which it gained first national and then international attention. The picture was later used by United Colors of Benetton in an advertising campaign, with the permission of Kirby's family, who felt that its use would show the devastating effects of AIDS.\n\nWhile a patient at Pater Noster, Kirby established a relationship with Therese Frare, a college student from Ohio University. Frare was at Pater Noster for college project credit shadowing a caregiver, named Peta, who was providing care to Kirby. Peta was also HIV positive and formed a strong bond of trust with Kirby and Kirby's family. Because of the relationship between Peta and Frare, Kirby became familiar with Frare. He said that Frare could photograph him in his declining condition, as long as the pictures would not be used for profit.\n\nFrare was with Peta when co-workers contacted Peta with the news that Kirby's condition was growing worse and that his impending death was expected. Kirby's family invited Frare into the room to record the final moments of his life and their grief at his death. The family said that they hoped some good would come of the images Frare took of the final moments of their son's life.\n\nWhen published by \"Life\", the image shocked the national conscience in the United States with its graphic imagery. While the public knew that AIDS killed, many only knew of its effects in the abstract. AIDS was still thought to be a \"gay\" disease and much of populace was relatively uninformed about the disease. The image also helped the greater public to connect to the family's grief at losing their son. \"Life\" received complaints about the graphic nature of the image, but felt that it was in line with the magazine's mission of telling a story of life and death through visual imagery.\n\nFrare's image also won the 2nd prize in 1990, for General News from World Press Photo.\n\nFollowing the \"Life\" publication, the Kirby family allowed the clothing company United Colors of Benetton to use the image in a 1992 advertising campaign, feeling that its story would reach a worldwide audience. Fallout from the campaign came from many sources, including the Catholic Church which felt that the image was an inappropriate allusion to the historical imagery of the Virgin Mary cradling Jesus Christ after the crucifixion.\n\nIn 2012, Frare told \"Life\" that David's father Bill Kirby expressed the family's feelings on the use of the picture by United Colors of Benetton when he told her \"Listen, Therese. Benetton didn’t use us, or exploit us. We used them. Because of them, your photo was seen all over the world, and that’s exactly what David wanted.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "59100609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59100609", "title": "French Romanesque architecture", "text": "French Romanesque architecture\n\nRomanesque architecture appeared in France at the end of the 10th century, with the development of feudal society and the rise and spread of monastic orders, particularly the Dominicans, who which built many important abbeys and monasteries in the style. It continued to dominate religious architecture until the appearance of French Gothic architecture in the Ile-de-France between about 1140-1150.\n\nDistinctive features of French romansque architecture include thick walls with small windows, rounded arches; a long nave covered with barrel vaults; and the use of the groin vault at the intersection of two barrel vaults, all supported by massive columns; a level of tribunes above the galleries on the ground floor, and small windows above the tribunes; and rows of exterior buttresses supporting the walls. Churches commonly had a cupola over the transept, supported by four adjoining arches; one or more large square towers, and a semi-circular apse with radiating small chapels. Decoration usually included very ornate sculpted capitals on columns and an elaborate semi-circular sculpted tympanum, usually illustrating the Last Judgement, over the main portal. Interior decoration often included murals covering the walls, colored tiles, and early stained glass windows. Late in the 12th century, the rib vault began to appear, particularly in churches in Normandy and Paris, introducing the transition to the Gothic style. \n\nAt the beginning of the eleventh century, inspired by the appearance of the style in northern Italy, Romanesque architecture spread west across southern France as far as Catalonia and Spain, and then north up the valley of the Rhone River. In the early Romanesque period, churches followed the traditional form of a Roman basilica, particularly the plan of the Byzantine Basilica of San Vitale in Ravenna. They had a single long nave, usually without a transept, which ended in a hemispherical apse. They usually had at least one bell tower, sometimes separated from the Nave. \n\nIn the later Romanesque period, in the last third of the 11th century, new building techniques were introduced which allowed taller and wider churches. Two new plans became common. The first was the Benedictine plan, used in Cluny Abbey and the other new Benedictine monasteries. It featured featured three naves, with a transept at the crossing, and ranks of small chapels on either side of the apse on the east end. A modified plan appeared in the new abbeys and churches designed to welcome pilgrims traveling to shrines in Spain. These new churches were designed to accommodate large numbers of visitors, and included an ambulatory, or walkway, leading to several small chapels radiating in a semicircle from the apse. The ambulatory allowed visitors to easily access any of the chapels, without disturbing the service in the nave. They often had multiple towers over the entrance and wings of the transept, and sometimes a dome over the crossing point of the transept and nave. Saint-Front de Périgueux, modeled after St Mark's Basilica in Venice, is an example. \n\nRounded arches were the most common and most distinctive feature of the Romanesque style, though near the end of the period, pointed arches began to appear, particularly in Normandy. Builders began to experiment with vaulted ceilings, first in the crypt below the church, and then in the nave. The earliest types were the simple barrel vault, which rested upon rows of massive columns. Later churches used the \"voute d'arête\" or groin vault, two barrel vaults combined at right angles, which were stronger but required great skill to construct. Later in the period, the \"voute en berceau briséé\" or rib vault was introduced, which carried the thrust of the weight of the roof outwards and downwards, through thin ribs, to supporting columns and buttresses. \n\nAs the naves became higher and higher, with the weight pressing down and outward on the walls, the walls had to be supported by massive masonry buttresses on the outside. Because of the need for thick, solid walls, the windows were few and small in size. The ground floor had rows of massive columns, which supported the vaults of the roof. The walls were divided by thin colonettes, which also provided support to the roof. \n\nThe domes were either supported by an octagonal base (\"Sur trompes\") or a circular base (\"Sur pendentifs\"), composed of barrel arches meeting at right angles. \n\nThe six-part rib vault, a key innovation in the transition to Gothic architecture, had been introduced in England in about 1100, and made its first appearance in France in the reconstruction of the naves of the The church of the Abbey of Saint-Étienne, Caen The Abbey of Sainte-Trinité, Caen, in about 1120. It also appeared in Burgundy and in an experimental version at the Abbey of Vezelay at about the same time. These vaults allowed ceilings that were lighter and stronger, and carried the weight outwards to columns and buttresses, so the supporting walls could be higher and thinner, with larger windows. \nThe walls were divided into vertical sections, separated by thin columns of \"colonettes\" which supported the vaults of the roof. The ground level of the nave was usually flanked by columned arcades. These were usually surmounted by tribunes, or a galleries, where the faithful could gather to watch the ceremony in the nave below. The level above the tribune usually had a row of windows bringing light into the interior. \n\nThe tribunes provided greater width and support to the wall, which meant that churches could be higher. In some churches in the Auvergne region, the tribune rose up two levels, which meant that little light came into the nave. In Normandy, the tribune was often replaced by a \"Triforium\", a narrow walkway. In Aquitaine, the churches had a single wide nave, which allowed more light to enter. Taller churches required heavy stone buttresses placed against the exterior walls to support the weight of the roof. This problem was not resolved until the Gothic period, when the introduction of the rib vault transferred the weight of the roof to the flying buttresses outside the walls. \n\nThe exterior decoration of the early Romanesque churches was simple, usually composed of vertical stripes of carved stone joined at the top by a band of simple arcs (\"bandes lombardes\"); or a \"frieze\" of arcs, and, at the \"chevet,\" a series of toothlike niches. The columns often had cubic carved capitals. Exterior decoration was usually either either vegetal, such as carved acanthus leaves or palm fronds, or geometric forms. Occasionally sculpture with simplified human forms with biblical texts appeared on the lintels.\n\nHowever, with the construction of new abbeys and pilgrimage churches, the facades became much more theatrical. The Facade of the Église Notre-Dame la Grande, Poitiers is one of the best surviving examples of a Romanesque pilgrimage church facade. It does not have a sculpted tympanum over its portal; instead, the whole facade serves as a theater of biblical scenes; a frieze of sculptures over the portals represents the stories of the original sin and redemption; a multitude of small sculptures around the doors depicts fabulous animals and other biblical themes. \nThe Portal, or entrance of the Romanesque church received the most elaborate and dramatic sculptural decoration. It was designed as the \"Porta Coeli\" or \"Doorway to heaven\", a depiction of biblical stories and images in stone, which in earlier churches had been shown on the sculpture of the altar. The usual themes of the portal were the Biblical Day of Judgement, promising Redemption for good Christians, and the Apocalypse for the others. Each church was different; at Moissac. the figure of Christ was surrounded by the four Evangelists, and the group was encircled by the twenty-four figures of the Apocalypse. The portal of Toulouse cathedral featured the Ascension of Christ, while the Abbey Church of Saint Foy illustrated the contrasts between hell and the virtuous life of Saint Foy.\n\nWhile the portals of cathedrals traditionally faced west, on Romanesque churches they often were oriented toward the main street or square of the town. In the Cathedral of Cahors it faced north, onto the ancient main street; in Toulouse and Moissiac it faced south, onto the street that led to the center of the town.\n\nOne of the most famous sculptural works of the French Romanesque period is Moissac Abbey, a modest-sized abbey which had been a dependency of Cluny since 1047. It was commissioned by the Abbot Roger between 1115 and 1131. It is 5.63 meters in diameter, and is composed of twenty-eight blocks of stone, which were sculpted and then assembled. It depicts the Apocalypse as described in the Bible by Saint John. Christ is seated on a throne in the center, surrounded by a lion, a bull, an eagle in flight, and a human face, which in turn surrounded by twenty-eight seated wise men, who will make the Last Judgement. \n\nBell towers and domes were another distinctive feature of the Romanesque. In the early monastery churches the bell tower Was often separate from the church. \nIn the later period, large abbey churches, like Cluny, had two towers at the portal end, a tower where the transept crossed the nave, and towers on the ends of transept. \n\nThe main domes or cupolas were usually placed at crossing of the nave and the transept, and symbolized the heavens. They were often supported by four arches forming a square and supported by four massive pillars' which symbolically represented the four Evangelists, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. The pillars held up a \"Voûte d'arêtes\", or cross vault, where the barrels vaults of the nave and transept met at right angles. The curving triangular surfaces of these vaults, which joined the six or eight sides of the cupoloa to the four pillars, were called squinches', or pendentives, and were often decorated with the faces of the Four Evangelists, who were considered the symbolic link between the heavens and earth, or with angels or other Biblical figures. \n\nThe Romaneque style in France developed first in the south of France, particularly in the provinces bordering on Catalonia. Among the best surviving examples are the church and cloister of the Abbey of Saint-Michel de Cuxa, built between 956 and 974. Churches in this region followed the plan of a basilica, with a small or no transept, They were built of massive stones, with little or no decoration on the interior walls. The bells were usually located in a separate tower, decorated with Lombard bands. The cloister of Saint-Michel de Cuxa, built in the 12th century, features columns of rose-colored marble and carved capitals in vegetal and animal shapes on the columns. \n\nAround the year 1000, The architects of the abbeys in Burgundy began experimenting with different forms of vaulted ceilings, at first largely to avoid the danger of fires on the wooden roofs. The church of the Benedictine Abbey of Saint-Philibert de Tournus was an early example. The nave was covered by transversal barrel vaults, perpendicular to the axis of the nave, supported by rows of columns. The weight of the roof pressed down on the columns, not on the walls, This meant that the walls could be thinner, and could have larger windows, filling the church with more light.\n\nReligious orders played a particularly important role in the development of the Romanesque style. The reorganization of the Catholic Church under Louis the Pious (813-840), and the foundation of the first monastery under the rules of Saint Benedict (817), brought about important changes in religious practices and architecture. The Benedictine Abbey of Cluny, founded in 909 by William of Aquitaine, was the center of a resurgence of religious activity. In France, by the end of the 11th century, there were 815 monastic houses, and more than ten thousand monks, under the authority of the Abbot of Cluny. The flourishing of the monasteries reached a peak summit under Pope Gregory VII (1073-1085).\n\nCluny Abbey was the largest and most influential of the monasteries in France, both in doctrine and in architecture. The Abbot Hugues de Cluny (1049-1109) decided to reconstruct and enlarge the original Abbey, including the Abbatiale, or Abbey church. The new Abbatiale was completed in 1130. The new church was 187 meters long, and designed to accommodate two hundred and fifty monks. It contained a double transept, an avant-nave on the west, and on the east a chevet with a disambulatoire passage which gave access to five radiating chapels. The nave itself was immense, covered with a vaulted ceiling 10.85 meter wide and 25 meters high. The elevation of the nave had three levels; the windows on the upper levels brought light into the interior. It was crowned by five towers, the largest over the crossing of grand transept, two on either side of the entrance to the avant-nave, and two on the arms of the transept. Its gigantic proportions were not surpassed until the reconstruction of Saint Peter's Basilica in Rome in the 16th century.\n\nCluny Abbey was almost entirely destroyed during and after the French Revolution; the stones were reused in buildings across the region. The only remaining structures are the two towers of the avant-nave, and the bell tower on the south wing of the grand transept. Eight percent of the original structure remains today.\n\nThe Cistercian monastic order was created by Saint Bernard of Clairvaux in 1098; its first monastery was Cîteaux Abbey. Its principal doctrines were defined by Saint Benedict as separation from society, working for the necessities of life, and the refusal of anything unneeded for the first two. The architecture of the new monasteries was designed to comply with these rules. The monasteries were built as far as possible from cities. The monks lived in unadorned buildings constructed around a cloister, isolated from the outside world and from other parts of the monastery. The monks had individual cells, each with three small rooms; The \"Ave Maria\" for prayer; a second room with a desk and an alive for a bed; and a third room for a workshop. Each later had its own garden. A second building contained the common areas for the monks; a church, the cloister, the capitulary or meeting room; the kitchen and dining room. A third building was added for converts who were not monks, but who wanted to share the monastic life. The order expanded to five monasteries; in France: Citeaux Abbey, Clairvaux Abbey, Morimond Abbey, Pontigny Abbey, and La Ferté Abbey. These five became the \"Mother houses\" for new Cistercian monasteries across the European continent and in England. After the death of Saint Bernard in 1153, the standard church architecture was modified; the hemispherical or square sanctuary of the church was replaced by a \"chevet\" with an ambulatory to pass from chapel to chapel.\n\nIn the second period of Romanesque, beginning in the last third of the 11th century, many romanesque churches in France were built along the pilgrimage routes that Santiago de Compostela in Spain, where the reputed relics of Saint James the Great were displayed. With the fall of Jerusalem under Islamic rule, the route to Santiago de Compostela became one of the two most important pilgrimage routes in Europe, beside the pilgrimage to the tomb of Saint Peter in Rome. Churches along the route, included the Saint-Foy-de-Conques, were designed to provide space for large numbers of worshippers. The large pilgrimage churches featured a deambulatoire or columned passage around the choir, providing access to a series of small chapels. Another smaller notable church on the route was the Abbey of Saint-Nectaire in Puy-de-Dôme, begun in 1080. \nAnother feature of the later Romanesque churches was greater height. These churches had a tribune or gallery on the level above the ground floor, where worshippers could look down into the Nave. The tribune provided greater stability and support for the high roof. In the Auvergne, the churches added another level; above the gallery there was another level of vaulted tribunes. These churches had great height but little light penetrated into the nave. In other regions, such as Poitou, the tribunes and arcades were replaced by high windows bringing light directly into the nave.\n\nThe Romanesque style made its first appearance in Paris with the construction of the Abbey of Saint-Germain-des-Pres. The nave was constructed between 990 and 1160, and the tower, with a high chapel on its ground floor, was built between 990 and 1014. The western portion of nave was constructed between 990 and 1160. The choir, in the center of the church, begun in 1145, was built in the new Gothic style, pioneered at the Abbey of Saint Denis. \n\nOther Romanesque churches in Paris include Saint-Martin-des-Champs Priory(1060-1147). The surviving buildings of the monastery now house the Musée des Arts et Métiers of Paris. The walls of choir and chapels of the church are supported by early buttresses, and it features a Romanesque bell tower. The Church of Saint-Pierre de Montmartre (1147-1200), just below the top of the hill of Montmartre, was one of the first buildings in Paris, after the Abbey of Saint-Denis, to install rib vaults, which launched the transition from the Romanesque to the Gothic.\n\nThe Romanesque style varied from region to region, largely in response to the materials available. In Brittany, the local granite stone was very dense and too heavy for most roof structures; architects often preferred to cover the vaults with wood instead of stone. An example is the ceiling of the Abbatiale of the Abbey of Mont-San Michel.\n\nThe use of wooden vaulted ceilings instead of stone allowed the construction of taller and longer churches; the nave of Saint-Melanie of Rennes is more than eighty meters long and ten meters high particularly at the crossing of the transept, the oldest part of the church. Romanesque churches in Normandy often featured narrow tribunes and wide bays, which gave greater space to the interior.\n\nThe most notable Norman romaneque monuments are the two former abbey churches in Caen, both of which were remarkable for the height of their ceilings and their towers. They were both founded by William the Conqueror and constructed at the same time. The church of the Abbey of Saint-Étienne, Caen also known as the Abbey aux Hommes, was built by William the Conquerer as the main church of the Abbey of Saint Stephen. The nave was constructed in about 1060-1065, and the twin towers in about 1120. The Abbey of Sainte-Trinité, Caen, known as the Abbey aux Femmes, was built at the same time for the Abbey of the Holy Trinity, but in a slightly different style. \n\nThe construction of the two abbey churches saw the introduction of an important architectural innovation; a ceiling with an early form of rib vaults, used in both The Abbaye des Dames and the Abbaye des Hommes. The roof of the choir of the Abbaye des Dames was very high, eight meters, and in about 1100 to 1110 it began to show signs of weakness and was demolished, It was replaced in about 1120 by a rib vault, among the earliest in France, which allowed a lighter and stronger roof, and which permitted larger windows at the high level. Along with the very early experimental rib vaults at Vezelay Abbey and in Burgundy, this was one of the first rib vaults in France, and a notable predecessor of Gothic Architecture. \n\nThe development of sculpture in Romanesque France was closely connected with architecture. The earliest sculptural decorations on altars and the interior surfaces of churches, on lintels, over doorways and particularly on the capitals of columns, which were commonly adorned with images of biblical figures and real or mythical animals. Most of the work was almost flat with little attempt at realism. Some of the earliest Romanesque sculpture in France is found at Saint-Génis-des-Fontaines Abbey (1019-1020) in the eastern Pyrenees. A lintel over a doorway portrays Christ on a throne, in a frame supported by two angels, and flanked by the apostles, The forms of th apostles are defined by the shapes of the arches into which they are squeezed. \n\nIn the later Romanesque period, sculpture was often used to at the most important points, such as the facades, to emphasize the lines of the structure. It often used geometric designs (circles, squares, triangles). Spaces were crowded with figures, which were often contorted so they seemed to be dancing. . The sculpture was most profuse on the capitals of columns and on the portals, where it was used to present very complex and extended biblical stories. Sculptors also depicted a large number of animals, both real and imaginary, including chimeras, sirens, lions, and a wide range of monsters. Imagination usually prevailed over realism. \n\nSome of the most remarkable sculpture is found on the tympanum and the capitals of the columns of the cloister of Moissac Abbey in Mossac, Tarne-et-Garonne, and the columns of the in Souillac in the Lot Department; and Saint-Philibert de Tournus Abbey in Burgundy. \nAnother remarkable group of Romanesque sculpture is found in the decoration of the Basilica of Saint-Sernin, Toulouse in Toulouse, dating to the late 11th and early 12th century. The figures are much more realistic, and make skillful use of shadows and light to bring out the details. One of the most remarkable works is the altar table, signed by its sculptor, Bernardus Geldvinus. He also made the seven sculptural reliefs found in the ambulatory of the cathedral. \n\nIn the middle and late 12th century, the sculptural decoration became much more realistic, detailed, and finely sculpted. Notable examples are the facade of the west portal of the Church of St. Trophime, Arles from the end of the 12th century, decorated with stately figures of the apostles, and the capitals of the double columns in the cloister, each one different, illustrating psrsonages from the Bible. third of the 12th century, The sculpture at Arles demonstrates the extent to which Romanesque had become an international style. The left side of the west portal of the Church of St. Trophime, Arles (late 12th century) depicts the Apocalypse according to Saint John. The use of sculpted lions' heads to support the pilasters is borrowed from Italy, and a number of the figures on the capitals in the cloister, illustrating the Three Kings and the flight from Egypt, were made by Benedetto Antelami, one of the master Romanesque sculptors of Italy.\n\nVézelay Abbey is also famous for its rich and complex tympanum, sheltered within the large porch of the church. Its theme is the Pentecost, with biblical stories, and how the message of Christ was being spread to the different peoples of the world, as well as images of the mythical creatures who were believed to live at the edges of the world. It was made in tn th 12th century, when Vezelay was considered an important intellectual center. under one of its Abbots, Peter the Venerable. Another famous tympani is that of the Abbey Church of Saint Foy, in Conques, in which some one hundred characters are depicted in vivid scenes from the Last Judgement. \n\nThe interiors of French Romanesque churches were filled with color, including paintings on the walls and ceiling, mosaics on the floor, and, late in the period, early stained glass windows. The exceptions were the abbeys of the Cistercians, which contained no decoration at all. Most of the murals were destroyed in the 18th and 19th century, when it was felt that a bare stone wall was more appropriate for a church interior. Two different techniques were usually used; either a fresco, painted while the plaster was still wet with paint diluted with water; or \"détrempe\", painted the pigments mixed with a binder, such as an oil or eggwhite, and painted on dry plaster. Often both techniques were used, with the large designs painted as a fresco, and the details \"détremps\". The work required rapid execution. The subjects were chosen by the Church hierarchy, not by the artists, and the names of the artists, in most cases, remained unknown. \n\nThe walls of Romanesque churches were rarely left bare. Many Romanesque church interiors were painted with cycles of illustrations of Biblical stores. Sometimes the topics were of local interest; the paintings at Saint-Martin-de-Vic illustrate how the monks of Tours stole relics from the Monastery of Poitiers. The paintings were not limited to the interiors, and often also covered the tympanums capitals, and other exterior decoration. The sculpture in the interior was also commonly painted. Wooden church ceilings, common before the wide use of rib arches, were also usually painted. An early example of a painted church is Berzé-la-Ville, where the paintings on the ceiling of the Chapel of the Monks depict the moment that Christ gave the apostles Peter and Paul the messages to spread to the world. \n\nOne of the most important existing examples of a painted French Romanesque church is Abbey Church of Saint-Savin-sur-Gartempe in Poitou. It was founded in the 9th century over the tombs of the Christian martyrs Sabinus of Spoleto and Saint Cyprian, and in the Middle Ages became a major pilgrimage church. Beginning in about 1100, the church was enlarged and entirely painted inside, from the crypt to the ceiling, The faux-marble of the columns in the nave were also painted.{ The architecture of the church. including the placement of the arches and vaults, was designed to make the paintings, the main attraction, more easily visible. \n\nColored or encrusted floor were another form of decoration, assembled into mosaics and geometric designs on floors or walls. The most common tiles were simple baked earth, given a reddish color by iron oxide, mixed with tiles colored yellow by litharge, a form of lead oxide. Darker or lighter colored tiles were made by varying the time of baking. Usually only two colors were used, to give greater harmony. \n\nOne of the most notable early examples is the tile floor surrounding the tomb of King Philip I of France, in Fleury Abbey in Saint-Benoit-sur-Loire One of the most famous late examples is the Church of Saint-Pierre-sur-Dives in Calvados, Normandy (13th century). The floor of the nave has a circular design design three meters in diameter, made of colorful tiles in concentric circles. alternating yellow on black with black on yellow. The tiles are illustrated with deer, lizards, chimeras, and two-headed eagles, along with flour-des-lys and palmettes. \n\nThe art of making stained glass had been used to make colored glass goblets, bottles, and lamps as early as the 8th century. Early glass window panes appeared in Syria and Egypt in the 8th century, and in France under the Emperor Charlemagne. The earliest glass windows were clear to give maximum light, since the windows were small and the church interiors were already very dark. Clear glass windows appeared during the Romanesque period in the Abbeys of the Cistercians, at Bonlieu Abbey in the Creuse, Aubazine in Correze, Saint Serge in Angers, and others. The glass was very thin, no more than half a centimeter, and very fragile. It was also very difficult to cut, since the use of diamonds to cut glass had not been discovered; glass was cut with heated irons. Cobalt oxide was used to make a fine deep blue, green and red from copper, purple from manganese, and yellow from iron and manganese. \n\nAn important development took place in the 11th century, when wooden frames were replaced by frames of lead, which allowed more varied designs and pieces of many different sizes. Very early stained glass windows were in place at the Abbey of Monte Casino in Italy in 1071. The earliest known stained glass window in France is a head of Christ from the 11th century, which was originally in the Abbey of Wissembourg. \n\nOne of the earliest stained glass windows installed in France was the Crucifixion window of Poitiers Cathedral, put in place in The installation of new stained glass windows by the Abbot Suger in the choir of the Abbey of Saint-Denis in the mid-12th century was one of the decisive steps of the transition from the Romaneque to the Gothic style. Thereafter, stained glass, not murals, became the most prominent decorative element of French cathedrals. \nThe Romanesque period saw important innovations in military architecture, particularly the development of strong stone-walled keeps and castles. Previously, the residences of nobles and fortifications had usually been built of wooden walls or earthen palisades. The frequency of invasions and wars, and the improvements in siege engines, made it necessary to build stronger fortresses of stone. Only the nobles of the highest level were permitted by the King to build fortified residences. The new castles of the nobility were not only military defenses, but also symbols of the rank and power of the nobles.\n\nThe typical castles of this period had a high tower, called a \"donjon\" or keep, usually surrounded by a lower wall, called a shell keep. The earliest were rectangual, but were usually replaced by a round or octagonal tower. The earliest surviving vestiges are at Doué le Fontaine in Maine-et-Loire (about 950). and Langeais (about 1017) \n\nThe Caesar Tower in Provins from the beginning of the 12th century, has an octagonal tower flanked by four semi-circular towers, all placed on top of a stone platform seventeen meters by seventeen meters. A walkway midway up the main tower gives access to the corner towers. The whole structure is surrounded by another wall, the shell keep, on the ground level. \n\nThe largest and most powerful castle of the period was the original Louvre in Paris, begun in about 1200 by King Philip II of France, and completed in the 13th century. Only the massive foundations remain; they are visible on the ground floor under the Louvre Museum. The sprawling uins of another castle from this period, Druyes-les-Belles-Fontaines, begun in 1200, can be found in the Yonne Department. \nOnly a small amount of urban architecture from the period remains, and many of those buildings were abundantly and not always skillfully altered in later centuries. The main examples are the episcopal palaces of bishops, notably in Auxerre and in Saint-Antonin. Their principal features are galleries and arcades along the length of the facade. on the facade. One famous example Romanesque civic architecture is the Pont Saint-Bénézet, better known as the Bridge of Avignon. Three arches of the original bridge survive, along with the Romanesque chapel of Saint-Bénézet , with a polygonal abside and a nave with barrel vaults \n"}
{"id": "12440345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12440345", "title": "Gladiator Mosaic", "text": "Gladiator Mosaic\n\nThe Gladiator Mosaic is a famous mosaic of gladiators measuring about 28 meters, dated to the first half of the 4th century. It was discovered in 1834 on the Borghese estate at Torrenova, on the Via Casilina outside Rome. The antiquities which reinvigorated the Borghese Collection after it had shrunk following the sale of much of the collection to Napoleon I.\n\nThe name of each gladiator depicted is given in inscription next to the figure, with a Ø symbol (possibly the Greek letter Θ, theta nigrum, for θάνατος \"dead\") marking the names of gladiators who died in combat.\nThe inscription is listed as CIL VI 10206. \n"}
{"id": "14466099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14466099", "title": "Goodreads", "text": "Goodreads\n\nGoodreads is a \"social cataloging\" website that allows individuals to freely search its database of books, annotations, and reviews. Users can sign up and register books to generate library catalogs and reading lists. They can also create their own groups of book suggestions, surveys, polls, blogs, and discussions. The website's offices are located in San Francisco. The company is owned by the online retailer Amazon.\n\nGoodreads was founded in December 2006 and launched in January 2007 by Otis Chandler, a software engineer and entrepreneur, and Elizabeth Khuri. The website grew rapidly in popularity after being launched. In December 2007, the site had over 650,000 members and over 10,000,000 books had been added. By July 2012, the site reported 10 million members, 20 million monthly visits, and 30 employees. On July 23, 2013, it was announced on their website that the user base had grown to 20 million members, having doubled in close to 11 months. On March 28, 2013, Amazon announced its acquisition of Goodreads.\n\nThe Chandlers created Goodreads in 2006. Goodreads' stated mission is \"to help people find and share books they love ... [and] to improve the process of reading and learning throughout the world.\" Goodreads also addressed \"what publishers call the 'discoverability' problem\" by guiding consumers in the digital age to find books they might want to read.\n\nDuring its first year of business, the company was run without any formal funding. In December 2007, the site received funding estimated at $750,000 from angel investors. This funding lasted Goodreads until 2009, when Goodreads received two million dollars from True Ventures. In October 2010 the company opened its application programming interface, which enabled developers to access its ratings and titles. Goodreads also received a small commission when a user clicks over from its site to an online bookseller and makes a purchase.\n\nIn 2011, Goodreads acquired Discovereads, a book recommendation engine that employs \"machine learning algorithms to analyze which books people might like, based on books they've liked in the past and books that people with similar tastes have liked.\" After a user has rated 20 books on its five-star scale, the site will begin making recommendations. Otis Chandler believed this rating system would be superior to Amazon's, as Amazon's includes books a user has browsed or purchased as gifts when determining its recommendations. Later that year, Goodreads introduced an algorithm to suggest books to registered users and had over five million members. \"The New Yorker\"'s Macy Halford noted that the algorithm wasn't perfect, as the number of books needed to create a perfect recommendation system is so large that \"by the time I'd got halfway there, my reading preferences would have changed and I'd have to start over again.\"\n\nIn October 2012, Goodreads announced it had grown to 11 million members with 395 million books catalogued and over 20,000 book clubs created by its users. A month later, in November 2012, Goodreads had surpassed 12 million members, with the member base having doubled in one year.\n\nIn March 2013, Amazon made an agreement to acquire Goodreads in the second quarter of 2013 for an undisclosed sum. In September 2013, Goodreads announced it would delete, without warning, reviews that mention the behavior of an author or threats against an author.\n\nIn January 2016, Amazon announced that it would shut down Shelfari (a competitor previously acquired by Amazon) in favor of Goodreads effective March 16, 2016. Users were offered the ability to export data and migrate accounts.\n\nIn April 2016, Goodreads announced that over 50 million user reviews had been posted.\n\nOn the Goodreads website, users can add books to their personal bookshelves, rate and review books, see what their friends and authors are reading, participate in discussion boards and groups on a variety of topics, and get suggestions for future reading choices based on their reviews of previously read books. Once users have added friends to their profile, they will see their friends' shelves and reviews and can comment on friends' pages. Goodreads features a rating system of one to five stars, with the option of accompanying the rating with a written review. The site provides default bookshelves—read, currently-reading, to-read—and the opportunity to create customized shelves to categorize a user's books.\n\nGoodreads users can read or listen to a preview of a book on the website using Kindle Cloud Reader and Audible. Goodreads also offers quizzes and trivia, quotations, book lists, and free giveaways. Members can receive the regular newsletter featuring new books, suggestions, author interviews, and poetry. If a user has written a work, the work can be linked on the author's profile page, which also includes an author's blog. Goodreads organizes offline opportunities as well, such as IRL book exchanges and \"literary pub crawls\".\n\nThe website facilitates reader interactions with authors through the interviews, giveaways, authors' blogs, and profile information. There is also a special section for authors with suggestions for promoting their works on Goodreads.com, aimed at helping them reach their target audience. By 2011, \"seventeen thousand authors, including James Patterson and Margaret Atwood\" used Goodreads to advertise.\n\nAdditionally, Goodreads has a presence on Facebook, Pinterest, Twitter, and other social networking sites. Linking a Goodreads account with a social networking account like Facebook enables the ability to import contacts from the social networking account to Goodreads, expanding one's Goodreads \"Friends\" list. There are settings available, as well, to allow Goodreads to post straight to a social networking account, which informs, e.g., Facebook friends, what one is reading or how one rated a book. This constant linkage from Goodreads to other social networking sites keeps information flowing and connectivity continuous.\n\nThe Amazon Kindle Paperwhite (version 2) and Kindle Voyage feature integration with Goodreads' social network via a user interface button.\n\nBook catalog data was seeded with large imports from various closed and open data sources, including individual publishers, Ingram, Amazon (before 2012 and after 2013), Worldcat and the Library of Congress.\n\nGoodreads librarians improve book information on the website, including editing book and author information and adding cover images. Goodreads members can apply to become volunteer librarians after they have 50 books on their profile. Goodreads librarians coordinate on the Goodreads Librarian Group.\n\nUser data becomes proprietary to Goodreads though available via an application programming interface, or API, unlike similar projects like The Open Library which publish the catalog and user edits as open data.\n\nIn January 2012, Goodreads switched from using Amazon's public Product Advertising API for book metadata (such as title, author, and number of pages) to book wholesaler Ingram. Goodreads felt Amazon's requirements for using its API were too restrictive, and the combination of Ingram, the Library of Congress, and other sources would be more flexible. Some users worried that their reading records would be lost, but Goodreads had a number of plans in place to ease the transition and ensure that no data was lost, even for titles that might be in danger of deletion because they were available only through Amazon, such as Kindle editions and self-published works on Amazon. In May 2013, as a result of Goodreads' acquisition by Amazon, Goodreads began using Amazon's data again.\n\nIn 2012, a reviewer wrote a poor review of a novel. The author and publisher discussed publicly on Twitter how to \"knock it off\" the front page of the novel's Goodreads page. This sparked a furor about the relationship between authors and reviewers on Goodreads. Also in 2012, Goodreads received criticism from users about the availability and tone of reviews posted on the site; some users and websites stating that certain reviewers were harassing and encouraging attacks on authors. Goodreads publicly posted its review guidelines in August 2012 to address these issues. Later, new owner Amazon reiterated the policy and augmented it to include deletion of any review containing \"an ad hominem attack or an off-topic comment\". Several news sources reported the announcement, noting Amazon's business reasons for the move:\n\nRegarding the 2013 Amazon acquisition of Goodreads, the \"New York Times\" said, \"Goodreads was a rival to Amazon as a place for discovering books\" and that this deal \"consolidates Amazon's power to determine which authors get exposure for their work\". Some authors, however, believe the purchase means that the \"best place to discuss books is joining up with the best place to buy books\".\n\nThe Goodreads Choice Awards is a yearly award program, first launched on Goodreads in 2009. Users are able to vote for the books that Goodreads has nominated and are also able to nominate books of their choosing, released in the given year. The majority of books that Goodreads itself nominates are from Goodreads authors. The final voting round collects the top 10 books from 20 different categories.\n\nSeveral authors have won multiple Goodreads Readers Choice Awards or the same award in multiple years. The table below sets out those authors to have won more than one award:\n\n\"(Listed by number of wins, then alphabetically by surname)\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39115042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39115042", "title": "Grand Master of Magic Award", "text": "Grand Master of Magic Award\n\nThe Grand Master of Magic® Award is a lifetime achievement award presented by the Brotherhood of Auckland Magicians Incorporated on behalf of the magicians of New Zealand. It was first awarded in 1969 and to date it has been awarded on eighteen occasions.\n\nThe criteria for the Grand Master of Magic Award was formalised in 1998 and is as follows :\n\n\"Its purpose is to honour those magicians who are acknowledged by their fellow magicians to be masters of the art and craft of magic. The recipients first and foremost must be performers of a high standard. In addition they might be originators of magical effects, or administrators giving time and expertise to running societies and conventions. They could be consistent competition winners, or have an international standing, or be known only in the New Zealand setting. But above all they are people who have served magic well, have graced our art, and made a special contribution over many years.\"\n\nAny nomination must also be measured against the standard achieved by the previous recipients.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8014659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8014659", "title": "Heidegger Gesamtausgabe", "text": "Heidegger Gesamtausgabe\n\nHeidegger Gesamtausgabe is the term for the collected works of German philosopher Martin Heidegger, edited by Vittorio Klostermann.\n\nThe \"Gesamtausgabe\" was begun during Heidegger's lifetime. He defined the order of publication and controversially dictated that the principle of editing should be \"ways not works.\" Publication has not yet been completed.\n\nA contents list with details of all English translations (including those currently in preparation) is available.\n\nThe \"Gesamtausgabe\" is divided into four series:\n\n"}
{"id": "468799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=468799", "title": "Henry Wriothesley, 3rd Earl of Southampton", "text": "Henry Wriothesley, 3rd Earl of Southampton\n\nHenry Wriothesley, 3rd Earl of Southampton (6 October 1573 – 10 November 1624), (pronunciation uncertain: \"Rezley\", \"Rizely\" (archaic), (present-day) and have been suggested), was the only son of Henry Wriothesley, 2nd Earl of Southampton, and Mary Browne, daughter of Anthony Browne, 1st Viscount Montagu. Shakespeare's two narrative poems, \"Venus and Adonis\" and \"The Rape of Lucrece\", were dedicated to Southampton, who is frequently identified as the Fair Youth of Shakespeare's Sonnets.\n\nHenry Wriothesley, born 6 October 1573 at Cowdray House, Sussex, was the only son of Henry Wriothesley, 2nd Earl of Southampton, by Mary Browne, the only daughter of Anthony Browne, 1st Viscount Montague, and his first wife, Jane Radcliffe. He had two sisters, Jane, who died before 1573, and Mary (c.1567 – 1607), who in June 1585 married Thomas Arundell, 1st Baron Arundell of Wardour.\n\nAfter his father's death, Southampton's mother married firstly, on 2 May 1595, as his second wife, Sir Thomas Heneage (d. 17 October 1595), Vice-Chamberlain of the Household, and secondly, between 5 November 1598 and 31 January 1599, Sir William Hervey. She died in November 1607.\n\nWhen his father died on 4 October 1581 Southampton inherited the earldom and landed income valued at £1097 6s per annum. His wardship and marriage were sold by the Queen to her kinsman, Charles, Lord Howard of Effingham, for £1000. According to Akrigg, Howard then \"entered into some further agreement, of which no documentation can now be found, which transferred to Lord Burghley personally the custody and marriage of the young Earl, but left Howard holding his lands\", and late in 1581 or early in 1582 Southampton, then eight years of age, came to live at Cecil House in the Strand.\n\nIn October 1585, at age twelve, Southampton entered St John's College, Cambridge, graduating M.A. on 6 June 1589. His name was entered at the Gray's Inn legal society before he left the university, and he was admitted on 29 February 1588.\n\nOn Southampton's 16th birthday, 6 October 1589, Lord Burghley noted Southampton's age in his diary, and by 1590 Burghley was negotiating with Southampton's grandfather, Anthony Browne, 1st Viscount Montague, and Southampton's mother, Mary, for a marriage between Southampton and Lord Burghley's eldest granddaughter, Elizabeth Vere, daughter of Burghley's daughter, Anne Cecil, and Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford. However the match was not to Southampton's liking, and in a letter written in November 1594, about six weeks after Southampton had turned 21, the Jesuit Henry Garnet reported the rumour that \"The young Erle of Southampton refusing the Lady Veere payeth £5000 of present payment\".\n\nIn 1591 Lord Burghley's Clerk in Chancery, John Clapham, dedicated to Southampton a poem in Latin, \"Narcissus\", recounting the Greek legend of a beautiful young man who perishes through self-love. According to Akrigg, Southampton was now spending much of his time at court. He was in attendance when Queen Elizabeth visited Oxford in late September 1592, and was praised fulsomely in the Latin poem written by John Sandford to commemorate the Queen's visit. In October 1592 Southampton's grandfather, Viscount Montague, died. Montague had been a Knight of the Garter, and on 3 May 1593 Philip Gawdy of Clifford's Inn (a law school and Inn of Chancery) wrote to his brother, Bassingbourne Gawdy, that Southampton had been nominated to the Order, together with the Lord Keeper, Lord Burgh, and Lord Willoughby de Eresby. Shortly thereafter, in his \"Honour of the Garter\" dated 26 June 1593, George Peele referred to him as \"Gentle Wriothesley, Southampton's star\", claiming erroneously that an Earl of Southampton had been among the founding Knights. However it was not until 1603 that Southampton was invested in the Order under King James.\n\nIn 1593 Shakespeare dedicated his narrative poem \"Venus and Adonis\" to Southampton, followed in 1594 by \"The Rape of Lucrece\". Although the dedication to \"Venus and Adonis\" is more restrained, the dedication to \"The Rape of Lucrece\" is couched in extravagant terms: \"The love I dedicate to your lordship is without end ... What I have done is yours; what I have to do is yours; being part in all I have, devoted yours.\" This type of vaunting language was not particularly unusual though, because other dedications of the day always excessively praised any noble person sponsoring the author's work – mainly for political, and above all financial, reasons.\n\nNathan Drake, in \"Shakespeare and his Times\", was the first to suggest that Southampton was not only the dedicatee of Shakespeare's two long narrative poems, but also the \"Fair Youth\" of the \"Sonnets\". The title page refers to the \"onlie begetter of these sonnets Mr W.H.,\" and it had earlier been inferred that the \"Sonnets\" were addressed to \"Mr. W.H.\". Drake, however, adopting Chalmers' suggestion that one meaning of \"beget\" is \"bring forth\", argued that Mr. W.H. was merely the procurer of the manuscript rather than the \"Fair Youth\" addressed in the poems. Other adherents of the theory that Southampton was the addressee of the \"Sonnets\" have suggested that his initials, H.W. (Henry Wriothesley), were simply reversed by the publisher to conceal his identity. However Honan argues that although Southampton \"may be involved in Shakespeare's sonnets\", \"there is no real likelihood that he traduced him by drawing his portrait as the fickle, treacherous Young Man of the sonnets, who is implicitly 'lascivious' (sonnet 95), 'sensual' to a 'fault' or to his 'shame' (sonnets 34, 35), and ridden with vices\".\n\nDespite extensive archival research, no documents have been found concerning their relationship apart from the dedications to Shakespeare's two long narrative poems. Nicholas Rowe, on the authority of poet and playwright William Davenant (1606 – 7 April 1668), stated in his \"Life of Shakespeare\" that Southampton once gave Shakespeare £1000 to \"go through with a purchase,\" but Honan terms this a myth.\n\nSouthampton received dedications from other writers in the 1590s. On 27 June 1593 Thomas Nashe completed his picaresque novel, \"The Unfortunate Traveller\", and dedicated it to Southampton, terming him \"a dere lover and cherisher . . . as well of the lovers of Poets, as of Poets themselves\", and in 1593 Barnabe Barnes published \"Parthenophil and Parthenope\" with a dedicatory sonnet to Southampton. In 1595 Gervase Markham included a dedicatory sonnet to Southampton in \"The Most Honorable Tragedy of Richard Grinvile, Knight\". On 2 March 1596 John Florio's Italian/English dictionary was entered in the Stationers' Register. In his dedication, Florio, who was for some years in the Earl's \"pay and patronage\", complimented Southampton on his fluency in Italian, saying he \"had become so complete a master of Italian as to have no need of travel abroad to perfect his mastery of that tongue\". In 1597 Henry Lok included a sonnet to Southampton among the sixty dedicatory sonnets in his \"Sundry Christian Passions\". In the same year William Burton dedicated to him a translation of Achilles Tatius's, \"Clitophon and Leucippe\".\n\nOn 4 October 1594 Southampton's friend, Sir Henry Danvers, shot Henry Long, brother of Sir Walter Long, in the course of a local feud between the Danvers and Long families. Sir Henry and his elder brother, Sir Charles Danvers, fled to Titchfield, where Southampton sheltered them. The brothers were outlawed, and eventually escaped to the continent where they took refuge at the court of King Henri IV.\n\nOn 17 November 1595, Southampton jousted in Queen Elizabeth's accession day tournament, earning a mention in George Peele's \"Anglorum Feriae\" as \"gentle and debonaire\". However, according to Akrigg, \"Gentle and debonair he may have been, but we never again hear of Southampton being high in the graces of Queen Elizabeth\".\n\nOn 13 April 1596 the Queen specifically instructed Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex, not to take either Southampton or the Earl of Derby, with him on an expedition for the Relief of Calais, and it also appears that Southampton did not accompany Essex on the Cadiz Expedition that summer. In February 1597 Southampton challenged the Earl of Northumberland to a duel with rapiers, requiring intervention by the Queen and Privy Council, and on 1 March stood godfather at the christening of Sir Robert Sidney's daughter, Bridget. Later that year Southampton was with Essex on his \"inglorious\" Voyage to the Azores, where according to Rowland Whyte, \"My Lord of Southampton fought with one of the Kings great Men of Warre, and suncke her\". On his return he made his first appearance in the House of Lords on 5 November, and was put on several committees, but became a \"chronic absentee\". By this time he was in serious financial difficulties, and had turned over administration of his estates to two trustees, who by the end of the year had sold some of his lands.\n\nIn 1598 Southampton was involved in a brawl at court with Ambrose Willoughby, one of the Queen's esquires of the body, who had ordered him to leave the presence chamber where he was playing at primero after the Queen had retired for the evening. Southampton struck Willoughby, and \"Willoughby puld of some of his locke\", for which the Queen gave Willoughby thanks, saying \"he had done better yf he had sent hym to the porters lodge, to see who durst have fetcht hym out\". There is a suggestion that underlying the altercation was something Willoughby had said which caused trouble between Southampton and his mistress, Elizabeth Vernon, one of the Queen's Maids of Honour. The Queen forbade Southampton to present himself at court, although he was soon allowed back. Nonetheless it was reported by Rowland Whyte at the beginning of February that \"My Lord of Southampton is much troubled at her Majesties straungest Usage of hym\". Faced with his financial difficulties and the Queen's disfavour, Southampton determined to live abroad for a time, and seized the opportunity of accompanying Sir Robert Cecil on an embassy to Henri IV of France. On 6 February Southampton was granted licence to travel abroad for two years, and by March he and Cecil were in Angers, where on 7 March Southampton was presented to the French King.\n\nWhen Cecil returned to England from his failed mission in April, Southampton remained at the French court, planning to travel to Italy with Sir Charles Danvers and Sir Henry Danvers, whom he had helped to escape from England in 1594 after the murder of Henry Long. At that juncture the Queen decided to pardon the Danvers brothers, and they were back in England on 30 August 1598, at which time Southampton also returned in secret, and married his pregnant mistress, Elizabeth Vernon. He left for the continent almost immediately, but by 3 September the Queen had learned of the marriage and consigned Elizabeth Vernon, one of her chief ladies-in-waiting, to the Fleet Prison for marrying without royal permission.\n\nThe Queen ordered Southampton to return to England forthwith, but he remained in Paris for two months, losing large sums in gambling. By the beginning of November he was back in England, also lodged in the Fleet, where he remained for a month, during which time Elizabeth Vernon gave birth to a daughter, Penelope. To add to his difficulties, Southampton was at this time involved in a dispute with his mother, the Dowager Countess, over her prospective marriage to Sir William Hervey. Lord Henry Howard was brought in to smooth matters between mother and son, and the Countess and Hervey were wed in early January 1599.\n\nIn 1599, during the Nine Years War (1595–1603), Southampton went to Ireland with Essex, who made him General of the Horse, but the Queen insisted that the appointment be cancelled. Southampton remained on in personal attendance upon the Earl, rather than as an officer. However, Southampton was active during the campaign and prevented a defeat at the hands of the Irish rebels when his cavalry drove off an attack at Arklow in County Wicklow. Shortly after the Essex's Rebellion in February 1601, William Reynolds, a soldier who had served with Essex in Ireland in 1599, mentioned Southampton in a letter to Sir Robert Cecil. Speaking of certain men involved in the Essex rebellion who had not yet been arrested, Reynolds wrote:\nI do mervell also what becam of pearse edmones, the earle of Essex man, borne in strand neare me, and which has had many rewards & preferments by the earle essex, his villany I have often complained of, he dweles in London, he was corporall generall of the horse in Ierland under the earle of Sowthamton, he eate & drank at his table and lay in his tente, the earle of Sowthamton gave him a horse, which edmones refused a 100 markes for him, the earle Sowthamton would cole and huge him in his armes and play wantonly with him. This pearse began to fawne and flatter me in Ierland offering me great curtesie, telling me what pay grases & giftes they earles bestowed uppon him, therby seming to move and anymate me to desiar and looke for the like favour, But I coeld never love & afecte them to make them my frends, esspecially essex whoes mynd I ever mistrusted...\nAccording to Duncan-Jones, Reynolds' letter hints that 'rewards could be obtained from either or both of the two Earls in return for sexual favours'. On the other hand, Duncan-Jones concludes that Reynolds may have been a paranoid schizophrenic, and that by his own statement he had written over 200 letters to the Queen, Privy Council, and members of the clergy wherein he had \"complaynid of al the abewses and vilent oppresseones & sodometicall sines over flowing this land\".\n\nOn his return from Ireland, Southampton attracted notice as a playgoer. \"My Lord Southampton and Lord Rutland,\" wrote Rowland Whyte to Sir Robert Sydney in 1599, \"come not to the court: the one doth but very seldom. They pass away the time in London merely in going to plays every day\".\n\nSouthampton was deeply involved in the Essex's Rebellion of 1601, and in February of that year he was sentenced to death. Cecil, who urged the Queen to show the greatest possible degree of clemency, obtained the commutation of his penalty to life imprisonment.\n\nOn the accession of James I Southampton resumed his place at court and received numerous honours from the new king. On the eve of the abortive rebellion of Essex he had induced the players at the Globe Theatre to revive \"Richard II\", and on his release from prison in 1603 he resumed his connection with the stage. In January 1605 he entertained Queen Anne with a performance of \"Love's Labour's Lost\" by Burbage and his company, to which Shakespeare belonged, at Southampton House.\n\nHe seems to have been a born fighter, and engaged in more than one serious quarrel at court, being imprisoned for a short time in 1603 following a heated argument with Lord Grey of Wilton in front of Queen Anne. Grey, an implacable opponent of the Essex faction, was later implicated in the Main Plot and Bye Plot. Southampton was in more serious disgrace in 1621 for his determined opposition to Buckingham. He was a volunteer on the Protestant side in Germany in 1614, and in 1617 he proposed to fit out an expedition against the Barbary pirates.\n\nSouthampton was a leader among the Jacobean aristocrats who turned to modern investment practices — \"in industry, in modernizing their estates and in overseas trade and colonization.\" He financed the first tinplate mill in the country, and founded an ironworks at Titchfield. He developed his properties in London, in Bloomsbury and Holborn; he revamped his country estates, participated in the efforts of the East India Company and the New England Company, and backed Henry Hudson's search for the Northwest Passage.\n\nA significant artistic patron in the Jacobean as well as the Elizabethan era, Southampton promoted the work of George Chapman, Samuel Daniel, Thomas Heywood, and the composer Alfonso Ferrabosco the younger. Heywood's popular, expansionist dramas were compatible with Southampton's maritime and colonial interests.\n\nHenry Wriothesley, whose name is included in the 1605 panel of the New World Tapestry, took a considerable share in promoting the colonial enterprises of the time, and was an active member of the Virginia Company's governing council. Although profits proved elusive, his other visions for the Colony based at Jamestown were eventually accomplished. He was part of a faction within the company with Sir Edwin Sandys, who eventually became the Treasurer, and worked tirelessly to support the struggling venture. In addition to profits, Southampton's faction sought a permanent colony which would enlarge British territory, relieve the nation's overpopulation, and expand the market for English goods. Although profits largely eluded the Virginia Company, and it was dissolved in 1624, the other goals were accomplished.\n\nHis name is thought by many to be the origin of the naming of the harbour of Hampton Roads, and the Hampton River. Although named at later dates, similar attribution may involve the town (and later city) of Hampton, Virginia, as well as Southampton County, Virginia and Northampton County. However, the name Southampton was not uncommon in England, including an important port city and an entire region along the southern coast, which was originally part of Hampshire. There are also variations applied in other areas of the English colonies which were not part of the Virginia Company of London's efforts, making the origin of the word and derivations of it as applied in Virginia even more debatable.\n\nIn 1624 Southampton was one of four Englishmen appointed to command troops fighting in the Low Countries against the Spanish. Shortly after their arrival the earl's eldest son, James Wriothesley, succumbed to a fever at Rosendael. Five days later, on 10 November 1624, Southampton died of the same cause at Bergen-op-Zoom, aged 51. Both were buried in the parish church of Titchfield, Hampshire.\n\nIn August 1598 Southampton secretly married Elizabeth Vernon, the daughter of John Vernon of Hodnet, Shropshire, by his wife Elizabeth Devereux. Elizabeth Devereux's grandfathers were the Viscount Hereford and the Earl of Huntingdon; on her father John's side, Elizabeth's family were more obscure.\n\nThey had several children, including:\n\nThere exist numerous portraits of Southampton, in which he is depicted with dark auburn hair and blue eyes, compatible with Shakespeare's description of \"a man right fair.\" Sir John Beaumont wrote a well-known elegy in his praise, and Gervase Markham wrote of him in a tract entitled \"Honor in his Perfection, or a Treatise in Commendation of ... Henry, Earl of Oxenford, Henry, Earle of Southampton, Robert, Earl of Essex\" (1624).\n\nIn 2002 a portrait in the Cobbe collection was identified as a portrait of the youthful Earl. Showing him as an androgynous-looking young man, it is now known as the Cobbe portrait of Southampton.\n\nIn April 2008, a further portrait believed to be of Southampton, hidden beneath a portrait of his wife Elizabeth Vernon, was discovered when the work was X-rayed in preparation for an exhibition.\n\nThe Earl has been played on screen by several different actors:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49714854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49714854", "title": "IAuthor", "text": "IAuthor\n\niAuthor is a London-based tech startup and online book community which launched in July 2013. Described in The Bookseller as a \"Pinterest for books\", iAuthor connects authors and publishers to readers using crowdsourced themes and book samples.\n\niAuthor was founded by Adam Kolczynski on 18 January 2012. Between December 2012 and July 2013, the platform operated in live beta, capped at 250 users. iAuthor officially launched on July 26, 2013, opening the platform to all authors and publishers.\n\nAs of March 2016, iAuthor attracts users from 144 countries. The ratio of traditionally published to self-published authors is 40:60, with books by authors from Pan Macmillan, HarperCollins, Harlequin, Walker Books, Accent Press and Andersen Press.\n\n\niAuthor has a corporate partnership with Book Aid International, donating to literacy-related causes organised by the charity.\n\n"}
{"id": "33674538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33674538", "title": "Inland Type Foundry", "text": "Inland Type Foundry\n\nThe Inland Type Foundry was an American type foundry established in 1894 in Saint Louis, Missouri and later with branch offices in Chicago and New York City. Although it was founded to compete directly with the \"type trust\" (American Type Founders), and was consistently profitable, it was eventually sold to ATF.\n\nInland was founded by the three sons of Carl Schraubstadter, one of the owners of the Central Type Foundry which had shut down upon being sold to American Type Founders (ATF) in 1892. William A. Schraubstadter had been superintendent of the old foundry and, not being offered a similar position in the consolidation, founded Inland with his two brothers, Oswald and Carl Jr. At first the foundry sold type made by the Keystone Type Foundry and the Great Western Type Foundry, but soon enough was cutting and casting faces of their own. All three brothers were familiar with the foundry business and quite soon the firm began making type that was \"state of the art,\" being point-set and having a common base-line for all faces of the same body size. This last feature was a recent innovation and, as Inland had no back stock of non-linging faces, they advertised this heavily as \"Standard Line Type.\"\n\nTwo magazines, \"Practical Printer\" and \"Printers' Wit & Humor\" were published by the firm in order to showcase their type. In 1897 Inland bought out the Western Engravers' Supply Company of St. Louis. In 1911 the brothers sold the foundry to ATF, which divided the matrices between their own facility in Jersey City and that of their subsidiary Barnhart Brothers & Spindler in Chicago. While the other two brothers simply retired, Oswald Schraubstadter worked for ATF for many years.\n\nInland was arguably the most successful American type foundry, certainly the most successful of its day. Several factors were responsible for this including the experience and capability of the Schraubstadter brothers, a well designed high-quality product, an aggressive program of direct mail advertising, and reduced transport costs due to both the closeness of lead mines and the concentration of the printing industry in the Midwest and Tennessee. Another factor in their success might have been widespread resentment among printers of the \"type trust,\" represented by ATF.\n\nInland, alone among foundries, often named their type faces after prominent customers. \"Studley\", for instance, was named after Robert P. Studley, a St. Louis lithographer. The following foundry types were issued by Inland:\n"}
{"id": "50481081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50481081", "title": "La Gloria (Titian)", "text": "La Gloria (Titian)\n\nLa Gloria is a painting by Titian, commissioned by Charles V in 1550 or 1551 and completed in 1554. It was first given this title by José Sigüenza in 1601 - it is also known as The Trinity, The Final Judgement or Paradise. \n\nIt shows an image from Augustine of Hippo's \"The City of God\" describing the glory gained by the blessed and on the right includes Charles himself, with his wife Isabella of Portugal, his son Philip II of Spain, his daughter Joanna of Austria, Mary of Hungary and Eleanor of Austria, all wearing their shrouds. Titian's signature is shown on a scroll held by John the Evangelist. At the top is an image of the Holy Trinity next to the Virgin Mary and Saint John the Baptist. The painting also features King David, Moses and Noah, along with a figure in green identified as Mary Magdalene, the Erythraean Sibyl, Judith, Rachel or the Catholic Church.\n\nCharles took it to the Monastery of Yuste on his retirement there. It was then moved to the Escorial Monastery until 1837, when it was mentioned as among the works in the Prado Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "462285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=462285", "title": "List of Dadaists", "text": "List of Dadaists\n\nThe following is a list of Dadaists. It includes those who are generally classed into different movements, but have created some Dadaist works.\n\n"}
{"id": "10314359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10314359", "title": "List of museums of ancient Near Eastern art", "text": "List of museums of ancient Near Eastern art\n\nThis is a list of museums with major art collections from the Ancient Near East.\n\n"}
{"id": "34378262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34378262", "title": "Marín Dolls Museum-Factory", "text": "Marín Dolls Museum-Factory\n\nThe Marín Dolls Museum-Factory (Fábrica-Museo Muñecas Marín) is located in Chiclana de la Frontera, in the province of Cádiz, Andalusia, southwestern Spain. The doll museum is located next to the doll factory. The factory was established in 1928, by the artist José Marín Verdugo (1903-1984). By the mid 20th century, the dolls were sold not only in Spain, but also in other European countries. In 1976, the Spanish government granted the Medal of Merit of Labor to the Chiclana José Marín Verdugo factory. Krakow, Poland honored it with the First World Doll Award. It is currently run by Ana Marín, daughter of the founder. The Government of Spain granted to José Marín Verdugo 's Medal of Merit Labor in 1976.\n\nThe museum provides information on the factory building and its traditional Marín dolls, which they won the First Prize Muñequería World. Opened in 1997, the museum's goal is to showcase the various doll types created by the craft factory. It has a large collection of handmade dolls and molds, antique designs and original sculptures. The museum is open weekdays.\n\nDoll making at the Chiclana factory became a feminized job, using artisan production methods to create the hand made dolls. The original dolls were dressed in typical Andalusian flamenco attire. Others were produced later to depict costumes from other regions, such as the \"chulapa\" of Madrid and the Valencian \"fallas\". Since its inception, it has demonstrated traditional doll making techniques, in hair, makeup, and facial expressions. The dolls are easily recognized by their dainty features and smiling faces. The factory has been a reference point for Andalusian economic activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "47403559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47403559", "title": "P. Solomon Raj", "text": "P. Solomon Raj\n\nP. Solomon Raj \"(born 1921)\" is a pastor of the Protestant Andhra Evangelical Lutheran Church Society headquartered in Guntur with major contribution to theological research and arts. The Old Testament scholar Victor Premasagar wrote about Raj as a pastor, professor of communications, creative artist, sculptor, poet and a theological writer.\n\nThe church historian, K. L. Richardson of the Andhra Christian Theological College, Hyderabad, India, in \"Towards Self-Reliance: A historical survey of the programmes and efforts of Andhra Evangelical Lutheran Church from 1927–1969, Published by D. Christopher and T. Kanakaiah, Vijayawada, 2003\nhas highlighted the contribution of Raj with special reference to Indian liturgy and music. Richardson writes, \nMuch like theologians of India believing in the Indian ethos akin to A. B. Masilamani, D. S. Amalorpavadass, Victor Premasagar, M. Victor Paul and others, Raj believes that it is only that form of Christianity, deeply etched in the diverse cultures of India, that can affect Christianity in India. While A. B. Masilamani promoted Indian liturgy in the Christian Hymnal in Telugu, D. S. Amalorpavadass advocated for vernacular liturgy. Similarly, Victor Premasagar had recognised the contribution of indigenous movements. M. Victor Paul rooted for indigenous churches in place of institutionalized ones. It is in such a setting that Raj's contribution gains credence in the light of his doctoral dissertation on the Bible Mission Movement by Father Devadas which Roger E. Hedlund writes as,\nAs an artist, Raj received global acclaim. Gudrun Löwner of the United Theological College, Bangalore has devoted a section in \"The Oxford Handbook of Christianity in Asia\",\n\nRaj underwent initial studies between 1940–1945 at the AELC-Andhra Christian College, Guntur and became a teacher. During the tenure of A. N. Gopal as president of the Andhra Evangelical Lutheran Church Society, Raj was sent for theological studies to the Gurukul Lutheran Theological College, Madras, where he studied from 1953–1956, studying under thoroughbred faculty, including Professor Hans-Werner Gensichen.\n\nIn 1964 during the tenure of G. Devasahayam at the AELC Church Society, Raj was sent for post-graduate studies to the Indiana University, Indiana, where he completed a master's degree in education.\n\nWhen the Selly Oak Colleges, Birmingham invited Raj to lecture in communication for term between 1978–1983, Raj not only taught at the college but also enrolled as a doctoral candidate and pursued research studies under the guidance of Walter Hollenweger. Raj also spent time at the Lutheran School of Theology at Chicago.\n\nAs an artist, Raj first learnt the nuances of art through the Sunday School and later became a student of the notable artist, Damerla Rama Rao and cleared a state examination in drawing and painting. While at the Indiana University, he learnt woodblock printing and etching. As for batik, he learnt it from his friends in Hyderabad.\n\nThe career graph of Raj shows him as a teacher, pastor, administrator, professor and as an artist.\n\nAlthough Raj began his career as a teacher, he soon became a pastor of the Andhra Evangelical Lutheran Church Society serving as a chaplain of the AELC-Andhra Christian College, Guntur serving during 1956–1959. He then served at the Lutheran Theological College, Rajahmundry for a year, 1959–1960.\n\nIn 1960, on the invitation of the National Council of Churches in India (NCCI), he took up the directorship of the Department for Audio-Visual education and served in Nagpur, the headquarters of the NCCI from 1960–1968. In 1968, he moved to Vijayawada to take up a role as director of the radio station, \"Suvartha Vani\", a multimedia project of the Andhra Pradesh Council of Churches, serving during the period 1968–1978. K. L. Richardson writes that \"Rev. P. Solomon Raj of the AELC who had rich experience in radio evangelism also served in the programme of Suvartha Vani\".\n\nRaj took up professorship and lectured at the Selly Oak Colleges, Birmingham, from 1978–1983, where he taught communication. Raj was visiting lecturer in the United States of America during 1984–1985.\n\nScholars down the line have acknowledged the contribution of Raj to theology and art.\n\nRavela Joseph and B. Suneel Bhanu, who had undertaken a compilation in 1993 entitled \"Bibliography of original Christian writings in India in Telugu\" on behalf of the Board of Theological Education of the Senate of Serampore College, acknowledged Raj to be one of the original Christian writers in Telugu. They have listed out the following works by Raj,\n\nIn addition to the books listed out, Raj has also authored,\n\nArt forms interested Raj since his Sunday School days, and he soon got to show his arts from the later half of the 1960s. He was Artist-in-Residence in United States of America, Great Britain, Canada, Japan and Philippines \"(Asian Institute for Liturgy and Music, Manila)\". He held art shows and gave lectures in United Kingdom, United States of America, Japan, Sweden, Finland, Germany, Netherlands and the Philippines.\n\n\n\n\nIn 1986, Raj was elected as the president of the Indian Christian Art Association. In 1987–88, Raj was William Paton Fellow at the Selly Oak Colleges, Birmingham.\n\nIn 2006, a postgraduate candidate at the Utrecht University, Jojanneke Dekker undertook a research on the works of Raj entitled \"Solomon Raj, Prophetic Artist in India: A Research on Dr. P. Solomon Raj's Art as a Medium of Inculturation of the Gospel in India\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21772278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21772278", "title": "Pixiv", "text": "Pixiv\n\nStarting as the idea of the programmer Takahiro Kamitani, who is himself an artist known as Bakotsu on the website, Pixiv was launched on September 10, 2007 as a beta test. When the number of users exceeded 10,000 only nineteen days after launch, it became difficult for Kamitani to maintain Pixiv on his own, leading him to establish Crooc Inc. on October 1, 2007. The website underwent a major upgrade on December 18, 2007 into what is similar to the current version of the website. While the website was originally only available in Japanese, Chinese was the first additional language offered due to an increasing tendency of international registrants from Taiwan and China; there is also an increasing number of registrants from the United States and South Korea. In 2009, an English-language version was considered to be the lowest in terms of priority, but was later established in early 2011. Internationalization of the website continued with the addition of French, Korean, Russian and Thai. Certain European countries with a high number of hits on the website such as Germany and Italy will also be considered. The management company Crooc was renamed Pixiv Inc. on November 1, 2008. The CEO of Pixiv Inc. is Takanori Katagiri.\n\nA free membership is required in order to browse the website. Pixiv's main concept is for users to submit their own art illustrations, which excludes most forms of photography; creative writing can also be submitted. Users can participate in a social network where one can rate contributions, leave comments on art pieces, and change tags on any entry. Due to the flexibility of tags, users can start impromptu user-generated participation events where users submit art related to a common specific subject. Each user has a personal bulletin board system where other users can leave messages. One can also respond to images with another image, known as an \"image response\". Pixiv differentiates itself from its most notable western counterpart, DeviantArt, in that it permits hardcore pornography to be posted on the site, albeit with genitals censored so as to conform with Japanese obscenity laws. Images such as these, or other images not suitable for children such as grotesque images, are separated from the other content through a filter which can be turned on or off via the user's profile. The majority of contributions are of anime, manga, and video game fan art, or of original art which resembles these art forms. The website's global policy includes protecting the privacy of all Pixiv users, and refraining from posting others' works, reprinting others' works without permission, and advertising for commerce. The current English slogan is \"It's fun drawing!\" but earlier versions used a literal translation of the Japanese slogan as \"A place where drawing becomes more enjoyable.\" This explains the subtitle \"Pixiv, the online artist's community, aims to be that place.\"\n\nFormal events are periodically held on Pixiv to gather participation in formal events revolving around a common theme depending on the time of year; these events revolve around the user-submitted artwork. Throughout the year, seasonal events occur, such as tie-ins with the holidays Halloween, Christmas, New Years, and \"Tanabata\". For a fixed period of time, a section of the website is dedicated to these seasonal submissions, and aspects of the website such as the logo design and star-rating system are altered; for example, the stars are pumpkins during the Halloween-tie in event. On and thereafter the Tanabata event in mid-2008, prizes are offered by either sponsors or from Pixiv itself for participants in the event whose art proves to be popular with the community. Other than during seasonal events, sponsors can also work with Pixiv on PR events, again offering prizes to the users with the most popular works. Pixiv has held an event called \"Doodle 4 Pixiv\", an event inspired by Google's Doodle4Google competition where participating members take the Pixiv logo and modify it in some way.\n\nBefore the Comiket 73 convention in December 2007, users set up a \"Pixiv Edition C73 Catalog\" on the website via the tags on the images, and following this Pixiv began setting up a section of the website for members participating at Comiket starting in preparation for Comiket 74 in August 2008. This enables users to search through a catalog by \"dōjin\" circles and by username which also includes information on where in the convention center a user's circle is located. Along the same lines, due to the high level of Touhou Project fan art contributions to the website (about 3.9% of all submissions), Pixiv also sets up a similar catalog for the annual Reitaisai \"Touhou\" convention.\n\nWhen the top page of Pixiv is viewed when not logged in, a random selection of the newest highly rated contributions to the website are previewed as thumbnails. A set of tags from the most recent submissions is shown in a tag cloud under the illustrations. When logged in, six of the newest illustrations are previewed at the top, and several top-three rankings are shown including daily, popular among men, rookie, and original for illustrations, and a daily ranking for written contributions. Other rankings not on the top page include weekly, monthly, and popular among women. Tag clouds are displayed, as well as official events and new illustrations from favorited artists. A random selection of a user's favorite artists, linking to their user pages, can be viewed under the user's profile image on the left. Two links are available to a user to review their past evaluations and comments left on images. A link to go to the adult version of the top page is available as well, if enabled.\n\nOn a given user's user page, the user's three most-recent submissions are previewed as thumbnails, along with the user's three most recently bookmarked images, and the three most-recent image responses by the user who responded to another user's submissions. A selection of a user's favorite artists is available, with links to the full lists of artists divided between \"favorite users\" and \"my picks\". A short profile detailing the artist's basic information, such as nickname, birthday, sex, and location, is available, along with a short self-introduction. An additional profile detailing an artist's computer workspace is also available. Each user has a profile image used to distinguish the artist which appears above their username on their user page. Each user is given a simple, personal BBS which the user, or anyone else, can write comments on with a limit of 140 characters, and only the 60 most-recent entries are available for viewing.\n\nA user can submit an unlimited number of images, though a user must wait five minutes between submissions. When searching for contributions, the number of users who bookmarked a given image will appear under the thumbnail as \"# users\" in blue, and the number of users who gave an image response to a given image will also appear under the thumbnail as \"# res\" in red. If a submitted image is larger than 600x600 pixels, the image will appear as a 600-pixel length image on the image's page which, when clicked, will open up a new browser window or tab containing the full image. It is possible for a user to evaluate each submission once per 24-hour period with a scale of star-shaped icons from one to ten (low to high). The number of times an image has been evaluated, the sum score, and the number of times an image has been viewed are posted above the stars. A summary of the image written by the artist appears above the image with its title.\n\nIt is possible to make a short comment on an image with a limit of 140 characters; the 20 most-recent comments are posted, and it is possible for a user to delete their own comments. A set of tags are attached to each image which can be edited by any Pixiv user, and any tag can be added, even overly specific tags containing full sentences; however, only ten tags per image are allowed. If a submission received an image response, the five most-recent image responses are previewed as thumbnails under the comment input line with a link to the full list of image responses. Previews of submissions can be embedded into other websites such as blogs which link back to the image's page on Pixiv.\n\nTags are an important feature of Pixiv which enable images to be grouped together in common themes and subjects. While each image is only allowed ten tags, the artist who posted a given image can choose which tags to lock or unlock; if a given tag is unlocked, any user can remove or alter the tag. Any user can add in additional tags, and it is possible to report any unpleasant or defamatory tags. A section of the website contains a list of the top 5,000 used tags on the website, with the most-used tags at the top; the two most-used tags are \"Touhou\" and \"original\" with over 1 million submissions each. Another section of the website lists the number of users who have images with common tags; for example, the \"original\" tag is used the most by users. There are advanced search options to search for images by size, aspect ratio, and tools used.\n\nIt is possible to bookmark favorite images and have them easily available for viewing via a user's user page. The bookmarks are organized by tags, and a short comment on the image can be added by the bookmarker. The number of images one can bookmark is unrestricted, and the images are listed by either newest-first or oldest-first. The images bookmarked by a user are available for any user to view. A user can add other users to their \"favorite users\", which can either be public or private, and are listed by most-recently added. A user can add their friends as \"my picks\" (or \"my Pixiv\") which is shown in a public listing organized by the order in which the members joined Pixiv starting with the earliest.\n\nLaunched on April 1, 2009, users can pay a fee of 525 yen per month to obtain an upgraded account known as Pixiv Premium. Users with premium accounts are given various special privileges, such as trying new services earlier than other members, sorting search results by popularity, and getting preferential treatment in the events organized through the website.\n\nPremium users are given 2,000 Pixiv Points (abbreviated pp) per month, which users give to others they like and support via a \"goodP\" button visible on each user's user page. It is possible to send anywhere between 10 and 500 points at a time. A third party not related to the exchange of points between two users will not be aware any points were exchanged; they are meant as a private feature between two users to show thanks or gratitude. If any points gained within any 30-day period are not used in one year's time, the points expire. There are plans to use the points to exchange them for original Pixiv goods.\n\nPremium members can make use of the event community portion of the website which allows users to organize events off-site. Only premium users can organize the events, but any Pixiv member can view the events in a public calendar, and any member can join any of the events. All of the events are for members of Pixiv to meet offline in user-organized events to showcase art, \"dōjinshi\", or anything else Pixiv-related. Events can only be planned up to three months in advance, and each premium member can only organize one event at a time, though can join however many one wishes. Only Pixiv-related events can be organized in the event community, and if any event which is found to be unsuitable will be removed. Up to three people can be given co-managerial status on Pixiv for an event.\n\nThe search feature on the website enables a user to search for images via their tags, or by their titles and captions. A random-tag search feature is available, which excludes the adult images, where a set of forty images are displayed as thumbnails. Users can be found via a specific search feature which searches for matches with users' profiles. It is possible to message other users with a 10–10,000 character limit. A mobile phone version of the website is available called Pixiv Mobile or for short.\n\nBetween February 27 and March 1, 2009, Pixiv held their first convention, Pixiv Festa, at the East Design Festa Gallery in Omotesandō, Tokyo, Japan. The event consisted of several exhibitions by 145 different artists. Participants could freely interact with the art exhibits in the three ways one can interact on the website: via rating an image from one to ten (low to high) stars, making comments about an image, or having the ability to change tags on any entry. Participants were given a set of gold star-shaped stickers which they could place below any of the art pieces, showing their satisfaction or lack thereof by not placing any stars. Each of the art pieces was hung with a comment book that people could write anything they wanted in, critiquing the art pieces. Finally, participants were given a set of blank tags that they could write anything they wanted on, and attach below a given art piece; each art piece had ten spots to place tags on.\n\nFurther attractions included an area where participants could draw art pieces and get feedback from others, and a \"Pixiv Zone\" on the second floor which contained an exhibit chronicling the -year history of Pixiv. Each participant was also given a quiz sheet regarding Pixiv trivia whose answers could be found in the Pixiv Zone. People who completed the quiz, and got at least twenty-five of thirty questions correct would receive special gifts while supplies lasted. The second Pixiv Festa convention was held in the same place between July 11–12, 2009. For the third Pixiv Festa held between June 12–13, 2010, both the East and West Design Festa Galleries were used for the convention. The fourth Pixiv Festa was held between October 16–17, 2010.\n\nPixiv held an event called Pixiv Market on November 15, 2009 at the Tokyo Big Sight in Ariake, Tokyo, Japan. The event was similar to Comiket where participants were able to sell and distribute their works of art, whether they were single illustrations or entire \"dōjinshi\". The application period for Pixiv Premium members was held between July 31 and August 12, 2009, and the application period for regular Pixiv members was held between August 25 and September 10, 2009. About 200 booths were set up for the event.\n\nIn addition to the website Pixiv, Pixiv Inc. began to develop the idea of expanding Pixiv beyond its website's boundaries while being able to use a user's Pixiv account for other peripheral services. In October 2008, Pixiv Inc. launched an oekaki Internet forum called Drawr, which anyone with a Pixiv account can use. The website uses a Flash-based system to enable users to draw art via a web application. Other users can submit art replies to any art piece; there is no interface for text entry. Unlike Pixiv, there is no search feature as there are no tags available, and it is not required to sign-up or login to Drawr to browse the entries. On Drawr, users can create threads where users submit art on a common theme, or add to the image which started the thread.\n\nIn collaboration with Twitter, Pixiv Inc. launched a web service in July 2009 called DrawTwit, which anyone with a Twitter account can use and allows users to draw artwork and post them to Twitter. Others can comments on the artwork with either writing a 110-character limit or drawing a 140-brush stroke limit image response (in the same spirit as Twitter's limit of 140 characters per tweet). DrawTwit was originally a temporary service available during maintenance of the Pixiv website on July 16, 2009, but the service proved popular enough to develop into its own entity. In collaboration with Livedoor, a blogging service called Pixiv Blog was launched on April 23, 2009, which anyone with a Pixiv account can use. A Pixiv wiki called Pixiv Encyclopedia was launched on November 10, 2009 as a way to index and define the more than 1.6 million different tags used on Pixiv, which anyone with a Pixiv account can use. An English-language version of the encyclopedia and an English-language official Twitter account started in May 2011. An oekaki chat service called Pixiv Chat was launched on December 15, 2009 for users to draw oekaki art while in a chat room.\n\nIn collaboration with Enterbrain, Pixiv began to produce an online magazine entitled on April 20, 2009. The magazine contains information pertaining to the Pixiv community, and useful information for its users. This includes news articles on latest Pixiv news, how-to articles, interviews with popular artists on the website, and columns, including other things. Also, the magazine covers proactive activities artists on the website are doing related to the website such as the holding of art exhibitions. Also in collaboration with Enterbrain, a magazine titled \"Quarterly Pixiv\" will begin publication on May 28, 2010 containing material similar to that in \"Pixiv Tsūshin\".\n\nThe self-styled \"Modern Art Group\" was suspected of collaborating with top level management at Pixiv, though Pixiv later denied any connection to the group. Takanori Katagiri and Chaos Lounge deliberately used art solicited from a Pixiv contest in their own \"modern art\" collages. In these collages, visitors to the gallery were encouraged to \"slowly trample upon\" the images strewn out around the floor. When Pixiv users complained that their work was being used inappropriately, Pixiv took no action to punish or suspend the accounts of Chaos Lounge or Takanori Katagiri. The controversy has created a mass exodus of frustrated artists from Pixiv to alternative art-centric sites such as Tinami and Pixa. Traffic from the influx of frustrated Pixiv users has increased by as much as 50 times the normal rate for these sites, causing many of them to buckle under the weight of new users and go offline for maintenance. On July 27, 2011 Pixiv formally apologized on their website, promising to improve their management practices in the future.\n\n"}
{"id": "8640646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8640646", "title": "Public art in South Korea", "text": "Public art in South Korea\n\nThe overview of recent developments in public art practices in Korea (1999–2005) Public art practices from the last 5 years or so in Korea can be narrowed down to three major issues. The first issue is the dispute over the Art Decoration Law for buildings, which is the national cultural policy that mandates acquisition of public sculptures. The second is proliferation of gigantic-scale public art projects led by local governments. The third issue is new genre public art works that pursue activist ideals and social engagement. In this article, the Flying City and Oasis Project’s practices will be mainly discussed based on receiving major attention from the mass media and art field. These three issues not only reflect changes in Korean society but also make up characteristics of Korean public art practices.\n\nPublic sculpture sites in public spaces take up the majority of Korean public art practices in terms of number. The proliferation and popularity of public sculptures originated from the establishment of the Art Decoration Law for buildings when the Korean government was hosting the Olympic Games in 1988. The law mandates that an owner of a new building must earmark 0.7% of the construction cost to artworks for public view. The increasing level of urban population and the buildings constructed due to urban development resulted in a dramatic increase in the number of public sculptures. However, questions have been raised over the artistic quality over these works, especially because most of the public sculptures remain in modernist style, which was the mainstream at the time the law was first established. Disregarding communication with the public audience, these sculptures function merely as decoration of the spaces. Furthermore, only a handful of artists were repeatedly commissioned and even subcontracted to foundries resulting in more problems in the production and dissemination of public sculptures.\n\nAs such, these shortcomings stirred up more heated disputes coinciding with elevated levels of interest in public art, and led to the birth of the Public Art Council established in 2002 that opposes the current policies. The Public Art Council raised questions on the extent that current public art practices have provided artistic satisfaction to the public, who the actual audience is, and how relevant the works are to the lives of residents near the art sites. These issues concerning public good were the foundation of the argument by the Public Art Council demanding to raise the quality of public art. Furthermore, it suggested to the government an alternative policy to create a fund drawn from the building owners’ mandated expense when a new building is built by the Art Decoration Law for Buildings. Then the governing body of the fund would allocate money from the fund for operation in selection of artists, maintenance and conservation of the art works. Now the Korean Ministry of Culture and Tourism is seriously considering the suggestion to establish a new law. In light of the fact that Koreans spend 11.5 billion Korean won a year for Public Art (1997 Survey by Korean Culture and Tourism Policy Institute), the Public Art Association expects that a new policy can provide a larger number of artists with new jobs and other career benefits.\n\nWhen civilian government came into power in Korea in the 1990s it introduced the Local Government Act. This made it possible for regional governments to act more freely and independently from the central government. This was followed by speedy development in small local cities. From its establishment local governments understood the importance of cultural projects in promoting the images of their regions and therefore commenced public art projects even though most of these projects turned out to be sculpture gardens. Recently, the direction of local government-led cultural projects has slightly changed towards large-scale public art projects coinciding with nationwide interest in concerns for the environment. The Anyang City Government took the initiative in supporting the Supplementary Space Stone & Water and Saving Our Anyang River Network to co-organize the Anyang River Project, FLOW, which is interconnected with the city’s urban development project, environmental improvement project, and beautification plan. At the event, murals were placed along various locations around the Anyang River as the center, photograph exhibitions were posted on billboards, and art objects were presented. In addition, the Anyang city government started a 21 billion Korean won (20 million US dollars) scaled multiyear plan to turn the whole city into an art park. The Anyang Public Art Project has been established in November 2005 as the first annual project.\n\nThe Seoul Metropolitan Government also kicked off a project in 2002 that restored the Chunggye River, located between City hall and Shindab, which was formerly covered over with a concrete-covered freeway overpass. The freeway was razed and the project was completed on October 1, 2005 after spending 1.5 trillion Korean won (1.4 billion US dollars) by the city government. This project is one of the steps of the city’s long term project to promote a higher quality of life for Seoul residents and to provide better environmentally friendly urban development planning. The inauguration events included performance, concerts, and an exhibition with 50 murals and installations along the river.\n\nIt was from around the year 2000 when new genre public art first appeared, emphasizing the site of public art and the collaborative working process with the residents of local communities, building on the foundation of the direct relationship between the local environment and the artwork. As this genre emerged it performed distinct activities in the Korean art field. Korea’s new genre of public art has shown aggressive tendencies in its social engagement. Two major artist groups - the urban research group Flying City, and the Oasis Project, are typical examples of art involving these social philosophies in art practices.\n\nFirst, the urban research group Flying City was formed with Jeon Yongseok, Jang Jongkwan, and Kim Gisoo. They have conducted research on the impact that rapid industrialization has had on the city of Seoul since right after the Korean War. The area along the Chunggye River in particular, is the heart of post-war industrialization as well as the most historical site where they carried out series of public art projects.\n\nAmong them, Mental Map (2001–2003) was an investigation of the influence on the unconscious level. Here, the Flying City interviewed the residents in the area and asked them to create a psychological map in addition to drawing future maps of the area in which they would like to live. The Chunggye River is also the area that supported the very foundation of the development of Seoul’s industrialization due to its concentration of hardware stores, garment shops, and electronic appliance stores. It is even said that there is no brand of goods in the world that has not been copied and sold along Chunggye-river. People have also been known to say that a space satellite could be assembled because one could collect and buy all the necessary parts sold in this area.\n\nFlying City recently organized the Chunggye Mini Expo Project that introduced machine parts manufacturing stores in the area. In this project they studied the co-relationships between and among stores and then created a diagram to visualize their studies. They also turned the stores into temporary exhibition spaces by displaying actual mockups they created to sell and writing anecdotes about the mockups on their show windows encouraging the audience to visit the stores.\n\nKyongju Park, who is participating in the exhibition, Publicly Speaking, traveled to six major cities of Korea staging a migrant workers election campaign performance that urged a change of perspectives in the ways people regard 350,000 migrant workers. At the same time, she surveyed Koreans on their reaction to the situation of migrant workers running for government. She also set up an internet broadcasting company for migrant workers.\n\nJihye Kim’s work at her exhibition, Invitation to Pyunghwa New City, presents the story of Pyongtaek city residents threatened with eviction from their homes due to the expansion plans of the Humphrey US military base. This area in Pyongtaek was once known as Daechoo-ri before the base moved in. Together with the town residents who have been living in the area from its time as Daechoo-ri, the artist organized a gathering and sang a Daechoo Boy Scouts anthem to call attention to the era when boys in the city were able to play ball games at the playgrounds which were the former sites that are currently occupied by the U.S. military base.\n\nOasis is the name of an artists’ group created by Kim Kang and Kim Younhoan as well as the name of a squat project. The group introduced the concept of “squatting” to Korea and worked actively with the mission of rejuvenating abandoned or decommissioned buildings. They have been trying to occupy the Korean Federation of Art Organizations (KFAO) building since winter 2004. This building was about 90% complete when construction was suspended and was left unfinished for the past 7 years despite the fact that the KFAO received combined grants of 22 billion Korean won (21.5 million US dollars) from both the ministry of Culture and Tourism and the Korean Culture and Art Foundation (KCAF).\n\nThe Oasis Group started to occupy the building by cleaning the site and playing on it, only to be stopped by an army of policemen. Later on, Oasis put on an advertisement announcing that office spaces in the 25 storey-high KFAO building were available for rent on the market and made a call for applicants. Oasis and 400 applicants to the office spaces then organized continuous concerts, exhibitions and performance demonstrations in front of the building requesting permission to use the vacant spaces as studios. Their request resulted in huge media coverage on the lack of accountability in KFAO’s mismanagement of the building as well as the two government cultural agencies that never followed up on the grants they provided to the KFAO.\n\nKFAO sued the Oasis Group in court and Kim Younhoan and Byunghwan Lee from the group were fined 500,000 Korean won. Even during the trial process the group organized one-person performances and demonstrations in front of the office of the MCT. Later many art professionals participated in the art demonstrations. The number of participants and the level of attention and interest in this issue grew to unprecedented levels, more than any other project organized by an artist group. The group’s activities differentiated themselves by the complexity and diversity in their programming as well as their administrational efficiency during the office space distribution performance. The level of organization and efficiency has been compared to standards executed by larger-scaled NGOs.\n\nHowever, the Oasis group actually occupied the building for only a few days. More attention should be given to the many art related rallies and cultural demonstrations against the KCAF and MCT that were organized by this group. This has shown their focus on their activities as cultural activism that urged reforms of cultural administration practices. .\n\nThe criticism by public art associations on the mismanagement of the Art Decoration Law for buildings, the Oasis group and their criticism of the funding administration practices by the MCT and KCAF, Jihye Kim’s Daechoo-ri Project dealing with the right-of-residence issue between the US military base and the native residents, and Kyongju Park’s performances on migrant workers eligibility in running for election to government posts, can all be considered as cultural activist work dealing with societal and political issues. They also have in common in their approach to their works sophistication in the level of organization and highly skilled administration and networking abilities.\n\nIn terms of members, the majority of these groups participated in the Minjung art movement in the 1980s when democratization of Korea began. For that reason, many people tend to associate the current public art practices with Minjung art. Minjung Art can be categorized as an activist movement committed to exposing the misdeeds committed by dictatorial regimes in power at the time. The work of Minjung Art eventually helped bring into motion changes in Korean social conditions. Arousal of public opinion, for example, seems to be one of their common approaches to successful execution of their projects.\n\nOasis employed this approach through organizing performances lasting over a month and accompanied by the introduction of an activist measure called squatting. Public art associations held numerous roundtables and symposia on the Art Decoration law to bring attention to the controversy over whether the true ownership of public art pieces lies between owner of the building or the residents of the building and its surrounding areas. Although public art associations must resolve the controversy that their methods could violate the rights of private ownership, their controversy indicates that civil society has come into Korea.\n\nThe demand of reform in administrative practices against the government’s funding agencies shows that such movements only come from the premise based on the political climate in which the government is forced to remain tuned to public opinion. One of the attributes of Korean public art practices can be stated as the majority of artists who are succeeding the socially engaging spirit of Minjung are now taking contemporary approaches focusing on finding resolutions for current social issues as the country’s political climate changes.\n"}
{"id": "40949254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40949254", "title": "Radical cheerleading", "text": "Radical cheerleading\n\nRadical cheerleading is a performative style of political activism, derived from mainstream cheerleading. Radical cheerleading combines elements of peaceful protest or non-violent direct action with theatrical elements including costuming, spectacle and choreographed dance. Radical cheerleading was created by sisters Cara, Aimee and Colleen Jennings in Miami, Florida, in 1996. It grew to become an international movement with squads in the United States, Canada and Europe. Radical cheerleaders create and adapt cheers that promote feminism and left-wing ideals. \n\nOver time, radical cheerleading developed into a subculture apart from cheerleading. To understand how radical cheerleading became a culture of its own, it is important to consider the impacts of mainstream cheerleading.\n\nMainstream cheerleading reached new heights of popularity in the 1990s, as it transformed from a form of entertainment to being understood as an athletic sport. The first Cheerleading World Championship took place in 2001, asserting cheerleading as a competitive sport. Still, cheerleaders were (and often still are) consistently stereotyped as unintelligent, ditzy, and promiscuous, as opposed to true athletes. Regular cheerleaders are often hypersexualized and defined by an idealized female body type. Author Christine Ro writes, \"the popular image of cheerleading was still very much of the minimally dressed female cheerleader on the sidelines of a male sports event. This was the image radical cheerleaders seized upon in order to subvert gender messages while serving up peppy support for social justice causes.\"\n\nRadical cheerleaders reclaimed the identity of the cheerleader and re-shaped mainstream cheerleading to include all bodies, as opposed to certain bodies. They transformed cheerleading from a sideshow into the main event. They shifted the focus of cheerleading from sexualized spectacle to the promotion of larger ideas, like civilian empowerment and political awareness. In these ways, radical cheerleading developed into a distinct culture of its own.\n\nMainstream cheerleading is marked by heteronormativity. In contrast, gender non-conformity is a foundation upon which the subculture of radical cheerleading developed. Since its creation, radical cheerleading has been a movement open to all: participants may be male, female, transgender, non-binary or non-gender identified. Often, radical cheerleaders subvert gender norms through costuming and aesthetics. According to author and radical cheerleader Jeanne Vaccaro, the movement was responsible for \"cultivating a queer sensibility.\" The subculture’s inclusion of non-gender-conforming individuals creates a space for all bodies, which in turn creates a uniquely accepting community. This is more than just an open-door policy, but an identifying characteristic of the subculture of radical cheerleading, just as relevant to the movement as the leftist messages it asserts.\nRadical cheerleaders reappropriate the aesthetics of cheerleading, sometimes in an ironic fashion. Radical cheerleaders dress in diverse ways. Radical cheerleading is often marked by a DIY aesthetic, with handmade costumes and props. Some radical cheerleaders make pom-poms using garbage bags by folding them in half, tying off one side with a rubber band and then cutting strips from the other end. \n\nEvery squad has a unique aesthetic of its own. The Dirty Southern Belles, from Memphis, Tennessee, wear the colors pink and black to cheer for gay pride. The Pirate Cheerleaders, a squad from Milwaukee, wear black skirts with white pleats, and shirts with pirate logos when performing at basement punk shows. The New Paltz Rads, a squad from the State University of New York at New Paltz, sport signature colors black and red.\n\nRadical cheerleaders often perform at political demonstrations, festivals and other feminist events, where they lead protest chants. Radical cheerleading is used at demonstrations to promote political messages in a media-friendly, people-friendly way. Radical cheerleaders may also perform on stage at music venues, to bring political issues (as well as entertainment) to an unsuspecting crowd. Chicago's Lickity Split radical cheerleaders frequently used this tactic.\n\nA notable radical cheerleading appearance was at the March for Women's Lives in Washington, DC on April 25, 2004. The participants' aim was to raise awareness about the lack of access low-income women have to abortion clinics.\n\nAnother remarkable demonstration took place at a Taco Bell restaurant in Auburn, Alabama in 2001, where radical cheerleaders gathered to protest for fair wages. Dubbed the \"Taco Bell Protest,\" participants explained to police that the purpose of their demonstration was to protest the business relationship between corporate Taco Bell and the Six L's Packing Company, Inc., a firm that pays employees low wages with zero benefits. The Taco Bell Protest serves as an encapsulating example of all that radical cheerleading stands for: peaceful (if not disruptive) demonstration, DIY construction of protest tools/props, an anti-capitalist agenda, and a demand for fair wages, a classic feminist ideal. \n\nRadical cheerleaders demonstrated at the 2004 Republican National Convention in New York.\n\nThe Resistin' Radicatz, a radical cheerleading squad, performed at the 2004 Million Worker March.\n\nCheers are usually written from scratch or by rewriting the words of popular and historic songs. The first radical cheer book was published in 1997.\n\nAn example of a radical cheer, led by creator Cara Jennings, performed at the 2004 Republican National Convention in New York:\n\nAn example of a cheer performed by the Radical Teen Cheer Squad: \"We're teens, we're cute, we're radical to boot! We're angry, we're tough, and we have had enough!\"\n\nWhile the subculture has received some attention from the media, radical cheerleading receives less media attention than mainstream cheerleading.\n\nIn \"Give Me An F: Radical Cheerleading and Feminist Performance\", radical cheerleader and Author Jeanne Vaccaro describes the process of archiving radical cheerleading through the examination of cheers, zines, photographs and personal testimony from fellow radical cheerleader Mary Xmas.\n\nIn a speech at the National Women's Studies Association in 2004, feminist magazine director Lisa Jervis placed radical cheerleading within a tradition of playful feminist comment on popular culture.\n\nIn August 2004 the New York City Radical Cheerleaders completed \"Don't Let the System Get You Down—Cheer Up\", a video documentary of the Radical Cheerblock at the March for Women's Lives. The video was released in time to celebrate and honor and inspire the hundreds of radical cheerleaders who converged in New York to protest the Republican National Convention.\n\nRadical cheerleading is a style of performance, and is inherently defined by the element of spectacle. Responses within the media have ranged from positive to negative. Sheila Noone, the editorial director of \"American Cheerleader\" magazine, commented that cheerleaders are involved in an \"uphill battle\" towards gaining respect, asserting that radical cheerleading makes this even more difficult. In contrast, Lauren Jack, member of Harvard University's Cheerleading squad, made the statement that cheerleading is \"all about trying to get everyone else excited about your causes, so it's perfect for political activism.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10387377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10387377", "title": "Royal Society of Painter-Printmakers", "text": "Royal Society of Painter-Printmakers\n\nThe Royal Society of Painter-Printmakers (RE), known until 1991 as the Royal Society of Painter-Etchers and Engravers, is an art institution based in London, England. The Royal Society of Painter-Etchers and Engravers was a society of etchers established in London in 1880 and given a Royal Charter in 1888. \n\nThe Society was established as the Society of Painter-Etchers for the promotion of original etching as an art form, inspired by the French group of the same name which existed in Paris. The first six fellows, all elected on 31 July 1880, were Francis Seymour Haden, Heywood Hardy, Hubert von Herkomer, Alphonse Legros, Robert Walker Macbeth and James Tissot (Whistler had a row with his brother-in-law, Haden, and would not join). It achieved its Royal Charter in 1888, becoming the Royal Society of Painter-Etchers and Engravers. Fellow, George W. Eve, designed a new diploma in 1904.\n\nBy 1911, when King George V granted a Charter of Incorporation and Bye-laws, the RE, as it came to be styled, had grown in prestige and become fully established. From 1919, in token of solidarity, Presidents of the Royal Academy have always been elected Honorary Fellows of the RE.\n\nThe Society of Painter-Etchers had remarkably few Presidents. They were: Sir Francis Seymour Haden (1880–1910), Sir Francis Job Short (1910–1938), Malcolm Osborne (1938–1962), Robert Austin (1962–1970), Paul Drury (1970–1975), Harry Eccleston (1975–1989), and Joseph Winkelman (1989–1991), when the Society was renamed. Winkelman continued as President until 1995. Presidents after this were David Carpanini (1995–2003), Anita Klein (2003–2006), Hilary Paynter (2006–11), Dr Bren Unwin (2011–13) and Mychael Barratt (2013–).\n\nIn 1920 the membership was expanded to allow artists who produced prints from media other than metal, which allowed the election of woodcut artists such as Gwen Raverat. Another innovation in the same year was the formation of a Print Collectors' Club to be limited to 300 members each of whom received an annual presentation print.\n\nFull fellows are entitled to use the post-nominals RE. Associates, a class of members established in 1887, can use ARE. \n\nNotable members (and their date of election to a full fellowship) included: Mary Nimmo Moran (1881), William Strang (1881), Joseph Pennell (1882), Auguste Rodin (1882), Charles William Sherborn (1884), Herbert Dicksee (1885), Walter Sickert (1887), Sir David Young Cameron (1895), Margaret Kemp-Welch (1901), Sir Frank Brangwyn (1903), Anna Airy (1908), Eugène Béjot (1908), Ernest Stephen Lumsden (1915), William Walcot (1920), Edmund Blampied (1921), Gerald Brockhurst (1921), Robert Austin (1927), Dame Laura Knight (1932), Sir William Russell Flint (1933), Charles Tunnicliffe (1934), Geoffrey Wedgwood (1934), Joan Hassall (1948) James T.A. Osborne (1957) and Gwenda Morgan (1962). Others were elected as an Associate but did not achieve the full fellowship, such as Eli Marsden Wilson (1907), John Nicolson (1923) and Salomon van Abbé (1923).\n\nThe Society's address is: Bankside Gallery, 48 Hopton Street, London, , England.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7340572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7340572", "title": "Teatro Carlo Felice", "text": "Teatro Carlo Felice\n\nThe Teatro Carlo Felice is the principal opera house of Genoa, Italy, used for performances of opera, ballet, orchestral music, and recitals. It is located on the Piazza De Ferrari.\n\nThe hall is named for Duke Carlo Felice, and dates from 24 December 1824, when the Most Excellent Department of Theatres was established. On 31 January 1825, local architect Carlo Barabino submitted his design for the opera house which was to be built on the site of the church of San Domenico. The Dominican monks were moved elsewhere without delay or ceremony, and the first stone of the new building was laid on 19 March 1826.\n\nThe inaugural performance of Bellini's \"Bianca e Fernando\" took place on 7 April 1828, even though the structure and decoration were not quite finished. The auditorium accommodated an audience of about 2,500 in five tiers (each with 33 boxes), a gallery above, and standing room in the orchestra pit. The acoustics were considered among the best of the time.\n\nFor nearly forty years from 1853, Verdi spent the winter in Genoa, but he had few strong professional ties with the Teatro Carlo Felice. In 1892, Genoa commemorated the 400th anniversary of Columbus' discovery of America and to celebrate the occasion the Carlo Felice was renovated and redecorated at a cost of 420,000 lire (nearly £17,000). Verdi was approached to compose a suitable opera, but he declined the honour, making the excuse that he was too old. Alberto Franchetti's opera \"Cristoforo Colombo\" premiered at the Carlo Felice on 6 October 1892.\n\nThe hall was altered many times in the years 1859-1934, and remained remarkably unscathed by war until 9 February 1941 when a shell fired by a British warship hit the roof, leaving a large hole open to the sky and destroying the ceiling of the auditorium which had been a unique example of 19th-century rococo extravagance, its main feature being a wide circle of angels, cherubs and other winged creatures in brightly painted high relief.\n\nFurther damage was sustained on 5 August 1943 when incendiary bombs started a backstage fire which destroyed all scenery and wooden fittings, but did not reach the main auditorium. Unfortunately additional damage was caused by looters who stripped the back of the theatre of every possible scrap of metal they could find. Finally, an air raid in September 1944 caused the destruction of the front of the theatre leaving virtually only the outside walls and the corridors behind the tiers of boxes standing. What had been the most richly beautiful of opera houses had become a skeleton of bare walls and roofless porticos.\n\nReconstruction plans began immediately after the war's close. The first design by Paolo Antonio Chessa (1951) was rejected; the second by Carlo Scarpa was approved in 1977 but brought to a halt by his untimely death. Aldo Rossi ultimately provided today's design, in which portions of the original facade have been recreated but the interior is entirely modern. The hall officially reopened in June 1991, with a main hall holding up to 2,000 seats and a smaller auditorium holding up to 200 seats.\n\nThe theatre is the main location of the concert seasons of Giovine Orchestra Genovese, a concert society founded in Genoa in 1912.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4868441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4868441", "title": "The Chinese Botanist's Daughters", "text": "The Chinese Botanist's Daughters\n\nLes filles du botaniste (Chinese: 植物园, \"Botanic Garden\") is a French and Canadian film, with the background set as in China. It was released in 2006. Its English title is The Chinese Botanist's Daughters.\n\nVào Trung Quốc những năm 1980, 1990, phim nói về cuộc đời Lý Minh, một cô gái trẻ mồ côi sau trận động đất Đường Sơn, cô được cử đến làm thực tập sinh tại vườn của một giáo sư thực vật học. Ông ta là một người bí ẩn and một người cha gia trưởng, hà khắc. Ông ta sống trên một hòn đảo và biến nó thành khu vườn với vô vàn loại cây thuốc. Sống cùng ông là cô con gái tên Trần An, cô rất vui vẻ khi đón tiếp nữ thực tập sinh mới. Sau đó, tình bạn giữa họ phát triển nhanh và mạnh mẽ dù bị cấm đoán. Incapable of separating themselves, Ming and An create a dangerous arrangement to be able to continue spending their lives together: Ming marries An's brother, who is a People's Liberation Army, PLA soldier and cannot bring his wife with him. However, An and Ming's relationship is discovered by the botanist who has a heart attack when he finds out. Before he dies, he tells police that it was his daughter and daughter-in-law's homosexuality \"disease\" that killed him. Thus, An and Ming are sentenced to death by a court and executed.\n\n\n\nDue to the sensitivity of the topic of homosexuality, this movie was not allowed to be shot in China. It was shot in northern Vietnam instead (mainly in Ba Vì and Hà Tây) to create a similar environment.\n\nMontréal World Film Festival:\n\nToronto Inside Out Lesbian and Gay Film and Video Festival:\n\n"}
{"id": "55473958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55473958", "title": "The Exchange, Twickenham", "text": "The Exchange, Twickenham\n\nThe Exchange, Twickenham is a community building, including a 320-seat theatre, at Brewery Wharf opposite Twickenham railway station in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames. It opened in October 2017. The building is owned by Richmond upon Thames Council and is managed by St Mary's University, Twickenham.\n\nIts programme includes talks, drama performances, film screenings by the local Twickenham Cinema Club, and folk music events organised in partnership with TwickFolk.\n\n"}
{"id": "46532367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46532367", "title": "The Finding of Moses (Alma-Tadema painting)", "text": "The Finding of Moses (Alma-Tadema painting)\n\nThe Finding of Moses is a 1904 painting by the Anglo-Dutch artist Lawrence Alma-Tadema. It was one of his last major works before his death in 1912, but quickly fell out of favour; according to rumour, it was sold in the 1950s for its frame. After appreciation of Victorian painting was renewed towards the end of the 20th century, it was described in an auction catalogue in 1995 as \"the undisputed masterpiece of [Alma-Tadema's] last decade, as well as a late (perhaps the final?) flowering of the nineteenth-century's love-affair with Egypt\". It was sold to a private collector at auction in 2010 for nearly US$36 million.\n\nThe Finding of Moses had been a popular subject for paintings since the Renaissance, with a revival in the 19th century by Orientalist artists keen to add authentic archaeological decor to their depictions.\n\nThe painting was commissioned by Sir John Aird, 1st Baronet for 5,000 guineas, plus expenses. Aird's civil engineering business, John Aird & Co., was responsible for building the first Aswan Dam. Aird invited Alma-Tadema to visit Egypt for the opening of the dam in December 1902, and commissioned him to paint a suitable subject to add to Aird's large collection of academic paintings by the likes of Frederic Leighton, Edward Poynter, and John William Waterhouse, including Alma-Tadema's 1888 work \"The Roses of Heliogabalus\". The commission allowed Alma-Tadema to revisit Egyptian themes from his works in the 1860s.\n\nThe work is a Biblical scene based on chapter 2, verse 6 of the Book of Exodus, in which Pharaoh's daughter comes to wash in the River Nile, and finds the infant Moses abandoned in a basket in the reeds. The painting depicts the scene after the infant has been discovered, showing a procession travelling back to the daughter's abode in Memphis, the capital of the Old Kingdom of Egypt. The Finding of Moses had been a popular scene for painters, especially since the Late Renaissance.\n\nShaven-headed male attendant in white loincloths carry Pharaoh's daughter in an elaborately decorated chair. She wears a pink diaphanous gown and elaborate jewellery, and holds a flail in her left hand, a symbol of royalty; in her right hand, she holds a lotus flower. The style and decoration of her chair is informed by illustrations of Egyptian tomb paintings. Her feet rest on a footstool decorated with bound captives — another symbol of royalty — and also referring to the enslaved Israelites. Hieroglyphic cartouches identify her as the daughter of Ramesses II. It has been claimed that one of Alma-Tadema's daughters sat as the model for Pharaoh's daughter. Two male attendants wave ostrich feather fans, while two female attendants carry Moses in his cradle alongside. The cradle has been decorated with lotus flowers, tied on with a pink ribbon. Another female attendant plays a stringed instrument.\n\nThe painting is composed like a frieze, with bright blues and purples of delphiniums in the foregrounds; the procession passing behind; a space for the river; and then, in the background, on the other bank of the river, teams of slaves can be seen labouring under their dark-skinned overseers, possibly working on the pyramids at Giza on the opposite bank. The blues of the flowers are echoed by the lapis lazuli inlay of the chair, but contrast with yellows, oranges, reds and pinks.\n\nThe plinth and feet of a red granite statue are just visible to the front left, possibly copied from a statue of Seti II in the British Museum. The plinth bears more hieroglyphics, reading \"Beloved of Ra, King of Upper and Lower Egypt,\"\n\nAlma-Tadema worked on the painting for two years. King Edward VII visited Alma-Tadema in his studio while the work was being completed. By the time it was finished, his wife wryly quipped that the infant Moses would now be \"two years old, and need no longer be carried\".\n\nThe painting was exhibited at the Royal Academy summer exhibition in 1905; the same year, Alma-Tadema became one of the first 18 members of the Order of Merit. The work was received with warm but not enthusiastic praise.\n\nAlma-Tadema's works fell dramatically out of favour after his death in 1912, but provided inspiration for the set designers of Biblical epics such as D. W. Griffith's \"Intolerance\" (1916), and Cecil B. DeMille's \"Cleopatra\" (1934) and \"The Ten Commandments\" (1956) (in 1968 Mario Amaya published an article in \"The Sunday Times\" entitled \"The Painter who Inspired Hollywood\").\n\nAfter Aird's death in 1911, the painting was inherited by his son Sir John Richard Aird, 2nd Baronet, and then following his death in 1934 it was sold by his son Sir John Renton Aird, 3rd Baronet at Christie's in London in May 1935, and acquired by an art dealer for 820 guineas. The painting was sold to Sir Jeremiah Colman, 1st Baronet, and then after his death in January 1942 it was auctioned at Christie's in September 1942, acquired by a different dealer for 260 guineas. It was sold to F. W. Reeves of Wolverhampton, and then sold at a country auction in September 1950, and acquired by London dealer Newman.\n\nIn a widely reported, but probably apocryphal, story, the painting was reputedly sold to an English couple for a small sum. They had no interest in the unfashionable painting, buying the work for the frame, by Thomas Maw: after leaving the dealers, they removed the painting from its frame, and the artwork was found minutes later abandoned in an alley in St James's near the gallery. Bernard Hart, a director of Newman's at the time, wrote to \"The Times\" to dispute the story: in his account, more prosaically, the gallery failed to find a museum willing to take the picture, even as a gift, and it remained unsold when sent to Christie's by Newman's in December 1960. It was \"bought in\" by the auction house, and eventually acquired to decorate the walls of the Clock House Restaurant near Welwyn in Hertfordshire.\n\nThe painting was sold to the London art dealers in July 1967, and sold on to Ira Spanierman Galleries in New York shortly afterwards for $8,500; in turn, they sold it on to Allen Funt for $25,000. Funt was the producer of \"Candid Camera\", and a collector of Alma-Tadema's at a time when his works remained deeply unfashionable. The painting was included in an exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in March and April 1973, entitled \"Victorians in Togas\". After Funt experienced financial troubles, he sold the painting along with the rest of his collection at Sotheby's in London in November 1973, for around $72,000. Reportedly, he kept the original frames and put in photos of the paintings that he had sold.\n\nThe painting was bought by a private collector, and then sold to another private collector at Christie's in New York in May 1995 for US$2,752,500, before being sold again at Sotheby's for US$35,922,500 (including buyer's premium) in November 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "36589067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36589067", "title": "The Nightingale casting controversy", "text": "The Nightingale casting controversy\n\nIn 2012, the La Jolla Playhouse generated nationwide controversy for the casting of a musical adaptation of a Hans Christian Andersen story \"The Nightingale\", set in ancient China. The play was part of the La Jolla Playhouse's \"Page to Stage\" program, a workshop series in which unfinished new works are tested and altered during the show's run. Two Asian-American actors were cast, and the remainder of the cast were African-American and Caucasian. The Asian American Theatre Community expressed their indignity on the lack of Asian-American actors cast.\n\nThe casting controversy generated significant response from the Asian American theater and artistic community, particularly because similar controversies have occurred in the past, as when Jonathan Pryce was cast to play the Eurasian lead in the musical, \"Miss Saigon\".\n\nDuring a public forum to address the debate, the idea for which having been generated by a letter of protest from the Asian American Performers' Action Coalition, Christopher Ashley, the current Artistic Director of the La Jolla Playhouse, stated that it was his effort to follow a multi-ethnic casting principle for the play. Ashley and director Moises Kaufman both expressed an understanding and acknowledgement of the criticisms, and clarified their ongoing focus, through the play's series of workshops, to explore multiple ways of telling the story through a multi-cultural lens. Kaufman later told the Los Angeles Times that his intention was to combine elements of both Eastern and Western cultures and that he was open to a version of the show with an all-Asian cast.\n\nSpeaking from the audience, book writer Steven Sater addressed the issue in depth. He stated that the play, based on the Danish fairy tale \"The Nightingale\" which is written by Hans Christian Andersen and set in ancient China, had gone through seven workshops \"in a number of directions with a number of directors\" over the course of its development, with each exploring his overall vision of the piece. He described his vision as comprising a blend of cultures with a focus on the mythical elements and heritage of the fable on which it was based, in lieu of traditional realism.\n\nIn 2003, the show's first workshop took place at the O'Neill Conference and utilized a multi-cultural cast, including an African-American actress playing the Empress Dowager and an Indian-American actor playing the Young Emperor, which Sater described as \"a beautiful casting choice at the time\" and demonstrative of the play being \"always a story about enlightenment.\"\n\nIn 2007, the play was workshopped at the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco with director James Lapine, and utilized an all-Asian cast. Sater acknowledged the significant part in the show's development process that this particular workshop played, saying:\n\nIt was a beautiful workshop of the piece. But we all came out of it feeling a number of things, one of which was that we felt, as white creators, we would not presume to know, or to tell, the story of Asia. We felt that the music which existed for the piece, and the storytelling, which more than anything else is informed by Shakespeare, really, is my influence, and coming from a Danish telling of the story. I wanted to tell a story that reflected the world in which I live, which is multi-cultural, and multi-ethnic. I still feel this.\n\nDuring the forum, Sater acknowledged the sociopolitical issues arising out of the \"longstanding inequities of the system in American theater\" and the need \"as an artist of social consciousness to be mindful of those issues and to address them.\" He stated, \"When I began work on this show, it was in 2001. It was in the wake of 9/11 and what spoke to me in this story was the way \"The Song of the Human Heart\" could bring down the walls that divide us.\" Sater also expanded on his influences in writing the play, saying:\n\nI also have to address what's in my heart, and my artistic vision for this piece. I think if art is anything, it exists to bring out the humanity in all of us and that is what we're trying to tell in the song of this bird, the nightingale, who brings out the humanity in a man whose heart has been closed and turned cold. We did not set out to do an all-Asian cast, an all-Asian version, and then give up on that idea. Rather, it's something we explored, as this cast is something we're exploring, on a piece that remains to be finished. I was writing for a vision that was in my mind, and that vision always was, and remains to be, multi-cultural, and multi-ethnic; and however imperfect its realization here may be, that's the vision I continue to embrace for the piece.\n\nComposer Duncan Sheik stated in an interview after the panel that the discussion had \"affected my thinking of the show. My head is spinning.\"\n\nIn 2011, the musical was workshopped at Vassar's Powerhouse Theater with a multi-ethnic cast (also directed by Kaufman).\n\n\nWith Nikki Castillo, Bobby Steggert, Charlayne Woodard, Kimiko Glenn, Eisa Davis, Jonathan Hammond, Corbin Reid, Aaron Serotsky, Steve Gunderson, Matthew Patrick Davis, Chelsea Diggs-Smith and Zach Martens.\n\nPerformance Dates: July 10 – August 5, 2012, Sheila and Hughes Potiker Theatre\n"}
{"id": "56424975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56424975", "title": "The Shock (TV Program)", "text": "The Shock (TV Program)\n\nThe Shock or Alsadma (), is a television program of the category of hidden camera, which was shown on MBC 1 in Ramadan 2016, and it was a great success, which made the production company envision a second season, which was shown throughout the Ramadan of 2017. Starring Alaa Huusein and Karim Kojak.\n\nSilvia Caos and Raúl Farell starred as protagonists.\n\n\nAfter the success of the first season, the team decided to add other countries to the list of countries in which the program is being filmed. The country was chosen from the Persian Gulf, Jordan and Europe from Germany, then from North Africa, Morocco, but the latter replaced Tunisia until the last words. After the \"Moroccan Ministry of Communication\" refused to grant the license to the team, citing that \"the program discredits Morocco and that it affects the rights of women and children.\"\n"}
{"id": "15710823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15710823", "title": "The Tribute Money (Masaccio)", "text": "The Tribute Money (Masaccio)\n\nThe Tribute Money is a fresco by the Italian Early Renaissance painter Masaccio, located in the Brancacci Chapel of the basilica of Santa Maria del Carmine, Florence. Painted in the 1420s, it is widely considered among Masaccio's best work, and a vital part of the development of renaissance art.\n\nThe painting is part of a cycle on the life of Saint Peter, and describes a scene from the Gospel of Matthew, in which Jesus directs Peter to find a coin in the mouth of a fish in order to pay the temple tax. Its importance relates to its revolutionary use of perspective and \"chiaroscuro\". \"The Tribute Money\" suffered great damage in the centuries after its creation, until the chapel went through a thorough restoration in the 1980s.\n\nThe Brancacci Chapel, in the basilica of Santa Maria del Carmine, was founded around 1366/7 by Felice Brancacci. The chapel passed to Piero's nephew, Felice Brancacci, who some time between 1423 and 1425 commissioned the painter Masolino to decorate the walls with a series of frescoes from the life of Saint Peter. Peter was the name-saint of the founder, and the patron saint of the Brancacci family, but the choice also reflected support for the Roman papacy during the Great Schism.\n\nAt some point Masolino was joined by another artist, the eighteen years younger Masaccio. Masolino eventually left, either for Hungary in 1425 or for Rome in 1427, leaving the completion of the chapel to Masaccio. In 1427 or 28, before the chapel was completed, Masaccio joined Masolino in Rome. Only in the 1480s were the frescos in the chapel finished, by Filippino Lippi. \"The Tribute Money\", though, is considered Masaccio's work entirely.\n\nOver the centuries the frescoes were greatly altered and damaged. In 1746 the upper levels were painted over by the artist Vincenzo Meucci, covering up most of Masolino's work. Then, in 1771, the church was ruined by fire. The Brancacci Chapel, though structurally undamaged by the fire, suffered great damages to its frescoes. It was not until the years 1981–1990 that a full-scale restoration of the chapel was undertaken, restoring the frescoes to approximately their original state. The paintings had suffered some irreparable damage though, particularly the parts that were painted \"a secco\": in \"The Tribute Money\", the leaves on the trees were gone, while Christ's robe had lost much of its original azure brilliance.\n\nThe scene depicted in \"The Tribute Money\" is drawn from :\n\nThe story is only found in the Gospel of Matthew, which according to Christian tradition was written by the apostle Matthew, himself a tax collector according to . The passage has been used as a Christian justification for the legitimacy of secular authority, and is often seen in conjunction with another passage, the \"render unto Caesar...\" story. In , a group of Pharisees try to trick Christ into incriminating himself, by asking if it is \"lawful to give tribute unto Caesar, or not.\" Pointing out Caesar's image on the coin, he replies \"Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's; and unto God the things that are God's.\"\n\nThe painting diverges somewhat from the biblical story, in that the tax collector confronts the whole group of Christ and the disciples, and the entire scene takes place outdoors. The story is told in three parts that do not occur sequentially, but the narrative logic is still maintained, through compositional devises. The central scene is that of the tax collector demanding the tribute. The head of Christ is the vanishing point of the painting, drawing the eyes of the spectator there. Both Christ and Peter then point to the left hand part of the painting, where the next scene takes place in the middle background: Peter taking the money out of the mouth of the fish. The final scene – where Peter pays the tax collector – is at the right, set apart by the framework of an architectural structure.\n\nThis work maintains a heavy importance in the Art History world, as it is widely believed to be the first painting, since the fall of Rome (ca. 476 AD), to use Scientific Linear One Point Perspective, or, all the orthogonals point to one vanishing point, in this case, Christ. Also, it is one of the first paintings that does away with the use of a head-cluster. A technique employed by earlier Proto-Renaissance artists, such as Giotto or Duccio. If you were to walk into the painting, you could walk around Jesus Christ, in the semicircle created, and back out the painting again with ease.\n\nChrist and the disciples are placed in a semicircle, reflecting the shape of the chapel's apse. The tax collector, on the other hand, stands outside the holy space. While the group of holy men are dressed almost entirely in robes of pastel pink and blue, the official wears a shorter tunic of a striking vermilion. The colour adds to the impertinence expressed through his gestures. Another way contrast is achieved is in the way – both in the central scene and on the right – the tax collector's postures are copying almost exactly those of Peter, only seen from the opposite angle. This gives a three-dimensional quality to the figures, allowing the spectator to view them from all sides.\n\nMasaccio is often compared to contemporaries like Donatello and Brunelleschi as a pioneer of the renaissance, particularly for his use of single-point perspective. One technique that was unique to Masaccio, however, was the use of atmospheric, or aerial perspective. Both the mountains in the background, and the figure of Peter on the left are dimmer and paler than the objects in the foreground, creating an illusion of depth. This technique was known in ancient Rome, but was considered lost until reinvented by Masaccio.\n\nMasaccio's use of light was also revolutionary. While earlier artists like Giotto had applied a flat, neutral light from an unidentifiable source, Masaccio's light emanated from a specific location outside the picture, casting the figures in light and shadow. This created a \"chiaroscuro\" effect, sculpting the bodies into three-dimensional shapes.\n\nMasaccio is often justly praised for the variety of his facial depictions. In the case of this painting the accolade is somewhat diminished, however, by the fact that the work was unfinished at the time of his death, and the heads of Jesus and St Peter were painted by his senior collaborator Masolino da Panicale, (who painted the corresponding perspective work on the other side of the Chapel, \"Healing of the Cripple and Raising of Tabitha\".\n\nSeveral theories have been proposed as to why this specific subject – not a very common theme in art history – was chosen. One suggestion sees the painting as a justification for the so-called \"catasto\" of 1427; a new form of income tax. This is not a very likely explanation, however, as Brancacci would stand to lose from the new taxation, and would probably rather have been among its opponents. A more probable explanation links the painting to Pope Martin V's 1423 agreement that the Florentine church be subjected to state tax. The money found in the fish's mouth can also be seen as an expression of how Florence's wealth came from the sea. Felice Brancacci, a silk merchant involved in Mediterranean trade, was also a member of the city's Board of Maritime Consuls.\n\nCentral to an understanding of the painting, as well as the entire series, is the relationship the Brancaccis and the city of Florence had with the papacy in Rome. Florence was at the time at war with Milan, and needed the support of the Pope. The Brancacci frescos must therefore be seen in the context of a pro-papal policy, and as an attempt to legitimise the Roman see through its association with Saint Peter – the first bishop of Rome, and first pope.\n\nIn the story, Peter is clearly singled out among the disciples, and his strong connection with Christ can be seen in Christ's words \"for me and thee\". Peter appears a majestic and energetic figure when he is with Christ and when he performs his work, in contrast to the diminutive shape on the left. This all points forward to his apostolic role as Christ's vicar on earth. As such \"The Tribute Money\" represents a transitional scene in the chapel; in doing Christ's bidding Peter goes from being a disciple to being the master.\n\nOnly two of the disciples can be identified with any degree of certainty: Peter with his iconographic grey hair and beard, and blue and yellow attire, and John; the young beardless man standing next to Christ. John's head is reminiscent of Roman sculptures, and it is reflected in the very similar face of another disciple on the right. The person next to this disciple is assumed to be Judas, whose dark and sinister face mirrors that of the tax collector. It has been speculated – first by Vasari – that the face on the far right is a self-portrait of Masaccio himself, as Thomas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6803280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6803280", "title": "Theatre Rhinoceros", "text": "Theatre Rhinoceros\n\nTheatre Rhinoceros or Theatre Rhino is a gay and lesbian theatre based in San Francisco. It was founded in the spring of 1977 by Lanny Baugniet (who became the theater's General Manager) and his partner Allan B. Estes, Jr. (who became the theater's Artistic Director). It is a non-profit theater company dedicated to the production of plays by and about gay and lesbian people.\n\nTheatre Rhinoceros is the first gay theater company to employ actors under a professional seasonal agreement. The company was recognized by the California State Assembly on its twenty-fifth anniversary and again as a pioneering organization at the twenty-fifth anniversary remembrance of assassinated San Francisco Supervisor Harvey Milk.\n\nTheir first production, mounted in August 1977, was Lanford Wilson's \"The Madness of Lady Bright\", at the Gay Community Center (then located at 330 Grove Street in San Francisco, now the site of the Performing Arts Parking Garage), produced by Baugniet, and directed by Estes. That first season continued with \"Gays at Play\", \"Stone Rhino\", \"Gayhem\", and David Guerdon's \"The Laundry\", directed by Baugniet. The operating budget for that first year was $3,900 — an amount which doubled every year for the company's first seven years of operation to $250,000 for its 1983–1984 season.\n\nThe 1978–1979 season opened with a revamping of \"Gays at Play\", which consisted of LeRoi Jones' \"The Baptism\" (directed by Estes) and Fred Puliafito's \"Para de Noya\" (directed by Baugniet) — but it was the monumental success of the next production, Doric Wilson's \"West Street Gang\" (performed at the South of Market leather bar The Black & Blue), that won the company's first Cable Car Award and enabled the company to establish residence in its first home at the Goodman Building at 1115 Geary Street. The season concluded with \"Male Rites\", which included C.D. Arnold's \"Downtown Local\", Robert Chesley's \"Hell, I Love You\", Lanford Wilson's \"The Great Nebula in Orion\", and Cal Yeomans's \"Richmond Jim\", which production also toured to New York.\n\nThe 1979–1980 season was dedicated to a festival of plays by Robert Patrick which included \"See Other Side\", \"Fred and Harold\", \"The Loves of the Artists\", \"Haunted Host\", \"Kennedy's Children\", \"T-Shirts\", and \"My Cup Ranneth Over\". The season concluded with Doric Wilson's \"A Perfect Relationship\". By this time, Baugniet had written successful grants for the fledgling theater company from the City & County of San Francisco, the California Arts Council, and the National Endowment for the Arts, and he had formulated a successful subscription campaign that was second only in numbers to the American Conservatory Theater in the San Francisco Bay Area.\n\nThe 1980–1981 season consisted of Doric Wilson's \"Forever After\", Joel Schwartz's \"Power Lines\", Noel Grieg's \"The Dear Love of Comrades\", Harvey Fierstein's \"The International Stud\", Victor Bumbalo's \"Kitchen Duty\" and \"American Coffee\", and Arch Brown's \"News Boy\". Theatre Rhinoceros also opened its studio theater during this season with Cal Yeomans' \"The Line Forms to the Rear\" and Dan Curzon's \"Beer and Rhubarb Pie\", and hired its third full-time employee, Raleigh Waugh, as Technical Director.\n\nThe 1981–1982 season opened with C.D. Arnold's \"Dinosaurs\", the final production at the Goodman Building, after which the company moved into its quarters at the Redstone Building at 2926 16th Street. The inaugural productions in the company's new theatre were Harvey Fierstein's \"Fugue in a Nursery\" on the main stage and Robert Chesley's \"Stray Dog Story\" in the studio. The remaining main stage productions for that year were George Birimisa's \"Pogey Bait\", Doric Wilson's \"Street Theater\", Noël Coward's \"Design for Living\", and a revival of \"T-Shirts\".\n\nThe 1982–1983 main stage season consisted of Robert Graham's \"Sins of the Father\", Jane Chambers' \"My Blue Heaven\", Arthur Laurents' \"The Enclave\", Victor Bumbalo's \"Niagara Falls\", C.D. Arnold's \"King of the Crystal Palace\" (one of the first produced plays to deal with AIDS), and a revival of \"A Perfect Relationship\".\n\nThe 1983–1984 main stage season included Bill Russell's \"Fortune\", Tennessee Williams' \"Vieux Carré\", Jane Chambers' \"A Late Snow\", Richard Benner's \"Crystal Blaze\", Adele Prandini's \"Safe Light\", Lanford Wilson's \"5th of July\" (it was during the run of this play that Estes died of AIDS), and Richard Gray's \"Bad Drama\".\n\nAfter Estes' death, Baugniet turned the theater over to his staff and retired into private life. Including studio productions and staged readings, he had produced over one hundred titles for the theater company. Baugniet's papers are housed at the GLBT Historical Society in San Francisco and the Bancroft Library at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nUnder the artistic direction of Kristine Gannon (1984–1987), The Rhino continued to realize Estes' vision. Committed to exploring the impact of AIDS on the gay community, The Rhino produced several important new plays, including the collaboratively written \"The AIDS Show: Artists Involved with Death and Survival\" and an updated version titled \"Unfinished Business\" that was the subject of a PBS documentary by Rob Epstein and Peter Adair, Doug Holsclaw's \"Life of the Party\" and \"The Baddest of Boys\", Leland Moss's \"Quisbies\", Robert Pitman's \"Passing\", Anthony Bruno's \"Soul Survivor\", and the Henry Mach–Paul Katz (not to be confused with cellist Paul Katz), musical \"Dirty Dreams of a Clean-Cut Kid\", as well as cult classics like Tom Eyen's \"Women Behind Bars\". Charles Solomon (1987-1988) and Kenneth R. Dixon (1988-1990) expanded The Rhino's boundaries of inclusiveness by staging several African-American productions.\n\nUnder the leadership of Artistic Director Adele Prandini (1990–1999), the Rhino forged partnerships with many groups, including Luna Sea, Teatro de la Esperanza, Black Artists Contemporary Cultural Experience, The Asian AIDS Project, and the Latino/a AIDS Festival. It received commendations from the City of Berkeley, the City and County of San Francisco, and the State of California on its fifteenth and twentieth anniversaries. \n\nPrandini continued as an artistic force writing and directing \"Coconut\", directing Chay Yew's \"Porcelain\" and \"Beyond Bagdad\", a wildly successful musical written by Pamela Forrest and Doug Holsclaw. Holsclaw continued as Rhino's most important male writers, with works including \"Don't Make Me Say Things that will Hurt You\", directed by Sabin Epstein, \"Out Calls Only\", \"The Plunge\", and \"The Sensational Sin Sisters\", directed by Prandini, and \"The Last Hairdresser\", directed by Danny Scheie, which won a Critics Circle Award (tie) for Best New Play.\n\nDoug Holsclaw (1999–2003) presided over the premiere of new works by Marga Gomez, Latin Hustle, Jason Post, John Fisher, F. Allen Sawyer, Marvin White, and Guillermo Reyes. The entire twenty-fifth anniversary season was celebrated with world premiere works by Johari Jabir, Sara Moore, Fisher, Kate Bornstein, and Ronnie Larsen as well as special performances by Kate Clinton and Gomez.\n\nNow in its twenty-ninth year and under the artistic direction of Fisher, Theatre Rhinoceros remains committed to Allan Estes' original vision of developing and producing works of theatre that enlighten, enrich, and explore all aspects of the gay community.\n\n2004 saw the first full American staging of Alan Bennett's \"Single Spies\" (two one-acts: \"An Englishman Abroad\" and \"A Question of Attribution\"), which was co-directed by John Fisher and Jeffrey Hartgraves. Featuring John Fisher, Jeffrey Hartgraves, Libby O'Connell, Matt Weimer, Greg Lucey, and Dominick Marrone.\n\n2005 featured the holiday production of George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart's classic farce \"The Man Who Came to Dinner\", starring a collection of some of the Bay Area's best-known local actors, including Floriana Alessandria, David Bicha, P. A. Cooley, Matthew Martin, Kim Larsen, Matt Weimer, Libby O'Connell, and Jeffrey Hartgraves.\n\n2006 featured the remounting of the critically acclaimed \"Family Jewels: the Making of Veronica Klaus\" by Jeffrey Hartgraves and Veronica Klaus, directed by Jeffrey Hartgraves. This production was subsequently brought back for another run in 2007.\n\n2007 brought innovation and experimentation with the creation of The Studio Project \"There's Something About Marriage\" which explored the issues and opinions surrounding the topic of gay marriage. Conceived and created by John Fisher, David Bicha, and Maryssa Wanlass. With cameos by Drew Todd, Jeffrey Hartgraves, and Matthew Martin. This year also saw the first staging of \"Shark Bites (a very nearly solo show)\" written by and starring Jeffrey Hartgraves. Directed by Libby O'Connell and featuring Drew Todd, P. A. Cooley, David Bicha, davidmahr, and T.J. Lee. This show was remounted in 2008.\n\nIn 2009, the rising cost of rent caused Theatre Rhino to vacate the Redstone Building. Subsequent shows have been produced at multiple venues across San Francisco, primarily at the Eureka Theater at 215 Jackson Street.\n\n"}
{"id": "6275284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6275284", "title": "Theological aesthetics", "text": "Theological aesthetics\n\nTheological aesthetics is the interdisciplinary study of theology and aesthetics, and has been defined as being \"concerned with questions about God and issues in theology in the light of and perceived through sense knowledge (sensation, feeling, imagination), through beauty, and the arts\". This field of study is broad and includes not only a theology of beauty, but also the dialogue between theology and the arts, such as dance, drama, film, literature, music, poetry, and the visual arts.\n\nNotable theologians and philosophers that have dealt with this subject include Augustine of Hippo, Thomas Aquinas, Martin Luther, Jonathan Edwards, Søren Kierkegaard, Karl Barth, and Hans Urs von Balthasar, among others.\n\nTheological aesthetics has recently seen rapid growth as a subject for discussions, publications, and advanced academic studies.\n\nTheological writings during the period of the early Christian church which deal with aesthetics span from circa 160 to c. 650 and include writings by Justin Martyr, Irenaeus, Origen, Augustine of Hippo, Pseudo-Dionysius, and Maximus the Confessor, among others. Prevalent themes during this period included \"the vision of God or of God's glory, the image of God in Christ and in us, and the concern with idol worship\".\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Western theologians such as Anselm of Canterbury, John Scotus Eriugena, Bonaventure, Thomas Aquinas, Nicholas of Cusa, and Bernard of Clairvaux touched upon themes such as \"the idea of beauty, the vision of God, the image of Christ, the iconodule-iconoclast conflict, and the strong presence of personally grounded and poetic doxologies\".\n\nConcerning aesthetics, the theologians of the 16th century Protestant Reformation (Martin Luther, Jean Calvin, and Huldrych Zwingli) dealt primarily with \"the theology of the image, in particular, idolatry and iconoclasm\".\n\nTheological aesthetics increased in diversity during this period, with activity such as \"the composition of hymns in Protestant circles, Edwards' writing on beauty, the Romantic artists and intellectuals with their panentheist sensibilities, Schleiermacher's idea of religion as feeling and intuition, the decline of religious art, and the ground-breaking philosophical contributions of thinkers such as Burke, Baumgarten, Kant and Hegel.\"\n\nSome major themes which emerged and developed in the 20th century included the question of \"how art can function as a source of and in theology\" (Tillich, Rahner, Dillenberger), the question of \"the art work as a shaper of meaning in today's culture\" (Burch Brown, Cox, Küng), \"the essential role of imagination in theology\" (Lynch, McIntyre, Green), and the beauty of God (van der Leeuw, Barth, von Balthasar). Rookmaaker helpfully sought to provide a reformed Christian critique of art and aesthetics in the cultural and political upheavals of the 1960s in his book 'Modern Art and the Death of a Culture'.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28925587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28925587", "title": "Through Art – to Peace and Understanding", "text": "Through Art – to Peace and Understanding\n\nThrough Art – to Peace and Understanding is an award made in Belarus to people of culture and arts, artistic groups or organizations who have made significant contribution to international cultural cooperation, promoting the achievements and examples of world culture based on humanistic ideals and values.\n\nThe award is presented by the President of Belarus or its authorized officer on the opening ceremony of the International Art Festival \"Slavianski Bazaar in Vitebsk\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13009391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13009391", "title": "Tomb of Antipope John XXIII", "text": "Tomb of Antipope John XXIII\n\nThe Tomb of Antipope John XXIII is the marble-and-bronze tomb monument of Antipope John XXIII (Baldassare Cossa, c. 1360–1419), created by Donatello and Michelozzo for the Florence Baptistry adjacent to the Duomo. It was commissioned by the executors of Cossa's will after his death on December 22, 1419 and completed during the 1420s, establishing it as one of the early landmarks of Renaissance Florence. According to Ferdinand Gregorovius, the tomb is \"at once the sepulchre of the Great Schism in the church and the last papal tomb which is outside Rome itself\".\n\nCossa had a long history of cooperation with Florence, which had viewed him as the legitimate pontiff for a time during the Western Schism. The tomb monument is often interpreted as an attempt to strengthen the legitimacy of Cossa's pontificate by linking him to the spiritually powerful site of the Baptistry. The evocation of papal symbolism on the tomb and the linkage between Cossa and Florence have been interpreted as a snub to Cossa's successor Pope Martin V or vicarious \"Medici self-promotion\", as such a tomb would have been deemed unacceptable for a Florentine citizen.\n\nThe tomb monument's design included figures of the three Virtues in niches, Cossa's family arms, a gilded bronze recumbent effigy laid out above an inscription-bearing sarcophagus supported on corbel brackets, and above it a Madonna and Child in a half-lunette, with a canopy over all. At the time of its completion, the monument was the tallest sculpture in Florence, and one of very few tombs within the Baptistry or the neighboring Duomo. The tomb monument was the first of several collaborations between Donatello and Michelozzo, and the attribution of its various elements to each of them has been debated by art historians, as have the interpretations of its design and iconography.\n\nAntipope John XXIII had a complicated life, legacy, and relationship with the city of Florence. Baldassare Cossa was a Neapolitan nobleman who grew up in Bologna. Pope Boniface IX elevated Cossa to the Archdiocese of Bologna in 1396 and made him a cardinal in 1402. After the Council of Pisa in 1409, Cossa encouraged rebellion against Pope Gregory XII, who refused to resign. Cossa was deprived of his cardinalate, but it was restored by Antipope Alexander V, who had been elected by the council.\n\nCossa succeeded Alexander V as John XXIII in 1410. John XXIII was acknowledged as pope by France, England, Bohemia, Prussia, Portugal, parts of the Holy Roman Empire, and numerous Northern Italian city states, including Florence and Venice; however, the Avignon Pope Benedict XIII was regarded as pope by the Kingdoms of Aragon, Castile, and Scotland and Gregory XII was still favored by Ladislaus of Naples, Carlo I Malatesta, the princes of Bavaria, Louis III, Elector of the Palatinate, and parts of Germany and Poland.\n\nWhen Ladislaus of Naples conquered Rome in 1413, John XXIII was forced to flee to Florence. He was compelled by Sigismund, Holy Roman Emperor, to convoke the Council of Constance in 1414, although when the threat to his pontificate and possibly his person became apparent, he fled in 1415. Although he expected his departure would disperse the council, the members of which he called to join him under the protection of Frederick IV, Duke of Austria, it continued to operate where they were. As John XXIII tried to make his way towards the territory of John II, Duke of Burgundy, Frederick IV surrendered him to the custody of Sigismund and the Council, and he was imprisoned by Louis III.\n\nIn the meantime, the Council deposed John XXIII on May 29, 1415 and elected Pope Martin V on November 11, 1417; Martin V proceeded to Florence in February 1419. Cossa was ransomed by the Republic of Florence in 1419 (Louis III had abandoned the allegiance of Sigismund in 1417), as orchestrated by Giovanni di Bicci de' Medici. His ransom may have been a reward for past assistance to Florence, or a manoeuvre to put pressure on Martin V (still in Florence; he would arrive in Rome in September 1420), or both. Cossa had helped Florence conquer Pisa in 1405 in his capacity as Papal legate to Bologna and, as pope, had designated the Medici bank as the depository-general for the papal finances.\n\nIn Florence, Cossa submitted to Martin V on June 14, 1419 and was rewarded with a cardinal's hat on June 26, only to die on December 22. Although given the title of Cardinal Bishop of Tusculum, Cossa called himself \"Cardinal of Florence\".\n\nCossa's body was moved to the Baptistry and the nine-day funeral, as prescribed by the \"Ordo Romanus\", was well-attended by the Florentine elite and the papal court. Cossa's corpse was crowned with a white mitre with his cardinal's hat at his feet on the funerary bier during the rituals, which took place entirely within the Baptistry and Duomo. The first three days of ceremonies celebrated in turn Cossa's role as cardinal and pope, his role as an ally of Florence, and his role as a private citizen. He received a temporary burial until the tomb was complete.\n\nThe commissioning of Cossa's tomb monument was negotiated for about a decade following Cossa's death. Cossa's last will and testament—written on his death bed on December 22, 1419—made several of the customary Florentine civic bequests, acts of charity, and traditional ecclesiastical courtesies, but the bulk of his estate was left to his nephews Michele and Giovanni. The bequests to his nephews took priority, and his estate remained disputed by various creditors while the tomb was being completed.\n\nCossa designated four prominent Florentines as his executors: Bartolommeo di Taldo Valori, Niccolò da Uzzano, Giovanni di Bicci de' Medici, and Vieri Guadagni, allowing any two of the executors to act on behalf of all four, as Valori and Medici appear to have done. Valori died on September 2, 1427, by which time Guadagni was also deceased and Uzzano had long lost interest, leaving the remaining work of commissioning entirely to Giovanni, or—more likely—Cosimo de' Medici.\n\nThe executors claimed that Cossa had revealed his desire for burial in the Baptistry to them but had been too modest to request it in his will. Most later scholars accept this testimony of the executors, attributing Cossa with \"tact—and tactics\", although at least one has postulated that the executors chose the site of the Baptistry against Cossa's wishes.\nDocumentary records indicate that, on January 9, 1421, Palla Strozzi, on behalf of the Arte di Calimala, the guild who were responsible for the upkeep of the Baptistry, authorized a \"breve et honestissima\" (\"small and inconspicuous\") monument in the Baptistry, but not the chapel requested by Cossa's will; present scholarship accepts Strozzi's assertion that burial within the Baptistry was a considerable honor, perhaps beyond the status of Cossa. After this meeting, there are no extant records from the Calimala regarding the tomb as the bulk of documents from the 1420s have been lost, although the notes of Senatore Carlo Strozzi, who went through the records, are extant.\n\nThe Calimala's acquiescence is traditionally explained by Cossa's donation of the relic of the right index finger of John the Baptist (and 200 florins for an appropriate reliquary) to the Baptistry. With this finger John was believed to have pointed to Jesus, saying \"Ecce Agnus Dei\" (\"Behold the lamb of God\") in . The long and complicated history of the relic would only have increased the legendary status of the finger: Philotheus Kokkinos, Patriarch of Constantinople presented it in 1363 to Pope Urban V, who passed it to his successors Gregory XI and Urban VI, who was dispossessed of it during the siege of Nocera, after which John XXIII bought it for 800 florins and wore it on his person before hiding it in the monastery of Santa Maria degli Angeli.\n\nThe chronology of the tomb monument's completion is not precisely known, but portions can be determined from various sources. According to the passing reference of a Florentine notary, in 1424 (by the Florentine calendar) part of the tomb was installed. Michelozzo's \"Catasto\" from July 1427 indicates that Michelozzo had been Donatello's partner for about two years (\"due anni o incircha\") and that three-fourths of the 800 florin budget had been spent. To harmonize these accounts, one must conclude either that Michelozzo's chronology was imprecise, that Donatello received the commission before the partnership was formed, or that the 1424 date in the Florentine calendar falls in 1425 in the modern calendar.\n\nOn February 2, 1425, Bartolomeo Valori and Cosimo de' Medici requested 400 of the 800 florins that had been deposited with the Calimala, likely for work already completed. This deposit was insurance in case the executors left the tomb unfinished and the Calimala was forced to pay for its completion, as it had been obliged to with the finger reliquary. This request is also the most direct piece of evidence for Cosimo's involvement with the commissioning. Despite this document, Vasari's claim in his \"Vite\" of 1550 that Cosimo was responsible for the handling of the commission has been questioned.\n\nIt is probable that the sarcophagus was installed on or shortly before May 2, 1426, when the Calimala contracted for two chaplains to say a daily mass for Cossa's soul. The records of the Duomo workshop indicate that on January 28, 1427 Valori bought four white marble blocks for the tomb.\n\nThe exact date of completion is unknown but an extreme \"terminus ante quem\" is given by the death in 1431 of Pope Martin V, who is known to have visited the completed tomb; other factors may push the \"terminus ante quem\" back significantly into the 1420s. The most reliable such indication is that in September 1428 Jacopo della Quercia returned to Bologna and produced a wall tomb with Virtues reflecting in minute details the Cossa Virtues.\n\nVasari suggests that the tomb went over budget, costing 1,000 florins, although it is unclear who covered the excess. Although the original source for this claim is unknown, it has gained credence with modern scholars as the effigy alone would have cost 500 florins, yet its exactness may be taken with a grain of salt.\n\nThe Baptistry already contained three sarcophagi: those of Bishop Ranieri (d. 1113) and two reused Roman sarcophagi. However, the tomb monument at in height was easily the tallest monument in the Baptistry, and—at the time—in Florence. The Duomo contains few tombs, with some notable exceptions, such as that of Aldobrandino Ottobuoni.\n\nThe tomb monument adapted to the conditions imposed by the Calimala and integrated with the interior of the Baptistry. The wall tomb was required to be placed between two existing Corinthian columns—those between Ghiberti's North Doors and the western tribune—constituting one-third of one of the octagonal walls, near the altar and facing Ghiberti's East Doors. The setting starves the tomb monument of light, especially when the Baptistry's doors are closed, which is normally the case. It would be even darker were it not for the \"screen\" back wall protruding from the Baptistry wall. The white and brown (and whitish-brown) marble further integrates the structure with the polychromatic white and green of the Baptistry interior. Some scholars accept the colored sketch of Buonaccorso Ghirberti as evidence that the \"original effaced polychromy\" of the tomb was more integrated, although others contend that the sketch is too inaccurate. The canopy's interaction with the columns and conceit of being supported by the Baptistry cornice make the tomb monument further \"wedded to the architecture\" around it, even if the marriage is morganatic. Apart from the effigy on the sarcophagus, all the other sculpted figures are in high relief.\n\nAlthough the style of the work is thoroughly classicising, the overall form reflects the grandest type of the medieval Italian wall tomb, in which the vertical piling-up of a series of different elements is characteristic. Italian Gothic sculpture always retained considerable elements of classicism, and it was not necessary for Donatello and Michelozzo to adopt a radically original overall scheme from those of Tino di Camaino (c. 1285–1337), the Siennese sculptor whose wall-tombs of a century before had been very influential throughout Italy. A life-size marble effigy lying on top of an elevated protruding sarcophagus is highly typical. The motif of curtains at the top is often found in monuments using Gothic decorative details, and the shape recalls the triangular gable tops of monuments in a more thoroughly Gothic style; other monuments have curtains, often held open by angels, around the effigy, and then sculptures above. The Cossa monument is often compared to the monument to Doge Tommaso Mocenigo of Venice, of 1423, which has high relief saints in shell niches on and above the sarcophagus, above which a large pair of curtains sweep up to a single terminal; however the architectural detailing here is Gothic. The design of the Cossa tomb itself was elaborated on, and adapted to local conventions, in the tomb by the same team for Cardinal Brancacci in Naples, and influenced the monument to Leonardo Bruni by Bernardo Rossellino, of about 20 years later, in the Basilica of Santa Croce, Florence.\n\nThe base slab, or pylon, of the tomb monument rests on a high plinth, separated by a cornice and concave mouldings. The pylon is high and wide, decorated with a frieze of winged angel heads (perhaps seraphim) and garlands and ribbons.\n\nAbove the pylon, separated by the cornice, are the three Virtues—from left to right, Faith, Charity, and Hope—in shell niches, separated by four Corinthian fluted pilasters. Such a motif is unprecedented in Tuscan funerary sculpture but found at this date in Venice, Padua, and especially Cossa's native Naples. As a result, excursions to Venice have been suggested for both Michelozzo and Donatello. However, Janson suggests that one \"need not go all the way to Venice\" to find such motifs. Outside Florence, Virtues were common on tombs, with the cardinal Virtues used for laymen, and the theological virtues reserved for ecclesiastics, including the Brancaccio tomb. However, the Cossa Virtues, from their hair to their sandals, are more thoroughly antique. Donatello also produced two similar bronze Virtues for the Siena Baptistry, whose chronological relationship to the Cossa Virtues is unclear.\n\nThe tall Faith, to the right of Charity, is holding a Eucharistic chalice; the tall Charity is holding a cornucopia and a brazier (or flaming vase); and the tall Hope, to the left of Charity, has hands clasped in prayer. The central figure of Charity is the most antique, assimilating elements of Classical depictions of Abundantia, Ceres, and Juno, all of which were depicted with cornucopias in their left hands. Besides underscoring the antiquity of the tomb monument, the main purpose of the tall yet poorly finished Virtues is to put additional vertical distance between the viewer and the effigy, which has the cumulative effect of de-emphasizing the peculiarities of Cossa, in favor of a generic pontiff (i.e. a potential line of Florentine popes), by blunting the \"immediacy\" of the trope of lying in state, which was otherwise dominant on Quattrocento wall tombs.\n\nAbove the Virtues, four classical consoles decorated with acanthus leaves support the sarcophagus. In the tripartite space between the consoles—from left to right—are Cossa's family arms with the papal tiara, the papal coat of arms, and Cossa's family arms with the cardinal's hat. The \"rilievo schiacciato\" (a type of very shallow bas-relief pioneered by Donatello) on the architrave sarcophagus ( wide and high) depicts two putti or spiratelli (\"little spirits\") holding open a large inscribed parchment, perhaps in the style of a papal brief. The putti (or spiratelli) share many characteristics with their ancient counterparts, except for their crossed legs.\nThe inscription reads:\n\nWhich translates to:\n\nJohn the former pope<br>\nXXIII. Died in Florence<br>\nA.D. 1419, on 11th<br>\nday before the Calends of January\n\nPope Martin V objected to a portion of the inscription—\"—because he thought it implied Cossa had died as pope (the Latin \" could mean either \"the former\" or \"the late\"). The use of \"olim Papa\", as was common in many contemporary documents, instead of \"quondam Papa\" would probably have removed Martin V's objections. Martin himself suggested instead that Cossa be identified as a Neapolitan cardinal, thus emphasizing instead his submission. Contemporary sources report that the Signoria mimicked the reply of Pontius Pilate regarding the inscription on the cross of Christ: \"What is written, is written.\" Martin V himself was buried underneath an undecorated bronze floor slab, the only known example of a two-dimensional papal monument, although also the first to be set in the central nave of a major basilica, the Basilica of St. John Lateran in Rome, and cast in bronze.\n\nAccording to Avery, Donatello's \"Ascension of Christ and the Giving of the Keys to St. Peter\" may have been intended to share the front of the sarcophagus, further strengthening the papal associations, which were created by dating Cossa's death using the ancient Roman Calends of January, which was uncommon on Florentine tombs, but was used in papal ones.\n\nOn top of the sarcophagus, the bier of the effigy is supported by lions whose shape mimics Trecento consoles. The lions may be based on the Florentine \"\", as if to mark John XXIII in the same manner as a conquered city-state. As Donatello's \"Marzocco\" for the papal apartment in Santa Maria Novella conveyed Florence's ambivalence towards Martin V (as both a source of prestige by visiting, and a potential adversary of the Republic), the lions supporting the bier contextualize the tomb monument's support for John XXIII's claim to the papacy by cementing it as a Florentine claim. Yet, any iconographical interpretation of the lions must be taken with a grain of salt as lions are symbolically promiscuous, and are also seen as supports on earlier tombs, such as that of Lapo de' Bardi (d. 1342) in the Bargello.\nThe bier and the pall spread over it are tilted towards the viewer with the lion supporting the head standing shorter, increasing the visibility of the effigy, especially the head. The gilded-bronze, life-size effigy itself makes no attempt to argue for Cossa's papal status, dressing Cossa clearly in the costume of a cardinal; the bedding it rests on is of un-gilt bronze. The opening in the 16th century of the sarcophagus confirmed that Cossa's actual burial clothes matched the effigy. There was no precedent for a three-dimensional gilded-bronze effigy on an Italian tomb monument; there was, however, a gilt bronze statue on the balcony of the Palazzo della Briada in Bologna commissioned by Pope Boniface VIII.\n\nSome scholars suggest that Donatello created the effigy with the aid of a death mask, but others disagree.\n\nBehind the effigy is a tripartite pylon with sunk molded borders supporting the cornice and framed by two additional Corinthian pilasters. Above it rests an entablature of the Madonna and Child on a half-lunette, a typical—symbolizing intercession—motif for a tomb. Above the effigy and Madonna is a gilt-edged architectonic canopy decorated with patterned stemmed flowers, giving the conceit of being supported by the ribbed brass ring, an impossibility given its weight. McHam suggests that the canopy is based on the \"Dome of Heaven\", and thus the \"baldacchino\" of papal enthronement. However, Lightbown is emphatic that the double-summited canopy looped against the pillars is not a baldacchino, but rather a secular bed-canopy.\n\nThe tomb monument was the first collaboration between Donatello and Michelozzo, who went on to collaborate on the tomb of Cardinal Rainaldo Brancacci in the Church of Sant'Angelo a Nilo in Naples, the tomb of Papal Secretary Bartolomeo Aragazzi in what is now the Duomo of Montepulciano, and the external pulpit of the Duomo of Prato. At the time of their partnership, Donatello was already well known for his statues of prophets and saints for the Duomo and Orsanmichele, while Michelozzo was more obscure. Both had worked for a time for Ghiberti, whose workshop then led Florentine sculpture.\n\nNearly every element of the tomb monument has been attributed to both Donatello and Michelozzo by different art historians. These characterizations are mostly of historiographical interest: attribution to Donatello is more of an indication of what is valued by each commentator than any objective criteria; often, aspects are attributed to Michelozzo explicitly because they are \"less well executed\".\n\nDescriptions from 1475 to 1568 attribute all of the tomb except for the figure of Faith to Donatello. Some modern sources reverse this dichotomy, attributing all of the tomb to Michelozzo with the exception of the gilded bronze effigy. Some sources credit Donatello only with the bronze effigy. According to Janson, of the marble work, only the \"putti\" can be attributed to \"Donatello's own hand\". Donatello's alleged deficiencies in casting or in architecture have been proposed as the reason for his partnership with Michelozzo, in addition to his busy schedule.\n\n"}
{"id": "42095352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42095352", "title": "TuneSat", "text": "TuneSat\n\nTuneSat is an online audio recognition service launched in 2009 which enables music copyright holders to detect where their work is being used. Rights owners upload their audio files, and TuneSat begins to search and track results of matches.\n\nFounders Chris Woods and Scott Schreer began by pitching their services to US television networks as an alternative to the cue sheet tracking which has been standard for many years from ASCAP and BMI .\nIn 2012, TuneSat launched a product to detect unlicensed streaming across the web, in podcasts, movie trailers, fan videos, and flash websites.\nIn the spring of 2013, TuneSat raised $1.223 million in equity funding to expand their tracking to more television networks around the world. At the time, TuneSat tracked 320 television networks in 14 countries, including the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Spain and Italy.\n"}
{"id": "6698584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6698584", "title": "Women writers", "text": "Women writers\n\nWomen have made significant contributions to literature from the earliest times. The involvement of women in writing occurred in several early civilizations.\n\nOne of the earliest known female writer was Enheduanna, whom also is the earliest known poet whose name has been recorded. She was the High Priestess of the goddess Inanna and the moon god Nanna (Sin). She lived in the Sumerian city-state of Ur.\n\nEnheduanna's contributions to Sumerian literature, definitively ascribed to her, include several personal devotions to Inanna and a collection of hymns known as the \"Sumerian Temple Hymns\". Further additional texts are ascribed to her. This makes her the first named author in world history.\n\nShe was the first known woman to hold the title of EN, a role of great political importance that was often held by royal daughters. She was appointed to the role by her father, King Sargon of Akkad. Her mother was probably Queen Tashlultum. \nEnheduanna was appointed to the role of High Priestess in a shrewd political move by Sargon to help secure power in the south of his kingdom, where the City of Ur was located.\n\nSappho (; Aeolic Greek \"Psapphô\"; c. 630 – c. 570 BC) was an archaic Greek poet from the island of Lesbos. Sappho is known for her lyric poetry, written to be sung while accompanied by a lyre. Most of Sappho's poetry is now lost, and what is extant has survived only in fragmentary form, except for one complete poem: the \"Ode to Aphrodite\". As well as lyric poetry, ancient commentators claimed that Sappho wrote elegiac and iambic poetry. Three epigrams attributed to Sappho are extant, but these are actually Hellenistic imitations of Sappho's style.\n\nChristine de Pizan was the most know late medieval French writer, rhetorician, and critic, wrote \"Book of the City of Ladies\" in 1405, a text about an allegorical city in which independent women lived free from the slander of men. In her work she included real women artists, such as Anastasia, who was considered one of the best Parisian illuminators, although none of her work has survived. Other humanist texts led to increased education for Italian women.\n\nOn of most know 18th century female writer was Jane Austen author of \"Sense and Sensibility\" (1811), \"Pride and Prejudice\" (1813), \"Mansfield Park\" (1814) and \"Emma\" (1816), she achieved success as a published writer. She wrote two additional novels, \"Northanger Abbey\" and \"Persuasion\", both published posthumously in 1818, and began another, eventually titled \"Sanditon\", but died before its completion. \n\nArtists from this period include the following:\n\n\nThe followed is a list of Interdisciplinar female writers of 19th century:\n\n\nOn 20th century women produced many books of all genres, among fiction books can be named books such Harry Potter and The House of the Spirits, among others, the followed is a list of female writers of 20th century:\n\nThe followed women have won Nobel Prize in Literature\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54367124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54367124", "title": "ZeniMax v. Oculus", "text": "ZeniMax v. Oculus\n\nZeniMax v. Oculus is a civil lawsuit filed by ZeniMax Media against Oculus VR on charges of theft of intellectual property relating to Oculus' virtual reality device, the Oculus Rift.\n\nThe Oculus Rift is a virtual reality headset that was developed by Oculus VR. The company was founded by Palmer Luckey, who had a keen interest in head-mounted displays and had developed a prototype of the Oculus Rift by 2012. Concurrently, John Carmack, at the time of id Software, a subsidiary under ZeniMax Media, also was interested in head-mounted displays, saw Luckey's prototype for the Rift and modified it, showcasing the updated prototype at Electronic Entertainment Expo 2012 (E3) that June using a modified version of id's \"Doom 3\".\n\nFollowing E3 2012, Oculus VR launched a Kickstarter to fund further development of the Rift, ultimately raising more than $2.4 million through it, one of the largest crowdfunding ventures at that time. The attention led to additional venture funding, with more than $91 million invested by 2013. During this, Carmack left id Software to become the Chief Technology Officer for Oculus VR. In March 2014, Mark Zuckerberg announced that Facebook had acquired Oculus VR for $2 billion.\n\nAround May 2014, shortly after Facebook made its deal to acquire Oculus VR, the \"Wall Street Journal\" reported that ZeniMax had sent two letters to Facebook and Oculus VR, asserting that any technology contributions Carmack had made towards VR while he was still an employee of id Software, including the \"VR testbed\" that Carmack had frequently demonstrated, were within the intellectual property (IP) of id and ZeniMax. In a statement, ZeniMax said that they \"provided necessary VR technology and other valuable assistance to Palmer Luckey and other Oculus employees in 2012 and 2013 to make the Oculus Rift a viable VR product, superior to other VR market offerings.\"\n\nZeniMax stated that a 2012 non-disclosure agreement (NDA) and a non-ownership agreement that covered VR technology and signed by Luckey, prior to Oculus VR's formation, would cover any of Carmack's contributions to VR.\n\nZeniMax contends that they had attempted to resolve these issues with Oculus prior to their acquisition by Facebook \"whereby ZeniMax would be compensated for its intellectual property through equity ownership in Oculus but were unable to reach a satisfactory resolution\". Oculus denied the claims, stating that \"It's unfortunate, but when there's this type of transaction, people come out of the woodwork with ridiculous and absurd claims\".\n\nZeniMax formally filed a lawsuit against Luckey and Oculus VR on May 21, 2014 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas and seeking a jury trial. The lawsuit contended that Luckey and Oculus used ZeniMax's \"trade secrets, copyrighted computer code, and technical know-how relating to virtual reality technology\", as provided by Carmack, to develop the Oculus Rift product, and sought for financial damages for contract breach, copyright infringement, and unfair competition. ZeniMax also charged that Oculus, through Carmack, were able to hire several former ZeniMax/id Software employees who also had technical knowledge of its VR technology, which would allow them to rapidly fine-tune the VR testbed system to create the Rift. In its files, ZeniMax revealed it has \"invested tens of millions of dollars in research and development\" into VR technology, and that because they felt \"Oculus and Luckey lacked the necessary expertise and technical know-how to create a viable virtual reality headset\", they \"sought expertise and know-how from Zenimax\".\n\nOculus initially responded to the charges as \"The lawsuit filed by ZeniMax has no merit whatsoever. As we have previously said, ZeniMax did not contribute to any Oculus technology. Oculus will defend these claims vigorously.\" The company filed its formal response on June 25, 2014, stating that ZeniMax \"falsely claims ownership in Oculus VR technology in a transparent attempt to take advantage of the Oculus VR sale to Facebook\". Oculus stated that prior to the acquisition by Facebook, \"ZeniMax never raised any claim of infringement against Oculus VR, undoubtedly because ZeniMax never has contributed any intellectual property or technology to Oculus VR\".\n\nThe response stated that ZeniMax's filing \"deliberately misstating some facts and omitting others\" and that \"there is not a line of ZeniMax code or any of its technology in any Oculus VR product\". Oculus' response included photographs and documents that demonstrated they had been working on their own VR technology as early as August 2010. The response further contended that the key document of ZeniMax's suit, the NDA signed by Luckey, was \"never finalized\", and thus is not a \"valid and enforceable agreement\".\n\nZeniMax amended the case to include Facebook among the defendants on August 29, 2014. ZeniMax charged that Facebook intended to \"leverage and commercially exploit Oculus’s virtual reality technology — which is built upon ZeniMax’s unlawfully misappropriated intellectual property — for the financial benefit of Facebook’s core business of online social networking and advertising.\"\n\nOculus and Facebook attempted to have the case dismissed, but the presiding judge disagreed, and, in August 2015, allowed the case to proceed to a jury trial expected to start in August 2016.\n\nDuring the discovery phase, ZeniMax had sought a deposition from Zuckerberg, believing he had \"unique knowledge\" of the Facebook-Oculus deal. At request from Facebook, the judge ruled that Zuckerberg must provide a deposition, but only after lesser-ranking employees had been deposed as to have a \"less intrusive discovery\" process.\n\nIn August 2016, it was discovered that ZeniMax had further modified their complaint, specifically adding by name Carmack as Oculus's CTO, and Brendan Iribe as Oculus' CEO. The updated complaint alleged that during his last days at id Software, Carmack \"copied thousands of documents from a computer at ZeniMax to a USB storage device\", and later after his employment was terminated he \"returned to ZeniMax's premises to take a customized tool for developing VR Technology belonging to ZeniMax that itself is part of ZeniMax's VR technology\". ZeniMax's complaint charged that Iribe had directed Oculus to \"[disseminate] to the press the false and fanciful story that Luckey was the brilliant inventor of VR technology who had developed that technology in his parents' garage\", when \"Luckey lacked the training, expertise, resources, or know-how to create commercially viable VR technology\", thus aiding in the IP theft from ZeniMax.\n\nFurther, the updated complaint asserts Facebook had more involvement as it knew or had reason to know that Oculus' claims on the VR IP was false. Oculus responded, \"This complaint filed by ZeniMax is one-sided and conveys only ZeniMax's interpretation of the story. The court had a computer forensic expert evaluate the contents of Carmack's computer, and on October 28, 2016, the expert reported that from their findings \"statements and representations that have been sworn to and are before the court are factually inaccurate\". The court ordered Oculus to comply with providing previously-redacted communications it had with Carmack as a result, as well as requesting Samsung to provide information on its Samsung Gear VR which was co-created with Oculus.\n\nThe jury trial started on January 9, 2017. During the trial, Zuckerberg testified in court that he believed the allegations from ZeniMax Media were false. In the plaintiff's closing arguments, ZeniMax's lawyers believed that they should receive $2 billion in compensation for Oculus' actions, and an additional $4 billion in punitive damages.\n\nThe jury trial completed on February 2, 2017, with the jury finding that Luckey had violated the NDA he had with ZeniMax, and awarding $500 million to ZeniMax. However, the jury found that Oculus, Facebook, Luckey, Iribe, and Carmack did not misappropriate or steal trade secrets, though ZeniMax continued to publicly assert otherwise. Oculus will have to pay $200 million for breaking the non-disclosure agreement, and additional $50 million for copyright infringement; for false designation of origin charges, Oculus and Luckey will have to pay $50 million each, while Iribe will be responsible for $150 million.\n\nWhile Oculus said \"the jury found decisively in our favor\" over the issue of trade secrets, the company plans to file an appeal on the other charges. Carmack stated that he disagreed with the decision, particularly on ZeniMax's \"characterization, misdirection, and selective omissions\" regarding his behavior, adding that he had accounted for all the data in his possession. Carmack took issue with one of ZeniMax's expert witnesses who testified that non-literal copying, the act of creating a program with similar functions but using different computer code, constitutes a copyright violation.\n\nZeniMax stated that it is considering a court-ordered halt to all Oculus Rift units in light of the jury decision; and on February 24, 2017, filed an injunction to have the court halt sales of the Oculus Rift and development kits. Oral arguments for these injunctions were held on June 19, 2017. ZeniMax argued that either Oculus should halt sales of the Rift, or otherwise receive 20% of all Rift sales over the next ten years. Oculus, in addition to its own filings towards a new trial, requested the judge throw out the jury verdict, or reduced the penalty to $50 million. In June 2018, the judge overseeing the case agreed to cut the damages owed by Oculus in half to (with an additional in interest), while denying Zenimax their request to halt Oculus sales.\n\nIn a separate lawsuit filed in March 2017, Carmack asserted that ZeniMax did not complete its payment to him of the acquisition of id Software, and asked the court to find for him for the remaining $22 million he states the company owes him. ZeniMax's lawyers asserted that from the Oculus case, they had not been found in violation of Carmack's employment after ZeniMax acquired id Software and that this new suit was \"without merit\". By October 2018, Carmack stated that he and ZeniMax reached an agreement and that \"Zenimax has fully satisfied their obligations to me\", and this lawsuit was subsequently dropped.\n\nIn May 2017, ZeniMax filed a new lawsuit towards Samsung over the Gear VR. In addition to the previous legal decision over IP issues related to the Oculus technology used in the Gear VR, ZeniMax also contends in the new suit that Carmack had allowed Matt Hooper, who had been recently fired as a creative director from id, into id's facilities after hours without permission to work out an \"attack plan\" for developing mobile VR, which would ultimately lead to the Gear VR device. ZeniMax seeks punitive damages as well as a share of profits from Gear VR.\n"}
