{"id": "36792440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36792440", "title": "A Fair Cop", "text": "A Fair Cop\n\nA Fair Cop is a 2008 memoir by Michael Bunting, a former British police officer. After attending an incident during the course of his duties, Bunting was found guilty of common assault of a member of the public. Bunting claims that he is innocent of the crime and tells his side of the story in \"A Fair Cop\". The book was published by The Friday Project, with the book currently being written to become a screen drama. \nBunting is now a restorative justice campaigner.\n\nThe book follows Bunting's narration of the events that lead up to his sentencing on September 8, 1999, when Bunting was sentenced to spend four months at HMP Armley Prison for charges of common assault. During his prison sentence Bunting was physically threatened and verbally abused by the other inmates, who also tampered with his food. Because of these threats, Bunting is placed in the hospital wing for his own safety.\n\nBunting then details his time at the West Yorkshire Police Training School, his formal acceptance into the service where he is given his father's old West Riding Constabulary's collar number, and his reactions to some of the situations he had to respond to as a police officer. Bunting later joins the Police Support Unit and helps in trying to quell the Bradford Riots.\n\nOn August 24, 1997, Bunting responds to a domestic disturbance report at a private residence where he and two other officers encounter two males. One is immediately arrested, but the other grows increasingly more hostile and Bunting warns him that exhibiting such behavior could result in his arrest. Bunting is then assaulted by the man, receiving numerous injuries such as a broken tooth and swelling to his left cheek and eye. One of the other officers uses CS spray in an attempt to quell the attack, but sprays Bunting in the process. Later Bunting is examined by a doctor for his injuries, having also experienced difficulty with his vision. The doctor concludes that the disturbance in vision was attributable to an injury Bunting sustained during the attack.\n\nFive weeks later the Discipline and Complaints Department then inform Bunting that he is under investigation for an assault because a member of the public complained about his conduct during the incident. Bunting is later charged with common assault due to his attacker accused him of using excessive force while Bunting was attempting to defend himself and subdue his attacker. Bunting was also forced to give his home address in open court at Wakefield Magistrates Court, where his assaulter and the media are present. He requests that he be allowed to give his address in a written format, which is denied. The case is held on 26 July 1999 at Leeds Crown Court, where conflicting witness testimony is given and medical evidence shows that Bunting's attacker did not sustain any injuries. Despite this, Bunting is found guilty on the common assault charge.\n\nBunting serves part of his sentence at HMP Armley in Leeds. He spends much of his time in his cell, reading Tony Adams's autobiography, reciting song lyrics, and practicing his faith. Bunting avoids much of the prison staff and populace, speaking primarily to the prison chaplain Bill Foster and physician Steve Ferguson. In the book, Bunting asserts that his faith greatly assisted him during his time in prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "184854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=184854", "title": "Abstract art", "text": "Abstract art\n\nAbstract art uses a visual language of shape, form, color and line to create a composition which may exist with a degree of independence from visual references in the world. Western art had been, from the Renaissance up to the middle of the 19th century, underpinned by the logic of perspective and an attempt to reproduce an illusion of visible reality. The arts of cultures other than the European had become accessible and showed alternative ways of describing visual experience to the artist. By the end of the 19th century many artists felt a need to create a new kind of art which would encompass the fundamental changes taking place in technology, science and philosophy. The sources from which individual artists drew their theoretical arguments were diverse, and reflected the social and intellectual preoccupations in all areas of Western culture at that time.\n\nAbstract art, non-figurative art, non-objective art, and non-representational art are loosely related terms. They are similar, but perhaps not of identical meaning.\n\nAbstraction indicates a departure from reality in depiction of imagery in art. This departure from accurate representation can be slight, partial, or complete. Abstraction exists along a continuum. Even art that aims for verisimilitude of the highest degree can be said to be abstract, at least theoretically, since perfect representation is likely to be exceedingly elusive. Artwork which takes liberties, altering for instance color and form in ways that are conspicuous, can be said to be partially abstract. Total abstraction bears no trace of any reference to anything recognizable. In geometric abstraction, for instance, one is unlikely to find references to naturalistic entities. Figurative art and total abstraction are almost mutually exclusive. But figurative and representational (or realistic) art often contains partial abstraction.\n\nBoth geometric abstraction and lyrical abstraction are often totally abstract. Among the very numerous art movements that embody partial abstraction would be for instance fauvism in which color is conspicuously and deliberately altered vis-a-vis reality, and cubism, which blatantly alters the forms of the real life entities depicted.\n\nMuch of the art of earlier cultures – signs and marks on pottery, textiles, and inscriptions and paintings on rock – used simple, geometric and linear forms which might have had a symbolic or decorative purpose. It is at this level of visual meaning that abstract art communicates. One can enjoy the beauty of Chinese calligraphy or Islamic calligraphy without being able to read it.\n\nIn Chinese painting, abstraction can be traced to the Tang dynasty painter Wang Mo (王墨), who is credited to have invented the splashed-ink painting style. While none of his paintings remain, this style is clearly seen in some Song Dynasty Paintings. The Chan buddhist painter Liang Kai (梁楷, c. 1140–1210) applied the style to figure painting in his \"Immortal in splashed ink\" in which accurate representation is sacrificed to enhance spontaneity linked to the non-rational mind of the enlightened. A late Song painter named Yu Jian, adept to Tiantai buddhism, created a series of splashed ink landscapes that eventually inspired many Japanese zen painters. His paintings show heavily misty mountains in which the shapes of the objects are barely visible and extremely simplified. This type of painting was continued by Sesshu Toyo in his later years.\n\nAnother instance of abstraction in Chinese painting is seen in Zhu Derun's \"Cosmic Circle\". On the left side of this painting is a pine tree in rocky soil, its branches laced with vines that extend in a disorderly manner to the right side of the painting in which a perfect circle (probably made with help of a compass) floats in the void. The painting is a reflection of the Daoist metaphysics in which chaos and reality are complementary stages of the regular course of nature.\nIn Tokugawa Japan some zen monk-painters created Enso, a circle who represents the absolute enlightenment. Usually made in one spontaneous brush stroke, it became the paradigm of the minimalist aesthetic that guided part of the zen painting.\n\nPatronage from the church diminished and private patronage from the public became more capable of providing a livelihood for artists.\n\nThree art movements which contributed to the development of abstract art were Romanticism, Impressionism and Expressionism. Artistic independence for artists was advanced during the 19th century. An \"objective interest in what is seen\", can be discerned from the paintings of John Constable, J M W Turner, Camille Corot and from them to the Impressionists who continued the \"plein air\" painting of the Barbizon school.\n\nEarly intimations of a new art had been made by James McNeill Whistler who, in his painting \"\", (1872), placed greater emphasis on visual sensation than the depiction of objects.\n\nExpressionist painters explored the bold use of paint surface, drawing distortions and exaggerations, and intense color. Expressionists produced emotionally charged paintings that were reactions to and perceptions of contemporary experience; and reactions to Impressionism and other more conservative directions of late 19th-century painting. The Expressionists drastically changed the emphasis on subject matter in favor of the portrayal of psychological states of being. Although artists like Edvard Munch and James Ensor drew influences principally from the work of the Post-Impressionists they were instrumental to the advent of abstraction in the 20th century.\nPaul Cézanne had begun as an Impressionist but his aim – to make a logical construction of reality based on a view from a single point, with modulated color in flat areas – became the basis of a new visual art, later to be developed into Cubism by Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso.\n\nPost Impressionism as practiced by Paul Gauguin, Georges Seurat, Vincent van Gogh and Paul Cézanne had an enormous impact on 20th-century art and led to the advent of 20th-century abstraction. The heritage of painters like Van Gogh, Cézanne, Gauguin, and Seurat was essential for the development of modern art. At the beginning of the 20th century Henri Matisse and several other young artists including the pre-cubist Georges Braque, André Derain, Raoul Dufy and Maurice de Vlaminck revolutionized the Paris art world with \"wild\", multi-colored, expressive landscapes and figure paintings that the critics called Fauvism. With his expressive use of color and his free and imaginative drawing Henri Matisse comes very close to pure abstraction in \"French Window at Collioure\" (1914), \"View of Notre-Dame\" (1914), and \"The Yellow Curtain\" from 1915. The raw language of color as developed by the Fauves directly influenced another pioneer of abstraction, Wassily Kandinsky.\n\nAlthough Cubism ultimately depends upon subject matter, it became, along with Fauvism, the art movement that directly opened the door to abstraction in the 20th century. Pablo Picasso made his first cubist paintings based on Cézanne's idea that all depiction of nature can be reduced to three solids: cube, sphere and cone. With the painting \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\" (1907), Picasso dramatically created a new and radical picture depicting a raw and primitive brothel scene with five prostitutes, violently painted women, reminiscent of African tribal masks and his own new Cubist inventions. Analytic cubism was jointly developed by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque, from about 1908 through 1912. Analytic cubism, the first clear manifestation of cubism, was followed by Synthetic cubism, practiced by Braque, Picasso, Fernand Léger, Juan Gris, Albert Gleizes, Marcel Duchamp and others into the 1920s. Synthetic cubism is characterized by the introduction of different textures, surfaces, collage elements, papier collé and a large variety of merged subject matter. The collage artists like Kurt Schwitters and Man Ray and others taking the clue from Cubism were instrumental to the development of the movement called Dada.\n\nThe Italian poet Filippo Tommaso Marinetti published the Manifesto of Futurism in 1909, which later inspired artists such as Carlo Carra in \"Painting of Sounds, Noises and Smells\" and Umberto Boccioni \"Train in Motion\", 1911, to a further stage of abstraction that would, along with Cubism, profoundly influenced art movements throughout Europe.\n\nDuring the 1912 Salon de la Section d'Or, where František Kupka exhibited the abstract painting \"Amorpha, Fugue en deux couleurs\" (\"Fugue in Two Colors\") (1912), the poet Guillaume Apollinaire named the work of several artists including Robert Delaunay, Orphism. He defined it as, \"the art of painting new structures out of elements that have not been borrowed from the visual sphere, but had been created entirely by the artist...it is a pure art.\"\n\nSince the turn of the century, cultural connections between artists of the major European cities had become extremely active as they strove to create an art form equal to the high aspirations of modernism. Ideas were able to cross-fertilize by means of artist's books, exhibitions and manifestos so that many sources were open to experimentation and discussion, and formed a basis for a diversity of modes of abstraction. The following extract from \"The World Backwards\" gives some impression of the inter-connectedness of culture at the time: \"David Burliuk's knowledge of modern art movements must have been extremely up-to-date, for the second Knave of Diamonds exhibition, held in January 1912 (in Moscow) included not only paintings sent from Munich, but some members of the German Die Brücke group, while from Paris came work by Robert Delaunay, Henri Matisse and Fernand Léger, as well as Picasso. During the Spring David Burliuk gave two lectures on cubism and planned a polemical publication, which the Knave of Diamonds was to finance. He went abroad in May and came back determined to rival the almanac \"Der Blaue Reiter\" which had emerged from the printers while he was in Germany\".\n\nFrom 1909 to 1913 many experimental works in the search for this 'pure art' had been created by a number of artists: Francis Picabia painted \"Caoutchouc\", 1909, \"The Spring\", 1912, \"Dances at the Spring\" and \"The Procession, Seville\", 1912; Wassily Kandinsky painted \"Untitled (First Abstract Watercolor)\", 1913, \"Improvisation 21A\", the \"Impression\" series, and \"Picture with a Circle\" (1911); František Kupka had painted the Orphist works, \"Discs of Newton\" (Study for \"Fugue in Two Colors\"), 1912 and \"Amorpha, Fugue en deux couleurs\" (\"Fugue in Two Colors\"), 1912; Robert Delaunay painted a series entitled \"Simultaneous Windows\" and \"Formes Circulaires, Soleil n°2\" (1912–13); Léopold Survage created \"Colored Rhythm\" (Study for the film), 1913; Piet Mondrian, painted \"Tableau No. 1\" and \"Composition No. 11\", 1913.\n\nAnd the search continued: The Rayist (Luchizm) drawings of Natalia Goncharova and Mikhail Larionov, used lines like rays of light to make a construction. Kasimir Malevich completed his first entirely abstract work, the Suprematist, \"Black Square\", in 1915. Another of the Suprematist group' Liubov Popova, created the Architectonic Constructions and Spatial Force Constructions between 1916 and 1921. Piet Mondrian was evolving his abstract language, of horizontal and vertical lines with rectangles of color, between 1915 and 1919, Neo-Plasticism was the aesthetic which Mondrian, Theo van Doesburg and other in the group De Stijl intended to reshape the environment of the future.\n\nAs visual art becomes more abstract, it develops some characteristics of music: an art form which uses the abstract elements of sound and divisions of time. Wassily Kandinsky, himself an amateur musician, was inspired by the possibility of marks and associative color \"resounding in the soul.\" The idea had been put forward by Charles Baudelaire, that all our senses respond to various stimuli but the senses are connected at a deeper aesthetic level.\n\nClosely related to this, is the idea that art has \"The spiritual dimension\" and can transcend 'every-day' experience, reaching a spiritual plane. The Theosophical Society popularized the ancient wisdom of the sacred books of India and China in the early years of the century. It was in this context that Piet Mondrian, Wassily Kandinsky, Hilma af Klint and other artists working towards an 'objectless state' became interested in the occult as a way of creating an 'inner' object.\nThe universal and timeless shapes found in geometry: the circle, square and triangle become the spatial elements in abstract art; they are, like color, fundamental systems underlying visible reality.\n\nMany of the abstract artists in Russia became Constructivists believing that art was no longer something remote, but life itself. The artist must become a technician, learning to use the tools and materials of modern production. \"Art into life!\" was Vladimir Tatlin's slogan, and that of all the future Constructivists. Varvara Stepanova and Alexandre Exter and others abandoned easel painting and diverted their energies to theatre design and graphic works.\nOn the other side stood Kazimir Malevich, Anton Pevsner and Naum Gabo. They argued that art was essentially a spiritual activity; to create the individual's place in the world, not to organize life in a practical, materialistic sense. Many of those who were hostile to the materialist production idea of art left Russia. Anton Pevsner went to France, Gabo went first to Berlin, then to England and finally to America. Kandinsky studied in Moscow then left for the Bauhaus. By the mid-1920s the revolutionary period (1917 to 1921) when artists had been free to experiment was over; and by the 1930s only socialist realism was allowed.\n\nThe Bauhaus at Weimar, Germany was founded in 1919 by Walter Gropius. The philosophy underlying the teaching program was unity of all the visual and plastic arts from architecture and painting to weaving and stained glass. This philosophy had grown from the ideas of the Arts and Crafts movement in England and the Deutscher Werkbund. Among the teachers were Paul Klee, Wassily Kandinsky, Johannes Itten, Josef Albers, Anni Albers, and László Moholy-Nagy. In 1925 the school was moved to Dessau and, as the Nazi party gained control in 1932, The Bauhaus was closed. In 1937 an exhibition of degenerate art, 'Entartete Kunst' contained all types of avant-garde art disapproved of by the Nazi party. Then the exodus began: not just from the Bauhaus but from Europe in general; to Paris, London and America. Paul Klee went to Switzerland but many of the artists at the Bauhaus went to America.\n\nDuring the 1930s Paris became the host to artists from Russia, Germany, the Netherlands and other European countries affected by the rise of totalitarianism. Sophie Tauber and Jean Arp collaborated on paintings and sculpture using organic/geometric forms. The Polish Katarzyna Kobro applied mathematically based ideas to sculpture. The many types of abstraction now in close proximity led to attempts by artists to analyse the various conceptual and aesthetic groupings. An exhibition by forty-six members of the Cercle et Carré group organized by Joaquin Torres-Garcia assisted by Michel Seuphor contained work by the Neo-Plasticists as well as abstractionists as varied as Kandinsky, Anton Pevsner and Kurt Schwitters. Criticized by Theo van Doesburg to be too indefinite a collection he published the journal \"Art Concret\" setting out a manifesto defining an abstract art in which the line, color and surface only, are the concrete reality. Abstraction-Création founded in 1931 as a more open group, provided a point of reference for abstract artists, as the political situation worsened in 1935, and artists again regrouped, many in London. The first exhibition of British abstract art was held in England in 1935. The following year the more international \"Abstract and Concrete\" exhibition was organized by Nicolete Gray including work by Piet Mondrian, Joan Miró, Barbara Hepworth and Ben Nicholson. Hepworth, Nicholson and Gabo moved to the St. Ives group in Cornwall to continue their 'constructivist' work.\n\nDuring the Nazi rise to power in the 1930s many artists fled Europe to the United States. By the early 1940s the main movements in modern art, expressionism, cubism, abstraction, surrealism, and dada were represented in New York: Marcel Duchamp, Fernand Léger, Piet Mondrian, Jacques Lipchitz, André Masson, Max Ernst, André Breton, were just a few of the exiled Europeans who arrived in New York. The rich cultural influences brought by the European artists were distilled and built upon by local New York painters. The climate of freedom in New York allowed all of these influences to flourish. The art galleries that primarily had focused on European art began to notice the local art community and the work of younger American artists who had begun to mature. Certain artists at this time became distinctly abstract in their mature work. During this period Piet Mondrian's painting \"Composition No. 10\", 1939–1942, characterized by primary colors, white ground and black grid lines clearly defined his radical but classical approach to the rectangle and abstract art in general.\nSome artists of the period defied categorization, such as Georgia O'Keeffe who, while a modernist abstractionist, was a pure maverick in that she painted highly abstract forms while not joining any specific group of the period.\n\nEventually American artists who were working in a great diversity of styles began to coalesce into cohesive stylistic groups. The best known group of American artists became known as the Abstract expressionists and the New York School. In New York City there was an atmosphere which encouraged discussion and there was new opportunity for learning and growing. Artists and teachers John D. Graham and Hans Hofmann became important bridge figures between the newly arrived European Modernists and the younger American artists coming of age. Mark Rothko, born in Russia, began with strongly surrealist imagery which later dissolved into his powerful color compositions of the early 1950s. The expressionistic gesture and the act of painting itself, became of primary importance to Jackson Pollock, Robert Motherwell, and Franz Kline. While during the 1940s Arshile Gorky's and Willem de Kooning's figurative work evolved into abstraction by the end of the decade. New York City became the center, and artists worldwide gravitated towards it; from other places in America as well.\n\nDigital art, hard-edge painting, geometric abstraction, minimalism, lyrical abstraction, op art, abstract expressionism, color field painting, monochrome painting, assemblage, neo-Dada, shaped canvas painting, are a few directions relating to abstraction in the second half of the 20th century.\n\nIn the United States, \"Art as Object\" as seen in the Minimalist sculpture of Donald Judd and the paintings of Frank Stella are seen today as newer permutations. Other examples include Lyrical Abstraction and the sensuous use of color seen in the work of painters as diverse as Robert Motherwell, Patrick Heron, Kenneth Noland, Sam Francis, Cy Twombly, Richard Diebenkorn, Helen Frankenthaler, Joan Mitchell.\n\nOne socio-historical explanation that has been offered for the growing prevalence of the abstract in modern art – an explanation linked to the name of Theodor W. Adorno – is that such abstraction is a response to, and a reflection of, the growing abstraction of social relations in industrial society.\n\nFrederic Jameson similarly sees modernist abstraction as a function of the abstract power of money, equating all things equally as exchange-values. The social \"content\" of abstract art is then precisely the abstract nature of social existence – legal formalities, bureaucratic impersonalization, information/power – in the world of late modernity.\n\nPost-Jungians by contrast would see the quantum theories with their disintegration of conventional ideas of form and matter as underlying the divorce of the concrete and the abstract in modern art.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25711567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25711567", "title": "Aerial video", "text": "Aerial video\n\nAerial video is an emerging form of data acquisition for scene understanding and object tracking. The video is captured by low flying aerial platforms that integrate Global Positioning Systems (GPS) and automated image processing to improve the accuracy and cost-effectiveness of data collection and reduction. Recorders can incorporate in-flight voice records from the cockpit intercom system. The addition of audio narration is an extremely valuable tool for documentation and communication. GPS data is incorporated with a text-captioning device on each video frame. Helicopter platforms enable \"low and slow\" flights, acquiring a continuous visual record without motion blur.\n\nInnovations in remote sensing cameras have allowed the identification of objects that could not have been previously identified. Pipeline and power corridors and their infrastructure can be documented with digital media recording. Video Mapping System is an example of how this technology is used today.\n\nSince the 1980s, aerial videography has seen increased use in applications where its advantages over traditional photography (lower cost and immediate availability of data) outweigh its disadvantages (poorer spatial resolution and difficulty of analysis due to lack of stereo imaging) (Mausel et al. 1992; Meisner 1986). King (1995) provides a comprehensive review of the evolution of video sensors and their applications, many of which focused on:\n\n"}
{"id": "4411858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4411858", "title": "Aniconism in Islam", "text": "Aniconism in Islam\n\nAniconism is a proscription in Islam against the creation of images of sentient beings. The most absolute proscription is of images of God in Islam, followed by depictions of Muhammad, and then Islamic prophets and the relatives of Muhammad, but the depiction of all humans and non-human animals is discouraged in the \"hadith\" and by the long tradition of Islamic authorities, especially Sunni ones. This has led to Islamic art being dominated by Islamic geometric patterns, calligraphy, the barely representational foliage patterns of the arabesque, and the 'half-formed' figures (e.g. wings without a body) of Indonesian art; but figurative art still has a strong tradition, especially on a small scale in private works for the home or palace. The proliferation of photographic and filmed images today has led to controversy, with some religious authorities stating, for example, that all television is un-Islamic, but this is not a widely held position.\n\nThe Quran, the Islamic holy book, does not explicitly prohibit the depiction of human figures; it merely condemns idolatry. Interdictions of figurative representation are present in the hadith, among a dozen of the hadith recorded during the latter part of the period when they were being written down. Because these hadith are tied to particular events in the life of the Islamic prophet Muhammad, they need to be interpreted in order to be applied in any general manner.\n\nSunni exegetes or \"tafsir\", from the 9th century onward, increasingly saw in them categorical prohibitions against producing and using any representation of living beings. There are variations between religious \"madhhab\" (schools) and marked differences between different branches of Islam. Aniconism is common among fundamentalist Sunni sects such as Salafis and Wahhabis (which are also often iconoclastic), and less prevalent among liberal movements within Islam. Shia and mystical orders also have less stringent views on aniconism. On the individual level, whether or not specific Muslims believe in aniconism may depend on how much credence is given to hadith, and how liberal or strict they are in personal practice.\n\nAniconism in Islam not only deals with the material image, but touches upon mental representations as well. It is a problematic issue, discussed by early theologians, as to how to describe God, Muhammad and other prophets, and, indeed, if it is permissible at all to do so. God is usually represented by immaterial attributes, such as \"holy\" or \"merciful\", commonly known from His \"Ninety-nine beautiful names\". Muhammad's physical appearance, however, is amply described, particularly in the traditions on his life and deeds recorded in the biographies known as \"Sirah Rasul Allah\". Of no less interest is the validity of sightings of holy personages made during dreams.\n\nTitus Burckhardt sums up the role of aniconism in Islamic aesthetics as follows:\n\nThe absence of icons in Islam has not merely a negative but a positive role. By excluding all anthropomorphic images, at least within the religious realm, Islamic art aids man to be entirely himself. Instead of projecting his soul outside himself, he can remain in his ontological centre where he is both the viceregent (\"khalîfa\") and slave (\"'abd\") of God. Islamic art as a whole aims at creating an ambience which helps man to realize his primordial dignity; it therefore avoids everything that could be an 'idol', even in a relative and provisional manner. Nothing must stand between man and the invisible presence of God. Thus Islamic art creates a void; it eliminates in fact all the turmoil and passionate suggestions of the world, and in their stead creates an order that expresses equilibrium, serenity and peace.\n\nIn practice, the core of normative religion in Islam is consistently aniconic. Its embodiment are spaces such as the mosque and objects like the Quran or the white dress of pilgrims entering Mecca, deprived of figurative images. Other spheres of religion (mysticism, popular piety, private level) exhibit in this regard significant variability. Aniconism in secular contexts is even more fluctuating. Generally speaking, aniconism in Islamic societies is restricted in modern times to specific religious contexts. In the past, it was enforced only in some times and places.\n\nThe representation of living beings in Islamic art is not just a modern phenomenon or because of current technology, Westernization or the cult of the personality. Frescos and reliefs of humans and animals adorned palaces of the Umayyad era, as on the famous Mshatta Facade now in Berlin. Figurative miniatures in books occur later in most Islamic countries but somewhat less in Arabic-speaking areas. The human figure is central to the Persian miniature and other traditions such as the Ottoman miniature and Mughal painting, and represents a good deal of the attractiveness of Islamic art for non-Muslims. The Persian miniature tradition began when Persian courts were Sunni but continued after the Shia Safavid dynasty took power. Shah Tahmasp I of Persia began as a keen patron and amateur artist himself, but he turned against painting and other forbidden activities after a religious midlife crisis. From the 13th century to the 17th century, depictions of Muhammad, the later ones usually veiled,) and other prophets or Biblical characters, like Adam (Adem), Abraham (Ibrahim) or Jesus (Isa) and Solomon (Sulaymān) and Alexander the Great (often identified as Dhul-Qarnayn, a figure in the Quran), became common in painted manuscripts from Persia, India and Turkey. Extreme rarities are an illustrated Qur'an depicting Muhammad and, in a Spanish Muslim manuscript from the 16th century, five Umayyad and Abbasid caliphs. Iblis (the Devil) also is present in various illustrated manuscripts. The prohibition on the depiction of God has, as far as is known, remained absolute at all times.\nThe avoidance of idolatry is the main concern of the restrictions on images, and the traditional form for religious cult image, the free-standing sculpture, is extremely rare, and there are no large examples of humans. The Pisa Griffin, of a mythical beast and designed to spout water for a fountain, is the largest example, at three feet tall in bronze, and probably only survives because it was taken as booty by the city of Pisa in the Middle Ages. Like the famous lions supporting a fountain in the Alhambra, it probably came from Al-Andalus, one of the more relaxed Arabic-speaking regions in this respect. The griffin and lions cannot easily be regarded as potential idols, given their submissive position (and the lack of religions worshipping lions or griffins), and the same is true of small decorative figures in relief on objects in metalwork, or figures painted on Islamic pottery, both of which are relatively common. In particular hunting scenes of humans and animals were popular, and presumably regarded as clearly having no religious function. The figures in miniatures were, until the late 16th century, always numerous in each image, small (typically only an inch or two high), and showing the central figures at roughly the same size as the attendants and servants who are usually also shown, thus deflecting potential accusations of idolatry. The books illustrated were most often the classics of Persian poetry and historical chronicles.\n\nThe hadith show some concessions for context, as with the dolls, and condemn most strongly the makers rather than the owners of images. A long tradition of prefaces to \"muraqqas\" sought to justify the creation of images without getting involved in discussions of the specific texts, using arguments such as comparing God to an artist.\n\nMiniature painting was mostly patronized by the court circle and is a private form of art; the owner chooses who to show a book or \"muraqqa\" (album). But wall-paintings with large figures were found in early Islam, and in Safavid and later Persia, especially from the 17th century, but were always rare in the Arabic-speaking world. Such paintings are also mainly found in private palaces; examples in public buildings are rare though not unknown, in Iran there are even some in mosques.\n\nIn Islamic sacred architecture, ornamentation consists mainly in arabesques and geometrical patterns. Mosques do not feature dynamic elements, but aim for a quality of serenity and repose. Similarly, weight-bearing elements are not designed along anthropomorphic lines to present an image of physical strength; cupolas for example often feature muqarnas disguising the transition between the cupola and its supports, creating the impression that the supports, rather than holding up the cupola, have \"congealed\" from the divine void above.\n\nFor many years, Wahhabi clerics opposed the establishment of a television service in Saudi Arabia, as they believed it immoral to produce images of humans. The introduction of television in 1965 offended some Saudis, and one of King Faisal's nephews, Prince Khalid ibn Musa'id ibn 'Abd al-'Aziz, was killed in a police shootout in August 1965 after he led an assault on one of the new television stations.\n\nDepending on which segment of Islamic societies are referred to, the application of aniconism is characterized by noteworthy differences. Factors are the epoch considered, the country, the religious orientation, the political intent, the popular beliefs, the private benefit or the dichotomy between reality and discourse.\n\nToday, the concept of an aniconic Islam coexists with a daily life for Muslims awash with images. TV stations and newspapers (which do present still and moving representations of living beings) have an exceptional impact on public opinion, sometimes, as in the case of Al Jazeera, with a global reach, beyond the Arabic speaking and Muslim audience. Portraits of secular and religious leaders are omnipresent on banknotes and coins, in streets and offices (e.g. presidents like Nasser and Mubarak, Arafat, al-Assad or Hezbollah's Nasrallah and Ayatollah Khomeini). Anthropomorphic statues in public places are to be found in most Muslim countries (Saddam Hussein's are infamous), as well as art schools training sculptors and painters. In the Egyptian countryside, it is fashionable to celebrate and advertise the returning of pilgrims from Mecca on the walls of their houses.\n\nThe Taliban movement in Afghanistan banned photography and destroyed non-Muslim artifacts, especially carvings and statues such as the Buddhas of Bamiyan, generally tolerated by other Muslims, on the grounds that the artifacts are idolatrous or \"shirk\". However, sometimes those who profess aniconism will practice figurative representation (cf. portraits of Talibans from the Kandahar photographic studios during their imposed ban on photography).\n\nFor Shia communities, portraits of the major figures of Shiite history are important elements of religious devotion. In Iran, portraits of Muhammad and of Ali, printed on pieces of cloth or woven into carpets, are called \"temsal\" (\"likenesses\") and can be bought around shrines and in the streets, to be hung in homes or carried with oneself. In Pakistan, India and Bangladesh portraits of Ali can be found on notoriously ornate trucks, buses and rickshaws. Contrary to the Sunni tradition, a photographic picture of the deceased can be placed on the Shiite tombs. A curiosity in Iran is an Orientalist photography supposed to represent Muhammad as a young boy. The Grand Ayatollah Sistani of Najaf in Iraq has given a \"fatwā\" declaring the depiction of Muhammad, the prophets and other holy characters, permissible if it is made with the utmost respect.\n\nMedieval Muslim artists found various ways to represent especially sensitive figures such as Muhammad. He is sometimes shown with a fiery halo hiding his face, head, or whole body, and from about 1500 is often shown with a veiled face. Members of his immediate family and other prophets may be treated in the same way. More generally, it can be believed that since God is absolute, the act of depiction is his own and not that of a human; and miniatures are obviously very crude representations of the reality, so the two cannot be mistaken. At the material level, prophets in manuscripts can have their face covered by a veil or all humans have a stroke drawn over their neck, symbolising the severing of the soul, and clarifying the fact that it is not something alive and imbued with a soul that is depicted: a purposeful flaw to make what is depicted impossible to live in reality (as merely impossible in reality is still often frowned upon or banned, such as representations of comic book characters or unicorns, although exceptions do exist). Calligraphy, the most Islamic of arts in the Muslim world, has also its figurative side due to anthropo- and zoomorphic calligrams. Few portraits were attempted, and the ability to create recognisable portraits was rare in Islamic art until the Mughal tradition began in the late 15th century, although in both Mughal India and Ottoman Turkey portraits of the ruler then became very popular in court circles.\nForms of Islamic calligraphy evolved, especially in the Ottoman period, to fulfill a function similar to that of representative art by means of calligraphic representation, when on paper usually with elaborate frames of Ottoman illumination. These include the name of Muhammad, the \"hilya\", or description of his physical appearance, similar treatments of one or more of the names of God in Islam, and the \"tughra\", a calligraphic version of the name of an Ottoman sultan.\n\nDuring its early days, aniconism in Islam was intended as a measure against idolatry, particularly against the statues worshipped by pagans. All hadith presented in this section are Sunni, not Shia.\n\nTo show the superiority of the monotheist faith, Muhammad smashed the idols at the Kaaba. He also removed paintings that were blasphemous to Islam, while protecting others (the images of Mary and Jesus) inside the building. The hadith below emphasizes that aniconism depends not only on \"what\", but also on \"how\" things are depicted.\n\nAlthough pagans in Muhammad's times also worshiped trees and stones, Muhammad opposed only images of animated beings — humans and animals —, as reported by the hadith. Subsequently, geometrical ornamentation became a sophisticated art form in Islam.\n\nMohammad also warned his followers of dying amongst people that built places of worship at graves and placed pictures in it (i.e. Christians).\nMohammad made it very clear that angels do not like pictures.\n\nOn the other hand, there are hadith stating that Muhammad permitted dolls belonging to both his wife and daughter in his own house.\n\nJudaism, which is related to Islam as a monotheistic faith of Adam, Abraham, Moses (Mūsa), and other prophets, has a comparable prohibition which takes the form of a prohibition on any idol or on any artistic representation of God. The third of the three related religions, Christianity, actively practiced aniconism in the early Christian church, in the Byzantine Iconoclasm of the 8th century, and following the Protestant Reformation, when Calvinism in particular rejected all images in churches. But it has generally had an active tradition of making and venerating images of God and other religious figures, and the movement of iconoclasm was at no time supported by the Roman papacy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4174544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4174544", "title": "Bamberg Horseman", "text": "Bamberg Horseman\n\nThe Bamberg Horseman () is a stone equestrian statue by an anonymous medieval sculptor in the cathedral of Bamberg, Germany.\n\nDating probably from the time before the consecration of the cathedral's new building in 1237, but after 1225, it is located on a console at the north pillar of the St. George choir, it is not known whether this is the intended position of the statue although the base appears to be original and the structure of the base would seem to dissuade moving.\n\nBeing located in a church and showing a crowned yet unarmed man, it is believed that it represents a specific king, perhaps one who was a saint. A candidate is Emperor Henry II (973-1024) who is buried in the cathedral along with Pope Clement II, but he would likely have been depicted with Imperial Regalia. Another possibility is his brother-in-law, king Stephen I of Hungary (975-1038) who stops his horse and looks towards the tomb of Henry. Another theory favours Emperor Frederick II, the Holy Roman Emperor at the time, who financed much of the rebuilding of the cathedral. Yet another theory, supported by Hannes Möhring of the University of Bayreuth, holds that the figure represents the Messiah according to the Book of Revelation (19:11–16).\n\nIt is considered the first monumental equestrian statue since classical antiquity, and also one of the first to depict a horse shoe. Beneath the horse's front hooves is one of the many sculptural representations of the Green Man. Kathleen Basford, in her study of these figures, calls this Green Man the \"dark counterpart\" of the horseman.\n\nStefan George wrote a poem about the horseman. His work influenced Claus Schenk Graf von Stauffenberg, the would-be assassin of Hitler who was a member of the cavalry unit \"Bamberger Reiter- und Kavallerieregiment 17\" (17th Cavalry Regiment).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51666029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51666029", "title": "Bibliography of African women", "text": "Bibliography of African women\n\nA Bibliography of books about African women. Entries are ordered by author alphabetically:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258356", "title": "Chacchoben", "text": "Chacchoben\n\nChacchoben (chak-CHO-ben; Maya for \"the place of red corn\") is a Mayan ruin approximately 110 mi (177 km) south of Tulum and 7 mi (11 km) from the village from which it derives its name.\n\nSettlement by the Maya at the site is estimated at 200 BC, and the structures date from 700 AD. It is characterised by large temples and massive platform groups.\n\nIn the 1940s a farm was established near the site by the Cohuo family, but the ruins were officially reported to the Mexican government in June 1972 by Dr. Peter Harrison, an American archaeologist who was working on a project for The Royal Ontario Museum, and who also made the first maps of Chacchoben. Harrison stumbled upon this site while flying a helicopter over Mexico and noticed numerous hills in predominately flat lands. Harrison realized there were temples beneath these hills, which were naturally covered over a period of 2000 years.\n\nIn 1994 the Mexican National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) excavated and restored the site, which was closed to the public until 2002.\n\nVisitors to the site today walk a circular path that includes three excavated and restored pyramids, as well as many walls and staircases. Excavation is continuing on several mounds which are known to contain further buildings. Some structures still bear traces of the red paint with which they were originally coated, and INAH has set up shaded areas to prevent further degradation of this pigment by the sun. Also notable at the base of the largest pyramid is a large stone slab called a stela with a Mayan hieroglyphic inscription. Chacchoben is one of the more popular ruin sites in southern Quintana Roo, with regular tourist trips from the port of Costa Maya.\n\nThe surrounding jungle is characterized by abundant species of fauna such as, deer, peccary, armadillo, gray fox, spider monkey and howler monkey. Deeper into the jungle, more dangerous animals like jaguar, ocelot, puma and tapir can be found.\n\n"}
{"id": "11742509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11742509", "title": "Conservation and restoration of textiles", "text": "Conservation and restoration of textiles\n\nThe conservation and restoration of textiles refers to the processes by which textiles are cared for and maintained to be preserved from future damage. The field falls under the category of art conservation as well as library preservation, depending on the type of collection. In this case, the concept of textile preservation applies to a wide range of artifacts, including tapestries, carpets, quilts, clothing, flags and curtains, as well as objects which ‘’contain’’ textiles, such as upholstered furniture, dolls, and accessories such as fans, parasols, gloves and hats or bonnets. Many of these artifacts require specialized care, often by a professional conservator. The goal of this article is to provide a general overview of the textile preservation process, and to serve as a jumping-off point for further research into more specialized care. Always contact a professional conservator if you are unsure of how to proceed in the preservation process.\n\nHistoric textile collections can largely be divided into three categories: museums, historic societies/locations, and private collections. The needs of each of these locations will vary. A private collection, for instance, is less likely to have as high a traffic flow as a museum, and may thus be able to take preservation steps that a working museum cannot (such as keeping lights to a minimum for longer periods of time). The different venues may also have different problems that arise, such as the fact that many historic homes do not have climate control, and rely strongly on natural light to display their furnishings, both of which may contribute to textile decay.\n\nThe chief cause for decay in textiles is almost always the environment in which they are stored. Light, temperature, and humidity can all contribute to a textile’s health or deterioration, depending on their intensity. Additionally, pests, chemicals, and pollutants may also cause damage to an antique fabric. Airborne chemicals, such as smog or cigarette smoke are also harmful to the textiles, and should be avoided if at all possible: high-efficiency air filters should be installed throughout the building to reduce the presence of airborne chemicals that may stain, discolor, or weaken fabrics.\n\nLight can have a variety of effects on textiles over time. In some cases, it may contribute to fading or discoloration, but of more concern is the damage which the fibers may suffer under prolonged exposure to non-visible light, such as ultraviolet and infrared lighting. Ideally, textiles should be stored or displayed in as little light as possible, and preferably in total darkness. However, as this is impractical for display and care of the piece, knowing the limits of lighting as well as the safest amounts of lighting, become important.\n\nNatural light is the most common source of ultraviolet light, and as such, care should be taken to avoid exposure to direct sunlight at all costs, and indirect sunlight whenever possible. This may mean storing or displaying textiles in an area without windows, or with blackout curtains, which can be pulled whenever the room is not in use. If a room relies on natural light, UV screens or coatings can be applied to the windows to block harmful rays while still allowing light to pass through. These filters should be checked periodically, however, as they have a limited lifespan and may need to be replaced every few years.\n\nFluorescent and halogen-produced light can also produce large amounts of UV radiation, though filters which fit over the bulbs are available to limit the damaging light. These filters will need to be replaced when the bulbs are changed, so maintenance staff should be aware of them and their use.\n\nOne advantage of fluorescent lights is that they produce little heat, which may also be harmful to textiles. Incandescent lights produce a large amount of heat in addition to large quantities of infrared radiation, which is likewise damaging to the fibers in antique textiles. If incandescent lights must be used, they should be placed far enough away from display cases that their heat does not affect the contents. \n\nIn the case of particularly delicate textiles, display organizers might consider motion-activated or timed lighting, or lighting controlled though a visitor-activated switch, which would allow the textiles to remain in darkness when they are not under view. All textiles should be displayed on a rotating schedule, allowing them a few months of display, then the rest of the year in dark storage, to prolong their life.\n\nHeat and humidity can both contribute and a textile’s deterioration. However, excessive dryness may also cause damage, especially to elastic fibers, such as wool, which rely on some amount of moisture to maintain their flexibility (Putnam and Finch). Additionally, temperature and humidity should be kept as constant as possible; changes in either of these may cause the textile fibers to expand and contract, which, over time, can also cause damage and deterioration to the textile. For this reason, both storage and display areas should be fitted with monitoring equipment to gauge the temperature and humidity of rooms, display cases, enclosed storage facilities, and work areas.\n\nIdeally, temperature should be kept around 70 degrees Fahrenheit, though some slight fluctuation in either direction is permissible, as long as it occurs gradually. For instance, temperature may be slightly lower in winter to save energy costs, but the change should be effected slowly, so as not to place the fibers under undue stress.\n\nAs for humidity, the preservationist or conservator should aim for a relative humidity of 50%, though, as with temperature, some small fluctuation is allowable, as long as it occurs gradually (Mailand). In enclosed display or storage cases, humidity can be somewhat maintained through the use of silica gel crystals. These crystals should not be placed in contact with the textiles, but may be placed in breathable muslin bags and hung inside the case to maintain a constant humidity; they should be monitored periodically, however, to be sure that they are working.\n\nIn areas where climate control is unavailable (such as in historic buildings), the conservator can still moderate the temperature and relative humidity through use of fans, humidifiers and dehumidifiers, and portable heating or cooling units.\n\nIn addition to temperature and humidity, air flow is also a concern for textile preservation. Textiles should never be sealed in plastic or other air-tight casing unless it is part of a treatment or cleaning process. Proper circulation, combined with the suggested humidity, will help to prevent the growth of mold and mildew, which may stain or weaken antique textiles.\n\nPests are another significant threat to textile collections, as there are a number of creatures which can cause damage to fibres. Among the most common are clothes moths, carpet beetles, silverfish, firebrats and rodents.\n\nClothes moths are attracted to protein fibres, and so are especially drawn to silk, wool, and feathers. An infestation might be identified through the evidence of white cocoons (or the remnants thereof) on the textiles, or of sighting the insects themselves. They are roughly 8 centimetres long and white in colour.\n\nLike clothes moths, carpet beetles are likewise drawn to proteins, and can be quite destructive. Evidence of an infestation may take of the form of chewed holes, carcasses, or larvae, which appear as small pale worm-like insects.\n\nSilverfish and firebrats are related insects which consume starch, usually found in sizing or other treatments applied to fabrics, as well as plant-based textiles such as linen and cotton. Both are attracted to dark, moist climates, though silverfish prefer cooler temperatures, while firebrats tend towards warmer. Both are about 12 millimetres in length and either light or dark in colouring, depending on which type is present.\n\nRodent infestations can be identified in the usual ways, such as seeing droppings, nests, or comparatively large chewed areas of textile where they have caused damage.\nIn all cases, chemical means of pest control should be avoided if possible, not only due to harm to humans who come in contact with them, but because the chemicals may cause damage to the very textiles the conservator is trying to save. For rodents, snap traps may be effective, and if needed, a professional exterminator should be called. Poison baited traps should be avoided, as the rodent could die somewhere inaccessible, and provide a breeding ground for further pests. Also, in the case of a rodent infestation, all access points to the room (such as cracks or holes) through which they might be entering should be located and sealed if possible.\n\nFor insects, keeping clean storage, display, and work environment is the best method of prevention. Also, sticky traps (replaced often) around doors, windows, and display cases may be useful for monitoring the insect population. Furthermore, the population of carnivorous insects, such as spiders, should be observed. While such insects are not harmful to textiles by themselves, they may indicate another population of insects which are.\n\nIf the infestation can be limited to one or a few pieces, the insects may be killed through freezing of the object. The textile should be wrapped in plastic and vacuum-sealed, then brought to a freezing temperature as quickly as possible, to prevent the insects from adjusting to the cold. The object may be left frozen for several days, but should be brought slowly back up to room temperature to avoid further damage. Note that while this method should kill adults, it may not destroy any eggs that are present.\n\nIf chemical means must be employed, it would be best to consult with a professional conservator to be certain that the treatment will not harm the textiles themselves.\n\nEven if no signs of an infestation are present, textiles should still be inspected periodically to be certain that there is no outbreak that has gone unobserved. Additionally, when dealing with a new acquisition which shows signs of insect damage, the specimen should be quarantined until it can be determined whether the insects are still present before introducing it to the rest of the collection.\n\nIn some cases, the textiles are weakened not by outside causes such as light or pests, but by chemical reactions taking place within the fabric itself, such as the oxidation of iron-based mordants over time, which can cause darkening and discolouration in the surrounding fibres.\n\nOne example which is cited frequently throughout the literature is the case of “shattered silk.” During the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, many silk manufacturers treated their fabrics with metallic salts (usually containing tin and iron) to give them a heavier, more luxurious feel. However, as these fabrics have aged, the metals in the fibres have accelerated their decay and caused them to become extremely brittle. The shredded or “shattered” effect this causes is the reason for the name. In this case, the environment of the textile contributes very little to the deterioration from the metallic salts, though exposure to light may accelerate it even further.\n\nTextile preservationists should be familiar with their collections and the history and provenance of their pieces. Chemical tests can reveal the types of dyes and mordants used, as well as any other treatments applied to the fabric. Such knowledge can lead to the prevention of further decay by learning which pieces need to be handled with particular care.\n\nIt goes without saying that fragile and/or valuable textiles should be handled with care, and as little as necessary in any given circumstance. However, should handling be necessary, there are precautions which can be taken to ensure the safety of the textile.\n\nBecause our hands contain oils and acids in the skin, clean cloth gloves should be worn when handling textiles. If gloves are unavailable, then frequent hand-washing should be undertaken to ensure that no damage is caused. For similar reasons, the working, display, and storage areas should be free of food, drink, and cigarette smoke, which can also stain or damage the fabric. Finally, to avoid ink stains, only pencils should be used for writing or sketching in the work space.\n\nTo avoid snags and pulls, remove any jewelry that may catch in the fabric’s weave, and wear clothing free of large buckles or other objects which may snag the textile. Long hair should also be tied back to allow a clear view of the working area, even when the head is bent over the table.\n\nWhen working with the textiles, it should be placed on a clean, flat surface which is larger than the textile itself, so that the whole piece is supported evenly. Although it is supported, never place anything on top of the textile while it is in the flat position.\n\nWhen moving the textile, it is important to maintain the flat, even support of the work space. If the piece is small enough (a handkerchief or sampler, for instance), it may be placed on an acid-free board or similar support and carried as if on a tray. If the piece is too large for this (a carpet or tapestry, for example), the piece may be rolled around an acid-free tube and carried by two people to its new location.\nFinally, antique costumes and clothing should never be worn, as the mere process of putting the clothes on and taking them off will cause damage. Additionally, the model may not fit the costume precisely – clothing was for a long time made to fit a specific person, not mass-produced in approximate sizes – causing strain where there should be none and slack where there likewise should be none.\n\nOne of the safest and easiest ways to clean textiles is to vacuum them. The fabric is placed on a clean, flat work surface. If the specimen is particularly delicate, or simply as a precaution, a fibreglass screen edged with twill tape may be placed over the textile. The screen allows dirt and dust to pass through, but prevents individual threads from being pulled loose or unravelled further by the suction. Using a vacuum attachment and the lowest power setting, move the suction over the screen until the entire area has been cleaned. If needed, move the screen to a new area and begin again. Always remember to vacuum both sides of the textile, as dirt may filter through to the other side. Hanging textiles will need to be vacuumed less often than horizontal pieces, as there are fewer places where dust can collect.\n\nOne of the key standards of preservation is that of reversibility: anything done to preserve a piece should be able to be undone with minimal damage to the piece itself. Because wet cleaning is a chemical process, it is not reversible, and so should be used only when absolutely necessary.\n\nBefore cleaning a textile, certain questions should be asked to determine both the best treatment for that particular combination of textile and soil, and to ascertain whether the piece is able to be cleaned, or may sustain damage during the process.\n\nWhat is the chemical composition of the textile? In other words, does it have a high acid content? Were there chemicals used in its production that might contribute to how it reacts to water? Or how it may react to cleaning chemicals?\n\nWhat are the characteristics of the fibres? For instance, cotton and linen, being plant fibers, are both stronger wet than dry, and so may be able to withstand a more mechanical stress than something like silk. Wool can absorb large amounts of water, but mats if washed in high temperatures. All silks become brittle with age, but weighted silks (see Textile Instability above) decay more quickly, and thus must be handled with extreme care. Additionally, some silks, once wet, can be permanently spotted. Learn the basic characteristics of the type of fibres you have, and how they have been treated before undertaking any kind of cleaning.\n\nWhat colourants have been used, and how will they react to cleaning? This can apply not only to dyes but to mordants as well. Different parts of the world may have different dye processes, so here is where knowledge of when and where a textile originated, as well as a working knowledge of chemistry, can come in handy. If in doubt as to the wash ability of a dye, apply a drop or two of water to an inconspicuous place and blot with a clean white cloth. If the dye transfers to the cloth, even in small amounts, the textile should not be washed.\nAre there finishes or surface treatments that must be preserved? For example, is the fabric painted? If so, it should never be washed; some other cleaning method should be used.\n\nWhat kinds of soils are there? The older the stain, the more difficult it is to remove. After a certain point, it may be best to leave the stain or soil, or remove it only partially, in order to preserve the rest of the piece. Additionally, soils which may not be detectable to the naked eye might be present in the textile; flags, for instance, may be highly acidic due to long exposure to air pollutants, and should be treated by a professional conservator.\n\nWhat cleaner is safest and most effective? Commercial detergents should never be used on antique textiles, whatever their claims of gentleness: the chemicals used in most clothes detergents are too harsh for old fibres to withstand. A wide range of speciality detergents are available from conservation suppliers, though most sources suggest Ivory dish soap as a last-minute substitution if needed. Never use chemical spot cleaners, as they are likewise too harsh for old fibres to tolerate. This is especially important for pieces in situ, as this may endanger other nearby pieces as well (the wooden part of an upholstered piece of furniture, for instance).\n\nWhat additives and cleaning aids are needed? This can include physical supplies (water, screens, a vacuum cleaner), as well as chemical (water softener, cleaning agents, etc.).\n\nHow long can the specimen be exposed to the cleaner? Prolonged exposure may cause additional damage to the fibres.\n\nWhat mechanical action can be used? The older and more fragile a textile, the less movement it will be able to tolerate during the cleaning process, so this should be considered before undertaking a cleaning.\n\nOnce the best cleaning process has been determined, the piece should be prepared for washing. Usually, this involves vacuuming to remove any surface dirt. Linings and backing should also be removed, vacuumed, and washed separately. This is not only to prevent colour bleeding, but to avoid trapping dirt between the layers, which may cause discolouration from the inside. Additionally, different fibres react to cleaning in different ways, and fabrics may shrink or stretch, which, if they are still attached together, may cause rippling and distortion in the lining and outer layer of the textile.\n\nAs with moving or working with dry pieces, the textile should be washed in a flat, fully supported position. Usually this is achieved through the use of screens like the ones used in vacuuming, though these may be supported in a frame of some kind for added stability. The textile should be sandwiched between two screens. If the piece is particularly delicate or fragile, it may be wrapped in netting, then placed between the screens. \n\nThe cleaning solution should be prepared using distilled water. If that is unavailable, softened water may be substituted. The main concern is to avoid hard water, which will leave deposits of minerals in the fibres. The solution should be placed in a container large enough for the textile to lie flat in. For large pieces, it may be necessary to construct a temporary basin outside or in a large room: Putnam and Finch suggest using boards or bricks to constrict a frame, then lining it with a large piece of plastic, weighted on the sides, and strong enough to support the water that will be poured into it. If a smaller basin is used, it should be of ceramic, stainless steel or a stable plastic.\n\nThe screen-encased textile is lowered into the solution. The textile can then be washed by pressing a soft sponge directly down onto the fibres. DO NOT RUB the sponge, as this will cause unnecessary abrasion at a moment when the textile is already weak from the water. The textile may be submerged for no more than an hour, and should be rinsed at least four times after it is cleaned (Mailand). The final rinse should always be with distilled water. The textile should be placed to dry on a flat surface or screen, in a well-ventilated room away from heat.\n\nDry cleaning is generally only used for oil stains, as it is a very stressful process of the textile. Commercial dry cleaners should never be used, as the chemicals used in the process are too strong for old fabrics to withstand without damage. If dry cleaning is absolutely necessary, consult a professional conservator.\n\nSteaming and ironing textiles should be done with caution, as the heat may affect the viability of the fibres. More importantly, the fabric should always be cleaned before either of these processes is used, since heat may trap dirt and stains in the fibres to such an extent that the stain becomes permanent. Always use the lowest setting for either of these procedures. If a garment relies on folds to maintain its proper shape (such as pleats), it may be better to finger-press the folds into place when the garment is damp and allow it to dry that way, rather than subject it to the added stress of ironing.\n\nIf a textile item is relatively thin and light, and is safe to wet, it can be laid out flat on a piece of glass which is larger than the item. Before each use, the glass surface should be cleaned with 'safe' cleaners, as for the textile itself (see 'Wet Cleaning,' above), even if the glass has been kept in a clean place. The last rinse of the glass should ideally be with a very clean cotton cloth and distilled water.\n\nLay the textile out as flat as possible on the dry glass. Do not let the textile touch any metal or other casing that protects the edge of the glass. Old storm-windowpanes and glass shower doors are often used for this task, and they usually have their original edging left on, if it's not too bulky, for reasons of safety in handling. If the textile is known to be clean, it can be laid out dry and gently wetted to full saturation. As sections are wetted, any crumples, folds, or details (such as fringes, the picots on the edges of lace, or fine pleats) can be gently teased into place with clean fingertips so that they lie as flat as possible on the glass.\n\nSome old textiles can be flattened on glass just after washing, though it may be best to transfer to the glass fully supported, as on a netting screen or similar. The supporting fabric can be removed by rolling it out from under the textile item as it is laid out on the glass, bit by bit. Just be aware that this can stress the fibres: do not use this method on any old textile that is likely to be damaged by the handling. Let such fabrics dry first, then lay them on the glass and wet them in place.\n\nLet dry completely in a darkened place with good air-flow. The textile can be gently lifted from the glass when it's completely dry, and will usually look just as smooth as if a hot iron had been used on it.\n\nRestoration can be done with techniques like mending and darning.\n\nAs stated in the Climate section, the best storage environment for textiles is clean, dark, cool, and moderately dry, with a constant temperature and relative humidity. Ideally, there should be no strain on any one particular area of cloth. There are three basic kinds of storage for textiles, and the choice of which to use relies on the type of textile and the space available. The three types are: Flat, Rolled, and Hanging storage.\n\nFlat storage is the best option for exceptionally fragile pieces because it provides the most even support for the fibres. Enamelled metal shelves or drawers may be used, or acid-free boxes. The textiles may be placed in the boxes or drawers flat, if at all possible. If folding becomes necessary, acid-free tissue paper should be used to form soft rolls around which the folds can be shaped, to prevent creases from forming. Even so, folded textiles should be removed and refolded differently every few months, to allow even wear on the piece.\n\nFor exceptionally large textiles, such as tapestries, draperies, carpets and quilts, rolled storage is the best option. Like the upholstery section of a fabric store, the rolled storage area should consist of racks, each containing horizontally suspended acid-free or fabric-covered tubes around which the fabrics can be wrapped, being sure to line the selvages up with the edges of the roll. Textiles with a decorative side (such as velvets and embroidered textiles) should always be rolled with the decorative side facing out. This is because the inner layer, especially if there is a lining, may crease, stretch, or fold while it is on the roll. The rolled textiles can then be covered with a muslin wrapper to protect it from dust.\n\nFor costumes, flat storage may create more problems than it solves, since it is impossible to store them in this manner without forming folds and creases. Therefore, unless the costume is so weakened that it cannot support its own weight, hanging storage is perhaps the best option. Costumes which are unusually heavy (heavily beaded gowns, for instance), or those whose fabric may distort easily (such as some stretch fabrics, or those cut on the bias) should also be stored in flat storage. Garments suitable for hanging should be placed on plastic hangers which have been padded to mimic the shape of human shoulders, and covered with a plastic or cloth cover with an open bottom to allow air circulation while keeping the costume clean. Wooden hangers may have a high acid content, which may cause discolouration or decay to the costume. Likewise, metal hangers do not provide sufficient support, and may lead to distortion of the garments’ shoulders. Therefore, both forms of hanging should be avoided.\n\nIf sufficient space is available, selected garments may be stored on dummies to better keep their shape. If this method is used, dummies should be fitted out with the proper undergarments, such as bustles or panniers, to provide adequate support for the garments as they were intended to be worn. However, while the main concern of a display may be to make the garment look attractive on the dummy, storage need have no such considerations. Loose, unsupported parts of the garment (such as sleeves or shirts) should be loosely stuffed with acid-free tissue paper to provide additional support.\n\nCostume accessories can be stored in a variety of ways. Generally, bonnets and gloves should be loosely stuffed with acid-free tissue and placed in archival-quality boxes or under cover. Fans and parasols may be stored in half-open positions, which provide the least amount of stress on the fabrics.\n\nThe conditions required for display of textiles are largely those that have already been discussed in the Storage and Environment sections. Dry, cool, and dark, are to be preferred, with clean surroundings and frequent checks to be certain that the textiles are remaining in good condition. Lighting should be kept to a minimum, and textiles should be rotated through display, so that each is only exposed to light for a few months at a time before being returned to darkness or taken for cleaning/conservation work. Textiles should be vacuumed before and after display.\n\nIn France, conservators specialized in textiles arts are trained at the Institut National du Patrimoine (The National Institute of Cultural Heritage). Their mission is to intervene when heritage resources are threatened or deteriorated for several reasons. The conservator prevents works of art from disappearing or loses its purpose whilst analyzing the complex stage of its material history and the cause of alteration.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1545612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1545612", "title": "Culture of fear", "text": "Culture of fear\n\nPopularized by the American sociologist Barry Glassner, culture of fear (or climate of fear) is the concept that people may incite fear in the general public to achieve political or workplace goals through emotional bias.\n\nA largely unrelated concept in sociology is the \"fear culture\" on the Guilt-Shame-Fear spectrum of cultures.\n\nAshforth discussed potentially destructive sides of leadership and identified what he referred to as petty tyrants: leaders who exercise a tyrannical style of management, resulting in a climate of fear in the workplace. Partial or intermittent negative reinforcement can create an effective climate of fear and doubt. When employees get the sense that bullies are tolerated, a climate of fear may be the result. Several studies have confirmed a relationship between bullying, on one hand, and an autocratic leadership and an authoritarian way of settling conflicts or dealing with disagreements, on the other. An authoritarian style of leadership may create a climate of fear, with little or no room for dialogue and with complaining being considered futile.\n\nIn a study of public-sector union members, approximately one in five workers reported having considered leaving the workplace as a result of witnessing bullying taking place. Rayner explained the figures by pointing to the presence of a climate of fear in which employees considered reporting to be unsafe, where bullies had been tolerated previously despite management knowing of the presence of bullying.\n\nIndividual differences in sensitivity to reward, punishment and motivation have been studied under the premises of reinforcement sensitivity theory and have also been applied to workplace performance.\n\nA culture of fear at the workplace runs contrary to the \"key principles\" established by W. Edwards Deming for managers to transform business effectiveness. One of his fourteen principles is to drive out fear in order to allow everyone to work effectively for the company.\n\nNazi leader Hermann Göring explains how people can be made fearful and to support a war they otherwise would oppose:\n\nIn her book \"State and Opposition in Military Brazil,\" Maria Helena Moreira Alves found a \"culture of fear\" was implemented as part of political repression since 1964. She used the term to describe methods implemented by the national security apparatus of Brazil in its effort to equate political participation with risk of arrest and torture.\n\nCassação (English: cassation) is one such mechanism used to punish members of the military by legally declaring them dead. This enhanced the potential for political control through intensifying the culture of fear as a deterrent to opposition.\n\nAlves found the changes of the National Security Law of 1969, as beginning the use of \"economic exploitation, physical repression, political control, and strict censorship\" to establish a \"culture of fear\" in Brazil. The three psychological components of the culture of fear included silence through censorship, sense of isolation, and a \"generalized belief that all channels of opposition were closed.\" A \"feeling of complete hopelessness,\" prevailed, in addition to \"withdrawal from opposition activity.\"\n\nFormer US National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski argues that the use of the term War on Terror was intended to generate a culture of fear deliberately because it \"obscures reason, intensifies emotions and makes it easier for demagogic politicians to mobilize the public on behalf of the policies they want to pursue\".\n\nFrank Furedi, a former professor of Sociology and writer for \"Spiked\" magazine, says that today's culture of fear did not begin with the collapse of the World Trade Center. Long before September 11, he argues, public panics were widespread – on everything from GM crops to mobile phones, from global warming to foot-and-mouth disease. Like Durodié, Furedi argues that perceptions of risk, ideas about safety and controversies over health, the environment and technology have little to do with science or empirical evidence. Rather, they are shaped by cultural assumptions about human vulnerability. Furedi say that \"we need a grown-up discussion about our post-September 11 world, based on a reasoned evaluation of all the available evidence rather than on irrational fears for the future.\nBritish academics Gabe Mythen and Sandra Walklate argue that following terrorist attacks in New York, the Pentagon, Madrid, and London, government agencies developed a discourse of \"new terrorism\" in a cultural climate of fear and uncertainty. UK researchers argued that these processes reduced notions of public safety and created the simplistic image of a non-white \"terroristic other\" that has negative consequences for ethnic minority groups in the UK.\n\nIn his 2004 BBC documentary film series, \"The Power of Nightmares\", subtitled \"The Rise of the Politics of Fear\", the journalist Adam Curtis argues that politicians have used our fears to increase their power and control over society. Though he does not use the term \"culture of fear,\" what Curtis describes in his film is a reflection of this concept. He looks at the American neo-conservative movement and its depiction of the threat first from the Soviet Union and then from radical Islamists. Curtis insists there has been a largely illusory fear of terrorism in the west since the September 11 attacks and that politicians such as George W Bush and Tony Blair had stumbled on a new force to restore their power and authority; using the fear of an organised \"web of evil\" from which they could protect their people. Curtis's film castigated the media, security forces and the Bush administration for expanding their power in this way. The film features Bill Durodié, then Director of the International Centre for Security Analysis, and Senior Research Fellow in the International Policy Institute, King's College London, saying that to call this network an \"invention\" would be too strong a term, but he asserts that it probably does not exist and is largely a \"(projection) of our own worst fears, and that what we see is a fantasy that's been created.\"\n\nThe consumption of mass media has had a profound effect on instilling the fear of terrorism in the United States, though acts of terror are a rare phenomenon. Beginning in the 1960s, George Gerbner and his colleagues have accelerated the study of the relationship that exists between media consumption and the fear of crime. According to Gerbner, television and other forms of mass media create a worldview that is reflective of “recurrent media messages”, rather than one that is based on reality. Many Americans are exposed to some form of media on a daily basis, with television and social media platforms being the most used methods to receive both local and international news, and as such this is how most receive news and details that center around violent crime and acts of terror. With the rise in use of smartphones and social media, people are bombarded with constant news updates, and able to read stories related to terrorism, stories that come from all corners of the globe. Media fuels fear of terrorism and other threats to national security, all of which have negative psychological effects on the population, such as depression, anxiety, and insomnia. Politicians conduct interviews, televised or otherwise, and utilize their social media platforms immediately after violent crimes and terrorist acts, to further cement the fear of terrorism into the minds of their constituents.\n\nSorted upwards by date, most recent last.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7654110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7654110", "title": "DASH diet", "text": "DASH diet\n\nThe DASH diet (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) is a dietary pattern promoted by the U.S.-based National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), an agency of the United States Department of Health and Human Services) to prevent and control hypertension. The DASH diet is rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat dairy foods; includes meat, fish, poultry, nuts, and beans; and is limited in sugar-sweetened foods and beverages, red meat, and added fats. In addition to its effect on blood pressure, it is designed to be a well-balanced approach to eating for the general public. DASH is recommended by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) as one of its ideal eating plans for all Americans.\n\nThe DASH diet is based on NIH studies that examined three dietary plans and their results. None of the plans were vegetarian, but the DASH plan incorporated more fruits and vegetables, low fat or nonfat dairy, beans, and nuts than the others studied. The DASH diet reduced systolic blood pressure by 6 mm Hg and diastolic blood pressure by 3 mm Hg in patients with high normal blood pressure (formerly called \"pre-hypertension\"). Those with hypertension dropped by 11 and 6 mm Hg, respectively. These changes in blood pressure occurred with no changes in body weight. The DASH dietary pattern is adjusted based on daily caloric intake ranging from 1,600 to 3,100 dietary calories.\n\nThe DASH diet was further tested and developed in the Optimal Macronutrient Intake Trial for Heart Health (OmniHeart diet). \"The DASH and DASH-sodium trials demonstrated that a carbohydrate-rich diet that emphasizes fruits, vegetables, and low-fat dairy products and that is reduced in saturated fat, total fat, and cholesterol substantially lowered blood pressure and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. OmniHeart demonstrated that partial replacement of carbohydrate with either protein (about half from plant sources) or with unsaturated fat (mostly monounsaturated fat) can further reduce blood pressure, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and coronary heart disease risk.\"\n\nIn January 2018, DASH was named the number 1 for \"Best Diets Overall\", \"For Healthy Eating\", and \"Best Heart-Healthy Diet\"; and tied number 2 \"For Diabetes\"(out of 40 diets tested) in the \"U.S. News & World Report\"'s annual “Best Diets” rankings.\n\nCurrently, hypertension is thought to affect roughly 50 million people in the U.S. and approximately 1 billion worldwide. According to the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI), citing data from 2002, “The relationship between BP and risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) events is continuous, consistent, and independent of other risk factors. The higher the BP, the greater is the chance of heart attack, heart failure, stroke, and kidney disease. For individuals 40–70 years of age, each increment of 20 mm Hg in systolic BP (SBP) or 10 mm Hg in diastolic BP (DBP) doubles the risk of CVD across the entire BP range from 115/75 to 185/115 mm Hg.”.\n\nThe prevalence of hypertension led the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) to propose funding to further research the role of dietary patterns on blood pressure. In 1992 the NHLBI worked with five of the most well-respected medical research centers in different cities across the U.S. to conduct the largest and most detailed research study to date. The DASH study used a rigorous design called a randomized controlled trial (RCT), and it involved teams of physicians, nurses, nutritionists, statisticians, and research coordinators working in a cooperative venture in which participants were selected and studied in each of these five research facilities. The chosen facilities and locales for this multi-center study were: (1) Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland, (2) Duke University Medical Center in Durham, North Carolina, (3) Kaiser Permanente Center for Health Research in Portland, Oregon, (4) Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts, and (5) Pennington Biomedical Research Center in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.\n\nTwo DASH trials were designed and carried out as multi-center, randomized, outpatient feeding studies with the purpose of testing the effects of dietary patterns on blood pressure. The standardized multi-center protocol is an approach used in many large-scale multi-center studies funded by the NHLBI. A unique feature of the DASH diet was that the foods and menu were chosen based on conventionally consumed food items so it could be more easily adopted by the general public if results were positive. The initial DASH study was begun in August 1993 and ended in July 1997. Contemporary epidemiological research had concluded that dietary patterns with high intakes of certain minerals and fiber were associated with low blood pressures. The nutritional conceptualization of the DASH meal plans was based in part on this research.\n\nTwo experimental diets were selected for the DASH study and compared with each other, and with a third: the control diet. The control diet was low in potassium, calcium, magnesium and fiber and featured a fat and protein profile so that the pattern was consistent with a “typical American diet at the time”. The first experimental diet was higher in fruits and vegetables but otherwise similar to the control diet (a “fruits and vegetables diet” ), with the exception of fewer snacks and sweets. Magnesium and Potassium levels were close to the 75th percentile of U.S. consumption in the fruits-and-vegetables diet, which also featured a high fiber profile. The second experimental diet was high in fruits-and-vegetables and in low-fat dairy products, as well as lower in overall fat and saturated fat, with higher fiber and higher protein compared with the control diet—this diet has been called “the DASH Diet”. The DASH diet (or combination diet) was rich in potassium, magnesium and calcium—a nutrient profile roughly equivalent with the 75th percentile of U.S. consumption. The combination or “DASH” diet was also high in whole grains, poultry, fish, and nuts while being lower in red meat content, sweets, and sugar-containing beverages.\n\nThe DASH diet was designed to provide liberal amounts of key nutrients thought to play a part in lowering blood pressure, based on past epidemiologic studies. One of the unique features of the DASH study was that dietary patterns rather than single nutrients were being tested. The DASH diet also features a high quotient of anti-oxidant rich foods thought by some to retard or prevent chronic health problems including cancer, heart disease, and stroke.\n\nResearchers have also found that the DASH diet is more effective than a low oxalate diet in the prevention and treatment of kidney stones, specifically calcium oxalate kidney stones (the most common type).\n\nParticipants ate one of the three aforementioned dietary patterns in 3 separate phases of the trial, including (1) Screening, (2), Run-in and (3) Intervention. In the screening phase, participants were screened for eligibility based on the combined results of blood pressure readings. In the 3 week run-in phase, each subject was given the control diet for 3 weeks, had their blood pressure measurements taken on each of five separate days, gave one 24-hour urine sample and completed a questionnaire on symptoms. At this point, subjects who were compliant with the feeding program during the screening phase were each randomly assigned to one of the three diets outlined above, to begin at the start of the 4th week. The intervention phase followed next; this was an 8-week period in which the subjects were provided the diet to which they had been randomly assigned. Blood pressures and urine samples were collected again during this time together with symptom & physical activity recall questionnaires. The first group of study subjects began the run-in phase of the trial in September 1994 while the fifth and final group began in January 1996. Each of the three diets contained the same 3 grams (3,000 mg) of sodium, selected because that was the approximate average intake in the nation at the time. Participants were also given two packets of salt, each containing 200 mg of sodium, for discretionary use. Alcohol was limited to no more than two beverages per day, and caffeine intake was limited to no more than three caffeinated beverages.\n\nThe DASH trial showed that dietary patterns can and do affect blood pressure in the high normal BP to moderately hypertensive adult population (systolic < 180 mm Hg & diastolic of 80 to 95 mm Hg). Respectively, the DASH or “combination” diet lowered blood pressures by an average of 5.5 and 3.0 mm Hg for systolic and diastolic, compared with the control diet. The minority portion of the study sample and the hypertensive portion both showed the largest reductions in blood pressure from the combination diet against the control diet. The hypertensive subjects experienced a drop of 11.4 mm Hg in their systolic and 5.5 mm Hg in their diastolic phases. The fruits-and-vegetables diet was also successful, although it produced more modest reductions compared with the control diet (2.8 mm Hg systolic and 1.1 mm Hg diastolic). In the subjects with and without hypertension, the combination diet effectively reduced blood pressure more than the fruits-and-vegetables diet or the control diet did. The data indicated that reductions in blood pressure occurred within two weeks of subjects’ starting their designated diets, and that the results were generalizable to the target sample of the U.S. population. Side effects were negligible, but the NEJM study reports that some subjects reported constipation as a problem. At the end of the intervention phase, 10.1, 5.4 & 4.0 percent of the subjects reported this problem for the control, fruits-and-vegetables and combination diets, respectively, showing that the fruits and vegetables and combination diets reduce constipation. Apart from only one subject (on the control diet) who was suffering from cholecystitis, other gastrointestinal symptoms had a low rate of incidence.\n\nThe DASH-Sodium study was conducted following the end of the original DASH study to determine whether the DASH diet could produce even better results if it were low in salt and also to examine the effects of different levels of sodium in people eating the DASH diet. The researchers were interested in determining the effects of sodium reduction when combined with the DASH diet as well as the effects of the DASH diet when at three levels of sodium intake. The DASH-Sodium trial was conducted from September 1997 through November 1999. Like the previous study, it was based on a large sample (412 participants) and was a multi-center, randomized, outpatient feeding study where the subjects were given all their food. The participants were adults with prehypertension or stage 1 hypertension (average systolic of 120 to 159 mm Hg & average diastolic of 80 to 95 mm Hg) and were randomly assigned to one of two diet groups. The two randomized diet groups were the DASH diet and a control diet that mirrored a “typical American diet”, and which was somewhat low in key nutrients such as potassium, magnesium and calcium. The DASH diet was the same as in the previous DASH study. After being assigned to one of these two diets, the participants were given diets that differed by 3 distinct levels of sodium content, corresponding to 3,000 mg, 2,400 mg or 1,500 mg/day (higher, intermediate or lower), in random order, for 30 consecutive days each. During the two-week run-in phase, all participants ate the high sodium control diet. The 30-day intervention phase followed, in which subjects ate their assigned diets at each of the aforementioned sodium levels (high, intermediate and low) in random order, in a crossover design. During the 30-day dietary intervention phase, each participant therefore consumed his or her assigned diet (either DASH or control) at all three sodium levels.\n\nThe primary outcome of the DASH-Sodium study was systolic blood pressure at the end of the 30-day dietary intervention periods. The secondary outcome was diastolic blood pressure. The DASH-Sodium study found that reductions in sodium intake produced significantly lower systolic and diastolic blood pressures in both the control and DASH diets. Study results indicate that the quantity of dietary sodium in the control diet was twice as powerful in its effect on blood pressure as it was in the DASH diet. Importantly, the control diet sodium reductions from intermediate to low correlated with greater changes in systolic blood pressure than those same changes from high to intermediate (change equal to roughly 40 mmol per day, or 1 gram of sodium).\n\nAs stated by Sacks, F. et al., reductions in sodium intake by this amount per day correlated with greater decreases in blood pressure when the starting sodium intake level was already at the U.S. recommended dietary allowance, than when the starting level was higher (higher levels are the actual average in the U.S.). These results led researchers to postulate that the adoption of a national lower daily allowance for sodium than the currently held 2,400 mg could be based on the sound scientific results provided by this study. The U.S. Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommend eating a diet of 2300 mg of sodium a day or lower, with a recommendation of 1500 mg/day in adults who have elevated blood pressure; the 1500 mg/day is the low sodium level tested in the DASH-Sodium study.\nThe DASH diet and the control diet at the lower salt levels were both successful in lowering blood pressure, but the largest reductions in blood pressure were obtained by eating a combination of these two (i.e., a lower-salt version of the DASH diet). The effect of this combination at a sodium level of 1,500 mg/day was an average blood pressure reduction of 8.9/4.5 mm Hg (systolic/diastolic). The hypertensive subjects experienced an average reduction of 11.5/5.7 mm Hg. The DASH-sodium results indicate that low sodium levels correlated with the largest reductions in blood pressure for participants at both pre-hypertensive and hypertensive levels, with the hypertensive participants showing the greatest reductions in blood pressure overall.\n\nFollowing the publication of DASH and DASH-Sodium studies, the Welch Clinical Research teams published the OmniHeart and OmniCarb studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53374476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53374476", "title": "Deputy Chair of the Democratic National Committee", "text": "Deputy Chair of the Democratic National Committee\n\nThe Deputy Chair of the Democratic National Committee is a position within the United States Democratic Party that was re-established by Tom Perez in February 2017 after the 2017 DNC Chair race, won by Perez. \n\nAfter a close victory over Minnesota Congressman Keith Ellison, Perez appointed Ellison as Deputy Chair in an attempt to lessen the divide in the Democratic Party after the contentious 2016 Democratic presidential primaries, which saw conflicts between supporters of Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders. Perez was seen as being more in line with the Clinton wing, while Ellison was more in line with the Sanders wing.\n\nThe role's revival in 2017 has been described by critics as largely titular and ceremonial.\n"}
{"id": "55871563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55871563", "title": "Dirty John", "text": "Dirty John\n\nDirty John is an investigative journalism podcast hosted by journalist Christopher Goffard and created by \"Wondery\" and \"Los Angeles Times\". The first two chapters were launched on October 2, 2017, with the following four chapters being released over the following days. The podcast was downloaded over 10 million times within 6 weeks of release.\n\nThe title \"Dirty John\" came from one of John Meehan's nicknames given to him by his classmates during his time at the University of Dayton. Other nicknames from this time included Filthy John or just Filthy. The exact nexus of these nicknames was never divulged during the podcast.\n\n\"Dirty John\" is a true crime story focusing on the life and exploits of John Meehan. \"L.A. Times\" journalist Christopher Goffard first heard of Meehan when he learned that the police were investigating a possible murder in Newport Beach. Upon investigating, Goffard discovered a bizarre web of deceit and abuse.\n\nThe main focus of the story is Meehan's relationship with businesswoman Debra Newell, whom he met via an Internet dating site, as well as her immediate and extended family. The podcast deals with themes of abuse and manipulation, as well as the behaviours of those being abused.\n\nMeehan himself was killed by Newell's youngest daughter Terra, who acted in self-defense when he tried to kill her on the rooftop parking lot of her apartment building on August 20, 2016. He was hospitalized and died on the 24th. The story was covered by \"Dateline NBC\" on January 12, 2018, and included interviews with Goffard.\n\n\n\"Dirty John\" proved to be very popular with audiences, spending over three weeks at the top of the US iTunes podcast charts, whilst also topping the charts in Australia, Canada, and the UK and was downloaded over 5 million times in 3 weeks. \"Dirty John\" would have continued success having been downloaded over 10 million times within 6 weeks of release, and as of November 23, 2017 is 6th most downloaded podcasts on iTunes America.\n\nCritical reception was also positive, with the NME calling it \"the best true crime podcast since \"Serial\"\", whilst The Guardian listed \"Dirty John\" as their podcast pick of the week. \"Dirty John\" also received positive reviews from Mashable, The New Yorker, Rolling Stone and The Daily Telegraph amongst others.\n\nVulture.com meanwhile praised the story as \"stunning\" but questioned the necessity of using a podcast as a way to share the story.\n\nA limited series based on the podcast debuted on Bravo on November 25, 2018. It was created, produced, and written by Alexandra Cunningham, and stars Connie Britton and Eric Bana.\n\n"}
{"id": "50500145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50500145", "title": "Early Man (film)", "text": "Early Man (film)\n\nEarly Man is a 2018 British stop-motion animated historical sports comedy film directed by Nick Park, written by Mark Burton and James Higginson, and starring the voices of Eddie Redmayne, Tom Hiddleston, Maisie Williams, and Timothy Spall. The film follows a tribe of primitive Stone Age valley dwellers, who have to defend their land from bronze-using invaders in an association football match. \n\nThe film was produced by Aardman Animations and BFI and was released on 26 January 2018 in the United Kingdom, and in the United States on 16 February 2018. The film received very positive reviews from critics, but it was a box office disappointment, grossing only $54 million against its $50 million budget. It currently has an 82% score on Rotten Tomatoes.\n\nAn asteroid collides with the prehistoric Earth, causing the extinction of the planet’s dinosaurs, but sparing a tribe of cavemen living near the impact site. Finding a roughly spherical chunk of the asteroid that is too hot to touch, the cavemen begin to kick it around and invent the game of football.\n\nMany years later during the Stone Age, a young caveman named Dug (Eddie Redmayne) lives in the village with the chief Bobnar (Timothy Spall) and many other cavemen such as Asbo, (Johnny Vegas), Gravelle (Gina Yashere), Treebor (Richard Ayoade), Magma (Selina Griffiths), Barry (Mark Williams), Grubup (Richard Webber), Thongo (Simon Greenall) and Eemak (Simon Greenall). One day, Dug suggests to Bobnar that they should try hunting woolly mammoths instead of rabbits, but Bobnar brushes him off. \n\nA Bronze Age army of War Mammoths led by Lord Nooth (Tom Hiddleston) drives the tribe out of the valley and into the surrounding volcanic badlands, proclaiming that the Stone Age has ended and the Bronze Age has begun. Dug tries to attack the army, but falls into a cart and is unknowingly taken to Nooth’s city. While trying to evade the guards and escape, he is mistaken for a football player and led onto the pitch before a full stadium crowd. He challenges Nooth’s elite local team to a match with the valley at stake and promises that the tribe will work in Nooth’s mines forever if they lose. Nooth dismisses the proposal at first, but changes his mind once he realises that he can profit from the match.\n\nDug discovers that although his ancestors invented football, the other members of his tribe are too dim to understand it. After their only ball is destroyed, Dug and his pet boar Hognob (Nick Park) sneak into the city to steal more but are found by a resident named Goona (Maisie Williams). Resentful over the team’s exclusion of women, she helps them steal some balls and agrees to coach the cavemen.\n\nGoona points out that the players on Nooth’s team are talented but too egotistical to work together effectively. The cavemen improve in skill and teamwork under her coaching. Nooth receives a Message Bird (Rob Brydon) from Queen Oofeefa, warning him to not underestimate Dug's team. To demoralise Dug, Nooth has him brought to the mines and shows him cave paintings made by his tribe’s ancestors, who proved so inept at football that they never won a match and eventually gave up the sport. \n\nOn the day of the match, with Oofeefa (Miriam Margolyes) in attendance, Dug announces his forfeiture as part of a deal to spare the rest of the tribe and agrees to take their place in the mines. However, his reinvigorated teammates persuade him to break the deal and play the match. They are down 3–1 at half-time, but rally in the second half to tie the score. Nooth incapacitates the referee and takes his place, making biased calls in favour of the local team that leads to Bobnar (the cavemen's goalkeeper) being knocked out. \n\nHognob takes his place and blocks a penalty kick, and Dug scores using a bicycle kick to win the match for the cavemen, 4–3. The cavemen win their village back with the respect of Oofeefa, the local team, and the crowd. Nooth tries to escape and steal the crowd's admission money, but Goona stops him with help from a giant duck; Nooth is arrested for his crimes and everyone gets their money back.\n\nGoona and Nooth's elite local team join Dug’s tribe for a hunt, and they are chased away by a rabbit pretending to be a woolly mammoth.\n\n\nIn addition to a rabbit that Dug's tribe constantly hunts every day, a Ceratosaurus and a Triceratops similar to the ones from \"One Million Years B.C.\" are seen fighting each other at the opening of the film prior to the asteroid striking Earth. In the end credits, they go by the name Ray (Ceratosaurus), and Harry (Triceratops).\n\nAs with previous stop motion films created by Aardman, the characters in \"Early Man\" were developed over time with the voice actors to determine the way the characters look, move, and speak. The results were turned over to the film's 35 animators to work on individualizing the characters. A crowd of people took part in an audio recording at the Memorial Stadium Home of Bristol Rovers.\n\nOn 21 September 2017, a competition was launched on the CBBC television programme \"Blue Peter\" to design a prehistoric character inspired by \"Early Man\", with the winner receiving the opportunity to see their character brought to life by Aardman, as well as receiving tickets to the premiere alongside the runners up. It closed on 12 October 2017, and the winner was announced in January 2018.\n\n\"Early Man\" was released in the United Kingdom on 26 January 2018, by StudioCanal. StudioCanal also distributed the film in France, Germany, Australia and New Zealand. In the United States, it was released on 16 February 2018, by Lionsgate, through its Summit Entertainment label. The teaser trailer was released on 16 March 2017, and the first trailer was released on 7 September.\n\n\"Early Man\" has made $54 million worldwide with the top countries being the United Kingdom ($15.7 million), USA ($8.3 million) and France ($6.9 million).\n\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 82% based on 155 reviews, and an average rating of 6.7/10, making it the lowest rated film Nick Park has made. The website's critical consensus reads, \"\"Early Man\" isn't quite as evolved as Aardman's best work, but still retains the unique visuals and sweet humour that have made the studio a favourite among animation enthusiasts.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 68 out of 100, based on 39 critics, indicating \"generally favourable reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nThe soundtrack, titled Early Man: (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack), was released under Lionsgate on 26 January 2018, the same day the film was released.\n\n"}
{"id": "22649037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22649037", "title": "Edinburgh Festival Fringe 2003", "text": "Edinburgh Festival Fringe 2003\n\nThe 2003 Edinburgh Festival Fringe was the 56th Edinburgh Festival Fringe. The Fringe ran from 3–25 August 2003 and presented 1541 shows over 207 venues. 2003 was the first year that over one million tickets were sold at the Fringe.\n\nThe Pod, a 400 seater theatre on Festival Square, was erected for the first time and hosted acts including Daniel Kitson, Tommy Tiernan and Danny Bhoy\n\nThe Spiegeltent moved to a new location on George Square Gardens, to where it has returned each year since.\n\nUnusual venues at the 2003 Fringe included a public toilet, a bus and a lift.\n\nPerrier Comedy Award\n\nWinner:\n\nNominees:\n\nBest Newcomer Award\nWinner:\n\nNominees:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10805236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10805236", "title": "El Sheikh Sa'id", "text": "El Sheikh Sa'id\n\nEl Sheikh Sa'id is a small village in the Minya Governorate in Upper Egypt. Situated on the east bank of the Nile, it is named after a local Muslim saint buried in the area.\n\nEl Sheikh Sa'id comprises the rock-cut tombs of the nomarchs of the Hare nome (the 15th Upper Egyptian nome) from the 6th Dynasty. These tombs are cut in steep cliffs. The use of this necropolis declined during the First Intermediate Period, when the nomarchial necropolis was transferred slightly northward to Deir El Bersha.\n"}
{"id": "8768112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8768112", "title": "Enikő Bollobás", "text": "Enikő Bollobás\n\nEnikő Bollobás (born June 19, 1952 in Budapest, Hungary) is a Hungarian literary scholar, Professor of the Department of American Studies at Eötvös Loránd University, Budapest. Homepage: www.bollobaseniko.com\n\nBollobás has written seven books on literature as well as numerous cultural and critical articles. A graduate of ELTE (Eötvös Loránd University), she has been affiliated with this school (as associate professor, later professor) since 1990, when she co-founded the Department of American Studies with two colleagues, Zoltán Kövecses and Gyula Kodolányi.\n\nOn several occasions she was Visiting Professor and Visiting Scholar in the U.S (University of Oregon, Eugene; University of Iowa; University of California, San Diego). She has been invited to speak at various universities, including Cambridge University (England), Yale, Berkeley, Stanford, Georgetown, and George Washington University.\n\nHer research and publication fields include American literature and culture, Hungarian literature, Women’s studies/Gender studies, Jewish studies, social issues.\n\nRecipient of several awards in recognition of her scholarly achievement, Bollobás has been awarded the HUSSE Best Book Award (for her \"History of American Literature\"), the László Országh Prize for lifetime achievement, the Order of Merit of the Hungarian Republic, and the Albert Szent-Györgyi Prize.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Ms. Bollobás was active in the political opposition. For her participation in human and minority rights movements in Transylvania, Romanian authorities permanently expelled her from Ceauşescu’s Romania in 1982; this step was instantly backed by the Hungarian authorities, who withdrew even her “red passport” (valid to Warsaw Pact countries). As part of her commitment to human rights, in 1989 she founded the Szeged-based political discussion group \"Hungarian Feminists\", the first non-communist organization to address women’s issues.\n\nAfter the regime change Ms. Bollobás worked in government administration: as Deputy Chief of Mission and Chargé d'Affaires at the Hungarian Embassy in Washington, D.C., and as Director of the Department of Atlantic, Northern European, and Israeli Affairs of the Hungarian Foreign Ministry in Budapest. She served as Vice Chair and Secretary General (1992–1996) of the Hungarian Atlantic Council, lobbying at the time for Hungary’s NATO membership.\n\nHer professional interests range from theories of modernism and postmodernism, American modern and postmodern literatures, the traditions of experimentation and avant-garde, and free verse prosodies to post-deconstruction theories, feminist theory and criticism, American studies theories. She has published seven books on American literature:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9418", "title": "Epic poetry", "text": "Epic poetry\n\nAn epic poem, epic, epos, or epopee is a lengthy narrative poem, ordinarily involving a time beyond living memory in which occurred the extraordinary doings of the extraordinary men and women who, in dealings with the gods or other superhuman forces, gave shape to the moral universe that their descendants, the poet and his audience, must understand to understand themselves as a people or nation.\n\nAnother type of epic poetry is epyllion (plural: epyllia), which is a brief narrative poem with a romantic or mythological theme. The term, which means \"little epic\", came into use in the nineteenth century. It refers primarily to the erudite, shorter hexameter poems of the Hellenistic period and the similar works composed at Rome from the age of the neoterics; to a lesser degree, the term includes some poems of the English Renaissance, particularly those influenced by Ovid. The most famous example of classical epyllion is perhaps Catullus 64.\n\nThe English word \"epic\" comes from the Latin \"epicus\", which itself comes from the Ancient Greek adjective (\"epikos\"), from (\"epos\"), \"word, story, poem\".\n\nOriginating before the invention of writing, primary epics were composed by bards who used complex rhetorical and metrical schemes by which they could memorize the epic as received in tradition and add to the epic in their performances. Hence aside from writers like Dante, Camões, and Milton, Apollonius of Rhodes in his \"Argonautica\" and Virgil in \"Aeneid\" adopted and adapted Homer's style and subject matter, but used devices available only to those who write, and in their works Nonnus' \"Dionysiaca\" and Tulsidas' \"Sri Ramacharit Manas\" also used stylistic elements typical of epics.\n\nThe oldest epic recognized is the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" (), which was recorded In ancient Sumer during the Neo-Sumerian Empire. The poem details the exploits of Gilgamesh, the king of Uruk. Although recognized as a historical figure, Gilgamesh, as represented in the epic, is a largely legendary or mythical figure.\n\nThe longest epic written is the ancient Indian \"Mahabharata\", which consists of 100,000 ślokas or over 200,000 verse lines (each shloka is a couplet), as well as long prose passages, so that at about 1.8 million words it is about four times the length of the \"Rāmāyaṇa\", and roughly ten times the length of the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" combined.\n\nFamous examples of epic poetry include the Sumerian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", the ancient Indian \"Mahabharata\" and \"Rāmāyaṇa\", the Tamil \"Silappatikaram\", the Persian \"Shahnameh\", the Ancient Greek \"Odyssey\" and \"Iliad\", Virgil's \"Aeneid\", the Old English \"Beowulf\", Dante's \"Divine Comedy\", the Finnish \"Kalevala\", the German \"Nibelungenlied\", the French \"Song of Roland\", the Spanish \"Cantar de mio Cid\", Camões' Os \"Lusíadas\", John Milton's \"Paradise Lost\", and Adam Mickiewicz's \"Pan Tadeusz\".\n\nThe first epics were products of preliterate societies and oral history poetic traditions. Oral tradition was used alongside written scriptures to communicate and facilitate the spread culture. In these traditions, poetry is transmitted to the audience and from performer to performer by purely oral means. Early twentieth-century study of living oral epic traditions in the Balkans by Milman Parry and Albert Lord demonstrated the paratactic model used for composing these poems. What they demonstrated was that oral epics tend to be constructed in short episodes, each of equal status, interest and importance. This facilitates memorization, as the poet is recalling each episode in turn and using the completed episodes to recreate the entire epic as he performs it. Parry and Lord also contend that the most likely source for written texts of the epics of Homer was dictation from an oral performance.\n\nMilman Parry and Albert Lord have argued that the Homeric epics, the earliest works of Western literature, were fundamentally an oral poetic form. These works form the basis of the epic genre in Western literature. Nearly all of Western epic (including Virgil's \"Aeneid\" and Dante's \"Divine Comedy\") self-consciously presents itself as a continuation of the tradition begun by these poems. Classical epic poetry employs a meter called dactylic hexameter and recounts a journey, either physical (as typified by Odysseus in the \"Odyssey\") or mental (as typified by Achilles in the \"Iliad\") or both. Epics also tend to highlight cultural norms and to define or call into question cultural values, particularly as they pertain to heroism.\n\nIn his work \"Poetics\", Aristotle defines an epic as one of the forms of poetry, contrasted with lyric poetry and with drama in the form of tragedy and comedy.\n\nIn \"A Handbook to Literature\" (1999), Harmon and Holman define an epic:\nEpic: a long narrative poem in elevated style presenting characters of high position in adventures forming an organic whole through their relation to a central heroic figure and through their development of episodes important to the history of a nation or race. (Harmon and Holman)\n\nAn attempt to delineate ten main characteristics of an epic:\n\nThe hero generally participates in a cyclical journey or quest, faces adversaries that try to defeat him in his journey and returns home significantly transformed by his journey. The epic hero illustrates traits, performs deeds, and exemplifies certain morals that are valued by the society the epic originates from. Many epic heroes are recurring characters in the legends of their native culture.\n\nConventions of epics:\n\nMany verse forms have been used in epic poems through the ages, but each language's literature typically gravitates to one form, or at least to a very limited set. Ancient Sumerian epic poems did not use any kind of poetic meter and lines did not have consistent lengths; instead, Sumerian poems derived their rhythm solely through constant repetition, with subtle variations between lines. Indo-European epic poetry, by contrast, usually places strong emphasis on the importance of line consistency and poetic meter. Ancient Greek and Latin poems were written in dactylic hexameter. Old English, German and Norse poems were written in alliterative verse, usually without rhyme. Italian, Spanish and Portuguese long poems were usually written in terza rima or especially ottava rima. From the 14th century English epic poems were written in heroic couplets, and rhyme royal, though in the 16th century the Spenserian stanza and blank verse were also introduced. The French alexandrine is currently the heroic line in French literature, though in earlier periods the decasyllable took precedence. In Polish literature, couplets of Polish alexandrines (syllabic lines of 7+6 syllables) prevail. In Russian, iambic tetrameter verse is the most popular. In Serbian poetry, the decasyllable is the only form employed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32400568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32400568", "title": "Family (US Census)", "text": "Family (US Census)\n\nA family is defined by the United States Census Bureau for statistical purposes as \"a group of two people or more (one of whom is the householder) related by birth, marriage, or adoption and residing together; all such people (including related subfamily members) are considered as members of one family.\" \n\nA family household is more inclusive, consisting of \"a household maintained by a householder who is in a family (as defined above), and includes any unrelated people (unrelated subfamily members and/or secondary individuals) who may be residing there.\" \n\nIn 2014 the US Census Bureau began including same-sex marriages in their counts of families and family households. Prior to this, they were counted as cohabiting partners and thus not considered to form a family.\n\nHence, households consisting of grandparents and grandchildren without the intervening generation are not \"families\".\n\n"}
{"id": "711716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=711716", "title": "GRS 80", "text": "GRS 80\n\nGRS 80, or Geodetic Reference System 1980, is a geodetic reference system consisting of a global reference ellipsoid and a gravity field model.\n\nGeodesy is the scientific discipline that deals with the measurement and representation of the earth, its gravitational field and geodynamic phenomena (polar motion, earth tides, and crustal motion) in three-dimensional, time-varying space.\n\nThe geoid is essentially the figure of the Earth abstracted from its topographic features. It is an idealized equilibrium surface of sea water, the mean sea level surface in the absence of currents, air pressure variations etc. and continued under the continental masses. The geoid, unlike the ellipsoid, is irregular and too complicated to serve as the computational surface on which to solve geometrical problems like point positioning. The geometrical separation between it and the reference ellipsoid is called the geoidal undulation, or more usually the geoid-ellipsoid separation, \"N\". It varies globally between .\n\nA reference ellipsoid, customarily chosen to be the same size (volume) as the geoid, is described by its semi-major axis (equatorial\nradius) \"a\" and flattening \"f\". The quantity \"f\" = (\"a\"−\"b\")/\"a\", where \"b\" is the semi-minor axis (polar radius), is a purely geometrical one. The mechanical ellipticity of the earth (dynamical flattening, symbol \"J\") is determined to high precision by observation of satellite orbit perturbations. Its relationship with the geometric flattening is indirect. The relationship depends on the internal density distribution.\n\nThe 1980 Geodetic Reference System (GRS 80) posited a semi-major axis and a flattening. This system was adopted at the XVII General Assembly of the International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics (IUGG) in Canberra, Australia, 1979.\n\nThe GRS 80 reference system was originally used by the World Geodetic System 1984 (WGS 84). The reference ellipsoid of WGS 84 now differs slightly due to later refinements.\n\nThe numerous other systems which have been used by diverse countries for their maps and charts are gradually dropping out of use as more and more countries move to global, geocentric reference systems using the GRS80 reference ellipsoid.\n\nThe reference ellipsoid is usually defined by its semi-major axis (equatorial\nradius) formula_1 and either its semi-minor axis (polar radius) formula_2, aspect ratio formula_3 or flattening formula_4, but GRS80 is an exception: For a complete definition, \"four\" independent constants are required. GRS80 chooses as these formula_1, formula_6, formula_7 and formula_8, making the geometrical constant formula_4 a derived quantity.\n\n\n\n\nThe formula giving the eccentricity of the GRS80 spheroid is\n\nformula_24\n\nwhere\n\nformula_25\n\nand formula_26 (so arctan e' = arcsin e). The equation is solved iteratively to give\n\nformula_27\n\nwhich gives\n\nformula_28\n\n"}
{"id": "12256272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12256272", "title": "Grave and acute", "text": "Grave and acute\n\nIn some schools of phonetics, sounds are distinguished as grave or acute. This is primarily a perceptual classification, based on whether the sounds are perceived as sharp, high intensity, or as dull, low intensity. However, it can also be defined acoustically (acute sounds have a concentration of energy in the higher spectrum, versus graves which have a concentration of energy in the lower spectrum) or in terms of the articulations involved.\n\nAcute sounds generally have high perceptual intensity, and in the case of consonants have been defined as those with an active articulation involving the tongue and a passive articulation involving anywhere on the roof of the mouth that a coronal articulation can reach, that is, from the to the region. \n\nGrave sounds are all other sounds, that is, those involving the lips as either passive or active articulator, or those involving any articulation in the soft palate or throat.\n\nMost acute sounds are , and most coronals are acute. In particular, palatal consonants are acute but not coronal, while linguolabial consonants are coronal but not acute. The distinction can be useful in diachronic linguistics, as conditional sound changes often act differently on acute and grave consonants, consonants are highly likely to preserve their acuteness/graveness through sound change; and changes between acute and grave can often be well circumscribed. (For example, palatalization applied to back grave consonants usually produces acute consonants.) In this regard, the fact that articulations are included as \"acute\" is important because of the acoustic similarity between true palatal and palatalized coronal consonants and the fact that one often changes into the other. \n\nSimilarly, \"acute\" and \"\" often overlap, but again share some differences. In particular, consonants articulated with the lip are front but not acute, and consonants with a articulation are acute but not front. A parallel relationship applies to and . Articulations with the lip as passive articulator (i.e. and ) are front but not coronal, while is coronal but not front. \n\nIn the case of vowels, \"acute\" typically refers to front vowels, which often trigger palatalization of consonants, which \"grave\" refers to non-front vowels.\n\nThe grave/acute distinction has lost its relevance in modern phonetics, bur it may still be relevant to other disciplines. The distinction dates from relatively early in the days of acoustic phonetics, at a time that some phonologists believed that one could categorize all speech sounds by a finite set of acoustically-defined distinctive features, which were supposed to correspond to auditory impressions of sounds. The pioneering publication was Jakobson, Fant and Halle (1951) \"Preliminaries to Speech Analysis\" (MIT). Grave/acute was defined primarily in acoustic terms (with some reference to auditory qualities), but sounds were given a secondary description (or gloss) in terms of their articulation. Features like grave/acute could be used to divide speech sounds into broad classes. For most phoneticians, the JF&H features had been superseded by 1968 by the articulatory features set out in Chomsky and Halle’s \"Sound Pattern of English\" and by competing articulatory features, which devised by Ladefoged in such publications as \"Preliminaries to Linguistic Phonetics\" (1971).\n\n"}
{"id": "853231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=853231", "title": "Into Thin Air", "text": "Into Thin Air\n\nInto Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster is a 1997 bestselling non-fiction book written by Jon Krakauer. It details the author's experience at the 1996 Mount Everest disaster, in which eight climbers were killed and several others were stranded by a rogue storm. The author's expedition was led by guide Rob Hall, and there were other groups trying to summit on the same day, including one led by Scott Fischer, whose guiding agency, Mountain Madness, was perceived as a competitor to Rob Hall's agency, Adventure Consultants.\n\nKrakauer describes the events leading up to his eventual decision to participate in an Everest expedition in May 1996, despite having mostly given up mountain-climbing years before. The 1996 expedition season recorded 8 deaths, including that of Krakauer's guide Andy Harris. This was the third-highest recorded number of deaths on the mountain in a single day; the April 2015 Nepal earthquake caused the most at 21.\n\nKrakauer, a journalist for the adventure magazine \"Outside\", initially said his intentions to climb Everest were purely professional. The original magazine story was to have Krakauer climb only to base camp, and report on the commercialization of the mountain. However, the idea of Everest reawakened his childhood desire to climb the mountain. Krakauer asked his editor to put off the story for a year so that he could train for a climb to the summit. From there, the book moves between events that take place on the mountain, and the unfolding tragedy, which takes place during the push to the summit. In the book, Krakauer alleges that essential safety methods adopted over the years by experienced guides on Everest are sometimes compromised by the competition between rival guiding agencies, in order to get their clients to the summit.\n\nKrakauer's recounting of certain aspects of the ill-fated climb has generated criticism, both from some of the climb's participants and from renowned mountaineers such as Galen Rowell. Much of the disputed material centers on Krakauer's accounting of the actions of Russian climber and guide Anatoli Boukreev. An experienced high-altitude climber and guide for Scott Fischer, Boukreev descended the summit prior to his clients, ostensibly out of concern for their safety and in preparation for potential rescue efforts. Boukreev later mounted repeated solo rescue efforts, saving several lives. In his book, Krakauer acknowledged Boukreev's heroism in saving two climbers' lives, but questions his judgment, his decision to descend before clients, not using supplementary oxygen, his choices of gear on the mountain, and his interaction with clients. Boukreev provides a rebuttal to these allegations in his book, \"The Climb\".\n\nGalen Rowell criticized Krakauer's account, citing numerous inconsistencies in his narrative while observing that Krakauer was sleeping in his tent while Boukreev was rescuing other climbers. Rowell argued that Boukreev's actions were nothing short of heroic, and his judgment prescient: \"[Boukreev] foresaw problems with clients nearing camp, noted five other guides on the peak [Everest], and positioned himself to be rested and hydrated enough to respond to an emergency. His heroism was not a fluke.\"\n\nThe account has also been criticized for not informing the reader that the team members were receiving accurate daily weather forecasts and knew about the storm in advance.\n\nIn Krakauer's 1999 paperback edition of \"Into Thin Air\", he addresses some of the criticism in a lengthy postscript.\n\nFilm rights for \"Into Thin Air\" were purchased by Sony almost immediately after the book's publication. The book was adapted into the TV movie \"\" (1997), starring Peter Horton as Scott Fischer and Christopher McDonald as Jon Krakauer. The book and the film both contain the same strong editorial viewpoint regarding the fundamental causes of the tragedy, although the film differs sharply from the book in details regarding responsibility.\n\nThe 2015 film \"Everest\", by director Baltasar Kormákur depicts the same events as the book, with actor Michael Kelly portraying Krakauer. According to Kormákur, it is not based on Krakauer's book.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14885683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14885683", "title": "James Lockhart (historian)", "text": "James Lockhart (historian)\n\nJames Lockhart (born April 8, 1933 - January 17, 2014) was a U.S. historian of colonial Latin America, especially the Nahua people and Nahuatl language.\n\nBorn in Huntington, West Virginia, Lockhart attended West Virginia University (BA, 1956) and the University of Wisconsin–Madison (MA, 1962; PhD, 1967). Late in life, Lockhart wrote a short, candid memoir. He joined the US Army and was posted to Germany, working in \"a low-level intelligence agency,\" translating letters from East Germany. Returning to the US, he entered the graduate program at University of Wisconsin, where he pursued his in the social history of conquest-era Peru. \n\nHis dissertation, published in 1968 as \"Spanish Peru, 1531-1560\" was a path breaking approach to this early period. Less interested in the complicated political events of the era, he focused on the formation of Spanish colonial society in the midst of Spanish war with the indigenous and internecine struggles between factions of conquerors. With separate chapters on different social groups, including Africans and indigenous brought into the Spanish sphere, and an important chapter on women of the conquest era, his work shifted the understanding of that era. His main source for the people and processes of this early period were notarial documents, often property transfers and other types of legal agreements, which gave insight into the formation and function of Spanish colonial society. The work is now a classic and was published in a second, revised edition in 1994. \n\nWhile researching \"Spanish Peru\", he compiled information on the Spaniards who received a share of the ransom of the Inca Atahualpa, extracted at Cajamarca. \"The Men of Cajamarca\" has both individual biographies of those who shared in the treasure, as well as a thorough analysis of the general social patterns of those conquerors. Both \"Spanish Peru\" and \"The Men of Cajamarca\" have been published in Spanish translation. \n\nHe began to do research on colonial Mexico while at University of Texas, looking both at the socioeconomic patterns there and began learning Nahuatl. Fruits of these new interests were the publication of the anthology \"Provinces of Early Mexico: Variants of Spanish American Regional Evolution\" (edited with Ida Altman) and \"Nahuatl in the Middle Years: Language Contact Phenomena in Texts of the Colonial Period\" (with linguist Frances Karttunen). \n\nHe moved to University of California, Los Angeles, where he spent the bulk of his teaching career 1972-1994, retiring early and continuing to collaborate with colleagues on research projects and mentor graduate students working on historical sources in the Nahuatl language and the colonial-era Nahua people. \n\nAmong his many graduate students in colonial Spanish American social history and the philology of Mesoamerican indigenous languages, who earned doctorates under his mentorship are S.L.(Sarah) Cline, Kimberly Gauderman, Robert Haskett, Rebecca Horn, John E. Kicza, Leslie K. Lewis, Doris Namala, Leslie Offutt, Matthew Restall, Susan Schroeder, Lisa Sousa, Kevin Terraciano, John Tutino, John Super, and Stephanie Wood.\n\nHe was a major contributor to a field of ethnohistory built on the study of indigenous-language sources from colonial Mexico, which he called New Philology. He collaborated with colonial Brazilianist Stuart B. Schwartz in writing \"Early Spanish America\" (1983), which is a foundational text for graduate students studying colonial Latin America. He was the series editor for the Nahuatl Studies Series, initially based at the UCLA Latin American Center and then jointly with Stanford University Press. Lockhart was honored by the Conference on Latin American History Distinguished Service Award in 2004.\n\nHe died on 17 January 2014 at the age of 80.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "620970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=620970", "title": "Kaija Saariaho", "text": "Kaija Saariaho\n\nKaija Anneli Saariaho (; née \"Laakkonen\", born 14 October 1952) is a Finnish composer based in Paris, France.\n\nSaariaho studied composition in Helsinki, Freiburg, and Paris, where she has lived since 1982. Her research at the Institute for Research and Coordination Acoustic (IRCAM) marked a turning point in her music away from strict serialism towards spectralism. Her characteristically rich, polyphonic textures are often created by combining live music and electronics.\n\nDuring the course of her career, Saariaho has received commissions from the Lincoln Center for the Kronos Quartet and from IRCAM for the Ensemble Intercontemporain, the BBC, the New York Philharmonic, the Salzburg Music Festival, the Théâtre du Châtelet in Paris, and the Finnish National Opera, among others.\n\nSaariaho was born in Helsinki, Finland. She studied at the Sibelius Academy under Paavo Heininen. After attending the Darmstadt Summer Courses, she moved to Germany to study at the Hochschule für Musik Freiburg under Brian Ferneyhough and Klaus Huber. She found her teachers' emphasis on strict serialism and mathematical structures stifling, saying in an interview:\n\nIn 1980, Saariaho went to the Darmstadt Summer Courses and attended a concert of the French spectralists Tristan Murail and Gerard Grisey. Hearing spectral music for the first time marked a profound shift in Saariaho's artistic direction. These experiences guided her decision to attend courses in computer music that were being given by IRCAM, the computer music research institute in Paris, by David Wessel, Jean-Baptiste Barrière, and Marc Battier.\n\nIn 1982, she began work at IRCAM researching computer analyses of the sound-spectrum of individual notes produced by different instruments. She developed techniques for computer-assisted composition, experimented with \"musique concrète\", and wrote her first pieces combining live performance with electronics. She also composed new works using IRCAM's CHANT synthesiser. Each of her Jardin Secret trilogy was created with the use of computer programs. \"Jardin secret I\" (1985), \"Jardin secret II\" (1986), and \"Nymphea (Jardin secret III)\" (1987). Her works with electronics were developed in collaboration with Jean-Baptiste Barrière, a composer, multimedia artist, and computer scientist who directed the IRCAM's department of musical research from 1984 to 1987. Saariaho and Barrière married in 1982. They have two children.\n\nIn Paris, Saariaho developed an emphasis on slow transformations of dense masses of sound. Her first tape piece, \"Vers Le Blanc\" from 1982, and her orchestral and tape work, \"Verblendungen\", are both constructed from a single transition: in \"Vers Le Blanc\" the transition is from one pitch cluster to another, while in \"Verblendungen\", it is from loud to quiet. \"Verblendungen\" also uses a pair of visual ideas as its basis: a brush stroke which starts as a dense mark on the page and thins out into individual strands, and the word \"verblendungen\" itself, which means \"dazzlements\".\n\nHer work in the 1980s and 1990s was marked by an emphasis on timbre and the use of electronics alongside traditional instruments. \"Nymphéa (Jardin secret III)\" (1987), for example, is for string quartet and live electronics and contains an additional vocal element: the musicians whisper the words of an Arseny Tarkovsky poem, \"Now Summer is Gone\". In writing \"Nymphea\", Saariaho used a fractal generator to create material. Writing about the compositional process, Saariaho said:\n\nSaariaho has often talked about having a kind of synaesthesia, one that involves all of the senses, saying:\n\nAnother example is \"Six Japanese Gardens\" (1994), a percussion piece accompanied by a prerecorded electronic layer of the Japanese nature, traditional instruments, and chanting of Buddhist monks. During her visit to Tokyo in 1993, she expanded her original percussion conception into a semi-indeterminate piece. It consists of six movements that each represent a garden composed of traditional Japanese architecture, by which she was inspired rhythmically. Especially in movement IV and V, she explored many possibilities of complex polyrhythm in liberated instrumentation. She said:\n\nIn her book on Saariaho, musicologist Pirkko Moisala writes about the indeterminate nature of this composition:\n\nOn 1 December 2016, the Metropolitan Opera gave its first performance of \"L'Amour de loin\", the first opera by a female composer to be staged by the company since 1903, and the second opera by a female composer ever to be presented at the Metropolitan Opera. The subsequent transmission of the opera to cinema on 10 December 2016 as part of the Metropolitan Opera Live in HD series marked the first opera by a female composer, and the first opera conducted by a female conductor (Susanna Mälkki), in the series.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51538051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51538051", "title": "Killamery High Cross", "text": "Killamery High Cross\n\nKillamery Cross is a 9th-century high cross and National Monument in Killamery, County Kilkenny, Ireland. It is located in the north of Killamery graveyard.\n\nA monastery was established at Killamery by St Gobhan, a disciple of Saint Fursey, in AD 632. The Killamery High cross is part of the western Ossory group of crosses, used as a model for many of the small high crosses sold across the world as an Irish symbol.\n\nLocals formerly touched the cross's capstone to cure headaches.\n\nThe cross stands high. It is richly sculptured on the shaft with marigold flowers carved on it. There is a boss in the middle of the wheel-head that is surrounded by interlacing snakes and, above the boss, an open-mouthed dragon, giving it the name of the Snake-Dragon Cross. \n\nThe western face has a sun swastika at the centre and also depicts Adam and Eve, a stag hunt and a chariot procession. On top of the cross is a gabled cap-stone. Noah and John the Baptist are depicted. On the base an inscription reads , \"a prayer for Máel Sechnaill\", who was high king of Ireland in 846–862.\n\nThere is also a cross-slab of an earlier date the inscription , \"Pray for the soul of Áedáin\". Two bullaun stones can also be seen. There is also a holy well, St Goban's Well.\n"}
{"id": "49510024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49510024", "title": "Krishnamurti Foundation", "text": "Krishnamurti Foundation\n\nThe Krishnamurti Foundation is not a religious organisation nor does it have any spiritual authority.\n\nJiddu Krishnamurti (1895–1986), whose life and teachings spanned the greater part of the 20th century, is regarded by many as one who has had the most profound impact on human consciousness in modern times. The foundation provides a service to those who may be interested in pursuing an understanding of the teachings in their own lives. The foundations maintain an extensive archive of Krishnamurti's original works in the form of hand-written material, books, transcripts and audio and video tapes of hundreds of talks and discussions, meetings and conversations. There is also a collection of Krishnamurti's letters, photographs and reference material about him, his life, and his works.\n\nThe foundations are also actively engaged in the publication of this material in various forms. Over 60 books are in print and more are in preparation. About 300 videotapes and 400 audio cassettes are available, along with an extensive printed Index. etc. An increasing amount of this material is being translated. Over 30 languages are available including all major European and most Indian languages as well as Japanese, Cantonese, Mandarin, Russian, Korean and Hebrew.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17652278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17652278", "title": "Laboratoire de Phonétique et Phonologie", "text": "Laboratoire de Phonétique et Phonologie\n\nThe Laboratoire de Phonétique et Phonologie (LPP) is a CNRS laboratory affiliated with the in Paris, France. Its director is currently Pierre Hallé (formerly Jacqueline Vaissière and Annie Rialland). The LPP is a Mixed Research Unit (UMR 7018) with more than 40 members including 7 researchers, 12 research professors, 3 engineers and more than 30 doctoral and post-doctoral students. It is specialized in teaching and research in experimental phonetics and in phonology, offering graduate-level courses leading to a doctoral degree. One of its central research themes is the development of an integrated approach to phonetics and phonology.\n\nIts principal research areas have included:\n\n\nThe laboratory is located at l'Institut de Phonétique de Paris on 19 rue des Bernardins. Research in clinical phonetics is conducted at the Service d'Oto-Rhino-Laryngologie (ORL) of the Hôpital Européen Georges-Pompidou (HEGP), Paris. In 2008 the CNRS gave the Laboratoire de Phonétique et Phonologie the task of creating a technological platform to study normal and pathological speech. \n\nThis platform includes: \n\n"}
{"id": "5675693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5675693", "title": "Levi Rock Shelter", "text": "Levi Rock Shelter\n\nThe Levi Rock Shelter, named for former property owner Malcolm Levi, is an archeological site west of Austin, Texas where Paleo-Indian Native American artifacts dating back 10,000 years or more have been discovered.\n\nLocated along Lick Creek, the site was discovered in the mid-1950s and is believed to be the 7th-oldest paleolithic site in the United States. Many artifacts have been uncovered there, including Clovis points, carved bone cylinders, scrapers, awls, needles, punches, and incised and painted pebbles. Many are now in the care of the University of Texas.\n\nThe site, and its adjoining creek, are believed by local activists to be threatened by nearby development. The shelter was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1971.\n"}
{"id": "37073812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37073812", "title": "List of history awards", "text": "List of history awards\n\nThis is a list of notable awards given to persons, group of persons or institutions for their contribution to the study of history.\n"}
{"id": "4219632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4219632", "title": "Mahamuni Buddha Temple", "text": "Mahamuni Buddha Temple\n\nThe Mahamuni Buddha Temple (, ; also called the Mahamuni Pagoda) is a Buddhist temple and major pilgrimage site, located southwest of Mandalay, Myanmar (Burma) (Myanmar). The Mahamuni Buddha image (literal meaning: The Great Sage) is deified in this temple, and originally came from Arakan. It is highly venerated in Burma and central to many people's lives, as it is seen as an expression of representing the Buddha's life.\n\nAncient tradition refers to only five likenesses of the Buddha, made during his lifetime; two were in India, two in paradise, and the fifth is the Mahamuni Buddha image in Myanmar. According to the legend, the Buddha visited the Dhanyawadi city of Arakan in 554 BC. King Sanda Thuriya requested that an image was cast of him. After casting the Great Image, the Buddha breathed upon it, and thereafter the image became the exact likeness of the Mahamuni.\n\nAccording to legend, the Gautama Buddha visited Dhanyawadi, the capital city of Arakan during his travels on a Proselytization mission to spread Buddhism. During the 26th anniversary of the King at the time, a devout Buddhist, the Buddha accompanied by Shin Ananda and 500 disciples landed at Salagiri mountain peak near Khaukrah town. The King of Arakan, along with his Chief Queen Sandra Mala (with her retinue of 1,600 ladies in waiting), and an entourage of ministers, generals and officials, paid homage to the Buddha. They were deeply moved by his teachings and upon his departure to Thawuthi (Sravasti), the King insisted that he leave his image for people to worship. For this purpose, the Buddha then sat under a Bodhi tree for a week of meditation. During this time Sakka (in Pāli, the ruler of the Trāyastriṃśa Heaven in Buddhist cosmology, supported by his assistant Vissakamma, moulded a lifelike image of the Buddha using ornaments donated by the king and his people. It is also said that Sakka and Vissakamma (or Vishvakarman) created a separate pavilion for the Buddha to live and enjoy during these seven days. After looking at his own lifelike image, believed at the time to have been his only true-likeness, Buddha was pleased and \"imbued the image with his spiritual essence\", or \"enlivened and consecrated\" the image, naming it \"Candasara\". He also stated that the image would last for five thousand years as his representative.\n\nHistorian Juliane Schober has very succinctly explained this legend and the cult worship that has evolved around the \"living\" double image of Mahamuni Buddha:\n\nAnother legend narrated in the Arakanese chronicle relates to the nine phenomena that occurred when the image was consecrated in the temple and continued to occur after the Buddha had departed. These nine phenomena were: holy water used for washing the image would not overflow the collecting vessels; the water from the tank that was used for washing the Buddha's head would retain its quality throughout the year; six coloured rays appeared when the devotees worshipped the image in the evenings; the rays faded in the presence of non-believers; the space in the temple would automatically accommodate any number of devotees; the leaves of trees would tilt in the direction of the Buddha image; birds would not fly over the temple; and the stone guardians at the entrance would sense the presence of evil doers and prevent them from entering the temple.\nAnother legend narrated is linked to the six Khmer bronze statues (three lions–with heads substituted later in Burmese style, a three-headed elephant known as Airavata, and two warriors in the form of Shiva), which are installed in the temple in the northern end of the courtyard. These statues were originally at the Angkor Wat temple complex in Cambodia. Devotees believe that the statues have healing qualities to rub a particular part of the body against the statues to cure themselves of various ailments and diseases.\n\nIn the ancient history of Arakan, King Anawratha of Pagan (r. 1044–1077) attempted to move the image to Pagan, without success. In 1784, the Burmese under the military leadership of Crown Prince Thado Minsaw of Konbaung dynasty conquered the Kingdom of Mrauk U. The religious relics of the kingdom, including the Mahamuni Buddha image, were confiscated and installed in the Mahamuni temple or Pagoda at Amarapura, on the outskirts of the old capital of Mandalay. As the Mahamuni image was too large to transport as a whole, it was cut into sections and later reassembled and housed in the new temple. Mandalay became the capital under King Mindon (r. 1853–1878). It was also the capital under his son Thibaw (r. 1878–1885) of the Konbaung Dynasty (1752–1885). When the British annexed Upper Burma in 1885 to prevent the French from dominating it, monarchic rule ended. However, veneration of the Mahamuni image has continued, and is visited and idolised by many pilgrims, mainly Rakhine, Mon and Burmans peoples.\n\nSeveral old bronze statues that line the courtyard of the temple have a long history as war loot. They were originally Khmer statues, found at Angkor Wat in Cambodia, and were taken to Ayutthaya in 1431 by the Siamese. In 1564, the Burmese king Bayinnaung conquered Ayutthaya and took thirty such statues to Bago (Pegu). In 1599, King Razagri of Mrauk U invaded Bago and brought the statues to Mrauk U. Finally, Thado Minsaw took them to Amarapura in 1785. According to local belief, many more of these statues were brought from Arakan. However, King Thibaw melted many of them to cast cannons for fortification of his palace. Of the thirty statues Bayinnaung brought from Siam, only six remain today, and are displayed in the temple complex. They are a major attraction because of their purported healing qualities.\n\nThe Mahamnuni image and its precincts suffered damage from fires in 1879 and 1884. In the fire that broke out during the reign of King Thibaw, the seven-tiered spire on the brick temple, devotional halls, causeways and others were burnt down, although the Great Image itself was saved. Gold recovered after the fire was made into a robe that currently adorns the image. In 1887, Minister Kinwun Mingyi U Kaung took charge of the site and in 1896 constructed the present temple around the original shrine built by King Bodawpaya.\n\nIn 1996, the military rulers in Burma undertook renovation work on the Mahamuni Pagoda. During this period, the Mahamuni Buddha image was damaged in 1997 when a hole appeared in the belly of the Great Image. It was believed that thieves had drilled the hole in an attempt to steal jewels believed to be secreted within the image. It was reported that a military officer had requested to open the temple in the night, resulting in a meeting of all the senior monks from major monasteries in the area to discuss the matter. Whilst the meeting was in progress, attention was diverted to a purported rape incident committed by a Muslim man on a Buddhist girl. A major riot broke out but it turned out afterward that the Buddhist girl had not been raped at all. It was a coverup to divert attention away from the Buddha so it could be repaired. However, the mystery remains as to whether any jewellery did exist and was actually removed from the Great Image at all.\n\nThe Mahamuni Temple or Pagoda is a complex of structures located along a road from Mandalay leading to the southwest. It was originally located on A brick paved road which was constructed from the Royal Palace of King Bodawpaya to the eastern gate of the temple, although only remnants of this road can still be seen. A major teaching monastery of some 400 monks of the Thudhamma Nikaya (order), is one among the many monasteries which are adjacent to the Pagoda. The temple has a central shrine and is framed by an extensive grass lawn. The arcades leading to the main shrine have many kiosks, selling religious paraphernalia such as incense, candles, rosaries, flowers, robes, sandals etc., and various restaurants and tea shops. The sanctum sanctorum, where the large Mahamuni image is deified, is a small chamber and has a roof covering made up of seven \"pyatthat\" meaning tiered roofs (derivative of the Sanskrit word \"prasada\"). The ceiling has an ornate mosaic covering. The arcades are supported by 252 gilded and carved columns adorned with fine frescoes.\n\nThe Mahamuni Buddha image is housed in a small chamber, seated on a throne in a divine posture known as the \"Bhumisparsa Mudra\". This posture or mudra symbolises Buddha's vanquishing of Mara). The legs are crossed with feet turned inwards, and the right hand touches the ground ritualistically, as a witness of his past deeds. The image is cast in bronze and weighs 6.5 tonnes and is erected on a high pedestal and reaches a height of . Its shoulders measure and its waist measures . It is draped in royal costumes with \"Brahmanic cords (\"salwe\") and regalia crossing his chest\". The image is crowned, bejewelled with diamonds, rubies and sapphires. The left hand appears imprecise, unusually large, and is seen resting in the lap with an upturned palm.\n\nGold leaves are regularly applied to the face of the Mahamuni Buddha by male devotees. Consequent to the frequent application of gold leaves, the coating of gold (thickness ) has given a shapeless contour to the Mahamuni image. However, it is also noted that the right hand, crown and other iconographic characteristics of royalty are free of gold leaf covering, which gives an impression that these were later additions to the original image of the Mahamuni. In 1884, when the pagoda was burnt down, of gold was recovered from the site, which represents the continued historical veneration and perpetuation of the cult of Mahamuni.\n\nA large number of 'inscription stones' collected by King Bodawpaya are seen in a long gallery in the southeastern corner of the temple courtyard. These inscriptions, some of which are made from gilded marble and sandstone, have been collected from many regions of the country. There is also a large water tank in the southeast direction of the temple where fish and turtles are fed with rice cakes by the large number of pilgrims who visit the temple every day. Adjacent to the Buddha temple is the Mahamuni Museum, which contains displays of Buddhism throughout Asia.\n\nOn February 17, 1988, the present Ven Sayadaw Buddhanta Panya Vamsa of Htilin Monastery and Pitaka Kyaung initiated the ritual of daily face washing of the deity at dawn. This ritual commences every morning at 4 am or 4:30 am when monks wash the face and brush the teeth of the Buddha image. It is an elaborate ritual performed for over an hour by a senior monk dressed in monastic attire, assisted by several lay helpers, dressed in white and wearing formal headdress. As soon as the drums are struck, the senior monk residing in the adjoining monastery enters the sanctum and starts the formal face washing ritual with a succession of fresh towels, offered by devotees. He then performs the act of cleaning the Mahamuni's teeth with a large brush followed by one more sequence of cleaning with fresh towels. After this, sandalwood paste is applied to the image and it is again cleaned with towels and finally sprinkled with scented water. After the ceremony is completed, the used towels are returned to the devotees who keep these towels with reverence in their home shrines.\n\nOn special occasions, such as Uposatha day, an orange stole is placed around its shoulders by the presiding monk and is fanned. A major congregation of devotees witness the rituals; some men sit in the front enclosure while others including women and children sit in the middle and rear end of the foyer. Devotees offer food and other items brought by them on a tray to the deity and chant prayers while the rituals are being performed. During the winter season, the image is covered by a cloak of the monastic order.\n\nDuring the reign of Burmese monarchs, offerings were made daily to the Great Image in a formal way. Food and other offerings, sheltered by a Royal white umbrella, were taken in a procession from the palace, escorted by a Minister, as an honour due to a sovereign head of the state.\n\nA major annual pagoda festival known as the 'Mahamuni Paya Pwe' ('pwe' meaning \"festival\") is held in early February, at the end of the Buddhist Lent to celebrate the history of the pagoda. During this festival, aside from the daily rituals, the \"Patthana\" from a \"Book of Conditional Relations\" is recited. This book is a philosophical text which Buddha recounted to his mother in a sermon in \"Tavatimsa\" heaven and is a sacred scripture in the Pali language. The Pattana recitation is a special feature, which continues for several days. Monks recite from the scriptures, in groups of two or three. The festivities also include various forms of entertainment programmes such as dance, music, theatre etc., and there is also a social event, allowing families and friends gather to greet each other. Given that large crowds of pilgrims are attracted during the festive season, guards are posted near the Great Image and video cameras are placed in many parts of the temple precincts to protect it.\n\n"}
{"id": "284561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284561", "title": "Megasthenes", "text": "Megasthenes\n\nMegasthenes ( ; , c. 350 – c. 290 BC) was an ancient Greek historian, diplomat and Indian ethnographer and explorer in the Hellenistic period. He described India in his book \"Indika\", which is now lost, but has been partially reconstructed from the writings of the later authors.\n\nMegasthenes was born in Asia Minor and became an ambassador of Seleucus I Nicator of the Seleucid dynasty to Chandragupta Maurya in Pataliputra, India. However, the exact date of his embassy is uncertain. Scholars such as Kaushik Roy place him in the Maurya court between 302 and 298 BCE, prior to Chandragupta's voluntary death in 297. Other Greek envoys to the Indian court are known after Megasthenes: Deimachus as ambassador to Bindusara, and Dionysius, as ambassador to Ashoka.\n\nMegasthenes was a Greek ambassador of Seleucus I Nicator in the court of Chandragupta Maurya. Arrian explains that Megasthenes lived in Arachosia, with the satrap Sibyrtius, from where he visited India:\nMegasthenes lived with Sibyrtius, satrap of Arachosia, and often speaks of his visiting Sandracottus, the king of the Indians.\" Arrian, \"Anabasis Alexandri\" \nWe have more definite information regarding the parts of India Megasthenes visited. He entered the subcontinent through the district of the Pentapotamia (\"The five rivers\", modern day Punjab region), providing a full account of the rivers found there (thought to be the five affluents of the Indus that form the Punjab region), and proceeded from there by the royal road to Pataliputra. There are accounts of Megasthenes having visited Madurai, in Tamil Nadu, but he appears not to have visited any other parts of India.\n\nIndika (Greek: Ἰνδικά; Latin: Indica) is an account of Mauryan India by Megasthenes. The original book is now lost, but its fragments have survived in later Greek and Latin works. The earliest of these works are those by Diodorus Siculus, Strabo (\"Geographica\"), Pliny, and Arrian (\"Indica\").\n\nMegasthenes' \"Indica\" can be reconstructed using the portions preserved by later writers as direct quotations or paraphrase. The parts that belonged to the original text can be identified from the later works based on similar content, vocabulary and phrasing, even when the content has not been explicitly attributed to Megasthenes. Felix Jacoby's \"Fragmente der griechischen Historiker\" contains 36 pages of content traced to Megasthenes.\n\nSchwanbeck's Fragment XXVII includes four paragraphs from Strabo, and Schwanbeck attributes these entire paragraphs to Megasthenes. However, Strabo cites Megasthenes as his source only for three isolated statements in three different paragraphs. It is likely that Strabo sourced the rest of the text from sources other than Megasthenes: that's why he attributes only three statements specifically to Megasthenes.\n\nAnother example is the earliest confirmed description of Gangaridai, which appears in the writings of Diodorus. McCrindle believed that Diodorus' source for this description was the now-lost book of Megasthenes. However, according to A. B. Bosworth (1996), Diodorus obtained this information from Hieronymus of Cardia: Diodorus described Ganges as 30 stadia wide; it is well-attested by other sources that Megasthenes described the median or minimum width of Ganges as 100 stadia.\n\nAccording to the text reconstructed by J. W. McCrindle, Megasthenes' \"Indica\" describes India as follows:\n\nIndia is a quadrilateral-shaped country, bounded by the ocean on the southern and the eastern side. The Indus river forms the western and the north-western boundary of the country, as far as the ocean. India's northern border reaches the extremities of Tauros. From Ariana to the Eastern Sea, it is bound by mountains that are called Kaukasos by the Macedonians. \n\nAt the southern tip of India, the gnomon of the sundial often casts no shadow, and the Ursa Major is invisible at night. In the remotest parts, the shadows fall southward, and even Arcturus is not visible.\n\nIndia has many large and navigable rivers, which arise in the mountains on its northern border. Many merge into Ganges, which is 30 stadia wide at its source, and runs from north to south. The Ganges empties into the ocean that forms the eastern boundary of Gangaridai. Other nations feared Gangaridai's huge force of the biggest elephants, and therefore, Gangaridai had never been conquered by any foreign king. \n\nIndus also runs from north to south, and has several navigable tributaries. In addition, there are a large number of other rivers, supplying abundant water for agriculture. According to the native philosophers and natural scientists, the reason for this is that the bordering countries are more elevated than India, so their waters run down to India, resulting in such a large number of rivers.\n\nIn the primitive times, the Indians lived on fruits and wore clothes made of animal skin, just like the Greeks. The most learned Indian scholars say that Dionysus invaded India, and taught Indians several things including how to grow plants, make wine and worship. He founded several large cities, introduced laws and established courts. For this reason, he was regarded as a deity by the Indians. He ruled entire India for 52 years, before dying of old age. His descendants ruled India for several generations, before being dethroned and replaced by democratic city-states.\n\nThe Indians who inhabit the hill country also claim that Herakles was one of them. Like the Greeks, they characterize him with the club and the lion's skin. According to them, Herakles was a powerful man who subjugated evil beasts. He had several sons and one daughter, who became rulers in different parts of his dominion. He founded several cities, the greatest of which was Palibothra (Pataliputra). Herakles built several places in this city, fortified it with water-filled trenches and settled a number of people in the city. His descendants ruled India for several generations, but never launched an expedition beyond India. After several years, the royal rule was replaced by democratic city states, although there existed a few kings when Alexander invaded India.\n\nIndia has several mountains with fruit trees of every kind. There are a large number of animal species in India. The Indian elephants are far stronger than the Libyan elephants, because of the abundance of food on the Indian soil. The elephants are domesticated in large numbers, and trained for war. The gestation period of the elephants ranges from 16 to 18 months, and the oldest of the elephants live up to 200 years.\n\nGold, silver, copper and iron are abundant on Indian soil. Tin and other metals are used for making a number of tools, weapons, ornaments, and other articles.\n\nIndia has very fertile plains, and irrigation is practised widely. The main crops include rice, millet, a crop called \"bosporum\", other cereals, pulses and other food plants. There are two crop cycles per year, since rain falls in both summer and winter. At the time of summer solstice, rice, millet, \"bosporum\" and sesamum are sown. During winter, wheat is sown.\n\nBecause of its large size, India is inhabited by many diverse races, all of which are indigenous. India has no foreign colony, and Indians have not established any colonies outside India. The Indians are of above average stature, because of abundant food, fine water and pure air. They are well-skilled in art.\n\nA law, prescribed by ancient Indian philosophers, bans slavery. The law treats everyone equally, but allows the property to be unevenly distributed.\n\nThe population of India is divided into 7 endogamous and hereditary castes:\n\n\nThe foreigners are treated well. Special officers are appointed to ensure that no foreigner is harmed, and judges hand out harsh punishment to those who take unfair advantage of the foreigners. Sick foreigners are attended by physicians and taken care of. Foreigners who die in India are buried, and their property is delivered to their relatives.\n\nLater writers such as Arrian, Strabo, Diodorus, and Pliny refer to \"Indika\" in their works. Of these writers, Arrian speaks most highly of Megasthenes, while Strabo and Pliny treat him with less respect.\n\nThe first century Greek writer Strabo called both Megasthenes and his succeeding ambassador Deimachus liars, and stated that \"no faith whatever\" could be placed in their writings. The \"Indika\" itself contained numerous fantastical stories of people with backwards feet, ears large enough to sleep in, no mouths, or other strange features. Strabo directly contradicted these descriptions, assuring his readers that Megasthenes' stories, along with his recounting of India’s founding by Hercules and Dionysus, were mythical with little to no basis in reality.\n\nAccording to Paul J. Kosmin, \"Indica\" depicts contemporary India as an unconquerable territory, in order to justify Seleucus's retreat from India. Megasthenes tries to argue that Dionysus was able to conquer India, because before his invasion, India was a primitive rural society. Dionysus' urbanization of India makes India a powerful, impregnable nation. The later ruler — the Indian Herakles — is presented as a native of India, despite similarities with the Greek Heracles. This, according to Kosmin, is because now India is shown as unconquerable. Megasthenes emphasizes that no foreign army had been able to conquer India (since Dionysus) and Indians had not invaded a foreign country either. This representation of India as an isolated, invincible country is an attempt to vindicate Seleucus' peace treaty with the Indian emperor.\n\nMegasthenes states that there were no slaves in India, but the \"Arthashastra\" attests to the existence of slavery in contemporary India; Strabo also counters Megasthenes's claim based on a report from Onesicritus. Historian Shireen Moosvi theorizes that slaves were outcastes, and were not considered members of the society at all. According to historian Romila Thapar, the lack of sharp distinction between slaves and others in the Indian society (unlike the Greek society) may have confused Megasthenes: Indians did not use large-scale slavery as a means of production, and slaves in India could buy back their freedom or be released by their master.\n\nMegasthenes mentions seven castes in India, while the Indian texts mention only four social classes (varnas). According to Thapar, Megasthenes' categorization appears to be based on economic divisions rather than the social divisions; this is understandable because the varnas originated as economic divisions. Thapar also speculates that he wrote his account some years after his visit to India, and at this time, he \"arrived at the number seven, forgetting the facts as given to him\". Alternatively, it is possible that the later authors misquoted him, trying to find similarities with the Egyptian society, which according to Herodotus, was divided into seven social classes.\n\nMegasthenes' \"Indica\", along with Ctesias' book of the same name, is among the earliest well-known Western accounts of India and he is regarded as one of the founders of the study of Indian history in the West. He is also the first foreign Ambassador to be mentioned in Indian history.\n\nMegasthenes also comments on the presence of pre-Socratic views among the Brahmans and Jews. Five centuries later Clement of Alexandria, in his Stromateis, may have misunderstood Megasthenes to be responding to claims of Greek primacy by admitting Greek views of \"physics\" were preceded by those of Jews and Indians. Megasthenes, like Numenius of Apamea, was simply comparing the ideas of the different ancient cultures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6424364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6424364", "title": "Outline of games", "text": "Outline of games\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to games and gaming:\n\nGames – structured or semi-structured activities, usually undertaken for enjoyment. They are usually fun activities that can be educational or purely just for fun. The term \"game\" is also used to describe simulation of various activities e.g., for the purposes of training, analysis or prediction, etc., see \"Game (simulation)\". Games are a universal part of the human experience, for all cultures, genders and ages. Key components of games are goals, rules, challenge, and interactivity. Games generally involve mental or physical stimulation, and sometimes both. Many games help develop practical skills, serve as a form of exercise, or otherwise perform an educational, simulational or psychological role.\n\nAspects of game play include:\n\n\n\n\nGame development\n\nGame theory\n\n"}
{"id": "1698986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1698986", "title": "Pancho Vladigerov", "text": "Pancho Vladigerov\n\nPancho Haralanov Vladigerov (or Wladigeroff, or Wladigerow, or Vladiguerov, or Vladigueroff; ; 13 March 18998 September 1978) was a Bulgarian composer, pedagogue, and pianist.\n\nVladigerov is arguably the most influential Bulgarian composer of all time. He was one of the first to successfully combine idioms of Bulgarian folk music and the classical music. Part of the so-called \"Second Generation Bulgarian Composers\", he was among the founding members of the Bulgarian Contemporary Music Society (1933), which later became the Union of Bulgarian Composers. Vladigerov marked the beginning of a number of genres in Bulgarian music, including the violin sonata and the piano trio. He was also a very respected pedagogue; his students include practically all notable Bulgarian composers of the next generation, such as Alexander Raichev, Alexander Yossifov, Stefan Remenkov, and many others, as well as the pianist Alexis Weissenberg.\n\nVladigerov was born in Zürich, Switzerland, but lived in Shumen, Bulgaria. His mother Dr. Eliza Pasternak was a Russian Jew. She is a relative of the famous writer Boris Pasternak, who was first cousins with Vladigerov. His father Dr. Haralan Vladigerov was a Bulgarian lawyer and a politician. Pancho Vladigerov played the piano and composed from an early age. In 1910, two years after his father's early death, Vladigerov and the rest of his family moved to Sofia, where Pancho started studying composition with Dobri Hristov, the most distinguished Bulgarian composer of his generation.\n\nPancho's maternal grandfather, Leon Pasternak, a Russian Jew who left Odessa and settled in Zurich a few years before Pancho's birth, was a very influential figure in Pancho's musical development and later success. The grandfather, a mathematician by profession, champion chess player, and an amateur musician and composer, used to play the violin with Pancho and his twin brother. Based on a Jewish tune his grandfather taught him, Vladigerov composed in 1950 his great symphony, the \"Jewish Poem\", Opus 47. This symphony received in 1952 the highest honor given by the Bulgarian Government to an artist, the Dimitrov Prize, and earned him the admiration of his fellow musicians:\n\n\"A work like this is written only once in a hundred years\", Dmitri Shostakovich exclaimed.\n\nIn 1912 Vladigerov's mother managed to obtain a governmental scholarship for her children to study in Berlin, where Pancho and his twin brother, the violinist Luben Vladigerov, were enrolled at the Staatliche Akademische Hochschule für Musik (now part of the Berlin University of the Arts), which was under the auspices of the Academy of Arts. Pancho Vladigerov studied music theory and composition with Paul Juon and piano with Karl Heinrich Barth. In 1920 he graduated from the Academy after having studied piano also with Leonid Kreutzer, composition with Friedrich Gernsheim and Georg Schumann. He twice won the Mendelssohn Prize of the Academy (in 1918 and 1920).\n\nAfter his graduation Vladigerov became music director at Deutsches Theater in Berlin and worked with the famous theatre director Max Reinhardt. In 1932, after much hesitation, he decided to return to Sofia, where he was appointed professor in Piano, Chamber Music and Composition at the State Academy of Music, which is now named after him.\n\nVladigerov composed in a variety of genres including an opera (\"Tsar Kaloyan\", to a libretto by Nikolai Liliev and Fani Popova-Mutafova), ballet, symphonic music, five piano concertos, two violin concertos, chamber music including string quartet, trio (violin, cello and piano), works and transcriptions for violin and piano and numerous opuses for solo piano, 38 transcriptions of instrumental pieces for instrument and piano, 13 late transcriptions of his earlier works for two pianos, fifty folksong concert arrangements for voice and piano/orchestra, 20 songs for voice and piano, ten choral songs with piano/orchestra, incidental music for the performances of the Deutsches Theater in Berlin, the Theater in der Josefstadt in Vienna, and the National Theatre in Sofia.\n\nVladigerov gained considerable fame in Europe in the 1920s when many of his pieces were published by Universal Edition in Vienna and released on LPs by the German recording company Deutsche Grammophon before being performed throughout Europe and the USA. As pianist and composer he toured most of the European countries performing mainly his own works. In 1969 he was awarded the Herder Prize by the University of Vienna. The Bulgarian recording company Balkanton released an edition of his stage and symphony music in four sets of seven LPs each; however, only a very small portion of his works is currently available on CD.\n\nVladigerov's music has been admired by such diverse personalities as Richard Strauss, Dmitri Shostakovich, and Aram Khachaturian. It has been performed by artists such as Alexis Weissenberg, David Oistrakh, Emil Gilels, Ivan Drenikov and, most recently, Marc-André Hamelin; however, he still remains a largely unknown name except in his home country. His solo piano music has been performed in concert several times in the UK recently by Bulgarian-born pianist Valentina Seferinova, who continues to champion his music.\n\nVladigerov's most performed and emblematic work is unquestionably \"Vardar Rhapsody\", also known as \"Bulgarian Rhapsody\". Originally written for violin and piano, it was later orchestrated and arranged for various instruments. A fiery patriotic work, it has become, in the words of an admiring critic \"the Bulgarian equivalent of Chopin's Polonaise in A Major\".\n\nPancho Vladigerov died in 1978 in Sofia. His house at No. 10, Yakubitsa, has been transformed into a museum. His son Alexander Vladigerov (1933–1993) and grandchildren Pancho Vladigerov Jr., Alexander Wladigeroff, and Konstantin Wladigeroff have also become respected musicians.\n\nAn international music competition held in Shumen since 1986 is named after Vladigerov. In the autumn of 2006 Pancho Vladigerov Jr. founded The Intellectual Legacy of Pancho Vladigerov Foundation. Its main aim is to preserve, protect and popularise Pancho Vladigerov's tangible and intangible heritage.\n\nThe National Academy of Music, \"Prof. Pancho Vladigerov,\" located in Sofia, Bulgaria, is named for Vladigerov.\n\nVladigerov Passage in Antarctica is named after Pancho Vladigerov.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19612150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19612150", "title": "Patma-Banasirakan Handes", "text": "Patma-Banasirakan Handes\n\nPatma-Banasirakan Handes ( (ՊԲՀ, PBH); , \"Istoriko-Filologicheskii Zhurnal\"; \"Historical-Philological Journal\") is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by the Armenian National Academy of Sciences. It covers research on Armenian history (particularly material related to the ancient and medieval periods), art history, literature, and linguistics. The journal also publishes discussions and debates, book reviews and also has special sections devoted to science news and Armenian Diasporan affairs. It occasionally publishes obituaries and biographies and commemorates the lives of noted scholars involved in Armenian studies. \n\nIt was established in 1958 by academician Mkrtich G. Nersisyan, who was the journal's first editor-in-chief until his death in 1999. According to Razmik Panossian \"it became a trend-setting journal for historians, linguists, philologists and for scholars in the humanities in general. This influential journal brought together all branches of Armenian studies, systematically consolidating research on culture, ancient law and philosophy, architecture, language and history.\" \nMost articles that were published in Armenian during the Soviet era included a Russian abstract, while those articles published in Russian had an Armenian abstract. In recent years, following Armenia's independence in 1991, most articles have come to include English abstracts.\n\nThe journal's archives have recently undergone digitalization and articles can now be accessed from its official website. The current editor is Vardkes Mikayelyan. \n\n"}
{"id": "894729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=894729", "title": "Petrography", "text": "Petrography\n\nPetrography is a branch of petrology that focuses on detailed descriptions of rocks. Someone who studies petrography is called a petrographer. The mineral content and the textural relationships within the rock are described in detail. The classification of rocks is based on the information acquired during the petrographic analysis. Petrographic descriptions start with the field notes at the outcrop and include macroscopic description of hand specimens. However, the most important tool for the petrographer is the petrographic microscope. The detailed analysis of minerals by optical mineralogy in thin section and the micro-texture and structure are critical to understanding the origin of the rock. Electron microprobe analysis of individual grains as well as whole rock chemical analysis by atomic absorption, X-ray fluorescence, and laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy are used in a modern petrographic lab. Individual mineral grains from a rock sample may also be analyzed by X-ray diffraction when optical means are insufficient. Analysis of microscopic fluid inclusions within mineral grains with a heating stage on a petrographic microscope provides clues to the temperature and pressure conditions existent during the mineral formation.\n\nPetrography as a science began in 1828 when Scottish physicist William Nicol invented the technique for producing polarized light by cutting a crystal of Iceland spar, a variety of calcite, into a special prism which became known as the Nicol prism. The addition of two such prisms to the ordinary microscope converted the instrument into a polarizing, or petrographic microscope. Using transmitted light and Nicol prisms, it was possible to determine the internal crystallographic character of very tiny mineral grains, greatly advancing the knowledge of a rock's constituents.\n\nDuring the 1840s, a development by Henry C. Sorby and others firmly laid the foundation of petrography. This was a technique to study very thin slices of rock. A slice of rock was affixed to a microscope slide and then ground so thin that light could be transmitted through mineral grains that otherwise appeared opaque. The position of adjoining grains was not disturbed, thus permitting analysis of rock texture. Thin section petrography became the standard method of rock study. Since textural details contribute greatly to knowledge of the sequence of crystallization of the various mineral constituents in a rock, petrography progressed into petrogenesis and ultimately into petrology.\n\nIt was in Europe, principally in Germany, that petrography advanced in the last half of the nineteenth century.\n\nThe macroscopic characters of rocks, those visible in hand-specimens without the aid of the microscope, are very varied and difficult to describe accurately and fully. The geologist in the field depends principally on them and on a few rough chemical and physical tests; and to the practical engineer, architect and quarry-master they are all-important. Although frequently insufficient in themselves to determine the true nature of a rock, they usually serve for a preliminary classification, and often give all the information needed.\n\nWith a small bottle of acid to test for carbonate of lime, a knife to ascertain the hardness of rocks and minerals, and a pocket lens to magnify their structure, the field geologist is rarely at a loss to what group a rock belongs. The fine grained species are often indeterminable in this way, and the minute mineral components of all rocks can usually be ascertained only by microscopic examination. But it is easy to see that a sandstone or grit consists of more or less rounded, water-worn sand grains and if it contains dull, weathered particles of feldspar, shining scales of mica or small crystals of calcite these also rarely escape observation. Shales and clay rocks generally are soft, fine grained, often laminated and not infrequently contain minute organisms or fragments of plants. Limestones are easily marked with a knife-blade, effervesce readily with weak cold acid and often contain entire or broken shells or other fossils. The crystalline nature of a granite or basalt is obvious at a glance, and while the former contains white or pink feldspar, clear vitreous quartz and glancing flakes of mica, the other shows yellow-green olivine, black augite, and gray stratiated plagioclase.\n\nOther simple tools include the blowpipe (to test the fusibility of detached crystals), the goniometer, the magnet, the magnifying glass and the specific gravity balance.\n\nWhen dealing with unfamiliar types or with rocks so fine grained that their component minerals cannot be determined with the aid of a hand lens, a microscope is used. Characteristics observed under the microscope include colour, colour variation under plane polarised light (pleochroism, produced by the lower Nicol prism, or more recently polarising films), fracture characteristics of the grains, refractive index (in comparison to the mounting adhesive, typically Canada balsam), and optical symmetry (birefringent or isotropic). \"In toto\", these characteristics are sufficient to identify the mineral, and often to quite tightly estimate its major element composition.\nThe process of identifying minerals under the microscope is fairly subtle, but also mechanistic - it would be possible to develop an identification key that would allow a computer to do it. The more difficult and skilful part of optical petrography is identifying the interrelationships between grains and relating them to features seen in hand specimen, at outcrop, or in mapping.\n\nSeparation of the ingredients of a crushed rock powder to obtain pure samples for analysis is a common approach. It may\nbe performed with a powerful, adjustable-strength electromagnet. A weak magnetic field attracts magnetite, then haematite and other iron ores. Silicates that contain iron follow in definite order—biotite, enstatite, augite, hornblende, garnet, and similar ferro-magnesian minerals are successively abstracted. Finally, only the colorless, non-magnetic compounds, such as muscovite, calcite, quartz, and feldspar remain. Chemical methods also are useful.\n\nA weak acid dissolves calcite from crushed limestone, leaving only dolomite, silicates, or quartz. Hydrofluoric acid attacks feldspar before quartz and, if used cautiously, dissolves these and any glassy material in a rock powder before it dissolves augite or hypersthene.\n\nMethods of separation by specific gravity have a still wider application. The simplest of these is levigation, which is extensively employed in mechanical analysis of soils and treatment of ores, but is not so successful with rocks, as their components do not, as a rule, differ greatly in specific gravity. Fluids are used that do not attack most rock-forming minerals, but have a high specific gravity. Solutions of potassium mercuric iodide (sp. gr. 3.196), cadmium borotungstate (sp. gr. 3.30), methylene iodide (sp. gr. 3.32), bromoform (sp. gr. 2.86), or acetylene bromide (sp. gr. 3.00) are the principal fluids employed. They may be diluted (with water, benzene, etc.) or concentrated by evaporation.\n\nIf the rock is granite consisting of biotite (sp. gr. 3.1), muscovite (sp. gr. 2.85), quartz (sp. gr. 2.65), oligoclase (sp. gr. 2.64), and orthoclase (sp. gr. 2.56), the crushed minerals float in methylene iodide. On gradual dilution with benzene they precipitate in the order above. Simple in theory, these methods are tedious in practice, especially as it is common for one rock-making mineral to enclose another. However, expert handling of fresh and suitable rocks yields excellent results.\n\nIn addition to naked-eye and microscopic investigation, chemical research methods are of great practical importance to the petrographer. Crushed and separated powders, obtained by the processes above, may be analyzed to determine chemical composition of minerals in the rock qualitatively or quantitatively. Chemical testing, and microscopic examination of minute\ngrains is an elegant and valuable means of discriminating between mineral components of fine-grained rocks.\n\nThus, the presence of apatite in rock-sections is established by covering a bare rock-section with ammonium molybdate solution. A turbid yellow precipitate forms over the crystals of the mineral in question (indicating the presence of phosphates). Many\nsilicates are insoluble in acids and cannot be tested in this way, but others are partly dissolved, leaving a film of gelatinous\nsilica that can be stained with coloring matters, such as the aniline dyes (nepheline, analcite, zeolites, etc.).\n\nComplete chemical analysis of rocks are also widely used and important, especially in describing new species. Rock analysis has of late years (largely under the influence of the chemical laboratory of the United States Geological Survey) reached a high pitch of refinement and complexity. As many as twenty or twenty-five components may be determined, but for practical purposes a knowledge of the relative proportions of silica, alumina, ferrous and ferric oxides, magnesia, lime, potash, soda and water carry us a long way in determining a rock's position in the conventional classifications.\n\nA chemical analysis is usually sufficient to indicate whether a rock is igneous or sedimentary, and in either case to accurately show what subdivision of these classes it\nbelongs to. In the case of metamorphic rocks it often establishes whether the original mass was a sediment or of volcanic origin.\n\nSpecific gravity of rocks is determined by use of a balance and pycnometer. It is greatest in rocks containing the most magnesia, iron, and heavy metal while least in rocks rich in alkalis, silica, and water.\nIt diminishes with weathering. Generally, the specific gravity of rocks with the same chemical composition is higher if highly crystalline and lower if wholly or partly vitreous. The specific gravity of the more common rocks range from about 2.5 to 3.2.\n\nArchaeologists use petrography to identify mineral components in pottery. This information ties the artifacts to geological areas where the raw materials for the pottery were obtained. In addition to clay, potters often used rock fragments, usually called \"temper\" or \"aplastics\", to modify the clay's properties. The geological information obtained from the pottery components provides insight into how potters selected and used local and non-local resources. Archaeologists are able to determine whether pottery found in a particular location was locally produced or traded from elsewhere. This kind of information, along with other evidence, can support conclusions about settlement patterns, group and individual mobility, social contacts, and trade networks. In addition, an understanding of how certain minerals are altered at specific temperatures can allow archaeological petrographers to infer aspects of the ceramic production process itself, such as minimum and maximum temperatures reached during the original firing of the pot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3422191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3422191", "title": "Platform mound", "text": "Platform mound\n\nA platform mound is any earthwork or mound intended to support a structure or activity.\n\nThe indigenous peoples of North America built substructure mounds for well over a thousand years starting in the Archaic period and continuing through the Woodland period. Many different archaeological cultures (Poverty Point culture, Troyville culture, Coles Creek culture, Plaquemine culture and Mississippian culture) of North Americas Eastern Woodlands are specifically well known for using platform mounds as a central aspect of their overarching religious practices and beliefs. These platform mounds are usually four-sided truncated pyramids, steeply sided, with steps built of wooden logs ascending one side of the earthworks. When European first arrived in North America, the peoples of the Mississippian culture were still using and building platform mounds. Documented uses for Mississippian platform mounds include semi-public chief's house platforms, public temple platforms, mortuary platforms, charnel house platforms, earth lodge/town house platforms, residence platforms, square ground and rotunda platforms, and dance platforms.\n\nMany of the mounds underwent multiple episodes of mound construction, with the mound becoming larger with each event. The site of a mound was usually a site with special significance, either a pre-existing mortuary site or civic structure. This site was then covered with a layer of basket-transported soil and clay known as mound fill and a new structure constructed on its summit. At periodic intervals averaged about twenty years these structures would be removed, possibly ritually destroyed as part of renewal ceremonies, and a new layer of fill added, along with a new structure on the now higher summit. Sometimes the surface of the mounds would get a several inches thick coat of brightly colored clay. These layers also incorporated layers of different kinds of clay, soil and sod, an elaborate engineering technique to forestall slumping of the mounds and to ensure their steep sides did not collapse. This pattern could be repeated many times during the life of a site. The large amounts of fill needed for the mounds left large holes in the landscape now known by archaeologists as \"borrow pits\". These pits were sometimes left to fill with water and stocked with fish.\n\nSome mounds were developed with separate levels (or terraces) and aprons, such as Emerald Mound, which is one large terrace with two smaller mounds on its summit; or Monks Mound, which has four separate levels and stands close to in height. Monks Mound had at least ten separate periods of mound construction over a 200-year period. Some of the terraces and aprons on the mound seem to have been added to stop slumping of the enormous mound.\n\nAlthough the mounds were primarily meant as substructure mounds for buildings or activities, sometimes burials did occur. Intrusive burials occurred when a grave was dug into a mound and the body or a bundle of defleshed, disarticulated bones was deposited into it. Mound C at Etowah has been found to have more than 100 intrusive burials into the final layer of the mound, with many grave goods such as Mississippian copper plates (Etowah plates), monolithic stone axes, ceremonial pottery and carved whelk shell gorgets. Also interred in this mound was a paired set of white marble Mississippian stone statues.\n\nA long-standing interpretation of Mississippian mounds comes from Vernon James Knight, who stated that the Mississippian platform mounds were one of the three \"sacra\", or objects of sacred display, of the Mississippian religion - also see Earth/fertility cult and Southeastern Ceremonial Complex. His logic is based on analogy to ethnographic and historic data on related Native American tribal groups in the Southeastern United States.\n\nKnight suggests a microcosmic ritual organization based around a \"native earth\" autochthony, agriculture, fertility, and purification scheme, in which mounds and the site layout replicate cosmology. Mound rebuilding episodes are construed as rituals of burial and renewal, while the four-sided construction acts to replicate the flat earth and the four quarters of the earth.\n\nThe use of platform mounds is documented elsewhere in the world, including: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17280766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17280766", "title": "Protestant views on Mary", "text": "Protestant views on Mary\n\nProtestant views on Mary include the theological positions of major Protestant representatives such as Martin Luther and John Calvin as well as some modern representatives. While it is difficult to generalize about the place of Mary, mother of Jesus in Protestantism given the great diversity of Protestant beliefs, some summary statements are attempted.\n\nWhile reformers such as Martin Luther, Huldrych Zwingli and John Calvin at different points in their writings had expressed what seem to be examples of a residual catholic Marian piety, the Protestant emphasis on \"sola scriptura\", \"solus Christus\", \"soli Deo gloria\", among others kept the honoring of Mary to a minimum, and Protestant teaching about Mary co-terminous with her short part in scripture and creeds. A newer Protestant view of Mary emerging out of the Evangelical movement sees Mary as a feisty, assertive, and radically Christian woman.\n\nSome early Protestants venerated and honored Mary. Martin Luther said of Mary:\n\nJohn Calvin said, \"It cannot be denied that God in choosing and destining Mary to be the Mother of his Son, granted her the highest honor.\" Zwingli said, \"I esteem immensely the Mother of God\" and \"The more the honor and love of Christ increases among men, so much the esteem and honor given to Mary should grow\".\n\nThus the idea of respect and high honour was not rejected by the first Protestants; but rather it was the matter of degrees of honor given to Mary, as the mother of Jesus, that Protestant Reformers were concerned with, and therefore the practical implications for Mariology are still a matter of debate.\n\nThe pre-Lutheran reformer John Wycliffe reflected the Marian spirit of the later Middle Ages in one of his earlier sermons: \"It seems to me impossible that we should obtain the reward of Heaven without the help of Mary. There is no sex or age, no rank or position, of anyone in the whole human race, which has no need to call for the help of the Holy Virgin.\"\n\nDespite Luther's polemics against his Roman Catholic opponents over issues concerning Mary and the saints, theologians appear to agree that Luther adhered to the Marian decrees of the ecumenical councils and dogmas of the church. He held fast to the belief that Mary was a perpetual virgin and the Theotokos or Mother of God. Special attention is given to the assertion, that Luther some three-hundred years before the dogmatization of the Immaculate Conception by Pope Pius IX in 1854, was a firm adherent of that view. Others maintain that Luther in later years changed his position on the Immaculate Conception, which, at that time was undefined in the Church, maintaining however the sinlessness of Mary throughout her life. Regarding the Assumption of Mary, he stated that the Bible did not say anything about it. Important to him was the belief that Mary and the saints do live on after death. \"Throughout his career as a priest-professor-reformer, Luther preached, taught, and argued about the veneration of Mary with a verbosity that ranged from childlike piety to sophisticated polemics. His views are intimately linked to his christocentric theology and its consequences for liturgy and piety.\" Luther, while revering Mary, came to criticize the \"Papists\" for blurring the line, between high admiration of the grace of God wherever it is seen in a human being, and religious service given to another creature. He considered the Roman Catholic practice of celebrating saints' days and making intercessory requests addressed especially to Mary and other departed saints to be idolatry.\n\nJohn Calvin accepted Mary's perpetual virginity and the title \"Mother of God\", in a qualified sense. He considered himself the real follower of Mary because he freed her from misuses of these titles and undeserved \"Papist\" honour which is due only to Jesus Christ, and for returning this honour to him alone. Calvin stated that Mary cannot be the advocate of the faithful, since she needs God’s grace as much as any other human being. If the Catholic Church praises her as Queen of Heaven, it is blasphemous and contradicts her own intention, because she is praised and not God.\n\nCalvin expressed deep concern over its possible \"superstitious\" use of the title \"Mother of God\" from the teachings of the Council of Ephesus :\n\nI do not doubt that there has been some ignorance in their having reproved this mode of speech, — that the Virgin Mary is the Mother of God … I cannot dissemble that it is found to be a bad practice ordinarily to adopt this title in speaking of this Virgin: and, for my part, I cannot consider such language as good, proper, or suitable… for to say, the Mother of God for the Virgin Mary, can only serve to harden the ignorant in their superstitions.\n\nKarl Barth (1886–1968), a Reformed Protestant, was a leading 20th century theologian. Aware of the common dogmatic tradition of the early Church, Barth fully accepted the dogma of Mary as the Mother of God. In his view, through Mary, Jesus belongs to the human race; through Jesus, Mary is Mother of God. Barth also agreed with the Dogma of the Virgin Birth. It meant to him that Jesus as a human does not have a father and that as the Son of God he has no mother. The Holy Spirit, through whom Mary conceived, is not just any spirit, but it is God himself whose act must be understood spiritually and not physically. Mary is \"full of grace\" according to Barth, but this grace is not earned but totally given to her. Regarding Mary’s virginity after birth, Barth argued that the Church adopted this position not because of Mary but in defence of its Christology. Barth considered the Roman Catholic veneration of Mary a terrible mistake and idolatrous heresy.\n\nThe designation \"Theotokos\" (in ) or \"Bearer of God\" for Mary emerged in the Church of Alexandria and was later adopted by the patristic-era universal Church at the Council of Ephesus in 431. It is a statement of Christological orthodoxy (See: hypostasis) in opposition to Nestorianism and also a devotional title of Mary used extensively in Eastern Orthodox, Roman Catholic, Oriental Orthodox, and Anglican liturgy. The second verse of a well known Protestant hymn, Ye Watchers and Ye Holy Ones, is directly addressed to Mary and is based on an Orthodox prayer.\n\nPresently the Lutheran World Federation accepts the teachings of the Council of Ephesus and other ecumenical councils of the patristic-era Church, including the formulation \"Mother of God\" as a function of Christ's hypostatic union. Luther says:\n\nWe too know very well that God did not derive his divinity from Mary; but it does not follow that it is therefore wrong to say that God was born of Mary, that God is Mary’s Son, and that Mary is God’s mother.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries various groups of Protestants began to use the term \"Mariolatry\" to refer to the Catholic, Anglo-Catholic and Eastern Orthodox practices of Marian veneration and devotion. In their view, the attention paid to Mary is extreme, and may not only distract from the worship of God, but actually borders on idolatry.\n\nThis trend has taken various directions over time, in that while some Protestants have at times softened their attitude towards it, others have strengthened their opposition in the 21st century. For instance, during the May 2006 celebrations at Our Lady of Walsingham in England, as Anglicans and Catholics held a Marian procession, Protestant hecklers held banners that condemned Masses, idolatry and \"Mariolatry\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56726916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56726916", "title": "Québec debout", "text": "Québec debout\n\nQuébec debout, sometimes styled Québec Debout ( Stand Up, Quebec or Rise Up, Quebec), formerly the Groupe parlementaire québécois () was a Quebec-based parliamentary group in the House of Commons of Canada during the 42nd Canadian Parliament which consisting of members that resigned from the Bloc Québécois caucus. The group did not have a formal leader, but Rhéal Fortin acted as the party's spokesperson. The group was dissolved on September 17, 2018 with all remaining Québec debout MPs rejoining the Bloc Québécois caucus.\n\nThe Groupe parlementaire québécois was formed on February 28, 2018 by seven Members of Parliament (MPs) who resigned from the caucus of the Bloc Québécois (BQ) due to their opposition to the leadership of Martine Ouellet, as well as political differences with her strategy of emphasizing the party's stance regarding active advocacy for Quebec sovereignty rather than a pragmatic approach that focuses on the practical interests of Quebec.\n\nWhile the seven MPs left the BQ parliamentary caucus, they initially remained members of the BQ party itself and had expressed the desire to remain so. The BQ party executive, in a meeting one week after the group's formation, ruled that the seven defecting MPs would not be expelled from the party for leaving the caucus, and would be allowed to rejoin the caucus in the future.\n\nOn May 1, 2018, the seven MPs announced that they were severing all ties with the BQ and considering founding a new political party. The GPQ members announced on May 9, 2018 that their new party would be registered under the name \"Québec debout\" and would no longer include Quebec sovereignty in its platform.\n\nFollowing Ouellet's decision to resign after losing a leadership review, Terrebonne MP Michel Boudrias and Mirabel MP Simon Marcil announced that they would rejoin the Bloc Québécois caucus. That same day, citing the Bloc's vote to focus exclusively on Quebec sovereignty, Québec debout spokesman Rhéal Fortin announced that he and the party's other four MPs would not rejoin the Bloc Québécois.\n\nThe five Groupe parlementaire québécois MPs were formally redesignated as Québec debout MPs in the House of Commons on June 6, 2018. On September 17, 2018, the five remaining Québec debout MPs rejoined the Bloc Québécois caucus.\n"}
{"id": "33152938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33152938", "title": "Roman villas in northwestern Gaul", "text": "Roman villas in northwestern Gaul\n\nRoman villas in northwestern Gaul (modern France) functioned as colonial economic centers. Most villas did not resemble the luxurious, aristocratic country retreats of the Mediterranean region. Their owners were absentee investors (or the emperor himself), managed by local Gauls whose families were rewarded after the Gallo-Roman wars.\n\nIt is difficult for archeologists to define a villa; the recovered residences varied in size and style (often determined by economic function). However, all sites designated as \"villas\" contain Roman architectural elements found in homes (such as mosaics, porticos, columns and square grounds plans).\n\nAt first the new Roman masters physically changed very little in Gaul, simply refining the rural economic system in an already intensely farmed landscape. These refinements took the form of technological improvements and enhancing the economic structure (which included the transport of goods and raw materials to larger markets).\n\nThe Gauls (Celts who lived in Gaul) were a culture rather than a race, nation or empire. They were skilled in metalworking and cattle-raising. The culture began to dominate France around 800 BCE, replacing the existing culture (but not the people).\nThe Celtic landscape resembled a countryside, with open fields instead of woods; however, Celtic fields were smaller (often square). More fields were used for pasture than for crops because of the need for cattle, sheep and forage. The Gauls intensely managed the forest for wood and forest products; the Romans enhanced the system without dramatically altering it.\n\nVillages and hamlets were denser in the countryside during the Roman period; the population (equal to that at the time of Louis XIV) was about 20 million. At this time, Roman Britain's population of four to six million equaled later-medieval numbers. Homes were better-constructed than most houses built during the Middle Ages; they were built with local materials: timber uprights with plaited wicker, coated with clay, straw and animal hair.\n\nJulius Caesar and his Roman legions succeeded in their conquest of Gaul from 57 to 52 BCE at the invitation of Gauls in Marseille, who asked the Romans to come to their defense.\nThe Romans occupied and managed their empire with a minimum of administrators, no police force and an army primarily located on the frontiers (much like the French colonial empire of the 17th and 18th centuries. A few Roman natives lived in major towns, but most governmental and economic functions were carried out by local Gauls. This \"minimalist empire\" left most people and institutions untouched. New Roman settlements were relatively few; if one paid their taxes and kept the peace, life did not change much during the early centuries of occupation.\n\nThe primary early-Roman modifications were technological improvements and links to a market economy, which often meant new Roman roads and supplies for the Roman army. The major technological addition was a bigger plough (possibly invented in Gaul), which could break up the heavier soil. This new plough cut deeper into the soil, and the ploughman could regulate its depth. It was usually pulled by four to eight oxen, and had three parts:\n\nThe results of these innovations were longer fields (suitable for large estates) and population growth (with the additional food produced).\n\nRoman investors (possibly living in North Africa) bought and sold land, using local Gallic lords to manage the new villa system. These managers built the villas we find today, which historians call a \"romanitas\" (Romanized Gallic villa). These Gauls created a wide variety of homes, from two-room cottages to palaces more in keeping with the Roman ideal of life (evidenced in mosaics, columns and other typically Roman features). This \"romanitas\" was the passport to a new world of consumer goods, prestige and advancement: urban luxury in the countryside.\n\nOriginally, historians believed Roman villas to be primarily near urban centers and major roads; their view of the villas stressed their economic autonomy, since transport over land was expensive and slow (even with the improvement of Roman roads throughout Gaul).\n\nToday, scholars believe that the villas were linked to a broader empire economy through a system of secondary (and tertiary) Roman roads. These roads were sometimes built (or maintained) by villa owners, especially if the road crossed an owner's land. Owners often hired surveyors, geologists and labourers for the work.\n\nVilla sites were places of previous occupation over hundreds (and possibly thousands) of years to reuse stone, water sources, raw materials and transportation links (roads and waterways). In pre-Roman Gaul, tribal areas were divided into parcels approximately the size of a parish (\"pagi\"). Each \"pagus\" usually had a village at its center, and sometimes Iron Age settlements relocated closer to a Roman road.\n\nAn adequate water source was the primary site-location factor for a villa. Deep wells were often dug to ensure enough drinking and cleaning water for the family, laborers and livestock. Clean water was also essential for watermills and (eventually) baths, the Roman indicator of a fully civilized life.\n\nArchaeologists have had difficulties defining villas, since there were a number of local, regional and functional variations. Villa sizes ranged from two rooms to several acres (for rambling houses). The word \"villa\" sometimes refers to an architectural style with residential, urban Roman features such as porticos and columns.\n\nMost villas were food-production operations made up of cultivated fields, meadows and forest, with timber use important. Watermills, cowsheds, corn driers, wine cellars and kilns were typical farm buildings. Villas produced wool, leather and tallow in addition to food. Hunting, fowling and fishing were sources of protein. Beef was important in northern France, and pork in the south; sheep were more common outside the villas. The transport of produce overland was once thought to be too expensive, but amphorae and delicate ceramics were carried across North Africa (causing archeologists to reconsider ancient logistics).\n\nAlthough Romans used barges (towed up rivers by oxen, horses, or slaves) on the Rhone River, it is unknown if the same system was used on the smaller rivers of Lower Normandy. Right-of-way would need to be secured by the state, and a clear riverside track would need to be maintained.\n\nSome Roman villas engaged in industrial production in addition to food and other essentials. These included:\n\nAll villas paid predetermined income and inheritance taxes (\"tributum\") in cash. Materials sold to the army (most commonly leather and corn), were processed on-site. The results were then sent through the empire’s posting stations (\"mansion\") to the northern frontier. All industrial villas bought food, iron for tools, wood and other materials locally, hiring local labor.\n\nSlave-based villas existed in large numbers (especially after the wars of conquest), but were not dominant; free peasants and tenant farmers working for villas were common as well. The primary source of slaves was war, but abandoned-property owners were also rounded up and treated as slaves.\n\nSlaves were considered expensive assets, and treated accordingly. Sometimes several hundred slaves served a medium-sized villa. They were treated as thinking, self-motivated “instruments” with a variety of skills. Owners were firm but tolerant, admonishing and encouraging with small rewards. Women specialized in a number of jobs: cooks, hairdressers, weavers and laundresses.\n\nAfter periods of political upheaval, a father’s job legally bound his son to the same work. The Roman institution of slavery in the empire also provided other options. Many were freed for good service, an incentive. There were also opportunities to earn bonuses and buy freedom. A promising young slave might attend the children’s lessons; an owner could cultivate his own secretaries, accountants, administrators, and tutors and rent them out. The emperor's slaves were insiders in the wealth system, and could become wealthy themselves.\n\nBy the end of the second century BCE, 80 percent of the population consisted of emancipated slaves or their descendants. After the wars of expansion, as the slave pool dried up villas converted to tenant or employed laborers. By the end of the empire most slaves worked in domestic service as the owners’ private staff, rather than as laborers on the estates.\n\nOver five centuries, the villa took on many forms. It sometimes began as a simple cottage, which became embedded in a complex of additions; large investor colonial villas were also designed and built, fully formed. Near the empire’s end, villas became smaller and more numerous.\n\nThe classic great villa consisted of a main house with a veranda (or porch) overlooking two rows of buildings (or wings). These were often not parallel, diverging to enhance the effect of distance. The rooms were connected by the veranda, which acted as a hall. Each room had a different function, and all offered little privacy. Some villas were several rooms deep and lit by a clerestory, or dormer windows. Thick walls indicate villas which could have been two or three stories tall, with attics for storage.\n\nAlthough fireplaces with hoods have been found, most heating was by braziers burning charcoal or coal. Rarely, a central room was heated by hypocausts (under-floor hot air from fires beneath the house). The venting ran up the walls of the villa, emptying under the roof eaves. This source of venting made the home appear to be on fire because of the smoke billowing from the roof edges and walls.\n\nKitchens were unsophisticated, featuring a masonry hearth with a charcoal fire. Coals would have been scraped into a pile, and a portable grill would hold a pot to simmer or grill meat. Kitchens were often near baths, since both required water; they were detached (or at the end of a building) due to the risk of fire. Some kitchen fireplace ovens used refractory brick, which allowed heat to be gradually released into an adjoining room (a library, study or storage room for drying split wood or wine being artificially aged). Kitchen ceilings were high, again to reduce the fire risk.\n\nLavatories were used in towns, but not at villas since trees provided privacy. Rubbish was discarded out the window or into pits. Walls (interior and exterior) and columns might be painted in bright colors, such as red, purple, brown or white. Roof tiles could be a bright sky-blue from the clay-baking process. Painted wall murals rarely survive, but were popular.\n\nAt least one mosaic appears in all villas, usually on the floor in public areas (and especially in dining rooms by the empire’s end). Set in hard Roman cement and buried under collapsed debris, thousands have been found throughout northern Europe. Simple mosaics consisted of a geometric pattern, but an enormous range of cultural and artistic aspects of Roman life were also portrayed (including interpretations of classical literature and Roman mythology).\n\nFurniture was sparse by modern standards: a cupboard, sideboard and an occasional table were set along the walls, and brought out when needed. Beds were simple frames. During the late empire, dining was on reclining couches set in threes. Most rooms were square, with chairs and a small table. Increased wealth was spent not on more furniture, but better-quality pieces.\n\nThe most distinct structure at the villa was the Roman bath, its architectural showpiece: warm, noisy, clean and lavishly decorated. There were two types: Spartan, with high-temperature sauna-style dry heat and a “Turkish” (moist heat) version with plunge baths. A well-equipped bath would provide both, with the bather entering an unheated room to undress and going into a warm room, a warmer room and a hot bath (perhaps including massage) followed by cleansing. Cleansing was done not with soap, but olive oil scraped off with a bronze tool known as a strigil. Cleansing was followed by a cold plunge bath. Lighting for the baths came through narrow lancet windows. Rarely, pale green glass (glazed or held by crossbars) has been found in windows. Personal lighting came from hand-carried oil lamps. Some lamps had multiple wicks, providing more light but consuming more olive oil. An oil lamp was capable of burning for 40 to 50 hours.\n\nOn the outside of the villa, hinged wooden shutters protected windows. Walls were rendered or exposed timber and frame. Roofs were made from thatch, tile, stone, terra cotta or a combination, with occasional stone finials. Flower gardens decorated the villas, resembling ordered patches of wild flowers. These gardens were considered necessary for festivals, family altars and banquets. Common flowers were roses, violets, lilies, narcissus, sunflowers, carnations, hyacinths, bluebells and snapdragons. Vegetable gardens were laid out in beds, yielding lettuce, cabbage, leeks, beans and radishes. Fruits consisted of apples, pears, cherries, figs, almonds and plums.\n\nMost villas had an aisled barn (rarely two), storing equipment and produce rather than animals. Archeologists have found evidence in these barns of corn drying, metalwork and communal kitchens. The barns may have been partitioned, since workers often slept where they worked.\n\nRoman villas illustrate the Christianization of Europe, since the country villa served as \"pieces of cities broken off\" and Christianity originated as an urban religion. The Galois aristocrats benefited from conversion by closer ties to Rome (and the emperor's family) after Constantine’s conversion. Roman culture was flexible, so a multicultural blend (or sympathetic intermingling) was usually the result with many villas religiously ambiguous. The local peasants (and their pagan traditions) were ignored; pre-Roman religious sites evolved into Roman cult sites and (later) Christian pilgrimage destinations. Because the church kept all records throughout the fall of Rome and the Middle Ages, historians have little information about local non-Christian beliefs.\n\nSince historians only know in general terms about Celtic religion, archeology provides additional information. Peasants on the villa estates observed a complex polytheism. While Gallo-Roman religion considered Mercury (known as Lug by the Gauls) the chief god, there were many nature gods and goddesses for war, thunder, trees and youth. Earth goddesses were Divona (water), Onuava (earth) and Epona (horses and fertility).\n\nVilla managers and owners were dependent on local labor. The aristocrats paid lip service to country life with its sturdy virtues, health and innocent pleasures; however, they also felt disdain (mingled with fear) for peasants. The latter have always faced forces beyond their control, seeking to improve and influence their situation with religious acts. Villa owners sometimes created religious sites on their estates as a destination for pilgrimages, but most were abandoned during the Christian era. Aerial photography has confirmed pagan temples in high-villa-density areas by their distinctive square shape (with over 40 in Picardy alone).\n\nAs the central empire declined, villas became more self-sufficient and less part of a larger market economy. At the same time, a greater number of smaller villas appeared, exhibiting Roman culture and values. As Rome waned, the provinces waxed at first.\n\nFrom 235 AD (the death of Emperor Severus Alexander) a series of short-lived, sometime incompetent emperors ruled Rome. They generally died violently, after serving for an average of 2.6 years. The high turn-over represents the attempt to find a leader who could deal with the challenges facing the empire. Generals Postumus and Tetricu in Gaul established a separate 'Gallic' Empire 260-274 in response to an invasion of tribes in 259 which reached as far south as Tarrgona in Spain since the legitimate emperor in Rome was too pressed to respond. Bubonic plague (or malaria) may have swept the provinces, and villa owners feared bandit armies. A manpower shortage meant that fewer people were paying taxes. Some continental villa investors may have moved their holdings to Roman Britain.. The Empire actually did not have a budget in the modern sense until Diocletian, 284-305. The authorities resorted to forced requisition to meet needs.From 257 CE to 276 CE began the first series of barbarian invasions pillaging the countryside. These outsiders sensed the disorganization of the Imperial armies on the frontier, and took advantage of the power vacuum:\n\nRoman rulers debased the currency to pay the armies, creating enormous inflation. Arbitrary requisitions on rural population caused many to flee the anarchic conditions. Beginning in the early fourth century, more villas appeared to be uninhabited; coins and datable pottery become rare in the archaeological record. The market economy survived, unpredictably, in some parts of Gaul. During this time, archaeologists have found more wooden, temporary construction on villa grounds; some villas added fortifications.\n\nA recent, nuanced view is that although massacre sites at villas have been found, most barbarian newcomers arrived with sickle rather than sword; they wanted to be settlers. Backed by armed garrisons living nearby, the new occupiers moved in and dominated politically and culturally. By the early fifth century all villas seemed abandoned as residences; however, archeologists have found small homes built next to the large houses. Some villas seem to have served as cemeteries. Pollen analyses for this period found no drop in crops, indicating that the population largely remained in place and sustained itself. The whole region between the Alps and the Pyrenees, the ocean and the Rhine suffered considerable damage. It took some decades to recover, however Gaul even in the north recovered some of its prosperity especially in the southern half of the country where numerous massive villas are attested. The beginning of the end of Roman Gaul came as a result of the invasions of tribes in 407 who eventually went to Spain in 409. However, the failure to control or remove the Visigoths in the southwest, the Burgundians in Savoy and the Franks in Belgium resulted in the end of Roman control post 455 (the assassination of Valentinian III opened the flood gates). \n\nIn 472-475 CE, the Roman Empire lost control of its remaining provinces in southern Gaul to the Visigoths. In the north the last rulers claiming to be Roman were defeated by the Franks in 486. In 470 CE a mass migration to Brittany from Britain occurred. There was continuity from the Roman villa culture and economy.\n\nThe size and shape of Roman estates did not change from Roman to Frankish occupation; parish or commune boundaries remained from Roman and (probably pre-Roman) times. Some Christians willed their villas to the church in Spain, which may have also happened in France. Some of these became monasteries; churches often occupied villa sites in the countryside as well.\n\nThe suffix \"-ville\" is thought to derive from \"villa\", and place names often derived from the villa name. From the eighth to the twelfth centuries, Norman agglomerations in France began to acquire names. The prefix \"ville\" indicates a rural name; the suffix usually occurred in urban names (meaning the domain of a family's name). Most of this naming was done between the 10th and 11th centuries.\n\nA good way to see Roman Gaul is from the sky. Fields may be seen in a rectangular system, with walls and foundations evident. However, without an archeological dig it is often difficult to date artifacts.\n"}
{"id": "3663597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3663597", "title": "Semantic lexicon", "text": "Semantic lexicon\n\nA semantic lexicon is a digital dictionary of words labeled with semantic classes so associations can be drawn between words that have not previously been encountered. Semantic lexicons are built upon semantic networks, which represent the semantic relations between words. The difference between a semantic lexicon and a semantic network is that a semantic lexicon has definitions for each word, or a \"gloss\".\n\nSemantic lexicons are made up of lexical entries. These entries are not orthographic, but semantic, eliminating issues of homonymy and polysemy. These lexical entries are interconnected with semantic relations, such as hyperonymy, hyponymy, meronymy, or troponymy. Synonymous entries are grouped together in what the Princeton WordNet calls \"synsets\" Most semantic lexicons are made up of four different \"sub-nets\": nouns, verbs, adjectives, and adverbs, though some researchers have taken steps to add an \"artificial node\" interconnecting the sub-nets.\n\nNouns are ordered into a taxonomy, structured into a hierarchy where the broadest and most encompassing noun is located at the top, such as \"thing\", with the nouns becoming more and more specific the further they are form the top. The very top noun in a semantic lexicon is called a \"unique beginner\". The most specific nouns (those that do not have any subordinates), are \"terminal nodes\".\n\nSemantic lexicons also distinguish between types, where a type of something has characteristics of a thing such as a \"Rhodesian Ridgeback\" being a type of dog, and instances, where something is an example of said thing, such as \"Dave Grohl\" is an instance of a \"musician\". Instances are always terminal nodes because they are solitary and don’t have other words or ontological categories belonging to them.\n\nSemantic lexicons also address meronymy, which is a “part-to-whole” relationship, such as keys are part of a laptop. The necessary attributes that define a specific entry are also necessarily present in that entry’s hyponym. So, if a \"computer\" has \"keys\", and a \"laptop\" is a type of \"computer\", then a \"laptop\" must have \"keys\". However, there are many instances where this distinction can become vague. A good example of this is the item \"chair\". Most would define a chair as having legs and a seat (as in the part one sits on). However, there are some very “artistic” and “modern” chairs in overpriced boutiques that do not have legs at all. Beanbags also do not have legs, but few would argue that they aren't chairs. Questions like this are the core questions that drive research and work in the fields of taxonomy and ontology.\n\nVerb synsets are arranged much like their noun counterparts: the more general and encompassing verbs are near the top of the hierarchy while troponyms (verbs that describe a more specific way of doing something) are grouped beneath. Verb specificity moves along a vector, with the verbs becoming more and more specific in reference to a certain quality. For example. The set \"walk / run / sprint\" becomes more specific in terms of the speed, and \"dislike / hate / abhor\" becomes more specific in terms of the intensity of the emotion.\n\nThe ontological groupings and separations of verbs is far more arguable than their noun counterparts. It is widely accepted that a \"dog\" is a type of \"animal\" and that a \"stool\" is a type of \"chair\", but it can be argued that \"abhor\" is on the same emotional plane as \"hate\" (that they are synonyms and not super/subordinates). It can also be argued that \"love\" and \"adore\" are synonyms, or that one is more specific than the other. Thus, the relations between verbs are not as agreed-upon as that of nouns.\n\nAnother attribute of verb synset relations is that there are also ordered into verb pairs. In these pairs, one verb necessarily entails the other in the way that \"massacre\" entails \"kill\", and \"know\" entails \"believe\". These verb pairs can be troponyms and their superordinates, as is the case in the first example, or they can be in completely different ontological categories, as in the case in the second example.\n\nAdjective synset relations are very similar to verb synset relations. They are not quite as neatly hierarchical as the noun synset relations, and they have fewer tiers and more terminal nodes. However, there are generally less terminal nodes per ontological category in adjective synset relations than that of verbs. Adjectives in semantic lexicons are organized in word pairs as well, with the difference being that their word pairs are antonyms instead of entailments. More generic polar adjectives such as \"hot\" and \"cold\", or \"happy\" and \"sad\" are paired. Then other adjectives that are semantically similar are linked to each of these words. \"Hot\" is linked to \"warm\", \"heated\", \"sizzling\", and \"sweltering\", while \"cold\" is linked to \"cool\", \"chilly\", \"freezing\", and \"nippy\". These semantically similar adjectives are considered \"indirect antonyms\" to the opposite polar adjective (i.e. \"nippy\" is an indirect antonym to \"hot\"). Adjectives that are derived from a verb or a noun are also directly linked to said verb or noun across sub-nets. For example, \"enjoyable\" is linked to the semantically similar adjectives \"agreeable\", and \"pleasant\", as well as to its origin verb, \"enjoy\".\n\nThere are very few adverbs accounted for in semantic lexicons. This is because most adverbs are taken directly from their adjective counterparts, in both meaning and form, and changed only morphologically (i.e. \"happily\" is derived from \"happy\", and \"luckily\" is derived from \"lucky\", which is derived from \"luck\"). The only adverbs that are accounted for specifically are ones without these connections, such as \"really\", \"mostly\", and \"hardly\".\n\nThe effects of the Princeton WordNet project extend far past English, though most research in the field revolves around the English language. Creating a semantic lexicon for other languages has proved to be very useful for Natural Language Processing applications. One of the main focuses of research in semantic lexicons is linking lexicons of different languages to aid in machine translation. The most common approach is to attempt to create a shared ontology that serves as a “middleman” of sorts between semantic lexicons of two different languages. This is an extremely challenging and as-of-yet unsolved issue in the Machine Translation field. One issue arises from the fact that no two languages are word-for-word translations of each other. That is, every language has some sort of structural or syntactic difference from every other. In addition, languages often have words that don’t translate easily into other languages, and certainly not with an exact word-to-word match. Proposals have been made to create a set framework for wordnets. Research has shown that every known human language has some sort of concept resembling synonymy, hyponymy, meronymy, and antonymy. However, every idea so far proposed has been met with criticism for using a pattern that works best for English and less for other languages.\n\nAnother obstacle in the field is that no solid guidelines exist for semantic lexicon framework and contents. Each lexicon project in each different language has had a slightly (or not so slightly) different approach to their wordnet. There is not even an agreed-upon definition of what a “word” is. Orthographically, they are defined as a string of letters with spaces on either side, but semantically it becomes a very debated upon subject. For example, though it is not difficult to define \"dog\" or \"rod\" as words, but what about \"guard dog\" or \"lightning rod\"? The latter two examples would be considered orthographically separate words, though semantically they make up one concept: one is a type of dog and one is a type of rod. In addition to these confusions, wordnets are also idiosyncratic, in that they do not consistently label items. They are redundant, in that they often have several words assigned to each meaning (synsets). They are also open-ended, in that they often focus on and extend into terminology and domain-specific vocabulary.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8085623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8085623", "title": "Sequence dating", "text": "Sequence dating\n\nSequence Dating, a relative dating method, allows assemblages to be arranged in a rough serial order, which is then taken to indicate time. Sequence dating is a method of seriation developed by the Egyptologist Sir William Matthew Flinders Petrie. By linking styles of pottery with different time periods, he was able to establish the relative chronology of the site.\n\nSir Flinders Petrie (1853–1942) was the first to use seriation in Egyptology. Sir Flinders Petrie, the younger contemporary of archaeologist Augustus Pitt-Rivers, was meticulous in his excavations and recorded every artifact and detail on site. From his work, Petrie was able to bring chronological order to 2,200 pit graves of the Naqada cemetery in Upper Egypt.\n\nThe sequence dating method allowed the relative date, if not the absolute date, of any given Predynastic Egypt site to be ascertained by examining the handles on pottery, general form of the piece, and the stratigraphic layer it was found in. As more evidence of the predynastic period is uncovered, this dating method in relation to the pottery on site aids in determining the relative date of the site.\n\nTypes of Seriation\n\nContextual: developed by Flinders Petrie, created sequences of assemblages and arranged them in what he thought was their chronological order based on the inventory of grave contents, his work in Egypt proved this to be a generally true reflection of their chronological sequences.\n\nFrequency: measures changes in abundance of a certain ceramic style. Developed by W.S. Robinson and G.W. Brainerd. Created because of artifacts in Mayan sites had been recovered in the 1940s without stratigraphic context. The assumption was that certain styles of pottery were popular in certain times, and during that time, the popularity would reach a peak and then fade away. So, if a similar style of pottery was found at a different site, they must be from around the same time period.\n\nThe European strategy would eventually makes its way into Americanist archaeology during the late 19th century, but it would not be until the second decade of the 20th century that sequence and detail became a part and parcel of archaeology method. Sequence dating has been deemed an obsolete and inaccurate method of dating archeological sites and artifacts, since archaeologists have discovered more precise methods of dating archeological sites and artifacts.\n"}
{"id": "2190258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190258", "title": "Shoulder angel", "text": "Shoulder angel\n\nA shoulder angel is a plot device used for dramatic and/or humorous effect in fiction, mainly in animation and comic books/strips. The angel represents conscience and is often accompanied by a shoulder devil representing temptation. They are a useful convention for depicting the inner conflict of a character.\n\nThe shoulder angel often uses the iconography of a traditional angel, with wings, a robe, a halo, and sometimes a harp. The shoulder devil likewise usually looks like a traditional devil with reddish skin, horns, barbed tail, a pitchfork or, more precisely, a trident and in some cases, cloven hooves. Often, both resemble their host, though sometimes they will resemble other characters in the story who are responsible or mischievous. In Western culture the idea develops the Christian concept of a personal guardian angel, who was sometimes considered to be matched by a personal devil who countered the angel's efforts. Especially in popular medieval dramas, like the 15th century \"The Castle of Perseverance\". In both this and Christopher Marlowe's play \"The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus\", of about 1592, the \"Good Angel\" and \"Bad Angel\" offer competing advice (Act 2, scene 1, etc.) to the hero.\n\nThe non-canonical early Christian book, \"The Shepherd of Hermas\", of around A.D. 140–150, has a reference to the idea of two angels: \"There are two angels with a man—one of righteousness, and the other of iniquity\". These angels in turn descend into a person's heart, and attempt to guide a person's emotions. Hermas is told to understand both angels, but to only trust the Angel of Righteousness. The concept is similar to ideas of personal tutelary spirits that are very common in many ancient and traditional cultures.\n\nIn some Christian folklore, each person has a dedicated guardian angel whose task is to follow the person and try to prevent them from coming to harm, both physical and moral. At the same time each person is assailed by devils, not usually considered as single and dedicated to a single person in the same way as the guardian angel, who try to tempt the person into sin. Both angels and devils are often regarded as having the ability to access the person's thoughts, and introduce ideas.\n\nThere is a similar Islamic belief of Kiraman Katibin, two angels residing on either shoulder of humans which record their good and bad deeds. However, these angels do not have influence over the choices one makes, and only record one's deeds. However, there is a concept much similar to the shoulder angel and devil: the qareen, which, according to Islamic literature, is a personal companion, and there are two with each individual, one from the angels and another from the jinn. The word \"qarīn\" literally means 'constant companion'. The angel pushes the individual to do good and obey God while that from the jinn does the opposite.\n\nIn Japanese Buddhism, the Kushoujin are a pair of beings – Domyo, meaning \"same name\" and Dosho, meaning \"same birth\" – which sit on a person's shoulders, observing and reporting all his deeds. Domyo records good deeds, but Dosho reports bad ones.\n\nIn several modern fictional stories, a character can be marked as especially evil or mischievous by receiving similarly bad advice from both shoulder figures, having a second shoulder devil instead of the angel, or being persuaded by the devil to kick the angel out.\n\nOne may view this image in Freudian terms, with the Angel representing the Super-ego (the source of self-censorship), counterbalanced by the Devil representing the Id (the primal, instinctive desires of the individual), which leaves the individual in question as the Ego.\n\nThe Disney animated film \"The Emperor's New Groove\", its sequel \"Kronk's New Groove\", and the animated series \"The Emperor's New School\" feature the concept of shoulder angels and devils, most notably in the character of Kronk. His appear at various points of moral crisis in the franchise for Kronk, but often spend more time antagonizing each other than actually trying to take Kronk down one path or another. The Oscar-winning Disney short \"Lend a Paw\" also featured Pluto being influenced by a shoulder angel and devil, and Pete has similar manifestations—though simply colored white and red rather than depicted with wings and a halo/horns and a pitchfork, respectively-in episodes of \"Mickey Mouse Clubhouse.\"\n\nThe film \"Cloud Atlas\" is an example of utilizing a shoulder angel plot device in feature film, in which the character of Hugo Weaving whispers bad and good advice to the character of Tom Hanks. Old Georgie (Hugo Weaving) appears only in critical points of the story, where Zachry's mind (Tom Hanks) is split between right and wrong choices.\n\nBYUtv's sketch comedy series \"Studio C\" makes use of the concept in several sketches, with the physical comedy aspect of the angel or devil-a full-sized being played by an actor-having to physically climb up onto the shoulder of the one they are attempting to influence for good or evil.\n\nIt is speculated that the two main protagonists of Neil Gaiman and Terry Pratchett's \"Good Omens\" are supposed to represent the angel and demon on your shoulder as the Demon Anthony J. Crowley tempts people into sin/ baser nature while his counter figure the Angel Aziraphale encourages people to do good and rise above their baser instincts, however neither forces people into following their examples allowing free will to be exercised unimpeded.\n\nIn \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Whacking Day\", Homer presents the concept that everyone has a good and a bad self to Lisa, who then imagines Homer's evil version dancing on the grave of good Homer while singing 'I am Evil Homer, I am Evil Homer', implying that within him the battle for good and evil has long ago been won by his bad angel.\n\nIn the Discworld novel \"Nightwatch\" by Terry Pratchett the killer Carcer was considered by the hero Samuel Vimes to have a demon on each shoulder rather than an angel and a demon, but not opposing each other, just in competition to urge Carcer on to worse deeds. It was said that if Vimes looked deep into Carcer's eyes, he could see the demons looking back.\n\n\"The Adventures of Tintin\" comics used this concept in at least two stories. In \"The Red Sea Sharks\", Captain Haddock's good and bad angels try to convince him to drink a bottle of whisky. The bad one is able to convince him, but the bottle smashes before he is able to drink it, leaving the good angel victorious. In \"Tintin in Tibet\", Snowy is tempted by his demon to lap up Captain Haddock's whiskey leaking from his rucksack or enjoy a huge bone rather than deliver a vital message. His good angel loses the argument, leaving in tears, and he gnaws the bone while the message blows away. Realizing his mistake, Snowy makes amends by reaching a local monastery and brings the monks to help.\nIn both examples, the angels resemble good or bad versions of their subject, with horns and angel wings.\n\nSluggy Freelance comics has made use of this theme, with all three of the main characters: Riff, Torg and Zoe, who have been shown debating with their shoulder angels and demons. Despite being good and bad they both still reflect aspects of their owner - both Riff's are unwilling to commit to a course of action saying 'don't know' when asked for guidance. Torg's angel and demon are both childish while Zoe has her bad demon dressed in revealing outfit, while her good one wishes she could dress in the same fashion.\n\n\"Angel on My Shoulder\" is a 1946 American fantasy film about a deal between the Devil and a dead man.\n\n"}
{"id": "27561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27561", "title": "Stendhal syndrome", "text": "Stendhal syndrome\n\nStendhal syndrome, Stendhal's syndrome, hyperkulturemia, or Florence syndrome is a psychosomatic disorder that causes rapid heartbeat, dizziness, fainting, confusion and even hallucinations when an individual is exposed to an experience of great personal significance, particularly viewing art. It is not listed as a recognised condition in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\".\n\nThe illness is named after the 19th-century French author Stendhal (pseudonym of Marie-Henri Beyle), who described his experience with the phenomenon during his 1817 visit to Florence in his book \"Naples and Florence: A Journey from Milan to Reggio\".\n\nWhen he visited the Basilica of Santa Croce, where Niccolò Machiavelli, Michelangelo and Galileo Galilei are buried, he was overcome with emotion. He wrote:\nHe had been shown the frescoes in the church including those by Giotto, and modern writers frequently attribute his emotions mistakenly to the latter rather than powerful historical associations of the tombs. \n\nAlthough psychiatrists have long debated whether it really exists, its effects on some sufferers are serious enough for them to require treatment in hospital. The staff at Florence's Santa Maria Nuova hospital are accustomed to dealing with tourists suffering from dizzy spells and disorientation after admiring the statue of David, the masterpieces of the Uffizi Gallery and other treasures of the Tuscan city.\n\nEven though there are many descriptions of people becoming dizzy and fainting while taking in Florentine art, especially at the aforementioned Uffizi in Florence, dating from the early 19th century on, the syndrome was only named in 1979, when it was described by Italian psychiatrist Graziella Magherini, who observed and described more than 100 similar cases among tourists and visitors in Florence. There is no scientific evidence to define the Stendhal syndrome as a specific psychiatric disorder; on the other hand there is evidence that the same cerebral areas involved in emotional reactions are activated during the exposure to artworks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5240039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5240039", "title": "Tamil history from Sangam literature", "text": "Tamil history from Sangam literature\n\nSangam literature is one of the main sources used for documenting the early history of the ancient Tamil country. The ancient Sangam poems mention numerous kings and princes, the existence of some of whom have been confirmed through archaeological evidence. Sangam literature is still the main source for the early Cholas, the Pandyas and the Cheras.\n\nSangam was the ancient academy, which enabled Tamil poets and authors to gather periodically to publish their work. The Sangam met periodically in the city of Madurai in South India under the patronage of the Pandya kings. The current estimate is that the Sangam period lasted between 400 BCE until 300 CE. The earliest mention of the Sangam is to be found in the 8th century commentary on the \"Irayanar Agapporul\". It mentions three Sangams lasting, at long intervals, for a total of 9990 years.\n\nSangam literature comprises some of the oldest extant Tamil literature, and deals with love, war, governance, trade and bereavement. Much of the Tamil literature belonging to the Sangam period has been lost. The literature currently available from this period is perhaps just a fraction of the material produced during this period. \nIn the Sangam literature, the Tamil language had reached a level of maturity and began to serve as a powerful and elegant medium of literary expression. It had already developed an elaborate code of conventions governing the portrayal of social life in literature. This must clearly have been the result of evolution and development spread over some generations. \nRecent researches examining Chera inscriptions found in southwestern Tamil Nadu have revealed names of three generations of rulers from the Chera clan. These names are also found in some of the Sangam anthology \"Pathirruppaththu\". Palaeographic analysis of the inscriptions has revealed its age to be within the first two centuries of the Common Era. \nEvidence from ancient Greek and Alexandrian travellers such as Strabo, Ptolemy and Pliny give details of the trade and other relations between the Tamil states and the ancient Greece and Rome. Archaeology has given proof supporting these accounts. Numerous Roman gold and silver coins and pottery have been found from all over Tamil Nadu.\n\nIt is difficult to estimate the exact date of these Sangam works. The period covered by the extant literature of the Sangam is unfortunately not easy to determine with any measure of certainty. Except the longer epics \"Cilappatikaram\" and \"Manimekalai\", which by common consent belong to the age later than the Sangam age, the poems have reached us in the forms of systematic anthologies. Each individual poem has generally attached to it a colophon on the authorship and subject matter of the poem, the name of the king or chieftain to whom the poem relates and the occasion which called forth the eulogy are also found. \nIt is from these colophons and rarely from the texts of the poems themselves, that we gather the names of many kings and chieftains and the poets and poetesses patronised by them. The task of reducing these names to an ordered scheme in which the different generations of contemporaries can be marked off one another has not been easy. To add to the confusions, some historians have even denounced these colophons as later additions and untrustworthy as historical documents. \nA careful study of the synchronisation between the kings, chieftains and the poets suggested by these colophons indicates that this body of literature reflect occurrences within a period of four or five continuous generations at the most, a period of 120 or 150 years. \nAny attempt at extracting a systematic chronology and data from these poems should be aware of the casual nature of these poems and the wide difference between the purposes of the anthologist who collected these poems and the historian’s attempts are arriving at a continuous history. \nThe Sangam age ended around the 3rd century CE with the invasion of Kalabhras from the north.\n\n"}
{"id": "25870447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25870447", "title": "The Best American Mystery Stories 2009", "text": "The Best American Mystery Stories 2009\n\nThe Best American Mystery Stories 2009, a volume in \"The Best American Mystery Stories\" series, was edited by Otto Penzler and by guest editor Jeffery Deaver.\n\nOther distinguished mystery stories of 2008 honored in the volume were Jacob M. Appel's \"Ad Valorem\" (\"Subtropics\"), Ron Rash's \"Into the Gorge\" (\"Southern Review\"), Shelly Nix's \"Monkey\" (\"Hayden's Ferry Review\"), Leslie Glass's \"The Herald\" (\"Blue Religion\") and Becky Hagenston's \"Midnight, Licorice, Shadow\" (\"Crazyhorse\").\n"}
{"id": "5226277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5226277", "title": "The Red Ettin", "text": "The Red Ettin\n\nThe Red Ettin or The Red Etin is a fairy tale collected by Joseph Jacobs. It was included by Andrew Lang in \"The Blue Fairy Book\".\n\nTwo widows lived in a hut, and one had two sons and the other had one—or a single widow had three sons. One day the eldest son was told by his mother to fetch water for a cake, because it was time for him to seek his fortune, and the cake was all she could give him. The can was broken, the water he brought back little, and so the cake was small. The mother offered him all of it with her curse, or half with her blessing, and he took the whole. He left behind a knife, and said if the blade grew rusty, he was dead.\nHe met a shepherd, a swineherd, and a goatherd; each of the three told him the Red Ettin of Ireland had kidnapped the king of Scotland's daughter, but that he was not the man to rescue her. The shepherd also told him to be wary of the beasts he would meet next. They each had two heads, with four horns on each head, and the man fled them and hid in a castle. An old woman told him that it was the castle of the Red Ettin, which had three heads, and he should leave, but he begged her to hide him as best she could, for fear of the beasts.\n\nThe Red Ettin returned, soon found him, and asked him three riddles; when he could answer none of them, the Ettin turned him to stone. At home, his knife grew rusty. In the variants with three sons, the younger brother went after the elder, and met the same fate. The youngest son, or the son of the other widow, set out after him, or them. First, a raven called over his head to look out as he brought the water, and so he patched up the holes and brought back enough water for a large cake. Then he left half with his mother for her blessing.\n\nHe met an old woman on the way who asked for a piece of his cake, and he gave it to her. She, being a fairy, gave him a magical wand and a great deal of advice on what to do, and vanished. The shepherd, swineherd, and goatherd told him of the Red Ettin and the king of Scotland's daughter, and said that he was the man to defeat him. He walked boldly through the beasts to the castle, striking one dead with the wand, and stayed at the castle.\n\nThe Red Ettin asked him his riddle, but the man answered and cut off the Ettin's three heads. He restored the stone and freed the women the Red Ettin held prisoner, and the king married him to his daughter.\n\nJoseph Jacobs collected a version with the three men, but suppressed one because it was repetitious. Andrew Lang included all three young men.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42210952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42210952", "title": "Translanguaging", "text": "Translanguaging\n\nTranslanguaging is the process whereby multilingual speakers utilize their languages as an integrated communication system. It is a dynamic process in which multilingual language users mediate complex social and cognitive activities through strategic employment of multiple semiotic resources to act, to know and to be. Translanguaging involves issues of language production, effective communication, the function of language, and the thought processes behind language use.\n\nIt is believed that the term was first coined in Welsh by Cen Williams as \"trawsieithu\" in his 1994 unpublished thesis titled, \"An evaluation of teaching and learning methods in the context of bilingual secondary education\". Translanguaging can be controlled by both the student and the teacher. It maximises the child's bilingual ability and is being used across the world.\n\nThe 'trans' prefix emphasizes:\n\nWhen talking about bilingualism, some scholars consider translanguaging as opposed to a \"double monolingualism\".\n\nAlthough some scholars have asserted that translanguaging is fundamentally different from codeswitching, these claims have not been anchored to data or the theoretical literature on codeswitching. Like codeswitching, translanguaging is said to be characterized by the integration of multiple languages in the same speech event or linguistic context.\n\nAdditionally, translanguaging is dissimilar from diglossia because translanguaging practices do not mandate a language hierarchy, nor do they mandate that different language systems are assigned to different domains or functions for the speaker; rather, translanguaging develops the adaptability and cooperation of language systems.\n\nBilingual education is thought to go back as far as 4000–5000 years. Among the bilingual tablets unearthed in Aleppo, Syria in 1977, there were a number of pedagogical texts that were used to instruct young scribes.\n\nThe ideology behind translanguaging emerged from the evolution of multilingual teaching practices, particularly the practices promoted by Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL), an international association designed to advance the quality of English language instruction. The beginnings of bilingual education in the United States asserted the primacy of speech and fostered a stark neglect of written language learning. The second language instruction of the 1960s and 70s heavily utilized oral-aural drills, and written portions of the courses were mimetic and repetition oriented, and structure, form, syntax, and grammar were given priority status for learners. In this system there was no focus on actual language use, which led to a lack of knowledge about how language and communication work in real practice.\n\nIn the late 1970s and 80s second language education shifted to focus on the importance of communication and language use for participation in particular discourse communities. However, emphasizing language-learning as a means to enter a discourse community was also problematic, as it pressured students to surrender their own language practices in order to become practicing members of the new discourse communities.\n\nTranslanguaging as a focus of study first emerged in Bangor, Wales in the 1980s. It is based on François Grosjean's idea that bilinguals are not two monolinguals in one. Cen Williams and his colleagues were researching strategies of using both Welsh and English in a single lesson in a classroom setting. Cen Williams' Welsh term \"trawsieithu\" was translated into English as \"translanguaging\" by their colleague Colin Baker.\n\nScholars argue that translanguaging functions as an emancipation from the adverse second language acquisition pedagogies of the 20th century. They believe that translanguaging gives multilingual students an advantage within educational systems because it (1) promotes a more thorough understanding of content; (2) helps the development of the weaker language for bilingual or multilingual speakers; (3) fosters home-to-school links within language use; and (4) integrates fluent speakers with early learners, thus expediting the language learning process.\n\nA prominent argument against incorporating translanguaging into academic contexts is the notion that speakers of International Englishes would have difficulty communicating with one another because of the immense variety of Englishes spoken. However, advocates for translanguaging pedagogy maintain that misunderstandings between speakers of International Englishes who practice translanguaging are not common, and when misunderstandings do occur between speakers they are quickly resolved through other means of negotiation. Advocates argue that speakers of International Englishes can communicate with relative ease because they have a variety of tools to utilize in order to make sense of the language varieties with which they engage.\n\nSome academics call for the development of corpora of 'nonstandard' English varieties to aid with the study of translanguaging.\n\nBarbara Seidlhofer argues that language acquisition programs should not be teaching language with the intention of achieving native-speaker competence, but that they should be \"embracing the emergent realistic goal of intercultural competence achieved through a plurilingualism that integrates rather than ostracizes\" International Englishes. This pedagogical strategy necessitates translanguaging as a means through which to accomplish such plurilingualism. For Seidlhofer, the incorporation of such International Englishes into educational systems would be more beneficial for second language learners than current dominant language acquisition pedagogies, which emphasize standard American and British varieties of English. Since achieving native-speaker status is nearly impossible without years of study, translanguaging presents students with opportunities to learn language in a more supportive space, fostering their language acquisition in all varieties rather than enforcing the participation in and acquisition of a single dominant variety.\n\nProponents of decolonizing the English language argue that holding on to particular varieties of English as the only legitimate varieties to use in language acquisition programs is a practice that perpetuates destructive colonial attitudes towards non-English languages and the English varieties of their speakers. Incorporating translanguaging is one means through which such a decolonization of the English language could occur. In this way, decentralizing those particular dominant varieties of English would work towards legitimizing the use of 'nonstandard' English varieties at the educational level.\n\nNon-native speakers of English around the world outnumber native English speakers of English by a ratio of 3:1. At the current influx of technology and communication, English has become a heavily transnational language. As such, English varieties, and International Englishes are becoming standard usage in international economic exchanges, thereby increasing their legitimacy and decreasing the dominance of the standard American and British English varieties.\n\nThe peoples of anglophone, multi-ethnic societies, notably Malaysia and Singapore, speak, think, work, communicate and live their social lives primarily via translanguaging. In those societies, the creoles of Manglish and Singlish and their related dialects, are classic examples of translanguaging in a society. \n\nThe development of translanguaging as a part of second language acquisition pedagogy signifies an ideological shift in bilingual and multilingual education systems, wherein bilingualism and multilingualism are no longer viewed as a disadvantage to learning a second language, such as English, but rather as an asset. The incorporation of translanguaging into educational settings signifies the movement of the English language towards a more heterogeneous system encompassed of several equally valued English varieties, rather than a system of two enforced varieties (Standard American and British Englishes) contesting with several other depreciated minority varieties. Importantly, translanguaging pedagogy demands that multilingual speakers engaging in translanguaging do not vacillate between language systems arbitrarily, but rather, that they do it with intention and a metacognitive understanding of the way their language practices work.\n\nTranslanguaging promotes a deeper understanding of subject matter, by discussing in one language and writing in another. Students will always reference what they already know from their first language when working with a second language. This helps students process the information and improve communication in their second language. When introduced in a Welsh bilingual classroom, translanguaging meant that the input and output languages were often switched. In this type of setting, students are typically asked to read a text one language and discuss it either orally or in written form in their second language. In the case of the Welsh classroom, the languages used were Welsh and English. This led to an increase of Welsh speakers in primary schools in 2007, with 36.5% of the students being able to speak Welsh, compared to 1987 when only 24.6% of students spoke Welsh.\n\nThe goal of including translanguaging as an aspect of second-language acquisition pedagogy is to move beyond sentence-level and grammatical concerns in second-language teaching strategies, and to focus more heavily on discourse issues and on the rhetoric of communication. Students should be focused on the real applications of language that suit their purposes of communication based on the context in which they are communicating, rather than a one-variety-fits-all mode of learning language. Some scholars writing within translanguaging pedagogy argue for a diversified conception of the English language, wherein the multiple varieties of English exist with their own norms and systems, but all have equal status. Such a system will enable a variety of communities to communicate effectively in English. In this conception of English language, it should be treated as a heterogeneous Global language wherein standard varieties of English such as Indian English, Nigerian English, Trinidadian English, would still have the same status as the orthodox varieties of British and American English. Reinforcing only one variety of English in academic situations is disadvantageous for students, since students will ultimately encounter many varied communicative contexts, and as society becomes more digitally advanced, many of those communicative contexts will be transnational.\n\nSince translanguaging is not yet a widely sanctioned language practice in educational systems, it is often practiced by students in secret and kept hidden from instructors. The practice of natural translanguaging without the presence of direct pedagogical effort can lead to issues of competence and transfer in academic contexts for students. This issue is why academics call for the inclusion of translanguaging in language acquisition programs, since students need to practice their translanguaging in a semi-structured environment in order to acquire competence and proficiency in communicating across academic contexts. If they are given the appropriate context in which to practice, students can integrate dominant writing conventions into their language practices and negotiate critically between language systems as they engage in translanguaging. For students to be successful at translanguaging in academic and other varied contexts, they must exercise critical metacognitive awareness about their language practices.\n\nMaking use of translanguaging in the classroom does not require the teacher to be bilingual; however, it does require the teacher to be a co-learner. Monolingual teachers working with bilingual or multilingual students can successfully utilize this teaching practice; however, they must rely on the students, their parents, the community, texts, and technology more than the bilingual teacher, in order to support the learning, and leverage the students' existing resources. As translanguaging allows the legitimization of all varieties, teachers can participate by being open to learning the varieties of their students, and by incorporating words from unfamiliar languages into their own use, serving as a model for their students to begin working with their non-native languages.\n\nThe traditionally censored nature of translanguaging in high-stakes writing assignments can prevent multilingual students from practicing their translanguaging abilities, and so it is the responsibility of the instructor to provide safe spaces for students to practice and develop their translanguaging skills. Teachers must plan out the translanguaging practices to be used with their students just as each lesson must be planned out, as translanguaging is not random. By reading bilingual authors and texts, teachers give the students the chance to experience two or more languages together and help compare and contrast the languages for the children.\n\nImportantly, the use of translanguaging in the classroom enables language acquisition for the students without the direct insertion or influence of the teacher. While teachers do not need to become a compendium of the languages or language varieties practiced in their classrooms, they do need to be open to working with these new languages and language varieties to encourage student participation in translanguaging.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47576587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47576587", "title": "Truly Tasteless Jokes", "text": "Truly Tasteless Jokes\n\nTruly Tasteless Jokes is a book of off-color humor by Ashton Applewhite, first published in 1982 under the pen name \"Blanche Knott.\" The book was a cultural phenomenon and spawned dozens of sequels, including best-sellers Truly Tasteless Jokes Two (1983) and Truly Tasteless Jokes Three (1984), and a stand-up comedy special.\n\nApplewhite moved to New York City in 1977 to work for St. Martin's Press, where she learned numerous offensive jokes, which her boss encouraged her to write down. In a 2011 article in \"Harper's Magazine\", Applewhite wrote that her collection of jokes quickly grew, and she would ask her coworkers and friends if they knew any others. Frustrated over her $8,500 annual salary as a lowly assistant, she decided to compile a book of the jokes to publish.\n\nApplewhite asked a colleague to be her book agent, but their attempts to have the book published resulted in strong rejections; Applewhite recalled that her agent was told by Dell Publishing's paperback imprint that \"We can't publish this here. I'm not even sure we can \"Xerox\" it.\"\n\nMarilyn Abraham, an editor at Random House imprint Ballantine Books, decided to publish it. The original title was one of Applewhite's favorite jokes, \"What’s the Difference Between Garbage and a Girl from New Jersey?\" (punchline: garbage gets picked up); however, the marketing director responded that she did not get it and wanted to know what the book was about. Applewhite responded, \"It’s a book of tasteless jokes,\" which the marketing director liked.\n\nApplewhite organized her joke collection into \"timeless categories\" including Helen Keller (\"How did Helen Keller burn her fingers? Reading the waffle iron\"), dead baby, Jewish, WASP, black, Polish, homosexual, and handicapped. The book's jokes were typically a few lines or paragraphs in length.\n\n\"Truly Tasteless Jokes\" became a runaway bestseller, appearing on the bestseller lists of \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\" and \"Publishers Weekly\". The original book was the best-selling mass-market paperback of 1983; \"Truly Tasteless Jokes Two\" was No. 10 on the same list.\n\nThe book's uncensored jokes received significant criticism. Historian Barbara Tuchman spoke of the \"breakdown of decency and of standards of taste\" in these \"terribly tasteless, disgusting books,\" while professor John Hope Franklin said the books' success was \"a sad testament to the taste of this country.\" In a satirical vein, an installment of the comic strip Bloom County featured a book with a title similar to Truly Tasteless Jokes, portrayed as an inspirational text read by members of a counterculture resembling the hippies of the 1960s, but espousing conservative views considered typical of the Reagan era in American politics. The condemnation and criticism, however, did little to stop the book's success.\n\nCritic Edward Rothstein, analyzing the books' success for \"The New York Times\", wrote, \"... the telling of a joke brings into the light of society that which is hidden; it creates a marriage between the respectable and the unacceptable. \"Tasteless\" jokes, though, would seem to have gone far beyond the bounds. These are not subtle expressions, their critics charge, but slurs and violations. They result not in marriage, nor even in an affair, but in a reconnoiter somewhere in the shadows. Actually, however, the rendezvous takes place in full daylight, with prejudices and fears displayed for the pleasure of thousands, and the point being made may not be as obvious as it at first appears. ... The \"tastelessness\" of these jokes—many of which have been told for generations—is their main point: Prejudice is mocked, distended to a ludicrous degree. The target of these \"outrageous\" and \"gross\" quips is the very pieties of society that apply such labels. They make us laugh at the pretense that such prejudices do not exist and at the respectable assertion that we are really all the same.\"\n"}
{"id": "45593720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45593720", "title": "Vlaardingen culture", "text": "Vlaardingen culture\n\nVlaardingen Culture was an archaeological culture on the border of the middle and late Neolithic era in what is now the coastal region in the west of the Netherlands. Archeologists found in 1958 in Vlaardingen, a city near Rotterdam, objects from the period between 3500 BC and 2500 BC which justify the designation as a separate culture. Utensils were made of wood and bone, and polished small stone axes were found, which appear to originate from Belgium. Also needles and the remains of a primitive canoe were found.\n\nThis hunting and fishing culture was sedentary and semi-nomadic. In the old dunes at the then much further east lying coastline the remains of some peasant settlements were found. From these findings it can be deduced that animal husbandry (sheep and goats) and agriculture (wheat and barley) had been practised on a small scale. Vlaardingen culture had also traits of a Mesolithic hunter-gatherer society because agriculture in much of the Wadden Sea area and the Rhine–Meuse–Scheldt delta was difficult. Hunting and fishing were important means of livelihood. Bones found near the settlements of deer, bears, otters and sturgeon support that.\n\nVlaardingen culture co-existed with the more land inward Funnel beaker culture to which it shows similarities and differences. Based on the pottery and the occupied environment, the Vlaardingen culture and the Funnel beaker culture seem clearly distinguishable from one another. When the Funnel beaker culture ceases to exist, the Corded Ware culture succeeds it. The Vlaardingen culture however, endures in the west (3400–2500 BC), until it is finally succeeded by the Corded Ware culture as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "53741257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53741257", "title": "Whistling Shade", "text": "Whistling Shade\n\nWhistling Shade is a literary journal based in St. Paul, Minnesota. Founded in 2001, the journal features fiction, poetry, memoir and essays on literary topics. Whistling Shade is semi-annual, and the print issue is distributed freely in cafes, book stores, and libraries in the Twin Cities area. Issues often have themes such as ghosts, mystery, song lyrics and bar stories.\n\nAccording to the journal website, Whistling Shade takes “a populist approach to literature and our audience is the general reading public.” It is run by volunteers, has no academic backing and chooses not to apply for grants. Whistling Shade also publishes novels, short story and poetry collections by authors such as Jarda Cervenka, Sharon Chmielarz, Norita Dittberner-Jax and Jeff Vande Zande. It is financed by book sales, subscriptions and advertising. Poet Alan Morrison wrote of Whistling Shade: \"it’s the sheer uncynical, approachable and didactic style of the articles which struck me, making for genuinely informative reading, on a variety of literary-related subjects, blissfully free of that consciously ‘ironic’ style of commentary that sadly informs much of UK journals.\" \n\n\n\n"}
