{"id": "29430314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29430314", "title": "2008 Russian military reform", "text": "2008 Russian military reform\n\nSignificant reforms of the Russian Armed Forces were announced in October 2008 under Defence Minister Anatoliy Serdyukov, and major structural reorganisation began in 2009. The stated aims of the reform are to reorganize the structure and the chain of command in the Russian army, and to reduce it in size.\n\nKey elements of the reforms announced in October 2008 included:\n\nThere had previously been several reform attempts such as the 1997 plan under defence minister Igor Sergeyev and the 2003 programme of President Putin (‘Urgent Tasks for the Development of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation’), the latter of which was very similar to the 2008 programme, as it emphasized already the need for reductions in personnel strength, a gradual decrease in the use of conscripts in favour of professional soldiers, the creation of a professional NCO corps and drastic changes to officer training and education. The 2003 program however moved at a very slow pace, mainly due to the unwillingness of the military to reform.\n\nAn essential part of the military reform is its down-sizing. By the beginning of the reform, there were about 1.13 million active personnel in the Russian Armed Forces. The planned reduction to 1 million servicemen will be advanced from 2016 to 2022. Largely, the reductions falls within the officers. They used to account for about one third of the total strength of the Armed Forces: this will be reduced to 15%.\n\nThe enlisted men are to be reduced according to the table:\n\nOn April 4, 2011 General-Colonel Vasily Smirnov, Deputy Chief of the General Staff, said that the reformed forces would consist of 220,000 officers, 425,000 contract servicemen and 300,000 conscript soldiers.\n\nAn important element of the reforms is the creation of a professional NCO corps. Such a corps would serve as the basis for soldier training and military discipline. The NCO corps will consist of specialists with almost 3 years (2 years and 10 months) of training. The first new NCO Training Center was established in December 2009 at the Ryazan Institute for Airborne Troops. The future NCOs will occupy the posts of commanders and deputy commanders of motor rifle, reconnaissance, airborne, and motor transport platoons, as well as company and battery first sergeants. It is planned to have 2,000 candidates annually. However, the introduction of sergeants into the system will take not 3–4 years as envisaged, but at least 10–15. This delay could undermine reform by creating problems with management and the manning of those combat arms where a relatively high percentage of officers are involved in the direct operation of military equipment, such as the submarine fleet, air-defense forces, etc.\n\nFrom 1992 to 2010, the Russian Ground Forces were divided into six military districts:\n\nIn mid 2010, a reorganisation was announced which would consolidate military districts and the navy's fleets into four Joint Strategic Commands (OSK). Geographically divided, the four commands will be:\n\n\n\"Serdyukov's Defense Ministry will also be putting some soon-to-be-vacant real estate up for sale, e.g., Moscow MD headquarters (Polina Osipenko Street, Moscow), Far East MD headquarters (Seryshev Street, Khabarovsk). The initial asking prices for these buildings and land will be several billion U.S. dollars. As long planned, proceeds from these sales, along with the sale of the Navy Main Staff, military educational institutions, and other military establishments in Moscow, are supposed to fund construction of housing for servicemen as well as military garrison infrastructure in new army deployment locations.\"\n\nBefore the 2008 reform, the Russian Ground Forces (SV) had 24 divisions, namely 3 tank divisions, 16 motorized rifle divisions and 5 machine gun artillery divisions, as well as two division-strength military bases in Armenia and Tajikistan, and 12 independent brigades. Out of those 24 divisions, only 5 motorised rifle-divisions were at full strength in 2008. Only about 13% of the army units could be deemed permanently combat-ready. It was announced that every tank or motorized-rifle division will be split, as a rule, into two brigades. This process began in October 2008 with the splitting of the 2nd Guards Tamanskaya Motor Rifle Division near Moscow. By the end of 2009, 23 of the 24 divisions had been disbanded and their elements were used to create 4 tank brigades, 35 motorized rifle brigades (10 of which were pre-existing) and one \"fortifications\" brigade. All the brigades are permanent-readiness forces. Almost all brigades are now designated \"otdelnaya\" (separate), with several units retaining the \"Guards\" honorific. The only remaining division is the 18th Machine Gun Artillery Division on the Kuril Islands.\n\nThe number of military units and formations in the Ground Forces will be reduced from 1,890 to 172 within three years. The original four-link command and control system (military district – army – division – regiment) has been replaced by a three-link system (military district – operational command – brigade).\n\nThe number of units in the Russian Air Force (VVS) will be reduced from 340 to 180, the number of air bases from 245 to 52. It was announced that the Air Force plans to eliminate the reduced, two-squadron aviation regiments (those with 24 combat aircraft per regiment). The new organization of the VVS establishes the Air Base as the basic structural element. Each air base will include an HQ, 1–7 air squadrons (or aviation groups), an airfield service battalion and communication units. The Belarusian Air Force currently uses the same structure. All Aviation Division HQs have been disbanded and the Air Bases receive their orders from the seven new Aviation Commands:\n\nAll the air defence divisions and corps of the Air Defence Forces (PVO), which are part of the Air Force since 1998, have been disbanded and replaced by 13 aerospace defence brigades. These new brigades have been distributed among the seven commands, and consist of fighter aviation air bases, SAM regiments and radar regiments.\n\nThe Gagarin and Zhukovskiy air force academies have been merged into the new Zhukovskiy-Gagarin Air Force Academy in Monino.\n\nThe Russian Navy (VMF) will be cut almost by half, from 240 to 123 units. On the other hand, its fighting capability will be bolstered by bringing various units to 100% of their full wartime strength. Other planned changes are the offloading of non-military assets such as housing, the outsourcing of some jobs to civilian contractors and a reduction of the number of non-combat officers.\n\nThe Fleets have been subordinated to the new Operational Strategic Commands: the Northern and Baltic Fleets are part of the Western Military District, the Black Sea Fleet and Caspian Flotilla are part of the Southern Military District, and the Pacific Fleet is part of the Eastern Military District.\n\nUnder the State Armament Program, 100 warships will be procured by 2020. The purchase of 20 submarines, 35 corvettes and 15 frigates is planned for example 6-8 Project 885 SSNs and 6 Project 636.\n\nThe Navy's schools and research institutes have been merged into a territorially distributed Naval Academy Research and Training Center which consists of the Naval Academy, the Higher Special Officer Courses, five naval research institutes, three MOD research institutes, the Nakhimov Naval School in St. Petersburg and the Naval Cadet Corps.\n\nThe Naval Aviation and the support units were reorganized into 13 air bases which were in a second stage merged into territorially integrated structures. As is the case for the reformed Air Force, each new air base consists of an HQ, support units and one or more aviation groups (the former air bases).\n\nSeveral units of the Naval Infantry have changed their status. The 61st Separate Naval Infantry Brigade of the Northern Fleet has become a regiment, the 810th Regiment of the Black Sea Fleet has become a brigade, the 55th Division of the Pacific Fleet has been disbanded and replaced by the 155th Separate Naval Infantry Brigade, and the 77th Brigade of the Caspian Flotilla was disbanded too.\n\nInitially it was planned to transform the four existing divisions of the Airborne Troops (VDV) into 7 to 8 air-assault brigades, among a number of other cuts and changes which drew of lot of protest of reserve and active airborne troopers who fear a loss of status.\n\nHowever general Shamanov, who was appointed as new CinC of the VDV in May 2009 and who generally supports the reform programme, cancelled all cuts and changes in the VDV and announced that the airborne troops would be reinforced.\n\nMOD Serdyukov announced that he does not see the need to create independent rapid-reaction forces. \"The Armed Forces already have such units in the VDV. They will be strengthened, and each military district will have an Airborne brigade to carry out urgent missions and operations under unpredictable circumstances.\"\n\nThe divisions have been beefed up and there are now four independent airborne/air-assault brigades.\n\nThe Strategic Missile Troops (RVSN) will retain 8 in place of twelve missile divisions.\n\nThe number of units/formations of the Russian Space Forces (KV) will be reduced from 7 to 6.\n\nThe centralization and downsizing of the military education system is closely related to planned reductions to the officer corps. The Russian military education system had been based upon the previous set of Soviet military academies. Serdyukov announced that the 65 military institutions of higher learning (15 academies, four universities, 46 colleges – including Suvorov and Nakhimov schools – and institutes) will be reduced by 2012 to just ten \"systemic institutions\": three research and teaching centers, six academies and one university. The new institutions will not only serve to train officers, but also to conduct research. They will be established according to territory, not combat arm. For now, all existing facilities will become affiliates of these ten centers; decisions regarding potential closures will be taken later. Serdyukov affirmed that the entire faculty of existing military institutes will be preserved and absorbed into the new system, and that only the managerial layer will be reduced. He also said that many formerly military specializations, such as lawyers, will now be educated at civilian facilities.\n"}
{"id": "59043191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59043191", "title": "2018 Czech political crisis", "text": "2018 Czech political crisis\n\nCzech political crisis in 2018 started when \"Seznam News\" published an interview with son of Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, Andrej Babiš Jr. Babiš Jr. stated that his father's people kidnapped him in Crimea and kept him there.\n\nJournalists of \"Seznam News\", Sabina Slonková and Jiří Kubík, found Andrej Babiš Jr. in Switzerland, where he lives with his mother. They interviewed him. Babiš Jr. participated in his father's business involving farm Stork's Nest. He states that he was kidnapped by his father's people in 2016 when Stork's Nest was investigated by European Anti-Fraud Office and then kept in Crimea. He stated that his father's employees threatened him. He noted that he was sent to National Institute of Mental Health. Babiš Jr.'s mental illness was diagnosed by Dita Protopopová, who was at the time member of the Prague 8 Municipal assembly, elected for ANO 2011, as a candidate for mayor. She resigned her mandate, when the interview was published.\n\nOpposition parties expressed shock with reports that Andrej Babiš had his son get kidnapped. Leader of the Civic Democratic Party Petr Fiala organised meeting with leaders of other opposition parties namely Czech Pirate Party, Freedom and Direct Democracy, Christian and Democratic Union – Czechoslovak People's Party, TOP 09 and Mayors and Independents to talk their approach. Opposition then called for Babiš' resignation and decided to cause motion of no confidence. Opposition has 92 MPs of 200. They need 101 MPs to overthrow the government. Leader of Czech Social Democratic Party decided Jan Hamáček didn't rule out that his party might leave coalition government.\n\nAndrej Babiš, who was at the time in Palermo, stated that his son is mentally ill and called the interview a \"disgusting attack\" on his family. He stated that he considers it a campaign against his persona. He refused the statement that his son was kidnapped. Servere \"Parlamentní Listy\" reported that the interview caused inner turmoil within Babiš' party ANO 2011 as its members were banned to talk about the affair with journalists. Some reports noted that Babiš might be replaced by Richard Brabec as the prime minister. However, Babiš announced on his Facebook page, that he will \"Never resign\" and that \"Everyone would do well to remember that\"\n\nOn November 13, ODS, Pirates, KDU-CŠL, TOP 09, and STAN have agreed that they will vote in favor of the no-confidence vote (totaling 70 votes), while ANO will vote against it (78 votes). ČSSD, a junior coalition partner of the ANO-led government, KSČM, a party that provides support for the government, and SPD, an opposition party, who was in favor of the idea of a no-confidence vote, have taken an undecided approach (52 votes). On November 15, Babis and ANO had negotiations with the SPD, KSČM, and the ČSSD. SPD leader, Tomio Okamura, said that he and his party will vote against the no-confidence vote, if the ČSSD leaves the coalition. Okamura has said that his party can’t join the coalition due to the unresolved case about the kidnapping of his son, but he said he would consider the confidence and supply arrangement with KSČM. Okamura also stated the desire of two concessions, which are the implementation of an SPD-program in the government and the change of certain policies, implemented by the ANO-ČSSD government. Negotiations, will continue before the no confidence vote with Okamura, Filip, and Hamacek.\n\nOn November 15, President Miloš Zeman annouced that Babiš will stay in the position of PM no matter the result of the no confidence vote, as he would simply appoint him again. Again with intent of letting him govern without confidence, as he would have let his first cabinet rule indefinitely in case of no coalition with ČSSD. And also called the interview a \"disgusting hyenism\", citing his personal resentment against Slonková.\n\nOn November 17, Andrej Babiš travelled to Switzerland, to talk to his son and ex-wife. Police and state attorneys \"were not afraid\" that he might attempt to influence them (it is a crime to influence witnesses in Czech Republic) and did not even propose any countermeasures (such as prohibition to meet them). Police instead focused on a case of flowers put by Babiš as a tribute to Velvet revolution being thrown into a trash bin by a protester, which also attracted considerable attention of Babiš's supporters.\n\nOn November 18, Beata Babišová, mother of Babiš jr. and Ex-wife of Babiš sr. posted a video online, where she asked journalists to \"leave her family alone\" and also called her son insane. Earlier, Babiš junior claimed that his mother tries to silence him and that his father forces her to do so. But later stopped communicating entirely.\n\nOn November 19, there was a fire in Czech National institute of mental health, where Dita Protopopová worked and where Babiš jr. was originally declared insane, promting many to theorize whether the fire was set on purpose to destroy evidence.\n\nOn November 20, PM Babiš met with the leadership of Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, who provide his government with confidence. After the event, Babiš left without talking to present journalists and KSČM announced that they will vote against the motion of no confidence. On the same day, Dita Protopopová, Babiš's adviser on mental health, key figure on Ministry of Heath regarding psychiatric care reform and mayor candidate for ANO in Prague, who originally declared his son insane, which effectively prevented him from testifying in the case of Čapí hnízdo, left her job at Czech National institute of mental health.\n\nOn November 21, leadership of ČSSD announced that their deputies will leave the chamber for the vote and not take part in it (this counts as voting no, as motion of no confidence requires majority of all deputies to pass). But also announced that they would support a potential self dissolution of Chamber of deputies and therefore, snap elections. This would take 120 out of 200 deputies.\n\nOn November 23, it was announced the opposition had lost the no-confidence vote.\n"}
{"id": "7855935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7855935", "title": "26 Baku Commissars", "text": "26 Baku Commissars\n\nThe 26 Baku Commissars were Bolshevik and Left Socialist Revolutionary (SR) members of the Baku Soviet Commune. The commune was established in the city of Baku, which was then the capital of the briefly independent Azerbaijan Democratic Republic, and is now the capital of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The commune, led by Stepan Shahumyan, existed until 26 July 1918 when the Bolsheviks were forced out of power by a coalition of Dashnaks, Right SRs, and Mensheviks. \n\nAfter their overthrow, the Baku commissars attempted to leave Baku but were captured by the Centrocaspian Dictatorship and imprisoned. On 14 September 1918, during the fall of Baku to Ottoman forces, Red Army soldiers broke into their prison and freed the commissars; they then boarded a ship to Krasnovodsk, where they were promptly arrested by local authorities and, on the night of 20 September 1918, executed by a firing squad between the stations of Pereval and Akhcha-Kuyma on the Transcaspian Railway.\n\nThe Baku Commune, a short-lived political entity, lasted from 13 April to 25 July 1918. It came to power after the bloody confrontation with the Muslim population, known as the March Days in Baku. During its brief existence the Commune had to face several problems: from the shortage of food and supplies to the threat of a strong Ottoman Empire Army which wanted to attack Baku. Despite the difficult conditions, the Commune carried out several social reforms, such as the nationalization of the oil industry. This is how the writer Victor Serge described the situation in May, June and July and the state of the small Red Army of Baku:\n\nOn 5 June 1918 the Baku Red Army repulsed an assault by overwhelming Ottoman troops, but later it launched an unsuccessful assault on Ganja, the headquarters of the Ottoman Army of Islam, and was obliged to retreat to Baku.\nAt this point, Dashanaks, Right SRs and Mensheviks started to negotiate with General Dunsterville, the commander of the British troops in Persia, inviting his troops to Baku in order to defend the city from an imminent Ottoman attack. The Bolsheviks and their leftist allies opposed this scheme, but on 25 July the majority of the Soviet voted to call in the British, and the Bolsheviks resigned.\nThe Baku Commune was imprisoned for participation in unlawful military formations and militarized robbery, particularly for the March Days atrocities and was replaced by the Central-Caspian Dictatorship.\n\nIn contrast to what happened in many parts of Russia, where the Bolsheviks earned a reputation for ruthlessness executing those who did not support them, the Bolsheviks of Baku were not so strict. The Cheka in Baku executed only two persons, both members of the Soviet caught in embezzling public funds: the Commissar for Finance, Aleksandr Kireev, and the commissar of the steamship \"Meve\", Sergei Pokrovskii.\n\nAfter the fall of the Baku Soviet in July 1918, the Bolshevik leaders and some loyal troops tried to reach Astrakhan, the only Caspian port still in Bolshevik hands. However, their ship was intercepted by the military vessels of the Caspian fleet and after undergoing an hour's bombardment in mid-sea they surrendered and returned to Baku. Most of the Bolshevik militants were arrested and remained in prison until, after the fall of Baku to the Turks, a commando unit led by Anastas Mikoyan freed them from their prison.\n\nShahumyan, Dzhaparidze, Azizbekov, and their comrades, along with Mikoyan, then boarded the ship \"Turkmen\", intending to reach Astrakhan by sea. According to recent historians, the sailors chose instead to sail to Krasnovodsk for fear of being arrested in Astrakhan. At Krasnovodsk the commissars were arrested by the town's commandant who requested further orders from the \"Ashkhabad Committee\", led by the Socialist Revolutionary Fyodor Funtikov, about what should be done with them. Three days later, British Major-General Wilfrid Malleson, on hearing of their arrest, contacted Britain's liaison-officer in Ashkhabad, Captain Reginald Teague-Jones, to suggest that the commissars be handed over to British forces to be used as hostages in exchange for British citizens held by the Soviets. That same day, Teague-Jones attended the Committee's meeting in Ashkabad which had the task of deciding the fate of the Commissars. For some reason Teague-Jones did not communicate Malleson's request to the Committee, and claimed he left before a decision was made. He further claimed that next day he discovered the committee had eventually decided to issue orders that the commissars should be executed. According to historian Richard H. Ullman, Teague-Jones could have stopped the executions if he wanted since the Ashkabad Committee was dependent on British support and could not refuse a request from its powerful ally, but he decided not to do so.\n\nOn the night of 20 September, three days after being arrested, twenty-six of the commissars were executed by a firing squad between the stations of Pereval and Akhcha-Kuyma on the Trans-Caspian railway. How Anastas Mikoyan, who was part of the group, managed to survive is still uncertain, as is the reason why his life was spared. In 1922, V. Chaikin, a Socialist Revolutionary journalist, published a description of the moments before the execution.\n\nSoviet officials later blamed the executions on British agents acting in the Baku area at the time. When Soviet rule was established in the whole Caspian area, Funtikov, the head of the Ashkhabad 'Directorate' responsible for the executions, was imprisoned. Funtikov put all blame for the executions onto Britain, and in particular Teague-Jones who, he claimed, had ordered him to have the commissars shot. Funtikov was tried and shot in Baku in 1926. Britain denied involvement in the incident, saying it was done by local officials without any knowledge of the British.\n\nThis accusation caused a further souring of relations between Britain and the fledgling Soviet government and helped lead to the confrontational attitude of both sides in the coming years.\n\nAccording to Soviet historiography two British officers on board the commissars' ship ordered it to sail to Krasnovodsk instead of Astrakhan, where they found a government led by SRs and British officers who immediately ordered the arrest of the commissars. The Soviets would later immortalize the death of the 26 commissars through, among other things, movies, artwork, stamps, and public works including the 26 Commissars Memorial in Baku. In Isaak Brodsky's famous painting, British officers are depicted as being present at the executions.\n\nBoris Vladimirovich Sennikov published a book in 2004 about his findings on the Tambov Rebellion where he mentioned several facts about the event.\n\nSennikov claims that the famous Brodsky's painting is an invention of the Soviet historiography. The truth was established by the special commission of the All-Russian Central Executive Committee (VTsIK) that arrived from Moscow. The commission was headed by Vadim Chaikin (PSR). The commission also consisted of a big group of a high-ranking Moscow's Cheka officers headed by Yakov Peters, an international criminal associated with the Siege of Sidney Street. Sennikov also brings up a quote of Chaikin in the article of Suren Gazaryan \"That should not be repeated\" in the Leningrad magazine \"Zvezda\": \"The painting of Brodsky \"Execution of the 26 Baku Commissars\" is historically false. They were not shot, but rather decapitated. And the executioner of the penalty was a single man - a Turkmen, a gigantic strength bogatyr. That Turkmen by himself with his own hands using shashka beheaded all of them.\" The pit with remains of the commissars and their heads was uncovered under the surveillance of the VTsIK special commission and representatives of Cheka. The report on the death of Baku commissars was sent by the commission to VTsIK, Sovnarkom, and the Central Committee of RKP(b).\n\nIn 1922 Vadim Chaikin published his book \"To the history of the Russian Revolution\" through the Grazhbin Publishing (Moscow) commemorating the first part \"Execution of 26 Baku Commissars\" to the event. After serving time in the Oryol Prison Chaikin on 11 September 1941 he was executed by a firing squad along with 156 other Oryol prison inmates during the Medvedev Forest massacre. \nThe twenty-six \"Baku Commissars\" were not all commissars and were not all Bolsheviks; some of them were Left SRs and Dashnaks. There were many nationalities among them: Greek, Latvian, Jewish, Russian, Georgian, Armenian and Azerbaijani.\n\nThe 26 \"commissars\" were:\n\nIn January 2009, the Baku authorities began the demolition of the city's 26 Commissars Memorial. This was the latest monument of several that had been built to commemorate the Commissars erected in that park during the Soviet period. This last monument itself had been fenced-off since July 2008. The remains of the commissars were reburied at Hovsan Cemetery on 26 January 2009, with participation of Muslim, Jewish and Christian clergy, who conducted religious ceremonies.\n\nThe dismantling was opposed by some local left-wingers and by the Azerbaijan Communist Party in particular. It also upset Armenia as the Armenian public believed that the demolition and reburial was motivated by the reluctance of the Azerbaijanis, after the Nagorno-Karabakh War to have ethnic Armenians buried in the center of their capital. Another scandal happened when Azerbaijani press reports claimed that during the exhumation only 21 bodies were discovered and that \"Shahumyan and four other Armenian commissars managed to escape their murderers\". This report was questioned by Shahumyan’s granddaughter Tatyana, now living in Moscow, who told the Russian daily Kommersant that:\n\"It is impossible to believe that they weren’t all buried. There is a film in the archives of 26 bodies being buried. Apart from this, my grandmother was present at the reburial.\"\n\nAlmost all monuments in Azerbaijan dedicated to the commissars including Shahumyan, Azizbekov, Dzhaparidze and Fioletov, have been demolished. Most streets named after the commissars have been renamed.\n\nRussian prominent poet Sergei Yesenin wrote \"Ballad of the Twenty-six\" to commemorate the Baku Commissars, poem first published in \"The Baku Worker\", 22 September 1925.\n\nRussian alternative music band WOMBA named one of its albums \"The 27th Baku Commissar\".\n\nItalian prominent writer Tiziano Terzani wrote about the Baku Commissars in his book 'Buonanotte, signor Lenin' \"(Goodnight, Mr Lenin: A Journey Through the End of the Soviet Empire, 1992)\".\n\nNine Photos of past monuments dedicated to the 26 Baku Commissars, plus photo of the funeral. Azerbaijan International, Vol. 15:2-4 (2011), pp. 167–169.\n"}
{"id": "44950685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44950685", "title": "Acción Gallega", "text": "Acción Gallega\n\nAcción Gallega (AG, \"Galician Action\" in English language) was one of the most important agrarianist, antiturnista and anti-client politics (anticaciquismo) political movements in Galicia in the 20th century. With a decidedly antiforal and redemptionist character, in its first formulation, constituted the radical sector of the Galician agrarianist in the 1910s.\n\nThe origins of AG lie in the agitated year of 1909. In that year, a group of Galician politicians, intellectuals and journalists living in Madrid met day after day. They were: Basilio Álvarez, Alfredo Vicenti, Manuel Portela Valladares, Enrique Peinador, Luís Antón del Olmet, Prudencio Canitrot, Alfonso Alcalá Martín, Ricardo Vilariño, Rafael Carvajal, Cánovas Cervantes, Eloy Páramo, etc. The topic of their discussions was the constant agrarian and antiforal struggles in Galicia; namely the liberation of the Galician peasants and, more generally, of Galicia in general. Acción Gallega was conceived as a movement in that tumultuous context. In January 15, 1910, the movement gave the first public sign of life, with the appearance of \"Acción Gallega\", the official magazine of the movement, subtitled \"Biweekly Magazine and defender of regional interests\". Basilio Álvarez was the main promoter of the magazine and of the movement. A part of this journalistic campaign, AG also initiated a series of meetings and actions of different nature. Agrarianist associations of Ribadeo, Riotorto, Fonsagrada, Becerreá and other municipalities joined AG.\n\nThe rallies and meetings of Acción Gallega began in the Terras de Meira with Basilio Álvarez, Prudencio Canitrot, Cánovas Cervantes and Rafael Carvajal as the main speakers. The elections to the Spanish Cortes of 1910 allowed them to participate actively in the campaign, presenting three candidates: Rafael Carvajal, in the district of Mondoñedo; Alfredo Vicenti, by Becerreá, and Manuel Portela Valladares in Fonsagrada. The success was total in Fonsagrada, being Manuel Portela Valladares elected deputy, and an electoral fraud of the caciques prevented the triumph of Alfredo Vicenti in Becerreá. Acción Gallega gained a deputy in the Congreso de los Diputados.\n\nAt this early stage what AG wanted was to give a sense of unity to the Galician agrarian movement, split into different fronts (Galician Solidarity, antiforistas, Unión Campesina, etc.). This led to the attempt of creating in 1910, an unified agrarian political party in Galicia, the Liga Agrario-Redencionista (LAR), which was a total failure. After the failure of the LAR, the magazine \"Acción Gallega\" disappeared.\n\nIn 1911 a series of events radicalized the movement, along with their leader, Basilio Álvarez, which was increasingly interested in christian socialism. In August 1912 the \"Manifesto de Ourense\" appears, where Acción Gallega undertook a campaign of rallies, with an agrarian and cooperativist character, to collect the aspirations of the peasantry and send them to the Spanish Government. The rallies, that had a verbal radicalism unprecedented in Galicia, began in O Carballiño, and continued in Ribadavia, Gondomar, Ourense, Bande, A Estrada, etc. The tone of the speakers was radical, rebel and even openly revolutionary, especially the tone of Basilio Álvarez, which said that Madrid feared the possibility of a revolution in Galicia. The tone of the speakers was also increasingly regionalist and autonomist. Famous poets like Ramón Cabanillas and Antonio Noriega Varela made popular poems (all in Galician language) dedicated to the imminent revolution of the peasants. The official magazine, \"Acción Gallega\", was printed again in 1912.\n\nThis radicalization made Acción Gallega lost some moderate supporters and gained more radical others, like the anarchists. Most of the press also began attacking the movement, which until then had defended.\n\nSince 1912 the movement focused on fighting caciques, with a clear ideology inspired by the regenerationism and redemptionist antiforismo, again based in the oratorial skills of Basilio Alvarez and his group of unconditional friends.\n\nThe decomposition of AG was the result of the persecutions the movement suffered in its late years. Since 1913, the constitutional guarantees didn't apply to Acción Gallega, which was de facto banned. In 1914 the movement was involved in cases of unrest and terrorism. Due to his confrontation with the authorities and the bishop of Ourense Basilio Álvarez was forbidden to exercise the priesthood and, finally, his character of priest was withdrawn by the bishop Eustaquio Ilundáin y Esteban. Due to this Manuel Portela Valladares and Alfredo Vicenti abandoned Acción Gallega. This, and the split of the Ourense section of AG marked the end of the organization, in late 1914.\n\nDespite the dissolution of Acción Gallega the Galician agrarian movement continued to be very influenced by its ideas and radicalism.\n\nAcción Gallega used a poem of Ramón Cabanillas, written in 1910, as its official anthem.\n\n"}
{"id": "13591341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13591341", "title": "Americans for Prosperity", "text": "Americans for Prosperity\n\nAmericans for Prosperity (AFP), founded in 2004, is a libertarian/conservative political advocacy group in the United States funded by David H. Koch and Charles Koch. As the Koch brothers' primary political advocacy group, it is one of the most influential American conservative organizations.\n\nAfter the 2009 inauguration of President Barack Obama, AFP helped transform the Tea Party movement into a political force. It organized significant opposition to Obama administration initiatives such as global warming regulation, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the expansion of Medicaid and economic stimulus. It helped turn back cap and trade, the major environmental proposal of Obama's first term. AFP advocated for limits on the collective bargaining rights of public-sector trade unions and for right-to-work laws, and it opposed raising the federal minimum wage. AFP played an active role in the achievement of the Republican majority in the House of Representatives in 2010 and in the Senate in 2014.\n\nIn the 2014 mid-term election cycle, AFP led all groups, other than political action committees (PACs), in spending on political television advertising. AFP's scope of operations has drawn comparisons to political parties. AFP, an educational social welfare organization, and the associated Americans for Prosperity Foundation, a public charity, are tax-exempt nonprofits. As a tax-exempt nonprofit, AFP is not legally required to disclose its donors to the general public. The extent of AFP's political activities while operating as a tax-exempt entity has raised concerns among some campaign finance watchdogs regarding the transparency of its funding.\n\nAmericans for Prosperity was founded in 2004 when internal rivalries caused a split in the conservative political advocacy group Citizens for a Sound Economy (CSE), creating Americans for Prosperity and FreedomWorks. AFP's founding was funded by businessmen and philanthropist brothers David H. Koch and Charles Koch, of Koch Industries. The Americans for Prosperity Foundation is the Koch brothers' primary political advocacy group. According to a spokesperson from Koch Industries, the Koch companies do not direct the activities of AFP.\n\nAFP's original stated mission was \"educating citizens about economic policy and mobilizing citizens as advocates in the public policy process\". Its current stated mission is \"to mobilize citizens to advocate for policies that cut red tape and increase opportunity, put the brakes on government overspending, and get the economy working for hard workers– not special interests.\" It is focused on \"fiscal responsibility,\" and in particular on cutting taxes, reducing regulation of business, and limiting the power of the courts. According to FactCheck.org, \"AFP seeks to support free markets and entrepreneurship by advocating lower taxes and limited government spending and regulation\". Its leaders view the organization as a counterbalance to the progressive movement's unions and activist organizations. According to NBC News, \"The New York Times\" and others, some of AFP's policy positions align with the business interests of the Koch brothers and Koch Industries, including its support for rescinding energy regulations and environmental restrictions, expanding domestic energy production, lowering taxes, and reducing government spending, especially Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2007, AFP was led by Nancy Pfotenhauer. In 2005, the Kochs hired political strategist Tim Phillips to work at AFP.\n\nAFP had a staff of 116 employees in September 2012, and the next year it had chapters in 34 states and reported a membership of 2.3 million. In June 2014, it had 240 employees in 32 states. AFP has been active in national, state, and local elections. AFP registered to lobby in 2014. According to FactCheck.org, by 2011, AFP had \"emerged as one of the most influential conservative issue advocacy groups on the national and state political scene\". The \"Los Angeles Times\" said AFP performed roles typical of national and state political parties. ABC News said in August 2014 that AFP was \"poised to be the most influential conservative group in the nation this year, and among the most influential and heaviest spending across the political spectrum this year and into the looming presidential race\".\n\nAs of mid-September 2018, Americans for Prosperity has become one of just 15 groups which account for three-quarters of the anonymous cash; following the 2010, Citizens United v. FEC decision by the U.S. Supreme Court, which paved the way paved the way for dark money to flow into U.S. elections. \n\nTim Phillips is president of both AFP and the AFP Foundation. AFP has been called both the political and educational arm of the AFP Foundation. AFP and the AFP Foundation share offices and staff.\n\nAs of 2014, New Jersey businesswoman Frayda Levin chaired the board of directors of AFP. Other directors include Pfotenhauer, former U.S. government official and economist James C. Miller III, James E. Stephenson, and Mark Holden. Filing with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) as a 501(c)(4) nonprofit, tax-exempt, social welfare organization, contributions to AFP are not tax deducible. AFP is legally required to operate as non-partisan, it may not endorse or oppose political candidates, its primary purpose may not be political, it must be primarily engaged in social welfare activities, and no more than half of its expenditures may be political.\n\nDavid H. Koch chairs the board of directors of the AFP Foundation. Other directors include Pfotenhauer, economist Walter E. Williams, Debra Humphreys, and Cy Nobles. The AFP Foundation is an associate member of the State Policy Network, a national network of free-market oriented think tanks. As a 501(c)(3) non-profit, tax-exempt charity, contributions to the AFP Foundation are tax deducible, and such charities are largely prohibited from political activity.\n\nTax-exempt, nonprofit charitable organizations such as AFP are generally not required to disclose their contributors, in contrast with political action committees. Some campaign finance watchdogs and Democrats have criticized AFP for what they perceive to be its funding of political activities from undisclosed sources. For example, the Sunlight Foundation and others have accused non-disclosing political groups like AFP of filing for nonprofit status solely to invoke the right to hide their donors. President Obama, speaking at a Democratic National Committee fundraising dinner in August 2010, criticized AFP for its political spending and non-disclosure of donors. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee filed a complaint with the IRS charging that the AFP Foundation had funded political advertisements in violation of the law applicable to the foundation's tax-exempt classification. AFP responded that the charges were without merit. President of AFP Tim Phillips later suggested that the reason behind the Democrats' filing of the complaint was simply that they were scared of the impact the organization was having.\n\nIn 2010 and 2011, AFP reported to the IRS that it was not involved in political activities. Questioned by a reporter before the 2012 Wisconsin recall elections, AFP's Wisconsin director said AFP was educating the public and not engaging in political activity. In 2014, an AFP spokesperson said AFP had the right to keep its donors private, citing \"NAACP v. Alabama\", a 1958 Supreme Court ruling that protected National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) donors from potential harassment. In 2014, AFP president Phillips said that protecting donors' identities was prudent given the Obama administration's ideology-based IRS targeting of citizens. The AFP Foundation said its supporters have received serious threats. In February 2015, a federal judge granted the Foundation's motion for a preliminary injunction staying California Attorney General Kamala Harris's request for the names and addresses of Foundation donors, pending resolution of the legality of the request.\n\nWhile AFP does not disclose its funding sources, some supporters have acknowledged their contributions and investigative journalism has documented others. AFP has been funded by the Kochs and others.\n\nAt AFP's 2009 Defending the Dream summit, David Koch said he and his brother Charles provided the initial funding for AFP. In initial funding, David Koch was the top contributor to the founding of the AFP Foundation at $850,000. Several American companies also provided initial funding of the AFP Foundation, including $275,000 from State Farm Insurance and lesser amounts from 1-800 Contacts, medical products firm Johnson & Johnson, and carpet and flooring manufacturer Shaw Industries.\n\nLater grants from the Koch family foundations include $1 million in 2008 to AFP from the David H. Koch Charitable Foundation and $3 million between 2005 and 2007 to the AFP Foundation from the Claude R. Lambe Charitable Foundation, controlled by Charles Koch. Other grants from Koch-related funding sources include $32.3 million in 2012 and $1.5 million in 2013 from Freedom Partners and $4.2 million through 2011 to the AFP Foundation from the Center to Protect Patient Rights.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2012, the AFP Foundation received $4.17 million from the John William Pope Foundation, chaired by AFP director Pope, the largest identifiable donor to the AFP Foundation. In 2011, the AFP Foundation received $3 million from the foundation of the family of billionaire Richard DeVos, the founder of Amway, making the DeVos family the second largest identifiable donor to the AFP Foundation. In 2010, AFP received half a million dollars from the Bradley Foundation. AFP received smaller grants in 2012 from tobacco company Reynolds American and in 2010 and 2012 from the American Petroleum Institute. The donor-advised fund Donors Trust granted $11 million to AFP between 2002 and 2010 and $7 million to the AFP Foundation in 2010.\n\nAFP helped transform the nascent Tea Party movement into a political force.\n\nAFP supported the Tea Party movement by obtaining permits and supplying speakers for rallies. AFP helped organize and publicize a \"Porkulus\"-themed protest on the state capitol steps in Denver, Colorado on February 17, 2009, in conjunction with Obama signing the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Within hours of CNBC on-air editor Rick Santelli's remarks on February 19, 2009, that criticized the Act and called for a \"Chicago tea party,\" AFP registered and launched the website \"TaxDayTeaParty.com,\" calling for protests against Obama. AFP had a lead role in organizing Taxpayer Tea Party rallies in Sacramento, Austin, and Madison in April 2009. AFP was one of the leading organizers of the September 2009 Taxpayer March on Washington, also known as the \"9/12 Tea Party,\" according to \"The Guardian\". On April 16, 2011, former Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin was the keynote speaker at an AFP annual tax day tea party rally at the state capitol in Madison, Wisconsin.\n\nIn the 2010 midterm elections, AFP played a major role in achieving a Republican majority in the U.S. House of Representatives. AFP supported tea party groups, purchased political advertisements, and sponsored a nationwide bus tour themed \"November is Coming\" to recruit organizers and canvassers. AFP helped Tea Party groups organize voter registration drives. An AFP website offered \"Tea party Talking Points.\" The organization provided Tea Party activists with education on policy, training in methods, and lists of politicians to target. In October 2010, AFP sponsored a workshop on the political use of the internet at a Tea Party convention in Virginia. AFP said it spent $40 million on rallies, phone banks, and canvassing during the 2010 election cycle. Of the six freshman Republican members of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce in 2010, five benefited from AFP advertisements and grassroots activity.\n\nDavid Weigel wrote in \"Slate\" that AFP \"in the Tea Party era evolved into one of the most powerful conservative organizations in electoral politics.\" AFP and the Tea Party share many of the same principles. In 2010, AFP was one of the most influential organizations in the Tea Party movement, and the largest in terms of membership and spending. According to Bloomberg News, with AFP the Koch brothers \"harnessed the Tea Party's energy in service of their own policy goals, including deregulation and lower taxes...As the Tea Party movement grew in the aftermath of Obama's election, the Kochs positioned Americans for Prosperity as the Tea Party's staunchest ally\".\n\nAFP advocates for a reduction in public sector union benefits and pensions, in conjunction with curtailments of public sector collective bargaining rights. AFP has opposed raising the minimum wage.\n\nAFP's activities in Wisconsin developed the state into the nation's foremost conservative-progressive battleground, and AFP used tactics in Wisconsin that were applied in later campaigns.\n\nAFP has been a major supporter of Republican Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker. In 2009 and 2010, AFP helped raise the statewide profile of Walker, then Milwaukee County county executive, by inviting him to address its rallies. In 2011, when Walker's agenda of reduced spending, cuts to union benefits, and limits on public-sector collective bargaining drew thousands in opposition to the streets around the state capitol in Madison, AFP bussed in hundreds to counter-protest. AFP spent $320,000 on television advertisements and sponsored a website and bus tour themed \"Stand Against Spending, Stand With Walker\", and spent a total of $7 million in support of Walker.\n\nAFP spent $3 million in opposition to the recall campaign against Walker in 2011–2012 and sent 75 trained canvasers to Wisconsin. After the passage of Walker's signature legislation, the 2011 Wisconsin Act 10, which limited collective bargaining rights for most public employees, AFP ran advertisements and held town-hall meetings with the theme \"It's Working Wisconsin!\" Days before the recall election, AFP sponsored a ten-city bus tour themed \"A Better Wisconsin.\" In the context of Walker's 2014 re-election campaign, AFP purchased television issue advertisements in support of Act 10.\n\nAmericans for Prosperity's Wisconsin campaign curtailing collective bargaining rights and turning back a recall demonstrated to AFP that similar efforts could succeed in Michigan. A top priority of AFP in Michigan was right-to-work legislation, which prohibited employers from deducting union dues from employee pay checks and prohibited labor contracts from excluding non-union members.\n\nAFP had opposed Michigan Governor Rick Snyder, a Republican, on a number of issues, including the Detroit River International Crossing Bridge project, an expansion of Medicaid funded by the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and a road bill which raised taxes. AFP coordinated support for right-to-work in Michigan. The AFP Foundation produced a 15-page booklet titled \"Unions: The Good, the Bad and the Ugly: How forced unionization has harmed workers and Michigan.\" AFP's website urged members to gather at the state capital in Lansing on December 6, 2012, and some three hundred protestors showed up. AFP bussed in activists and offered supporters $25 gas cards, free lunch, and drinks. AFP reserved space and erected a large heated tent near the Capitol steps for supporters. On the morning of December 6, during a lame duck session of the Republican-controlled Michigan legislature, Snyder called a joint press conference with the legislative leadership to announce fast-track right-to-work legislation. The legislation passed both houses of the Michigan legislature that day, as protesters and counterprotesters demonstrated outside. Michigan state police responded. AFP said protesters tore down the AFP tent. No arrests were made. On December 10, President Obama visited Daimler AG's Detroit Diesel factory in Redford, Michigan, and told employees the legislation was about the \"right to work for less money.\" Snyder signed the legislation on December 11. In 2014, Snyder ran for re-election and AFP posted an online advertisement praising his legislative record.\n\nAFP ran an early television advertising campaign opposing Obama's re-election. An August 2012 ProPublica analysis of broadcast television political advertising purchases by category showed that two nonprofit organizations, AFP and Crossroads GPS, combined, outspent all other categories, including political parties, political action committees, super PACs, unions, and trade associations. While previously AFP had run issue advertising that opposed Obama's programs, in August 2012 the organization shifted to express advocacy, which explicitly called for his defeat. That month, AFP spent $25 million on television commercials against Obama. AFP said the goal of the commercials was to educate voters. AFP raised $140 million in the 2012 election cycle, and it spent $122 million, more than in all the previous eight years since its founding. The organization spent more than $33.5 million on television advertisements opposing Obama's re-election.\n\nIn 2011 and 2012, AFP spent $8.4 million in swing states on television advertisements denouncing a loan guarantee the Department of Energy had made to Solyndra, a manufacturer of solar panels. Solyndra was the first recipient of such a guarantee under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and the company went bankrupt. In January 2012 \"The Wall Street Journal\" said AFP's Solyndra campaign was \"perhaps the biggest attack on Mr. Obama so far in the 2012 election campaign.\" AFP sent a bus on a nationwide tour condemning Obama's economic policies called the \"Obama's Failing Agenda Tour.\"\n\nIn April 2011 in New Hampshire, AFP sponsored an informal gathering of five Republican presidential candidates, including Mitt Romney, Tim Pawlenty, Michele Bachmann, Rick Santorum, and Herman Cain. AFP offered tea party groups $2 for every new AFP member their volunteers signed up at polling places in the February 2012 Florida Republican primary. AFP employed methodologies developed in its efforts to thwart the recall of Wisconsin governor Scott Walker, including deploying a smartphone application called \"Prosperity Knocks\" to canvassers. AFP canvassers utilized \"Themis,\" an online voter database of millions of Americans. AFP president Phillips said that AFP's canvassing support application offered field operatives the previous voting history of voters integrated with Census data and consumer data including purchases, magazine subscriptions, and favorite websites.\n\nAFP supports oil and gas development and opposes regulation, including environmental restrictions. The AFP Foundation opposed President Obama's efforts to address global warming. AFP was important in creating the Tea Party movement and in encouraging the movement to focus on climate change. AFP helped defeat proposed U.S. legislation embracing cap and trade, a market-based approach to control pollution by providing economic incentives. In August 2009, \"Mother Jones\" magazine identified cap and trade as one of the key domestic policy goals of the Obama administration, and identified AFP as one of the most prominent groups in opposition.\n\nIn 2008, AFP circulated the No Climate Tax Pledge to government officials at the federal, state, and local levels, a pledge to \"oppose any legislation relating to climate change that includes a net increase in government revenue.\" By July 2013, 411 lawmakers and candidates, including a quarter of U.S. Senators and more than a third of U.S. Representatives, primarily Republicans, had signed the pledge. Of the twelve Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee in 2011, nine signed the pledge.\n\nAFP held more than eighty events in opposition to cap and trade, including the nationwide Hot Air Tour, which involved floating hot air balloons in protest of what AFP described as \"global warming alarmism.\" AFP raised a balloon in Phoenix, Arizona, in fall 2008 and also over Al Gore's house in Tennessee. AFP described cap and trade as \"the largest excise tax in history.\" AFP sponsored a Regulation Reality Tour to foment opposition to climate change legislation and federal regulation of carbon emissions. The tour involved fake \"carbon cops\" with badges in green Smart cars with flashing lights who wrote citations for \"carbon crimes\" like running a lawn mower. In 2011, AFP launched a Running on Empty website and national tour featuring a 14-foot inflatable gas pump intended to link rising gas prices to the Obama administration's environmental regulations and to promote offshore drilling for oil. Long lines formed in several states in 2012 when AFP offered drivers gas discounted to the price in effect when Obama took office. In 2012, AFP campaigned against Republican political candidates who acknowledged the science of climate change.\n\nAFP advocates for the construction of the proposed Keystone XL Pipeline. In February 2015, AFP organized supporters to telephone the White House urging Obama to sign legislation authorizing the project. AFP led an effort to repeal a federal tax credit for wind power. In Kansas, Ohio, North Carolina, and other states, AFP campaigned to overturn renewable portfolio standards, state laws that mandated a percentage of the state's electricity come from renewable resources. AFP announced plans to oppose Republican candidates who support a carbon tax in the 2016 presidential primaries.\n\nAFP has described itself as the nation's largest grassroots champion for health care freedom. In August 2009, \"Mother Jones\" magazine identified health care reform as one of the key domestic policy goals of the Obama administration, and identified AFP as one of the most prominent groups in opposition. AFP sponsored two other groups advocating against the Obama administration's proposed health care reform, Patients United Now and Patients First.\n\nIn May 2009, AFP launched Patients United Now, which opposed a single-payer health care system and a government-funded health insurance option. It purchased television advertisements warning of \"government-controlled health care\" or a \"Washington takeover\" of health care. In one Patients United Now television advertisement, a Canadian woman, Shona Holmes, said she could not get timely treatment in Canada and ultimately was treated in the U.S. Patients United Now staged more than three hundred rallies to oppose the Obama administration's proposed Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA).\n\nIn summer 2009, Patients First sponsored a six-week \"Hands Off My Health Care\" bus tour. Hands Off My Health Care events included rallies protesting against the health care plan and collected signatures in an effort to raise awareness about free-market-based health care reforms. AFP held Hands Off My Health Care events in more than 250 cities, according to AFP president Phillips.\n\nAfter the ACA became law, AFP worked for its repeal and campaigned to block states from accepting federal funds made available under the law to expand Medicaid. State legislators who supported Medicaid expansion were targeted, including Republican Virginia state senators Emmett Hanger and John Watkins. AFP bussed in volunteers to a hearing in the state capital and to call constituents, distribute flyers, and send mailings. AFP campaigned against Medicaid expansion in Michigan, Louisiana, and Nebraska and helped defeat Medicaid expansion in Florida. AFP president Phillips said AFP advocated for repeal of the ACA to keep the issue \"in front of the public\" and to use the threat of a presidential veto to portray Obama as \"unwilling to take some reasonable commonsense reforms.\" Phillips told \"The New York Times\" that a broader goal of AFP's anti-ACA advertising spending was to present the ACA as a \"social welfare boondoggle\" which would foster opposition to spending on climate change. In March 2012, AFP, with support from the California-based Tea Party Express, organized a rally at the Capitol during the Supreme Court's oral arguments regarding the constitutionality of the ACA.\n\nAFP played a major role in the 2014 midterm elections, helping Republicans achieve a majority in the U.S. Senate. AFP targeted legislators who had supported the ACA four years earlier. AFP's first campaign advertisement aired in September 2013, and by January 2014 the organization had spent $20 million, by May, $35 million, and by July, $44 million, amounts unprecedented so early in a political campaign cycle. Senators targeted Kay Hagan, Mary Landrieu, Mark Begich, and Jeanne Shaheen, all Democrats. In early 2014, AFP ran nationwide advertisements featuring stories about people whose health care, according to the ads, had been compromised by the ACA, whom AFP termed \"ObamaCare victims.\"\n\nBetween January 1, 2013, and August 31, 2014, in the campaign to control the Senate, AFP aired more than 27,000 television advertisements, about one in every 16 ads. AFP was one of the leading spenders on political advertising in 2014. AFP lead all non-political action committees in terms of spending on television air time for political advertisements in the 2014 election cycle through April.\n\nAFP advocates limited government. Within two days of Obama's inauguration in February, 2009, Americans for Prosperity launched a television advertising campaign and a website \"nostimulus.com\" which featured an online \"No Stimulus\" petition addressed to U.S. Senators, notifying them that the vote on Obama's first major legislative initiative, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, would be included in AFP's congressional rankings and urging a \"no\" vote. The petition characterized the Act as \"dramatically increasing federal debt and spending...under the pretense of stimulus or recovery.\" Internet traffic overwhelmed the website, but it was unable to prevent passage in the legislature and a petition to repeal the act. In 2011, AFP opposed the extension of unemployment benefits, writing that unemployment benefits increase unemployment. In late 2012, AFP opposed a proposed federal relief bill after Hurricane Sandy, the second-costliest hurricane in United States history. AFP's New Jersey director questioned the federal government's role in natural disaster relief, saying it should be limited to the repair of federal buildings. AFP opposed smoking bans in Texas and Virginia.\n\n\"Government overspending is the greatest threat to economic prosperity,\" according to AFP. In 2013, AFP launched a \"Spending Accountability Project\" which supported letting the $85 billion in automatic cuts to federal spending required by the budget sequestration take effect. AFP opposed the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, also known as the Ryan-Murray deal, which proposed $40 billion in spending in excess of the sequestration. AFP called the deal \"not just bad policy, it is bad politics\" and noted the loss of the \"hard-won bipartisan spending limits set by the sequester.\"\n\nAFP advocates for lower taxes. AFP opposed a 2006 cigarette tax hike in Indiana and helped fund the \"No on 29\" effort in opposition to California Proposition 29 (2012), which would have placed a $1 excise tax on tobacco products to fund smoking medical research and smoking cessation. In 2013 in Indiana AFP ran a television advertising campaign in support of Governor Mike Pence's ten percent state income tax cut. AFP advocates for the repeal of the estate tax, which they call the \"death tax\".\n\nAFP advocates for free market solutions. In 2011, AFP sent mailings and funded radio advertisements criticizing the proposed construction of a Detroit River International Crossing bridge, a publicly financed project that would compete with the nearby privately owned Ambassador Bridge linking Detroit, Michigan, with Windsor, Ontario; AFP charged that the project would be a waste of taxpayer money if toll revenues did not cover debt service.\n\nAFP advocated the dissolution of the Export-Import Bank of the United States.\n\nAFP opposes consideration of race and economic class in the assignment of students to schools. According to AFP's North Carolina state director, in 2009 AFP did voter education and supplied volunteers in school board-elections in Wake County, North Carolina. Wake County includes the state capital, Raleigh, and has the 18th largest school district in the US. AFP supported a slate of candidates that opposed desegregation busing, which AFP has called \"forced busing.\" AFP ran phone banks and canvassed in another school board election in Kenosha, Wisconsin in 2014. AFP helped organize rallies in favor of virtual and charter schools.\n\nAFP is a member of the Internet Freedom Coalition, which opposes net neutrality. AFP's vice president for policy Phil Kerpen chaired the Coalition. AFP supported January 2014's federal appeals court ruling against the Federal Communication Commission's authority to enforce net neutrality. AFP urged Congress to legislatively pre-empt regulation of the internet.\n\nAFP sponsors the \"Grassroots Leadership Academy\", a training program designed to help build a conservative movement in respect to the rise of Trumpism.\n\nIn 2007, AFP began hosting a yearly Defending the American Dream Summit, now the second-largest annual gathering of conservatives in Washington, D.C. In conjunction with the July 2008 Netroots Nation conference in Austin, Texas, AFP hosted RightOnline, a conference of conservative bloggers and activists that aimed to develop conservative social media strategies, which become an annual event.\n\nIn June 2011, AFP placed fake eviction notices on doors in the Delray neighborhood of Detroit, stating that homes might be taken to make way for the Detroit River International Crossing project.\n\nIn August 2011, AFP mailed absentee voter applications to Democratic voters in at least two recall elections in Wisconsin that included a filing deadline two days after the election. The return envelopes were addressed to an \"Absentee Ballot Application Processing Center\" with the post office box number of Wisconsin Family Action, a socially conservative group, rather than to the clerk's office. Responding to charges of voter suppression, AFP said the incorrect date was a \"printing mistake\" and was intended only for voters in the two districts where Democrats are set to face recalls on a later date. The state board of elections opened an investigation.\n\nIn 2013 in Virginia and 2014 in Arkansas, the AFP Foundation mailed \"voter history report cards,\" which included the public-record voting history of both the addressee and its neighbors.\n\nA 2014 television advertisement targeting Democratic U.S. Senate candidate Gary Peters of Michigan for his support of the Affordable Care Act featured leukemia patient Julie Boonstra, who said she could no longer afford the cost of her treatment after the ACA. \"The Washington Post\" reported that the advertisement had \"significant factual errors and/or obvious contradictions.\" Boonstra would save at least $1,000 a year under the ACA, according to \"The Detroit News\". AFP aired another television advertisement in which Boonstra said Peters was trying to silence her. AFP apologized for another television advertisement that criticized the ACA and Democratic Senator Mark Udall, a candidate for reelection, using images of a somber Obama and Udall from their visit to Aurora, Colorado, in the wake of the 2012 Aurora shooting.\n\nIn April 2014, AFP mailed voters in at least eight West Virginia counties material that may have led them to believe they were ineligible to vote in an upcoming primary election. The mailings, received just before the deadline to update voter registration, included registration cards and prepaid return envelopes addressed to county clerks, with a message cautioning voters that if they did not update their voter registration, they might lose their right to vote in the upcoming primary election. AFP's West Virginia director said the mailings were a non-partisan, get out the vote effort targeting unregistered voters.\n\nIn September 2014, AFP was investigated by the state board of elections of North Carolina after the state Democratic Party filed a complaint regarding an AFP voter registration mailing labelled \"official application form\" containing inaccurate information including an incorrect filing deadline five days before the actual deadline. AFP stated the mistakes in the North Carolina mailings were \"administrative errors.\"\n\nIn 2017, AFP ran ads attacking Virginia Democratic candidate for governor Ralph Northam.\n\nIn 2018, the New Hampshire attorney general’s office began investigating the nonprofit status of AFP after a group of Republican representatives accused the conservative activist group of improperly wading into state elections. The investigation is ongoing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49060845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49060845", "title": "April 6 Youth Movement Democratic Front", "text": "April 6 Youth Movement Democratic Front\n\nThe April 6 Youth Movement Democratic Front () is an Egyptian activist group established in spring 2011 after the differences in the April 6 Youth Movement, led by Ahmed Maher. Differences in the Movement started to appear in April when leaders of the movement announced they would transform it into a NGO or foundation on its anniversary. TV host and founder, Abd Alrahman Ezz, of 6 April \"Democratic Front\", told Ahram Online that the decision was taken without consultation. \"It was taken with no respect for democracy, for the majority,\" Ezz says. The lack of internal democracy is the main reason why some left the mainstream movement, led by Ahmed Maher, forming the Democratic Front, Ezz says most of the old members joined the Democratic Front. On August 5th, a group of 6 April Youth Movement members in Alexandria announced that they had joined the Democratic Front, leaving the Ahmed Maher front due to what they considered discrimination in decision making processes.\n\nThe split is not limited to Cairo and Alexandria but also seems to have been reproduced itself across the country. On August 6th, a group of April 6 Movement members in Kafr El-Sheikh governor announced that they joined the Democratic Front, leaving the Ahmed Maher Front. The same happened in Behaira and Port Said.\n\nThe April 6 Movement Democratic Front is using the same raised fist symbol as the Otpor! movement from Serbia, that helped bring down the regime of Slobodan Milošević, and whose nonviolent tactics were later used in Ukraine and Georgia, an organization founded by former Otpor! members.\n\nBoth movements (maher front and democratic front ) banned by an Egyptian court on 28 April 2014. The Constitution Party condemned the verdict, arguing that the charges against the movement were \"false\" and that the court ruling was an example of state institutions undermining and destroying the rule of law. Hamdeen Sabahi's presidential campaign warned of the \"return to a state of suppression and banning.\" Abdul Ghaffar Shukr, vice president of the National Council for Human Rights, has stated that the council is prepared to stand in solidarity with the April 6 Youth Movement democratic front, and will aid the movement if it requests assistance. Human Rights Watch condemned the ruling as \"a clear violation of citizens’ rights to free association, peaceful assembly, and free expression.\" The April 6 movement democratic front has vowed to defy the ban, as well as attempt to repeal it.\n\n\nIn July 2013, following the military coup against President Morsi, members of 6 April participated in The Third Square, a movement created by liberal, leftist and moderate Islamist activists who reject both Muslim Brotherhood and military rule. Many April 6 members also played founding roles in the Road of the Revolution Front, an organization dedicated to achieving the revolutionary goals of bread, freedom, and social justice.\n\nThe April 6 Movement, Ahmer Maher and the Democratic Front held a press conference on Monday in the Sheikh Zayed city desert to celebrate the seventh anniversary of the movement.Page text.\nSherif al-Rouby, spokesperson for the Democratic Front, told Al-Masry Al-Youm that the two fronts had to hold the press conference in the desert after security services canceled reservations made at a hall to hold the event.\nRouby added that they invited a limited number of journalists, fearing security interference, and that the two fronts agreed on uniting the political events they hold without being united themselves.\nDuring the conference, the movement declared a new strategy to deal with the government.\nLast month, a court upheld a previous verdict banning the April 6 group which used to be the main opponent against the rule of toppled President Hosni Mubarak.\nThe movement was formed upon calls for a general strike on April 6, 2008 in solidarity with protests from spinning and weaving workers in Mahalla city against price hikes and low wages.\nThe Egyptian interim president Adly Mansour, and regardless of the widespread critics,[34] approved a new law restricting protests on 24 November 2013.[35][36]\n\nThe law was nationally and internationally heavily criticized with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay urging the Egyptian government to amend it or repeal it.[37] UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon added his voice to those criticizing the law for leaving the door open to a very restrictive and repressive interpretation and urged the Egyptian authorities to consider amendments to the law \"to make sure that any laws passed are in full conformity with international human rights standards\".[38] Guy Verhofstadt, President of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Group (ALDE), the third largest group in the European Parliament, criticized the new lawThis anti-protest law is against everything the revolution was about. The Egyptian government should withdraw it.[39]\n\nOn 26 November, the No Military Trials for Civilians campaign organised a protest at the Shura Council in defiance of the protest law. The protest was violently dispersed by the police, and dozens of well-known activists were arrested.[40] The female activists were beaten and released on a desert road in the middle of the night,[41] while the 24 male detainees remained in custody; most of whom were released on bail a week later.[42]\n\nThe April 6 movement democratic front and maher front launched a campaign to annul the Egyptian protest law by a circulating a petition which citizens may sign to indicate approval for law's abolition or redrafting. Leading functionaries from various political factions who have signed the petition include the president of the Constitution Party, Hala Shukrallah, and Mohamed Ghonim, a key member of the Egyptian Social Democratic Party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "871012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=871012", "title": "Bar Kokhba revolt", "text": "Bar Kokhba revolt\n\nThe Bar Kokhba revolt (; \"Mered Bar Kokhba\") was a rebellion of the Jews of the Roman province of Judea, led by Simon bar Kokhba, against the Roman Empire. Fought circa 132–136 CE, it was the last of three major Jewish–Roman wars, so it is also known as The Third Jewish–Roman War or The Third Jewish Revolt. Some historians also refer to it as the Second Revolt of Judea, not counting the Kitos War (115–117 CE), which had only marginally been fought in Judea.\n\nThe revolt erupted as a result of ongoing religious and political tensions in Judea following on the failure of the First Revolt in 66−73 CE. These tensions were related to the establishment of a large Roman presence in Judea, changes in administrative life and the economy, together with the outbreak and suppression of Jewish revolts from Mesopotamia to Libya and Cyrenaica. The proximate reasons seem to centre around the construction of a new city, Aelia Capitolina, over the ruins of Jerusalem and the erection of a temple to Jupiter on the Temple Mount. The Church Fathers and rabbinic literature emphasize the role of Rufus, governor of Judea in provoking the revolt.\n\nIn 132, the revolt led by Bar Kokhba quickly spread from central Judea across the country, cutting off the Roman garrison in Aelia Capitolina (Jerusalem). Quintus Tineius Rufus was the provincial governor at the time of the erupting uprising, attributed with the failure to subdue its early phase. Rufus is last recorded in 132, the first year of the rebellion; whether he died or was replaced is uncertain. Despite arrival of significant Roman reinforcements from Syria, Egypt and Arabia, initial rebel victories over the Romans established an independent state over most parts of Judea Province for over two years, as Bar Kokhba took the title of Nasi (\"prince\"). Simon bar Kokhba, the commander of the revolt, was regarded by many Jews as the Messiah, who would restore their national independence. This setback, however, caused Emperor Hadrian to assemble a large scale Roman force from across the Empire, which invaded Judea in 134 under the command of General Sextus Julius Severus. The Roman army was made of six full legions with auxiliaries and elements from up to six additional legions, which finally managed to crush the revolt.\n\nThe Bar Kokhba revolt resulted in the extensive depopulation of Judean communities, more so than during the First Jewish–Roman War of 70 CE. According to Cassius Dio, 580,000 Jews perished in the war and many more died of hunger and disease. In addition, many Judean war captives were sold into slavery. The Jewish communities of Judea were devastated to an extent which some scholars describe as a genocide. However, the Jewish population remained strong in other parts of Palestine, thriving in Galilee, Golan, Bet Shean Valley and the eastern, southern and western edges of Judea. Roman casualties were also considered heavy - XXII \"Deiotariana\" was disbanded after serious losses. In addition, some historians argue that Legio IX Hispana's disbandment in the mid-2nd century could also have been a result of this war. In an attempt to erase any memory of Judea or Ancient Israel, Emperor Hadrian wiped the name off the map and replaced it with Syria Palaestina.\nHowever, there is only circumstantial evidence linking Hadrian with the name change and the precise date is not certain. The common view that the name change was intended to \"sever the connection of the Jews to their historical homeland\" is disputed.\n\nThe Bar Kokhba revolt greatly influenced the course of Jewish history and the philosophy of the Jewish religion. Despite easing the persecution of Jews following Hadrian's death in 138 CE, the Romans barred Jews from Jerusalem, except for attendance in Tisha B'Av. Jewish messianism was abstracted and spiritualized, and rabbinical political thought became deeply cautious and conservative. The Talmud, for instance, refers to Bar Kokhba as \"Ben-Kusiba,\" a derogatory term used to indicate that he was a false Messiah. It was also among the key events to differentiate Christianity as a religion distinct from Judaism. Although Jewish Christians regarded Jesus as the Messiah and did not support Bar Kokhba, they were barred from Jerusalem along with the other Jews.\n\nAfter the First Jewish–Roman War (66-73 CE), the Roman authorities took measures to suppress the rebellious province of Roman Judea. Instead of a procurator, they installed a praetor as a governor and stationed an entire legion, the X \"Fretensis\", in the area. Tensions continued to build up in the wake of the Kitos War, the second large-scale Jewish insurrection in the Eastern Mediterranean during 115-117, the final stages of which saw fighting in Judea. Mismanagement of the province during the early 2nd century might well have led to the proximate causes of the revolt, largely bringing governors with clear anti-Jewish sentiments to run the province. Gargilius Antiques may have preceded Rufus during the 120s. The Church Fathers and rabbinic literature emphasize the role of Rufus in provoking the revolt.\n\nHistorians have suggested multiple reasons for the sparking of the Bar Kokhba revolt, long-term and proximate. Several elements are believed to have contributed to the rebellion; changes in administrative law, the diffuse presence of Romans, alterations in agricultural practice with a shift from landowning to sharecropping, the impact of a possible period of economic decline, and an upsurge of nationalism, the latter influenced by similar revolts among the Jewish communities in Egypt, Cyrenaica and Mesopotamia during the reign of Trajan in the Kitos War. The proximate reasons seem to centre around the construction of a new city, Aelia Capitolina, over the ruins of Jerusalem and the erection of a temple to Jupiter on the Temple mount. One interpretation involves the visit in 130 CE of Hadrian to the ruins of the Jewish Temple in Jerusalem. At first sympathetic towards the Jews, Hadrian promised to rebuild the Temple, but the Jews felt betrayed when they found out that he intended to build a temple dedicated to Jupiter upon the ruins of the Second Temple. A rabbinic version of this story claims that Hadrian planned on rebuilding the Temple, but that a malevolent Samaritan convinced him not to. The reference to a malevolent Samaritan is, however, a familiar device of Jewish literature.\nAn additional legion, the VI \"Ferrata\", arrived in the province to maintain order. Works on Aelia Capitolina, as Jerusalem was to be called, commenced in 131 CE. The governor of Judea, Tineius Rufus, performed the foundation ceremony, which involved ploughing over the designated city limits. \"Ploughing up the Temple\", seen as a religious offence, turned many Jews against the Roman authorities. The Romans issued a coin inscribed \"Aelia Capitolina\".\n\nA disputed tradition, based on the single source of the \"Historia Augusta\", regarded as 'unreliable and problematic,' states tensions rose after Hadrian banned circumcision, referred to as \"mutilare genitalia \" taken to mean \"brit milah\". Were the claim true it has been conjectured that Hadrian, as a Hellenist, would have viewed circumcision as an undesirable form of mutilation. The claim is often considered suspect.\n\nJewish leaders carefully planned the second revolt to avoid the numerous mistakes that had plagued the first Great Jewish Revolt sixty years earlier. In 132, the revolt, led by Simon bar Kokhba and Elasar, quickly spread from Modi'in across the country, cutting off the Roman garrison in Jerusalem. Although Rufus was in charge during the early phase of the uprising, he disappears from the record after 132 for unknown reasons. Shortly after the eruption of the revolt, Bar Kokhba's rebels inflicted heavy casualties to Legio X Fretensis, based in Aelia Capitolina (Jerusalem). At that point, Legio VI Ferrata was sent to reinforce the Roman position from Legio base in Yizrael Valley, fielding altogether some 20,000 Roman troops, but was unable to subdue the rebels, who nearly conquered Jerusalem.\n\nGiven the continuing inability of Legio X and Legio VI to subdue the rebels, additional reinforcements were dispatched from neighbouring provinces. Gaius Publicus Marcellus, the Legate of Roman Syria, arrived commanding Legio III Gallica, while Titus Haterius Nepos, the governor of Roman Arabia, brought Legio III Cyrenaica. Later on it is assumed that Legio XXII Deiotariana was sent from Arabia Petraea, but was ambushed and massacred on its way to Aelia Capitolina (Jerusalem), possibly disbanding as a result. Legio II Traiana Fortis, previously stationed in Egypt, may have also arrived in Judea in this stage. By that time the number of Roman troops stood at nearly 80,000 in the area, a number still inferior to rebel forces, who were also better familiar with the terrain and occupied strong fortifications.\n\nMany Jews from the diaspora made their way to Judea to join Bar Kokhba's forces from the beginning of the rebellion, with the traditional assumption being that hard tests were imposed on recruits due to the inflated number of volunteers. From some documents evidence was also found for non-Jews enlisting in Bar Kokhba's forces, though it is not conclusive. According to Jewish sources some 400,000 men were at the disposal of Bar Kokhba at the peak of the rebellion, though historians tend to more conservative numbers of 200,000.\n\nThe outbreak and initial success of the rebellion took the Romans by surprise. The rebels incorporated combined tactics to fight the Roman Army. According to some historians, Bar Kokhba's army mostly practiced guerrilla warfare, inflicting heavy casualties. This view is largely supported by Cassius Dio, who wrote that the revolt began with covert attacks in line with preparation of hideout systems, though after taking over the fortresses Bar Kokhba turned to direct engagement due to his superiority in numbers. Only after several painful defeats in the field did the Romans decide to avoid open conflict and instead methodically besiege individual Judean cities.\n\nSimon Bar Kokhba took the title \"Nasi Israel\" and ruled over an entity that was virtually independent for two and a half years. The Jewish sage Rabbi Akiva identified Simon Bar Kosiba as the Jewish messiah, and gave him the surname \"Bar Kokhba\" meaning \"Son of a Star\" in the Aramaic language, from the Star Prophecy verse from Numbers : \"There shall come a star out of Jacob\". The name Bar Kokhba does not appear in the Talmud but in ecclesiastical sources. The era of the redemption of Israel was announced, contracts were signed and a large quantity of Bar Kokhba Revolt coinage was struck over foreign coins.\n\nWith the slowly advancing Roman army cutting supply lines, the rebels engaged in long-term defense. The defense system of Judean towns and villages was based mainly on hideout caves, which were created in large numbers in almost every population center. Many houses utilized underground hideouts, where Judean rebels hoped to withstand Roman superiority by the narrowness of the passages and even ambushes from underground. The cave systems were often interconnected and used not only as hideouts for the rebels but also for storage and refuge for their families. Hideout systems were employed in the Judean hills, the Judean desert, northern Negev, and to some degree also in Galilee, Samaria and Jordan Valley. As of July 2015 some 350 hideout systems have been mapped within the ruins of 140 Jewish villages.\n\nFollowing a series of setbacks, Hadrian called his general Sextus Julius Severus from Britain, and troops were brought from as far as the Danube. In 133/4, Severus landed in Judea with a massive army, bringing 3 Legions from Europe (including Legio X Gemina and possibly also Legio IX Hispana), cohorts of additional legions and between 30 and 50 auxiliary units. He took the title of provincial governor and initiated a massive campaign to systematically subdue Judean rebel forces. Severus' arrival almost doubled the number of Roman troops facing the rebels.\n\nThe size of the Roman army amassed against the rebels was much larger than that commanded by Titus sixty years earlier - nearly one third of the Roman army took part in the campaign against Bar Kokhba. It is estimated that forces from at least 10 Legions participated in Severus' campaign in Judea, including Legio X Fretensis, Legio VI Ferrata, Legio III Gallica, Legio III Cyrenaica, Legio II Traiana Fortis, Legio X Gemina, cohorts of Legio V Macedonica, cohorts of Legio XI Claudia, cohorts of Legio XII Fulminata and cohorts of Legio IV Flavia Felix, along with 30-50 auxiliary units, for a total force of 60,000–120,000 Roman soldiers facing Bar Kokhba's rebels. As noted above, it is plausible that Legio IX Hispana was among the legions Severus brought with him, and that its demise occurred during Severus' campaign, as its disappearance during the second century is often attributed to this war.\n\nAccording to some views, one of the crucial battles of the war took place near Tel Shalem in the Beit She'an valley, near what is now identified as the legionary camp of Legio VI Ferrata. Next to the camp, archaeologists have unearthed the remnants of a triumphal arch, which featured a dedication to Emperor Hadrian, which most likely refers to the defeat of Bar Kokhba's army. Additional finds at Tel Shalem, including a bust of Emperor Hadrian, specifically link the site to the period. The theory for a major battle in Tel Shalem implies a significant extension of the area of the rebellion - while some historians confine the conflict to Judea proper, the location of Tel Shalem suggests that the war encompassed the northern Jordan Valley as well, some 50 km north of the war's minimal boundaries.\n\nSimon bar Kokhba declared Herodium as his secondary headquarters. Archaeological evidence for the revolt was found all over the site, from the outside buildings to the water system under the mountain. Inside the water system, supporting walls built by the rebels were discovered, and another system of caves was found. Inside one of the caves, burned wood was found which was dated to the time of the revolt. The fortress was besieged by the Romans in late 134 and was taken by the end of the year or early in 135. Its commander was Yeshua ben Galgula, likely Bar Kokhba's second in command.\n\nThe last phase of the revolt is characterized by Bar Kokhba's loss of territorial control, with the exception of the surroundings of the Betar fortress, where he made his last stand against the Romans. The Roman Army had meanwhile turned to eradicate smaller fortresses and hideout systems of captured villages, turning the conquest into a campaign of annihilation.\n\nAfter losing many of their strongholds, Bar Kokhba and the remnants of his army withdrew to the fortress of Betar, which subsequently came under siege in the summer of 135. Legio V Macedonica and Legio XI Claudia are said to have taken part in the siege. According to Jewish tradition, the fortress was breached and destroyed on the fast of Tisha B'av, the ninth day of the lunar month Av, a day of mourning for the destruction of the First and the Second Jewish Temple. Rabbinical literature ascribes the defeat to Bar Kokhba killing his maternal uncle, Rabbi Elazar Hamudaʻi, after suspecting him of collaborating with the enemy, thereby forfeiting Divine protection. The horrendous scene after the city's capture could be best described as a massacre. The Jerusalem Talmud relates that the number of dead in Betar was enormous, that the Romans \"went on killing until their horses were submerged in blood to their nostrils.\"\nAccording to a Rabbinic midrash, the Romans executed eight leading members of the Sanhedrin (The list of Ten Martyrs include two earlier Rabbis): R. Akiva; R. Hanania ben Teradion; the interpreter of the Sanhedrin, R. Huspith; R. Eliezer ben Shamua; R. Hanina ben Hakinai; R. Jeshbab the Scribe; R. Yehuda ben Dama; and R. Yehuda ben Baba. The Rabbinic account describes agonizing tortures: R. Akiva was flayed with iron combs, R. Ishmael had the skin of his head pulled off slowly, and R. Hanania was burned at a stake, with wet wool held by a Torah scroll wrapped around his body to prolong his death. Bar Kokhba's fate is not certain, with two alternative traditions in the Babylonian Talmud ascribing the death of Bar Kokhba either to a snake bite or other natural causes during the Roman siege or possibly killed on the orders of the Sanhedrin, as a false Messiah. According to Lamentations Rabbah, the head of Bar Kokhba was presented to Emperor Hadrian after the Siege of Betar.\n\nFollowing the Fall of Betar, the Roman forces went on a rampage of systematic killing, eliminating all remaining Jewish villages in the region and seeking out the refugees. Legio III Cyrenaica was the main force to execute this last phase of the campaign. Historians disagree on the duration of the Roman campaign following the fall of Betar. While some claim further resistance was broken quickly, others argue that pockets of Jewish rebels continued to hide with their families into the winter months of late 135 and possibly even spring 136. By early 136 however, it is clear that the revolt was defeated.\n\nAccording to Cassius Dio, 580,000 Jews were killed in the overall operations, and 50 fortified towns and 985 villages were razed to the ground, with many more Jews dying of famine and disease. The Jewish communities of Judea were devastated to an extent which some scholars describe as a genocide. Schäfer suggests that Dio exaggerated his numbers. On the other hand, Cotton considered Dio's figures highly plausible, in light of accurate Roman census declarations. In addition, many Judean war captives were sold into slavery.\n\nThe revolt was led by the Judean Pharisees, with other Jewish and non-Jewish factions also playing a role. Jewish communities of Galilee who sent militants to the revolt in Judea were largely spared total destruction, though they did suffer persecutions and massive executions. Samaria partially supported the revolt, with evidence accumulating that notable numbers of Samaritan youths participated in Bar Kokhba's campaigns; though Roman wrath was directed at Samaritans, their cities were also largely spared from the total destruction unleashed on Judea. Eusebius of Caesarea wrote that Jewish Christians were killed and suffered \"all kinds of persecutions\" at the hands of rebel Jews when they refused to help Bar Kokhba against the Roman troops. The Greco-Roman population of the region also suffered severely during the early stage of the revolt, persecuted by Bar Kokhba's forces.\n\nCassius Dio also wrote: \"Many Romans, moreover, perished in this war. Therefore, Hadrian, in writing to the Senate, did not employ the opening phrase commonly affected by the emperors: 'If you and your children are in health, it is well; I and the army are in health.'\" Some argue that the exceptional number of preserved Roman veteran diplomas from the late 150s and 160 CE indicate an unprecedented conscription across the Roman Empire to replenish heavy losses within military legions and auxilary units between 133 to 135, corresponding to the revolt.\n\nAs noted above, XXII \"Deiotariana\" was disbanded after serious losses. In addition, as also noted above, some historians argue that Legio IX Hispana's disbandment in the mid-2nd century could have been a result of this war. Previously it had generally been accepted that the Ninth disappeared around 108 CE, possibly suffering its demise in Britain, according to Mommsen; but archaeological findings in 2015 from Nijmegen, dated to 121 CE, contained the known inscriptions of two senior officers who were deputy commanders of the Ninth in 120 CE, and lived on for several decades to lead distinguished public careers. It was concluded that the Legion was disbanded between 120 and 197 CE - either as a result of fighting the Bar Kokhba revolt, or in Cappadocia (161), or at the Danube (162). Legio X Fretensis sustained heavy casualties during the revolt.\n\nAfter the suppression of the revolt, Hadrian's proclamations sought to root out Jewish nationalism in Judea, which he saw as the cause of the repeated rebellions. He prohibited Torah law and the Hebrew calendar, and executed Judaic scholars. The sacred scrolls of Judaism were ceremonially burned on the Temple Mount. At the former Temple sanctuary, he installed two statues, one of Jupiter, another of himself. In an attempt to erase any memory of Judea or Ancient Israel, he wiped the name off the map and replaced it with Syria Palaestina. By destroying the association of Jews with Judea and forbidding the practice of the Jewish faith, Hadrian aimed to root out a nation that had inflicted heavy casualties on the Roman Empire. Similarly, he re-established Jerusalem as the Roman pagan polis of Aelia Capitolina, with Jews forbidden to enter, except on the day of Tisha B'Av.\nModern historians view the Bar Kokhba Revolt as having decisive historic importance. They note that, unlike the aftermath of the First Jewish–Roman War chronicled by Josephus, the Jewish population of Judea was devastated after the Bar Kokhba Revolt, being killed, exiled, or sold into slavery, and Jewish religious and political authority was suppressed far more brutally than before. The Jews suffered a serious blow in Jerusalem and its environs in Judea, but the Jewish communities thrived in the remaining regions of Palestine—e.g., Galilee, Bet Shean, Caesarea, Golan and along the edges of Judea The massive destruction and death in the course of the revolt has led scholars such as Bernard Lewis to date the beginning of the Jewish diaspora from this date. Hadrian's death in 138 CE marked a significant relief to the surviving Jewish communities. Some of the Judean survivors resettled in Galilee, with some rabbinical families gathering in Sepphoris. Rabbinic Judaism had already become a portable religion, centered around synagogues.\nJudea would not be a center of Jewish religious, cultural, or political life again until the modern era, although Jews continued to sporadically populate it and important religious developments still took place there. Galilee became an important center of Rabbinic Judaism, where the Jerusalem Talmud was compiled in the 4th-5th centuries CE. In the aftermath of the defeat, the maintenance of Jewish settlement in Palestine became a major concern of the rabbinate. The Sages endeavoured to halt Jewish dispersal, and even banned emigration from Palestine, branding those who settled outside its borders as idolaters.\n\nRelations between the Jews in the region and the Roman Empire continued to be complicated. Constantine I allowed Jews to mourn their defeat and humiliation once a year on Tisha B'Av at the Western Wall. In 351–352 CE, the Jews of Galilee launched yet another revolt, provoking heavy retribution. The Gallus revolt came during the rising influence of early Christians in the Eastern Roman Empire, under the Constantinian dynasty. In 355, however, the relations with the Roman rulers improved, upon the rise of Emperor Julian, the last of the Constantinian dynasty, who, unlike his predecessors, defied Christianity. In 363, not long before Julian left Antioch to launch his campaign against Sassanian Persia, he ordered the Jewish Temple rebuilt in his effort to foster religions other than Christianity. The failure to rebuild the Temple has mostly been ascribed to the dramatic Galilee earthquake of 363, and traditionally also to the Jews' ambivalence about the project. Sabotage is a possibility, as is an accidental fire, though Christian historians of the time ascribed it to divine intervention. Julian's support of Judaism caused Jews to call him \"Julian the Hellene\". Julian's fatal wound in the Persian campaign put an end to Jewish aspirations, and Julian's successors embraced Christianity through the entirety of Byzantine rule of Jerusalem, preventing any Jewish claims.\n\nIn 438 CE, when the Empress Eudocia removed the ban on Jews' praying at the Temple site, the heads of the Community in Galilee issued a call \"to the great and mighty people of the Jews\" which began: \"Know that the end of the exile of our people has come!\" However the Christian population of the city saw this as a threat to their primacy, and a riot erupted which chased Jews from the city.\n\nDuring the 5th and the 6th centuries, a series of Samaritan revolts broke out across the Palaestina Prima province. Especially violent were the third and the fourth revolts, which resulted in near annihilation of the Samaritan community. It is likely that the Samaritan revolt of 556 was joined by the Jewish community, which had also suffered brutal suppression of their religion under Emperor Justianian.\n\nIn the belief of restoration to come, in the early 7th century the Jews made an alliance with the Persians, joining the Persian invasion of Palaestina Prima in 614 to overwhelm the Byzantine garrison, and gaining autonomous rule over Jerusalem. However, their autonomy was brief: the Jewish leader was shortly assassinated during a Christian revolt and, though Jerusalem was reconquered by Persians and Jews within 3 weeks, it fell into anarchy. With the subsequent withdrawal of Persian forces, Jews surrendered to the Byzantines in 625 CE or 628 CE, but were massacred by Christian radicals in 629 CE, with the survivors fleeing to Egypt. Byzantine control of the region was finally lost to Muslim Arab armies in 637 CE, when Umar ibn al-Khattab completed the conquest of Akko.\n\nIn the post-rabbinical era, the Bar Kokhba Revolt became a symbol of valiant national resistance. The Zionist youth movement Betar took its name from Bar Kokhba's traditional last stronghold, and David Ben-Gurion, Israel's first prime minister, took his Hebrew last name from one of Bar Kokhba's generals.\n\nThe disastrous end of the revolt also occasioned major changes in Jewish religious thought. Jewish messianism was abstracted and spiritualized, and rabbinical political thought became deeply cautious and conservative. The Talmud, for instance, refers to Bar Kokhba as \"Ben-Kusiba,\" a derogatory term used to indicate that he was a false Messiah. The deeply ambivalent rabbinical position regarding Messianism, as expressed most famously in Maimonides \"Epistle to Yemen,\" would seem to have its origins in the attempt to deal with the trauma of a failed Messianic uprising.\n\nA popular children's song, included in the curriculum of Israeli kindergartens, has the refrain \"Bar Kokhba was a Hero/He fought for Liberty,\" and its words describe Bar Kokhba as being captured and thrown into a lion's den, but managing to escape riding on the lion's back.\n\nIt is generally accepted that the Bar Kokhba revolt encompassed all of Judea, namely the villages of the Judean hills, the Judean desert, and northern parts of the Negev desert. The minimalistic approach limits the borders of the war to these areas, but there are also significant findings which may support a wider view of the extent of the revolt. Among those findings are the rebel hideout systems in the Galilee, which greatly resemble the Bar Kokhba hideouts in Judea, and though are less numerous, are nevertheless important. Several historians theorize that the Tel Shalem arch depicted a major battle between Roman armies and Bar Kokhba's rebels in Bet Shean valley, thus extending the battle areas some 50 km northwards from Judea. The 2013 discovery of the military camp of Legio VI Ferrata near Tel Megiddo, and ongoing excavations there may shed light to extension of the rebellion to the northern valleys. A 2015 archaeological survey in Samaria identified some 40 hideout cave systems from the period, some containing Bar Kokhba's minted coins, suggesting that the war raged in Samaria at high intensity. There is also evidence to support war operations on the coastal plain and as far as Transjordan. The fact that Galilee retained its Jewish character after the end of the revolt has been taken as an indication by some that either the revolt was never joined by Galilee or that the rebellion was crushed relatively early there compared to Judea.\n\nUntil 1951, Bar Kokhba Revolt coinage was the sole archaeological evidence for dating the revolt. These coins include references to \"Year One of the redemption of Israel\", \"Year Two of the freedom of Israel\", and \"For the freedom of Jerusalem\". Despite the reference to Jerusalem, recent archaeological finds, and the lack of revolt coinage found in Jerusalem, supports the view that the revolt did not capture Jerusalem.\n\nThe revolt is mostly still shrouded in mystery, and only one brief historical account of the rebellion survives. The best recognized source for the revolt is Cassius Dio, \"Roman History\" (book 69), even though the writings of the Roman historian concerning the Bar Kokhba revolt survived only as fragments. The Jerusalem Talmud contains descriptions of the results of the rebellion, including the Roman executions of Judean leaders. The discovery of the Cave of Letters in the Dead Sea area, dubbed as \"Bar Kokhba archive\", which contained letters actually written by Bar Kokhba and his followers, has added much new primary source data, indicating among other things that there was a pronounced foreign contingent among Bar Kokhba's forces, accounted for by the fact that his military correspondence was, in part, conducted in Greek. Several more brief sources have been uncovered in the area over the past century, including references to the revolt from Nabatea and Roman Syria. Roman inscriptions in Tel Shalem, Betar fortress, Jerusalem and other locations also contribute to the current historical understanding of the Bar Kokhba War.\n\nThe Cave of Letters was surveyed in explorations conducted in 1960-61, when letters and fragments of papyri were found dating back to the period of the Bar Kokhba revolt. Some of these were personal letters between Bar Kokhba and his subordinates, and one notable bundle of papyri, known as the Babata or Babatha cache, revealed the life and trials of a woman, Babata, who lived during this period.\n\nIn 2014, one half of a Latin inscription was discovered in Jerusalem during excavations near the Damascus Gate. It was identified as the right half of a complete inscription, the other part of which was discovered nearby in the late 19th century and is currently on display in the courtyard of Jerusalem's Studium Biblicum Franciscanum Museum. The complete inscription was translated as follows:\nThe inscription was dedicated by Legio X Fretensis to the emperor Hadrian in the year 129/130 CE. The inscription is considered to greatly strengthen the claim that indeed the Emperor visited Jerusalem that year, supporting the traditional claim that Hadrian's visit was among the main causes of the Bar Kokhba Revolt, and not the other way around.\n\nThe ruins of Betar, the last fortress of Bar Kokhba, destroyed by Hadrian's legions in 135 CE, is located in the vicinity of the towns of Battir and Beitar Illit. A stone inscription bearing Latin characters and discovered near Betar shows that the Fifth Macedonian Legion and the Eleventh Claudian Legion took part in the siege.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43979217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43979217", "title": "Chan Kin-man", "text": "Chan Kin-man\n\nChan Kin-man (, born 1959 in Hong Kong) is an associate professor of Sociology the Chinese University of Hong Kong. He is one of the founders of Occupy Central with Love and Peace Campaign that strives for universal suffrage for Hong Kong Chief Executive Election in 2017.\n\nIn his undergraduate days, Chan was an avid reader and a passionate student activist. In 1983, he graduated from the Department of Sociology of CUHK, and began participating in community work for several years. By walking with the marginal communities, Chan experienced the multitude of social problems, and vowed to push for reforms on the consciousness and institutional levels.\n\nSince 1993, he has been teaching at the Department of Sociology at CUHK, and will be retiring in 2019. Chan enjoys teaching, and has been honoured as the best lecturer by university and student organizations on multiple occasions. On the other hand, his research interests and social participation concern the development of civil societies and democracy in Chinese communities.\n\nOver the years in Mainland China and Hong Kong, he has served various positions in the public services, and set up a number of non-governmental organizations. He is currently the director of the Hong Kong Civil Education Foundation and member of the executive committee of the Hong Kong Democratic Development Network. In March, 2013, Chan, together with Benny Tai and Chu Yiu-ming, initiated the nonviolent civil disobedience campaign “Occupy Central with Love and Peace”, to call for universal suffrage in Hong Kong, which sowed the seeds for the now globally-known Umbrella Movement in 2014.\n\nChan graduated from Concordia Lutheran Middle School in 1979, and earned a degree of Bachelor of Social Science in Sociology of the Chinese University of Hong Kong in 1983, and Master of Arts, Master of Philosophy and Doctor of Philosophy in Sociology of Yale University in 1990, 1991 and 1995 respectively.\n\nChan was a member of Chung Chi College of the Chinese University of Hong Kong. He was actively involved in student movements, and served in the Student Union of the Chinese University of Hong Kong as the external secretary, alongside notable alumni Andy Ho On-tat and Ricky Wong Wai-kay. After graduating from university in 1983, Chan committed to community work to promote the rights of the marginalized.\n\nIn 1988, Chan received a scholarship to attend Yale University. He studied political Sociology and China studies under the supervision of political scientist Juan J. Linz and sociologist Deborah Davis. He completed his Master of Arts, Master of Philosophy and Doctor of Philosophy in Sociology at Yale in 1990, 1991 and 1995 respectively.\n\nIn 1993, Chan began teaching at the Sociology Department of the Chinese University of Hong Kong. He is now an associate professor of Sociology and lecturer in Liberal Studies at Shaw College. He was formerly the director of Hong Kong Institute of Asia-Pacific Studies and the director of the Centre for Civil Society Studies. Beyond CUHK, Chan had been a visiting professor, PhD supervisor and chair of the Institute for Civil Society at the Sun Yat-sen University in China, also a researcher at the National Chengchi University in Taiwan.\n\nChan has received multiple teaching awards from the Chinese University of Hong Kong, including the 1999-2000 Exemplary Teaching Award, 1997-1998 Most Popular Lecturer (Sociology Department), and 1995-1996 Best Lecturer (General Education and Elective Courses).\n\nChan writes about Hong Kong’s democracy issues in Hong Kong newspaper \"Ming Pao\", and \"Civil Society\", a magazine of the Sun Yat-sen University that concerns China’s NGO environment. He used to be a guest host of the RTHK current affairs program. Chan was an independent non-executive directors of the Hong Kong Television Network Limited until July 2013.\n\nDuring his early career, Chan focused on corruption issues in China. In recent years, his research focus has shifted to the development of Chinese civil society. He believes that improvements in China’s governance can only take place if there is a balanced development of the government, economy and civil society.\n\nHe once made a statement in 2014: “While it is important to supervise and reform the systems of the chief executive and the legislature, yet more has to be done if we want to establish a real democratic system. A healthy democracy requires support from a strong civil society.”\n\nChan has served as a member on the Community Research Sub-committee of the Independent Commission Against Corruption, and the Committee on Promoting Acceptance of People Living with HIV/AIDS of the Hong Kong Advisory Council on AIDS.\n\nIn 2002, he co-founded civil society group Hong Kong Democratic Development Network with the Reverend Chu Yiu-ming and others. He is the convener of the scholar committee of the Network.\n\nOn March 27, 2013, Chan, HKU law professor Benny Tai and the Reverend Chu Yiu-ming issued a public statement on “Occupy Central with Love and Peace,” announcing the start of the nonviolent campaign for universal suffrage rights in Hong Kong.\n\nAfter the end of the Umbrella Movement, in February 2015, Chan said in an interview: “The younger generation understands the difference between genuine and fake universal suffrage, and the moral power of nonviolence, at the same time, their life energy evolved, and seek for more aggressive resistance. Not all of them agree with the principle of ‘love and peace’, when faced with the choice between civil disobedience and war games. They want radical structural changes, and not just a lesson on civic education. They want equality, mutual respect, being heard, dialogue, democracy, freedom and autonomy. They despise hegemony, corporate greed, bureaucracy, kitsch and selfishness. They believe that they will lose everything, if they make any sort of compromise. \n\nA poll by the Chinese University of Hong Kong noted 80 percent of the young respondents want to see the implementation of universal suffrage as soon as possible, and as many as 62 percent of those aged between 15 and 24, supported the Umbrella Movement. The pro-government camp will not get what they want, and the real loser will be the government, because no one can destroy an entire generation.  \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7819720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7819720", "title": "Comilla Model", "text": "Comilla Model\n\nThe Comilla Model was a rural development programme launched in 1959 by the Pakistan Academy for Rural Development (renamed in 1971 the Bangladesh Academy for Rural Development). The Academy, which is located on the outskirts of Comilla town, was founded by Akhter Hameed Khan, the cooperative pioneer who was responsible for developing and launching the programme.\n\nWhile the results of the Model ultimately frustrated Khan's ambitions, it has important implications for rural community development, particularly cooperative microfinance and microcredit\n\nThe Comilla Model was Khan's reply to the failure of \"Village Agricultural and Industrial Development\" (V-AID) programme, launched in 1953 in East and West Pakistan with technical assistance from the US government. The V-AID was a governmental level attempt to promote citizens participation in the sphere of rural development.\n\nKhan argued that for Comilla to develop rapidly, the farmers in its villages must be able to rapidly expand their production and sales. The main constraint they faced was inadequate local infrastructure, especially roads, drains, embankments and irrigation. However, even if the government had the resources to build this infrastructure, Khan argued, the problem would not be solved. Once constructed, infrastructure must be regularly maintained. The benefits of it must be managed effectively based on rules that users could accept and predict. Khan thought that view it was essential to develop 'vigorous local institutions' capable of performing this type of local maintenance and management.\n\nFor that reason, the Comilla Model piloted a methodology for stimulating agricultural and rural development, based on the principle of grassroots cooperative participation by the people. Khan found inspiration for the cooperative development aspect of his model from German cooperative pioneer Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen, whose rural credit unions had been an early example of institution-building in predominantly non-literate communities.\n\nTo simultaneously address problems caused by the inadequacy of both local infrastructure and local institutions, the Model integrated four distinct components in every \"thana\" (sub-district) where it was implemented:\n\n\nConsiderable emphasis was placed on distribution of agricultural inputs and extension services, for example by helping farmers to grow potatoes in the sandy Comilla soil, and using cold storage technology.\n\nAnother key implementation challenge, Dr. Khan wrote, was to ensure that the four programs grew stronger at the same time in a mutually supporting way. In particular,\n\nIn the villages, the Academy introduced a number of pilot projects beginning in 1959. These pilot projects were guided by two goals: first, to provide a real-life learning situation for its trainees; and second, to devise pilot programmes and institutions which could serve as models capable of replication. In guiding and operating the projects, a set of principles and strategies were formulated as the bases for developing the pilot projects, resulting in a unique rural development approach.\n\nThe main features of the Comilla Model were:\n\n\nFor various reasons the \"Comilla Model\" was unable to achieve its goal. It had particular troubles with government relations and efforts to build strong cooperative institutions. According to Dr Khan:\n\nEscalating loan defaults became a particularly important concern, undermining the hope that the cooperatives would become self-reliant and develop into strong institutions. Dr. Khan reported that influential local people had secured management positions in the cooperatives. \"They are powerful and well informed. They know that the old sanctions (certificates, notices, pressure by officers) are now dead, and they can repudiate their obligations with impunity.\" In addition, the new government annulled loans issued by its pre-independence predecessor.\n\nChowdhury reports that by 1979 only 61 of the 400 cooperatives were still functioning. He attributes this result to four factors: fraud/lack of internal controls, stagnation, diversion of funds, and ineffective external supervision. The central problem of fraud and weak controls \"was possible not only because of individual dishonesty, but because the people were not made aware of their rights, and were not in a position to voice their rights ...\"\n\nAt the same time, there were difficulties with government relations made more difficult by the departure of Khan for Pakistan.\n\nComilla Model provided an experience to be profited by later practitioners. In the early years of BRAC (NGO) and Grameen Bank in the 1970s, both Dr. Muhammad Yunus and Fazle Hasan Abed tested cooperative approaches to delivering credit to poor people. They concluded that the cooperative strategy could not work in rural Bangladesh. Instead, both directly targeted the poorest people, while attempting to keep out those who were not poor.\n\nDowla & Barua recently summarised the thinking at Grameen Bank:\nLater cooperative development initiatives in Bangladesh, like RD-12 and the Swanirvar (‘self-reliance’) Movement also adopted a targeting strategy.\n\nBoth Yunus and Abed also attempted to catalyse collective enterprises that were locally owned and controlled. However, problems with internal control and elite manipulation continued, and by the 1990s Grameen and BRAC, along with all the main microfinance NGOs in Bangladesh, had abandoned cooperative approaches and developed highly centralised control and service delivery structures.\n\nThe merits of poverty-targeting continue to stimulate debate in microfinance. While many microcredit institutions have adopted poverty-targeting, most cooperatives reject it. The 1st principle in the Statement on the Co-operative Identity affirms that cooperatives are open to all persons in a community. Poverty-targeting is seen as 'reverse discrimination' on the basis of social or economic status.\n\nIn this view, the main problem with the Comilla Model was that it neglected the 4th cooperative principle: independence from government. This neglect is clearly visible in the Khan's initial design of the Model, since the cooperatives were conceived of as an instrument for maintaining public infrastructure, and were dependent on the delivery of government extension services and credit for their success. Cooperatives however, have fallen prey to elite capture in many oral communities, and in less densely populated nations than Bangladesh, it still proves challenging to deliver microfinance to them.\n\n"}
{"id": "27991691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27991691", "title": "Conference of Youth and Students of Southeast Asia Fighting for Freedom and Independence", "text": "Conference of Youth and Students of Southeast Asia Fighting for Freedom and Independence\n\nThe Conference of Youth and Students of Southeast Asia Fighting for Freedom and Independence, also referred to as the Southeast Asian Youth Conference, was an international youth and students event held in Calcutta, India on February 19–23, 1948. It was co-organized by the World Federation of Democratic Youth and the International Union of Students. It has often been claimed that the conference was the starting point for a series of armed communist rebellions in different Asian countries.\n\nIn 1947, a four-member delegation of WFDY travelled through different Asian countries. The delegation consisted of Olga Chechetkina (Soviet Union, journalist specialized in Southeast Asian affairs), Jean Lautissier, Rajko Tomović (Yugoslavia) and M. O. Oleson (Denmark). The purpose of the fact-finding tour was to survey the colonial situation and establish links with Asian youth movements. The mission had initially been scheduled for 1946, but delayed due to the conflict in Vietnam and the refusal of French authorities to issue permits for the delegation to enter Vietnam.\n\nThe delegation arrived in India in February 1947. They made contacts with different delegations that attended the Inter-Asian Relations Conference in Delhi. In Delhi, they discussed with Indonesian representatives the possibility of holding a pan-Asian youth conference in Indonesia in November 1947. In May, the WFDY team visited Indonesia and met with several high-ranking leaders (such as Sukarno, Hatta, etc.). In June 1947 the WFDY executive decided to go ahead with the plans, but limit the scope of the conference to Southeastern Asia. The Indonesians began preparations to host the conference in Madiun. However, in July 1947 (following the World Festival of Youth and Students), the WFDY executive decided to move the conference to Calcutta and postpone it to February 1948, as Indonesia was considered unsafe after Dutch attacks. The decision greatly disappointed the prospective Indonesian hosts.\n\nThe conference was attended by delegations from Burma, China, Ceylon, India, Indonesia, Malaya, Nepal, Pakistan, the Philippines, the Soviet Union and Vietnam. Indian organizations present included the All India Trade Union Congress, the All India Students Federation, the All India Kisan Sabha, the Socialist Unity Centre of India, the Andhra Youth Federation and a sector of the All India Students Congress.\n\nMalaya was represented by Lee Song. The Indonesian delegation consisted of two persons, Francisca C. Fanggidaej and Supeno. From Pakistan the Pakistan Federation of Democratic Youth was represented, amongst others. The Soviet delegation consisted of Central Asians, amongst whom there were no high-ranking officials. Jean Lautissier was the main WFDY representative at the Conference.\n\nMost of the participating delegates at the Conference were non-communists. From India there was a delegation of the youth of the Indian National Congress, and from Burma a delegation from the AFPFL youth. Both of these delegations reacted sharply to statements condemning 'sham independence' in India and Burma, and left the Conference in protest. Pro-Congress elements attacked a house where a reception was held for the Soviet delegation to the Conference. Two Indian youth leaders, Sushil Mukhopadhyay and Bhabamadhav Ghosh, were killed in the attack.\n\nA mass rally, with around 30,000 participants, was held in connection with the Conference. In the rally a Chinese delegate carried aloft a blood-stained shirt, from a Chinese communist fighter who had been killed in battle.\n\nThe conference was held in the same month as the second congress of the Communist Party of India, which also took place in Calcutta. Some historians argue that these two events were utilized by the Cominform (then a newly founded body) to organize a large-scale armed communist rebellion across Asia. Sir Francis Low writes (in \"Struggle for Asia\") that \"[t]he signal for action was given by the so-called South-East Asian Youth \nConference which met in Calcutta in 1948 and was in reality a gathering of international Communist agents. There issued from the meeting a programme for insurrection and civil war which was carried, with dire results, to all the countries of South-East Asia.\" \"Time\" magazine wrote in October 1948 that \"[t]he new plan was devised last March. Communist delegates attended a \"Southeast Asia Youth Conference\" in Calcutta. A planeload of experts from Moscow came to give them their orders. ... After Words, Deeds. The plan worked out at Calcutta called for simultaneous revolts in Burma and Malaya. Three months after the outbreak of the Malayan revolt, Indonesia's Communists were to strike. As coordination center for the drive a 26-man Soviet Legation, largest in Southeast Asia, was set up in Bangkok.\"\n\nHowever, Bertil Lintner argues that there is no proof of any direct linkage between the Conference as such and the initiations of armed insurgencies in different Asian countries. Ruth McVey states that whilst the Conference was the first public meeting of Southeast Asian communists after the Soviet declaration of the two-camp theory (that the world was divided into two camps, imperialism and socialism, and that confrontation between the two was unevitable), Asian communist were already aware of the new line prior to the Calcutta meeting. The Communist Party of India had adopted the new line of confrontation in December 1947. Mari Olsen claims that it is unclear if the Calcutta conference would have been used to convey Soviet directives to Asian communists, as there were no senior Soviet representatives present.\n"}
{"id": "1501968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1501968", "title": "Corporate transparency", "text": "Corporate transparency\n\nCorporate transparency describes the extent to which a corporation's actions are observable by outsiders. This is a consequence of regulation, local norms, and the set of information, privacy, and business policies concerning corporate decision-making and operations openness to employees, stakeholders, shareholders and the general public. From the perspective of outsiders, transparency can be defined simply as the perceived quality of intentionally shared information from the corporation. \n\nRecent research suggests there are three primary dimensions of corporate transparency: information disclosure, clarity, and accuracy. To increment transparency, corporations infuse greater disclosure, clarity, and accuracy into their communications with stakeholders. For example, governance decisions to voluntarily share information related to the firm's ecological impact with environmental activists indicate disclosure; decisions to actively limit the use of technical terminology, fine print, or complicated mathematical notations in the firm's correspondence with suppliers and customers indicate clarity; and decisions to not bias, embellish, or otherwise distort known facts in the firm's communications with investors indicate accuracy. The \"strategic\" management of transparency therefore involves intentional modifications in disclosure, clarity, and accuracy to accomplish the firm's objectives. \n\nStandard & Poor's has included a definition of corporate transparency in its GAMMA Methodology aimed at analysis and assessment of corporate governance. As a part of this work, Standard & Poor's Governance Services publishes the Transparency Index which calculates the average score for the largest public companies in various countries.\n\nTransparency International publishes an index of corporate transparency based on public disclosure of anti-corruption programmes and country-by-country reporting. Corporate transparency is also used to refer to radical transparency in corporate governance. Transparency Index calculated as the average score for the largest public companies in various countries.\n\nCorporate transparency is also used to refer to radical transparency in corporate governance.\n\nCorporations may be transparent to investors, the public at large, and to customers.\n\nOpening up the customer support channels may mean using a feedback tool which allows users to publicly vote on new developments, having an open internet forum, or actively responding to social media questions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3406204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3406204", "title": "Defenders (Ireland)", "text": "Defenders (Ireland)\n\nThe Defenders were a Roman Catholic agrarian secret society in 18th-century Ireland, founded in County Armagh. Initially, they were formed as local defensive organisations opposed to the Protestant Peep o' Day Boys; however, by 1790 had become a secret oath-bound fraternal society made up of lodges. By 1796, the Defenders had allied with the United Irishmen, and participated in the 1798 rebellion. By the 19th century, the organisation had developed into the Ribbonmen.\n\nThe Defenders were formed in the mid-1780s by Catholics in response to the failure of the authorities to take action against the Protestant Peep o' Day Boys who launched nighttime raids on Catholic homes under the pretence of confiscating arms which Catholics were prohibited from possessing under the terms of the Penal Laws.\n\nHaving seen the fighting between the Nappach Fleet, Bunker's Hill Defenders, and the Bawn Fleet, between 1784 and 1785 go largely unpunished, they were encouraged to form their own grouping. At Grangemore, near Ballymacnab, County Armagh, an area that had previously suffered from a Peep o' Day Boys raid, such a grouping was founded and became known as the Defenders. Supplied with arms purchased from a Protestant shopkeeper in Armagh, they embarked on night-watches and patrols keeping an eye out for Peep o' Day Boys.\n\nThe Defenders started out as independent local groups, defensive in nature, however by 1790 they had merged into a widespread secret oath-bound fraternal organisation consisting of lodges, associated to a head-lodge led by a Grand Master and committee. The Defenders were greatly influenced by Freemasonry, and were made up of the lower class of Catholics. Each member had to swear an oath, which despite the penal laws which they were subject to, included the swearing of obedience to King George the Third, his successors, and the government. The oath itself was revised several times, but kept its central character whilst focusing more on loyalty and solidarity.\n\nBy 1786 the Peep o' Day Boys and Defenders were opposed to each other and involved in confrontations.\n\nConflict between the two groups spread from nighttime to daytime with fights at fairs, markets, and races etc. Throughout the rest of the 1780s fierce fighting predominated parts of County Armagh. Magistrate's who were largely anti-Catholic and Protestant juries acquitted Peep o' Day Boys who were brought to trial whilst convicting and punishing Defenders. The government eventually sent the military in to try to end the trouble. Whilst successful in quelling daytime fighting, they failed to have an effect on nighttime disturbances. More troops were dispatched into the most troublesome areas.\n\nIn 1788, Lord Charlemont's re-organised Volunteer companies in County Armagh became involved in the conflict as Peep o' Day Boys joined their ranks. Despite being recreated to impartially end the trouble without the need of government troops, the new Volunteers only made things worse as they engaged in sectarian activities. Several clashes occurred between the Defenders and the Peep o' Day Boys at times backed up by the Volunteers. By 1789 the disturbances took on a different character focusing on religion itself, with both sides perpetrating atrocities, trying to outdo the other in their barbarism.\n\nCatholic Emancipation from 1778 onward had removed some of the penal restrictions imposed upon Catholics, who were now allowed to vote and join grand juries. However, the declaration of war by revolutionary France against Great Britain in February 1793 was also followed by the passing of the \"Militia Act\" which was a form of partial conscription. Wealthier Catholics such as the young Daniel O'Connell joined the Militia as it was proof of their gradual acceptance into the establishment, but it was harder for poorer rural Catholics whose help was needed on a family farm. Although the terms of the Act stipulated that conscripts would serve in Ireland, it was widely believed that men would be sent abroad and the resultant opposition saw thousands taking the Defender oath. Members were usually sworn in catechisms, one such oath went: \n\nThe Defenders did not have a centralised leadership but were organised in loosely connected local cells and were limited by their lack of firearms. They sought to obtain them by launching raids on the big and small houses of the Ascendancy. In January 1793 the 'Annual Register' reported that forty farms had been raided for weapons near Dundalk, County Louth. However County Leitrim saw the most Defender activity with raids on Carrick-on-Shannon and Manorhamilton before eventual defeat at Drumkeerin in May 1793. Despite the ensuing wave of repression, the Leitrim Defenders again rose in open rebellion in 1795 and hundreds of soldiers had to be poured into the county to defeat them. The Defenders retained enough strength to rise in support of the French during the 1798 rebellion, with strong Defender contingents present at the defeats at Granard, Wilson's Hospital and Ballinamuck.\n\nIn September 1795 the Peep o' Day Boys, backed up by some Volunteer companies, and Defenders would clash in the short Battle of the Diamond, near Loughgall in County Armagh. The result was around 30 Defenders being killed. The aftermath of the battle saw the Peep o' Day Boys retire to James Sloan's inn in Loughgall, where they would found the Orange Order.\n\nThe Society of United Irishmen had early identified the Defenders as potential allies and leading members such as James Hope had regularly travelled throughout the country organising cells and distributing propaganda such as the \"Northern Star\" newspaper. Defender cells were easily transformed into United Irish cells and those who held dual membership were often referred to as being \"up and up\". The precise role of the Defenders as an organisation during the rebellion is therefore hard to assess but Colonel Foote, commander of the British force and one of its few survivors of the battle of Oulart Hill referred to the victorious rebels as \"Defenders\" as opposed to United Irishmen in his official account of the defeat.\n\nThe Defenders of County Down withdrew support before the United Irish defeat at the Battle of Ballynahinch on 12 June 1798, as their leader John Magennis had received good local information on the size and placing of the British forces. Magennis had also suggested a night attack which Munro would not allow. The Defenders were also absent as a group from the earlier Battle of Antrim.\n\nThe Defenders were usually depicted as subject to residual sectarianism, ultra-Catholic, guilty of anti-Protestantism and having only paid at best lip service to the non-sectarian ideals of the United Irishmen. While this was undoubtedly true of a proportion of Defenders, Catholic priests were not immune to their wrath as in Athlone in 1793 where a priest who preached in favour of the Militia Act was almost hanged to death.\n\nThe fortunes of the Defenders were closely tied to the United Irishmen by the outbreak of the rebellion in 1798 and they did not survive its failure; however their influence endured in the later formation of similar groups like the Ribbonmen in the 1830s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "413574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413574", "title": "Gabriela Silang", "text": "Gabriela Silang\n\nMaría Josefa Gabriela Cariño de Silang (19 March 1731 – 20 September 1763) was a Filipina revolutionary leader best known as the first female leader of a Filipino movement for independence from Spain. She took over the reins of her husband Diego Silang's revolutionary movement after his assassination in 1763, leading the Ilocano rebel movement for four months before she was captured and executed by the colonial government of the Spanish East Indies.\n\nGabriela Silang (March 19, 1731 – September 20, 1763), born Maria Josefa Gabriela Cariño, was born in Barangay Caniogan, Santa, Ilocos Sur to a Spanish Ilocano father Anselmo Cariño, a trader who ferried his wares from Vigan to Abra along the Abra River and a descendant of Ignacio Cariño, the first Galician from Spain to arrive in Candon, Ilocos Sur in late 17th century. Her mother was a Tinguian mother who was from a Tinguian Barrio in San Quintin Abra (now Pidigan).\n\nShe received a Christian upbringing from the town's parish priest, and attained elementary level education at the town’s convent school. After being separated from her parents early in her childhood, she was raised by a priest, who eventually arranged a marriage between her and the wealthy businessman. They married in 1751, and he died three years later.\n\nAfter being widowed by her first husband, Gabriela met insurgent leader Diego Silang and married him in 1757.\nIn 1762, as part of what would later be known as the Seven Years' War, Britain declared war on Spain, which caused the British occupation of the Philippines. After British naval forces captured Manila in October 1762, an emboldened Diego sought to initiate an armed struggle to overthrow the Spanish functionaries in Ilocos and replace them with native-born officials. He collaborated with the British occupiers, who appointed him governor of the Ilocos region on their behalf and promised military reinforcement to help in the fight against the Spanish. This reinforcement was, however, never delivered.\nDuring this revolt, Gabriela became one of Diego's closest advisors and his unofficial aide-de-camp during skirmishes with Spanish troops. She was also a major figure in her husband's collaboration with the British occupiers.\nSpanish authorities retaliated by offering a reward for Diego’s assassination. Consequently, his two former allies Miguel Vicos and Pedro Becbec killed him in Vigan on May 28, 1763.\n\nAfter Diego’s assassination, Gabriela fled to Tayum, Abra to seek refuge in the house of her paternal uncle, Nicolas Cariño. There, she appointed her first two generals, Miguel Flores and Tagabuen Infiel. She later assumed her husband's role as commander of the rebel troops and achieved a \"priestess\" status amongst her community and followers. Her popular image as the bolo-wielding \"la Generala\" on horseback stems from this period.\n\nOn September 10, 1763, Silang tried to besiege Vigan but the Spanish retaliated, forcing her into hiding. She retreated once more to Abra, where the Spanish later captured her. On September 20, 1763, Silang and her troops were executed by hanging in Vigan's central plaza.\n\nA list of the closest-living relatives of Gabriela Cariño Silang through her paternal uncle, Nicolas Cariño:\n\nSome of Silang's living relations still reside in the ancestral house at the Cariño family seat of Tayum. The house, now a museum and art gallery called the \"Casa Museo Cariño\", is maintained by H. E. Ambassador Rosario Cariño . Among the rooms on display is the bedroom of Gabriela Cariño Silang while she used the house of her Uncle Nicolas Cariño as her headquarters when she fled after Diego's murder in 1763.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "522250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=522250", "title": "George Creel", "text": "George Creel\n\nGeorge Edward Creel (December 1, 1876 – October 2, 1953) was an investigative journalist and writer, a politician and government official. He served as the head of the United States Committee on Public Information, a propaganda organization created by President Woodrow Wilson during World War I.\n\nCreel was born on December 1, 1876 in Lafayette County, Missouri, to Henry Clay Creel and Virginia Fackler Creel, who had three sons, Wylie, George, and Richard Henry (Hal). His father came to Missouri from Parkersburg, Virginia and bought land in Osage County, Missouri; he was college educated, and served in Virginia legislature. A captain of the Confederate States Army during the Civil War, he did not succeed in the Missouri post-war economy as a farmer and rancher. Even though he developed alcohol dependence, his wife did not abandon him until his death in 1906. She provided for her family by keeping a boarding house in Kansas City and by sewing and keeping a large garden in Odessa, Missouri. All her children became productive members of society: Wylie Creel, a businessman; George, a journalist and writer; and Richard, a doctor, who served as Assistant Surgeon General of the United States Public Health Service.\n\nHis alcoholic father did not leave as deep an impression on Creel as did his mother, who inspired his passion for women's suffrage. The family moved frequently around west-central Missouri in Creel's early years, living for a time in Wheatland, Hickory County, Missouri then Kansas City before finally settling in Odessa, Missouri in 1888. He often said that, \"I knew my mother had more character, brains, and competence than any man that ever lived.\" His mother also encouraged his love for literature. Although Creel did not receive much formal education, as his mother pulled him out of school system, and was mainly home-schooled, he credited his mother for his fair knowledge of history and literature including classics, such as the \"Iliad\". In 1891, the then fifteen-year-old Creel ran away from home for a year, supporting himself by working at a succession of county fairs across Missouri and at odd jobs when available. Despite his resistance and rebellion, Creel did manage to receive some formal schooling, while attending Kansas City Central High School, Odessa High School, and Odessa College for one year in Odessa, Missouri. He said of himself that \"an open mind is not part of my inheritance. I took in prejudices with mother's milk and was weaned on partisanship.\"\n\nIn 1896, he began his first formal job at the \"Kansas City World.\" He was hired for $4 a week, starting as a reporter, but eventually moved up to write feature articles. He also wrote a book review column and covered social happenings. He was eventually fired because he felt it was wrong to discuss a wealthy man's daughter eloping with her coachman in the paper and apparently his editors didn't agree.\n\nAfter his termination, he was given a free train pass to Chicago by a well-wisher, and then hopped a cattle train to New York earning his fare by tending stock. He found an opportunity to work as a free-lance joke writer for William Randolph Hearst and Joseph Pulitzer's comic supplements. As a 1913 \"Collier's\" profile put it, he was \"shutting himself in his cheap room in a mechanics' hotel; he ground out jokes by the dozens, by the hundreds, jokes in bales and jokes in bundles.\" But he didn't sell any his first month and survived by shoveling snow. Soon, he sold four jokes to Hearst's \"Evening Journal\" and became a regular with many periodicals.\n\nOn March 11, 1899, he went back to Kansas City with his friend, Arthur Grissom, a poet, who married into rich Kansas family, to start a newspaper, \"The Independent.\" After only ten months, however, Grissom withdrew from the partnership. At age 23, Creel became the sole owner, editor, and publisher of \"The Independent\". In the paper he dealt with many social issues including women's suffrage, single tax system, and public ownership of utilities. He was also a strong supporter of the Democratic Party and aggressively fought the policies and practices of Thomas Pendergast. Creel was not afraid to put politics or party affiliation aside for the greater public good, however. He backed Democrat Joseph W. Folk in a successful run for Missouri Governor in 1904. Then, in 1908, Creel came out in support of Republican Herbert S. Hadley and his gubernatorial campaign. Hadley, an ardent reformer like Folk before him, was the first Republican elected Governor of Missouri in nearly forty years. Said Creel in one of his newspaper editorials regarding party affiliations, \"When a man becomes so besotted with partisan prejudice as to exalt party above the interest of the community, state or county, that moment he ceases to be a good citizen.\"\n\nIn late 1909, Creel left Kansas City and the \"Independent\" behind for a new political battlefield in Colorado. Reformer John F. Shafroth, a native of Fayette, Missouri and an acquaintance of Creel's, had been elected Colorado's governor in 1908. Despite the \"Independent\" being profitable, he chose to give the newspaper away to a pair of young women who aspired to be newspaper publishers. Leaving Kansas City with just fifty dollars to his name, Creel soon found employment as an editorial writer for the \"Denver Post\". He gained national publicity by calling for the lynching of 11 senators who opposed the public ownership of Denver's water company. He resigned promptly after and had a brief stint working at William Randolph Hearst's \"Cosmopolitan\". He moved on to write editorials for \"The Rocky Mountain News\" (1911-1912) where he was a strong supporter of Woodrow Wilson.\n\nIn June 1912, Creel was appointed Police Commissioner of Denver by the recently elected reform mayor, Henry J. Arnold. Creel immediately used the office to launch several ambitious reform campaigns, such as ordering police officers to give up their clubs and nightsticks, as well as a campaign to destroy the red-light district in downtown Denver, while providing a tax-funded rehabilitation farm for women leaving prostitution. His time as police commissioner ended after he began pushing the Mayor Henry Arnold to live up to campaign promises. Although he was dismissed by the mayor for the creation of dissension, he was lauded nationally for his watchdog efforts.\n\nThen in 1916, he became heavily involved in President Wilson's re-election campaign. Working under Bob Wooley, the Publicity Head for the Democratic National Committee, Creel wrote newspaper features and interviewed various people. In March 1917, Creel discovered that many of the military leaders wanted strong censorship of any criticism of the war. Creel sent President Wilson a brief in which he argued for \"expression, not suppression\" of the press. Wilson approved Creel's proposal and appointed him as chairman of the Committee on Public Information.\n\nSeven days after the United States entered World War I, Woodrow Wilson created the Committee on Public Information, a propaganda agency acting to release government news, to sustain morale in the US, to administer voluntary press censorship, and to develop propaganda abroad. George Creel was named the head of the committee, and he created 37 distinct divisions, most notably the Division of Pictorial Publicity, the Four Minute Men Division, the News Division, and the Censorship Board.\n\nThe Division of Pictorial Publicity was staffed by hundreds of the nation's most talented artists, and they created over 1000 designs for paintings, posters, cartoons, and sculptures that instilled patriotism, fear, and interest in the war efforts. Creel himself said that the images were \"something that caught even the most indifferent eye.\" Through the Four Minute Men division, roughly 75,000 civilian volunteers spoke to 314 million people over the span of 18 months on topics assigned by the CPI, like the draft, rationing, bond drives, and victory gardens. These civilian volunteers spoke at social events in places like movie theaters and fellowship halls for four minutes, which was the time it took to change a movie reel and the time believed to be a human's attention span. The guidelines set forth by Creel directed the volunteers to fill their speeches with facts and appeals to emotions to bolster public support for the war efforts. Between the News Division and Censorship Committee, Creel and the CPI were able to control the flow of official war information. Creel sought to portray facts without bias, though most pieces of news were \"colored by nationalistic assumptions.\" Creel's committee may have produced biased news, but it was his hope that the US could avoid rigid censorship during the war, as Creel's views on censorship were \"expression, not repression.\" Under Creel's direction, the CPI sought only to repress material that contained \"dangerous\" or \"unfavorable\" ideas to avoid demoralizing the population.\n\nAll activities of the CPI ceased on November 11, upon the signing of the Armistice with Germany. The efforts of the CPI were regarded as the greatest public relations effort in history, up to its time. Such a massive, offensive, and multifaceted campaign had never been undertaken before, and the CPI brought to light the power of mass persuasion and social influence at a national level – realizations that had a profound effect on the field of public relations. Many of the 20th century's most influential public relations practitioners were trained under Creel on the committee, including Edward Bernays and Carl R. Byoir.\n\nAfter his prolific career as the chairman of the CPI, Creel joined \"Collier's\" (1920) as a feature writer. Then in 1926, he moved to San Francisco and eventually chaired the Regional Labor Board (1933) for California, Utah, and Nevada.\n\nHe was an active member of the Democratic Party and ran against the novelist Upton Sinclair for the post of Governor of California in the 1934 primary. Creel lost.\n\nCreel was the author of an extensive collection of writings. Some of his writing and books include:\n\n\nCreel was married to actress Blanche Bates from 1912 until her death in 1941. The couple had two children, a son named George Jr. and a daughter named Frances. In 1943, he married Alice May Rosseter. During the last years of his life Creel resided in San Francisco until he died on October 2, 1953.\n\n\"Notes\"'\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "17504986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17504986", "title": "Government-backed loan", "text": "Government-backed loan\n\nA government-backed loan is a loan subsidized by the government, which protects lenders against defaults on payments, thus making it a lot easier for lenders to offer potential borrowers lower interest rates. Its primary aim is to make home ownership affordable to lower income households and first-time buyers.\n\nThere are numerous types of government-backed loans, which vary dependent on the country and status of the borrower. Arguably, the most widely known type of government-backed loan is the US Federal Housing Administration FHA loan, in existence since 1934.\n\nOther types of government-backed loans include the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "5245079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5245079", "title": "History of the National Health Service", "text": "History of the National Health Service\n\nThe name National Health Service (NHS) is used to refer to the four public health services of England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales, individually or collectively, though only England's NHS officially has this title. For details of the history of each National Health Service, particularly since 1999, see:\n\n\nThe NHS was the first universal health care system established anywhere in the world. A leaflet was sent to every household in June 1948 which explained that\nThe NHS in Scotland was established as a separate entity with its own legislation, the National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1947, from the foundation of the NHS in 1948. Northern Ireland likewise had its own legislation in 1948. Wales, however, was managed from England and treated much like an English region for the first 20 years of the NHS. In 1969, responsibility for the NHS in Wales was passed to the Secretary of State for Wales from the Secretary of State for Health who was thereafter just responsible for the NHS in England.\n\nDr Benjamin Moore, a Liverpool physician, in 1910 in \"The Dawn of the Health Age\" was probably the first to use the words 'National Health Service'. He established the State Medical Service Association which held its first meeting in 1912 and continued to exist until it was replaced by the Socialist Medical Association in 1930.\n\nBefore the National Health Service was created in 1948, patients were generally required to pay for their health care. Free treatment was sometimes available from Voluntary Hospitals. Some local authorities operated hospitals for local ratepayers (under a system originating with the Poor Law). The London County Council (LCC) on 1 April 1930 took over from the abolished Metropolitan Asylums Board responsibility for 140 hospitals, medical schools and other medical institutions. The Local Government Act 1929 allowed local authorities to run services over and above those authorised by the Poor Law and in effect to provide medical treatment for everyone. By the outbreak of the Second World War, the LCC was running the largest public health service in Britain.\n\nDr A. J. Cronin's controversial novel \"The Citadel\", published in 1937, had fomented extensive criticism about the severe inadequacies of health care. The author's innovative ideas were not only essential to the conception of the NHS, but in fact, his best-selling novels are said to have greatly contributed to the Labour Party's victory in 1945.\n\nSystems of health insurance usually consisted of private schemes such as Friendly societies or Welfare societies. Under the National Insurance Act 1911, introduced by David Lloyd George, a small amount was deducted from weekly wages, to which were added contributions from the employer and the government. In return for the record of contributions, the workman was entitled to medical care (as well as retirement and unemployment benefits) though not necessarily to the drugs prescribed. To obtain medical care, he registered with a doctor. Each doctor in General Practice who participated in the scheme thus had a 'panel' of those who have made an insurance under the system, and was paid a capitation grant out of the fund calculated upon the number. Lloyd George's name survives in the \"Lloyd George envelopes\" in which most primary care records in England are stored, although today most working records in primary care are at least partially computerised. This imperfect scheme only covered workers who paid their National Insurance Contributions and was known as 'Lloyd George's Ambulance Wagon'. Most women and children were not covered.\n\nBertrand Dawson was commissioned in 1919 by Christopher Addison, the first British Minister of Health to produce a report on \"schemes requisite for the systematised provision of such forms of medical and allied services as should, in the opinion of the Council, be available for the inhabitants of a given area\". An Interim Report on the Future Provision of Medical and Allied Services was produced in 1920, though no further report ever appeared. The report laid down plans for a network of Primary and Secondary Health Centres, and was very influential in subsequent debates about the National Health Service. However the fall of the Lloyd George government prevented any implementation of those ideas at that time.\n\nThe Labour Party in 1932 accepted a resolution moved by Somerville Hastings calling for the establishment of a State Medical Service and in 1934 the Labour Party Conference at Southport unanimously accepted an official document on a National Health Service.\n\nPrior to the Second World War there was already consensus that health insurance should be extended to the dependants of the wage-earner, and that the voluntary and local authority hospitals should be integrated. A British Medical Association (BMA) pamphlet, \"A General Medical Service for the Nation\" was issued along these lines in 1938. However, no action was taken due to the international crisis. During the war, a new centralised state-run Emergency Hospital Service employed doctors and nurses to care for those injured by enemy action and arrange for their treatment in whichever hospital was available. The existence of the service made voluntary hospitals dependent on the Government and there was a recognition that many would be in financial trouble once peace arrived. The need to do something to guarantee the voluntary hospitals meant that hospital care drove the impetus for reform. \n\nIn February 1941 the Deputy Permanent Secretary at the Ministry of Health recorded privately areas of agreement on post-war health policy which included \"a complete health service to be available to every member of the community\" and on 9 October 1941, the Minister of Health Ernest Brown announced that the Government proposed to ensure that there was a comprehensive hospital service available to everyone in need of it, and that local authorities would be responsible for providing it. The Medical Planning Commission set up by the professional bodies went one stage further in May 1942 recommending (in an interim report) a National Health Service with General Practitioners working through health centres and hospitals run by regional administrations. When in 1942 Arthur Greenwood, the Labour Party Deputy Leader and cabinet minister with responsibility for post-war reconstruction, successfully pressed the cabinet to commission a report into social insurance from economist and social reformer William Beveridge, Beveridge attached an assumption to the Beveridge Report that this same idea would be implemented; his report stressed the importance of it.\n\nDeveloping the idea into firm policy proved difficult. Although the BMA had been part of the Medical Planning Commission, at their conference in September 1943 the association changed policy to oppose local authority control of hospitals and to favour extension of health insurance instead of GPs working for state health centres. When Conservative MP and Health Minister Henry Willink prepared a white paper endorsing a National Health Service, it was attacked by Brendan Bracken and Lord Beaverbrook and resignations were threatened on both sides. However the Cabinet endorsed the White Paper which was published in 1944. This White Paper includes the founding principles of the NHS: it was to be funded out of general taxation and not through national insurance, and services would be provided by the same doctors and the same hospitals, but:\n\nWillink then set about trying to assuage the doctors, a job taken over by Aneurin Bevan in Clement Attlee's Labour Party government after the war ended. Bevan decided that the 1944 white paper's proposal for local authority control of voluntary hospitals was not workable, as he felt that local authorities were too small to manage hospitals. He decided that \"the only thing to do was to create an entirely new hospital service, to take over the voluntary hospitals, and to take over the local government hospitals and to organise them as a single hospital service\". This structure of the NHS in England and Wales was established by the National Health Service Act 1946 which received Royal Assent on 6 November 1946. The Act implemented a system where each person resident would be signed up to a specific General Practice (GP) as the point of entry into the system, building on the foundations laid in 1912 by the introduction of National Insurance and the list system for general practice. Patients would have access to all medical, dental and nursing care they needed without having to pay for it at the time. \n\nMany doctors were initially opposed to Bevan's plan, primarily on the grounds that it reduced their level of independence. The British Medical Association voted in May 1948 not to join the new service, but Bevan worked hard to bring them on board by the time the new arrangements launched on 5 July 1948 knowing that without doctors, there would be no health service. Being a shrewd political operator, Bevan managed to push through the radical health care reform measure by dividing and cajoling the opposition, as well as by offering lucrative payment structures for consultants. On this subject he stated, \"I stuffed their mouths with gold\".\n\nIn 1979 across the whole UK there were about 2,750 NHS hospitals with about 480,000 beds, accounting for about 70% of total NHS expenditure. About one-third of beds in England were then provided in new or converted accommodation built since 1948 with a higher proportion in Northern Ireland, but lower in Scotland and Wales. Beds for mental illness, geriatric patients and mental handicap were much more likely to be in older buildings than acute or maternity services.\n\nThe National Health Service was a major employer from its foundation. After nationalising Britain's voluntary and municipal hospitals, the new NHS took responsibility for 360,000 staff in England and Wales and a further 45,000 in Scotland. These included 9,000 full-time doctors (with thousands more consultants working in multiple part-time roles), 149,000 nurses and midwives (23,000 of whom were part-time), 128,000 ancillary staff (catering, laundry, cleaning and maintenance), 25,000 administrative and clerical staff, and 19,000 professional and technical staff, of whom the 2,800 physiotherapists, 1,600 laboratory technicians and 2,000 radiographers were the largest groups. This workforce would continue to grow throughout the 20th and 21st Centuries, overtaking the National Coal Board to become Britain's largest employer in 1961. By the end of the 1970s, the NHS had passed 1,000,000 staff and in 2015 was the world's fifth largest work organisation with 1.7m.\n\nThe NHS has long had one of Britain's most varied workforces, with employees from a diverse range of backgrounds in terms of class, occupation, gender, race and nationality. In the early NHS doctors were overwhelmingly men from middle and upper class backgrounds, and were often privately educated. Nurses in general hospitals were usually women and generally from a mixture of middle and working class origins. Men constituted a significant minority of nurses but were largely concentrated in mental hospitals, where their role historically had been more associated with manual labour, particularly the physical control of the patients. Professional organisations like the Royal College of Nursing tended to promote the idea that nurses were middle-class professionals, whilst trade unions encouraged nurses to see themselves as workers. Like nursing, ancillary tasks were also heavily gendered with portering and maintenance largely done by men, and laundry and cleaning largely women.\n\nIncreasing demand for health services led to a steady expansion in total staff numbers throughout the second half of the 20th Century and into the 21st century. However, NHS wage rates were usually comparatively low and hours often long and anti-social. Consequently, under conditions of full employment in the 1950s and 1960s the NHS experienced regular recruitment crises in virtually all categories of staff, particularly doctors and nurses in some peripheral provincial areas. One solution adopted by health authorities was to encourage married nurses to return to the workforce part-time. In Britain, historically many nurses expected to leave work after getting married and into the 1960s senior nursing posts were disproportionately likely to held by unmarried women. Nurse training also had a very high drop out rate, in part related to students leaving to get married (in addition to rejection by some of the strict discipline imposed on them). Part-time work brought many of these women back into the workforce and the NHS was a key site in the growth of this kind of work in post-war Britain, employing 65,000 part-time ancillary staff (mostly domestics) and 79,000 part-time nurses and midwives by 1967.\n\nAlongside this rise in part-time work, hospitals increasingly looked overseas for staff, recruiting particularly heavily in Britain's colonies from the 1950s. By 1955, the Ministry of Health had official recruitment campaigns in 16 British colonies and former colonies. By 1965, there were more than 3,000 Jamaican nurses working in British hospitals and in 1977, 12% of student nurses and midwives came from overseas, 66% of them from the Caribbean, with substantial numbers also coming from the Philippines and South Asia. Large numbers of ancillary staff also migrated to fill NHS vacancies. Doctors were also recruited from across Britain's colonies and former colonies, particularly from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. Doctors born and qualified overseas constituted 31% of all doctors in 1971. Nurses and doctors recruited by the NHS were often marginalised in job allocation. Early nurse migrants were often forced to re-validate their qualifications on arrival in Britain and instructed to take the less academic State Enrolled Nurse (SEN) training, rather than the more prestigious State Registered Nurse (SRN) qualification. SENs had worse pay and fewer promotion prospects. Similarly, employment discrimination often meant South Asian doctors were forced into less desirable posts in run-down provincial hospitals.\n\nThe NHS was also a site of expansion in new categories of scientific and technical workers. In 1967, the service employed 31,000 professional and technical staff connected with diagnosis and treatment, including audiologists, biochemists, dietitians, more than 9000 laboratory technicians, occupational therapists, physicists, physiotherapists, psychologists and radiographers. This category of staff had more than doubled in size ten years later, rising to 64,700 people or 6.5% of the total workforce. Although at the start of the period many of these roles had relatively informal career paths, with individuals sometimes recruited as assistants before training as technicians, from the 1970s onwards it became increasingly common for roles to have more formal training schemes and associated degree courses. Professional associations like the College of Occupational Therapists and the Association for Clinical Biochemistry and Laboratory Medicine became better organised and took a greater role both in regulating their professions and in collective bargaining with the Ministry of Health.\n\nThe 1980s saw further changes in the NHS' workforce. The Thatcher Government encouraged (and eventually forced) health authorities to put most ancillary services out for competitive tender, effectively outsourcing the jobs of those workers. This led to a substantial reduction in numbers, with 1/3 of ancillary posts disappearing between 1980 and 1987. Those that remained were largely employed by private agencies and no longer subject to national agreements or trade union collective bargaining. For nurses, the introduction of Project 2000 meant that their profession now centred around degree courses run by universities rather than nurse training courses run by teaching hospitals. This effectively removed student nurses from hospital workforces and helped raise the status of the profession. Much of the physical labour done by student nurses was now passed to a new category of health worker, the Health Care Assistant, a role than mirrors that of \"auxiliary nurses\" in the early NHS. The status of General Practitioners as outside contractors was largely confirmed by the market-based reforms introduced by the Thatcher, Major and Blair governments. The working lives of Hospital Doctors changed from the 1970s onwards, as career paths and work patterns became increasingly formalised. Set rules on hours were introduced in the 1970s and refined in the 1980s and 1990s to dramatically reduce the number of hours junior doctors were expected to contribute.\n\nBetween 1948 and 1972 the NHS largely remained free of strikes, but nevertheless did experience some other industrial disputes. The foundation of the service was opposed by many doctors, particularly general practitioners, who feared that a state medical service would reduce their independence. Doctors expressed this opposition through their largest professional organisation, the British Medical Association, which held a number of ballots canvassing its members' (largely negative) opinions on arrangements for the new service. After a threat to boycott the new service, the BMA secured some concessions from Aneurin Bevan, the Minister of Health responsible for implementing the NHS Act. The BMA's intransigence did not stop the new health service coming into being, but did secure the right to be paid on a \"capitation\" basis (per patient) rather than on a set salary. More importantly for doctors the government's concessions established the conventional wisdom in the Ministry of Health that changes to the NHS were impossible without the consent of the medical profession, effectively giving doctors a \"medical veto\". Winning consent from physicians remained a problem for Health Ministers, who faced regular complaints, particularly over pay. In 1962 the government gave up control over doctors' pay to the independent Review Body on Doctors and Dentists Remuneration.\n\nThe first dispute involving nurses took place when student nurses opened their first NHS pay packets in July 1948. Despite having received a modest pay rise, an increase in National Insurance contributions meant their take home pay had gone down. Outraged students at St. Mary's Hospital, Plaistow, organised a protest rally and a march, threatening to resign \"en masse\" if their demands for better pay, shorter hours and general improvements in conditions weren't met. The march made headlines but won few concessions from the Ministry of Health. Complaints from student nurses about poor conditions, long hours and low pay were common for much of the post-war period. Up to the 1970s student nurses were responsible for as much as 75% of the physical labour on hospital wards and were often subject to intense disciplinary regimes both on the wards and in their private lives, with many student nurses living in strictly-supervised hospital nurses' accommodation.\n\nThe conflicts of 1947-48 were not very representative of the prevailing industrial relations culture in the NHS. Despite recurrent complaints about low pay and long hours, NHS staff were not prone to outbreaks of collective protest in the 1950s and 1960s. With the exception of an overtime ban and work-to-rule by administrative staff in 1957, organised by NALGO, and a go-slow by laundry workers in Carshalton in 1950, the NHS had little formal workplace conflict. Groups of miners, printers, dockers and car workers did stage a one-hour strike in solidarity with nurses' claims for pay increase in 1962, but the nurses' professional organisation the Royal College of Nursing repudiated their actions and generally preferred to trade on respectability rather than militancy. At that time the Rcn was reluctant to refer to itself as a trade union and nurses looking for more conventional workplace representation looked to the Confederation of Health Service Employees (COHSE) and the National Union of Public Employees (NUPE). The latter was generally strongest amongst ancillary staff and former amongst psychiatric nurses. Recognising the sensitive nature of hospital work both remained cautious regarding industrial action in the NHS until the 1970s, fearing that advocating action that might affect patients would drive away potential members. A combination of cautious organisations, staff who often saw their work as a vocation, and the domineering influence of doctors over the rest of the workforce, led to an \"old colonial\" system of industrial relations, structured largely by personal patronage and paternalism.\n\nThis largely broke down in the 1970s with unions like NUPE, COHSE and ASTMS recruiting large numbers of all categories of staff, and professional organisations like the RCN and BMA becoming more aggressive in collective bargaining. In December 1972, ancillary staff, the worst paid and most marginalised section of the workforce, organised mass demonstrations across the country with around 150,000 workers and supporters protesting poverty level wages. Action continued in March 1973 with ancillaries organising the NHS' first national strike. In the years to come other groups took action over similar issues, with nurses mounting a sustained campaign over pay in 1974 and radiographers following suit in 1975 under the slogan \"no raise, no rays\". Doctors also took strike action in 1975, with junior doctors walking out over long hours and inadequate pay for extra time and consultants taking action in defence of their right to place their private patients in NHS beds.\n\nAlthough strikes in the NHS remained rare, changes in everyday industrial relations were more profound. The NHS saw a significant expansion in the number of workplace representatives in this period, sometimes forcing managers to consider the views of sections of the workforce, like the ancillary staff, who they had long ignored. This sometimes caused conflict between different groups. The \"pay beds\" dispute pitched nurses and ancillaries, who opposed private practice, against consultants, the direct beneficiaries of private practice. Other aspects of the upsurge in workplace activism were less controversial and all categories of staff were active in lobbying central government for better funding. The second half of the 1970s also saw a series of campaigns aimed at saving local hospitals, some of which involved \"work-ins\" where staff took over hospitals and continued to provide services after health authorities had shut them down. In November 1976, health workers took over Elizabeth Garrett Anderson Women's Hospital saving it from closure. The occupation of Hounslow Hospital in 1977 was less successful with the local authority forcibly removing the patients after 2 months.\n\nBy the end of the 1970s, industrial relations in the NHS were widely considered to be in crisis, with poor management and inadequate personnel procedures causing wikt:endemic conflict in a substantial minority of hospitals. The participation of large numbers of health workers in the events of 1978-79 Winter of Discontent was one reflection of this. Ambulance drivers and ancillary staff were both involved in strikes over pay in January 1979, reducing 1,100 hospitals to emergency services only and causing widespread disruption to ambulance services.\n\nAs in other sectors, industrial relations under the Thatcher Government continued to be conflictual. Successive Health Ministers looked to hold down pay in the public sector and to outsource ancillary staff where possible. Following the 1983 Griffiths Report, the NHS also tried to import a business model more similar to the private sector with professional managers taking over cost control, reducing the power of the medical profession. There were disputes over all of these policies. In 1982 there was another conflict over pay restraint involving ancillaries and nurses. Campaigning by NUPE, COHSE and RCN won an interim pay rise for nurses who were also granted their own independent pay review body, as the doctors had been 20 years earlier. The status and pay for registered nurses subsequently tended to improve, particularly when nurse education was shifted to university degree courses under Project 2000 in 1986.\n\nAncillary staff, in contrast, were increasingly marginalised during the 1980s. The Conservative Government put pressure on health authorities to outsource their catering, cleaning, laundry and maintenance services to private companies. Trade unions fought these policies, in some cases successfully, but many hospital services finally ended up in private hands, sometimes with companies who refused to recognise trade unions. Outsourcing dissipated some of the influence unions had built up during the 1970s and towards the end of decade increasingly occupied many shop stewards in detailed negotiations over grading and contract details rather than recruitment and organising.\n\nDoctors' relationship with the government deteriorated during the 1980s. The advance of managerialism under Griffiths irritated many doctors, previously accustomed to a dominant role in NHS governance. By 1989 doctors were extremely hostile to government reforms and were active in lobbying against the implementation of the 1989 government white paper, \"Working for Patients\", which introduced an internal market to the NHS. Their defence of public ownership and opposition to market-based reforms marked a substantial shift from doctors' original opposition to the NHS, reflecting how far doctors' mindsets had changed in relation to state medicine.\n\nRelations between the NHS and the government were generally much improved under the Blair Government. Substantial investment in staff and new facilities were appreciated by many nurses and doctors, although there were concerns about the introduction of private sector suppliers, the use of public-private partnerships to fund much investment and the development of an intensive culture of achievement targets. There was also no attempt to reverse the outsourcing of ancillary services, something health service unions linked to recurrent crises over hospital cleanliness.\n\nFilm and television have played important roles in forming cultural understandings of the National Health Service. Hospitals and GP practices, in particular, have been repeatedly dramatised as locations that lend themselves to displaying wider life stories - love, birth, ageing, dying, friendships and feuds. The NHS has also been an important topic within public health, often forming a central part in public information films about health and wellbeing.\n\nFrom the launch of the National Health Service in 1948, film was used as an important cultural tool for spreading governmental health messages. During the Second World War, film grew in popularity as a way for the British government to keep citizens informed, impart advice and help raise morale on the Home Front. This commitment to producing public information films continued after the end of the War in 1945 with the newly formed Central Office of Information taking responsibility for the production of these films. This ensured that the launch of the NHS was accompanied by a number of public information films shown nationwide during Spring and Summer 1948. Three main films were produced - \"Charley: You're Very Good Health\" (Halas & Batchelor, 1948), \"Here's Health\" (Douglas Alexander, 1948) and \"Doctor's Dilemma\" (Unknown, 1948). These films introduced the NHS in three distinct ways with \"Charley: You're Very Good Health\" focused on explaining how the NHS would work upon its launch in a light-hearted manner with Charley standing in as the 'everyman' within the film's narrative. The film used a series of 'suppose' scenarios to outline how the new NHS system would work in practice in comparison to the pre-NHS health care system. \"Here's Health\" instead employed the narrative techniques of melodrama to dramatise one family's response to a household accident and the sudden need for medical attention during the Christmas of 1947. It uses flash-forwards to show how these type of care and the cost of it will be altered by the introduction of the NHS. The third main film used to advertise the launch of the NHS was a much briefer, information short, centred on the use of voice-over and a combination of still and moving images to encourage members of the public to register with an NHS GP before the National Health Service Act came into force on 5 July 1948.\n\nWithin a few years of the NHS, popular fictional films were beginning to focus on the NHS as a location for dramatic narratives. Films such as \"White Corridors\" (Pat Jackson, 1951) and \"Mandy\" (Alexander MacKendrick,1952), shown within the early years of the NHS, showed day-to-day life in an NHS hospital as well as dealing with specific single-issue topics such as deafness within postwar British society. The Doctor series, starring firstly Dirk Bogarde and later Leslie Philips, took a comedic look at the antics of a young doctor in an NHS hospital and the Carry on ... comedies, Carry on Nurse (Gerald Thomas,1959), Carry on Doctor (Gerald Thomas, 1967) and Carry on Matron (Gerald Thomas, 1972) also used comic situations within the NHS hospital to poke fun at both the NHS as an institution and the capers of doctors, nurses and patients alike. From the late 1950s, the NHS also became an important subject within the wider history of British soap operas. Emergency Ward 10 was first broadcast in 1957 on ITV and ran until 1967 and followed the life and loves of the staff and patients of the fictionalised Oxbridge General. ITV later followed this up with General Hospital which borrowed much from Emergency Ward 10 in terms of its themes and focus. The idea of a medical hospital as a suitable and popular setting for a soap opera continued to take root in the 1980s. Casualty, set in an A&E department, was first broadcast in 1986 and has since become the longest running medical drama in the world. At a time when controversy over the NHS was high on the public agenda, Paul Unwin and Jeremy Brock began their proposal for Casualty by declaring that ‘In 1948 a dream was born: a National Health Service. In 1985 the dream is in tatters.’ This politicised agenda remained in evidence during the first three series of the Casualty, with the programme showing how those who fictionally worked for the NHS were also dissatisfied with the new direction of the Service. During the 1990s television began more overtly showing medial practitioners who were critical or cynical of the NHS. In particular, Cardiac Arrest was broadcast on BBC 1 utilised this type of cynicism within its narrative plots. Television has also forged a place for the NHS within reality television programming. In particular 24 Hours in A&E and One Born Every Minute have adopted medical documentary formats to show the inner workings of particular NHS hospital departments. Fly-on-the-wall footage is interweaved with interviews with patients, staff and relatives as they give their perspectives on the medical cases shown in each episode.\n\nComedy films, books, and cartoons have been produced about the NHS. These have shaped as well as reflected how people think about this institution.\n\nThere have been lots of cartoons about the NHS throughout the institution's history. Even before the NHS was launched, there were cartoons documenting the political debates about its form. In the 1940s, the British Medical Association was opposed to the idea of doctors becoming state employees on fixed salaries. Cartoonists made their opinions about this conflict known. David Low published a cartoon in the \"Evening Standard\" on 14 December 1944 showing Charles Hill, the BMA Secretary, being examined by a doctor. The doctor states, 'Don't be alarmed. Whatever's the trouble, you're not going to die from enlargement of the social conscience.'\n\nWhen the NHS was launched, many cartoons showed how people responded to the NHS being free at the point of access. One cartoon, published in 1951 by Antonia Yeoman, portrayed women in a doctor's waiting room, one of whom stated that she had seen eighteen doctors and seven psychiatrists. Eventually, she had been diagnosed with a 'deep-seated guilt about getting things free from the National Health Service.' Analysing cartoons about health featured in Punch magazine from 1948, the historian Bernard Zeitlyn argues that they 'centred on the bonanza of free spectacles, beards and trips abroad' that the NHS would bring. Cartoonists also portrayed public excitement about the availability of free wigs on the NHS. In one such example, from January 1949, cartoonist Joseph Lee showed an irate man chasing a child, asking, 'Who's been practising Home Perms on my free National Health Service wig?'\n\nCartoons were also used to criticise NHS policy. From 1948, Zeitlyn also found cartoons portraying concern about the 'bureaucratic consequences' of the NHS. The number of critical cartoons about NHS policy increased from the 1960s, as the NHS faced cuts, and the satire movement emerged in Britain. In December 1960, cartoonist Victor Weisz drew an image for the \"Evening Standard\" showing Minister for Health Enoch Powell as a surgeon covered in blood, accusing him of making too many cuts. Other cartoonists suggested that too much was being spent on the NHS. For example, in the \"Daily Mail\" in 1968, John Musgrave-Wood drew a man to portray the NHS, who was wearing a dunce's cap and being fed 'Defence Cuts'. Many cartoons have been very interested in portraying NHS staff, both their lives and industrial conflict. The cartoonist Carl Giles, who often drew for the \"Daily Express\", was very interested in drawing nurses in particular. Historian Jack Saunders has argued that Giles' presentation shifted from presenting nurses from 'caring and sexualised' to 'bolshie and assertive'. Giles sent a cartoon of nurses stealing peas from patients directly to the East Suffolk Nurses League. On the cartoon, Giles wrote 'with deepest sympathy', referring to the cutting of food allowances.\n\nPatients and staff have made jokes about the NHS to one another, on a daily basis, throughout time. However, it is very hard to locate and to understand these. Sometimes 'everyday' jokes about the NHS are mentioned in passing in newspaper coverage. For example, one letter published by the \"Daily Mail\" in October 1988 described the experiences of an NHS secretary who 'seethed with anger' when hearing a consultant joke about spending his days on a golf course. The People's History of the NHS project at the University of Warwick has collected more such memories on its website, and invites contributions for more.\n\nResearchers and clinicians hope that humour and laughter may be able to be used to improve human health. The term 'gelotology', to denote the study of laughter, was created in 1964 by Edith Trager and W. F. Fry. One experiment from 2011, led by researchers at the University of Oxford, suggested that watching comedy videos may raise people's pain thresholds, when watched in a group. This effect did not hold when videos were watched alone, or if research participants watched videos such as scenes of nature. In 2003, the artist Nicola Green and film-maker Lara Agnew created a 'laughter booth' at the Royal Brompton Hospital. In this booth, patients and staff could watch videos of people laughing. The idea of laughter as healing has also influenced language, through the phrase 'laughter is the best medicine'.\n\n"}
{"id": "49029225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49029225", "title": "Holy See Representative", "text": "Holy See Representative\n\nA Holy See Representative is a papal diplomat (representing the Holy See and Vatican City State), usually ranking as papal nuncio (equivalent to ambassador), who is accredited to an international organisation, where (other) nations dispatch Permanent representatives.\n\nAs of January 2016, there were 22 representatives, accredited to the following host organisations :\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27139219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27139219", "title": "Human rights in Cape Verde", "text": "Human rights in Cape Verde\n\nHuman rights in Cape Verde are addressed under the national constitution.\n\nThe 2009 Human Rights Report by the United States Department of State noted that in general, the government respected the basic rights of citizens, however there were concerns in certain areas such as prison conditions, legal process and discrimination.\n\nLegislative protection of human rights can be seen as a relatively recent development, with the constitution being officially adopted in 1980. The political system operates under a multi-party parliamentary democracy.\n\nThe following chart shows Cape Verde's ratings since 1975 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. A rating of 1 is \"free\"; 7, \"not free\".\nCape Verde's stances on international human rights treaties are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8071445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8071445", "title": "International Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists", "text": "International Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists\n\nThe International Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists strives to advance human rights everywhere, including the prevention of war crimes, the punishment of war criminals, the prohibition of weapons of mass destruction, and international co-operation based on the rule of law and the fair implementation of international covenants and conventions.\n\nThe association is especially committed to issues that are on the agenda of the Jewish people, and works to combat racism, xenophobia, antisemitism, Holocaust denial and negation of the State of Israel.\n\nIAJLJ was founded in 1969. Among its founders were Supreme Court Justices Haim Cohn of Israel, Arthur Goldberg of the United States and Nobel Peace Prize laureate René Cassin of France. Membership comprises lawyers, judges, judicial officers and academic jurists in more than 50 countries who are active locally and internationally as the need arises. Membership is open to lawyers and jurists of all creeds who share the organization's aims.\n\nThe association has Category II Status as a non-governmental organization at the United Nations, enabling it to participate in the deliberations of various UN bodies. In this capacity, the representative of the association has been actively involved in the work of the Commission on Human Rights in Geneva and of related bodies, and as of 2007 will be engaged with the work of the United Nations Human Rights Council, which has replaced the Commission on Human Rights.\n\nThe association also publishes \"Justice\", which examines a variety of relevant issues and current topics and is mailed to thousands of lawyers and jurists throughout the world.\n\nIn 2006, the association held its inaugural Justice Haim H. Cohn Lectureship in Rishon LeZion, Israel. The lecture, on Human Rights in a Constitutional Framework, was delivered by William M. Treanor, Dean of the School of Law at New York’s Fordham University.\n\nThe association holds its triennial international congress in Jerusalem, as well as conferences and seminars in many other countries. It holds international conferences in European cities to commemorate Jewish lawyers and jurists who perished in the Holocaust and to mark their contribution to the legal systems of their countries. Conferences have been held in Salonika (Thessaloniki), Berlin, Warsaw, and Budapest in November 2006.\n\nIn January 2000 the association held a conference in Strasbourg under the auspices of the Council of Europe and with the participation of high-ranking officials of the Council of Europe, the European Parliament and the European Court of Human Rights. Discussions were held on cooperation between IAJLJ and the Council of Europe on ways to combat racism, anti-Semitism and denial of the Holocaust.\n\nIn August 2000 the association convened its first conference in North America. \"“Pursuing Justice in the Global Village”\" was the theme of this conference, held in Toronto, Canada. Among the participants were several Canadian judges and federal and provincial government ministers, as well as Judge Thomas Buergenthal of the International Court of Justice in The Hague; Jerome Shestack, former United States Ambassador to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights and former President of the American Bar Association; and Neal Sher, Chief of Staff, International Commission on Holocaust Era Insurance Claims and Immediate Past President of the American Section of IAJLJ.\n\n"}
{"id": "19977878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19977878", "title": "Iraqi Communist Vanguard Organisation", "text": "Iraqi Communist Vanguard Organisation\n\nIraqi Communist Vanguard Organisation was a political organization in Iraq. The organisation was set up by the Baathist regime after the break between the Baath Party and the Iraqi Communist Party in 1979. The Iraqi Communist Vanguard Organisation was used by the regime to issue criticism against the Communist Party, claiming that the Communist Party had 'given up the struggle'.\n"}
{"id": "46516586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46516586", "title": "Klein v. Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries", "text": "Klein v. Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries\n\nKlein, Sweet Cakes by Melissa, v. Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries was a legal case against a cake shop in Gresham, Oregon, in the United States. The cake shop gained widespread press attention in January 2013 when it turned away customers who wanted cakes for a same-sex wedding, who then made a complaint to the Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries, claiming their civil rights under the Oregon Equality Act had been infringed.\n\nOn January 17, 2013, a woman and her mother were invited to a Gresham, Oregon bakery called \"Sweet Cakes by Melissa\" (owned by couple Melissa Elaine Klein and Aaron Wayne Klein) for a scheduled wedding cake tasting appointment. The woman selected the bakery after having been a customer previously. Upon introductions, Aaron Klein asked for the names of the \"bride and groom,\" at which point the customer said there were actually two brides. On hearing this, Klein informed them that the bakery does not make wedding cakes for same-sex weddings because of their religious beliefs. When the woman's mother tried to object, Klein responded by quoting , which refers to male homosexual sex as an \"abomination.\"\n\nThe customer subsequently filed a complaint with Oregon's Bureau of Labor and Industries, 9 months later, alleging the bakery had discriminated against her and her fiancée because of their sexual orientation. Aaron Klein responded by posting a copy of the complaint's first page on their Facebook page, which contained the full names and contact information of the customer and her fiancée. When the couple discovered this, they had their lawyer contact Klein, who then removed the posting. While only up for a single day, this posting ultimately resulted in death threats against the couple and their family.\n\nOn February 1, 2013, news media became aware of the case despite the couple's efforts to avoid public attention. A few weeks after, a demonstration occurred outside the bakery criticizing their refusal to make the cake, though it was organized by individuals with no association with the original couple, and the couple did not attend it. After receiving extensive criticism on Facebook and in the news, the Kleins closed their storefront in September 2013, switching to operating the business from their home.\n\nIn April 2015, an administrative court made a preliminary decision to fine the business $135,000. The Kleins in turn opened a GoFundMe page, \"Support Sweet Cakes by Melissa\", which raised over $500,000 before it was shut down by GoFundMe, who stated that the campaign was not compatible with their terms of service. Go Fund Me later released a statement saying that the Klein’s would relieve all the donations. In a statement, GoFundMe confirmed that the funds raised before the appeal was shut down would still be available for withdrawal.\n\nThe administrative court's decision was confirmed in a final order by the Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries in July 2015. The final text of the order reads as follows:\n\nThe cease and desist order has been widely described as a gag order, and has brought national attention to this case on first amendment free speech grounds.\n\nThe Kleins stated that they would contest the Bureau's decision. However, after appealing for 6 months, Aaron Klein paid the final order with interest, though still stating he would continue to appeal the order on free speech grounds. In December 2017, an appeals court upheld the amount of the penalty, as well as making a determination that the original decision did not violate the Kleins' freedom of speech, as it simply \"requires their compliance with a neutral law.\"\n\nIn March 2018, the Kleins filed an appeal to the Oregon Supreme Court. In June 2018, the Oregon State Supreme Court refused to hear the case allowing the lower court rulings to stand. The Kleins have filed an appeal to the United States Supreme Court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47545264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47545264", "title": "Liga Feminista Costarricense", "text": "Liga Feminista Costarricense\n\nThe Liga Feminista Costarricense (Costa Rican Feminist League) was the first feminist organization formed in Costa Rica. In 1923, Mexican feminist Elena Arizmendi Mejia who was living in New York and publishing a magazine \"Feminismo Internacional\" (International Feminism) invited women all over the world to create subsidiaries of the International League of Iberian and Latin American Women on 12 October of that year. As a result, Ángela Acuña Braun called together a group to found the Liga Feminista Costarricense (LFC), first feminist organization in Costa Rica. The inaugural members were Acuña (president), Esther De Mezerville (vice president), Ana Rosa Chacón (secretary), and participants María Ester Acuña, Isabel Calderón, Lela Campos, Rosario Floripe, Lidia Fernández, América de Hern, Ana María Loaiza, Vitalia Madrigal, Marita O'Leary de Hine, Corina Rodríguez, María del Rosario Burgos, Marta Sancho, María Teresa Villegas and María Isabel Zamora.\n"}
{"id": "409637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409637", "title": "List of generic names of political parties", "text": "List of generic names of political parties\n\nThis list of generic names of political parties includes only generic party names, not overviews of parties, e.g. liberal and green parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "852994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=852994", "title": "List of liberal theorists", "text": "List of liberal theorists\n\nIndividual contributors to classical liberalism and political liberalism are associated with philosophers of the Enlightenment. Liberalism as a specifically named ideology begins in the late 18th century as a movement towards self-government and away from aristocracy. It included the ideas of self-determination, the primacy of the individual and the nation, as opposed to the state and religion, as being the fundamental units of law, politics and economy.\n\nSince then liberalism has broadened to include a wide range of approaches from Americans Ronald Dworkin, Richard Rorty, John Rawls and Francis Fukuyama as well as the Indian Amartya Sen and the Peruvian Hernando de Soto. Some of these people moved away from liberalism, while others espoused other ideologies before turning to liberalism. There are many different views of what constitutes liberalism, and some liberals would feel that some of the people on this list were not true liberals. It is intended to be suggestive rather than exhaustive. Theorists whose ideas were mainly typical for one country should be listed in that country's section of liberalism worldwide. Generally only \"thinkers\" are listed, politicians are only listed when they, beside their active political work, also made substantial contributions to liberal theory.\n\nAristotle (Athens, 384–322 BC) is revered among political theorists for his seminal work \"Politics\". He made invaluable contributions to liberal theory through his observations on different forms of government and the nature of man.\n\nHe begins with the idea that the best government provides an active and \"happy\" life for its people. Aristotle then considers six forms of government: Monarchy, Aristocracy, and Polity on one side as 'good' forms of government, and Tyranny, Oligarchy, and Democracy as 'bad' forms. Considering each in turn, Aristotle rejects Monarchy as infantilizing of citizens, Oligarchy as too profit-motivated, Tyranny as against the will of the people, Democracy as serving only to the poor, and Aristocracy (known today as Meritocracy) as ideal but ultimately impossible. Aristotle finally concludes that a polity—a combination between democracy and oligarchy, where most can vote but must choose among the rich and virtuous for governors—is the best compromise between idealism and realism.\n\nIn addition, Aristotle was a firm supporter of private property. He refuted Plato's argument for a collectivist society in which family and property are held in common: Aristotle makes the argument that when one's own son or land is rightfully one's own, one puts much more effort into cultivating that item, to the ultimate betterment of society. He references barbarian tribes of his time in which property was held in common, and the laziest of the bunch would always take away large amounts of food grown by the most diligent.\n\nNiccolò Machiavelli (Florence, 1469–1527), best known for his \"Il Principe\" was the founder of realist political philosophy, advocated republican government, citizen armies, division of power, protection of personal property, and restraint of government expenditure as being necessary to the liberties of a republic. He wrote extensively on the need for individual initiative—\"virtu\"—as an essential characteristic of stable government. He argued that liberty was the central good which government should protect, and that \"good people\" would make good laws, whereas people who had lost their virtue could maintain their liberties only with difficulty. His Discourses on Livy outlined realism as the central idea of political study and favored \"Republics\" over \"Principalities\".\n\nAnti-statist liberals consider Machiavelli's distrust as his main message, noting his call for a strong state under a strong leader, who should use any means to establish his position, whereas liberalism is an ideology of individual freedom and voluntary choices.\n\nDesiderius Erasmus (Netherlands, 1466–1536) was an advocate of humanism, critic of entrenched interests, irrationality and superstition. Erasmusian societies formed across Europe, to some extent in response to the turbulence of the Reformation.\nIn his \"De libero arbitrio diatribe sive collatio\" (1524), he analyzes the Lutheran exaggeration of the obvious limitations on human freedom.\n\nThomas Hobbes (England, 1588–1679) theorized that government is the result of individual actions and human traits, and that it was motivated primarily by \"interest\", a term which would become crucial in the development of a liberal theory of government and political economy, since it is the foundation of the idea that individuals can be self-governing and self-regulating. His work \"Leviathan\", did not advocate this viewpoint, but instead that only a strong government could restrain unchecked interest: it did, however, advance a proto-liberal position in arguing for an inalienable \"right of nature,\" the right to defend oneself, even against the state. Though his own ideological position is open to debate, his work influenced Locke, Hamilton, Jefferson, Madison and many other liberals, leading Strauss to identify Hobbes as the \"father of liberalism\".\n\nBaruch Spinoza (Netherlands, 1632–1677) is in his \"Tractatus Theologico-Politicus\" and \"Tractatus Politicus\" a proto-liberal defending the value of separation of church and state as well as forms of democracy. In the first mentioned book, Spinoza expresses an early criticism of religious intolerance and a defense of secular government. Spinoza was a thoroughgoing determinist who held that absolutely everything that happens occurs through the operation of necessity. For him, even human behaviour is fully determined, freedom being our capacity to know we are determined and to understand why we act as we do. So freedom is not the possibility to say \"no\" to what happens to us but the possibility to say \"yes\" and fully understand why things should necessarily happen that way.\n\nJohn Locke's (England, 1632–1704) notion that a \"government with the consent of the governed\" and man's natural rights—life, liberty, and estate (property) as well on tolerance, as laid down in \"A letter concerning toleration\" and \"Two treatises of government\"—had an enormous influence on the development of liberalism. Developed a theory of property resting on the actions of individuals, rather than on descent or nobility.\n\nJohn Trenchard (United Kingdom, 1662–1723) was co-author, with Thomas Gordon of \"Cato's Letters\". These newspaper essays condemned tyranny and advanced principles of freedom of conscience and freedom of speech and were a main vehicle for spreading the concepts that had been developed by John Locke.\n\nCharles de Montesquieu (France, 1689–1755)\n\nIn \"The Spirit of the Laws\", Montesquieu expounded the separation of powers in government and society. In government, Montesquieu encouraged division into the now standard legislative, judicial and executive branches; in society, he perceived a natural organization into king, the people and the aristocracy, with the latter playing a mediating role. \"I do not write to censor that which is established in any country whatsoever,\" Montesquieu disclaimed in the \"Laws\"; however, he did pay special attention to what he felt was the positive example of the constitutional system in England, which in spite of its evolution toward a fusion of powers, had moderated the power of the monarch, and divided Parliament along class lines.\n\nMontesquieu's work had a seminal impact on the American and French revolutionaries. Ironically, the least liberal element of his thought—his privileging of the aristocracy—was belied by both revolutions. Montesquieu's system came to fruition in America, a country with no aristocracy; in France, political maneuvering by the aristocracy led to the convocation of the 1789 Estates-General and popular revolt.\n\n\nThomas Gordon (United Kingdom, 169?–1750) was co-author, with John Trenchard of \"Cato's Letters\". These newspaper essays condemned tyranny and advanced principles of freedom of conscience and freedom of speech and were a main vehicle for spreading the concepts that had been developed by John Locke.\n\nFrançois Quesnay (France, 1694–1774)\n\nVoltaire (France, 1694–1778)\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau (Switzerland, 1712–1778)\n\nDenis Diderot (France, 1713–1784)\n\nJean le Rond d'Alembert (France, 1717–1783)\n\nRichard Price (United Kingdom, 1723–1791)\n\nAnders Chydenius (Finland (then a part of the Swedish realm), 1729–1803)\nHis book \"Den Nationale Winsten\" (engl. \"The National Gain\") proposed roughly same the ideas as Adam Smith's \"Wealth of Nations\", a decade earlier, including foundations of liberalism and capitalism and (roughly) the \"invisible hand\". He demanded complete economic and individual freedom, including the freedom of religion (although he was a priest), worker's rights to freely move and choose their professions and employers, the freedom of speech and trade and abolitions of all privileges and price and wage controls.\n\nHe was also a member of the Swedish four-estates parliament, elected three times as representative of the clergy in the northern and western parts of Finland. In his first parliamentary session, 1765–1766, he was very successful as a member of the subcommittee that wrote Sweden's famous Constitutional Law of the Freedom of Printing, Tryckfrihetsförordningen, of 1766. In this law Chydenius combined freedom of the press, and abolishment of the political censorship, with free access for the citizens to most government documents. Chydenius liberal system, where transparency reinforces press freedom, and the right for everyone to print the public document reinforces transparency, has been a fundamental constitutional principle in Sweden ever since, except for the years of royal autocracy 1772–1809. Chydenius model for press freedom and freedom of information was reestablished and strengthened in the Swedish Constitution 1809. It is now the foundation of the present Tryckfrihetsförordningen of 1949, which is one of the fundamental laws of Sweden.\n\nIn diluted form, and without the strong constitutional protection of the Swedish free press model, the principle of free access to public documents that originated in Chydenius law of 1766, has in recent decades been spread from Sweden to the Freedom of Information Acts of many countries. This way, Anders Chydenius, has become one of the older liberal thinkers that has most practical influence on politics and public administration of modern western societies.\n\nAn edition of Anders Chydenius Complete Works, in Finnish, Swedish and English, is under preparation by the Chydenius Foundation in Finland.\n\nAdam Smith (Great Britain, 1723–1790), often considered the founder of modern economics, was a key figure in formulating and advancing economic doctrine of free trade and competition. In his \"Wealth of Nations\" Adam Smith outlined the key idea that if the economy is basically left to its own devices, limited and finite resources will be put to ultimately their most efficient use through people acting purely in their self-interest. This concept has been quoted out of context by later economists as the invisible hand of the market.\n\nSmith also advanced property rights and personal civil liberties, including stopping slavery, which today partly form the basic liberal ideology. He was also opposed to stock-holding companies, what today is called a \"corporation\", because he predicated the self-policing of the free market upon the free association of moral individuals.\n\nImmanuel Kant (Germany, 1724–1804)\n\nAnne Robert Jacques Turgot (France, 1727–1781)\n\nJoseph Priestley (United Kingdom/United States, 1733–1804)\n\nAugust Ludwig von Schlözer (Germany, 1735–1809)\n\nPatrick Henry (United States, 1736–1799)\n\nThomas Paine (United Kingdom/United States, 1737–1809)\n\nThomas Jefferson (United States, 1743–1826) was the third President of the United States and author of the Declaration of Independence. He also wrote \"Notes on the State of Virginia\" and the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom. He was a champion of inalienable individual rights and the separation of church and state. His ideas were repeated in many other liberal revolutions around the world, including the (early) French Revolution.\n\nMarquis de Condorcet (France, 1743–1794)\n\nJeremy Bentham (United Kingdom, 1748–1832)\nAn early advocate of utilitarianism, animal welfare and women's rights. He had many students all around the world, including John Stuart Mill and several political leaders. Bentham demanded economic and individual freedom, including the separation of the state and church, freedom of expression, completely equal rights for women, the end of slavery and colonialism, uniform democracy, the abolition of physical punishment, also on children, the right for divorce, free prices, free trade and no restrictions on interest. Bentham was not a libertarian: he supported inheritance tax, restrictions on monopoly power, pensions, health insurance and other social security, but called for prudence and careful consideration in any such governmental intervention.\n\nEmmanuel Joseph Sieyès '(France, 1748–1836) played an important role in the opening years of the French Revolution, drafting the \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen\", expanding on the theory of national sovereignty, popular sovereignty, and representation implied in his pamphlet \"What is the Third Estate?\".\n\nAntoine Destutt de Tracy (1754–1836)\n\nAnne Louise Germaine de Staël (France, 1766–1817)\n\nBenjamin Constant (France, 1767–1830)\n\nJean-Baptiste Say (France, 1767–1832)\n\nWilhelm von Humboldt (Germany, 1767–1835)\n\nDavid Ricardo (United Kingdom, 1772–1823)\n\nJames Mill (United Kingdom, 1773–1836)\nAntoine-Elisée Cherbuliez (Switzerland, 1797–1869)\n\nFrédéric Bastiat (France, 1801–1850)\n\nClaude Frédéric Bastiat was a French classical liberal theorist, political economist, and member of the French assembly. He was notable for developing the important economic concept of opportunity cost.\n\nRifa'a al-Tahtawi (Egypt, 1801–1873)\n\nRifa'a al-Tahtawi (also spelt Tahtawy) was an Egyptian writer, teacher, translator, Egyptologist, renaissance intellectual and one of the early adapters to Islamic Modernism. In 1831, Tahtawi was part of the statewide effort to modernize the Egyptian infrastructure and education. Three of his published volumes were works of political and moral philosophy. They introduced his Egyptian audience to Enlightenment ideas such as secular authority and political rights and liberty; his ideas regarding how a modern civilized society ought to be and what constituted by extension a civilized or \"good Egyptian\"; and his ideas on public interest and public good. Tahtawi's work was the first effort in what became an Egyptian renaissance (\"nahda\") that flourished in the years between 1860–1940.\n\nThe Dutch statesman Johan Rudolf Thorbecke (Netherlands, 1798–1872) was the main theorist of Dutch liberalism in the nineteenth century, outlining a more democratic alternative to the absolute monarchy, the constitutional monarchy. The constitution of 1848 was mainly his work. His main theoretical article specifically labeled as 'liberal' was 'Over het hedendaagsche staatsburgerschap' (On Modern Citizenship) from 1844. He became prime minister in 1849, thus starting numerous fundamental reforms in Dutch politics.\n\nHarriet Martineau (United Kingdom, 1802–1876)\n\nRalph Waldo Emerson (United States, 1803–1882) was an American philosopher who argued that the basic principles of government were mutable, and that government is required only insofar as people are not self-governing. Proponent of Democracy, and of the idea that a democratic people must have a democratic ethics.\n\nAlexis de Tocqueville (France, 1805–1859)\n\nWilliam Lloyd Garrison (United States, 1805–1879)\n\nFriedrich Schiller (Germany, 1759–1805)\n\nJohn Stuart Mill (United Kingdom, 1806–1873) is one of the first champions of modern \"liberalism.\" As such, his work on political economy and logic helped lay the foundation for advancements in empirical science and public policy based on verifiable improvements. Strongly influenced by Bentham's utilitarianism, he disagrees with Kant's intuitive notion of right and formulates the \"highest normative principle\" of morals as:\n\"Actions are right in proportion as they tend to promote happiness; wrong as they tend to produce the reverse of happiness.\"\n\nSome consider Mill as the founder of Social liberalism. Although Mill was mainly for free markets, he accepted interventions in the economy, such as a tax on alcohol, if there were sufficient utilitarian grounds. Mill was also a champion of women's rights.\n\nJuan Bautista Alberdi (Argentina, 1810–1884)\n\nHenry David Thoreau (1817–1862)\n\nJacob Burckhardt (Switzerland, 1818–1897) State as derived from cultural and economic life\n\nHerbert Spencer (United Kingdom, 1820–1903), philosopher, psychologist, and sociologist, advanced what he called the \"Law of equal liberty\" and argued against liberal theory promoting more activist government, which he dubbed \"a new form of Toryism.\" He supported a state limited in its duties to the defense of persons and their property. For Spencer, voluntary cooperation was the hallmark of the most vibrant form of society, accommodating the widest diversity of members and the greatest diversity of goals. Spencer's evolutionary approach has been characterized as an extension of Adam Smith's \"invisible hand\" explanation of economic order; his extensive work on sympathy (in psychology as well as the foundation of ethics, particularly in \"The Data of Ethics\") explicitly carried on Smith's approach in \"The Theory of Moral Sentiments\". Spencer is frequently characterized as a leading Social Darwinist.\n\nİbrahim Şinasi (Ottoman Empire, 1826–1871), author, journalist, translator, and newspaper editor. He was the innovator of several fields: he wrote one of the earliest examples of an Ottoman play, he encouraged the trend of translating poetry from French into Turkish, he simplified the script used for writing the Ottoman Turkish language, and he was one of the first of the Ottoman writers to write specifically for the broader public. Şinasi used his newspapers, \"Tercüman-ı Ahvâl\" and \"Tasvir-i Efkâr\", to promote the proliferation of European Enlightenment ideals during the Tanzimat period, and he made the education of the literate Ottoman public his personal vocation. Though many of Şinasi's projects were incomplete at the time of his death, \"he was at the forefront of a number of fields and put his stamp on the development of each field so long as it contained unsolved problems.\" Şinasi, influenced by Enlightenment thought, saw freedom of expression as a fundamental right and used journalism in order to engage, communicate with, and educate the public. By speaking directly to the public about government affairs, Şinasi declared that state actions were not solely the interest of the government.\n\nThomas Hill Green (United Kingdom, 1836–1882)\n\nAuberon Herbert (United Kingdom, 1838–1906)\n\nCarl Menger (Austria, 1840–1921)\n\nWilliam Graham Sumner (United States, 1840–1910)\n\nLester Frank Ward (United States, 1841–1913)\nLester Ward was a botanist, paleontologist, and sociologist. He served as the first president of the American Sociological Association. Ward was a fierce and unrelenting critic of the laissez-faire policies advocated by Herbert Spencer and William Graham Sumner.\n\nWard's major works can be found here: \n\nOliver Wendell Holmes Jr. (United States, 1841–1935) was a jurist and writer. He wrote the influential book on legal theory \"The Common Law\", which traced the creation of individual rights from familial rights common under Roman and Feudal law, and presented the \"objective\" theory of judicial interpretation. Specifically that the standard for intent and culpability should be that of the \"reasonable man\", and that individuals can be said to objectively intend the reasonable consequences of their actions.\n\nLudwig Joseph Brentano (Germany, 1844–1931)\n\nTomáš Garrigue Masaryk (Czechoslovakia, 1850–1937)\n\nEugen von Böhm-Bawerk (Austria, 1851–1914)\n\nLouis Brandeis (1856–1941)\n\nThorstein Veblen (1857–1926) is best known as the author of \"Theory of the Leisure Class\". Veblen was influential to a generation of American liberalism searching for a rational basis for the economy beyond corporate consolidation and \"cut throat competition\". Veblen's central argument was that individuals require sufficient non-economic time to become educated citizens. He caustically attacked pure material consumption for its own sake, and the idea that utility equalled conspicuous consumption.\n\nJohn Dewey (United States, 1859–1952)\n\nFriedrich Naumann (Germany, 1860–1919)\n\nSanteri Alkio (Finland, 1862–1930)\n\nMax Weber (Germany, 1864–1920) was a theorist of state power and the relationship of culture to economics. Argued that there was a moral component to capitalism rooted in \"Protestant\" values. Weber was along with Friedrich Naumann active in the National Social Union and later in the German Democratic Party.\n\nLeonard Trelawny Hobhouse (United Kingdom, 1864–1929)\n\nBenedetto Croce (Italy, 1866–1952)\n\nWalther Rathenau (Germany, 1867–1922)\nLeo Chiozza Money (Britain, 1870–1944)\nAn Italian-born economic theorist who moved to Britain in the 1890s, where he made his name as a politician, journalist and author. In the early years of the 20th century his views attracted the interest of two future Prime Ministers, David Lloyd George and Winston Churchill. After a spell as Lloyd George's parliamentary private secretary, he was a Government minister in the latter stages of the First World War.\n\nAhmed Lutfi el-Sayed Pasha (Egypt, 1872–1963)\nAn Egyptian intellectual, anti-colonial activist and the first director of Cairo University. He was an influential person in the Egyptian nationalist movement and used his position in the media to strive and gain an independent Egypt from British rule. He was also one of the architects of modern Egyptian nationalism as well as the architect of Egyptian secularism and liberalism. He was fondly known as the \"Professor of the Generation\". Lutfi was one of the fiercest opponents of pan-Arabism, insisting that Egyptians are Egyptians and not Arabs. He is considered one of the most influential scholars and intellectuals in the history of Egypt.\n\nWilliam Beveridge (United Kingdom, 1879–1963)\n\nLudwig von Mises (Austria/United States, 1881–1973)\n\nJosé Ortega y Gasset (Spain, 1883–1955)\n\nSalvador de Madariaga (Spain, 1886–1978). One of the principal authors of the Oxford Manifesto in 1947.\n\nAdolf Berle (United States, 1895–1971) was author of \"The Modern Corporation and Private Property\", detailing the importance of differentiating between the management of corporations and the share holders who are the owners. Influential in the theory of New Deal policy.\n\nWilhelm Röpke (Germany, 1899–1966)\n\nBertil Ohlin (Sweden, 1899–1979)\n\nFriedrich Hayek (Austria/United Kingdom/United States/Germany, 1899–1992) In Hayek's view, the central role of the state should be to maintain the rule of law, with as little arbitrary intervention as possible. Also a Nobel Prize winner in economics and predicter of the Great Depression like fellow Austrian School economist and mentor Ludwig von Mises.\n\nKarl Raimund Popper (Austria/United Kingdom, 1902–1994) developed the idea of the open society, characterized by respect for a wide variety of opinions and behaviors and a preference for audacious but piecemeal political reform over either conservative stasis or revolutionary utopianism. In his view, all simplistic and grandiose theories of history and society shared a common feature he called historicism, which he traces back to Plato, while the open society mirrors the methodological fallibilism pioneered by Popper in his earlier works on philosophy of science.\n\nAlan Paton (South Africa, 1903–1988) contributed with his book \"Cry, The beloved country\" to a clear anti-apartheid stand of South African liberalism. His party, the Liberal Party of South Africa was banned by the apartheid government.\n\nAyn Rand (United States, 1905-1982) was a radical and influential moral and political philosopher. Her advocacy of strong self-interest in ethics was influenced by the liberal thinkers Aristotle, Aquinas, and Locke. Her advocacy of pure laissez-faire capitalism was influenced by the classical liberal economists Mises and Hayek.\n\nRaymond Aron (France, 1905–1983)\n\nDonald Barkly Molteno (South Africa, 1908–1972), known as \"Dilizintaba\" (\"He who removes mountains\"), was a constitutional lawyer and a parliamentarian but above all, an academic. His work on constitutional law centred on civil rights and his fierce opposition to the segregationalist policies of Apartheid.\n\nJohn Kenneth Galbraith (Canadian-born economist who worked in the United States, 1908–2006)\n\nIsaiah Berlin (Latvia/United Kingdom, 1909–1997) is most famous for his attempt to distinguish 'two conceptions of liberty'. Berlin argued that what he called 'positive' and 'negative' liberty were mutually opposing concepts. Positive conceptions assumed that liberty could only be achieved when collective power (in the form of church or state) acted to 'liberate' mankind from its worst aspects. These, Berlin felt, tended towards totalitarianism. Negative conceptions, by contrast, argued that liberty was achieved when individuals were given maximal freedom from external constraints (so long as these did not impinge on the freedom of others to achieve the same condition). Berlin was also a critic of dogmatic Enlightenment rationalism on the grounds that it was unable to accommodate value pluralism.\n\nMilton Friedman (United States, 1912–2006), winner of a Nobel Prize in Economics and a self-identified Classical Liberal and libertarian, was known for the Friedman rule, Friedman's k-percent rule, and the Friedman test.\n\nJames Buchanan (United States, 1919–2013) is known for his economic theories of the political process, which were among the first to take seriously the concept of politicians as rational actors that respond to incentives.\n\nJohn Rawls (United States, 1921–2002) is widely considered one of the most important English-language political philosophers of the 20th century. There is general agreement that the publication of his landmark work, \"A Theory of Justice\", led to a revival in the academic study of political philosophy. The importance of this book in contemporary liberal thought and social contract theory is perhaps best described by an early libertarian rival and critic, Robert Nozick, who called it a \"work in political and moral philosophy that has not seen its equal since the writings of John Stuart Mill, if then... Political philosophers must now work within Rawls' theory or explain why not.\" (Nozick, Anarchy, State, and Utopia, p. 183) Some of Rawls's contributions include the ideas of Justice as Fairness, the original position, reflective equilibrium, overlapping consensus, public reason, and the veil of ignorance. Rawls has the distinction among contemporary political philosophers of being frequently cited by the courts of law in the United States and referred to by practicing politicians in the United Kingdom.\n\nMurray Rothbard (United States, 1926–1995) was the originator of modern anarcho-capitalism and an economist and economic historian of the Austrian school. He is widely considered one of the foremost advocates of liberty and freedom in the late 20th century. He was involved with various political movements throughout his life, notably with Ayn Rand and, later, the Libertarian Party of United States. His influence is lasting in the libertarian and anarcho-capitalist movements.\n\nRalf Dahrendorf (Germany/United Kingdom, 1929–2009 )\n\nThe journalist Karl-Hermann Flach (Germany, 1929–1973) was in his book \"Noch eine Chance für die Liberalen\" one of the main theorist of the new social liberal principles of the Free Democratic Party (Germany). He places liberalism clearly as the opposite of conservatism and opened the road for a government coalition with the social democrats.\n\nJoseph Raz (United Kingdom)\n\nRonald Dworkin (United States, 1931–2013)\n\nRichard Rorty (United States, 1931–2007) was one of the leading contemporary philosophers of liberalism. His fundamental claims, among others, are that liberalism is best defined as the attempt to avoid cruelty to others; that liberals need to accept the historical 'irony' that there is no metaphysical justification for their belief that not being cruel is a virtue; that literature plays a crucial role in developing the empathy necessary to promote solidarity (and therefore lack of cruelty) between humans; and that private philosophising and public political discourse are separate practices and should remain so.\n\nAmartya Sen (India, 1933– ) is an economist whose early work was based on Kenneth Arrow's General Possibility Theorem, and on the impossibility of both complete pareto optimality and solely procedural based rights. Won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on famine, welfare economics and social choice theory. Advocate of rationality as the fundamental safe guard of freedom and justice.\n\nRobert Nozick (United States, 1938–2002) was a libertarian (or minarchist). He advocated an unapologetically reductionist political philosophy characterized by meticulous analysis of the moral aspects of each social interaction, and did not shy away from addressing hard philosophical issues such as the original appropriation of property. Nozick is best known for providing the justification of a minimal state by showing that it can be established without any unjust steps.\n\nThe economist Hernando de Soto (Peru, 1941– ) is an advocate of transparency and private property rights, arguing that intransparent government leads to property not being given proper title, and therefore being \"dead capital\" which cannot be used as the basis of credit. Argues that laws which allocate property to those most able to use them for economic growth, so called \"squatter's rights\", are an important innovation.\n\nCarlos Santiago Nino (Argentina, 1943–1993)\n\nBruce Ackerman (United States, 1943– )\n\nWill Kymlicka (Canada, 1962– ) tries in his philosophy to determine if forms of ethnic or minority nationalism are compatible with liberal-democratic principles of individual freedom, social equality and political democracy. In his book \"Multicultural Citizenship. A Liberal Theory of Minority Rights\" he argues that certain \"group-differentiated rights\" of minority cultures can be consistent with these liberal-democratic principles.\n"}
{"id": "1118624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1118624", "title": "List of post-confederation Nova Scotia general elections", "text": "List of post-confederation Nova Scotia general elections\n\nThis article provides a summary of results for the general elections to the Canadian province of Nova Scotias unicameral legislative body, the Nova Scotia House of Assembly. The number of seats has varied over time, from a low of thirty during the 1930s and early 1940s, to the current high of fifty-two. This article only covers elections since Nova Scotia became part of the newly formed Canadian Confederation in 1867. Prior to that, Nova Scotia was a British colony. The Nova Scotia House of Assembly dates back to 1758, and Nova Scotia became the first British colony to be granted responsible government from London in 1848.\n\nThe chart on the upper right provides a graphical summary of the results, with the most recent elections towards the right. It shows how the Liberal party (red) dominated the province's early political history, winning nineteen of the first twenty-two elections from 1867 to 1953; and that since 1953, the Conservatives (blue) have been the most successful party, winning eleven of the fifteen elections since then. The New Democratic Party (orange), after winning Official Opposition status in four consecutive elections, finally achieved government for the first time in the 2009 election.\n\nThe table below shows the total number of seats won by the major political parties at each election. It also shows the percentage of the vote obtained by the major political parties at each election, if greater than 0.1%. The winning party's totals are shown in bold. To date, no party has formed a government that did not have the largest share of the vote. Full details on any election are linked via the number of the election at the start of the row.\n\n"}
{"id": "18003048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18003048", "title": "Major party", "text": "Major party\n\nA major party is a political party that holds substantial influence in a country's politics, standing in contrast to a minor party. It should not be confused with majority party.\n\nAccording to the Merriam-Webster Dictionary:\nMajor parties hold a significant percentage of the vote in elections and claim higher membership than minor parties. Typically, major parties have the most donors, best-organized support networks and excellent funding for elections. Their candidates for political positions are closely watched since they have the highest chance of being elected to office because of the high membership, recognition and donations that these parties are able to generate.\n\nTwo major parties can lead to a two-party system. If there is only one major party, then it is a dominant-party system. In a multi-party system, a major party is one that occasionally controls the presidency or premiership and is the most influential party in a coalition government.\n\n"}
{"id": "4902047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4902047", "title": "Meeting house", "text": "Meeting house\n\nA meeting house (meetinghouse, meeting-house) is a building where religious and sometimes public meetings take place.\n\nThe colonial meeting house in America was typically the first public building built as new villages sprang up. A meeting-house had a dual purpose as a place of worship and for public discourse, but sometimes only for \"...the service of God.\" As the towns grew and the separation of church and state in the United States matured the buildings which were used as the seat of local government were called a town-house or town-hall.\n\nMany nonconformist Christian denominations distinguish between a\n\nThe nonconformist meeting houses generally do not have steeples, with the term \"steeplehouses\" being used to describe traditional or establishment religious buildings. \nChristian denominations which use the term \"meeting house\" to refer to the building in which they hold their worship include:\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary states that a meeting house in England is always a \"...nonconformist or dissenting place of worship...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55607783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55607783", "title": "Minister Assisting the President of Nauru", "text": "Minister Assisting the President of Nauru\n\nMinister Assisting the President of Nauru is a senior position in the Cabinet of Nauru, and responsible for acting as a substitute of the President of Nauru. The President appoints the person holding this position among the members of the cabinet. \n\nMinister Assisting the President of Nauru succeeded to Presidency once. Bernard Dowiyogo died in March 2003, and was succeeded by Derog Gioura. \n"}
{"id": "48558916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48558916", "title": "Ministry of Education (United Arab Emirates)", "text": "Ministry of Education (United Arab Emirates)\n\nThe Ministry of Education (MoE, ) is a government ministry of the United Arab Emirates. It has its main offices in Abu Dhabi and Dubai.\n\n"}
{"id": "45508329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45508329", "title": "NHS Credit Union", "text": "NHS Credit Union\n\nNHS (Scotland and North England) Credit Union Limited is a not-for-profit member-owned financial co-operative, based in Glasgow and operating throughout Scotland and the north of England. It has 9,100 members and manages over £12m in savings.\n\nThe credit union was formed as Glasgow NHS Employees Credit Union in 1998, on the initiative of the UNISON Southern General Hospital Branch Secretary, with the support of the then Greater Glasgow Health Board. It became West of Scotland NHS Employees Credit Union in 2003, before adopting the present name in 2009. NHS Credit Union is a registered trading name of NHS (Scotland and North England) Credit Union.\n\nIn 2015, the credit union was awarded a grant of £100,000 by the Lloyds Banking Group Credit Union Development Fund to increase its capital asset ratio to support growth in both membership and assets.\n\nMembership of NHS Credit Union is currently restricted by common bond to NHS employees in Scotland and the North of England (North East, North West and Yorkshire & Humberside regions) and their families living at the same address.\n\nA member of the Association of British Credit Unions, registered under the Industrial and Provident Societies Acts, NHS Credit Union is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and PRA. Ultimately, like the banks and building societies, members’ savings are protected against business failure by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3420451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3420451", "title": "Nationalism and Ethnic Conflict (Current Controversies)", "text": "Nationalism and Ethnic Conflict (Current Controversies)\n\nNationalism and Ethnic Conflict is a 1994 book in the Current Controversies series, presenting selections of contrasting viewpoints on five central questions about nationalism and ethnic conflict: whether nationalism is beneficial; whether ethnic violence is ever justified; what the causes of ethnic conflict are; whether nations should intervene in ethnic conflicts; and how ethnic conflict can be prevented. It was edited by Charles P. Cozic.\n\nIt was published by Greenhaven Press (San Diego) in 1994 as a 288-page hardcover () and paperback ().\n"}
{"id": "50974573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50974573", "title": "Nirbhaya Vahini", "text": "Nirbhaya Vahini\n\nNirbhaya Vahini is a volunteer unit of the Honour for Women National Campaign. It was founded in January 2014 to help mobilize public opinion and launch a sustained campaign for the implementation of the movement’s Four-Point charter of demand.\n\nNirbhaya Vahini is composed of thousands of volunteers drawn from all states of India. The volunteers range from working women, housewives to students.\n\n1. Complete clamp down on liquor trade \n\n2. Self-defence training for women as part of educational curriculum\n\n3. Special protection force for women security in every district\n\n4. Fast-track court and special investigating & prosecuting wing in every district\n"}
{"id": "1023994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1023994", "title": "Norwegian Academy", "text": "Norwegian Academy\n\nThe Norwegian Academy for Language and Literature (), commonly known as the Norwegian Academy, is a Norwegian learned body on matters pertaining to the modern Norwegian language in its Dano-Norwegian variety, now commonly known as Riksmål and Bokmål. The academy was established in the Norwegian government's honorary residence Grotten in 1953 based on the model of the Swedish Academy and the French Academy, but the idea was originally conceived by Bjørn Bjørnson in 1913. Its members are elected for life on the basis of scholarly, literary or artistic merits. The academy publishes the main dictionary of Norwegian, \"Det Norske Akademis ordbok\" (\"Dictionary of the Norwegian Academy\"), is responsible for regulating the written standard known as Riksmål (\"National Language\") and has a literary and cultural purpose. The academy awards the Norwegian Academy Prize in memory of Thorleif Dahl.\n\nThe academy was founded in 1953 by several notable Norwegian authors and poets, among them Arnulf Øverland, Sigurd Hoel, A.H. Winsnes, Cora Sandel and Francis Bull. They disagreed with the official language policy aiming to merge \"Bokmål\" with \"Nynorsk\" and protested against what they called state discrimination against the dominant Norwegian written standard \"Riksmål\". This was Norway's \"de facto\" written language, used by most large newspapers and by the majority of the population as a written standard (although not necessarily a spoken one). The Academy was modelled after the Swedish Academy and the French Academy.\n\nIn addition to regulating Riksmål, the most conservative and Danish-near form of Norwegian, the academy publishes dictionaries and supports the publishing of literature in Riksmål. To-day, after several reforms worth in the official Bokmål and in the traditional Riksmål, Bokmål in its \"moderate\" version and modern Riksmål coincide.\n\nThe Academy has 50 members (2017), each of whom is a specialist in miscellaneous areas of analysis, investigation and expertise. These include Nordic studies, German, English and French languages and literature, history, philosophy, law, political science, poetry et cetera. The President of the Academy is Nils Heyerdahl, former Head of Radio Drama in NRK, and the \"Presidium\" also consists of Vice President Helene Uri, linguist and author, as well as Per Qvale, translator and author Karin Gundersen, professor of French Literature and Erik Fosnes Hansen, author.\n\nThe Norwegian Academy for Language and Literature was represented, along with other non-governmental language organisations, in the Norwegian Language Council, which regulates the official \"Bokmål\" and \"Nynorsk\" languages, since its establishment in 1972 until it was reorganized in 2005.\n\nIn 1981, the Academy merged with Riksmålsvernet, founded in 1919.\n\nThe following are current members of the Norwegian Academy for Language and Literature:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36193557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36193557", "title": "Overseas constituencies of the Italian Parliament", "text": "Overseas constituencies of the Italian Parliament\n\nThe Italian Parliament is one of the few legislatures in the world to reserve seats for those citizens residing abroad. There are twelve such seats in the Chamber of Deputies and six in the Senate of the Republic.\n\nThe Overseas Constituency (Circoscrizione Estero, or \"Foreign district\") consists of four electoral zones, each of which elect at least one Deputy and one Senator:\n\n\nThe remaining seats are distributed between the same overseas electoral zones in proportion to the number of Italian citizens resident in each.\n\nItalian citizens living outside of Italy have always had the \"right\" to vote in all referendums and elections being held in Italy (provided they had registered their residence abroad with their relevant consulate). However, until late 2001, any citizen wishing to vote was required \"physically\" to return to the city or town in Italy where he or she was registered on the electoral roll. The only exception to this rule was for the Italian elections to the European Parliament, in which voters could cast their ballot at their nearest consulate, but only if they had their residence in one of the other EU countries.\n\nUntil 2001 the Italian Republic offered citizens living abroad a free return train journey to their home town in Italy in order to vote. However, the only portion of the train journey that was free of charge was \"on Italian soil\". Any costs incurred in getting from their place of residence abroad to the Italian border had to be covered by the citizen wanting to vote. Therefore, a free return train journey was hardly an incentive for the large Italian communities living as far away as in the United States, Argentina or Australia. For this reason very few Italians abroad made use of this right to vote, unless they lived in cities and towns that bordered Italy, such as in Germany, Switzerland, France and Austria. Various Italian minorities living abroad (notably in the United States) protested frequently at this lack of political representation, especially if they paid taxes on property owned in Italy; some of them also demand that the rights of the Italian citizens living outside of the Italian peninsula (e.g. Sardinia), such as travel tickets and/or free flights to Italy, be extended to all Italian voters.\n\nAfter numerous years of petitioning and fierce debate, the Italian government, in late 2001, finally passed a law allowing Italian citizens living abroad to vote in elections in Italy by postal ballot. Italians wishing to exercise this right must first register their residence abroad with their relevant consulate. The first vote by Italians living abroad by postal ballot was for 2 referendums in 2003 and for both chambers of the Italian parliament in 2006: twelve seats in the Chamber of Deputies and six seats in the Senate of the Republic.\n\nIn 2016, a constitutional referendum was held in order to change the Constitution of Italy. The proposed constitution, put forward by the then Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, would eliminate the seats assigned to the overseas constituencies in the Senate of the Republic. Almost 60% of voters voted against the constitutional reform, which therefore was rejected, and Renzi tendered his resignation. However, Italians living abroad voted the opposite way (with 65% saying 'yes'), thus asking to eliminate their own seats in the Senate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "189821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189821", "title": "Papal coronation", "text": "Papal coronation\n\nA papal coronation was the ceremony of the placing of the papal tiara on a newly elected pope. The first recorded papal coronation was that of Nicholas I in 858. The last was the 1963 coronation of Paul VI, who soon afterwards abandoned the practice of wearing the tiara. None of his successors have used the tiara, and their papal inauguration celebrations have included no coronation ceremony.\n\nThe papal inauguration celebration, with or without a coronation, has only symbolic significance, as a pope assumes office immediately on giving his consent to a valid election.\n\nIn Spanish, the term \"Coronación Pontificia\" (English: \"pontifical coronation\") is sometimes used for the canonical coronation of religious images by via a formal expressed decree by a reigning Pope. \n\nWhen a conclave elects a new pope, he assumes all of the rights and authority of the papacy immediately upon his acceptance of election; however, popes traditionally numbered their regnal years from the date of their coronation. If a newly elected pope is not a bishop, he is consecrated at once. In accordance with tradition, the right of consecration belongs to the Dean of the College of Cardinals, in his absence to the Subdean, and in the absence of both of these, to the senior Cardinal Bishop. If the new pope is already a bishop, as is normally the case, his election is announced immediately to the people gathered in Saint Peter's Square and he gives them his blessing.\n\nThe episcopal enthronement of the pope takes place in his cathedral, the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran. This ceremony was once combined with the coronation. During the Avignon papacy, the pope, being in France, could not be enthroned in his cathedral in Rome. The coronations continued, while enthronements had to await a return to Rome. When Gregory XI did return to Rome, the Lateran Palace was badly in need of repair, so the popes made the Vatican their residence and transferred coronations to Saint Peter's Basilica. The Lateran Basilica remains the cathedral of Rome, and the enthronement occurs there. During the \"prisoner in the Vatican\" period, the enthronement did not take place.\n\nThe coronation took place on the first Sunday or Holy Day following the election. It began with a solemn Papal Mass. During the chanting of Terce, he sat on a throne and all of the cardinals made what was called their \"first obeisance\" to him, approaching one by one and kissing his hand. Then the archbishops and bishops approached and kissed his feet.\n\nFollowing this, at least from the beginning of the 16th century, the newly elected pope was carried in state through St. Peter's Basilica on the \"sedia gestatoria\", under a white canopy, with the papal flabella (ceremonial fans) to either side. Instead of the papal tiara, he wore a jewelled mitre (the episcopal \"mitra pretiosa\"). Three times, the procession was stopped, and a bundle of flax lashed to a gilded staff was burnt before the newly elected pontiff, while a master of ceremonies said: \"Pater Sancte, sic transit gloria mundi\" (Holy Father, thus passes the glory of the world) as a symbolic reminder to set aside materialism and vanity. Once at the high altar, he would begin to celebrate Solemn High Mass with full papal ceremonial.\n\nAfter the \"Confiteor\", the pope was seated on the sedia gestatoria, which was resting on the ground, and the three senior cardinal bishops approached him wearing mitres. Each in turn placed his hands above him and said the prayer, \"Super electum Pontificem\" (over the elected pope). First the Cardinal Bishop of Albano said:God, who are present without distinction whenever the devout mind invokes you, be present, we ask you, we and this your servant, __, who to the summit of the apostolic community has been chosen as the judge of your people, infuse with the highest blessings that he experience your gift who has reached this point.\n\nThen the Cardinal Bishop of Porto said:We supplicate you, Almighty God, effect your customary devotion and pour out on this your servant, __, the grace of the Holy Spirit that he who is constituted at the head of our church as the servant of the mystery, you would strengthen with the fullness of virtue.\n\nFinally the Cardinal Bishop of Ostia said:God, who willed your Apostle Peter to hold first place in the inner fellowship of the apostles, that universal Christianity overcome evil, look propitiously we ask on this your servant, __, who from a humble position has suddenly been enthroned with the apostles on this same principal sublimity, that just as he has been raised to this exalted dignity, so may he likewise merit to accumulate virtue; in bearing the burden of the universal church, help him, make him worthy and for thee who are blessed may merits replace vices.\n\nThen, the senior cardinal deacon placed the pallium on his shoulders saying: Accept the pallium, representing the plenitude of the Pontifical office, to the honour of Almighty God, and the most glorious Virgin Mary, his Mother, and the Blessed Apostles Peter and Paul, and the Holy Roman Church.\n\nIn the 11th and 12th centuries, the \"immantatio\", or bestowal of the mantum (a papal vestment consisting of a very long red cope fastened with an elaborate morse) on the newly elected pope was regarded as especially symbolic of investiture with papal authority, and was conferred with the words: \"I invest thee with the Roman papacy, that thou rule over the city and the world.\"\n\nAfter the investiture with the pallium, the pope incensed the high altar and then went to the Throne, placed on the choir side, between the Altar of the Confession and the Altar of the Chair, and there, during the singing of the Kyrie, he received again the obeisance of the cardinals, archbishops and bishops. Then the Mass continued. After the Gloria in excelsis and the \"Pax vobis\", the pope said the Collect for the day and then secretly a prayer for himself. After the pope had returned again to his seat the Papal \"Laudes\" were chanted:\n\nAs with all Papal High Masses, the Epistle and the Gospel were read in both Greek and Latin and the pope communicated at his throne.\n\nAfter the Mass, the new pope was crowned with the papal tiara. This frequently took place on the balcony of St. Peter's Basilica, overlooking the crowds gathered in St. Peter's Square. The pope was seated on a throne with the flabella to either side of him. After the Dean of the College of Cardinals recited a few prayers, including the Lord's Prayer and a collect, the senior cardinal deacon, the protodeacon, removed the pope's mitre and placed the tiara on his head with the words:\n\n\"Accipe tiaram tribus coronis ornatam, et scias te esse patrem principum et regum, rectorem orbis in terra vicarium Salvatoris nostri Jesu Christi, cui est honor et gloria in saecula saeculorum\" (Receive the tiara adorned with three crowns, and know that you are the father of princes and kings, the ruler of the world, the vicar of our Savior Jesus Christ on earth, to whom is honor and glory, world without end).\n\nFollowing his coronation, the pope imparted the solemn papal blessing \"Urbi et Orbi\".\n\nThe last act of the inauguration of a new pope is still the formal taking possession (\"possessio\") of his cathedra as Bishop of Rome in the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran. This is the final ceremony mentioned in Pope John Paul II's Apostolic Constitution on the vacancy of the Apostolic See and the election of the Roman Pontiff. The pope is enthroned in the same manner as other bishops. He is solemnly conducted to the episcopal throne, and takes possession by seating himself on it. He receives the kiss of peace and listens to the reading of a passage of Holy Scripture, whereupon he pronounces an address that used to be called the \"sermo inthronisticus\".\n\nIn ancient times, the letters that the pope sent to the patriarchs in token of being in communion with them in the same faith were called \"litterae inthronisticae\" or \"syllabai enthronistikai\".\n\nThe earliest papal coronations took place in St. John Lateran, the pope's cathedral. However, for hundreds of years papal coronations have traditionally taken place in the environs of St. Peter's Basilica, though a number of coronations took place in Avignon, during the Avignon papacy. Earlier, Pope Celestine V was twice crowned in L'Aquila. In 1800 Pope Pius VII was crowned in the crowded church of the Benedictine island monastery of San Giorgio, Venice, after his late predecessor, Pope Pius VI, had been forced into temporary exile during Napoleon Bonaparte's capture of Rome. Since the French seized the tiara along with the previous pope, he was crowned with a papier-mâché tiara, for which the ladies of Venice gave up their jewels.\n\nAll coronations after 1800 took place in Rome. Leo XIII was crowned in the Sistine Chapel, due to fears that anti-clerical mobs, inspired by Italian unification, might attack the Basilica and disrupt the ceremony. Benedict XV was also crowned in the chapel in 1914. Pius XI was crowned at the dais in front of the High Altar in St. Peter's Basilica. Popes Pius IX, Pius XII, and John XXIII, all were crowned in public on the balcony of the basilica, facing crowds assembled below in St. Peter's Square. Paul VI was crowned in front of St Peter's on a special dais. The entire coronation ceremony had taken place outdoors as St Peter's was filled with special seating for the Vatican Council sessions and so unavailable for the coronation.\n\nPius XII's 1939 coronation broke new ground by being the first to be filmed and the first coronation to be broadcast live on radio. The ceremony, which lasted for six hours, was attended by leading dignitaries; these included the heir to the Italian throne, the Prince of Piedmont, former kings Ferdinand I of Bulgaria and Alfonso XIII of Spain, the Duke of Norfolk (representing King George VI of the United Kingdom), and the Irish Taoiseach Éamon de Valera, the last two being in evening dress (white tie and tails).\n\nThe last pope to be crowned was Paul VI. Though he decided to cease wearing a papal tiara within weeks of his coronation, and laid his own on the altar of St. Peter's Basilica in a gesture of humility, his 1975 Apostolic Constitution, \"Romano Pontifici Eligendo\", still prescribed that \"the new pontiff is to be crowned by the senior cardinal deacon.\"\n\nNevertheless, his successor, John Paul I, opted not to be crowned and to have a less formal \"solemn Mass to mark the start of his ministry as Supreme Pastor\" in September 1978.\n\nAfter John Paul I's sudden death following a thirty-three-day reign, the new pope, John Paul II, opted to copy his predecessor's ceremony without coronation. In his homily at his inauguration Mass, he said that Paul VI had \"left his successors free to decide\" whether to wear the papal tiara. He went on:\nJohn Paul II's 1996 Apostolic Constitution, \"Universi Dominici gregis\", now in force, does not specify the form that the \"solemn ceremony of the inauguration of the pontificate\" of a new pope should take, whether with or without a coronation.\n\nExisting papal tiaras remain available for any future pope who may choose to use one. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2585824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2585824", "title": "Post-capitalism", "text": "Post-capitalism\n\nPost-capitalism includes a number of proposals for a new economic system to replace capitalism, examine more advanced forms, or otherwise speculate on the fate of the current form of the social order. According to some classical Marxist and some social evolutionary theories, post-capitalist societies may come about as a result of spontaneous evolution as capitalism becomes obsolete. Others propose models to intentionally replace capitalism. The most notable among them are socialism and anarchism.\n\nIn 1993, Peter Drucker outlined a possible evolution of capitalistic society in his book \"Post-Capitalist Society\". The book stated that knowledge, rather than capital, land, or labor, is the new basis of wealth. The classes of a fully post-capitalist society are expected to be divided into knowledge workers or service workers, in contrast to the capitalists and proletarians of a capitalist society. In the book, Drucker estimated the transformation to post-capitalism would be completed in 2010–2020.\n\nDrucker also argued for rethinking the concept of intellectual property by creating a universal licensing system. Consumers would subscribe, for a cost and producers would assume that everything is reproduced and freely distributed through social networks.\n\nIn 2015, according to Paul Mason the rise of income inequality, repeating cycles of unemployment and inflation and capitalism’s contributions to global warming had led both economists and philosophers to begin seriously considering post-capitalistic societies. Post-capitalism is expected to arise with further advances in automation and information sharing – both of which cause production costs to approach zero.\n\nThe emergence of post-capitalist dynamics were made possible through three major changes that were brought by the evolution and increasing sophistication of information technology. A first driver is a new dynamic that information technology brought to the workplace. Through increased connectivity the reachability of employees was improved and the lines between working hours and free time became blurred. In addition to that, the technological era led to an abundance of information that is easily retainable for everyone. While some industries only continued to exist due to information scarcity and secrecy, the market became disrupted by the emergence of new competitors that were able to enter the market and benefit from large sources of publicly-available information. A result of this was the increase in acquisition activities since the early 2000s which tried to counter decreasing margins through consolidation and monopoly building. A third dynamic that emerged from new technology was crowd-funding and crowd-sourcing. Crowd-funding led to a new option for corporate finance, which was often achieved for socially-accepted innovations. Crowd-sourcing on the other hand challenged the traditional employee-employer relationship under capitalism as people started to voluntarily contribute to product developments with a distinctive skill, such as programming or designing. A major reward for people engaged in crowd-sourcing is not monetary compensation, but the intrinsic reward of having a stake in an active development.\n\nSocialism often implies public ownership of companies and a planned economy, though it is argued whether either are essential features. In his book \"\", Paul Mason argues that centralized planning, even with the advanced technology of today, is unachievable. Alternatively, Michael Albert and Robin Hahnel argue that central planning is key to creating a participatory economy.\n\nFor post-capitalism to come from a socialist standpoint, a political and cultural transformation would need to occur alongside the economic transformation.\n\nAs Robin Hahnel states: \n\nHelpful definitions involving socialism:\n\nIn his book \"Of the People, By the People: The Case for a Participatory Economy\", Robin Hahnel describes a post-capitalist economy called the participatory economy. The book ends with the proposal of the Green New Deal, a package of policies that address climate change and financial crises.\n\nThe participatory economy focuses on the participation of all citizens through the creation of worker councils and consumer councils. Hahnel emphasizes the direct participation of worker and consumers rather than appointing representatives. The councils are concerned with large-scale issues of production and consumption and are broken into various bodies tasked with researching future development projects.\n\nIn a participatory economy, economic rewards would be offered according to need, the amount of which would be determined democratically by the workers council. Hahnel also calls for \"economic justice\" by rewarding people for their effort and diligence rather than accomplishments or prior ownership. A worker’s effort is to be determined by their co-workers. Consumption rights are then rewarded according to the effort ratings. The worker has the choice to decide what they consume using their consumption rights. Hahnel does not address the idea of money, currency, or how consumption rights would be tracked.\n\nPlanning in a participatory economy is done through the councils. The process is horizontal across the committees as opposed to vertical. All council members, the workers and consumers, participate directly in planning unlike in Soviet-type economies and other democratic planning proposals in which planning is done by representatives. Planning is an iterative procedure, always being changed and improved upon, that is accomplished at the level of either work or consumption. All information and proposals are freely available to everyone, those inside and outside of the council, so that the social cost of each proposal can be determined and voted on. Long-term plans such as structuring public transportation, residential zones and recreational areas, are to be proposed by delegates and approved by direct democracy (i.e. voting by the population).\n\nHahnel argues that a participatory economy will return empathy to our purchasing choices. Capitalism removes the knowledge of how and by whom a product was made: \"When we eat a salad the market systematically deletes information about the migrant workers who picked it\". By removing the human element from goods, consumers only consider their own satisfaction and need when consuming products. Introducing worker and consumer councils would reintroduce the knowledge of where, how and by whom products were manufactured. A participatory economy is expected to also introduce more socially oriented goods, such as parks, clean air, and public health care, through the interaction of the two councils.\n\nFor those that call the participatory economy utopian, Albert and Hahnel counter: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34758905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34758905", "title": "Purge (occupied Japan)", "text": "Purge (occupied Japan)\n\nThe Purge in Japan was the prohibition of designated Japanese people from engaging in public service, by order of the General Headquarters of the Allied Forces (GHQ) after Japan's defeat in World War II. It ended upon the end of the occupation of Japan in 1952.\n\nEdict No. 109 was issued in the name of the Japanese emperor prohibiting POWs, cooperators of World War II, those belonging to Dai Nippon Butoku Kai, Taisei Yokusankai and Gokokudoshikai from engaging in public service in 1946. In 1947, the range of prohibited positions widened, including private enterprises. More than 20,000 people were purged. A purge qualification committee was established to address objections between March 1947 and March 1948 and restarting in February 1949. The law was abolished by law No.94 in 1952 after the Allied occupation came to an end. In 1948, 148 people including politician Wataru Narahashi and Shigeru Hori were denied their purge and four people including Takeru Inukai obtained release from the purge.\n\nLeading political figures world disappeared and the next generation gained power. Especially in education and mass communications, leftists and communist sympathizers gained power, which was against the desire of occupation authorities. Nevertheless, the purge of government officials, including judges and those belonging to Tokubetsu Kōtō Keisatsu, was less strict; the latter went to other posts. Eighty percent of the members of the House of Representatives were purged, but members of their families ran for election, preserving their seats. The policies of the occupation authorities had changed by the intended February 1 General strike, which did not take place by the order of the GHQ and the 1950 Korean War, and those who were purged changed to leftists under the name of the red purge or red scare.\n\nIn 1950, individuals began to be released from the purge, including some from the Army and Navy. In May 1951, General Matthew Ridgway stated that the purge would be generally softened and authority would be transferred to the Japanese government. In 1951, more than 250,000 people were freed. At the end, Nobusuke Kishi and another 5,500 people remained purged.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3921801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3921801", "title": "R v Malmo-Levine; R v Caine", "text": "R v Malmo-Levine; R v Caine\n\nR v Malmo-Levine; R v Caine [2003] 3 S.C.R. 571, 2003 SCC 74, is a leading constitutional decision of the Supreme Court of Canada. The Court rejected a constitutional challenge of the criminalization of marijuana.\n\nThe decision involves two cases. The first was where David Malmo-Levine, a \"marijuana/freedom activist\", ran an organization in East Vancouver called the \"Harm Reduction Club\", which attempts to reduce the harm associated with marijuana use by educating users and the public about the drug and provide the drug at cost. In December 1996 the police raided the Harm Reduction Club and seized 316 grams of marijuana charging Malmo-Levine with possession for the purpose of trafficking.\n\nThe second case involved the 1993 arrest of Victor Caine for possession of marijuana. Caine was in his van by the ocean when two RCMP officers approached him. He was stopped and a 0.5 gram were found in his possession.\n\nBoth Caine and Malmo-Levine challenged the constitutionality of the criminalization of marijuana under the Narcotics Control Act.\n\nMalmo-Levine's argument focused on whether there should be a requirement of harm for criminal law. He argued that the constitutional power to enact criminal law under section 91(27) of the Constitution Act, 1867 is limited to conduct that causes harm. He further argued that the \"harm principle\" should be a principle of fundamental justice under section 7 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.\n\nGonthier and Binnie JJ., writing the majority, rejected all the arguments for the requirements of harm under section 91(27) of the Constitution Act, 1867 and section 7 of the Charter. They held that Parliament need not establish harm but only a reasonable apprehension of harm.\n\nGonthier and Binnie looked towards \"R v Hauser\", which held that narcotics were a new matter not considered in 1867 and so falls under the peace, order and good government power. They suggest that this case was likely wrong as narcotics is clearly a matter of criminal law.\n\nThe criminal law power, they state, includes the protection of vulnerable groups. Thus the government is able to control activities for the protection of drug users and society.\n\n"}
{"id": "1296112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1296112", "title": "Rada", "text": "Rada\n\nRada is the term for \"parliament\" or \"assembly\" or some other \"council\" in several Slavic languages. Normally it is translated as \"council\". Sometimes it corresponds to \"parliament\", or in Soviet Union contexts, to \"soviet\". It also carries a meaning of advice, as in the English word \"counsel\".\n\nOld High German \"rāt\" (from Proto-Germanic \"*rēdaz\") passed (possibly through Polish) into the Czech, Slovak, Ukrainian, Belarusian and Russian languages.\n\n\"Råd\" in Norwegian, Danish, and Swedish, \"Rat\" in German, \"raati\" in Finnish and \"raad\" in Estonia/Dutch mean \"council\" or \"assembly\", but also \"advice\", as it does in East Slavic (except Russian) and West Slavic, but not South Slavic, languages.\n\nIn Swedish the verb \"råda\" (to counsel) is based on the substantive \"råd\". This is similar to Danish \"råd\" (noun) and \"råde\" (verb).\n\nIn Belarus\n\nIn Czech Republic\n\nIn Poland\n\nIn Slovakia\n\nIn Ukraine\n\nHistorically, the \"Verkhovna Rada\" was also the Supreme Soviet of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic (Українська \"Радянська\" Соціалістична Республіка [УРСР], \"Ukrayins'ka \"Radyans'ka\" Sotsialistychna Respublika [URSR]\"), which was itself part of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (Союз \"Радянських\" Соціалістичних Республік, [СРСР]), the word \"rada\" replacing the Russian word \"soviet\" in both cases. See official names of the Soviet Union.\n"}
{"id": "55464554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55464554", "title": "Reception and criticism of WhatsApp security and privacy features", "text": "Reception and criticism of WhatsApp security and privacy features\n\nThis article provides a detailed historic account of the reception and criticism of security and privacy features in the WhatsApp messaging service.\n\nOn May 20, 2011, an unconfirmed security researcher from the Netherlands under the pseudonym \"WhatsappHack\" published, to the Dutch websites Tweakers.net and GeenStijl, a method by which WhatsApp accounts could be hijacked. The researcher noticed a flaw in the authentication process, which allowed the researcher to hijack an account by trying to login with another phone number and intercepting the verification SMS text message that, under specific conditions, remained in the outbox of the Symbian phone after the WhatsApp client would attempt to send it to itself. On Android, the verification message could be obtained through reading the \"radio\" with a tool named \"logcat\". The researcher would then copy and send the intercepted verification message to the real number of the phone, using an SMS gateway to spoof the \"sender\" phone number to the number the researcher tried to maliciously login with. This method worked, and WhatsApp issued a patch within one day after publication of the articles, to both the Android and Symbian clients. WhatsApp did have a security mechanism, by design, which would disable the account on the phone of the original owner of the phone number, when they had a WhatsApp account.\n\nIn May 2011, another security hole was reported which left communication through WhatsApp susceptible to packet analysis. WhatsApp communications were not encrypted, and data was sent and received in plaintext, meaning messages could easily be read if packet traces were available.\n\nIn May 2012 security researchers noticed that new updates of WhatsApp no longer sent messages as plaintext, but the cryptographic method implemented was subsequently described as \"broken\". In August 2012 the WhatsApp support staff said that messages were encrypted in the \"latest version\" of the WhatsApp software for iOS and Android (but not BlackBerry, Windows Phone, and Symbian), without specifying the cryptographic method.\n\nOn January 6, 2012, an unknown hacker published a website that made it possible to change the status of an arbitrary WhatsApp user, as long as the phone number was known. To make it work, it only required a restart of the app. According to the hacker, it was only one of many security problems in WhatsApp. On January 9, WhatsApp reported that it had resolved the problem, although the only measure actually taken was to block the website's IP address. As a reaction, a Windows tool was made available for download providing the same functionality. This problem has since been resolved in the form of an IP address check on currently logged-in sessions.\n\nGerman Tech site \"The H\" demonstrated how to use WhatsAPI to hijack any WhatsApp account on September 14, 2012. Shortly after, a legal threat to WhatsAPI's developers was alleged, characterized by \"The H\" as \"an apparent reaction\" to security reports, and WhatsAPI's source code was taken down for some days. The WhatsAPI team has since returned to active development.\n\nOn March 31, 2013 the Saudi Arabian Communications and Information Technology Commission (CITC) issued a statement regarding possible measures against WhatsApp, among other applications, unless the service providers took serious steps to comply with monitoring and privacy regulations.\n\nIn February 2014, the public authority for data privacy of the German state of Schleswig-Holstein advised against using WhatsApp, as the service lacked privacy protection such as end-to-end client side encryption technology. WhatsApp started implementing end-to-end encryption in late 2014 and finished in April 2016.\n\nA major privacy and security problem has been the subject of a joint Canadian-Dutch government investigation. The primary concern was that WhatsApp required users to upload their mobile phone's entire address book to WhatsApp servers so that WhatsApp could discover who, among the users' contacts, was available via WhatsApp. While this was a fast and convenient way to quickly find and connect the user with contacts who were also using WhatsApp, it meant that their address book was then mirrored on the WhatsApp servers, including contact information for contacts who were not using WhatsApp. This information, which consisted solely of phone numbers without any additional information such as the name of the contact, was stored in hashed, though not salted, form. Late 2015, the Dutch government released a press-statement claiming that WhatsApp had changed its hashing method, making it much harder to reverse, and thus now fully complies with all rules and regulations.\n\nA user does not need to send a friend request to send messages to another user, due to the contact discovery mentioned above.\n\nIn November 2014, WhatsApp introduced a feature named Read Receipts which alerts senders when their messages are read by recipients. Within a week, WhatsApp introduced an update allowing users to disable this feature so that message recipients do not send acknowledgements.\nOn December 1, 2014, Indrajeet Bhuyan and Saurav Kar, both 17 years old, demonstrated the WhatsApp Message Handler Vulnerability, which allows anyone to remotely crash WhatsApp just by sending a specially crafted message of 2kb in size. To escape the problem, the user who receives the specially crafted message has to delete his/her whole conversation and start a fresh chat, because opening the message keeps on crashing WhatsApp unless the chat is deleted completely. In early 2015, after WhatsApp launched a web client that can be used from the browser, Bhuyan also found that it had two security issues that compromised user privacy: the WhatsApp Photo Privacy Bug and the WhatsApp Web Photo Sync Bug.\n\nIn February 2015, a Dutch university student named Maikel Zweerink published an app that set out to prove that anyone could track a WhatsApp user's status and also keep an eye of their changing profile pictures, privacy settings or status messages regardless of their privacy settings.\n\nOn March 2, 2016, WhatsApp introduced its document-sharing feature, initially allowing users to share PDF files with their contacts. However, WhatsApp's default state of automatically downloading attachments raised some concerns in the press about risk and security once support for document sharing expanded beyond PDF files.\n\nIn August 2016, WhatsApp announced that it will start sharing account information with Facebook, consisting of the phone number of the account owner and aggregated analytical data. The address books and metadata of users are not shared. According to WhatsApp, this account information is shared to \"track basic metrics about how often people use our services and better fight spam on WhatsApp. And by connecting your phone number with Facebook's systems, Facebook can offer better friend suggestions and show you more relevant ads if you have an account with them.\" This means that Facebook can target advertisements on the Facebook Platform better by making links between users based on the phone numbers, and make \"friend suggestions\" to its users based on WhatsApp's data. User data will not be shared with advertisers, and is only used internally on the Facebook services. WhatsApp emphasizes the content of user messages is still kept private thanks to its end-to-end encryption, which means WhatsApp cannot read the content of chats. However, users are given the choice to opt out of sharing this data with Facebook for advertisement purposes. In October 2016, Article 29 Working Party stated that it has serious concerns regarding the manner in which the information relating to the updated Terms of Service and Privacy Policy was provided to users and consequently about the validity of the users’ consent.\n\nFrom April 5, 2016, end-to-end encryption for all users' communications, including file transfers and voice calls, is supported for users of the latest client, encryption being enabled by default. It uses Curve25519 for key exchange, HKDF for generation of session keys (AES-256 in CBC mode for encryption and HMAC-SHA256 for integrity verification) and SHA512 for generating the two 30 digit fingerprints of both users' identity keys so they can verify each other as needed. Even the company would be unable to decrypt users' communications. Amnesty International and security professionals praised the move; the US Federal Bureau of Investigation criticised it as threatening the work of law enforcement. Telegram, another messaging service, is reported by the BBC to be used by \"Islamic State\" extremists.\n\nWhatsApp is not the only messaging service that provides end-to-end encryption; among others, Threema, Wickr, Signal, Silent Phone, and Line also provide such encryption by default. iMessage and Viber provide it under special circumstances. Telegram provides end-to-end encryption as an opt-in feature, but does not support end-to-end encrypted group messaging.\n\n, WhatsApp has a score of 6 out of 7 points on the Electronic Frontier Foundation's \"Secure Messaging Scorecard\". It has received points for having communications encrypted in transit, having communications encrypted with keys the provider doesn't have access to, allowing users to verify contacts' identities, having past messages secure if the encryption keys are stolen, having completed a recent independent security audit, and having the security designs properly documented. It is missing a point because the code is not open to independent review.\n\nOn January 13, 2017, \"The Guardian\" reported that security researcher Tobias Boelter had found that WhatsApp's policy of forcing re-encryption of initially undelivered messages, without informing the recipient, constituted a serious loophole whereby WhatsApp could disclose, or be compelled to disclose, the content of these messages. WhatsApp and Open Whisper Systems officials disagreed with this assessment. A follow-up article by Boelter himself explained in greater detail what he considered to be the specific vulnerability. This article has since been removed by The Guardian due to the inaccuracies in Boelter’s representation of the facts. After complaints from 73 renowned security researchers, The Guardian was forced to substantially revise and correct their own articles as well. Therefore, in June 2017, \"The Guardian\" readers’ editor Paul Chadwick wrote that \"The Guardian was wrong to report in January that the popular messaging service WhatsApp had a security flaw so serious that it was a huge threat to freedom of speech.\" \n\nChadwick also noted that since the Guardian article, WhatsApp has been \"better secured by the introduction of optional two-factor verification in February.\" However, it is important to note that this feature was already introduced in public beta versions of WhatsApp as early as November 2016, which was months before The Guardian wrote about the alleged issue. \n\nIn October 2017, the German software company Open-Xchange criticised WhatApps and Slack for using proprietary software and stated plans to create an open source alternative.\n"}
{"id": "11509638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11509638", "title": "Rental value", "text": "Rental value\n\nRental value is the fair market value of property while rented out in a lease. More generally, it may be the consideration paid under the lease for the right to occupy, or the royalties or return received by a lessor (landlord) under a license to real property. In the science and art of appraisal, it is the amount that would be paid for rental of similar real property in the same condition and in the same area.\n\nDetermining Rental Rates\n\nDeciding on a rental rate doesn’t just mean figuring out the highest possible price you could list your rental for. Increasing the rental rate to the top of the market, can also increase the number of calls or issues a tenant may complain about during the term of the lease.\n\ne.g. If you’re paying top dollar for something, you expect an exceptional experience. If you pay a below market rent, you are likely to not complain about smaller issues since you’re paying less.\n\nPricing your rental should be a strategy in order to maximize your net income. The longer you own the property, the easier this becomes.\n\nIn economic terms, the rental value is the added value an individual contributes when goods are being exchanged or traded for profit. This additional quality is often fixed and is alone under the trader’s ownership. The characteristic can be tangible such as a signature method of use or intangible such as exclusive knowledge pertaining to a product; also known as intellectual property. The value arises from when the market or model is in equilibrium and it is advantages for an individual to take part in trading activities rather than not participate, considering profit or utility can be achieved. Two separate but ideally identical exchange scenarios may occur but may have completely different values calculated. This is explained by two classic examples, a consumer achieves a surplus or profit when buying goods if they are able to buy all quantities at a single price. The producer lacks knowledge concerning the relationship between an individual’s willingness-to-pay and quantity. This means the producer cannot price discriminate according to the consumer’s demand marginality. In this example the buyer has achieved a beneficial rent. If the seller were to discover the buyers willingness-to-pay at different quantities, the seller could maximize their profit by selling quantities at different prices. In most situations this is achieved by slightly lowering the price as more products are bought. In this example the seller achieves a beneficial rent. Economic theories suggest that a free market would correct itself of rents. Considering the producer surplus example, if the gradual discounting of prices also attracted more consumers, the producer would have to re-evaluate their strategy. Often, consumers have different willingness’-to-pay for goods. Following this assumption, profit would not be maximized because the price strategy would not be applicable to all buyers. However, if analyzed in reality, through means such as market research, the producer can find a willingness-to-pay that represents most buyers. Consumer rent from the individuals who still pay for goods lower than willing and the producer rent from ability to price discriminate would then counter one another, resulting in market equilibrium.\n\nIn a contract lawsuit, the lessor could collect the \"rental value\" of the premises from the saloon lessee (tenant) who had violated a lease. Usable value is \"not\" the same as rental value, but is equivalent, and has been used in a condemnation proceeding.\n\nRental value can also be used in a divorce, separation, or annulment action for equitable distribution, in those states \"lacking\" Community property laws. \n\n\"Fair Market Rent\" in the US context is the amount of money that a given property would command, if it were open for leasing at the moment.\n\nFair market rent is an important concept both in the Housing and Urban Development's ability to determine how much of the rent is covered by the government for those tenants who are part of Section 8, as well as by other governmental institutions. \n\nFair market rent is sometimes used by appraisal districts to determine tax rates. \n\nU.S. HUD's Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&R) publishes Fair Market Rents and Income Limits (respectively, the basis for how much program administrators will subsidize housing units, and the maximum incomes that tenants may not exceed in order to qualify for subsidized housing) on an annual basis. These figures vary throughout the country based on a number of determining factors, such as local economic conditions and housing demand. \n\nThe most reliable and up-to-date source of this information is the HUD USER Clearinghouse website www.HUDUSER.org; specifically, the Fair Market Rents and Income Limits dataset pages.\n\nHUD has produced a mobile app that provides access to the relevant data from Android-based smart phones and iPhones, as well as some Blackberry models.\n"}
{"id": "4162454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4162454", "title": "Schéma directeur d'aménagement et de gestion des eaux", "text": "Schéma directeur d'aménagement et de gestion des eaux\n\nIn France, the schéma directeur d'aménagement et de gestion des eaux (SDAGE) aims to put into effect the principles of the law of 3 January 1992 on the level of the major hydrographic basins. In translation, its name is outline for the organization of the development and management of water resources.\n\nWater is a part of the nation's common heritage. Its protection, exploitation and setting into a usable state while respecting natural balances, are of general interest.\n\nThe use of water belongs to all, within the framework of laws and regulations as well as of rights already established.\n\nThe law of 3 January 1991 is like a United Kingdom Act of Parliament. The main subjects addressed by the SDAGE are written into the law:\n\nThe SDAGE scheme was drawn up together by the national, regional and département governments and is managed by the \"agence de l'eau\" (water agency).\n\nThe SDAGE serves as a general framework for the development and management of the water of each hydrographic unit, system or aquifer). These are the schémas d'aménagement et de gestion des eaux (SAGE), that is water resource development and management outlines.\n\nThe aquifer and the hydro-electric and recreational uses of water in the Ain valley compose a clear example of a site where a coordinated approach could be productive. However, the \"schéma\" is flexible enough to include specific needs as for example, that of Artois-Picardie which is concerned specifically with the former mining basin of the Nord and Pas-de-Calais départements and the consequences of past and current exploitation of the région's coal.\n\n"}
{"id": "4970796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4970796", "title": "Singapore National Front", "text": "Singapore National Front\n\nThe Singapore National Front (abbrev: SNF; Chinese: 新加坡国民阵线), is a Singapore Malay-based political party formed by exit faction members from Pertubuhan Kebangsaan Melayu Singapura (Singapore Malay National Organisation) members whom was a group of Malay professionals in 15 August 1991.\n\nIt did not take part in any elections to date and hence little notability was known to the general public in Singapore, even when it has announced to join Singapore Democratic Alliance in 2011 where its rival was. \n\nDespite its appearance on a day after the Writ of Election for 2011 general election was issued whereby prospective candidates from various independents or various parties had come to collect the relevant nomination papers as a first step to be nominated as a candidate on the nomination day, SNF still failed to send any candidates in 2011 elections, despite being under the SDA banner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2255828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2255828", "title": "Social fascism", "text": "Social fascism\n\nSocial fascism was a theory supported by the Communist International (Comintern) during the early 1930s, which held that social democracy was a variant of fascism because—in addition to a shared corporatist economic model—it stood in the way of a dictatorship of the proletariat. At the time, the leaders of the Comintern, such as Joseph Stalin and Rajani Palme Dutt, argued that capitalist society had entered the \"Third Period\" in which a working class revolution was imminent, but could be prevented by social democrats and other \"fascist\" forces. The term \"social fascist\" was used pejoratively to describe social democratic parties, anti-Comintern and progressive socialist parties and dissenters within Comintern affiliates throughout the interwar period.\n\nAt the Sixth Congress of the Comintern in 1928, the end of capitalist stability and the beginning of the \"Third Period\" was proclaimed. The end of capitalism, accompanied with a working class revolution, was expected and social democracy was identified as the main enemy of the communists. This Comintern's theory had roots in Grigory Zinoviev's argument that international social democracy is a wing of fascism. This view was accepted by Joseph Stalin who described fascism and social democracy as \"twin brothers\", arguing that fascism depends on the active support of the social democracy and that the social democracy depends on the active support of fascism. After it was declared at the Sixth Congress, the theory of social fascism became accepted by the world communist movement.\n\nThe new direction was closely linked to the internal politics of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU). After a faction fight inside that party following the death of Vladimir Lenin in 1924, the victorious group around Stalin shifted decisively to the left, advocating the end of the mixed economy New Economic Policy and declaring an intensification of the class struggle inside the Soviet Union. An atmosphere of revolutionary fervour was created that saw any enemy of the ruling group around Stalin denounced as \"wreckers\" and \"traitors\" and this attitude was translated on to the international stage where both social democrats and communist dissidents were denounced as fascists.\n\nAt the same time, under leadership of German chancellor Hermann Müller the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) agreed with anti-communist parties that \"red equals brown\". This led to mutual hostility between social democrats and communists, which were additionally intensified in 1929 when Berlin's police (under control of the SPD government) shot down communist workers demonstrating on May Day (Berlin's Bloody May). This and the repressive legislation against the communists that followed served as further evidence to communists that social democrats were indeed \"social fascists\". In 1931, in Prussia—the largest state of Germany—the Communist Party of Germany (KPD), which referred to the Nazis as \"working people's comrades\", united with them in unsuccessful attempt to bring down the state government of SPD by means of a plebiscite. German communists continued to deny any essential difference between Nazism and social democracy even after elections in 1933. Under the leadership of Ernst Thälmann, the KPD coined the slogan \"After Hitler, our turn!\" – strongly believing that united front against Nazis was not needed and that the workers would change their opinion and recognize that Nazism—unlike communism—did not offer a true way out of Germany's difficulties (see also Wilhelm Hoegner and Walter Kolbenhoff.\n\nAfter Adolf Hitler's Nazis came to power in Germany, the KPD was outlawed and thousands of its members were arrested, including Thälmann. Following these events, the Comintern did a complete turn on the question of alliance with social democrats and the theory of \"social fascism\" was abandoned. At the Seventh Congress of the Comintern in 1935, Georgi Dimitrov outlined the new policy of the \"popular front\" in his address \"For the Unity of the Working Class Against Fascism\". The \"popular front\" did not stop the conclusion of the Nazi-Soviet Pact.\n\nLeon Trotsky argued against the accusations of \"social fascism\" and in the \"Bulletin of the Opposition\" of March 1932 declared: \"Should fascism come to power, it will ride over your skulls and spines like a terrific tank... And only a fighting unity with the Social Democratic workers can bring victory\". However, Trotsky said in the same essay that any cooperation with the social democrats was only tactical and temporary and that in the final analysis the social democracy would have to be defeated and subverted by the revolutionary faction: The front must now be directed against fascism. And this common front of direct struggle against fascism, embracing the entire proletariat, must be utilized in the struggle against the Social Democracy, directed as a flank attack, but no less effective for all that... No common platform with the Social Democracy, or with the leaders of the German trade unions, no common publications, banners, placards! March separately, but strike together! Agree only how to strike, whom to strike, and when to strike! Such an agreement can be concluded even with the devil himself... No retraction of our criticism of the Social Democracy. No forgetting of all that has been. The whole historical reckoning, including the reckoning for Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg, will be presented at the proper time, just as the Russian Bolsheviks finally presented a general reckoning to the Mensheviks and Social Revolutionaries for the baiting, calumny, imprisonment and murder of workers, soldiers, and peasants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42823979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42823979", "title": "Social ownership", "text": "Social ownership\n\nSocial ownership is any of various forms of ownership for the means of production in socialist economic systems, encompassing public ownership, employee ownership, cooperative ownership, citizen ownership of equity, common ownership and collective ownership. Historically social ownership implied that capital and factor markets would cease to exist under the assumption that market exchanges within the production process would be made redundant if capital goods were owned by a single entity or network of entities representing society, but the articulation of models of market socialism where factor markets are utilized for allocating capital goods between socially owned enterprises broadened the definition to include autonomous entities within a market economy. Social ownership of the means of production is the common defining characteristic of all the various forms of socialism.\n\nThe two major forms of social ownership are society-wide public ownership and cooperative ownership. The distinction between these two forms lies in the distribution of the surplus product. With society-wide public ownership, the surplus is distributed to all members of the public through a social dividend, whereas with co-operative ownership the economic surplus of an enterprise is controlled by all the worker-members of that specific enterprise.\n\nThe goal of social ownership is to eliminate the distinction between the class of private owners who are the recipients of passive property income and workers who are the recipients of labor income (wages, salaries and commissions), so that the surplus product (or economic profits in the case of market socialism) belong either to society as a whole or to the members of a given enterprise. Social ownership would enable productivity gains from labor automation to progressively reduce the average length of the working day instead of creating job insecurity and unemployment. Reduction of necessary work time is central to the Marxist concept of human freedom and overcoming alienation, a concept widely shared by Marxist and non-Marxist socialists alike.\n\nThe term \"socialization\" refers to the process of restructuring the economic framework, organizational structure and institutions of an economy on a socialist basis. The comprehensive notion of socialization and the public ownership form of social ownership implies an end to the operation of the laws of capitalism, capital accumulation and the use of money and financial valuation in the production process, along with a restructuring of workplace-level organization.\n\nSocial ownership is variously advocated to end the Marxian concept of exploitation, to ensure that income distribution reflects individual contributions to the social product, to eliminate unemployment arising from technological change, to ensure a more egalitarian distribution of the economy's surplus, or to create the foundations for a non-market socialist economy.\n\nIn Karl Marx's analysis of capitalism, social ownership of the means of production emerges in response to the contradictions between socialized production and private appropriation of surplus value in capitalism. Marx argued that productivity gains arising from the substitution of variable capital (labor inputs) for constant capital (capital inputs) would cause labor displacement to outstrip the demand for labor. This process would lead to stagnant wages and rising unemployment for the working class alongside rising property income for the capitalist class, further leading to an over-accumulation of capital. Marx argued that this dynamic would reach a point where social ownership of the highly automated means of production would be necessitated to resolve this contradiction and resulting social strife. Thus the Marxist case for social ownership and socialism is not based on any moral critique of the distribution of property income (wealth) in capitalism, but rather the Marxist case for socialism is based on a systematic analysis of the development and limits of the dynamic of capital accumulation.\n\nFor Marx, social ownership would lay the foundations for the transcendence of the capitalist law of value and the accumulation of capital, thereby creating the foundation for socialist planning. The ultimate goal of social ownership of productive property for Marx was to expand the \"realm of freedom\" by shortening average work hours so that individuals would have progressively larger portion of their time to pursue their genuine and creative interests. Thus the end goal of social ownership is the transcendence of the Marxist concept of alienation.\n\nThe economist David McMullen identifies five major benefits of social ownership, where he defines it as society-wide ownership of productive property: first, workers would be more productive and have greater motivation since they would directly benefit from increased productivity, secondly this ownership stake would enable greater accountability on the part of individuals and organizations, thirdly social ownership would eliminate unemployment, fourth it would enable the better flow of information within the economy, and finally it would eliminate wasteful activities associated with \"wheeling and dealing\" and wasteful government activities intended to curb such behavior and deal with unemployment.\n\nFrom a non-Marxist, market socialist perspective, the clearest benefit of social ownership is an equalization of the distribution of property income, eliminating the vast disparities in wealth that arise from private ownership under capitalism. Property income (profit, interest and rent) is distinguished from labor income (wages and salaries) which in a socialist system would continue to be unequal based on one's marginal product of laborsocial ownership would only equalize passive property income.\n\nNotable non-Marxist and Marxist socialist theorists alike have argued that the most significant argument for social ownership of the means of production is to enable productivity gains to ease the work burden for all individuals in society, resulting in progressively shorter hours of work with increasing automation and thus a greater amount of free time for individuals to engage in creative pursuits and leisure.\n\nSocial ownership is contrasted with the concept of private ownership of the means of production, promoted as a solution to what its proponents see as being inherent issues to private ownership. Market socialists and non-market socialists therefore have slightly different conceptions of social ownership. The former believe that private ownership and private appropriation of property income is the fundamental issue with capitalism, and thus believe that the process of capital accumulation and profit-maximizing enterprise can be retained, with their profits being used to benefit society in the form of a social dividend. By contrast, non-market socialists argue that the major problems with capitalism arise from its contradictory economic laws that make it unsustainable and historically limited. Therefore, social ownership is seen as a component of the establishment of non-market coordination and alternative \"socialist laws of motion\" that overcome the systemic issues of capital accumulation.\n\nThe socialist critique of private ownership is heavily influenced by the Marxian analysis of capitalist property forms as part of its broader critique of alienation and exploitation in capitalism. Although there is considerable disagreement among socialists about the validity of certain aspects of Marxian analysis, the majority of socialists are sympathetic to Marx's views on exploitation and alienation. Socialists critique the private appropriation of property income on the grounds that because such income does not correspond to a return on any productive activity and is generated by the working class, it represents exploitation. The property-owning (capitalist) class lives off passive property income produced by the working population by virtue of their claim to ownership in the form of stock, bonds or private equity. This exploitative arrangement is perpetuated due to the structure of capitalist society. From this perspective, capitalism is regarded as class system akin to historical class systems like slavery and feudalism.\n\nPrivate ownership has also been criticized on ethical grounds by the economist James Yunker. Yunker argues that because passive property income requires no mental or physical exertion on the part of the recipient and because its appropriation by a small group of private owners is the source of the vast inequalities in contemporary capitalism, this establishes the ethical case for social ownership and socialist transformation.\n\nSocialization is conceived as a process that transforms the economic processes and, by extension, the social relations within an economy. As such, it is distinct from the process of \"nationalization\" which does not necessarily imply a transformation of the organizational structure of organizations or the transformation of the economic framework under which economic organizations operate.\n\nMarxists envision socialization as a restructuring of social relations to overcome alienation, replacing hierarchical social relations within the workplace with an association of members. \n\nDuring the 1920s, socialists in Austria and Germany were engaged in a comprehensive dialogue about the nature of socialization and how a program of socialization could be effectively carried out. Austrian scientific thinkers whose ideas were based on Ernst Mach's empiricist notion of energy and technological optimism, including Josef Popper-Lynkeus and Carl Ballod, proposed plans for rational allocation of exhaustible energy and materials through statistical empirical methods. This conception of non-capitalist calculation involved the use of energy and time units, the latter being viewed as the standard cardinal unity of measurement for socialist calculation. These thinkers belonged to a technical school of thought called \"scientific utopianism\", which is an approach to social engineering that explores possible forms of social organization.\n\nThe most notable thinker belonging to this school of thought was the Viennese philosopher and economist Otto Neurath, whose conception of socialism as a natural, non-monetary economic system became widespread within the socialist movement following the end of World War I. Neurath's position was held in contrast to other socialists in this period, including the revisionist perspective stemming from Eduard Bernstein, the orthodox social democratic perspective of Karl Kautsky, the Austro-Marxism models of labor-time calculation from Otto Bauer and the emerging school of neoclassical market socialism. Neurath's position opposed all models of market socialism because it rejected the use of money, but was also held in contrast with the more orthodox Marxist conception of socialism held by Karl Kautsky, where socialism only entails the elimination of money as capital along with super-session of the process of capital accumulation.\n\nOtto Neurath conceptualized a comprehensive view of socialization during the socialization debates. \"Total socialization\" involved not only a form of ownership but also the establishment of economic planning based on calculation in kind, and was contrasted with \"partial socialization\". \"Partial socialization\" involved the use of in-kind calculation and planning within a single organization, which externally operated within the framework of a monetary market economy. Neurath's conception of socialism was the initial point of criticism of Ludwig Von Mises in the socialist calculation debate.\n\nIn the subsequent socialist calculation debates, a dichotomy between socialists emerged between those who argued that socialization entailed the end of monetary valuation and capital markets, and those who argued that monetary prices could be used within a socialized economy. A further distinction arose between market socialists who argued that social ownership can be achieved within the context of a market economy, where worker-owned or publicly owned enterprises maximized profit and those who argued that socially owned enterprises operate according to other criteria, like marginal cost pricing.\n\nSocial ownership and socialization is categorically distinct from the process of nationalization. In most cases, \"socialization\" is understood to be a deeper process of transforming the social relations of production within economic organizations as opposed to simply changing titles of ownership. In this sense, \"socialization\" often involves both a change in ownership and a change in organizational management, including self-management or some form of workplace democracy in place of a strict hierarchical form of control. More fundamentally, social ownership implies that the surplus product (or economic profits) generated by publicly owned enterprise accrues to all of societystate ownership does not necessarily imply this.\n\nFundamentally, there are two major forms of \"social ownership\". The first is society-wide public ownership by an entity or network of entities representing society. The second major form of social ownership is employee-owned cooperative enterprise, with the members of each individual enterprise being co-owners of their organization.\n\nAdditionally, there are two major forms of management or \"social control\" for socially owned organizations, both of which can exist alongside the two major modes of social ownership. The first variant of control is public management, where enterprises are run by management held accountable to an agency representing the public either at the level of national, regional or local government. The second form of social control is worker self-management, where managers are elected by the member-workers of each individual enterprise or enterprises are run according to self-directed work processes.\n\nThe exact forms of social ownership vary depending on whether or not they are conceptualized as part of a market economy or as part of a non-market planned economy.\n\nPublic ownership can exist both within the framework of a market economy and within the framework of a non-market planned economy. In market socialist proposals, public ownership takes the form of state-owned enterprises that acquire capital goods in capital markets and operate to maximize profits, which are then distributed among the entire population in the form of a social dividend. In non-market models of socialism, public ownership takes the form of a single entity or a network of public entities coordinated by economic planning. A contemporary approach to socialism involves linking together production and distribution units by modern computers to achieve rapid feedback in the allocation of capital inputs to achieve efficient economic planning.\n\nThe economist Alec Nove defines social ownership as a form of autonomous public ownership, drawing a distinction between state-owned and directed enterprises. Nove advocates for the existence of both forms of enterprise in his model of feasible socialism.\n\nPublic ownership was advocated by neoclassical socialist economists during the interwar socialist calculation debate, most notable Oskar Lange, Fred M. Taylor, Abba P. Lerner and Maurice Dobb.\n\nNeoclassical market socialist economists in the latter half of the 20th century who advocated public ownership highlighted the distinction between \"control\" and \"ownership\". John Roemer and Pranab Bardhan argued that public ownership, meaning a relatively egalitarian distribution of enterprise profits, does not require state controlPublicly owned enterprises can be controlled by agents who don't represent the state.\n\nDavid McMullen's concept of decentralized non-market socialism advocates social ownership of the means of production, believing it to be far more efficient than private ownership. In his proposal, property titles would be replaced by \"usership\" rights and the exchange of capital goods would no longer be possible. Market exchange in capital goods would be replaced by internal transfers of resources, but an internal and decentralized price system would be fundamental to this systems' operation.\n\nHowever, by itself public ownership is not socialist as it can exist under a wide variety of different political and economic systems. State ownership by itself does not imply social ownership where income rights belong to society as a whole. As such, state ownership is only one possible expression of public ownership, which itself is one variation of the broader concept of social ownership.\n\nThe social ownership of capital and corporate stock have been proposed in the context of a market socialist system, where social ownership is achieved either by having a public body or employee-owned pension funds own corporate stock.\n\nThe American economist John Roemer developed a model of market socialism that features a form of public ownership where individuals receive a non-transferable coupon entitling them to a share of the profits generated by autonomous non-governmental publicly owned enterprises. In this model, \"social ownership\" refers to citizen ownership of equity in a market economy.\n\nJames Yunker argues that public ownership of the means of production can be achieved in the same way private ownership is achieved in modern capitalism, using the shareholder system that effectively separates management from ownership. Yunker posits that social ownership can be achieved by having a public body, designated the Bureau of Public Ownership (BPO), own the shares of publicly listed firms without affecting market-based allocation of capital inputs. Yunker termed this model \"Pragmatic market socialism\" and argued that it would be at least as efficient as modern-day capitalism while providing superior social outcomes as public ownership would enable profits to be distributed among the entire population rather than going largely to a class of inheriting rentiers.\n\nAn alternative form of social ownership of equity is ownership of corporate stock through wage earner funds and pension funds. The underlying concept was first expounded upon in 1976 by the management theorist Peter Drucker, who argued that pension funds could reconcile employees' need for financial security with capital's need to be mobile and diversified, referring to this development as \"pension fund socialism\". In Sweden during the late 1970s, the Meidner program was advanced by the Swedish Social Democratic Party as a way to socialize enterprises through employee wage earners' funds, which would be used to purchase corporate stock. Rudolf Meidner's original plan was to require Swedish companies over a certain size to issue shares equal to 20 percent of profits, which would be owned by wage-earner funds controlled by employees through their trade unions. This plan was rejected and a watered-down proposal was adopted in 1984, which left corporate decision making just as it was and limited the scope of employee ownership to less than 3.5% of listed company shares in 1990.\n\nCooperative ownership is the organization of economic units into enterprises owned by their workforce (workers cooperative) or by customers who use the products of the enterprise (this latter concept is called a consumer cooperative). Cooperatives are often organized around some form of self-management, either in the form of elected managers held accountable to the workforce, or in the form of direct management of work processes by the workers themselves. Cooperatives are often proposed by proponents of market socialism, most notably by the economists Branko Horvat, Jaroslav Vanek and Richard Wolff.\n\nCooperative ownership comes in various forms, ranging from direct workers' ownership, employee stock ownership plans through pension funds, to the weakest version involving profit sharing. Profit-sharing and varying degrees of self-management or \"Holacracy\" is practiced in many of the high-technology companies of Silicon Valley.\n\nThe earliest model of cooperative socialism is mutualism, proposed by the French anarchist philosopher Pierre-Joseph Proudhon. In this system, the state would be abolished and economic enterprises would be owned and operated as producer cooperatives, with worker-members compensated in labor vouchers.\n\nThe model of market socialism promoted in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was based on what was officially called \"social ownership\", involving an arrangement where workers of each firm each became members and joint-owners and managed their own affairs in a system of workers' self-management.\n\nContemporary proponents of cooperative ownership cite higher motivation and performance in existing cooperatives. Critics argue that cooperative ownership by itself does not resolve the structural issues of capitalism like economic crises and the business cycle, and that cooperatives have an incentive to limit employment in order to boost the income of existing members.\n\nIn the context of non-market proposals, social ownership can include holding the means of producing wealth in common (common ownership), with the concept of \"usership\" replacing the concept of ownership. Commons-based peer production involves the distribution of a critical mass of inputs and all outputs through information networks as free goods rather than commodities to be sold for profit by capitalist firms.\n\nThe economist Pat Devine defines social ownership as \"ownership by those who are affected bywho have an interest inthe use of the assets involved\", distinguishing it from other forms of ownership. Devine argues that this variant of social ownership will be more efficient than the other types of ownership because \"it enables the tacit knowledge of all those affected to be drawn upon in the process of negotiating what should be done to further the social interest in any particular context\".\n\nThe phrases \"social production\" and \"social peer-to-peer\" production have been used to classify the type of workplace relationships and ownership structures found in the open-source software movement and Commons-based peer production processes, which operate, value and allocate value without private property and market exchange.\n\nIn Soviet-type economies, the means of production and natural resources were almost entirely owned by the state and collective enterprises. State enterprises were integrated into a national planning system, where factor inputs were allocated to them by the Ministry for Technical Supply (Gossnab).\n\nAccording to \"The Great Soviet Encyclopedia\", \"socialist ownership\" is a form of social ownership that forms the basis for the socialist system, involving the collective appropriation of material wealth by working people. Social ownership arises out of the course of capitalist development, creating the objective conditions for further socialist transformation and for the emergence of a planned economy with the aim of raising the living standards for everyone in society.\n\nParticularly in the United States, the term \"socialization\" has been mistakenly used to refer to any state or government-operated industry or service (the proper term for such being either nationalization or municipalization). It has also been incorrectly used to mean any tax-funded programs, whether privately run or government run.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1863513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1863513", "title": "Specialist schools programme", "text": "Specialist schools programme\n\nThe specialist schools programme was a UK government initiative which encouraged secondary schools in England to specialise in certain areas of the curriculum to boost achievement. The Specialist Schools and Academies Trust was responsible for the delivery of the programme. At the end of the status there were nearly 3,000 specialist schools, which was fully 88% of the state-funded secondary schools in England.\nWhen the new Coalition government took power in May 2010 the scheme was ended and funding was absorbed into general school budgets.\n\nThe Education Reform Act 1988 introduced a new compulsory subject of Technology, but there were insufficient funds to equip all schools to teach the subject.\nA first attempt at developing centres of excellence, the City Technology College programme between 1988 and 1993, had produced only 15 schools.\nIn 1994, the Conservative government, at the urging of Sir Cyril Taylor, designated 35 grant-maintained and voluntary aided schools as Technology Colleges.\nThe schools were required to arrange private sponsorship of £100,000, and would then receive a matching government capital grant and increased recurrent funding.\nThe following year the programme was opened to all maintained schools, and specialism in Languages was added.\nSpecialisms in Arts and Sport were added in 1996.\n\nAs specialism implied diversity of schools, it was opposed by many supporters of comprehensive schools, including many in the Labour Party.\nNevertheless, in 1997 the new Labour government, also encouraged by Sir Cyril Taylor, adopted the embryonic programme, and the number of specialist schools continued to grow.\nThe School Standards and Framework Act 1998 made it possible for specialist schools to select up to 10% of their intake on aptitude in the existing specialisms in sport, the arts, modern languages and technology, though new selection for aptitude in technology was prohibited in 2008.\nHowever few have taken up this option.\n\nThe 2001 white paper \"Schools Achieving Success\" envisaged expansion of the programme to 50% of secondary schools by 2005, and introduced new specialisms in Business and Enterprise, Engineering, Mathematics and Computing and Science.\nThe emphasis was shifting from centres of excellence to a means of driving up standards in most schools.\nThe required amount of private sponsorship was halved, and could be made up of goods and services in lieu of cash.\nSoftware donations had been ineligible due to the difficulty in evaluating the true value of something that has no manufacturing cost and can simply be given away as a form of collateral, but this changed when Oracle and then Microsoft were allowed to sponsor the programme with \"in kind\" donations.\nIn 2002 the government introduced the Partnership Fund, funded at £3 million per annum, to make up the shortfall for schools that were unable to raise the required £50,000 of private sponsorship.\nSpecialisms in Humanities and Music were added in 2004.\nBy 2008 approximately 90% of maintained secondary schools had become specialist schools.\n\nExtension of the specialist programme to primary schools is being trialled at 34 schools in England, starting in 2007.\nThe specialisms involved in the pilot are Arts, Music, Languages, Science and Physical Education/Sport.\nA specialist schools programme has been trialled by the Department of Education of Northern Ireland from 2006, with 44 schools being awarded the status by September 2009.\n\nTo apply for specialist school status, a school must demonstrate reasonable standards of achievement, and produce a four-year development plan with quantified targets related to learning outcomes. The school must also raise £50,000 in private sector sponsorship.\nPrivate sector sponsorship includes charitable trusts, internal fund raising and donations from private companies. In some cases donations can be made in cash from entities in the private sector such as Arcadia and HSBC, but may also be donations \"in kind\" of goods or services. The total sponsorship to date is of the order of £100m.\n\nA school may specialise in any of the following fields, or combine specialisms in two of them (at the same level of funding):\n\nSpecialist schools must still meet the full requirements of the English national curriculum, so the specialism is seen as adding value to the existing statutory provision rather than being a radical departure from it. The important aspect in the eyes of the government is the focus that the specialism provides for providing leadership in the quest for whole school improvement.\n\nThe reward for achieving specialist status is a government grant of £100,000 to go with the £50,000 in sponsorship for a capital project related to the specialism and an extra £129 per pupil per year for four years to support the development plan. This is normally targeted on additional staffing and professional development, though up to 30% may be spent on equipment.\n\nSchools that make a good attempt at achieving their targets over the 4 year development plan period normally have their grants renewed at 3-year intervals with no further need to raise sponsorship. However since 2008, the government has sought to encourage long-term relationships with business partners by offering a matching grant to redesignating specialist schools that are able to raise a further £25,000 in private sponsorship.\n\nSome schools that demonstrated that they were achieving significantly higher results than other schools were invited to apply to be designated as High Performing Specialist Schools. This typically allowed the school to apply for a further specialism, which brought with it additional funding so that the school could develop that further specialism.\nBy 2009 some 900 schools (30% of specialist schools) had achieved this status.\n\nDavid Jesson of the University of York published a series of annual studies of the results of the specialist schools program, on behalf of the SSAT.\nThese studies reported that non-selective specialist schools achieved significantly higher results at GCSE results than non-specialist comprehensive schools, that they achieved higher 'added value' when prior achievement was taken into account, and that the gains had increased with the length of time the school had been specialist.\nJesson's statistical methodology was criticised, and others pointed out that early specialist schools were chosen for the programme because they were already successful.\nOther studies found that specialist schools performed slightly better at GCSE, particularly benefitting more able pupils and narrowing the gap between boys and girls.\nSubsequent studies attributed the increase to the additional funding, and reported that the effect was diminishing as a greater proportion of schools become specialist.\n\nSpecialist schools and academies were promoted, notably by Estelle Morris (Education Secretary 2001–2002), as part of an attempt to improve standards by 'increasing diversity' in secondary schools.\nLeft wing commentators had criticised this move away from the comprehensive ideal.\nThe two biggest UK teaching unions had opposed the programme because they said that it created a two-tier education system, made up of specialist schools with extra funding and non-specialist schools which could not have benefited from any extra money.\n\nThere was also evidence that specialist schools took fewer children from poorer families than non-specialist schools.\nOne possible cause was that it may have been easier for middle-class parents to raise the necessary sponsorship.\n\n"}
{"id": "13761926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13761926", "title": "Sustainable seafood", "text": "Sustainable seafood\n\nSustainable seafood is seafood that is either caught or farmed in ways that consider the long-term vitality of harvested species and the well-being of the oceans, as well as the livelihoods of fisheries-dependent communities. It was first promoted through the sustainable seafood movement which began in the 1990s. This operation highlights overfishing and environmentally destructive fishing methods. Through a number of initiatives, the movement has increased awareness and raised concerns over the way our seafood is obtained.\n\nMarine environments are currently under immense pressure. Their problems primarily arise through anthropogenic causes, such as overfishing and environmental destruction. However, research suggests that fisheries are able to recover or stabilize their populations when responsible management and regulations are in place. Unfortunately, most seafood is obtained through “irresponsible fishing practices that continue to modify some marine ecosystem.” This has resulted in record depleted stocks. For example, “85 percent of the world’s fisheries are fished at or beyond their maximum sustainable limit.” Considering the rising global population and the pressure that it has, and will continue to exert on the Earth's resources, a more sustainable method of fishing is necessary if humans wish to utilize its natural abundance.\n\nThe Sustainable Seafood Movement is an initiative born through the realization that the marine ecosystems of the world were being overexploited and destroyed. It began in the 1990s and was driven by social marketing through Ecolabel and awareness campaigns. Through social marketing, the collaboration between environmental non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and industry allowed for the consumer to make informed choices, potentially contributing to the conservation of marine biodiversity.\n\nEcolabeling programs evaluate the production process with environmental standards set by an independent third party. Should the process fulfill the specific requirements, the producer or marketer may purchase a license to use an ecolabel in its marketing. This label allows the consumer to know that the product was produced sustainably. Labeling is not only an effective regulatory tool in encouraging consumers to make environmentally friendly choices, but it also provides a financial benefit to producers. In 1996 the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) implemented the first certification program Since then, they have not only made a distinct effort to maintain the health of ecosystems, but they have also contributed to more financial success for producers. For instance, once the American Albacore Fishing Association had its tuna certified to the MSC standard, they were able to obtain premium prices for their product. For the small fishing community in Bonita, California, certification allowed them to sell direct, as opposed to depending on the instability on the dock. They were able to make a profit of $2,260 rather than $1,700 per tonne. More companies and organizations are choosing to use environmentally sustainable production, such as ecolabeling, to gain a greater market share and higher profits.\n\nAwareness campaigns focus on educating the public and encouraging them to purchase products that consider the vitality of marine species. They do so through boycotts of certain species and products as well as through seafood guides. Seafood guides highlight which species are acceptable to consume and which are not based on their environmental impact. Guides are typically constructed into three categories, some using the analogy of a traffic light's colours: red, yellow, and green. These rankings are based on how the fish responds to fishing pressure, abundance, gear impact, bycatch, and management. Red represents items to avoid, yellow is a good alternative, and green is the best choice. Several organizations, including the Monterey Bay Aquarium, have developed their own guides or wallet cards to be distributed to the public.\n\nIn September 2016, a partnership of Google and Oceana and Skytruth introduced Global Fishing Watch, a website designed to assist citizens of the globe in monitoring fishing activities.\n\nThe Seafood Guide below, made by SeaChoice, highlights which species are best to eat, and which should be avoided based on their management, abundance, and whether they have been caught or farmed in environmentally sustainable ways. It allows consumers to be informed of their choices and vote with their wallets.\n\nThere are a wide variety of fishing methods used. Each has its own environment impact that varies on intensity. The table below highlights a fishing method along with its environmental repercussions.\n\nThe National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is a national government agency that has authority over conservation, marine fisheries, and management. The NOAA has created FishWatch to help guide concerned consumers to sustainable seafood choices. The fisheries in the United States are overseen by the Ten National Standards of the Magnuson–Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act. Therefore, the National Standards are protecting the fish population and eliminating overfishing. Along with the Magnuson-Stevens Act, U.S. fisheries are also regulated under the Endangered Species Act and Marine Mammal Act.\n\nThe NOAA fisheries service has started using aquaculture to produce sustainable seafood. Aquaculture is fish or shellfish farming. The aquaculture fisheries hatch and raise the fish until market size. By using aquaculture the wild fish will be able to repopulate without the threat of overfishing. The aquaculture fish have a variety of uses including: food, nutritional, and pharmaceutical. Two types of aquaculture exist. Marine aquaculture farms the fish species that live in the ocean and fresh water aquaculture is the fish species that live in freshwater. NOAA is focusing on an alternative seafood source to help repopulate and save the ocean's ecosystems.\n\nThe Marine Stewardship Council is a global non-profit organization looking to conserve the oceans. Their mission is to use a combination of certified fisheries and ecolabeling to make people aware of how important it is to preserve our oceans. The MSC works with fisheries, scientists, seafood companies, conservation groups and the public to encourage environmentally friendly seafood choices. The two main ways the MSC regulates sustainable seafood is by setting standards for certified fisheries and ecolabeling.\n\nThe certified fisheries are judged on the three standards the MSC provides. The MSC, however, does not certify the fisheries. They are certified by a third party system to remove any bias. The standards were created to decrease overfishing and maintain healthy ecosystems.\nThe three standards are:\n\nOnce a fishery has been reviewed and certified, their certification lasts for 5 years. In that 5 years, the fishery will be inspected and held to the environmental standards of the MSC. After the 5 years have passed, the fishery will have to go through the approval process again.\n\nThe second way the MSC regulates seafood to the public is by using their ecolabel. The ecolabel on seafood products guarantees the seafood has come from a sustainable source and certified fishery. The ecolabel can be found around the world. The consumer can feel good about buying seafood with a MSC ecolabel.\n\nBefore a seafood product can carry the MSC eco-label, the fishery must acquire the MSC Fisheries certification. Additionally, all companies in the supply chain that take ownership of the product including distributors, wholesalers, manufacturers, pack houses, traders, retailers, catering organizations and restaurants must acquire the MSC Chain of Custody Certification.\n\nCritics condemn the Marine Stewardship Council for certifying specific fisheries that may be in trouble, harmful to the environment, or where there is a lack of information available. For example, the Antarctic toothfish fishery in the Ross Sea was awarded an MSC label, despite a lack of basic information on the stock itself. A \"Marine Policy\" study that analyzed the stocks of MSC fisheries found that 31% of the stocks were overfished, and 11% did not have suitable information available.\n\nRichard Page, a Greenpeace oceans campaigner stated \"I will go as far as to say consumers are being duped. They think they are buying fish that are sustainable and can eat them with a clean conscience.\" \n\nFriend of the Sea is a non-profit international organization that supports the conservation of oceans. It was founded by Dr. Paolo Bay who started the sustainable seafood movement in Europe. Friends of the Sea uses aquaculture and certified fisheries to maintain the seafood stock. The certified fisheries are audited by International Organization for Standardization. The criteria to become a certified fishery is:\nCurrently 30 fisheries around the world are certified under the Friends of the Sea.\n\nThe Friends of The Sea also participate in the certification of aquaculture. The establishment of aquaculture helps reduce the number of wild species caught. The ISO also audits the aquaculture farms before certification. The criteria of aquaculture is:\nIn 2004, aquaculture accounted for 32% of the total production of fish. Aquaculture is becoming more popular with an 8% rise per year in the last 30 years. Currently there are 75 aquaculture certified by Friends of the Sea.\n\nDue to growing public concern about overfishing, many seafood restaurants have begun to offer more sustainable seafood options, with some restaurants specializing in sustainable seafood, exemplified by Miya's, a restaurant headed by chef Bun Lai, a 2016 White House Champions of Change for Sustainable Seafood recipient. Miya's is on the vanguard of the sustainable seafood movement as the first sushi restaurant to specialize in sustainable seafood. Today, there are sustainable sushi restaurants throughout the U.S., Canada, and England, and many more sustainable seafood restaurants in general.Due to eco-labeling, seafood guides, traceability schemes, sourcing policies, and awareness initiatives there are more chefs and restaurants involved in the sustainable seafood movement than ever before.\n\nOrganizations such as Seafood Choices Alliance have helped educate chefs about the choices they make in order to encourage more chefs and restaurants to offer sustainable options. This is in line with the strict international standards set by 'Eco Friendly Chef' www.ecofriendlychef.com and 'Eco Friendly Approved' www.EcoFriendlyApproved.com in association with Oceans 5. www.oceans-5.com\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17910884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17910884", "title": "Swiss Border Guard", "text": "Swiss Border Guard\n\nSwiss Border Guard (, , ) are a federal law enforcement agency, which acts as both the border guard and customs service for Switzerland. It is a uniformed and armed section of the Federal Customs Administration, which is attached to the Federal Department of Finance. It is the largest civilian security agency on a federal level. Its members are subjected to military criminal law.\n\nThe Swiss Border Guard takes care of the prevention, intervention and repression concerning customs and migration related matters. It enforces border security and national compensating measures under the Schengen Agreement. The guard participates in international missions of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders (Frontex).\n\nThe Swiss Border Guard controls people and merchandise crossing the Swiss border, while combating smuggling and trans-border crime. It also participates in international missions. Furthermore, the Swiss Border Guard supplies agents (Ground- and Airmarshals) to the Federal Office of Police, the agents being tasked with preventing incidents on board aircraft and at airports. In its entirety, the Swiss Border Guard is tasked with enforcing over 150 national laws.\n\nIn essence, the Swiss Border Guard works within the same realm as the customs authorities of Switzerland, with both sides cooperating on a regular basis.\n\nThe Swiss Border Guard has three strategic areas of work:\n\nThese strategic areas fall within the original legal framework of the Swiss Border Guard. However, customs related duties are heavily prioritised and customs law is relied upon to fulfil all additional duties. Additionally, the cantons of Switzerland can and have delegated additional competences to the Swiss Border Guard.\nThe Swiss Border Guard has no own aircraft, therefore the Swiss Border Guard is supported by the Swiss Air Force with Helicopters (with and without FLIR) and the RUAG Ranger.\n\nCustoms duties fulfilled by the Border Guard include:\n\nSecurity duties include:\n\nMigration duties include:\n\nThe Border Guard do not have their own aircraft, but are supported with Helicopters and UAVs from the Swiss Air Force\n\nThe Border Guard is divided into the following three hierarchical levels:\n\nThe Border Guard Corps Command (\"Kommando Grenzwachtkorps\") (Kdo GWK) based in the Customs Directorate (\"Oberzolldirektion\") (OZD) in Bern forms the strategic level. It is divided into the sections staff services, operations, technology/logistics, teaching association, and special formation. It is managed by the Chief Border Guard (\"Chef Grenzwachtkorps\") (C GWK).\n\nThe border guard corps command performs strategic and operational tasks. These include the planning and management of national and international operations, national large scale training, foreign assignments, and training.\n\nAdditional elements of management support include:\n\nThe seven border guard regions form the operational level. They are provided with the corresponding Roman numerals and a place name and defined according to geotactic aspects. They are led by border guard commanders (Gzw Kdt).\n\nBorder guard regions carry out operational tasks that are not performed centrally. If required, this also includes the supraregional planning and management of major events and operations, large scale training and foreign assignments.\n\nThe 44 border guard posts (Gzw Po) and four operational centers (EZ GWK) of the border guard regions form the tactical level. They are led by post chiefs (Pch). The border guards ensure service operation and daily service execution.\n\nThe following organizational units serve as important elements of leadership support:\n(The Einsatzzentrale Grenzwachtkorps (EZ GWK) \n\nIn addition to the Border Guard Command at the Swiss Federal Customs Administration in Bern, there are seven regional commandos, called Border Guard Regions:\n\nThe original eight border guard regions were introduced on January 1, 2007, as a replacement for the previous four border guard circles. The Border Guard Region VII (Aargau / Zurich) with command at Zurich Airport was dissolved on April 1, 2011, and divided into border guard regions I (Canton Aargau) and II (Canton Zurich).\n\nThe rank insignia on the shoulder straps of the Border Guard correspond to the military ranks of the Swiss Army. The shoulder straps are additionally provided with the ray cross or Roman numerals (I-VIII). The beam cross indicates carriers assigned to the Border Guard Corps command. The Roman numerals correspond to the respective border guard region in which the guard works.\n\nBorder Guards are issued Heckler & Koch P30 V4 with RUAG ACTION 4 9MM ammunition. Additionally, Heckler & Koch MP5 are available either on some border crossings (kept in dedicated safes) or are loaded onto patrol cars at the beginning of a shift.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12601311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12601311", "title": "United Nations Special Envoy on Climate Change", "text": "United Nations Special Envoy on Climate Change\n\nThere are currently three United Nations Special Envoys on Climate Change, appointed by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on May 1, 2007. The envoys will be engaging in consultations with Governments and other organizations in order to assist the Secretary-General to progress the international negotiations towards a post-Kyoto climate change treaty.\n\nGro Harlem Brundtland is a former Prime Minister of Norway and former chair of the World Commission on Environment and Development. Han Seung Soo served as President of the United Nations General Assembly in 2001, and also as Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korea. Ricardo Lagos, former President of Chile is the third Special Envoy.\n\nThe appointment of Lagos was controversial among Chilean environmental groups who questioned his track record on the matter, claiming that he 'showed an utter lack of consideration for the environment, promoted policies against environmental sustainability and favored the interests of big economic groups, even defending crimes against nature internationally'.\n\n"}
{"id": "21703549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21703549", "title": "United Response", "text": "United Response\n\nUnited Response is a top 100 charity operating in England and Wales, providing a range of support and services for more than 2,000 people with learning disabilities, mental health needs or physical disabilities.\n\nTheir mission is to ensure that individuals with learning disabilities, mental health needs and physical disabilities have the opportunity to live their lives to the full.\n\nTheir vision is a society where everyone has equal access to the same rights and opportunities.\n\nUnited Response was founded in 1973 by Su Sayer, CBE. She opened the first service in Tillington, West Sussex. By 1979, it was the largest provider of support for people with learning disabilities in the region. In 1983, United Response expanded to the north of England, setting up its first service in Chesterfield. In 1990, the charity started working with people with mental health needs.\n\nSeven years later, it began implementing person-centred active support under the guidance of the late Professor Jim Mansell, CBE, who joined the Board of Trustees in 1995. In 1999, United Response launched the first of many social enterprises, a cleaning company under its trading arm, UR in Business. The company employed people with a learning disability. In 2002 the charity began working with the University of Kent’s Tizard Centre to study, monitor and evaluate the quality of its support.\n\nIn 2006, United Response ran a project entitled Mental Wealth to raise awareness of issues facing people with mental health needs as a backdrop to the then-Mental Health Bill. In 2008 the charity launched Making Money Easier – a suite of accessible resources to support people with learning disabilities access banks and manage their money.\n\nIn 2010, United Response began its Every Vote Counts campaign, which it repeated in 2015, encouraging more people with learning disabilities to vote. In 2013, United Response launched Easy News, the first accessible news magazine for people with learning disabilities.\n\nUnited Response supports over 2,000 people, works in more than 300 locations across England and Wales, and employs over 3,500 staff.\n\nThe services United Response provides depend on each person they work with. United Response provides 24-hour support for people with profound physical needs, or just a few hours for those who need less support to live their lives.\n\nThey job coach people into meaningful paid employment and can provide outreach support for those with a mental health need or help people who find it difficult to communicate by making information more accessible.\n\nOne of United Response’s primary support techniques is person-centred thinking: they work with each person to do the things they want to do, supporting them to communicate what it is they want.\n\nThey have also pioneered active support and positive behaviour support as ways of involving people with even the most complex needs and challenging behaviour in all areas of their lives.\n\nIn support of United Response's vision, they also campaign to improve the lives of people with disabilities in society. This may mean lobbying decision makers such as Members of Parliament to ensure that people's voices are heard or it might mean working directly with disabled people so that they can be more directly engaged in the democratic process.\n\nUnited Response also works with employers to ensure that more people with learning disabilities, mental health needs and physical disabilities get a fair opportunity to work.\n\nUnited Response’s most recent major campaign is Every Vote Counts, which aims to make politics and voting accessible to people with learning disabilities. Currently, at least half a million people with learning disabilities in the UK have the right to vote but don't use it, due to low awareness of their rights and the complexity of the political system.\n\nSince 2010, the charity has been working with people with learning disabilities and politicians to change this by publishing easy read guides to voting, urging all political parties to communicate more accessibly, and campaigning publicly for greater awareness of the fact that most people with learning disabilities are entitled and have the mental capacity to vote.\n\nUnited Response is committed to ensuring that people with learning disabilities are able to advocate for themselves whenever possible and use their own voices to promote change. When the campaign was re-launched ahead of the 2015 general election, the charity recruited political correspondent David Allkins, who has Asperger syndrome and communication difficulties, to create a series of exclusive video interviews and special reports aimed at making politics easier to understand for people with learning disabilities.\n\nFollowing the general election, United Response quantified the results of its Every Vote Counts campaign and found that 43% of people it supports with learning disabilities voted – a 10% increase on the numbers that voted in 2010. The survey also revealed the extent to which the campaign has reached out to new voters, with some 31% stating that they had voted for the first time, of which only 14% stated that this was due to age.\n\nIn 2013, to mark its 40th anniversary, United Response launched the creative campaign Postcards from the Edges. Through its dedicated Postcards from the Edges website, the charity invited people with, or affected by, disabilities to create postcards about what is important to them, and in the first year alone attracted more than 500 contributors. The aim of the project is to counter preconceptions people may have about disability and aid understanding, and provide those affected with a platform for expression.\n\nThe postcards have been exhibited throughout the UK, including the House of Commons, Bristol, London and Newcastle. Since its conception, the project has grown to feature several specific campaigns boards, including a general election board that ran alongside the Every Vote Counts campaign.\n\nUnited Response’s Campaigns Panel is an informal network made up of around 20 people it supports with disabilities around the country, plus some family members.\n\nThe panel volunteer their time to ensure the charity’s campaigning is focused on the issues that matter most to the people it supports.\n\nOver the past five years, United Response has published reports on issues important to the Campaigns Panel, such as what good care looks like, what the government should be doing to support disabled people and the legacy of the 2013 Paralympic Games.\n\nUnited Response produce a wealth of resources, many aimed specifically at people with learning disabilities.\n\nThe charity is experienced in producing ‘easy read’ documents, which use simple words supported by pictures to aid understanding. Producing these documents is part of its commitment to accessibility and to promoting the equality of people with learning disabilities.\n\nIts most well-known resource is Easy News, the first news magazine designed to be accessible for people with learning disabilities, who often find politics and the news difficult to follow due to the use of jargon and complex language. Easy News uses simplified text and pictures to provide people with learning disabilities with easy to understand, politically neutral summaries of key news stories and events.\n\nUnited Response also employs groups of people with learning disabilities and autism, known as UR Consultants, who are experts in easy read communication, to select and translate the stories within Easy News, and provide consultancy services to businesses throughout the UK.\n\nOther easy read documents by the charity include Making Money Easier, its guide to all things money and finance related, and its resources on politics and voting to accompany its Every Vote Counts campaign.\n\nUnited Response also share their best practice resources with other professionals in the social care sector. These span topics such as person-centred planning techniques, active support, positive behaviour support and community engagement.\n\nMost notable are its Transforming Care resources, which centre on the process of moving people with particular complex learning disabilities and autism from long-stay institutions to community settings.\n\nUnited Response fundraise for their local community-based services, run national appeals and raise money through various social enterprises staffed by people they support with disabilities.\n\nTheir yearly 4tea events encourage people to hold summer tea parties to fundraise for the charity, while at the end of the year its Vice President, Sky Sports presenter Steve Rider, hosts its annual Golf Day competition.\n\nIn 2008, United Response were shortlisted as best employer in the Third Sector Excellence Awards and highly commended for their Annual Report. They also won a highly prestigious National Training Award for the investment they make in their staff.\n\n2009 saw the charity shortlisted in the best use of the internet category in the Charity Times Awards, while it's Making Money Easier project (aimed at making the financial world more accessible to people with learning disabilities) was shortlisted in the RADAR (Royal Association of Disability and Rehabilitation) Awards.\n\nUnited Response’s Easy News (the first easy read news magazine for people with learning disabilities) received a Charity Award 2014 for Education and Training. Later that same year, its creative Postcards from the Edges project won Best Use of the Web at the Charity Times Awards 2014, where it was also Highly Commended in the Charity of the Year category.\n\nMartyn Lewis, CBE is president of United Response and was appointed a CBE in 1997 for his services to young people and the hospice movement.\n\nThe charity’s founder, Su Sayer, CBE, stepped down after 40 years as CEO in March 2014, but remains personally involved as a Vice President of the organisation. She was appointed a CBE in 2013 for her services to people with disabilities in the UK.\n\nTV presenter and former sports commentator Steve Rider is also a Vice President of United Response.\n\n\n"}
