{"id": "226490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226490", "title": "1605 in literature", "text": "1605 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1605.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50039570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50039570", "title": "Aayiram Thalai Vaangi Apoorva Chinthamani", "text": "Aayiram Thalai Vaangi Apoorva Chinthamani\n\nAayiram Thalai Vaangi Apoorva Chinthamani (\"ஆயிரம் தலை வாங்கி அபூர்வ சிந்தாமணி\" ) is a 1947 Indian Tamil language adventure-thriller film directed and produced by T. R. Sundaram. The screenplay was written by T. R. Sundaram and the dialogue by Bharathidasan. Music was composed by G. Ramanathan. The film stars M. R. Swaminathan, P. S. Govindan, V. N. Janaki and Kali N. Rathnam in the lead roles, with S. Varalakshmi, M. G. Chakrapani and C. T. Rajakantham in supporting roles. The film was a big success among the masses. Thirteen years later, the film was remade in Telugu under the title \"Sahasra Sirchedha Apporva Chinthamani\" (1960) and that version was dubbed and released in Kannada.\n\nThe film was based on a popular folk tale about a sinner Saint's garb, who had the princess Chinthamani under his control and how he uses her as a pawn to achieve his goals. Those who were interested in marrying the princess were asked four intriguing questions by her and those who could not answer were beheaded as a punishment. When 999 of princes were killed like this, the film reveals how a prince goes about finding the answers.\n\nA Saint (M. R. Swaminathan) wants to become all powerful (Ashtamasithi) and prays to obtain such powers. He was told that if he could achieve the sacrifice of 1000 men, he shall achieve such a supreme power. As he cannot achieve this feat on his own, he works out a plan. Princess Apoorva Chinthamani (V. N. Janaki) is the daughter of King Neethi Kethu (M. G. Chakrapani). Due to her intelligence knowledge and interest in various arts, she is referred to as \"Apoorva Chinthamani\". The happy King encourages her learn more. The magician comes to the Aditayapuri Kingdom in the garb of a Saint and becomes Chinthamani's teacher.\n\nGradually, he brings her under his control and manipulates her to achieve his goals. When she attains marriageable age, the magician advises that she should get an equally knowledgeable man and hence asks her to organise a contest whereby three peculiar questions will be asked to the aspiring grooms, those who fail to answer will beheaded. Since only the magician knows the answers, he is sure that he can behead 1000 prospective grooms who fail to answer and thus achieve his target of 1000 sacrifices.\n\nThe justification for the killings is to prevent leakage of the questions to other contestants. Chinthamani agrees and also convinces her father for the contest. The first to be sacrificed happens to be her cousin Purantharan (E. R. Sahadevan), who is keen to marry her. In this manner, she kills 999 people, which includes six elder brothers of Prince Meyyazhagan (P. S. Govindan). He decides to take revenge on Chinthamani when he comes to know about the killings, and comes to her kingdom with his friend and assistant Kali (Kali N. Rathnam). They decide to find the questions and their answers before venturing to meet Chinthamani. In this process, the prince falls in love with Chinthamani's friend Princess Sengamalam (S. Varalakshmi).\n\nThrough her, he learns the questions. He goes to various countries named as Madhivadhanapuram, Sambangi Puram and Nathiseela Puram, finds the answers and brings the people involved with him to Chinthamani's palace. He answers the questions and wins the contest. Along with that, he also exposes the game plan of the magician, who gets killed by one of the kings affected by him. The prince advises Chinthamani to marry her cousin who was keen to marry her and marries her friend, Sengamalam.\n\n\nMusic and lyrics were composed by G. Ramanathan. The film had 11 songs.\n\nThis was the first film which presented several sub-plots and inner sub-plots in a flashback and stories were presented logically making the entire film interesting and a big hit among the masses. The film was very popular with the masses for its interesting script. The film had several sub-plots and inner sub-plots which were interwoven logically. These sub-plots were presented in flashback mode and become a landmark in the history of Tamil Cinema as it was the first time such a technique was used effectively on the screen. Another highlight, was the comedy scenes of Kali N. Rathnam and C. T. Rajakantham, which were presented well.\n\nKali N. Rathnam, who acts as a dumb person in a scene sang the most popular song of M. K. Thyagaraja Bhagavathar's Haridas(1944) \"Manmadha leelai Vendrar Undo\", through miming and music and created a sensation among the audience. The screenplay and dialogue were written by the Popular Tamil poet Pavendar Bharathidasan, but he did not wish to be credited in the titles as his convictions were against the concept of the film with illogical or unbelievable folk tales.\n\nThe film was later remade in Telugu in 1960 under the title \"Sahasra Sirachedha Apoorva Chinthamani\" by the same producer Modern Theatres and was directed by S. S. Lal — S. D. Lal. The film dialogues was written by Athreya. C. A. S. Mani and Madhavan Nair handled camera and L. Balu edited the movie. The movie released on 1 April 1960. Music by K. V. Mahadevan and Lyrics by Athreya are assets to the film. The film starred Kantha Rao, Devika, Girija, Gumnadi and Ramana Reddy, paired with Chayadevi and M. L. Narayanan playing lead, with Haranath, Rajanala, Rajasri, Allu Ramalingaiah, Jayanthi, Kaikala Satyanarayanan and B. S. Saroja playing supporting roles. The Tamil version ran to nearly four hours with 20,050 ft. length. S. D. Lal trimmed it down to 17,000 ft.length. He had deftly linked the three sub-plots to the main story and presented the third sub-plot by showing the actual incidents as inter-cuts. This technique was appreciated by both audience and the critics. The film was a big success in Telugu.\n\nKongara Jaggaiah was the original choice to play the hero and a few days work was also done on him. Despite polite requests not to smoke on the set, Jaggaiah continued with his habit. T. R. Sundaram settled his account and called Kantha Rao who was chosen to play one of the princes for a fresh make-up test and took him for the lead role.\n"}
{"id": "1053706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1053706", "title": "Arthur Danto", "text": "Arthur Danto\n\nArthur Coleman Danto (January 1, 1924 – October 25, 2013) was an American art critic and philosopher. He is best known for having been an influential, long-time art critic for \"The Nation\" and for his work in philosophical aesthetics and philosophy of history, though he contributed significantly to a number of fields, including the philosophy of action. His interests included thought, feeling, philosophy of art, theories of representation, philosophical psychology, Hegel's aesthetics, and the philosophers Friedrich Nietzsche and Arthur Schopenhauer.\n\nDanto was born in Ann Arbor, Michigan, January 1, 1924, and grew up in Detroit. He was raised in a Reform Jewish home. After spending two years in the Army, Danto studied art and history at Wayne University (now Wayne State University) and then pursued graduate study in philosophy at Columbia University. From 1949 to 1950, Danto studied in Paris on a Fulbright scholarship under Jean Wahl, and in 1951 returned to teach at Columbia. In 1992 he was named Johnsonian Professor Emeritus of Philosophy. He was twice awarded fellowships from the Guggenheim Foundation and was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nArthur Danto argues that \"a problem is not a philosophical problem unless it is possible to imagine that its solution will consist in showing how appearance has been taken for reality.\" While science deals with empirical problems, philosophy according to Danto examines indiscernible differences that lie outside of experience.\n\nDanto \"believes that persons are essentially systems of representation.\"\n\nDanto laid the groundwork for an institutional definition of art that sought to answer the questions raised by the emerging phenomenon of twentieth-century art. The definition of the term “art” is a subject of constant contention and many books and journal articles have been published arguing over the answer to the question \"What is Art?\" Definitions can be categorized into conventional and non-conventional definitions. Non-conventional definitions take a concept like the aesthetic as an intrinsic characteristic in order to account for the phenomena of art. Conventional definitions reject this connection to aesthetic, formal, or expressive properties as essential to defining art but rather, in either an institutional or historical sense, say that “art” is basically a sociological category. In terms of classificatory disputes about art, Danto takes a conventional approach. His \"institutional definition of art\" considers whatever art schools, museums, and artists get away with, regardless of formal definitions. Danto has written on this subject in several of his recent works and a detailed treatment is to be found in \"Transfiguration of the Commonplace\".\n\nThe essay \"The Artworld\" in which Danto coined the term “artworld”, by which he meant cultural context or “an atmosphere of art theory,” first appeared in the \"Journal of Philosophy\" (1964) and has since been widely reprinted. It has had considerable influence on aesthetic philosophy and, according to professor of philosophy Stephen David Ross, \"especially upon George Dickie's institutional theory of art. Dickie defines an art work as an artifact 'which has had conferred upon it the status of candidate for appreciation by some person or persons acting in behalf of a certain social institution (the artworld)' (p. 43.)\"\n\nAccording to the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", \"Danto's definition has been glossed as follows: something is a work of art if and only if (i) it has a subject (ii) about which it projects some attitude or point of view (has a style) (iii) by means of rhetorical ellipsis (usually metaphorical) which ellipsis engages audience participation in filling in what is missing, and (iv) where the work in question and the interpretations thereof require an art historical context. (Danto, Carroll) Clause (iv) is what makes the definition institutionalist. The view has been criticized for entailing that art criticism written in a highly rhetorical style is art, lacking but requiring an independent account of what makes a context art historical, and for not applying to music.\"\n\nThe basic meaning of the term \"art\" has changed several times over the centuries and continued to evolve during the 20th century as well. Danto describes the history of Art in his own contemporary version of Hegel's dialectical history of art. \"Danto is not claiming that no-one is making art anymore; nor is he claiming that no good art is being made any more. But he thinks that a certain history of western art has come to an end, in about the way that Hegel suggested it would.\" The \"end of art\" refers to the beginning of our modern era of art in which art no longer adheres to the constraints of imitation theory but serves a new purpose. Art began with an \"era of imitation, followed by an era of ideology, followed by our post-historical era in which, with qualification, anything goes... In our narrative, at first only mimesis [imitation] was art, then several things were art but each tried to extinguish its competitors, and then, finally, it became apparent that there were no stylistic or philosophical constraints. There is no special way works of art have to be. And that is the present and, I should say, the final moment in the master narrative. It is the end of the story.\"\n\nArthur Danto was an art critic for \"The Nation\" from 1984 to 2009, and also published numerous articles in other journals. In addition, he was an editor of \"The Journal of Philosophy\" and a contributing editor of the \"Naked Punch Review\" and \"Artforum\". In art criticism, he published several collected essays, including \"Encounters and Reflections: Art in the Historical Present\" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1990), which won the National Book Critics Circle Prize for Criticism in 1990; \"Beyond the Brillo Box: The Visual Arts in Post-Historical Perspective\" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1992); \"Playing With the Edge: The Photographic Achievement of Robert Mapplethorpe\" (University of California, 1995); \"The Madonna of the Future: Essays in a Pluralistic Art World\" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 2000); and \"Unnatural Wonders: Essays from the Gap Between Art and Life\" (Columbia University Press, 2007).\n\nIn 1996, he received the Frank Jewett Mather Award for art criticism from the College Art Association.\n\nHe was one of the signers of the Humanist Manifesto.\n\nArthur Danto died on October 25, 2013, aged 89 in Manhattan, New York City.\n\nDanto is the author of numerous books on philosophy and art, and summarizing the works of Continental philosophers in Anglo-American terms.\n\nArthur Danto's published works include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7074615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7074615", "title": "Australia ICOMOS", "text": "Australia ICOMOS\n\nAustralia ICOMOS is the peak cultural heritage conservation body in Australia. It is a branch of the United Nations-sponsored International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS), a non-government professional organisation promoting expertise in the conservation of cultural heritage. Its secretariat is based at the Cultural Heritage Centre for Asia and the Pacific at Deakin University.\n\nAustralia ICOMOS was formed in 1976 and is one of over 100 current ICOMOS national committees. ICOMOS was formed in 1965 to advise UNESCO in the assessment of sites proposed for the World Heritage List. Membership of Australia ICOMOS comprises over 650 members, managed by an Executive Committee of 15 people who are elected from the membership. Several Australia ICOMOS members are also represented on various ICOMOS International Scientific Committees, and expert committees and boards in Australia. It plays an important role in co-ordinating advocacy activities to raise the profile of Australia's cultural heritage.\n\nThe first meeting which led to the formation of Australia ICOMOS was in Melbourne on 20 October 1976, and the first ICOMOS conference was in Beechworth in 1978, where they devised a committee to work up a local version of the Venice Charter. The actual ICOMOS meeting where the committee's draft was provisionally endorsed was in the town of Burra in 1979. Australia ICOMOS played the pivotal role in developing and Burra Charter, regarded as the best-practice standard for cultural heritage management in Australia, which has influenced subsequent heritage legislation and conservation guidelines and practices in Australia.\n\nAustralia ICOMOS has also been responsible for producing the Australia State of the Environment Report (SoE), to advise the Minister for Environment on \"...the current condition of the Australian environment, the pressures on it and the drivers of those pressures.\"\n\nAustralia ICOMOS also organises an annual national conference on themes relevant to conservation and heritage in Australia and South East Asia, often on a specific heritage and conservation theme for example on the Australian Capital city's 100th anniversary in 2012.\n\nRecent collaboration between the Chinese government, the Getty Conservation Institute and Australia ICOMOS has seen the export of Australian conservation expertise in developing China Principles, \"...the Middle Kingdom's statement of conservation philosophy and method that is based on Australia's highly regarded Burra Charter\". Australia ICOMOS and the Burra Charter have also been held up as a world standard in Malta.\n\nAustralia ICOMOS publishes \"Historic Environment\" (ISSN 0726-6715), a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal covering cultural heritage and heritage conservation, first published by the Council for the Historic Environment, from 1980 to 1991, then by Australia ICOMOS and the Council for the Historic Environment in 1992 and by Australia ICOMOS alone from 1993. Editions are often on a specific heritage and conservation theme, for example 'Canberra's 100th anniversary' in 2012. and 'Extreme Heritage' dealing with \"... managing heritage in the face of climatic extremes, natural disasters and military conflicts in tropical, desert, polar and off-world landscapes.\"\n\nThe journal is the pre-eminent publication on heritage conservation in Australia, is allied to the international organisation ICOMOS, it is cited extensively in conservation literature, records the major heritage conferences in Australia, and has been in publication for over 30 years. The journal aims to bring together \"… dynamic, critical interdisciplinary research in the field of cultural heritage and heritage conservation.\" The journal has an editorial committee of five with lead editor Dr Tim Winter in 2013. It was ranked ‘A’ by the Excellence in Research for Australia classification scheme.\n\nAccessed on-line via State Library of New South Wales, and indexed through various index services including RMIT's Australian Heritage Bibliography, and the Australian Public Affairs Information Service (APAIS). It is held in over 80 libraries worldwide including all of the Australian state libraries and major Australian and New Zealand university libraries. and was ranked ‘A’ by the Australian Research Council Excellence in Research for Australia classification scheme. Australia ICOMOS also publishes the \"Australia ICOMOS newsletter\" (ISSN 0155-3534) on a regular basis.\n\nAustralia ICOMOS provides a mentoring program for cultural heritage students as well as architectural students who have completed subjects in architectural conservation and the Australia ICOMOS Victorian Scholarships. Australia ICOMOS projects extend to providing expertise and fund-raising for restoration projects in the wider Asia and Pacific region, including the \"Streetwise Asia\" School Restoration Project in the Philippines. Australia ICOMOS, and in particular Dr Richard Mackay, have been involved in conservation management advice for the World Heritage Listing of Ankor Wat in Cambodia for many years.\n\n"}
{"id": "7317135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7317135", "title": "Baronci Altarpiece", "text": "Baronci Altarpiece\n\nThe Baronci Altarpiece was a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. His first recorded commission, it was made for Andrea Baronci's chapel in the church of Sant'Agostino in Città di Castello, near Urbino. The altarpiece was seriously damaged during an earthquake in 1789, and since 1849 fragments of the original painting have been part of different collections.\n\nOn December 10, 1500, Raphael and Evangelista da Pian di Meleto, an older painter from the workshop of Raphael's father Giovanni Santi, received the commission to paint jointly a large altarpiece dedicated to Saint Nicholas of Tolentino, for the Baronci chapel in the Sant'Agostino Church in Città di Castello. In the documents Raphael, not his collaborator, is referred to as \"magister\" (\"master\"). The work on the paintings was completed on September 13, 1501.\n\nIn the center of the painting Nicholas of Tolentino stood in an archway, with the devil at his feet. Next to him were three angels. Above him God the Father was placed with a crown in his hand, and surrounded by the heads of angels. On his left the Blessed Virgin Mary and Saint Augustine were painted.\n\nDuring a heavy earthquake in 1789 the painting was damaged so severely that it was decided to saw it into pieces and display only the undamaged parts. In the same year, the fragments were acquired by Pope Pius VI for the collections of the Vatican, where they remained until 1849. It is unclear what happened to them after that. Only many years later scholars were able to trace back six different pieces, four fragments of the main painting and two predellas, which had become part of different collections.\n\nAn impression of the complete work is given by an 18th-century copy in the Pinacoteca Comunale, Città di Castello. Preliminary sketches by Raphael can be found in the Palais des Beaux-Arts de Lille, Lille and the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford. On the basis of these drawings it is assumed that the design of the altar was entirely Raphael's work, whereas in the execution he was joined by Evangelista da Pian di Meleto. While Raphael probably painted the altarpiece itself, the predellas are attributed to Pian di Meleto.\n\nFragments of the main altarpiece:\nPredellas:\n\n\"Based on the article from the German Wikipedia, which in turn gives as its sources\":\n\n"}
{"id": "11265001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11265001", "title": "Behnam House", "text": "Behnam House\n\nBehnam House is a historical building in Tabriz, Iran.\n\nThe edifice was built during the later part of the Zand dynasty (1750–1794) and the early part of the Qajar dynasty (1781–1925), as a residential house. During the reign of Nasereddin Shah Qajar (1848–1896) this building was substantially renovated and embellished with ornamental paintings. The house consists of a main building, referred to as the \"Winter Building\", and a smaller structure, referred to as the \"Summer Building\". The \"Winter Building\" is a two-storey symmetrical construction standing on a basement. Like many traditional houses in Iran, this house has an inner (اندرونی, \"andaruni\") and an outer (بيرونی, \"biruni\") courtyard, the former being the larger of the two. In the course of a 2009 renovation project, some hitherto unknown miniature frescoes were discovered in this house which were restored by specialists. The Behnām House is part of the School of Architecture of Tabriz Art University.\n\nThe Behnām House is located in the city center of Tabriz, \"Maqsudiyeh\" Street, behind Tabriz Municipality.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "44732498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44732498", "title": "Black Arts Council", "text": "Black Arts Council\n\nThe Black Arts Council (BAC) was an organization founded in 1968 to advocate for African-American artists and support their community. Founded by Cecil Fergerson and Claude Booker (black art preparators who worked at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, or LACMA), the organization comprised African-American artists, staff members, and other city residents who aimed to promote African-American art in Los Angeles. When the Black Arts Council was founded in 1968, every LACMA board member was white.\n\nThe organization grew to over 1,000 members in two years. It not only pressured LACMA to organize exhibitions for African-American artists, but also did extensive work supporting artists outside the museum. The BAC organized student field trips to art exhibits, gave lectures at schools, and curated art exhibitions at various community locations and events.\n\nThe BAC's advocacy produced results in the form of two LACMA exhibitions: \"Three Graphic Artists: Charles White, David Hammons, and Timothy Washington\" in 1971, and \"Panorama\" in 1972, featuring Noah Purifoy, John Outterbridge, and Betye Saar. These exhibits paved the path for LACMA's 1976 exhibition \"Two Centuries of Black American Art\", which traveled to the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts, and the Brooklyn Museum. \n\nThe BAC ceased activities in 1974 following Booker's death.\n"}
{"id": "1183423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1183423", "title": "Bugs Bunny Nips the Nips", "text": "Bugs Bunny Nips the Nips\n\nBugs Bunny Nips the Nips is a 1944 \"Merrie Melodies\" cartoon directed by Friz Freleng.\n\nSomewhere in the Pacific, Bugs is floating in a box, singing to himself, when 'the island that inevitably turns up in this kind of picture' turns up. Bugs swims towards it, and admires the peace and quiet, when bombs start going off (\"The Storm\" from the \"William Tell Overture\" is also heard in the background). Bugs ducks into a haystack, and soon comes face to face with a Japanese soldier; a short, buck-toothed, bare-footed Japanese man who says his 'Ls' as 'Rs' and who might be rapidly stating the names of Japanese cities whenever he moves. The soldier chases Bugs to a rabbit hole, where the soldier dumps a bomb inside. However, Bugs manages to blow the soldier up with the bomb. When the soldier tries to swing a sword at Bugs, Bugs appears as a Japanese general (presumably Hideki Tojo), but is soon recognized by his trademark carrot eating, prompting the soldier (who says he saw Bugs in the \"Warner Bros. Leon Schlesinger \"Merrie Melodies\" cartoon pictures\", referring to the fact that Bugs was originally exclusive to that series) to ask him \"What's up, Honorable Doc?\"\n\nBugs then jumps into a plane and the soldier also jumps into a plane. However, Bugs ties the soldier's plane to a tree, causing the plane to be yanked out from under him. The soldier parachutes down, but is met by Bugs in mid-air, who hands \"Moto\" (cf. Mr. Moto) some 'scrap iron' (an anvil), causing the soldier to fall. Painting a Japanese flag on a tree to denote one soldier down, Bugs runs into a sumo wrestler, whom he confidently faces off against (cockily marking a second bigger flag on the tree). After getting temporarily beaten by the sumo wrestler (and, to be fair, wipes the second mark off the tree before collapsing), Bugs dresses as a geisha girl and knocks the wrestler out, who repaints a second flag on the tree before passing out.\n\nSeeing a bunch of Japanese landing craft making their way to the island (exclaiming \"Japs! Hundreds of 'em!\"), Bugs thinks of a plan to get rid of all of them. He comes out in a 'Good Rumor' (a parody of Good Humor) truck, which plays Mozart (\"Der Vogelfänger bin ich ja\" from \"The Magic Flute\"). Bugs hands each of the Japanese an ice cream bar with a grenade inside it, calling them racist slurs such as \"monkey-face\" and \"slant-eyes\" whilst doing so. All the Japanese are killed off from the explosions, save for one who was killed after redeeming a 'free' ice cream bar from Bugs. Having now painted dozens of Japanese flags on the trees denoting all the downed enemy, Bugs comments again about the 'peace and quiet – and if there's one thing I CAN'T stand, it's peace and quiet!'.\n\nBugs spots an American battleship in the distance and raises a white flag, yelling for them to come get him, but they keep going. Bugs is insulted. \"Do they think I want to spend the rest of my life on this island?\" With this remark, a female rabbit (dressed in a more Hawaiian outfit) appears saying, \"It's a possibility!\" Bugs then pulls down the distress flag, lets out a wolf cry and goes running after her.\n\nThe films depicting the Japanese enemy during World War II tended to both identify a formidable wartime adversary and to depict said adversary as inferior to its American counterparts. In cartoons, this translated to a tendency to depict the Japanese as either superman or buffoon. This film closer represents the latter tendency. The caricature portrayal of this film serves as a host to well-worn stereotypes.\n\nThe film opens with Bugs singing from within a crate. He is somewhere in the Pacific and is waiting for the inevitable island to turn up. He then sees an island and swims towards its beach. Already in the introduction, Bugs identifies his Pacific island setting as a \"garden of Eden and a \"Shangri-La\". This in reference to the exotic havens depicted in South Sea island films and to the epic film \"Lost Horizon\" (1937). Only then is Bugs alerted to the mortal danger that awaits him on the island. The seductive first impression serves to set up a hazardous trap.\n\nBugs escapes rapid gunfire by running for cover into a haystack. The initial encounter of Bugs with a Japanese soldier presents an optical illusion, that the two share a body. Bugs' head peeks above the haystack, while the legs of the soldier appear below it. Then the owner of the feet confronts Bugs. The soldier has buck teeth, a thin mustache, dark eyeglasses, slanted eyebrows and curly, wavy hair.\n\nThe soldier pulls out a sword and starts swiping at Bugs. He speaks in Oriental-sounding gibberish, consisting of short syllables spoken in a staccato voice. In response, Bugs assumes the form of a Japanese general and stands stiffly at attention. Bugs' face is briefly transformed into a Japanese caricature, only to be contrasted with the face of an actual, if impish, Japanese soldier. Bugs disguised as a general imitates photographs of Hideki Tojo. The soldier bows in supplication to the authority figure. Bugs accidentally gives away his identity by casually chewing on a carrot.\n\nThe soldier resumes use of his sword and talks gibberish again. Bugs takes off in a Japanese plane, followed by the soldier in his own plane. Both planes are presumably based on the Mitsubishi A6M Zero. Bugs ties the rival plane to a tree. The soldier parachutes out and Bugs hands him an anvil. Mocking: \"Here's some scrap iron for Japan, Moto.\" There is a spoken reference to Mr. Moto to provide a well-acquainted name to the wartime enemy.\n\nBugs then bumps into a sumo wrestler. The man is huge with a large stomach, a mustache, a goatee, buck teeth with a large gap between the front teeth, and a Mohawk hairstyle. In response, Bugs transforms into a geisha. He speaks in Japanese-sounding gibberish and coaxes the wrestler into a near kiss. The kiss turns into a fatal blow with a mallet. Bugs triumphantly shouts \"timber\" as the man falls. The masquerade scene involving the wrestler and the geisha makes use of two relatively harmless civilian-type characters to cast the enemy in a humorous light. In concept, it suggests that an Oriental guise can be put on and discarded at will.\n\nBugs then sees several Japanese ships floating towards the island. He is next seen disguised as Ice cream car vendor in the mold of the Good Humor man. He entices many Japanese soldiers to come get their ice cream. There are many Japanese soldiers besieging Bugs' ice cream truck. Suggesting that their threat relies on their numbers. They are an easily fooled mob, not a group of individuals. They resemble a swarm of bees and they are rendered less as human figures and more like a scourge in need of extermination.\n\nBugs insults his customers by calling them \"monkey face\" and \"slant eyes\". The scene with the ice cream track partially obscures the faces and bodies of the enemy soldiers, but Bugs verbalizes a physical description. The phrases \"bowlegs\", \"monkey face\", \"slant eyes\" both serve as racial epithets and audibly support the visualized stereotypes of the film. They are all elements of the Japanese wartime caricature.\n\nThey get served with chocolate-covered ice cream bars embedded with grenades. The soldiers run off as soon as they get served. Then numerous explosions are heard. One battered soldier returns to present his specially-marked stick, earning him a free ice cream bar. He is the last one. Bugs' mission is accomplished. He then signals an American ship to come get him.\n\nBugs hates being confined to a world of \"peace and quiet\". He celebrates the approach of an American ship and his potential rescue, until he meets a sarong-clad female bunny. The female bunny ignites his passion. He howls and thumps his foot, his eyes bulging from their sockets. He leaps into an amorous pursuit and the film ends.\n\nThe short placed an emphasis on physical peculiarities to imply racial inferiority. The preeminent danger is positioned to be treachery and not military might. The Japanese are distinctively othered as physically deformed. The Japanese are characterized as single-minded, subservient to their superiors and gullible. The gag with the ice cream-seeking soldiers makes use of the American perception of the Japanese as both gullible and greedy. Bugs' stereotypical portrayal of Japanese womanhood renders him a meek and seductive creature, speaking in a falsetto voice.\n\nThe short has similarities to both \"Wackiki Wabbit\" (1943) and \"Herr Meets Hare\" (1945). The soundtrack includes \"Trade Winds\" and \"Someone's Rocking My Dreamboat\". There are two musical quotations from \"Die Walküre\" (1870) by Richard Wagner. The Japanese soldiers are repeatedly presented on screen to the tune of the \"Kimigayo\" (1870) The ice cream truck scene uses the tune of the opening aria of Papageno, from \"The Magic Flute\" (1791) by Mozart. When Bugs professes his hatred of the peace and quiet, demanding someone to get him out of this place, the tune is the \"Ride of the Valkyries\".\n\nNeil Lerner attempts to decipher Carl Stalling's intentions in quoting Wagner at the end of the battle scenes. He suggests that it is connected to the role of the Valkyries, taking fallen warriors to Valhalla. In this case, the use is ironic as Stalling would not view the deceased Japanese soldiers as fallen heroes who deserve an afterlife paradise.\n\nAs Bugs signals the American ship, the tune is from the scene where Brünnhilde announces her pregnancy. Lerner suggests that Stalling was inspired by the name of Siegfried, \"peace through victory\". Stalling could intend the scene to represent the United States reaching such a peace. Alternatively, he might be inspired by the stark isolation of Brünnhilde on a rocky mountain – in which case, the reference would have been Bugs being trapped on the island.\n\n\n\"Bugs Bunny, castaway on a Pacific isle, thinks the setting is ideal until he finds his paradise infested with Japanese soldiers. How he single-handedly exterminates the enemy makes for a laugh-filled few minutes of typical Bugs antics, off-screen remarks and action in this Technicolor cartoon produced by Leon Schlesinger.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24446456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24446456", "title": "C-K theory", "text": "C-K theory\n\nC-K design theory or concept-knowledge theory is both a design theory and a theory of reasoning in design. It defines design reasoning as a logic of expansion processes, \"i.e.\" a logic that organizes the generation of unknown objects. The theory builds on several traditions of design theory, including systematic design, axiomatic design, creativity theories, general and formal design theories, and artificial intelligence-based design models. Claims made for C-K design theory include that it is the first design theory that:\n\n\nThe name of the theory is based on its central premises: the distinction between two spaces:\n\nThe process of design is defined as a \"double expansion\" of the C and K spaces through the application of four types of operators: C→C, C→K, K→C, K→K\n\nThe first draft of C-K theory was sketched by Armand Hatchuel, and then developed by Hatchuel and his colleague, Benoît Weil. Recent publications explain C-K theory and its practical application in different industries. C-K theory is a research field and a teaching area in several academic institutions in France, Switzerland, Israel, the UK, the USA, and Sweden.\n\nC-K theory was a response to three perceived limitations of existing design theories:\n\n\nC-K theory claims to have overcome these three limitations. It uses an approach which is domain-independent and which allows acting on unknown objects, and changes of the definitions of known objects during the process (\"revision of objects' identities\"). C-K theory was shown by Hatchuel and Weil to be closely related to Braha's Formal Design Theory and its clarification by Braha and Reich’s Coupled Design Theory, which are both based on topological structures for design modeling.\n\nThe core idea behind C-K theory is to define rigorously a design situation. A brief is an incomplete description of objects that do not exist yet and are still partly unknown. The first step in C-K theory is to define a brief as a concept, through the introduction of a formal distinction between concept and knowledge spaces; the second step is to characterize the operators that are needed between these two spaces.\n\nThe knowledge space is defined as a set of propositions with a logical status, according to the knowledge available to the designer or the group of designers. The knowledge space (i.e. K-Space) describes all objects and truths that are established from the point of view of the designer. Then K-Space is expandable as new truths may appear in it as an effect of the design process. Conversely, the structure and properties of the K-Space have a major influence on the process.\n\nA concept is defined as a proposition without a logical status in the K-Space. A central finding of C-K theory is that concepts are the necessary departure point of a design process. Without concepts, design reduces to standard optimization or problem-solving. Concepts assert the existence of an unknown object that presents some properties desired by the designer. Concepts can be partitioned or included, but not searched nor explored.\n\nBuilding on these premises, C-K theory shows the design process as the result of four operators: C→K, K→C, C→C, K→K.\n\n\nThe process can be synthesized through a design square. One design solution for a first concept C0 will be a path in the C-space that forms a new proposition in K. There may exist several design paths for the same C0.\n\nThe following graphical representation summarises the design process using C-K theory.\nCrazy concepts are concepts that seem absurd as an exploration path in a design process. Both C-K theory and practical applications have shown that crazy concepts can benefit the global design process by adding extra knowledge, not to be used to pursue that \"crazy concept\" design path, but to be used to further define a more \"sensible concept\" and lead to its eventual conjunction. The following image is a graphical representation of this process.\nThe creative aspect of Design results from two distinct expansions: C-expansions which may be seen as \"new ideas\", and K-expansions which are necessary to validate these ideas or to expand them towards successful designs.\n\nDomain dependent design theories are built on some specific structure of the K-space, either by assuming that some objects have invariant definitions and properties (like in all engineering fields), or by assuming that the K-space presents some stable structure (e.g. that the functions of an object can be defined independently from its technical realization, as in systematic design theory).\n\nAt The Design Society's 2009 International Conference on Engineering Design, an awarded-paper links scientific discovery and design process using C-K theory as a formal framework. It is suggested that a science of design is possible, and complementary to the more traditional bounded rationality.\n\nMathematical approaches to design have been developed since the 1960s by scholars such as Christopher Alexander, Hiroyuki Yoshikawa, Dan Braha and Yoram Reich. They tended to model the dynamic co-evolution between design solutions and requirements. Within the field of engineering design, C-K theory opens new modelling directions that explore connections with basic issues in logic and mathematics; these are different from the classic use of scientific models in design. It has been argued that C-K theory has analogies with forcing in set theory, and with intuitionistic mathematics.\n\nC-K theory has been applied in several industrial contexts since 1998, mainly in France, Sweden and Germany. It is generally used as a method that increases the innovative capacity of design and R&D departments. C-K theory has also inspired new management principles for collaborative innovation, with the aim of overcoming the limitations of standard design management methods.\n"}
{"id": "49727085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49727085", "title": "Centenary of Western Australian Women's Suffrage Memorial", "text": "Centenary of Western Australian Women's Suffrage Memorial\n\nThe Centenary of Western Australia Women's Suffrage Memorial is located in the Western Australia Botanic Garden, within Kings Park in Perth, Western Australia. It commemorates the hundredth anniversary of women achieving the right to vote equally with men in Western Australian elections.\n\nThe memorial was commissioned during plans for commemorating the centenary of women's suffrage in Western Australia, and was designed by artist Tony Jones. It was constructed by students from the Western Australia School of Art and Design and installed in 1999.\n\nThe memorial artwork, known as the Bookleaf Memorial, is of an open book with pages that have apparently been blown away by the wind. The pages of the book rest on the ground in the shape of leaves. \n\n"}
{"id": "4416663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4416663", "title": "Chola art", "text": "Chola art\n\nThe period of the imperial Cholas (c. 850 CE - 1250 CE) was an age of continuous improvement and refinement of Dravidian art and architecture. They utilised their prodigious wealth earned through their extensive conquests in building long-lasting stone temples and exquisite bronze sculptures.\n\nThe chola temples were built during chola rule.The Cholas built their temple in the traditional way of the Pallava dynasty, who were themselves influenced by the Amaravati school of architecture. The Chola artists and artisans further drew their influences from other contemporary art and architectural schools and elevated the Dravidian temple design to greater heights. The Chola kings built numerous temples throughout their kingdom, which normally comprised the plains, Central and Northern Tamil Nadu and at times the entire state of Tamil Nadu as also adjoining parts of modern Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. In the evolution of the Chola temple architecture we can roughly see three major phases, beginning with the early phase, starting with Vijayalaya Chola and continuing till Sundara Chola, the middle phase of Rajaraja Chola and Rajendra Chola when the achievements scaled heights never reached before or since and the final phase during the Chalukya Chola period of Kulottunga Chola I till the demise of the Chola empire.\n\nThe Cholas in addition to their temples, also built many buildings such as hospitals, public utility buildings and palaces. Many such buildings find mention in their inscriptions and in contemporary accounts. The golden palace that Aditya Karikala supposedly built for his father Sundara Chola is an example of such a building. However, such buildings were of perishable materials such as timber and fired bricks and have not survived the ravages of time.\n\nPallavas were the first recognisable South Indian dynasty who indulged in the pursuit of architectural innovations. The first seeds of Dravidian temple architecture in Tamil Nadu were possibly sown during this period. The temple architecture evolved from the early cave temples and monolith temples of Mamallapuram to the Kailasanatha and Vaikuntaperumal temples of Kanchipuram. This architecture style formed the foundation from which the Cholas, who were in close contact with the Pallavas during their periods of decline, took some valuable lessons according to Nilakanta Sastri, in his \"A History of South India\"\nThe early Cholas built numerous temples. Aditya I and Parantaka I were prolific builders for their faith. Inscriptions of Aditya I record that he built a number of temples along the banks of the river Kaveri. These temples were much smaller in comparison to the huge monumental structures of the later Cholas and were probably brick structures rather than stone.\n\nThe Vijayalacholeswaram near Pudukkottai in Tamil Nadu is an example of a surviving early Chola building. The style of this structure clearly shows Pallava influences in the design. It has an unusual arrangement of a circular garba griha (where the deity resides) within a square \"prakara\" - circumbulatory corridor. Above this rises the \"vimana\" or the tower in four diminishing storeys of which the lower three are square and the top circular. Each level is separated from the next by a cornice. The whole structure is surmounted by a dome which in turn is topped with a stone \"kalasa\" - a crest. Very faint traces of paintings can be seen inside on the walls. These paintings are dated not earlier than the 17th century. The little temple of Nageswara at Kumbakonam is also of the same period.\n\nThe Koranganatha Temple at Srinivasanallur near Hirapalli is an example of the period of Parantaka I. This temple is situated on the banks of the river Kaveri, and is a small temple with beautiful sculptures on every surface. The base of the wall has a row of sculpted mythical animals that were a unique feature of Chola architecture. The first floor is made of bricks which have been plastered.\n\nMuvarkovil Temple in the Pudukkottai area was built by a feudatory of Parantaka Chola II during the second half of the tenth century. As the name suggests, the temple complex has three main shrines standing side by side in a row, along the north-south direction, facing west. Out of these three, only two, the central and southern \"vimanams\" (towers) are now extant. Of the third or the northern shrine, the basement alone remains. The architectural style of these shrines exhibit clear concordance with the later Chola temples.\n\nTemple building received great impetus from the conquests and the genius of Rajaraja Chola and his son Rajendra Chola I. A number of smaller shrines were built during the early phase of this period. Notable amongst these is the Tiruvalisvaram temple near Tirunelveli. The temple is covered with exquisite well composed sculptures and friezes some containing comic figures. The entire cornice of the temple tower is embellished with designs of creepers and foliage. Other examples of such temples can be seen at the Vaidyanatha Temple at Tirumalavadi and the Uttara Kailasa Temple at Thanjavur.\n\nThe maturity and grandeur to which the Chola architecture had evolved found expression in the two magnificent temples of Thanjavur and Gangaikondacholapuram. The magnificent Siva temple of Thanjavur, completed around 1009 CE is a fitting memorial to the material achievements of the time of Rajaraja. The largest and tallest of all Indian temples, it is a masterpiece constituting the high-water mark of South Indian architecture.\n\nIt is in this temple that one notices for the first time two \"gopuras\" (towers oriented in the same direction). They are architecturally coeval with the main vimana and are referred to in inscriptions as \"Rajarajan tiruvasal\" and \"Keralantakan tiruvasal\". In spite of the massive size of the \"gopuras\", the \"vimana\", rising majestically to a height of 190 feet, continues to dominate and it is only in the subsequent period that a change in the gradation of magnitude takes place.\n\nEpigraphic evidence reveals that Rajaraja started building this temple in his 19th regnal year and it was completed on 275th day of his 25th regnal year (1010 CE), taking only 6 years. Rajaraja named this temple as Rajarajesvaram and the deity Shiva in Linga form as Peruvudaiyar, the temple is also known in the deity's name as Peruvudaiyarkovil. In later period Maratha and Nayaks rulers constructed various shrines and gopurams of the temple. In later period when the Sanskrit language was more popular during the Maratha rule the temple was named in Sanskrit as Brihadisvaram and the deity as Brihadisvara.\n\nThis temple carries on its walls the engraved evidence of the elaborate administrative and financial procedures concerning the day-to-day administration of the temple. The inscriptions give, apart from a comprehensive history of the times, a full enumeration of all the metallic images set up in the temple. Numbering about sixty-six, these icons are referred to with a description of the minutest details of size, shape and composition. This alone is a mine of information for the art historian.\n\nThe temple stands within a fort, whose walls are later additions built in the 16th century by the Nayaks of Tanjore. The towering \"vimanam\" is about 200 feet in height and is referred to as Dakshina Meru (Southern Mountain). The octagonal \"Shikharam\" (crest) rests on a single block of granite weighing 81 tons. It is believed that this block was carried up a specially built ramp built from a site 6 kilometres away from the temple. Huge Nandis (figures of the sacred bull) dot the corners of the Shikharam, and the Kalasam on top by itself is about 3.8 metres in height. Hundreds of stucco figures bejewel the Vimanam, although it is possible that some of these may have been added on during the Maratha period. The main deity is a lingam and is a huge, set in a two storeyed sanctum, and the walls surrounding the sanctum delight visitors as a storehouse of murals and sculptures. The temple is built entirely of granite in a place where there is no source of granite.\n\nThough the temple of Gangaikonda Cholapuram follows the plan of the great temple of Thanjavur in most details it has characteristics of its own. From the remains it may be seen that it had only one enclosure wall and a \"gopura\" while the Thanjavur temple has two gopuras and enclosures. It is larger in plan though not as tall, the \"vimana\" being 100 feet square at the base and 186 feet high. The temple, which forms a large rectangle 340 feet long and 110 feet wide occupies the middle of an immense walled enclosure mainly built for defensive purposes. The \"vimana\" has the same construction as in Thanjavur, but the number of tiers making up the pyramidal body is only eight as against 13 in Thanjavur. The most important difference lies in the introduction of curves in the place of the strong straight lines of the Thanjavur \"vimana\". The pyramidal body is slightly concave in its outline at its angles while the sides are curved to produce a somewhat convex outline. These curves enhance the beauty of form of the \"vimana\" though they distract from its stateliness and power.\n\nThe Chola style continued to flourish for a century longer and expressed itself in a very large number of temples. Of these two large temples are worthy of comparison to those of Rajaraja and Rajendra.\n\nThe Airavateswara temple at Darasuram near Thanjavur built during the reign of Rajaraja Chola II is a magnificent structure typical of the stage of architectural development reached in the 12th century CE. This temple has artistic stone pillars and decorations on its walls, in a style bordering on mannerism, with an emphasis on elongated limbs and polished features. Best among them are the dark black basalt figures in the temple niches of Dakshinamurti, the image on the southern side of Shiva in a teaching attitude, and to the west, Shiva erupting out of the pillar of light to convince Brahma and Vishnu of his superiority. The front mandapam is in the form of a huge chariot drawn by horses.\n\nThe final example of this period is the Kampaheswarar temple at Tribhuvanam near Kumbakonam which has survived in good repair as built by Kulothunga Chola III. The architecture of this temple is similar to the temples at Tanjore, Gangaikondacholapuram and Darasuram.\n\nThe Chola period is also remarkable for its sculptures and bronzes. Among the existing specimens in the various museums of the world and in the temples of South India, may be seen many fine figures of Siva in various forms accompanied by his consort Parvati and the other gods, demigods and goddesses of the Saivaite pantheon, Vishnu and his consort Lakshmi, the Nayanmars, other Saiva saints and many more. Though conforming generally to the iconographic conventions established by long tradition, the sculptor could also exercise his imagination within the boundaries of the canonical Hindu iconography and worked in greater freedom during the eleventh and the twelfth centuries. As a result, the sculptures and bronzes show classic grace, grandeur and taste. The best example of this can be seen in the form of Nataraja, the Divine Dancer.\n\nWhile the stone sculpture and the inner sanctum image empowering the temple remained immovable, changing religious concepts during the period around the 10th century demanded that the deities take part in a variety of public roles similar to those of a human monarch. As a result, large bronze images were created to be carried outside the temple to participate in daily rituals, processions, and temple festivals. The round lugs and holes found on the bases of many of these sculptures are for the poles that were used to carry the heavy images. The deities in bronze who participated in such festivities were sumptuously clothed and decorated with precious jewellery. Their every need and comfort were catered to by a battery of temple priests, musicians, cooks, devadasis, administrators and patrons. The lay public thronged the processional route to have a darshan and admired their beloved deity for the lavish depiction of the figure and the grand costumes and jewelry.\nAlthough bronze casting has a long history in south India, a much larger and a much greater number of bronze sculptures in all sizes ranging from massive to miniature were cast during the Chola period than before, further attesting to the importance of bronze sculpture during this period. It should be noted that when in worship, these images are bedecked in silk costumes, garlands, and gem encrusted jewels, befitting the particular avatar and religious context. Decorating temple bronzes in this way is a tradition at least a thousand years old and such decorations are referred to in 10th-century Chola inscriptions.\n\nIn recent times, many of these priceless Chola bronzes have been stolen from their temples or museums, smuggled out of India and have found their way into the private museums of art collectors.\n\nChola period bronzes were created using the lost wax technique. It is known in artistic terms as \"Cire Perdue\". The Sanskrit Shilpa texts call it the \"Madhu Uchchishtta Vidhana\".\n\nBeeswax and \"kungilium\" (a type of camphor) are mixed with a little oil and kneaded well. The figure is sculpted from this mixture fashioning all the minute details. This is the wax model original.\n\nThe entire figure is then coated with clay made from termite hills until the mould is of a necessary thickness. Then the whole thing is dried and fired in an oven with cow-dung cakes. The wax model melts and flows out, while some of it vapourises.\n\nThe metal alloy of bronze is melted and poured into the empty clay-mould. This particular bronze alloy is known as \"Pancha Loham\". When the metal has filled all crevices and has settled and hardened and cooled, the mould is broken off. The bronze figure thus obtained is then cleaned, finer details are added, blemishes are removed, smoothened, and polished well. Hence each bronze icon is unique and the mould cannot be used to create copies.\n\nThe forms of Chola bronzes are very plastic. They are devoid of intricate ornaments and designs in comparison with the subsequent bronzes of the Vijayanagar and Nayaka period. There is gentle grace, a restrained and quiet elegance, an ethereal, out-worldly beauty, and above all else - a life that throbs and pulsates and thereby enlivens the bronze sculpture. By means of the facial expressions, the gestures or \"mudras\" the overall body posture and other accompanying bronzes we can imagine the surroundings and the religious context of the figure of the god or goddess; what instrument or weapon he or she is holding; what he or she is leaning on; and what he or she is doing or about to do.\n\nFor example, in the \"Rishabaandhika\" or the \"Vrishabavahana murthy\" pose, we see Shiva standing with one leg youthfully crossed across the other and his arm elegantly flexed and raised as if resting or leaning on something. In this elegant posture, it can be surmised that the youthful and athletic Shiva is leaning on his bull-vahana, Nandhi, on whose shoulders He is resting His arm.\n\nThe most famous of all the bronze icons is that of \"Nataraja\" or Adavallar. The symbolism presents Shiva as lord of the cosmic dance of creation and destruction. He is active, yet aloof, like the gods on the Parthenon Frieze. Surrounding Shiva, a circle of flames represents the universe, whose fire is held in Shiva's left rear palm. His left front arm crosses his chest, the hand pointing in \"elephant trunk\" position (\"gaja hasta\") to his upraised left foot, which signifies liberation. His right foot tramples the dwarf \"Apasmara\", who represents ignorance.\n\nShiva's right front hand is raised in the \"fear-not\" gesture of benediction (\"abhaya mudra\"), while his right rear hand holds a drum with which he beats the measure of the dance. The snake, an emblem of Siva, curls around his arm. His hair holds the crescent moon - another emblem - and a small image of Ganges, the river-goddess whose precipitous fall from heaven to earth is broken by Siva's matted locks.\n\nShiva as Nataraja or Adavallar is also accompanied by his consort Sivakami.\n\nNotable collections of the bronzes are held by the museum inside the Thanjavur Maratha Palace, the Government Museum, Chennai, Pondicherry Museum, and Indian Museum, Kolkata. Outside India, Chola bronze sculptures are owned by the British Museum, New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Norton Simon Museum, in Pasadena, and the Asian Art Museum in San Francisco.\n\nIn 1931, Chola frescoes were discovered within the circumambulatory corridor of the Brihadisvara Temple, by S.K. Govindasamy, a professor at the Annamalai University. These are the first Chola paintings discovered. The passage of the corridor is dark and the walls on either side are covered with two layers of paintings from floor to ceiling.\n\nResearchers have discovered the technique used in these frescoes. A smooth batter of limestone mixture is applied over the stones, which took two to three days to set. Within that short span, such large paintings were painted with natural organic pigments.\nDuring the Nayak period, the Chola paintings were painted over. The Chola frescos lying underneath have an ardent spirit of saivism expressed in them. They probably synchronised with the completion of the temple by Rajaraja Chola.\n\nThe art of making ornaments of gold and precious stones had reached an advanced stage about the beginning of the 11th century. A large number of ornaments are mentioned in the Thanjavur inscriptions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13723589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13723589", "title": "Clayburn Pottery", "text": "Clayburn Pottery\n\nThe Clayburn Pottery was an English pottery works based in Milner St, Hanley, Stoke-on-Trent.\n\nThe company was established in 1953 and ceased trading by 1960. The Clayburn pottery produced hand painted decorative wares such as lamp bases, small bowls, jugs and cruet sets. These were complementary to the products of the Midwinter Pottery, and Clayburn was established by William Lunt, who was a director of Midwinter. This link was strengthened by the arrival of Roy Midwinter as another director of the company.\nMany of the designs Clayburn produced were similar to those of the Midwinter Pottery, and were intended to sell alongside them. Examples include lamp bases that matched a Midwinter dinner service. In particular, the Midwinter Pottery designer Jessie Tait produced versions of her Fiesta, Prima Vera and Tropicana designs for Clayburn.\n\n"}
{"id": "50982990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50982990", "title": "Directive on the Protection of Trade Secrets", "text": "Directive on the Protection of Trade Secrets\n\nThe Directive on the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information (trade secrets) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure is a Directive of the European Parliament and the European Council which was adopted by the European Council on 27 May 2016 following an agreement reached with the European Parliament on 15 December 2015 and amendment by the Parliament on 14 March 2016.\n\nThe aim of the directive is \"to harmonise the existing diverging national laws [within the EU] on the protection against the misappropriation of trade secrets, so that companies can exploit and share their trade secrets with privileged business partners across the Internal Market, turning their innovative ideas into growth and jobs\".\n\nEU member states are required to \"bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive\" within two years i.e. by May 2018. Trade secret holders will be entitled to apply for remedies following cases of illegal appropriation of documents, objects, materials, substances or electronic files containing the trade secret or from which the trade secret can be deduced.\n\nThe text of the directive is available at https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/dir/2016/943/oj\n"}
{"id": "21765856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21765856", "title": "Elder Michaux", "text": "Elder Michaux\n\nElder Michaux was a religious TV show on the DuMont Television Network, hosted by evangelist Lightfoot Solomon Michaux (1885–1969).\n\nThe show was 30 minutes long, originated as a local program on DuMont station WTTG in Washington, D. C. in 1947, and aired on the DuMont network from October 17, 1948 to January 9, 1949. According to the book \"The Forgotten Network\" by David Weinstein (Temple University Press, 2004), the series also continued locally on WTTG after the network run ended, running to 1951 (see page 162).\n\nThe program was among the earliest U.S. television shows with an African American host, and included religious music and preaching.\n\nAs with most DuMont series, no episodes are known to survive.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11624", "title": "Folk dance", "text": "Folk dance\n\nA folk dance is developed by people that reflect the life of the people of a certain country or region. Not all ethnic dances are folk dances. For example, ritual dances or dances of ritual origin are not considered to be folk dances. Ritual dances are usually called \"Religious dances\" because of their purpose.\nThe terms \"ethnic\" and \"traditional\" are used when it is required to emphasize the cultural roots of the dance. In this sense, nearly all folk dances are ethnic ones. If some dances, such as polka, cross ethnic boundaries and even cross the boundary between \"folk\" and \"ballroom dance\", ethnic differences are often considerable enough to mention.\nThey share some or all of the following attributes:\n\nMore controversially, some people define folk dancing as dancing for which there is no governing body or dancing for which there are no competitive or professional institutions. The term \"folk dance\" is sometimes applied to dances of historical importance in European culture and history; typically originating before the 20th century. For other cultures the terms \"ethnic dance\" or \"traditional dance\" are sometimes used, although the latter terms may encompass ceremonial dances.\n\nThere are a number of modern dances, such as hip hop dance, that evolve spontaneously, but the term \"folk dance\" is generally not applied to them, and the terms \"street dance\" or \"vernacular dance\" are used instead. The term \"folk dance\" is reserved for dances which are to a significant degree bound by tradition and originated in the times when the distinction existed between the dances of \"common folk\" and the dances of the modern ballroom dances originated from folk ones.\n\nVarieties of European folk dances include:\n\n\nSword dances include Longsword dances and rapper dancing. Some choreographed dances such as contra dance, Scottish country dance, and modern Western square dance, are called folk dances, though this is not true in the strictest sense. Country dance overlaps with contemporary folk dance and ballroom dance. Most country dances and ballroom dances originated from folk dances, with gradual refinement over the years.\n\nPeople familiar with folk dancing can often determine what country a dance is from even if they have not seen that particular dance before. Some countries' dances have features that are unique to that country, although neighboring countries sometimes have similar features. For example, the German and Austrian schuhplattling dance consists of slapping the body and shoes in a fixed pattern, a feature that few other countries' dances have.\n\nFolk dances sometimes evolved long before current political boundaries, so that certain dances are shared by several countries. For example, some Serbian, Bulgarian, and Croatian dances share the same or similar dances, and sometimes even use the same name and music for those dances.\n\nInternational folk dance groups exist in cities and college campuses in many countries, in which dancers learn folk dances from many cultures for recreation.\n\nBalfolk events are social dance events with live music in Western and Central Europe, originating in the folk revival of the 1970s and becoming more popular since about 2000, where popular European partner dances from the end of the 19th century such as the schottische, polka, mazurka and waltz are danced, with additionally other European folk dances, mainly from France, but also from Sweden, Spain and other countries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34084240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34084240", "title": "Hanayama", "text": "Hanayama\n\nHanayama is a Japanese toy company formed in 1933. They are best known for their \"Cast\" series of cast zinc disassembly puzzles, which include reproductions of older designs, and new puzzles by Oskar van Deventer and Akio Yamamoto.\n\n"}
{"id": "42968648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42968648", "title": "Her Sister's Secret", "text": "Her Sister's Secret\n\nHer Sister's Secret is a 1946 drama film directed by Edgar G. Ulmer and starring Nancy Coleman, Margaret Lindsay, Phillip Reed, and Regis Toomey. It centers around a woman who falls in love with a soldier. Believing she has been abandoned, she gives her baby to her married sister. The picture was produced and distributed by Producers Releasing Corporation. The screenplay was by Anne Green from the novel \"Dark Angel\" by Gina Kaus.\n\nDuring World War II, Toni Dubois meets soldier Dick Connolly at Pepe's. They have breakfast there the following day, and Dick proposes to Toni, who decides to wait until six weeks have passed before meeting again to see if they truly love each other. However, during the six weeks pause, Dick's leave gets canceled, and Toni believes she was a one night stand because the letter he wrote to her explaining his leave situation becomes lost. Toni decides to visit her sister Renee, who is married to Bill Gordon. When Bill is shipped overseas, Toni reveals she is pregnant from her one night with Dick. As Renee and Bill are unable to have their own child, Renee asks if she can have the baby and tell Bill it is hers. Toni gives birth to a boy, who Renee names Billy. Renee takes the child and Toni agrees not to see little Billy for another three years.\n\nTwo years later, Toni stays home with her ill father, Mr. Dubois. Mr. Dubois tells her to not stay home when he dies. When he passes, Toni leaves and heads to Renee's, where she learns from housemaid Etta that Bill and Renee have gone out of town for a while. Toni attempts to take Billy away but Etta stops her. When Bill and Renee return home, Etta tells them of what happened. Meanwhile, Dick is discharged from the army, and he comes to Renee's house looking for Toni. After he leaves, Renee tells Toni that Dick was at her house. Toni insists upon taking Billy back, but Renee refuses, stating that Billy has become her son after two years. Toni tries to take Billy away again, but Billy runs away from Toni in fear, causing Toni to accept that Bill and Renee will raise Billy. Bill reveals that he knew the truth about Billy's birth, and thanks Toni for allowing them to raise him.\n\nDirected by Edgar G. Ulmer, \"Her Sister's Secret\" was produced by Henry Brash and written by Anne Green. It is based on the novel \"Dark Angel\" by Gina Kaus. Working titles for the film were \"Between Two Sisters\" and \"Once and For All\".\n\nThe film was produced by Producers Releasing Corporation. They increased their usual film budget for \"Her Sister's Secret\", referring to it as their \"first million-dollar production\" in advertising.\n\nProducers Releasing Corporation released the film in September 1946.\n\n\"The New York Times\" wrote of the film, \"In fashioning \"Her Sister's Secret\" as their first million-dollar production, the film makers at PRC may have been imbued with the theory that soap operas not only affect a lot of people but also sell soap and make money. For the romantic drama, which came to the Gotham yesterday, follows the pattern set by many of those lachrymose radio offerings\" and said that \"The sets of \"Her Sister's Secret\" are neat and interesting, attributes, which, sadly enough, can hardly be applied to its story.\" A reviewer for the Northwest Chicago Film Society opined the film was \"a superb melodrama\" and that \"you won’t soon forget \"Her Sister’s Secret\".\"\n\nRichard Brody of \"The New Yorker\" remarked that \"the actors are hardly charismatic, but Ulmer, capturing their frozen energy in the shifting perspective of daringly long takes, infuses them with his rhapsodically compassionate vision.\" Brody also wrote that \"Edgar G. Ulmer cuts loose with a wild creativity that yoked his theatrical imagination to a keen view of the traumatic times,\" and that Ulmer \"wrings the last drop of true emotion from every soap-operatic twist, while also baring the domestic scars of war’s violence, sacrifice, and, above all, silence.\" Leonard Maltin gave the film two and a half stars, saying that it was a \"fair weeper with competent cast.\"\n\nIn 1947, the film was banned in Ireland by Richard Hayes for featuring an unwed mother, a decision which was eventually reversed by the Appeal Board. This reversal was described by Irish film historian Kevin Rockett as \"an indication of the slightly more flexible approached being adopted in the post-war years by the Appeal Board.\"\n\nThe film was restored by the UCLA Film & Television Archive, with funding provided by The Film Foundation and The Franco-American Cultural Fund. A fine-grain was recently struck from the original nitrate negative, from which a new negative and superb new print were produced. Among other earlier exhibitions, the new print was exhibited at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City in November 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45223846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45223846", "title": "Hercules' Dog Discovers Purple Dye", "text": "Hercules' Dog Discovers Purple Dye\n\nHercules' Dog Discovers Purple Dye or The Discovery of Purple by Hercules' Dog is an oil painting by Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens painted circa 1636, towards the end of his career. It depicts the mythical discovery of Tyrian purple by Hercules and his dog, and was one of dozens of oil on panel sketches made by Rubens for the decoration of the Torre de la Parada in Spain. A completed painting based on Rubens' sketch was made by Theodoor van Thulden in 1636-8, and is now held by the Prado Museum.\n\nThe painting shows a scene from an origin myth in the \"Onomasticon\" (a collection of names, similar to a thesaurus) of Julius Pollux, a 2nd-century Graeco-Roman sophist. In Pollux's story, Hercules and his dog were walking on the beach on their way to court a nymph named Tyro. The dog bit a sea snail, and the snail's blood dyed the dog's mouth Tyrian purple. Seeing this, the nymph demanded a gown of the same color, and the result was the origin of purple dye. (Some ancient sources attribute the myth to Melqart, a Tyrian deity identified with Heracles.)\n\nRubens' painting of this story depicts Hercules and the dog on the beach, with the dog's mouth stained. Although the snail in the story should be a spiny murex, the kind of snail from which Tyrian purple was made, Rubens instead depicts a large smooth shell that resembles a nautilus.\n\nRubens' painting was originally part of a cycle of paintings of Hercules, which Rubens painted for the Habsburg rulers of Spain as sketch for a painting intended to decorate their Torre de la Parada, a hunting lodge. The paintings of the cycle contain allegorical references to the Habsburgs and the wealth they had obtained from the conquest of Peru.\n\nThe \"royal purple\" whose origin story this particular painting depicts was used to clothe emperors, and by the time of Rubens it had become a standard aspect of the depiction of royalty and divinity. By showing a scene of Hercules' travels to Phoenicia, the painting also refers to a traditional warning, attributed to the Phoenicians, to stay within the bounds of the Pillars of Hercules, and to the Habsburgs' own passage beyond that limit.\n\nRubens' sketch painting is in the Musée Bonnat in Bayonne and is one of several works on Herculean subjects there. Others include a drawing of Hercules killing the Lernaean Hydra by Italian Renaissance painter Piero di Cosimo and a painting of Hercules killing Diomedes (c.1639–1641) by Charles Le Brun.\n\nGiorgio Vasari also painted the same subject, with a similar subtext referring to the wealth of his patron Francesco I de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany; his version is in Studiolo of Francesco I of the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence.\n\nAn oil painting based on Rubens' sketch by Theodoor van Thulden is in the Prado Museum.\n"}
{"id": "4624459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4624459", "title": "Heriz rug", "text": "Heriz rug\n\nHeriz rugs are Persian rugs from the area of Heris, East Azerbaijan in northwest Iran, northeast of Tabriz. Such rugs are produced in the village of the same name in the slopes of Mount Sabalan. Heriz carpets are durable and hard-wearing and they can last for generations. 19th century examples of such carpets are often found on sale by major auction houses in United States and Europe. Part of the reason for the toughness of Heriz carpets is that Mount Sabalan sits on a major deposit of copper. Traces of copper in the drinking water of sheep produces high quality wool that is far more resilient than wool from other areas.\n\nHeriz rug weavers often make them in geometric, bold patterns with a large medallion dominating the field. Such designs are traditional and often woven from memory.\n\nSimilar rugs from the neighbouring towns and villages of the Heriz region are Afshar, Mehraban, Sarab, Bakhshaish, and Gorevan. The grades of these rugs are primarily based on village name. Serapis, for example, have been considered the finest grade of Heriz since the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nHeriz rugs are of coarse construction. The rugs range from 30 kpsi on the low end to 100–110 kpsi on the high end. It is rare to see a rug over 100 kpsi that would look like an authentic Heriz unless it is an antique silk Heriz.\n"}
{"id": "41038479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41038479", "title": "High-definition fiber tracking", "text": "High-definition fiber tracking\n\nHigh definition fiber tracking (HDFT) is a tractography technique where data from MRI scanners is processed through computer algorithms to reveal the detailed wiring of the brain and to pinpoint fiber tracts. Each tract contains millions of neuronal connections. HDFT is based on data acquired from diffusion spectrum imaging and processed by generalized q-sampling imaging. The technique makes it possible to virtually dissect 40 major fiber tracts in the brain. The HDFT scan is consistent with brain anatomy unlike diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). Thus, the use of HDFT is essential in pinpointing damaged neural connections.\n\nTraditional DTI uses six diffusivity characteristics to model how water molecules diffuse in brain tissues and makes axonal fiber tracking possible. However, DTI had a major limitation in resolving axons from different tracts intersected and crossed en route to their target. In 2009, Learning Research & Development Center (LRDC) at University of Pittsburgh launched the 2009 Pittsburgh Brain Competition to invite the best research team to work on this problem. A price of $10,000 was offered to the team that could track optic radiations, and teams from 168 countries took part in the competition. A winning team from Taiwan revealed Meyer’s loop, which no other team had successfully tracked. The technique was further developed as HDFT between the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University.\n\nHDFT has been applied to traumatic brain injury (TBI) to identify which brain connections have been broken and which are still intact. HDFT allows neurosurgeons to localize fiber breaks caused by traumatic brain injuries to provide better diagnoses and prognoses. HDFT can also be used to determine the optimal surgical approach for difficult-to-reach tumors and vascular malformations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "663962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=663962", "title": "Hornby Railways", "text": "Hornby Railways\n\nHornby Railways is a British model railway brand. Its roots date back to 1901, when founder Frank Hornby received a patent for his Meccano construction toy. The first clockwork train was produced in 1920. In 1938, Hornby launched its first 00 gauge train. In 1964, Hornby and Meccano were bought by their competitor, Tri-Ang, and sold on when Tri-ang went into receivership. Hornby Railways became independent in the 1980s, and became listed on the London Stock Exchange, but due to recent financial troubles is presently majority owned by turnaround specialist Phoenix Asset Management.\n\nHornby was at first a tradename for the railway productions of Meccano Ltd and based in Liverpool, which released its first train, a clockwork 0 gauge (1:48) model, in 1920. An electric train soon followed but was under-designed and the few that were made were sold in France. In 1925, a much more successful electric model was introduced, operating on the high voltage of 110 volts AC power.\n\nSafety concerns saw low voltage 4V and then 6V motors introduced, followed by a reliable 20V AC system, which was developed in the early 1930s. However, clockwork remained the mainstay of the Hornby 0 gauge trains until 1937 and became the only power available in Liverpool-made 0 gauge trains from 1949. Competitors in the UK were Leeds Model Company and Bassett-Lowke.\n\nA factory was established in France, which developed its own range of French outline trains, but Liverpool dominated export activity elsewhere, with large numbers of Hornby trains exported to Australia, New Zealand, Argentina and Scandinavia. Even though the export models were often painted in 'foreign' liveries, Hornby trains looked very British. Hornby attempted to break into the American market by setting up a factory in 1927 in Elizabeth, New Jersey, to make American-style trains.\n\nThese were colourful and attractive, but low-market and only clockwork. They probably would have failed in the marketplace because several established U.S. firms could undercut them and Hornby offered no better-class goods or electric models, but the Wall Street Crash precipitated matters. In late 1929, Meccano Ltd. sold its New Jersey factory to the A. C. Gilbert Company and Hornby trains had vanished from the U.S. market by 1930. The leftover inventory was sold in Canada and in the UK and some of the tooling was reused for products in other markets.\n\nMeccano introduced its OO scale trains in 1938 under the name 'Hornby Dublo'. The locomotives were diecast metal, and the carriages and wagons were generally made of tinplate. This was a very well planned range of electric and clockwork models, successfully consolidating 12 V DC as the standard for OO scale. This led to the adoption of OO as a broadly accepted modelling standard in the UK, whereas much of the rest of the world adopted HO scale. As for their O gauge locomotives, electric Hornby Dublo locomotives ran on a third rail electric system with the track built on a pressed tinplate base.\n\nBoth OO and HO use the same track gauge, but their scales are different. Beginning as literally \"half O gauge\", the HO models of continental prototypes at 3.5 mm/foot scale were workable but Hornby chose to slightly increase the scale to 4 mm/foot for the smaller British prototypes, to provide more internal space for a motor. This has had the effect, remaining to this day, of making their gauge an apparent 4 ft 1 ½ in rather than the true standard gauge of 4 ft 8 ½ in.\n\nThe range expanded quickly, but was curtailed from 1940 due to World War II, production being completely suspended in 1942. Production resumed after the war but did not reach full capacity until 1948. Clockwork models were not produced in 00 scale after the war.\n\nIn 2008, a special commemorative model of LNER Class A4 4498 Sir Nigel Gresley was produced, in period packaging, to celebrate the 70th anniversary of this introduction.\n\nLike its counterparts Bassett-Lowke and Exley in the UK and Lionel and American Flyer in the US, Hornby thrived in the first half of the 1950s but struggled in the second half of the decade. The company was slow to recognise the threat posed by rival manufacturers (particularly Triang-Rovex) and to realise the potential of plastic. In 1959, far too late, Hornby introduced two-rail track and moulded plastic rolling stock (the Super Detail series), but even then the system was complicated and difficult to use in comparison to its rivals. With the benefit of hindsight, the policy of keeping the faith with its existing three-rail users whilst bringing the two-rail system to the market was a mistake that cost the company dearly. Whilst all the newer plastic-wheeled rolling stock was compatible with either system, the locomotives (and track) most definitely were not, requiring the two parallel productions of practically every locomotive* in the range to be offered in both formats. Meanwhile, the company persisted in producing a range of very old-fashioned 0 gauge models, in 1957 completely retooling much of the range instead of taking the opportunity to discontinue it, indicative of major failings at management level.\n\nIn 1964, Lines Bros Ltd., the parent company of rival Tri-ang Railways, purchased Meccano Ltd., and merged Hornby and Tri-ang into \"Tri-ang Hornby\". The former Hornby line was discontinued in favour of Tri-ang's less costly plastic designs. The Hornby Dublo tooling was sold to G & R Wrenn, which continued to make most of the loco range and 'superdetail' rolling stock. Remaining stocks of 0 gauge were either scrapped or sold to the local retailer Hattons.\n\nThe Tri-ang group was disbanded in 1971 when Meccano Ltd's owner Lines Bros. filed for bankruptcy. The former Tri-ang Hornby was sold to Dunbee-Combex-Marx, becoming \"Hornby Railways\" in 1972. By 1976 Hornby was facing challenges from Palitoy and Airfix, both of which were producing high quality detailed models. Detail on the models was upgraded to make the product line more attractive to adult hobbyists.\n\nA 16 channel command control system named \"Zero 1\" was introduced in late 1979. Zero 1 was based on digital, not analog, technology, and as such was a forerunner to the NMRA Digital Command Control (DCC) system, which appeared in the 1990s. Advertisements claimed that 16 locomotives could be operated independently at the same time. Though an important milestone, Zero 1 was not widely successful; the controller units and decoder modules required for the locomotives were expensive, but with clean track and well serviced locos the system worked well. Control of points and other accessories was available in a very simple manner. Locomotives equipped with a Zero 1 decoder could not be used on conventional direct current systems, making it difficult to run one's locomotives on friends' layouts or club layouts. This was a common issue with command control systems in that time period. Locomotives with no decoder could not be used on a Zero 1 layout either.\n\nThe Master Control unit was discontinued in 1985, the Slave controller, Loco Modules, and accessory modules were still available until the late 1980s. The system is still used today by many modellers, highlighted by the demand on such sites like eBay for the items in the second hand market. Despite being on the market for a short time, Zero 1 had the largest installed base among command control systems in the early 1980s in North America, according to a reader survey done by \"Model Railroader\" magazine.\n\nZero 1 had 3 'phased' introductions.\n\nThe system was mains dependent, so a 50 Hz Version and 60 Hz version were available (60 Hz US only)\nMain Master unit discontinued in 1986, and finally the last time Loco Modules were listed was in the 1991 catalogue 'Limited supplies of R955 Loco module are available'. Repairs to Zero 1 units were no longer undertaken by Hornby due to them stating 'Lack of available parts required'.\n\nAs part of the 1980 Rocket 150 celebrations, Hornby released a live steam-powered 3½\" gauge locomotive, a model of the \"Stephenson's Rocket\" A major goal was to make real live steam accessible to an indoor domestic environment. The boiler was considerably smaller than the external diameter, surrounded by a thick insulating jacket to prevent burns. It was fuelled by butane gas, from cigarette lighter refills. To provide more torque from the small cylinders, gearing was adeptly hidden between the cranks and the wheels. The track was of asymmetric moulded plastic units, representing the fishbelly rails of the period. These could be assembled either way round, to give either curved or straight track.\n\nBy 1980, the market was extremely tough and Dunbee-Combex-Marx was liquidated, placing Hornby in receivership.\n\nIn 1980, Hornby became \"Hornby Hobbies\" and in 1981 a management buyout saw the company back on a sound footing. It went public in 1986.\n\nBy the early 1990s Hornby again faced competition from newcomers such as Dapol and established foreign manufacturers, including Lima and Bachmann Industries. Manufacturing was moved to Guangdong province in China in 1995, completed by 1999, in a cost-cutting exercise. As part of the process Hornby also bought in some of Dapol's products and also some of the old Airfix moulds (by then owned by Dapol). Train sets based on Thomas the Tank Engine and Friends and Harry Potter (the \"Hogwarts Express\") have been particularly profitable ventures. In September 2003 Hornby released its first steam-powered 00 gauge locomotive, a model of the record-breaking \"Mallard\". Several other \"Live Steam\" locomotives have now been produced.\nSince then Hornby has bought Lima, an Italian model railway equipment manufacturer that had previously acquired Jouef, a French manufacturer. Some of the ex-Lima models appear in the main Hornby products list. This range is known as Hornby International. This acquisition also included the Rivarossi line of HO-scale products, also originally from Italy, and the Arnold brand of N-scale products. They also took over the Spanish model railway company Electrotren. Electrotren had been the Spanish importer for Scalextric, sold in Spain as Superslot. The takeover was at the request of the Spanish company and was not due to obvious financial problems. They have remained independent outside of the Hornby International umbrella.\n\nWith competition mainly from Bachmann Industries, and to a much lesser extent from minor and generally niche players such as the Danish model railway company Heljan, Dapol, Vi Trains and Peco, Hornby Railways now (in 2008) produce a large range of highly detailed British steam and diesel locomotives, such as the BR 9F, LNER Class A4, SR Merchant Navy, Class 60, Class 50, Class 31 and Class 08.\n\nIn November 2006, Hornby Hobbies acquired Airfix and Humbrol paints for the sum of £2.6 million.\nThe parent company, Humbrol, had gone into administration earlier that year after cashflow problems. Airfix fans had been concerned that it could be the end of the brand, but just as the name Hornby was once a tradename of Meccano, Airfix is now a successful tradename of Hornby.\n\nIn May 2008, Hornby announced the acquisition of Corgi Classics Limited, one of the world's oldest makers of collectable die-cast models of trucks, buses, cars and aeroplanes, from Corgi International Limited for £7.5million.\n\nIn 2009, the Hornby Shop and Visitor Centre was in development. Christmas 2009 saw the launch of the new Hornby Shop at Margate in Kent, with the visitor centre still in production. July 2010 saw the opening of the Hornby Shop And Visitor Centre.\n\nFrom 2015, Hornby plc began to announce a series of declining financial results. The major reason behind the decline Hornby declared was two fold, with the decline in the number of (now aged, and hence older) collecting customers, and a lack of interest in modelling as a hobby in light of the digitization and advancement of the internet games industry. After the PLC shares dropped by more than 50% in a year, at the 2016 results Hornby declared that it planned to cut more than half of the toys it made, after discovering that it generated 90% of its profits from only 50% of its range. In the year to 31 March 2017, revenues fell further to £47.4m from £55.8m, while underlying losses widened to £6.3m from a £5.7m deficit in 2016. The financial declines culminated in July 2017, when the largest shareholder Phoenix Asset Management (PAM) agreed to buy 17.6 million Hornby shares for 32.375p from the second largest - and activist/protagonist shareholder - New Pistoia Income (NPI), which gave PAM a 55.2% holding in the company. This triggered under stock exchange rules a mandatory takeover offer of Hornby by PAM, at the NPI strike price of 32.375p, valuing Hornby at £27.4million. As a result of the takeover, the chairman of Hornby resigned from the company in August 2017, followed by the Chief Executive in September 2017.\n\nIn October 2017 PAM announced their new management team who would join the company and steer through the turnaround. They were Lyndon Davies, former Mettoy employee and owner of Oxford Diecast. Simon Kohler, ex Hornby marketing manager and Tim Mulhall, also from Oxford Diecast and credited with knowledge of the International market, having been the former importer for Hornby International brands in the UK .\n\nThe end of year Annual Report for March 2018 revealed how serious the position was for the company, showing further slumps in revenue (down to £35.7m) and a widening pre-tax loss (up to £7.6m).\n\nWhile Lionel thrived in the O Gauge market, American Flyer in the S gauge, and Bachmann in the HO gauge, Hornby thrived in the OO gauge since Lionels' OO gauge demand dropped in the 1940s and 1950s.\n\nPre-1964 Hornby trains have enjoyed a level of adult collector interest since the 1940s. In 1969 the Hornby Railway Collector's Association was founded to cater for this and currently enjoys a membership approaching 3000, producing 10 journals a year, as well as other literature. Publications on older Hornby and Meccano products are dominated by those published by New Cavendish Books as \"The Hornby Companion Series\", in particular Chris & Julie Graebe's \"The Hornby Gauge 0 System\" and Michael Foster's sister volume on Hornby Dublo. Triang-Hornby and later Hornby products are catered for by the Train Collectors' Association.\n\nLima was an Italian company that was a popular, affordable supplier of model railway material but market pressures in the mid-1990s led to Lima merging with Rivarossi, Arnold, and Jouef. When these consolidations failed and operations ceased in 2004, Hornby Railways acquired Lima's assets. As of mid 2006, a range of these products has been made available under the Hornby International brand, refitted with NEM couplings and sprung buffers and sockets for DCC decoders. Lima also had a popular OO gauge range much like Hornby, which strengthened the case for acquisition.\n\n‘Skaledale’ is a range of resin buildings and track accessories produced for 00 gauge railways by Hornby Hobbies Ltd. Production began in 2003 when an initial range of only 6 items were distributed into the market place. The interest and demand proved so positive that the range increased the following year to include new domestic style buildings plus the introduction of station and trackside buildings.\n\nMany of the models are similar to those of 'Lyddle End' (a range which followed 'Skaledale'), but these “N” Gauge buildings are produced to a smaller scale of 1:148.\n\nThe Skaledale range comprises station buildings, platforms, trackside accessories, shops, houses, churches, monuments and street furniture.\n\nForbes Outfitters and St. Andrews Church for example, provided the inspiration for their scaled down models, although others are adapted to suit a particular price point or subject. The station and trackside buildings are inspired by actual structures but again in some cases adapted to suit manufacturing constraints. Some of the station pieces were inspired by Goathland railway station.\n\nLyddle End is the range of N scale model railway buildings for Hornby Railways. The buildings are created from high quality die cast resin and are made to represent the fictional village of Lyddle End, somewhere in England. Most of the buildings are models of GWR style buildings made out of red sandstone.\n\nHornby created these buildings thanks to the success of their 00 gauge buildings, which they call \"Skaledale\". Many of the buildings are the same as their Skaledale equivalent, except in different scales, to save the cost of designing a new model. They are generally released about 6 months to a year behind their OO counterparts. When Hornby announced their 2010 range, Lyddle End was not mentioned, presumably ended.\n\nAn attempt to build the world's longest model railway formed the final episode of \"James May's Toy Stories\".\nMay, who had previously identified the train set as his \"absolute favourite\", hoped that a train would run successfully along the length of the Tarka Trail, which is a disused long railway line in North Devon.\n\nHornby was heavily involved, providing the track and the prototype of their OO gauge British Rail Class 395 \"Javelin\" train. Simon Kohler, marketing manager of Hornby model railways, said that the train which travels at just failed two miles short of Bideford station; but he also told BBC News \"Even though the last locomotive gave up the ghost at Instow, we did link the track. In April 2011 James tried again, this time against the Germans. All the trains reached their destinations and the British team won.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50139206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50139206", "title": "Hossein Rajabian", "text": "Hossein Rajabian\n\nHossein Rajabian (; born 5 July 1984) is an Iranian Filmmaker, Writer and Photographer who was imprisoned in 2015 on charges related to his filmmaking.\n\nHossein Rajabian started off his artistic career in a theater school. Later he made his debut in cinema by making and editing short and documentary films. His artistic résumé is dotted with different projects ranging from making (feature) films, writing a number of screenplays for feature films, essays on cinema, plays, and carrying out artistic-photographical projects and film workshops. He also found his way into the Faculty of Art and Architecture in Tehran and studied dramatic literature, but he never finished his studies there. Later he gained admission to the University of Music and Performing Arts, Vienna to continue his studies in cinema and theater, but he was captured by security forces and his passport was seized before setting out for Austria and was barred from taking up academic studies at home and abroad. \"People in distance\" is the name of a black and white photography project implemented by Hossein Rajabian.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAfter finishing his first feature film, Rajabian was arrested by Iranian security forces on 5 October 2013 outside his office in Sari alongside two musicians, and was transferred to Ward 2-A of Evin Prison where all three of them were held in solitary confinement for more than two months and were threatened with televised confessions. He was released on bail (around $66,000) in mid-December, pending trial. Two years later, his case was heard at Branch 28 of Tehran Revolutionary Court which was presided over by Judge Moghisseh (Summer 2015). He was sentenced to six years in prison and fines for pursuing illegal cinematic activities, launching propaganda against the establishment and hurling insults at sanctities. On appeal, his sentence was changed to three years imprisonment and three years of suspended jail and fines.\n\nHossein Rajabian was sent to the ward 7 of Evin Prison in Tehran. After spending one third of his total period of imprisonment (that is 11 months), he went on hunger strike to protest against unjust trial, lack of medical facilities, and transfer of his brother to another ward called section 8 of the same prison. During the first hunger strike period, which lasted 14 days, he was transferred to hospital because of pulmonary infection and he could not continue his hunger strike because of the interference of the representative of the prosecutor who was sent as an intermediary. After some time, he sent an open letter to the judicial authorities of Iran and went again on strike which brought him the supports of international artists. After 36 days of hunger strike, he could convince the judicial authorities of Iran to review his case and grant him medical leave for the treatment of his left kidney suffered from infections and blood arising out of hunger strike. he, after a contentious struggle with the judicial officer of the prison was sent to the ward 8 for punishment.\n\nAfter imprisonment of Hossein Rajabian, senior officials of the world started to react officially to this sentence. For instance, Ban Ki-moon, secretary general of the United Nations, issued a special declaration about the human rights in the world. In the ninth page of the annual declaration, he refers to the conditions of Hossein Rajabian in the Iranian prisons, and asks the Iranian authorities to release this filmmaker unconditionally. UN Special Rapporteur for human rights in Iran Asma Jahangir, in her annual report called for the unconditional release of Hossein Rajabian and other prisoners in Iran. It can be referred to the protesting speech delivered by Wilfred Moore, the Canadian Liberal Senator in the senate against the Iranian authorities and in support of Hossein Rajabian. After the imprisonment of Hossein Rajabian, Åse Kleveland who is a Norwegian an artist and political leader declared her support to him, and asked for unconditional release of him and all artists imprisoned throughout the world. Following that, Philip Luther, the head of Amnesty International published an official video talking about Hossein Rajabian and asked all artists of the world to launch a worldwide campaign to support him. After organizing an international petition by the Amnesty International, Johnny Depp, the American actor, and Peter Gabriel, the well-known musician initiated a campaign with the motto \"Art is not a Crime\" to protest against censorship and support Rajabian and all other imprisoned artists.\n\nA petition was signed by more than 12,000 people of different human right activists and artists addressing the Iranian authorities to review the judicial case of Rajabian and several other prisoners. Finally, the United Nations Human Rights Committee unanimously passed a resolution against Iranian government for the flagrant violation of human rights as a reaction to the collective hunger strike of Hossein Rajabian and seven other political and ideological prisoners of Evin Prison. Following that, the United States Senate extended the sanctions imposed on Iran for the violation of human rights for another ten years. The citizens of European countries initiated a supporting campaign and a sit-in in front of the Iranian Embassies in different countries while showing his photos. The annual report U.S. Department of State on Human Rights in Iran in 2016, to the situation of prisoner filmmaker Hossein Rajabian.\n\nIn protest at his sentence and seizure of his film materials, Hossein Rajabian released the medium-quality copy of his film \"The Upside-down Triangle\" online.\n\nThe news on the imprisonment of Hossein Rajabian, the Iranian artist, had globally great worldwide reflection, and it was covered by many news agencies including Washington Post, Guardian,Independent, Al-Arabiya, BBC, Le Figaro, CNN, AL JAZEERA etc. The arrest and conviction of Hossein Rajabian was given extensive coverage by media outlets in Iran and other countries.In an exclusive interview, Amnesty International's Deputy Director for the Middle East and North Africa Said Boumedouha expressed objection to Rajabian's sentence. Afterwards, Amnesty International launched a global campaign and petition calling on all artists across the world to sign the petition and join the campaign. More than 20,000 artists from four corners of the world joined the campaign, chief among them musician-turned-actor Jared Leto, an Oscar winning actor, and Ai Weiwei, a Chinese contemporary artist and activist, Reza Deghati Iranian Photographer, keyhan kalhor Iranian musician, Nazanin Bonyadi Iranian-British Actres, Shirin Neshat Iranian-American Artist, Nasrin soutodeh Iranian activist & Lawyer, Bahman Ghobadi Kordish-Iranian Director, Shirin Ebadi Nobel Peace Prize winner and Jafar Panahi Iranian Director By Take Video and who released the news on their Twitter & Instagram and Facebook pages.\n\nEarlier, other institutions such as PEN International, International Campaign for Human Rights [in Iran], European Council of Artists (ECA), the European Composer and Songwriter Alliance, Freemuse [Freedom of Musical Expression], etc. simultaneously released a statement calling on Iranian authorities to release Rajabian. In another move, as many as 165 individuals involved in media and cinema activities in Iran and foreign countries sent a letter to Minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance Ali Jannati, and UN Special Rapporteur for human rights in Iran Ahmed Shaheed, in his annual report called for the unconditional release of Hossein Rajabian and two other prisoners.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40626685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40626685", "title": "Iran Heritage Foundation", "text": "Iran Heritage Foundation\n\nThe Iran Heritage Foundation (IHF) is a non-political UK registered charity with a mission to promote and preserve the history, languages and cultures of Iran and the Persianate world, covering all periods of Iranian civilization from ancient to modern.\n\nThe Iran Heritage Foundation was founded in the UK in 1990 and registered as a charity in 1991 (no. 1001785). It is funded by contributions from individuals and corporations, and through various fundraising events. The Foundation does not accept financial support from any government organisations or lobbying groups. IHF is governed by a body of trustees supported by an advisory board and grant-giving committees.\n\n\n\n\nIn 2010 IHF established an independent parallel organisation in the USA known as IHF America. This organisation supported a curatorial post at the Freer Sackler gallery in Washington DC and played a major role in the British Museum’s tour of the Cyrus Cylinder exhibition to five different US venues in 2013.\n\nThe remit of IHF is wide and includes archaeology, history, art history, literature, the performing arts, film, photography, music and contemporary art. IHF achieves its objectives by organising and supporting exhibitions, cultural events and conferences, giving grants, sponsoring publications, and supporting posts in universities and museums. Cultural/educational institutions that have been supported by IHF include the universities of Cambridge, Edinburgh, Exeter, London, Oxford, Reading, and St Andrews, and the British Library, the British Museum, the Courtauld Institute of Art, Tate Modern, and the Victoria & Albert Museum.\n\nThe Foundation organises a regular series of events including lectures, panel discussions, performances, and film screenings. Major international conferences organised by IHF include: ‘Iran's Natural Heritage’ (2014); ‘From Persepolis to Isfahan: Safeguarding Cultural Heritage’ (2015); and two conferences on Tappeh Sialk and ancient Kashan (2017, 2018). \n\nIHF also awards annual grants for academic and scholarly research as well as for contemporary and performing arts projects and festivals. These grants are awarded by two separate committees made up of external advisors.\n\nIHF supports and sponsors events and activities which promote Iranian culture and history, including exhibitions such as ‘Forgotten Empire’ and ‘Shah Abbas’ at the British Museum in 2005 and 2009. Additionally, the 2013 exhibition ‘The Cyrus Cylinder and Ancient Persia’, which toured around the US, was organised by the British Museum in partnership with the Iran Heritage Foundation and the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. An ongoing major project supported by the IHF is the Golha Archive, an online digitized and fully indexed archive of the Golha radio programmes broadcast on Iranian National Radio from 1956 until 1979.\n\nIranian studies\n\n"}
{"id": "1644483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1644483", "title": "Ismail Gulgee", "text": "Ismail Gulgee\n\nIsmail Gulgee – The Gulgeez (25 October 1926 – 16 December 2007) \"Pride of Performance, Sitara-e-Imtiaz (twice), Hilal-e-Imtiaz,\" was a Pakistani artist born in Peshawar. He was a qualified engineer in the US and self-taught abstract painter and portrait painter. Before 1959, as portraitist, he painted the entire Afghan Royal Family. From about 1960 on, he was noted as an abstract painter influenced by the tradition of Islamic calligraphy and by the American \"action painting\" idiom.\n\nGulgee was born on 26 October 1926 at Karimpura locality in Peshawar, Pakistan. Initially, he went to Lawrence College Murree and then to Aligarh University to study civil engineering before heading off to the US for continuing his higher education. Gulgee started to paint while acquiring his training as an engineer in the United States at Columbia University and then Harvard. His first exhibition was in 1950.\n\nGulgee was a gifted and consummately skilled naturalistic portrait painter who had enjoyed (according to Partha Mitter) \"lavish state support\" and plenty of elite commissions in this capacity. Nevertheless, he was perhaps best known worldwide for his abstract work, which was inspired by Islamic calligraphy and was also influenced by the \"action painting\" movement of the 1950s and 1960s (Mitter notes that Elaine Hamilton was a strong influence in this direction). This is perhaps a natural enough stylistic combination since in both Islamic calligraphy and action painting a high value is placed on the unity and energy of gestural flow. As with the works of other action painters or abstract expressionists, Gulgee's canvases were often quite large. He was also known for using materials such as mirror glass and gold or silver leaf in his oil paintings, so that they were in fact mixed media pieces.\n\nAccording to the Metropolitan Museum of Art (see external links): \"Gulgee's calligraphy paintings are abstract and gestural interpretations of Arabic and Urdu letters. His sweeping layers of paint explore the formal qualities of oil paint while they make references to Islamic design elements.\" \n\nBeginning in the 1960s (if not earlier), Gulgee also created sculptures, including bronze pieces that were (like so many of his paintings) calligraphic in form and inspiration, and sometimes specifically based on verses from the Quran [source:artnet.com].\n\nHis paintings were bright and full of color, but the paint was put on with great sensitivity, and paintings vibrate with intense feeling. Areas sing with luminous, thin color; thick blobs of paint pulsate with fiberglass tears, the brush swirls strong and free. The total effect used to be very free, yet considered and well thought out. They work enormously well, because it was all orchestrated with great care and concentration.\n\nHis son Amin Gulgee is also a famous artist.\n\n[Note: the name is also spelled \"Guljee\", \"Gulji\", or \"Gulgi\" in some sources.]\n\nGuljee, as he was famously known, received many requests for his paintings internationally, from the Saudi royal family to the Islamabad presidency. Many of his works are placed in the Faisal Mosque in Islamabad. Guljee received many awards, including from Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Japan and France.\n\nGulgee's exhibitions have mostly been available to few people. Keeping that in mind and high demand from public and lovers of his works, an art gallery for Gulgee has been built in Clifton, Karachi near South City Hospital and Sea View Karachi. Gulgee mostly painted for his own inspirations and vision. Although selected paintings are available for sale in Gulgee art gallery. Gulgee was last based in Boat Basin in Karachi. He has a son Amin Gulgee.\n\nGulgee, his wife Zarrin Gulgee and a maid were found dead by strangulation in their house on the evening of 19 December 2007 by his servants. Police suspect that all three had been murdered. While the bodies were found on the 19th, officials report that they had apparently been deceased for three days, leading to a speculative death date of 16 December 2007. Their bodies were found bound and gagged in separate rooms of the house. The initial cause of death for all three has been attributed to suffocation. According to press reports, his son reported that Gulgee's car and driver are missing. Gulgee was buried on the evening of 20 December 2007 in Karachi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46728561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46728561", "title": "James Andrew Phillips", "text": "James Andrew Phillips\n\nJames Andrew Phillips is an associate professor of philosophy at the University of New South Wales. He is known for his research on philosophy of art and Martin Heidegger's thought.\n\nAfter receiving his MA in Comparative Literature and Critical Theory from Monash University, he studied as a Ph.D. student in philosophy in both Austria and Germany and finished his doctorate under Jeff Malpas at the University of Tasmania. Phillips has been a visiting fellow at the Institute of Advanced Studies in the Humanities (University of Edinburgh) and National Humanities Center in North Carolina.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23167524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23167524", "title": "Kreft's dichromaticity index", "text": "Kreft's dichromaticity index\n\nKreft's dichromaticity index (DI) is a measure for quantification of dichromatism. It is defined as the difference in hue angle (Δh) between the color of the sample at the dilution, where the chroma (color saturation) is maximal, and the color of four times more diluted (or thinner) and four times more concentrated (or thicker) sample. The two hue angle differences are called the dichromaticity index towards lighter (Kreft's DI) and\ndichromaticity index towards darker (Kreft's DI) respectively. Kreft's dichromaticity indexes DI and DI for pumpkin seed oil, which is one of the most dichromatic substances, are −9 and −44, respectively. This means, that pumpkin seed oil changes its color from green-yellow to orange-red (for 44 degrees in Lab color space) when the thickness of the observed layer is increased from cca 0.5 mm to 2 mm; and it changes slightly towards green (for 9 degrees) if its thickness is reduced for four-fold.\n\nThe color of pumpkin oil at increasing thickness or concentration presented in CIELAB colorspace diagram. Straight lines are vectors showing hue (angle) and chroma (length) of the color at maximal chroma (toward the square mark), and the colors of four-fold less or more diluted or thick pumpkin oil (DI and DI). Note that DI is −44.1 degrees and DI corresponds to −8.97 degrees.\n\nDichromaticity (DI and DI) of selected substances, calculated from their VIS absorption spectra by the computer algorithm “Dichromaticity index calculator”:\nMaximal chroma: chroma at concentration (thickness) where the color of the substance has maximal chroma (saturation). Angle at maximal chroma: the hue, which is represented by the angle of the vector to the color with maximal chroma in the CIELAB colorspace diagram.\n\n"}
{"id": "21195897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21195897", "title": "Lenthéric", "text": "Lenthéric\n\nLenthéric, Inc. is a manufacturer of perfumes, cosmetics, toilet preparations, hair spray, and shampoo.\n\nThe name of the company was taken from Guillaume Lenthéric, a French distiller and dispenser of perfumes in late 19th century France. He operated a small salon in 245 rue Saint-Honoré in Paris, France, beginning in 1875. The firm incorporated in 1924. Lenthéric became a subsidiary of Squibb, and was 90% controlled by the parent company in January 1942.\n\nIn 1947 Lenthéric, Inc., experienced a decline in earnings due to higher wages, advertising expenses, and vast returns of merchandise from retail stores, which trimmed inventories. In 1951 the company hoped to increase sales by introducing a new line of makeup called \"Sheer Beauty\". It sold for less than $5. The firm also reduced the price of \"Debo\" deodorant from $1.35 to $1.00. This was accomplished by making the product in a plastic squeeze bottle rather than a glass bottle with atomizer.\n\nSquibb had manufacturing plants in Brooklyn, New York and New Brunswick, New Jersey in July 1952. It controlled the Squibb Building at Fifth Avenue and 58th Street in New York City. Squibb was acquired by the Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation in the late summer of 1952. Helene Curtis Industries, Inc., of Chicago, Illinois acquired the Lentheric, Inc., division of the Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation in October 1956.\n\nIn 1990, Old Bond Street, 88.5% owned by Wasserstein Perella & Co., purchased Lenthéric and Yardley from SmithKline Beecham. In 1998, Old Bond Street collapsed and Lenthéric was sold to Shaneel Enterprises Ltd.\n\n"}
{"id": "38946046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38946046", "title": "Lichtrouten Luedenscheid", "text": "Lichtrouten Luedenscheid\n\nLichtrouten is a festival with focus on professional light art and lighting design which takes place regularly in Lüdenscheid, Germany.\n\nSince 2002 Bettina Pelz and Tom Groll are the artistic directors.\nIn 2004 the festival received the \"Innovation Award\" by \"Sauerland Initiativ\". \nIn 2007 it received the \"Martin-Leicht-Award\" by \"Westfalen Initiative\".\n\n\"Black Boxes\" was the subject of the first edition. Instead of a \"white cube\" light art works need darkness to be visible. All installations were shown in blackened containers which were spread around the city's center. Participating artists were Tatsuro Bashi, Danica Dakic, Klaus Geldmacher, Daniel Hausig, Georg Hartung, Hermelinde Hergenhahn, Stefan Hofmann, Nan Hoover, Kazuo Katase, Dieter Kiessling, Francesco Mariotti among others.\n\nThe LED installation „Memories of Wind“ by Stefan Hofmann became a permanent one after the exhibition.\n\n\"Blind Spots\" was the subject of the second edition. Urban spaces which were ignored by city development or disappeared from the public consciousness hosted installations, interventions and performances by Barbara Buchholz and Olga Koumeguer, Yvonne Goulbier, Sabine Kacunko, Mischa Kuball, André-Philip Lemke, Aurelia Mihai, Thomas Roppelt, Helmut Schweizer and Michel Verjux.\n\nThe installation „Souvenirs“ by Helga Griffiths received the Lichtrouten Audience Award.\n\nThe third edition was titled \"Biotopes\". Locations were urban parks and greens. Participanting artist were Sanja Iveković, Magdalena Jetelová, Gudrun Kemsa, Klaus Obermaier, Roman Signer, Jan van Munster, Katarina Veldhues and Gottfried Schumacher.\n\nAll works in 2005 were located in car parks around the city's center. The edition was titled \"Park Sceneries\". Participating artists were Christian Boltanski, Klaus Obermaier, Katarina Veldhues and Gottfried Schumacher.\n\nFor \"Architecture of Remembrance\" public spaces like buildings, memorials and cemeteries which link citizens and visitors to the past became the sites of works of Danica Dakić, Jean-François Guiton, Ron Haselden, Thomas Koener, Mischa Kuball, Christina Kubisch, Molitor & Kuzmin, Jakub Nepraš, Jaan Toomik, Mai Yamashita and Naoto Kobayashi. \n\nThe lighting design of the cemetery \"Mathilde\" by Gustavo Avilés received the Lichtrouten Audience Award.\n\nThe installation „Firefly Palace\" by Francesco Mariotti stayed in place until 2010.\n\nThe installation \"UVA-UVB\" by Stefan Sous became permanent work in the city's center.\n\nSites which are traces of the industrial heritage of the city became \"Wunderkammers\" with works by Gudrun Barenbrock, Ghíju Diaz de León, Ali Heshmati and Lars Meeß-Olsohn, Olga Kisseleva, Thorbjørn Lausten, Dominik Lejman, Ocubo, Stephan Reusse, Sigrid Sandmann, Gebhard Sengmueller, Ursula Scherrer and Kurt Laurenz Theinert.\n\nThe projection „Des Fischers fette Beute“ by Katharina Berndt stayed in place.\n\nIn 2013 the subject is „The Art of Projection\". Participating artists are Juergen Albrecht, Refik Anadol, Atsara, Cuppetelli and Mendoza, Christoph Girardet, Hartung and Trenz, Dieter Kiessling, Vollrad Kutscher, Justin Lui, Jakob Mattner, László Moholy-Nagy, Klaus Obermaier, Otto Piene, Rainer Plum, Davide Quayola, Diana Ramaekers, Nicolas Schöffer, Robert Sochacki, Max Sudhues und Amy Youngs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2576095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2576095", "title": "Lingua Ignota", "text": "Lingua Ignota\n\nA Lingua Ignota (Latin for \"unknown language\") was described by the 12th century abbess of Rupertsberg, St. Hildegard of Bingen, OSB, who apparently used it for mystical purposes. To write it, she used an alphabet of 23 letters denominated \"litterae ignotae\".\n\nShe partially described the language in a work titled \"Lingua Ignota per simplicem hominem Hildegardem prolata\", which survived in two manuscripts, both dating to ca. 1200, the Wiesbaden Codex and a Berlin MS (Lat. Quart. 4º 674), previously Codex Cheltenhamensis 9303, collected by Sir Thomas Phillipps. The text is a glossary of 1011 words in Lingua Ignota, with glosses mostly in Latin, sometimes in German; the words appear to be a priori coinages, mostly nouns with a few adjectives. Grammatically it appears to be a partial relexification of Latin, that is, a language formed by substituting new vocabulary into an existing grammar.\n\nThe purpose of Lingua Ignota is unknown, and it is not known who, besides its creator, was familiar with it. In the 19th century some believed that Hildegard intended her language to be an ideal, universal language. However, nowadays it is generally assumed that Lingua Ignota was devised as a secret language; like Hildegard's \"unheard music\", she would have attributed it to divine inspiration. Inasmuch as the language was constructed by Hildegard, it may be considered one of the earliest known constructed languages.\n\nIn a letter to Hildegard, her friend and provost Wolmarus, fearing that Hildegard would soon die, asks \"ubi tunc vox inauditae melodiae? et vox inauditae linguae?\" (Descemet, p. 346; \"where, then, the voice of the unheard melody? And the voice of the unheard language?\"), suggesting that the existence of Hildegard's language was known, but there were no initiates who would have preserved its knowledge after her death.\n\nThe only extant text in the language is the following short passage:\nThese two sentences are written mostly in Latin with five key words in Lingua Ignota; as only one of these is unambiguously found in the glossary (\"loifol\" \"people\"), it is clear that the vocabulary was larger than 1011 words. (Higley 2007 finds probable correspondences for two other words.)\n\n\"loifol\" \"people\" apparently is inflected in Latin, yielding \"loifol-um\".\n\nNewman (1987) conjectures the translation\n\nThe glossary is in a hierarchical order, first giving terms for God and angels, followed by terms for human beings and terms for family relationships, followed by terms for body-parts, illnesses, religious and worldly ranks, craftsmen, days, months, clothing, household implements, plants, and a few birds and insects. Terms for mammals are lacking (except for the bat, Ualueria, listed among birds, and the gryphon, Argumzio, a half-mammal, also listed among the birds).\n\nThe first 30 entries are (after Roth 1880):\n\nNominal composition may be observed in \"peueriz\" \"father\" : \"hilz-peueriz\" \"stepfather\", \"maiz\" \"mother\" : \"hilz-maiz\" \"stepmother\", and \"scirizin\" \"son\" : \"hilz-scifriz\" \"stepson\", as well as \"phazur\" : \"kulz-phazur\". Suffixal derivation in \"peueriz\" \"father\", \"peuearrez\" \"patriarch\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26794", "title": "List of science fiction and fantasy artists", "text": "List of science fiction and fantasy artists\n\nThis is a list of science fiction and fantasy artists, notable and well-known 20th- and 21st-century artists who have created book covers or interior illustrations for books, or who have had their own books or comic books of fantastic art with science fiction or fantasy themes published. Artists known exclusively for their work in comic books are not included. Many of the artists are known for their work in both the fantasy and sf fields. Artists who have won the Hugo Award, the World Fantasy Award, or the Chesley Award are noted, as are inductees into the Science Fiction Hall of Fame.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7252341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7252341", "title": "Little Superstar", "text": "Little Superstar\n\nLittle Superstar is a video uploaded on YouTube, which is a clip from the 1990 Indian film \"Adhisaya Piravi\", starring Rajinikanth. The clip features the Tamil actor King Kong (not to be confused with Thavakalai, and another Indian little person actor, E. Shankar also known as King Kong) breakdancing to MC Miker G & DJ Sven's \"Holiday Rap\". Various mashups have also appeared on the Internet using tracks from Cypress Hill, Michael Jackson and others, including Ted's Fear Factory video. The first site to feature Little Superstar and give the clip its name was Dorks.com.\n\nThe video has been featured on YouTube, in Tom Anderson's bulletins on Myspace, on the E! TV show The Soup, the MSNBC shows Countdown with Keith Olbermann and Tucker Carlson, G4TV's Attack of the Show! and elsewhere, as well as having been parodied on Saturday Night Live. Another popular video clip features King Kong (not E. Shankar),(actor) King Kong slapping a man from the same movie.\n\nIn recent years, actor King Kong E. Shankar has choreographed a dance number in a \"Doritos Tandoori Sizzler!\" commercial shown in Canada, which was filmed in India.\n\n\"Mother:\" Hey, hey. What's with the party early morning? Get out everybody, shoo, shoo. [\"Speaking to Rajinikanth, who's lying on the cot\"] Why not take some rest, dear?\n\n\"Rajinikanth:\" OK Mom [\"lights up a beedi as she walks away\"].\n\n\"King Kong:\" Dude, give me a beedi.\n\n\"Rajinikanth:\" Hey! Kids shouldn't smoke.\n\n\"King Kong:\" Buddy, I'm ten years older than you. Give it to me I say.\n\n\"Rajinikanth:\" And if I don't?\n\n\"King Kong:\" I'll skin you alive.\n\n\"Rajinikanth:\" Here you go. \n\n\"King Kong:\" Brother, you don't worry about this silly duel. I'll take care of this myself (with my hands).\n\n\"Rajinikanth:\" Ok.\n\n\"King Kong:\" [\"pauses and looks at Rajinikanth\"] Dude, how (am I doing)?\n\n\"Rajinikanth:\" Great!\n\n\"Rajinikanth:\" Enough. He's going to die!\n\n[\"King Kong returns to cot\"]\n\n\"Rajinikanth:\" Well, is this enough or do you want a piece of me too?\n\nThe clips were incorrectly reported as being from Bollywood, which predominantly refers to the filmmaking industry of Hindi films, in some places on the web and TV media, such as YouTube, Yahoo and the \"Oddball Plays of the Month\" segment of Keith Olbermann show on MSNBC. The film is actually from Tamil cinema, colloquially known as \"Kollywood\", the Tamil filmmaking industry based in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.\n\nKing Kong has been incorrectly described as a child actor in some places. He is actually an adult with dwarfism. He was also never known as a \"little superstar\" in the Tamil film industry and is only the title of the clip given by its uploaders.\n\nA parody version of \"Little Superstar\" starring porn star Ron Jeremy first started turning up on video sharing websites in March 2007. Another parody starring Fred Armisen as King Kong and Bill Hader as Rajinikanth aired on Saturday Night Live on April 21, 2007. Nobody's Watching also created a parody of the video. A parody of \"Little Superstar\" appeared in the season finale Gorillas in the Mist (American Dad!) of the sixth season of \"American Dad!\". It was also cited by Bobby Moynihan as a source of inspiration for SNL's \"Haunted Elevator\" sketch, which aired in late 2016 and featured noted character David S. Pumpkins.\n\n"}
{"id": "36410662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36410662", "title": "Loyalties (1999 film)", "text": "Loyalties (1999 film)\n\nLoyalties is a 1999 Canadian documentary film directed by Lesley Ann Patten about two women—one white, one black—who discover that they are related due to the legacy of slavery in the United States. In 1995, Dr. Ruth Whitehead of the Nova Scotia Museum of Natural History in Halifax met Black Canadian graduate student Carmelita Robertson, who happened to mention that her relatives came to Nova Scotia from South Carolina as Black Loyalists in the late 18th century. Whitehead, whose own family also came from South Carolina, realized that she recognized some of the names of Robertson's ancestors, and together the two women journey to Charleston, South Carolina to explore their shared past. The film also exposes strains in the personal relationship between the two women, with Whitehead descended from wealthy slave owners, and Robertson the descendant of their slaves. \n\"Loyalties\" is co-produced by the National Film Board of Canada and ZIJI Film & Television Productions.\n\nIn 1999, \"Loyalties\" received the Canada Award from the Academy of Canadian Cinema and Television and was named Best Social Issue\ndocumentary at Hot Docs. The following year, it received the Golden Sheaf Award in the category of Best Multicultural/Race Relations documentary.\n\n"}
{"id": "7124827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7124827", "title": "Manoel Theatre", "text": "Manoel Theatre\n\nThe Manoel Theatre (; ) is a theatre and important performing arts venue in Malta. The theatre is often referred to as simply \"The Manoel\", and is named after Grand Master of the Order of the Knights Hospitaller, Fra António Manoel de Vilhena, who ordered its construction in 1731. The theatre is reputed to be Europe's third-oldest working theatre (older than the San Carlo in Naples), and the oldest theatre still in operation in the Commonwealth of Nations.\n\nThe theatre is located on Old Theatre Street (Maltese: \"Triq it-Teatru l-Antik\") in Valletta. It considers itself as the country's national theatre and the home of Malta Philharmonic Orchestra (Maltese: \"Orkestra Filarmonika Nazzjonali\"). Originally called the \"Teatro Pubblico,\" its name was changed to \"Teatro Reale,\" or Theatre Royal, in 1812, and renamed \"Manoel Theatre\" in 1866. The first play to be performed was Maffei's Merope. \n\nThe theatre is a small, 623 seat venue, with an oval-shaped auditorium, three tiers of boxes constructed entirely of wood, decorated with gold leaf, and a pale blue trompe-l'oeil ceiling that resembles a round cupola. The building is a Grade 1 listed building as noted by Malta's Superintendence of Cultural Heritage, and is also scheduled by the Malta Environment and Planning Authority (MEPA).\n\nBefore the construction of the theatre, plays and amateur theatrical productions were staged in the halls and \"piano nobiles\" of the Knights' auberges. These were palaces constructed for the \"langues\" of the Order. The Langue of Italy often held such entertainment, staged by its knights in their Auberge. The records of the Langue even state that on February 2, 1697, some Maltese gentlemen presented a play in the \"Auberge d'Italie.\" Women were prohibited from attending these events after incidents during the Carnival festivities of 1639.\n\nIn 1731, António Manoel de Vilhena commissioned and personally funded the construction of the building to serve as a public theatre \"for the honest recreation of the people.\" The Grand Master bought two houses from the Priory of Navarre, with a frontage on what is now Old Theatre Street for the sum of 2,186 \"scudi\". It has a plain façade, in keeping with Valletta's Mannerist style, and has three floors with a mezzanine-level above the ground floor. The façade incorporates a doorway surmounted by a stone balustraded open balcony, itself supported by three heavy scroll corbels. The interior is decorated in Rococo style. The theatre was possibly designed by Romano Carapecchia, and was built by Francesco Zerafa and Antonio Azzopardi.\n\nConstruction was finished in only ten months. This however, may be because alterations were made to the fabric of the three adjoining houses, incorporating them into a theatre. The building occupied an area of 94½ square canes, which was later altered to 93 square canes and 2½ palms. The theatre is said to have been modelled after the contemporary Palermo Theatre. Its auditorium was originally semi-circular or horseshoe shaped, with an illuminated parterre that served as a small dance floor. The first theatrical performance to be staged at the \"Teatro Pubblico\" was Scipione Maffei's classic tragedy \"Merope\", on January 9, 1732. The actors in that production were the Knights themselves, and the set was designed by the Knights' chief military architect, Francois Mondion.\n\nOn January 26, 1732 a satirical and anti-clerical play \"Il bacchettiere falso\" by Girolamo Gigli was performed. On January 18, 1769, the play \"Il trionfo di Minerva\", by Lentisco Adrasteo was presented on the occasion of Grand Master Manuel Pinto da Fonseca's birthday. A similar honour was also given to Ferdinand von Hompesch zu Bolheim, on his elevation as Grand Master. On this occasion, Hompesch appeared on the balcony thanking the crowd, showering handfuls of gold coins on the people that had gathered to applaud. Over the course of the next half-century, it was the venue for an extensive repertoire of lyric operas performed by companies of visiting professionals or by amateur groups of knights, and French tragedies or Italian comedies. Works by Johann Adolf Hasse, Niccolò Piccinni and Baldassare Galuppi were extremely popular at the theatre during its early years.\n\nIn its early days, the management of the theatre, and censorship of its performances, was entrusted to a senior knight, known as the \"Protettore.\" The first recorded impresario was Melchiorre Prevvost Lanarelli in 1736, and the last Giovanni Le Brun in 1866. From 1768 to 1770 the impresario was a woman, Natala Farrugia. In setting up the theatre, Grand Master de Vilhena set the rent to be paid by the impresario at 320 \"scudi\" per annum, of which 80 accrued for rent from Easter to August, 120 for autumn, and another 120 \"scudi\" from Christmas to Carnival. When dances or \"veglioni\" (masked ball) were held in the theatre, the pit was raised by a scaffolding to the level of the stage. On August 22, 1778, regulations were passed for the lighting of the theatre and corridors on such occasions, with the shading of lights, in any manner, being prohibited. In 1778, to avoid scandal, theatre companies were prohibited from sleeping in the boxes of the theatre. This was a practice which was common during that time. A few years later, in 1783, the \"Teatro Pubblico\" underwent considerable modification and decoration, based on a design by the Roman architect, Natale Marini. A model was displayed before the inquisitor and many knights, and the model was so admired that the Commissioners of the Foundation of the Theatre decided to add a further two \"louis,\" as a bonus to Marini’s invoice of 49 \"scudi.\"\n\nNicolas Isouard's first known opera, \"Casaciello perseguitato da un mago,\" was performed here in 1792, and Isouard became director of this theatre in 1798, after the French captured Malta, and continued to premiere other operas there. Several of Isouard's own works, including \"Avviso ai Maritati\" and \"Artaserse\", were performed at the Manoel during this time. French rule over Malta was short-lived and within two years the islands passed into the hands of Great Britain. An English gentleman who accompanied Abercrombie’s expedition to Egypt in 1801, wrote that:\n\"La Valette possesses an opera, small indeed, but neat, though much out of repair. Italy and Sicily supply it with very tolerable vocal performers, and it is a very agreeable entertainment for the garrison. It was excessively crowded every night by the officers of the expedition, to whom it was a great source of amusement. The price of admission is one shilling.\"\n\nDuring the early British Era, the \"Teatro Pubblico\" was renamed as the \"Teatro Reale\", going through a series of enlargements and re-modellings throughout the 19th century, most notably in 1812, when Sir George Whitmore added today's gallery and proscenium, raised the ceiling by one storey, and added eight more boxes, bringing the total to 67. Whitmore also transformed the auditorium to the oval shape that it has today. Further alterations were made in 1844, when the Manoel’s set designer, Ercolani, repainted the panels on the wooden boxes and had them gilded. Another stratum of silver leaf was added to the panels and ceiling in 1906. Throughout this time, the Teatro Reale was rented out to professional impresarios, who hosted nine-month opera seasons. It was visited by many foreign dignitaries, including Sir Walter Scott, and H.M. Queen Adelaide, the Queen Dowager, widow of William IV of England, who attended performances of \"Elisir d'Amore\" and \"Gemma di Vergy\" at the theatre, during her convalescence in Malta. \"Lucia di Lammermoor\" was given as a gala night in honour of the Queen Dowager, featuring soprano Camilla Darbois. English and Italian opera and operetta were the most popular productions at the \"Teatro Reale\" throughout the 19th century; however, the Maltese public was particularly supportive of operas by Rossini, Bellini, Donizetti and Verdi.\n\nIn 1861, the Teatro Reale was given on perpetual lease, by the government, to Dr. Salvatore Mifsud and Anacleto Conti for an annual ground rent of £236,15, and in 1862, the directum dominium was sold to Emmanuele Scicluna for £7,833.6.8. Subsequent owners were Carmelo Arpa, a chemist (1889) and the Gollcher family (1906-7). The theatre had fallen into disuse in 1866, as a result of the construction of Malta's new Royal Opera House, designed by Edward Middleton Barry, on Strada Reale, at the entrance to Valletta. The theatre began to serve as a doss house for homeless and indigent citizens, who rented out the stalls for a few pennies a night. However, in 1873, the \"Teatro Reale\" - was officially renamed the \"\"Manoel Theatre\", and it enjoyed a brief new lease on life when the Royal Opera House burnt down. But by 1877, the Royal Opera House had been rebuilt, and once more, the Manoel Theatre was eclipsed and fell again into disuse. On December 27, 1922, January 6, 1923 and February 3, 1923, the Manoel Theatre was the venue for the first public airing of Malta's National Anthem, \"L-Innu Malti.\"\" During the Second World War, the Manoel Theatre served as emergency accommodation for victims of the constant bombardment by the Luftwaffe and the Regia Aeronautica. In the early 20th century, it was also used intermittently as the venue for Carnival balls and, for a period of about twenty years, it operated as a movie theatre.\n\nThe theatre was included on the Antiquities List of 1925.\n\nDespite numerous alterations over the years, it retains many of its old architectural features, such as the white Carrara marble staircase, shell-shaped niches, and Viennese chandeliers. Two water reservoirs beneath the floor create an acoustic environment that is so precise, that the hushed page-turnings of an orchestra conductor can be heard clearly throughout the auditorium.\n\nFollowing the destruction of the Royal Opera House by Axis bombardment on April 7, 1942, the Manoel Theatre was expropriated by the Government of Malta in 1956, and was quickly restored to its former glory. It reopened in December 1960 with a performance of Coppélia by Ballet Rambert. In subsequent years the theatre foyer was enlarged by means of the annexation of the adjacent Palazzo Bonici, a grand 18th century palace that was the former home of the Testaferrata Bonnici family, however on January 9, 2007, the Constitutional Court of Malta revoked the 1958 order of possession and use in respect of this property, and ordered that the property be returned to its original owner. This annex currently houses the theatre's bar and restaurant.\n\nThe theatre is being restored by the Manoel Theatre Restoration Committee. Previous restoration attempts done in the 1970s were heavily criticised, with the removal of a balcony and the reinforcement of old stone with new masonry. The first phase of the new restoration took place in 2003, and included the restoration of the paintings on the frontispiece of the auditorium boxes. In 2004, the auditorium was restored by a team of \"Sante Guido Restauro e Conservazione di Opere d'Arte,\" who unearthed paintings that will allow the understanding of the theatre's development. This second phase included the cleaning of the gilt. The third phase included the restoration of the proscenium arch and the boxes it incorporates, while the fourth phase of the restoration project was the ceiling’s restoration, which was inaugurated on October 3, 2006. Although controversial, an application to restore the theatre's façade was approved by Maltese planning and heritage supervisory bodies and was restored in 2017.\n\nToday, the Manoel Theatre continues to put up a broad variety of theatrical productions in both English and Maltese, opera, musical recitals (including lunchtime recitals in \"Sala Isouard\"), poetry recitals, dramatic readings, and an annual Christmas pantomime, produced by the \"Malta Amateur Dramatic Club\". Management of the theatre is currently entrusted to Chairman Michael Grech, deputy chairman Kenneth Zammit Tabona, and board members Mario Philip Azzopardi, Anita Alosio and Lino Farrugia. Many productions are regularly presented, both by local talent and international stars, and the theatre has been a source for the cultural appreciation of the arts in Malta. Since 1960, it has had an official Management Committee and is no longer rented out for whole seasons to impresarios as in the past.The theatre's musical programmes retain some variety, but the main emphasis during recent decades has been on instrumental music. \n\nThe theatre is listed on the National Inventory of the Cultural Property of the Maltese Islands.\n\n\nMany opera singers, musicians and troupes have graced its stage. These include Boris Christoff, Mirella Freni, Rosanna Carteri, Cecilia Gasdia, Louis Kentner, Flaviano Labò, Dame Moura Lympany, Sir Yehudi Menuhin, John Neville, Magda Olivero, Michael Ponti, Katia Ricciarelli, Mstislav Rostropovich, Dame Margaret Rutherford, Steve Hackett, Dame Kiri Te Kanawa and Sir Donald Wolfit. Visiting companies at the Manoel Theatre have included Nottingham Playhouse, the Comédie-Française and the Staatsballett Berlin (Berlin State Opera Ballet).\n\nCoordinates: \n"}
{"id": "3065145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3065145", "title": "Marie-Josée Saint-Pierre", "text": "Marie-Josée Saint-Pierre\n\nMarie-Josée Saint-Pierre (born 1978 Murdochville, Quebec) is a Montreal-based filmmaker most notable for her animated documentary films.\n\nAfter completing a BFA with honours in animation and an MFA in film production at Concordia University, she attended a Berlinale Talent Campus at the Berlin Film Festival in 2004, the Talent Lab at the Toronto International Film Festival in 2007, and participated in a three-month residency in Japan in Sapporo in 2009.\n\nHer films include \"Post-Partum\", \"McLaren's Negatives\", \"Passages\", \"The Sapporo Project\", \"Femelles\", \"Flocons\" and \"Jutra\". \"McLaren's Negatives\", her first animated documentary, was shown in over 150 film festivals and received approximately 20 awards, including the Jutra Award for best animated film. She first became familiar with McLaren's work while studying at Concordia. \"Passages\" recounts the difficulties she had giving birth to her first child at Montreal's Hôpital Saint-Luc.\n\nIn 2004, Saint-Pierre founded MJSTP Films, her animation and documentary production company. There is a chapter devoted to her work in the 2010 book \"Animated Realism: A Behind The Scenes Look at the Animated Documentary Genre\", published by Focal Press.\n\nIn 2009, she was selected as the international artist in residency for the S-AIR Inter-cross Creative Center in Sapporo, Japan. In January 2013, her work was featured in a retrospective at the Cinémathèque québécoise, where she also taught master classes.\n\nIn 2014, the National Film Board of Canada released \"Jutra\", her animated documentary portrait on Quebec filmmaker Claude Jutra that was selected for the Director's Fortnight at the Cannes Film Festival. The film won the Canadian Screen Award for best short documentary as well as the Jutra Award for best short animated film. Saint-Pierre also released the same year the short film \"Flocons\" to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the birth of Norman McLaren. In 2016, she direct the short film \"Oscar\" based on the life and work of jazz pianist Oscar Peterson.\n\nShe produced Co Hoedeman's animated film \"The Blue Marble\" as well as \"The Delian Mode\" by Kara Blake. She also served as artistic director and animator on Patricio Henriquez's new feature film \"OUIGHURS: Prisonners of the absurds\" . She is currently a PhD. student at Université du Québec à Montréal in the program Études et Pratiques des Arts.\n\nHer films include:\n\n\nBest Short Documentary Film, St.Louis International Film Festival 2012 (USA)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53318430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53318430", "title": "Marius Sznajderman", "text": "Marius Sznajderman\n\nMarius Sznajderman (born July 18, 1926 in Paris, France) was a painter, printmaker and scenic designer living and working in the United States. He passed away on 24 February 2018, in Amherst, Massachusetts.\n\nBorn in Paris, he escaped to Spain and then Venezuela in 1942 with his parents. He attended the School of Fine Arts in Caracas and immigrated to the United States in 1949, where he received a Bachelor of Fine Arts and Master of Fine Arts from Columbia University in New York. He settled in Hackensack, New Jersey, where he lived and had a studio for more than 50 years before moving to Amherst, Massachusetts in 2015. His work, which includes painting, prints and collages, as well as set designs, is in more than 45 museum and public institution collections in the United States, Latin America and Israel. He held more than 40 solo exhibitions at galleries and museums and participated in more than 75 group shows around the globe.\n\nBorn in Paris in 1926, his Jewish parents had migrated to France from Poland in 1923. In November 1942 the family fled Nazi-occupied France for Spain before settling in Caracas, Venezuela. Sznajderman briefly studied medicine at the Universidad Central de Venezuela in Caracas but did not complete a medical degree. More interested in art than medicine, he attended the School of Fine Arts in Caracas where he studied painting, printmaking and scenic design. His teachers included illustrator Ramon Martin Durban, scenic designer Charles Ventrillon-Horber and painter Rafael Monasterios.\n\nHe helped found the Taller Libre de Arte, an experimental workshop for the visual arts, sponsored by the Ministry of Education. The Taller Libre de Arte was a center for young artists to work and to meet with critics and intellectuals to discuss avant-garde ideas and artistic trends from Europe and Latin America. Among the notable artists who participated in the Taller Libre de Arte were Ramón Vásquez Brito, Carlos González Bogen, Luis Guevara Moreno, Mateo Manaure, Virgilio Trómpiz, Alirio Oramas, Dora Hersen, Alejandro Otero, Jesús Rafael Soto, Pascual Navarro, Aimée Battistini, José Fernández Díaz, Narciso Debourg, Oswaldo Vigas and Perán Erminy.\n\nSznajderman’s early works as a student and young artist showed the influence of Cubism and Expressionism with subject matter ranging from figures to still life to Venezuelan landscapes. His work often explored Latin American themes, art and architecture.\n\nIn 1948 Sznajderman was awarded the art student’s prize for a watercolor in the annual National Gallery exhibit. \nIn 1949 Sznajderman had a solo exhibition at the Taller Libre de Arte. The exhibit catalogue was written by Sergio Antillano, a prominent Venezuelan writer and critic.\nThat same year, Sznajderman immigrated to the United States to attend Columbia University, where he studied with scenic designer J. Woodman Thompson and printmaker Hans Alexander Mueller. He received a Bachelor of Science degree with a major in scenic design in 1953, after which he was drafted into the U.S. Army. In the military he worked as an artist-illustrator, completing his service in 1955. He returned to Columbia on the G.I Bill to attend Teachers College, where he received a Master of Fine Arts in art education.\n\nDuring the 1950s Sznajderman created set designs for Circle in the Square Theatre, the French Art Theatre and the Felix Fibish Dance Company, all in New York. By the late 1950s, however, his focus was shifting to fine arts and teaching.\nIn 1956 he married journalist Suzanne Messing. They settled in Hackensack, New Jersey, where the couple reared three children.\n\nIn 1960 Sznajderman was among the three founders, along with painters Sam Weinik and Ben Wilson, of the Modern Artists Guild (MAG), an association of modern artists working in northern New Jersey. MAG remained active in the New York metropolitan area into the mid-1980s, with members exhibiting individually and as a group. Among the artists who were early members of MAG were Esther Rosen, Alexandra Merker, Erna Weill, Jerry Goldman, Lillian Marzell and Evelyn Wilson.\n\nIn the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, in addition to painting and printmaking, Sznajderman taught art, art history and design at a number of institutions including New York University, the School of Visual Arts, Fairleigh Dickinson University and the Ridgewood (N.J.) School of Art. He also taught art in New Jersey public schools under federal and state grants. During this period, Sznajderman’s work ranged from drawings, woodcuts and lithographs to watercolor and acrylic paintings and collages. He produced still life, figures, landscapes and seascapes. Inspirations included Venezuelan remembrances, culture and folklore; Mexican art and pre-Columbian imagery; as well as architecture and theater. Other works have been inspired by Greek mythology and the Commedia dell’arte. Contemporary events, such as the Vietnam War and the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr., also inspired some works.\n\nFrom 1974 to 1983 Sznajderman served as director of Galeria Venezuela in New York City for the National Council of Culture and Fine Arts of Venezuela (CONAC) while continuing to paint and exhibit. From 1980 to 1986 he oversaw the selection and coordination of the international editions of prints for AGPA (Actualidad Grafica – Panamericana), a project of the Latin American Container Corporation of America (later Smurfit Carton de Venezuela).\n\nThroughout his career, Sznajderman has also explored Jewish themes, including works in remembrance of the Holocaust. In 1988 he produced a limited-edition print, in collaboration with his uncle, the Yiddish journalist and author S.L. Shneiderman, on the occasion of Shneiderman’s 80th birthday. The print featured a 1938 poem by Shneiderman, \"Elegy for My Shtetl,\" written in Yiddish. The Yiddish text for the print was typeset using the last linotype machine used to print the New York-based Yiddish newspaper, The Forward. In 1989 he designed and supervised the production of a Holocaust memorial monument for Temple Beth El in Hackensack, New Jersey. Other works have explored Nazi concentration and extermination camps, the Vichy government and the Holocaust in France.\n\nFor many years Sznajderman had a deep friendship and intimate creative relationship with Venezuelan painter Oswaldo Vigas. In 1987, following a trip of the two families to the Venezuelan Andes, a two-person show of landscapes by Sznajderman and Vigas was held at the venerable Ateneo de Caracas, Galeria los Espacios Calidos. \nIn 1991 the Contemporary Art Museum of Caracas produced a retrospective exhibit of Sznajderman’s work.\n\nIn 2001 Sznajderman began a collages and collage constructions series using Yiddish as a leitmotif. A selection of the works were exhibited at the Yiddish Book Center, Amherst, Massachusetts in 2005-2006.\n\nIn 2005, Venezuelan poet Hugo Brett Figueroa published the book \"Scargot\" with illustrations by Sznajderman. Sznajderman also illustrated the 1993 book \"Who Were the Pre-Columbians?\" by Bernard Barken Kaufman and \"Magicismos,\" a book of poems by the Venezuelan poet Enrique Hernandez D’Jesus, published in 1989.\n\nIn 2007, Warsaw Ghetto Revolt mural project and a Nazi concentration camp woodcut series created in 1958 and 1959, was exhibited at the Puffin Cultural Forum in Teaneck, New Jersey. In 2011 and 2012 he produced the \"Yanaka\" series of collages on paper and a large collage construction using Chiyogami - traditional Japanese printed paper - purchased in 1990 in Tokyo.\n\nIn 2011 Sznajderman created seven collages using unauthorized lithographs by Salvador Dali as material. The collages were reproduced in a limited-edition booklet titled \"Dali, Dumas and Me.\" The booklet described a series of events involving the late painter and printmaker Jorge Dumas, who had printed the Dali lithographs. The booklet was presented in 2013 during a solo exhibit by Sznajderman in New York City at Chashama Exhibit Space. Proceeds from the exhibit benefited the World Lung Foundation.\n\nMore recently, Sznajderman created a series of print-collages composed from early serigraphs produced in the 1960s. He continued to work and exhibit until the final weeks of his life.\n\nSznajderman's work is represented in the permanent collections of more than 45 museums and institutions, primarily in the United States but also in Europe, Latin America and Israel. They include the Smithsonian Institution, the Library of Congress, Instituto Nacional de Bellas Artes y Literatura in Mexico City, Museo de Bellas Artes (Caracas), the Museum of Jewish Heritage in New York, the Cincinnati Art Museum, the Simon Wiesenthal Center, the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute, the Irish Museum of Modern Art in Dublin and Yad Vashem in Jerusalem.\n\nHe exhibited widely in the United States and South America over the past 60 years. More recent solo and group exhibitions include the Jewish Community of Amherst, Massachusetts in 2017; the Puffin Cultural Forum in New Jersey, 2007 and 2009; the Yiddish Book Center in Amherst in 2005-06; El Museo del Barrio in New York, 2001; Institute of Puerto Rican Culture in San Juan, 1997; Universidad Metropolitana in Caracas, Venezuela, 1993; and the Contemporary Arts Museum of Caracas, founded by Venezuelan journalist Sofia Imber, in 1991.\n\n\nYIVO archives, YIVO Institute for Jewish Research\nhttp://yivoarchives.org/?p=collections/controlcard&id=34316\n\nSocial Networks and Archival Context (SNAC), Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities, University of Virginia \nhttp://socialarchive.iath.virginia.edu/ark:/99166/w6k947d0\n\nNew York Public Library, Archives & Manuscripts\nhttp://archives.nypl.org/the/22122\n\nMuseum of Modern Art Archives, Department of Painting and Sculpture \nhttps://www.moma.org/learn/resources/archives/EAD/P_S_ArtistsRecordsf\n\nTeaneck Public Library, Oral History of Teaneck (2)\nhttp://wwww.teaneck.org/virtualvillage/OralHistory2/rosen.html\n\nEl Universal newspaper, Caracas, Venezuela, December 15, 2012\nhttp://www.eluniversal.com/arte-y-entretenimiento/121215/el-taller-no-fue-un-movimiento-imp\n\nNorthjersey.com, September 11, 2009\nhttp://archive.northjersey.com/community-news/community-events-and-announcements/holocaust-survivors-artists-reunite-for-exhibit-1.987182?page=all\n\nNew York Times, Feb. 5, 1981\nhttps://www.nytimes.com/1981/02/25/arts/marius-sznajderman-prints-to-be-at-cayman-gallery.html\n\nNew York State Archives, digital collections\nhttp://digitalcollections.archives.nysed.gov/index.php/Detail/Object/Show/object_id/17453\n\nUniversity Libraries, University of Maryland\nhttp://www.lib.umd.edu/slses/donors/poetry/elegy\n\nMasterpiece Online\nhttp://www.masterpieceonline.com/bio.php?artistId=7401&id=18B9-DGFH-6E59&name=Marius%20Sznajderman\n\nJewishstandard.timesofisrael.com \nhttp://jewishstandard.timesofisrael.com/art-and-the-righteous-a-puffin-forum-exhibit/\n\nBiblioteca Nacional de Venezuela\nhttp://sisbiv.bnv.gob.ve/cgi-bin/koha/opac-detail.pl?biblionumber=88961\n\nCincinnati magazine, October 1984\nhttps://books.google.com/books?id=Rh4DAAAAMBAJ&pg=PA126&lpg=PA126&dq=marius+sznajderman&source=bl&ots=TjSjHbjJp0&sig=B-HdBAX0S0oUbfWAnRgLTSYFlgU&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwj74M_pnOXRAhUq94MKHXzJCEo4ChDoAQhDMAg#v=onepage&q=marius%20sznajderman&f=false\nNew York magazine, March 16, 1981\nhttps://books.google.com/books?id=A-YCAAAAMBAJ&pg=PA78&lpg=PA78&dq=marius+sznajderman&source=bl&ots=99JVzCxBqv&sig=W5FzL7btt5AzkxIGdZmsrXDjwQE&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjXktGBnuXRAhVG64MKHedyDQ44HhDoAQg0MAU#v=onepage&q=marius%20sznajderman&f=false\n\nOdalys Galeria del Arte, Caracas Venezuela, December 13, 2012\nhttps://odalys.com/odalys/images/exposiciones/cat_taller.pdf\n\nChashama.org\nhttps://www.chashama.org/event/marius_sznajderman\n\nPRLOG.org\nhttps://www.prlog.org/12156563-chashama-presents-the-dali-series-art-exhibit-to-benefit-world-lung-foundation.html\n\nWorldcat.org\nhttp://www.worldcat.org/title/who-were-the-pre-columbians-mysteries-adventures-and-challenges-for-todays-world/oclc/28151996&referer=brief_results\n\nMarius Sznajderman website\nhttp://mariussznajderman.com/\n"}
{"id": "18511212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18511212", "title": "Marks &amp; Co", "text": "Marks &amp; Co\n\nMarks & Co, also incorrectly referred to as \"Marks & Company\" or colloquially as \"84\", was a well-known antiquarian bookseller located at Cambridge Circus - 84, Charing Cross Road, London.\n\nThe shop was founded in the 1920s by Benjamin Marks and Mark Cohen. Cohen was persuaded to allow his name to be abbreviated in the company's name. It provided the basis for the book of correspondence between Helene Hanff and Frank Doel, together with other members of the staff between 1949 and 1968, published by Hanff as \"84 Charing Cross Road\". It was later made into a stage play, television play and BAFTA-winning film.\n\nMarks & Co closed in December 1970. \n\nThe company built a good reputation for itself and had famous customers, including Charlie Chaplin, George Bernard Shaw, Lord Alanbrooke, Michael Foot, royalty and public institutions such as universities and the British Museum.\n\nBenjamin Marks' son, Leo Marks, became a prominent member of the wartime organisation, Special Operations Executive, specialising in codes. His interest in the subject had been born by his father's use of book pricing codes.\n\nDuring the 1930s, Marks & Co were members of a then-secret and illegal \"book ring\", whereby a group of London book dealers declined to bid against each other at auctions. Instead, they would steal value from the auction house and the book's owner when one of them would buy at prices kept low by the lack of competition, then the ring would bid privately between themselves and the surplus would be shared amongst the unsuccessful ring members. The successful ring member would then sell the book, at a profit, from their store.\n\nWhen the secrecy surrounding the bidding ring was broken, a scandal was threatened to be raised in the British House of Commons. In order to avoid this, an undertaking was signed, at the offices of the \"Times Literary Supplement\", by the ring's members to bring the practice (\"if it existed\") to an end.\n\n"}
{"id": "16542478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16542478", "title": "Mary Forbes", "text": "Mary Forbes\n\nMary Forbes (born Ethel Louise Young, 1 January 1883 – 22 July 1974) was a British-American film actress, based in the United States in her latter years, where she died. She appeared in more than 130 films between 1919 and 1958. \n\nForbes was born in Hornsey, England.\n\nShe made her first public appearance on the concert platform giving recitals. Her acting debut was in 1908 on the London stage at Aldwych Theatre. Her American stage debut came in \"Romance\" at Maxine Elliott's Theatre in 1913.\n\nShe took over management of the Ambassadors Theatre in 1913 and had several years experience on stage in Britain and America before her appearances in Hollywood films. Two of her three children by her first marriage in the first quarter of 1904 to Ernest J. Taylor, Ralph and Dorothy Brenda, known as Brenda, were also actors. The middle child of the three, Phyllis Mary Taylor, was not in the acting business. Her second husband was British actor Charles Quartermaine, who married in 1925; the union ended in divorce. She married her third husband, Wesley Wall, an American businessman, in 1935; the couple remained married until her death in 1974.\n\nShe became a naturalized United States citizen in 1943, with one of her character references being Lucile Webster Gleason, actress and wife of actor James Gleason.\n\n"}
{"id": "24596572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24596572", "title": "Merlin (poem)", "text": "Merlin (poem)\n\nMerlin is a partially lost epic poem of the Arthurian legend in which the French knight-poet Robert de Boron reworked Geoffrey of Monmouth's material about the legendary figure of Merlin, writing in Old French sometime in either the late 12th or early 13th century. Together with Robert's other works, \"Joseph\" and \"Perceval\", \"Merlin\" forms a trilogy centered around the Holy Grail.\n\n\"Merlin\" tells the stories of the origin and early life of Merlin, his role in the birth of Arthur, and how Arthur became the king of Britain. It introduced a number of new motifs that later became popular in medieval and later Arthurian literature, also ensuring the lasting place of Merlin as a key character in the story of King Arthur. The poem's medieval prose retelling and its continuations were also incorporated into the French chivalric romances during the early 13th century, collectively known as the Prose \"Merlin\".\n\nWriting \"Merlin\" (c. 1195-1210), Robert de Boron was inspired by Wace's \"Roman de Brut\", an Anglo-Norman adaptation of Geoffrey of Monmouth's \"Historia Regum Britanniae\". The poem is an allegorical tale, relating to the figure and works of Christ. In all of Robert's works, Merlin's part and role in the Arthurian legend becomes much greater than in previous texts, especially when compared to only one minor appearance among all five (and also influential) Arthurian works of Chrétien de Troyes. Robert emphasises on Merlin's power to prophesy along with many instances of shapeshifting, as well as on his connection to the Holy Grail. Only 504 lines of \"Merlin\" in its original poem form have survived to this day, but its contents are known from the prose version.\n\nThe first part of the text introduces the character of Blase, a cleric and clerk who is pictured as writing down Merlin's deeds, explaining how they came to be known and preserved. In Robert's account, as in Geoffrey's \"Historia\", Merlin is begotten by an incubus demon on a virgin as an intended Antichrist. This plot is thwarted when the expectant mother informs her confessor, Blase, of her predicament; they immediately baptize the boy at birth, thus freeing him from the power of Satan and his intended destiny. The demonic legacy invests Merlin with a preternatural knowledge of the past and present, which is supplemented by God, who gives him a prophetic knowledge of the future.\n\nThe story of \"Merlin\" is related to Robert de Boron's two other poems that also feature Merlin as an integral character. First recast into prose c. 1210, the three poems (\"Joseph\", \"Merlin\", and \"Perceval\") can also form the trilogy known as \"Le Roman du Graal\", which tells the story of the Arthurian myth as completely rewritten for the Holy Grail: brought from the Middle East to Britain by followers of Joseph of Arimathea, the Grail is eventually recovered by Arthur's knight Percival as foretold in one of the prophecies in \"Merlin\".\n\n\"Merlin\" begins with the scene of a council of demons plotting to create the future Merlin as their agent on Earth to undo the work of Christ, but their plan is foiled and the mother names the child Merlin after her father. It continues with the story of the usurper king Vortiger (Vortigern) and his tower, featuring the seven-year-old Merlin with amazing prophetic powers. Following Vortiger's death, which Merlin also predicted, he assists the new king Pendragon and his brother Uter (Uther Pendragon, soon himself the king as Uterpendragon after the death of the original Pendragon at Salisbury) in their bloody war against Saxon invaders, later erecting Stonehenge as burial place for the fallen Britons and eventually inspiring the creation of the Round Table.\n\nThis is followed by the account of Uter's war with the Duke of Tintagel (here unnamed, Gorlois in general Arthurian tradition) for the latter's wife Ygerne (Igraine), during which Merlin's magic enables Uter to sleep with Ygerne and conceive Arthur, destined to become the Emperor of Rome. After Uter kills his rival and forcibly marries Ygerne, the newborn Arthur is given into the foster care of Antor (Ector), while Ygerne's daughters from the previous marriage are wed to King Lot and King Ventres (Nentres), and her illegitimate daughter Morgan is sent away to a nunnery and becomes known as Morgan le Fay (the first account of Morgan being Igraine's daughter and learning magic in a convent).\n\nThe poem seems to have ended with the later \"sword in the stone\" story, in which Arthur proves he is to become Britain's high king by a divine destiny. This has been the first instance of this motif to appear in Arthurian literature; it has become iconic after being repeated almost exact in Sir Thomas Malory's popular \"Le Morte d'Arthur\". \n\nThe poem was rewritten in prose and extended with a lengthy sequel to become the early-13th-century romance \"Estoire de Merlin\" (\"History of Merlin\"), also known as the Vulgate \"Merlin\" or Prose \"Merlin\", by authors unknown (highly possibly a single author, perhaps Robert himself). \"Estoire de Merlin\" constitutes one of the five volumes of the Vulgate Cycle / Lancelot-Grail as a probably late addition to it. The later Post-Vulgate Cycle also begins with material drawn from the poem.\n\nThe first of the two sequels to \"Merlin\" are known as the Vulgate \"Suite du Merlin\", a 'historical' sequel about the various wars of Arthur and the role of Merlin in them, also focusing on Gawain as the third main character. The second is the later \"Suite du Merlin\" (or a \"Merlin Continuation\"), also known as the \"Suite-Huth\" or \"Huth Merlin\"; a 'romantic' sequel. \n\nToday, the \"Suite du Merlin\" is best known as the primary source of Malory for the first four books of \"Le Morte d'Arthur\"; the previous Vulgate \"Suite\" also served as a minor source for Malory's Roman War episode (Book II). Prior English translations and adaptations have included Henry Lovelich's poem \"Merlin\", the romance \"Of Arthour and of Merlin\" (also known as just \"Arthour and Merlin\"), and the poem Stanzaic \"Morte Arthur\".\n\nThe following is the mid-15th-century English translation, with modern conventions for punctuation and capitalization, of the poem's prose version (also reworked into the romance \"Arthour and Merlin\"), sans the sequels:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8934845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8934845", "title": "Rijksmuseum Research Library", "text": "Rijksmuseum Research Library\n\nThe Rijksmuseum Research Library is the largest public art history research library in the Netherlands. The library is part of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. The online web catalogue contains about 300,000 monographs, 3,400 periodicals and 90,000 art sales catalogues. About 50,000 art sales catalogues published before 1989 are not yet entered in the online catalogue.\n\nAfter the renovation which started in 2004, the library transformed into a classical reading room, with information about the collections of the museum. An extensive collection of reference books and journals is available in the reading room.\n\nFrom April 14, 2013 the library is housed in the main Rijksmuseum building, Museumstraat 1, Amsterdam. Library daily opening hours 10 AM until 5 PM, closed on Sundays and on public holidays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17160070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17160070", "title": "Schmidt Hammer Lassen", "text": "Schmidt Hammer Lassen\n\nSchmidt Hammer Lassen Architects is an international architectural firm founded by a group of Danish architects in 1986 in Aarhus, Denmark. It currently has three offices in Aarhus, Copenhagen, and Shanghai.\n\nThe practice has a track record as designers of high-profile cultural buildings; art galleries, educational complexes and libraries. Projects include the Amazon Court office building in Prague, the City of Westminster College in London, the University of Aberdeen Sir Duncan Rice Library in Scotland and a number of construction projects and masterplans in China, with a total of approximately one and a half million square metres currently under development.\n\nSchmidt Hammer Lassen Architects was established in 1986 by Morten Schmidt, Bjarne Hammer and John F. Lassen.\n\nThe current group of partners includes Morten Schmidt, Bjarne Hammer, John F. Lassen, Kim Holst Jensen, Kristian Lars Ahlmark, Chris Hardie and Rong Lu. Day-to-day management of the practice is the responsibility of CEO Bente Damgaard.\n\nThe practice had its major breakthrough with the Katuaq Culture Centre in Nuuk, Greenland, completed in 1997. The project in Nuuk was followed by first prize in the international competition for the extension of the Danish Royal Library on the harborfront in Copenhagen. Completed in 1999, the library extension, also known as the Black Diamond, has become one of the practice’s most known buildings.\n\nAnother major project is the ARoS Art Museum in Aarhus, Denmark, which was completed in 2004. In May 2011 the art work \"Your rainbow panorama\", by Olafur Eliasson, was officially unveiled on the roof top of the museum.\n\nIn 2010 Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects won the competition to design the first permanent premises for the International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague, the Netherlands. The ICC is the first permanent, treaty-based, international criminal court established to help end impunity for the perpetrators of the most serious crimes of concern to the international community. It was founded in 2002 and has grown to the present-day size of 122 member countries. The building is designed to convey hope, trust and faith in justice.\n\nIn 2011 Schmidt Hammer Lassen established an office in Shanghai, to serve their increasing client base in Asia. Current projects in progress include two new sustainable campus projects for China Mobile, a new office and culture development next to the Chinese Pavilion on the site of the 2010 Shanghai Expo, a new 1800 seat musical Theatre that forms part of a new cultural development called Dream Center and a private Art Museum on the banks of the Huang Pu River. In nearby Ningbo the office is overseeing the Headquarters for Ningbo Daily Newspaper Corporation, a 125,000m2 cultural home for the Ningbo Trade Union, and the new Central Library for Ningbo East New Town, all due for completion in 2017.\n\nThe common denominator underlying the practice’s work is a democratic approach to an architecture focused around people, material, space and light. \n\nSchmidt Hammer Lassen Architects' work also include furniture and product designs, both as an integral part of large-scale architectural projects, such as the Black Diamond and ARoS, and as independent designs. Begun with the intention of raising the overall quality of architectural projects, Schmidt Hammer Lassen design is an independent department working on architecture-related designs and independent products with international manufacturers.\n\nThe current product range includes light fixtures for Philips Lighting, Lampas and Focus, indoor furniture Piiroinen and DJOB Montana, outdoor street furniture for Veksoe. Designs include the Flakes chair, the Focus Lighting, Idea Water Fixtures and the Swan Neck. The design department also creates unique pieces such as the sculptural receptions desk at Danfoss.\n\nThe firm also creates interior designs, such as the Bodil Binner Jewellery shop.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2920595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2920595", "title": "Serial (publishing)", "text": "Serial (publishing)\n\nIn publishing and library and information science, the term serial is applied to materials \"in any medium issued under the same title in a succession of discrete parts, usually numbered (or dated) and appearing at regular or irregular intervals with no predetermined conclusion.\"\n\nIn contrast to serials in general, a periodical has been defined as \"A serial publication with its own distinctive title, containing a mix of articles ... by more than one contributor, issued ... at regular stated intervals of less than a year, without prior decision as to when the final issue will appear.\" \nThus a periodical does not admit irregularly spaced publication times. This includes magazines and journals, but not proceedings; it also does not include newspapers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31884330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31884330", "title": "Soledad Reyes", "text": "Soledad Reyes\n\nSoledad Sarmiento Reyes (born 5 March 1946) is a distinguished and recognized Philippine literature scholar, literary and art critic, author, anthologist, consultant, professor, instructor, editor, annotator, researcher, and essayist in the Philippines. Specializing in the field of popular culture and the arts in the Philippines, Reyes is a professor teaching interdisciplinary studies at the University of the Philippines and the Ateneo de Manila University. She is an accomplished author of books and anthologies.\n\"sa nobela mababalatuba ang mga pangyayati sa buhay ng isang kagawad sa union\n\nIn 1966, Reyes received her Bachelor of Arts degree from Maryknoll College (now known as Miriam College. In 1977, she received her M.A. degree from the University of the Philippines Diliman. She obtained another master's degree, this time from the Ateneo de Manila University. She completed her Ph.D. in Philippine Studies at the University of the Philippines Diliman in 1976. In 1981, Reyes obtained her Masters in Arts degree in the field of Sociology of Literature from University of Essex in England.\n\nApart from teaching and acting as a consultant for Philippine and international universities, Reyes acted as the Chair of the Board of Judges for the Carlos Palanca and Cultural Center of the Philippines awards. As an exchange professor at the Peking University in China in 1977, Reyes focused on the preparation of modules regarding Philippine literature and popular culture. In 1987, Reyes lectured about Philippine literature, culture, and history at the Xiamen University in China. From 1987 to 1995, she was a board member of the Writers' Union of the Philippines (\"Unyon ng mga Manunulat ng Pilipinas\", UMPIL). During the Peking University-Ateneo de Manila University Exchange Program in 1992, Reyes was assigned as the delegate of the Ateneo de Manila University. Beginning 2001, Reyes served as the editor of the Humanities section of the \"Loyola Schools Review\". She was a member of the PEN-International. Reyes is the editor and annotator of the \"100 Nobelang Tagalog Project\" (100 Tagalog Novels Project) of Filipiniana.net, a digital library based in the Philippines.\n\nReyes authored works such as the \"Nobelang Tagalog, 1905-1975: Tradisyon at Modernismo\" (\"Tagalog Novel, 1905-1975: Tradition and Modernism\", 1982), \"The Romance Mode in Philippine Popular Literature and Other Essays\" (1991), \"Kritisismo: Mga Teorya at Antolohiya Para sa Epektibong Pagtuturo ng Panitikan\" (\"Criticism, Theories and Anthologies for the Effective Teaching of Literature\", 1992) and \"Pagbasa ng Panitikan at Kulturang Popular: Piling Sanaysay, 1976-1999\" (\"Reading Literature and Popular Culture, Selected Essay, 1976-1999). Among the anthologies Reyes edited were \"Katha\" (\"Creation\", 1992), \"Ang Silid na Mahiwaga: Kalipunan ng Kuwento't Tula ng mga Babaeng Manunulat\" (\"The Mysterious Room: Compilation of Stories and Poems by Female Writers\", 1994), and \"ALIW! Essays on Popular Culture\" (2000).\n\nIn her 2009 essay, \"From Darna to Zsazsa Zaturnnah: Desire and Fantasy and Other Way\", Reyes compared two Filipino superheroines existing in contemporary Philippine popular culture and literature, namely Darna and Zsazsa Zaturnnah. According to Reyes, Darna was the modern-day superheroine rooted and molded in Philippine folklore and tradition, while ZsaZsa Zaturnnah was \"unarguably a postmodern text that could have emerged only in the twenty-first century, a period of awesome advances in science and technology, and/or frightening borderless wars.\" Reyes's use of the phrase \"postmodern hero\" or \"postmodern text\" to describe \"ZsaZsa Zaturnnah\" the superheroine and graphic novel was further explained by Emilou Lindsay Mata Mendoza and Irene Villarin Gonzaga in their \"Visual Literacy and Popular Culture in the Philippine Literature Classroom: Teaching Filipino Literature through the Graphic Novel\", as a comparison between \"Darna\", the female superhero, and \"ZsaZsa Zaturnnah\", the effeminate superhero. Darna was the traditional mold of a Filipino superheroine (gender-wise, a true \"female\" superhero) while ZsaZsa Zaturnnah was an \"outright subversion\" of the conventional form of that superheroine. Because ZsaZsa Zaturnnah is, in reality, a homosexual male or \"gay man\" named \"Ada\" (from \"Adrian\") who works as a beautician (i.e. cosmetologist, hair stylist, manicurist, and pedicurist), but is able to transform himself into \"a voluptuous, red-haired Darna-like [real] woman who possesses super powers\" whenever he swallows a magical stone and shouts the word \"Zaturnnah\". In short, ZsaZsa Zaturnnah is \"in reality\" a man who \"literally\" experiences a sex/gender change whenever he becomes the superheroine.\n\nThe awards Reyes obtained include recognitions for her \"From Darna to Zsazsa Zaturnnah: Desire and Fantasy and Other Way\" and \"A Dark Tinge to the World: Selected Essays 1987-2005\". In 2009, Reyes was conferred the rank of Professor Emeritus (together with two other Loyola Schools faculty members of the Ateneo de Manila University, namely Jose A. Marasigan and Mari-Jo P. Ruiz) for her exceptional service and distinguished academic record. Reyes's \"Nobelang Tagalog 1905-1975: Tradisyon at Modernismo\", an anthology tracing the history of Tagalog-language novels has been considered a landmark in Philippine literature, and was granted a Philippine National Book Awards in 1982 by the Manila Critics Circle.\n"}
{"id": "47611218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47611218", "title": "Sonic Dreams Collection", "text": "Sonic Dreams Collection\n\nSonic Dreams Collection is a 2015 parody art game by Arcane Kids for Microsoft Windows and OS X. It is an unofficial game based on Sega's \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" franchise that compiles four minigames. The minigames are presented as unfinished \"Sonic\" games and include the character creator \"Make My Sonic\"; the massively multiplayer online role-playing game \"Eggman Origin\"; the interactive movie \"Sonic Movie Maker\"; and the dating sim \"My Roommate Sonic\". They are described in-game as having been developed by a nonexistent Sega studio for the Dreamcast in the late 1990s. \"Sonic Dreams Collection\" as a whole lampoons the modern \"Sonic\" fandom, which is known for its peculiarities.\n\nThe game originated from concepts several individuals made during a Sonic-themed Valentine's Day event on the game-sharing website Glitch City. It was released as freeware on August 10, 2015, accompanied by a satirical press release claiming the contents were discovered in a Dreamcast software development kit Arcane Kids purchased on eBay in 2013. \"Sonic Dreams Collection\" quickly caught the attention of many video game journalists, who were intrigued by its absurd nature and content. They characterized the game as scary and bizarre, but considered it a work people should be interested in playing and noted its commentary on the series' fandom. \"Geek.com\" went on to name \"Sonic Dreams Collection\" the best game of 2015.\n\nIn \"Sonic Dreams Collection\", the player selects one of four single-player parody minigames based on the Sega game franchise \"Sonic the Hedgehog\". Though unofficial, the minigames are presented as real, unfinished \"Sonic\" games for the Dreamcast developed by MJSTUDIO, a nonexistent Sega development studio, in the late 1990s. They are listed in the order they are said to have been developed in, with a fictional development history provided.\n\n\n\"Sonic Dreams Collection\" was developed by Arcane Kids, an independent game developer known for releasing joke video games like \"\" (2013) and \"Pokémon Millennial Edition\" (2014). According to designer Ben Esposito, the development team treated the game as a work of art. They conceived and designed it to celebrate and satirize the \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" series' modern fandom, which is known for its peculiarities. The title references the names of \"Sonic\" compilations such as \"Sonic Mega Collection\" (2002) and \"Sonic Gems Collection\" (2005).\n\nThe minigames in \"Sonic Dreams Collection\" were developed separately during the game-sharing website Glitch City's \"Sonic is My Boyfriend\" Valentine's Day event; \"Sonic Movie Maker\", for example, was created by former Electronic Arts employee Arjun Prakash. Afterward, Prakash and two Arcane Kids members decided to merge the games they made (\"Sonic Movie Maker\", \"Make My Sonic\", and \"My Roommate Sonic\") to form \"Sonic Dreams Collection\". Development lasted for another three months, progressing through weekly sessions on Glitch City with the help of other contributors. Despite his significant contributions, Prakash did not receive much credit for his involvement. Arcane Kids later issued an apology.\n\n\"Sonic Dreams Collection\" was released on August 10, 2015 as freeware for Microsoft Windows and OS X computers on the website \"hedgehog.exposed\". The site contained a press release in which Arcane Kids claimed to have discovered the game's contents in a Dreamcast software development kit they purchased on eBay in 2013 and posted them online as a protest against Sega's apparent attempts to keep their existence a secret. The press release does disclaim that \"Sonic Dreams Collection\" is a work of parody, discounting any affiliation with Sega. To download the game, visitors have to type in the password \"grandpa\".\n\nIn the days following its release, \"Sonic Dreams Collection\" received a considerable amount of media attention for its absurd content and intention to lampoon the series' fandom. A day after release, \"VG247\" called it a \"piece of gaming history.\" \"Kill Screen\" declared it 2015's 13th best game and \"Geek.com\" named it the year's top game. \"Kill Screen\" wrote that although inappropriate, \"Sonic Dreams Collection\" provided a thoughtful homage to the series' fandom; \"Geek.com\" found it took what was good about \"Bubsy 3D: Bubsy Visits the James Turrell Retrospective\" and \"expands on it in glorious ways.\" Esposito has said some \"Sonic\" fans were offended by the game because they felt it was ridiculing them.\n\nSummarizations of the game ranged from a \"horror show\" (\"VG247\") to \"surprisingly polished\" (\"Destructoid\"). \"The Daily Dot\" questioned why the game even existed and wrote it took the \"Sonic\" fandom's weirdness to a new level, and \"Polygon\"s authors expressed concern they were not allowed to write about its contents. Upon learning about it, \"Eurogamer\"s writer said he thought it was \"an innocent enough NeoGAF post\" that turned into \"something much more sinister.\" \"Eurogamer\" and \"Kotaku\" were lost for words in describing \"Sonic Dreams Collection\"s content, with \"Kotaku\" describing the whole experience as haunting. \"VG247\" did not describe the game in detail, believing readers needed to play it themselves to understand. They also disagreed with \"The Daily Dot\"s comment about the peculiarities of the fandom, saying \"Sonic Dreams Collection\" \"isn’t even scraping the surface of the places those people go.\" In addition to mocking the fandom, \"Engadget\" found the game served as a comment of the state of the \"Sonic\" franchise and its sullied reputation.\n\nJournalists characterized \"Sonic Dreams Collection\"s minigames as unsettling and bizarre; \"Destructoid\" wrote they ranged from \"creepy sexual fan service and \"Sonic\" community parody to something truly nightmare inducing.\" Of its games, writers were most intrigued by \"Sonic Movie Maker\". \"PC Gamer\" called it the highlight of the game, while \"Kotaku\", \"Polygon\", and \"Destructoid\" were left in shock from playing it. \"Polygon\"—which produced walkthroughs of all four minigames—described \"Make My Sonic\" as random, \"Eggman Origin\" as scary, \"Sonic Movie Maker\" as horrifying, and \"My Roommate Sonic\" as \"tak[ing] things to the next level\". \"Engadget\" wrote players would finish \"Sonic Dreams Collection\" within minutes but that they would likely come back, finding it \"uncanny at recreating both the vibe of crude fan art and Sega's turn-of-the-century \"zeitgeist\", that sense that the Dreamcast would usher in a brave new era for the blue hedgehog and his friends.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "24814482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24814482", "title": "The Crystal Bucket", "text": "The Crystal Bucket\n\nThe Crystal Bucket is the second selection of Clive James's television criticism for \"The Observer\", for which the British Press Awards named him 'Critic of the Year' in 1981: \"His contribution to the art and enjoyment of TV criticism over the past ten years has been immense. His work is deeply perceptive, often outrageously funny and always compulsively readable.\"\n\nFirst published the same year, the volume covers 1976–79; its title is taken from Walter Raleigh's \"The Passionate Man's Pilgrimage\". It is dedicated to the poet Peter Porter. The compilation ends not with a review but with a tribute to James's friend Joyce Grenfell who had died at the end of November 1979: \"Joyce Grenfell's death gave pause for thought to all who knew her. Her faith was profound. So was her humour, which was so devoid of malice that some people called her sentimental. She wasn't. She was just greatly good.\"\n\nWriting in \"The Listener\", Gavin Ewart expressed the view that James, \"didn't get where he is today just by being funny. He is humane, liberal and compassionate... What he writes is always pertinent and always witty. We owe him a deep debt of gratitude.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "6030280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6030280", "title": "The Gleaners", "text": "The Gleaners\n\nThe Gleaners (\"Des glaneuses\") is an oil painting by Jean-François Millet completed in 1857.\n\nIt depicts three peasant women gleaning a field of stray stalks of wheat after the harvest. The painting is famous for featuring in a sympathetic way what were then the lowest ranks of rural society; this was received poorly by the French upper classes.\n\nMillet's \"The Gleaners\" was preceded by a vertical painting of the image in 1854 and an etching in 1855. Millet unveiled \"The Gleaners\" at the Salon in 1857. It immediately drew negative criticism from the middle and upper classes, who viewed the topic with suspicion: one art critic, speaking for other Parisians, perceived in it an alarming intimation of \"the scaffolds of 1793.\" Having recently come out of the French Revolution of 1848, these prosperous classes saw the painting as glorifying the lower-class worker. To them, it was a reminder that French society was built upon the labor of the working masses, and landowners linked this working class with the growing movement of Socialism. The depiction of the working class in \"The Gleaners\" made the upper classes feel uneasy about their status. The masses of workers greatly outnumbered the members of the upper class. This disparity in numbers meant that if the lower class was to revolt, the upper class would be overturned. With the French Revolution still fresh on the minds of the upper classes, this painting was not perceived well at all.\n\nMillet's \"The Gleaners\" was also not perceived well due to its large size, 33 inches by 44 inches, or 84 by 112 centimetres. This is huge for a painting depicting labor. Normally this size of a canvas was reserved for religious or mythological style paintings. Millet's work did not depict anything religiously affiliated, nor was there any reference to any mythological beliefs. The painting illustrated a realistic view of poverty and the working class. One critic commented that \"his three gleaners have gigantic pretensions, they pose as the Three Fates of Poverty...their ugliness and their grossness unrelieved.\" While the act of gleaning was not a new topic—representations of Ruth had existed in art—this new work was a statement on rural poverty and not Biblical piety: there is no touch of the Biblical sense of community and compassion in the contrasting embodiments of grinding poverty in the foreground and the rich harvest in the sunlit distance beyond. The implicit irony was unsettling. After the Salon, Millet, short on money, sold his piece for 3,000 francs—below his asking price of 4,000—after haggling with an Englishman named Binder who would not budge for his meagre counter-offer; Millet tried to keep the miserable price a secret. While \"The Gleaners\" garnered little but notoriety during his life, after his death in 1875, public appreciation of his work steadily broadened. In 1889, the painting, then owned by banker Ferdinand Bischoffsheim, sold for 300,000 francs at auction. The buyer remained anonymous, but rumours were that the painting was coveted by an American buyer. It was announced less than a week later that Champagne powerhouse Jeanne-Alexandrine Louise Pommery had acquired the piece, which silenced gossip on her supposed financial issues after leaving her grapes on the vines weeks longer than her competitors.\n\nAt Madame Pommery's death in 1891, and following the conditions of her will, the painting was donated to the Louvre. It now resides in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.\n\n\"The Gleaners\" is one of Millet's best known works. Its imagery of bending peasant women gleaning was paraphrased frequently in works by younger artists such as Pissarro, Renoir, Seurat, and van Gogh. Art historian Robert Rosenblum says Millet's painting introduced \"imposing new presences in the repertory of mid-century art, with endless progeny in city and country. Daumier's and Degas's laundresses, and even more so Caillebotte's floor-scrapers, are almost unthinkable without Millet's epic hymn to labor.\"\n\n\"The Gleaners\" provides evidence of Millet's role as a contemporary social critic. His brutal depiction of three hunched, female paupers segregated from the laborers and the abundant crop in the distance demonstrates his attention to, if not necessarily sympathy for, the plight of the poorest members of the community around Barbizon and its larger neighbor, Chailly, as the area experienced the growing pains of French modernization. Only about thirty-five miles from the French capital (whose population doubled between 1831 and 1851), the rich, broad plain bordering the forest of Fontainebleau was among the earliest with a rail link to Paris, readily lending itself to feeding the burgeoning city. Studies tracing the transformation of rural France in the nineteenth century note that little change in peasant life occurred beyond northern France and the Paris basin until the last quarter of the century. Millet's representation of class strife on a large-scale farm was thus uniquely modern in the 1850s.\n\nThe painting inspired the name of the Gleaner Manufacturing Company.\nThe painting inspired, and is discussed in, the film by Agnes Varda, \"The Gleaners and I\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32622", "title": "Video art", "text": "Video art\n\nVideo art is an art form which relies on using video technology as a visual and audio medium. Video art emerged during the late 1960s as new consumer video technology such as video tape recorders became available outside corporate broadcasting. Video art can take many forms: recordings that are broadcast; installations viewed in galleries or museums; works streamed online, distributed as video tapes, or DVDs; and performances which may incorporate one or more television sets, video monitors, and projections, displaying live or recorded images and sounds.\n\nVideo art is named for the original analog video tape, which was the most commonly used recording technology in much of the form history into the 1990s. With the advent of digital recording equipment, many artists began to explore digital technology as a new way of expression.\n\nOne of the key differences between video art and theatrical cinema is that video art does not necessarily rely on many of the conventions that define theatrical cinema. Video art may not employ the use of actors, may contain no dialogue, may have no discernible narrative or plot, or adhere to any of the other conventions that generally define motion pictures as entertainment. This distinction also distinguishes video art from cinema's subcategories such as avant garde cinema, short films, or experimental film.\n\nNam June Paik, a Korean-American artist who studied in Germany, is widely regarded as a pioneer in video art. In March 1963 Nam June Paik showed at the Galerie Parnass in Wuppertal the \"Exposition of Music – Electronic Television\". In May 1963 Wolf Vostell showed the installation \"6 TV Dé-coll/age\" at the Smolin Gallery in New York and created the video \"Sun in your head\" in Cologne. Originally \"Sun in your head\" was made on 16mm film and transferred 1967 to videotape.\n\nVideo art is often said to have begun when Paik used his new Sony Portapak to shoot footage of Pope Paul VI's procession through New York City in the autumn of 1965 Later that same day, across town in a Greenwich Village cafe, Paik played the tapes and video art was born.\n\nPrior to the introduction of consumer video equipment, moving image production was only available non-commercially via 8mm film and 16mm film. After the Portapak's introduction and its subsequent update every few years, many artists began exploring the new technology.\n\nMany of the early prominent video artists were those involved with concurrent movements in conceptual art, performance, and experimental film. These include Americans Vito Acconci, Valie Export, John Baldessari, Peter Campus, Doris Totten Chase, Maureen Connor, Norman Cowie, Dimitri Devyatkin, Frank Gillette, Dan Graham, Gary Hill, Joan Jonas, Bruce Nauman, Nam June Paik, Bill Viola, Shigeko Kubota, Martha Rosler, William Wegman, and many others. There were also those such as Steina and Woody Vasulka who were interested in the formal qualities of video and employed video synthesizers to create abstract works. Kate Craig, Vera Frenkel and Michael Snow were important to the development of video art in Canada.\n\nMuch video art in the medium's heyday experimented formally with the limitations of the video format. For example, American artist Peter Campus' \"Double Vision\" combined the video signals from two Sony Portapaks through an electronic mixer, resulting in a distorted and radically dissonant image. Another representative piece, Joan Jonas' \"Vertical Roll\", involved recording previously-recorded material of Jonas dancing while playing the videos back on a television, resulting in a layered and complex representation of mediation.\nMuch video art in America was produced out of New York City, with The Kitchen, founded in 1972 by Steina and Woody Vasulka (and assisted by video director Dimitri Devyatkin and Shridhar Bapat), serving as a nexus for many young artists. An early multi-channel video art work (using several monitors or screens) was \"Wipe Cycle\" by Ira Schneider and Frank Gillette. \"Wipe Cycle\" was first exhibited at the Howard Wise Gallery in New York in 1969 as part of an exhibition titled \"TV as a Creative Medium\". An installation of nine television screens, \"Wipe Cycle\" combined live images of gallery visitors, found footage from commercial television, and shots from pre-recorded tapes. The material was alternated from one monitor to the next in an elaborate choreography.\nOn the West coast, the San Jose State television studios in 1970, Willoughby Sharp began the \"Videoviews\" series of videotaped dialogues with artists. The \"Videoviews\" series consists of Sharps’ dialogues with Bruce Nauman (1970), Joseph Beuys (1972), Vito Acconci (1973), Chris Burden (1973), Lowell Darling (1974), and Dennis Oppenheim (1974). Also in 1970, Sharp curated \"Body Works\", an exhibition of video works by Vito Acconci, Terry Fox, Richard Serra, Keith Sonnier, Dennis Oppenheim and William Wegman which was presented at Tom Marioni's Museum of Conceptual Art, San Francisco, California.\n\nIn Europe, Valie Export's groundbreaking video piece, \"Facing a Family\" (1971) was one of the first instances of television intervention and broadcasting video art. The video, originally broadcast on the Austrian television program \"Kontakte\" February 2, 1971,[11] shows a bourgeois Austrian family watching TV while eating dinner, creating a mirroring effect for many members of the audience who were doing the same thing. Export believed the television could complicate the relationship between subject, spectator, and television. In the United Kingdom David Hall's \"TV Interruptions\" (1971) were transmitted intentionally unannounced and uncredited on Scottish TV, the first artist interventions on British television.\n\nAs the prices of editing software decreased, the access the general public had to utilize these technologies increased. Video editing software became so readily available that it changed the way digital media artists and video artists interacted with the mediums. Different themes emerged and were explored in the artists work, such as interactivity and nonlinearity. Criticisms of the editing software focused on the freedom that was created for the artists through the technology, but not for the audience. Some artists combined physical and digital techniques to allow their audience to physically explore the digital work. An example of this is Jeffrey Shaw's \"Legible City\" (1988–91). In this piece the \"audience\" rides a stationary bicycle through a virtual images of Manhattan, Amsterdam, and Karlsrule. The images change depending on the direction of the bike handles, and the speed of the pedaler. This created a unique virtual experience for every participant.\n\nAs technology and editing techniques have evolved since the emergence of video as an art form, artists have been able to experiment more with video art without using any of their own content. Marco Brambilla's \"Civilization\" (2008) shows this technique. Brambilla attempts to make a video version of a collage, or a \"video mural\" by combining various clips from movies, and editing them to portray heaven and hell.\n\nThere are artists today who have changed the way video art is perceived and viewed. In 2003, Kalup Linzy created Conversations Wit De Churen II: All My Churen, a soap opera satire that has been credited as creating the video and performance sub-genre 'Theatre of the Self, Performing who you are'. Although Linzy's work is genre defying his work has been a major contribution to the medium. Ryan Trecartin, and experimental young video-artist, uses color, editing techniques and bizarre acting to portray what the New Yorker calls \"a cultural watershed\". Trecartin played with the portrayal of identity and ended up producicng characters who \"can be many people at the same time\". When asked about his characters, Trecartin explained that he visualized that each person's identity was made up of \"areas\" and that they could all be very different from each other and be expressed at different times. Ryan Trecartin is an innovative artist who has been said to have \"changed the way we engage with the world and with one another\" through video art. A series of videos made by Trecartin titled I-BE-AREA displayed this, one example is I-BE-AREA (Pasta and Wendy M-PEGgy), which was made public in 2008, which portrays a character named Wendy who behaves erratically. When asked about his characters, Trecartin explained that he visualized that each person's identity was made up of \"areas\" and that they could all be very different from each other and be expressed at different times. Ryan Trecartin is an innovative artist who has been said to have \"changed the way we engage with the world and with one another\" through video art. In 2008, New York Times Holland Cotter writes, 'A big difference between his work and Mr. Trecartin’s is in the degree of digital engagement. Mr. Trecartin goes wild with editing bells and whistles; Mr. Linzy does not. The plainness and occasional clunkiness of his video technique is one reason the Braswell serial ends up touching in a way that Mr. Trecartin’s buzzed-up narratives rarely are. For all their raunchy hilarity Mr. Linzy’s characters are more than cartoons; “All My Churen” is a family-values story that has a lot to do with life.\n\nVideo art as a medium can also be combined with other forms of artistic expression such as Performance art. This combination can also be refereed to as \"media and performance art\" when artists \"break the mold of video and film and broaden the boundaries of art\". With increased ability for artists to obtain video cameras, performance art started being documented and shared across large amounts of audiences. Artists such as Marina Abramovic and Ulay experimented with video taping their performances in the 1970s and the 1980s. In a piece titled “Rest energy” (1980) both Ulay and Marina suspended their weight so that they pulled back a bow and arrow aimed at her heart, Ulay held the arrow, and Marina the bow. The piece was 4:10 which Marina described as being “a performance about complete and total trust”.\n\nOther artists who combined Video art with Performance art used the camera as the audience. Kate Gilmore experimented with the positioning of the camera. In her video “Anything” (2006) she films her performance piece as she is constantly trying the reach the camera which is staring down at her. As the 13-minute video goes on, she continues to tie together pieces of furniture while constantly attempting to reach the camera. Gilmore added an element of struggle to her art which is sometimes self-imposed, in her video “My love is an anchor” (2004) she lets her foot dry in cement before attempting to break free on camera. Gilmore has said to have mimicked expression styles from the 1960s and 1970s with inspirations like Marina Abramovic as she adds extremism and struggle to her work.\n\nSome artists experimented with space when combining Video art and Performance art. Ragnar Kjartannson, an Icelandic artist, filmed an entire music video with 9 different artists, including himself, being filmed in different rooms. All the artists could hear each other through a pair of headphones so that they could play the song together, the piece was titled \"The visitors\" (2012).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16692635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16692635", "title": "William Morris Endeavor", "text": "William Morris Endeavor\n\nWilliam Morris Endeavor Entertainment LLC (WME or WME-IMG), also known as William Morris Endeavor, is an American talent agency with offices in Beverly Hills, California, United States. The company was founded in April 2009, after the merger of the William Morris Agency and the Endeavor Agency. WME represents artists across all media platforms, specifically movies, television, music, theatre, digital and publishing. It also represents the NFL and NHL. WME also owns the Ultimate Fighting Championship and Miss Universe. The company is run by Co-CEOs Ari Emanuel and Patrick Whitesell.\n\nAs the entertainment industry evolved, so did WMA, which soon expanded into television, film, literature and music representation.\n\nThe Endeavor Talent Agency launched in 1995, nearly 100 years after WMA, grew rapidly to include clients from every facet of the entertainment industry. By 2009, Endeavor was one of the fastest-growing Hollywood talent agencies, with \"The New York Times\" singling out its reputation for \"quick thinking, ferocity and barely bridled ambition.\"\n\nOn April 27, 2009, WMA and the Endeavor Talent Agency announced that they were forming William Morris Endeavor, or WME. Endeavor executives Ari Emanuel and Patrick Whitesell were widely seen as the architects of the merger and quickly became the Co-CEOs of WME.\n\nIn 2011, Emanuel was quoted in a \"Financial Times\" profile about the company, saying \"We built a culture where people are rewarded for taking risks.\" Emanuel and Whitesell have implemented several leadership strategies to boost the productivity of their agents, most notably, the \"Farmhouse\" training program.\n\nFollowing the merger, WME moved its headquarters into the offices of Endeavor. The company now takes up several floors at 9601 Wilshire Boulevard in the heart of Beverly Hills. Additionally, WME has offices in New York, London, Miami, and Nashville.\n\nSince the merger, WME has grown to include several subsidiary companies and expanded divisions. \"Fortune\" named co-CEOs Ari Emanuel and Patrick Whitesell to their 2010 \"Businessperson of the Year\" list, acknowledging their corporate growth strategies. Emanuel had previously been recognized as a 21st-century \"super agent\" by both \"The Wall Street Journal\" and \"The Guardian\", as well as an \"Advertising Age\" \"Influencer.\"\n\nShortly after the merger, WME helped launch the investment group Raine, which aligned the company with properties like Vice Media and Zumba Fitness. In 2010, WME partnered with RED Interactive, a digital advertising agency. Two years later, they formed an alliance with the social media management firm TheAudience, partnering with digital entrepreneur Sean Parker and executing social campaigns for properties like the Seth MacFarlane motion picture \"Ted\" and the Coachella Music Festival. 2013 brought a strategic partnership between WME and creative music agency Jingle Punks, which creates, publishes and licenses music. WME is also an investor in the e-commerce platform [OpenSky], which was named one of America's \"Most Promising Companies\" by \"Forbes\". In 2013, Whitesell and Emanuel were profiled in \"Fast Company\", highlighting the company's digital growth.\n\nIn July 2013, WME acquired a minority stake in the creative agency Droga5. The partnership combines the companies’ advertising and entertainment resources. Founded by David Droga, Droga5 was named \"Adweek’s\" 2012 Agency of the Year and oversees accounts for Coca-Cola, Motorola and Spotify.\n\nDescribing the partnership, \"The New York Times\" wrote, “As consumers increasingly ignore traditional advertising and are bombarded with a constant stream of content, both online and offline, advertisers have been forced to find more compelling ways to get their attention. WME could help provide the answer given its substantial reach in television, publishing, music, film and theater.\"\n\nOn December 18, 2013, WME and Silver Lake announced the acquisition of IMG for $2.4 billion. WME’s Ari Emanuel and Patrick Whitesell will serve as co-CEOs.\n\nOn January 21, 2015, it was announced that WME had acquired Global eSports Management (GEM), an international agency representing various esports and professional video game players and personalities.\n\nOn September 14, 2015, WME acquired from Donald Trump the Miss Universe Organization, which produces the Miss Universe, Miss USA and Miss Teen USA beauty pageants and related content. The organization sells television rights to the pageants in other countries. Financial details were not disclosed. On September 23 it was announced that WME/IMG would be partnering with Turner Broadcasting to create a televised esports league, the ELeague.\n\nOn July 9, 2016, Zuffa, LLC, the parent company of Ultimate Fighting Championship, was sold to a group led by WME-IMG, its owner Silver Lake Partners, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, and MSD Capital, for $4.2 billion, the largest-ever acquisition in the sports industry.\n\nOn August 22, 2016, WME acquired the literary agency Rabineau Wachter Sanford & Gillett (RWSG); its co-founders, Sylvie Rabineau and Jill Holwager Gillett, head a division of WME involved in the coordination of screen adaptations of literature.\n\nOn May 2, 2012, WME and Silver Lake, a technology-focused private equity firm based in Silicon Valley, signed an agreement for Silver Lake to acquire a 31% minority stake in the agency. A new executive committee, consisting of Co-CEOs Ari Emanuel and Patrick Whitesell and Silver Lake Partners Managing Director Egon Durban, leads the company's growth strategy and investment activities. The Silver Lake deal drew the attention of several leading financial publications, including \"Forbes\", \"Financial Times\", \"The New York Times\", and \"The Wall Street Journal\".\nSilver Lake increased their stake in WME to 51% following the acquisition of IMG Worldwide.\n\nAnitta\n\nIn 2009, the partners of William Morris Endeavor formed the WME Foundation, which promotes arts and education to disadvantaged children. Clients whose charities have benefitted from the Foundation's services include Charlize Theron, Hank Azaria, Usher, and Alicia Keys. In 2011, the company created Camp Summer Eagle and Camp Summer Lion, which provide donations and activities for schoolchildren in Compton, California and New York City.\n\nOn November 15, 2017, actor Terry Crews stated on \"Good Morning America\" that Adam Venit, head of WME's motion picture department, had squeezed Crews' genitals with his hand at an industry party in February 2016. WME responded they had suspended Venit following an internal investigation, on November 27, 2017 it was announced Adam Venit would return to work after a month's unpaid leave. On December 4, 2017 lawyers acting on behalf of Terry Crews filed suit against WME and Adam Venit stating “It is now time to hold Venit accountable for his sexual predatory behavior and to hold WME accountable for its conduct in condoning, ratifying, and encouraging Venit’s sexual predatory behavior,”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53348917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53348917", "title": "Women in comedy", "text": "Women in comedy\n\nWomen in comedy refers to females who participate in comedic works as well as their experience within the social environment. While primarily dominated by men throughout history, women have been represented in the field of comedy since the mid 1700s. Comedy, or creative works with the intention of humor, is thought to have originated in ancient Greek theatre in 425 BCE. Some of the first figures to enter the field, however, were faced with resistance and discrimination. A sense of humor in women was previously thought to have meant the ability to laugh at a man's joke, rather than tell the joke herself. When women did finally enter comedy (in its various forms), it was seen as niche, thus making bookings hard to come by.\n\nEarly acts were often based in the standard roles of women as a housewife and mother. Comedy was tailored to what men would find to be both funny and non-threatening. As women gained slow acceptance to their presence in comedy, they were able to expand the topics that they covered. Since then, women have made significant gains in the field, having found fame through stand-up, television, movies, and writing. Women such as Amy Schumer, Phyllis Diller, Wanda Sykes, Gina Barreca and many others have contributed to the world of comedy, spanning both time and medium.\n\nAs comedic license has grown, comedy has become a tool within the scope of feminism. By reclaiming a previously male-exclusive art form, female comedians are able to use patriarchal structure against itself. Today, feminist comedy draws attention to female issues such as menstruation, rape, gender inequality, beauty norms, and machismo. As a readily acceptable and understandable medium of communication, comedy lends itself to the feminist movement, allowing women's issues to be more wide-spread in general society.\n\nStand-up comedy is a form of comedy in which performers act in front of a live audience, creating an interactive dependency. Jokes range from short one-liners to longer monologues. The comedic form requires a takeover the stage, in order for the comedian's material to \"kill.\" For women, the direct contact with the audience puts their womanhood on display. Many female comedians choose to wear loose-fitting clothing to take their femininity out of the spotlight.\n\nAmerican late night television (\"The Tonight Show\", \"The Daily Show\" etc...) has been dominated by white men for almost its entire existence. With the exception of \"Full Frontal\" with Samantha Bee, no woman has had a late night show on a major network of her own. The platform allows a variety of comedic (monologues and shorts) and political (interviews and exposés) opportunities.\n\nFilm in general, as well as comedic film, continues to show the gender imbalance of other forms of comedy. In 2014, a study found that there were 2.24 male characters for every one female character. Of the movies surveyed, only 30.9% of the speaking characters were female. Additionally, one of the major storylines in the film industry (the romantic comedy), consistently follows traditional female roles, relegating women to simply searching for a male partner.\n\nThe gender imbalance between men and women can be found all over, even on Wikipedia. The page: list of comedians show a much higher number of males than females.\n\nIn the United States, there is a large gender gap between men and women in comedy with regards to both pay and number. In 2014, all ten of the top ten paid comedians were male, bringing in a total of $173 million. In 2016, one female entered the list: Amy Schumer, at number two.\n\nA study in 2017 found a large gender imbalance in UK comedic panel shows, with only 31% of the appearances. However, the same study also found marked improvement since 1989, when the statistic was 3%. Additionally, the UK industry website Chortle lists 269 female comedian as compared to 1,279 male comedians.\n\nImbalance can also be seen at the level of the comedy club. For example, the prestigious New York comedy club Carolines featured 20% female performers to 80% male in 2014. Within the writers room, gender imbalance persists. Women made up only 10 percent of writers working on the top 250 domestic grossing films of 2010 and 15 percent of writers and 18 percent of creators in prime-time television during the 2010–2011 season.\n\nIn South Korea, of 70 comedic variety shows, 13 had all male hosts and guests, and 23 with all male hosts, meaning that more than half of these shows lack female hosts. Only two shows had all females hosts and guests. Shows without hosts often try to model marriages by pairing up male and female celebrities. While this does achieve some sense of gender balance, it uses very traditional roles.\n\nThe early female figures in stand up, such as Phyllis Diller, were able to enter the mainstream through their willingness to self-deprecate and declare themselves ugly. Other early female comediennes, such as Mae West and Helen Kane, used sex appeal to attract male audiences. In other words, they were able to enter, but on the terms of male comedians. More modern female comedians cite a need to tailor their comedy to what men would find to be funny, with change in this mentality only coming very recently.\n\nStand up comedy, in particular, is described as a masculine art form. The words that are used to describe success are often violent, such as \"killed\" or \"annihilated.\" The performer must take charge of the stage, claiming it as their own via the phallic symbol of the microphone. The structure of joke is often centered on an attack on another party. The aggression that such an art form necessitates is encouraged in males but discouraged in females.\n\nIn many societies around the world, a woman's role has affected her flexibility in comedy. In countries that historically view women as inferior to men, comedy is seen as a masculine discipline. The common perception that women aren't funny pervades all aspects of comedy, including stand-up, television, and movies. The comedy establishment, influenced by patriarchal society, has relegated women to the \"side of tears and loss.\" Systematic sexism can be found at the level of audience members, bookers, agents, and male comics. As a powerful social tool, comedy brings women outside of the traditional role that has been defined as theirs.\n\nWomen have experience everything from heckling audience members calling them gendered terms like bitches or sluts, to being invited to fake comedic festivals (so the organizer could have sex with the female comedian), to being introduced in roasts as the girl that \"slept with one of the judges.\"\n\nHumor has been used a tool of feminism both for its ability to point out patriarchy and the structures it creates as well as identify the common female experience. A distinction must be made between female humor and feminist humor. Female humor is self-deprecatory, turning inwards to the performer herself. Feminist humor, by contrast, looks outwards at the societal structures that demean women. It is aggressive and pointed, using comedic language formerly reserved for men only as a tool of liberation. Feminist humor is to be an agent of change for women by drawing attention to their lowered position in society.\n\nBing argues that for feminist humor to be most effective at its goal of change, it should be inclusive, rather than divisive. Divisive humor, or jokes that focus on male structures or male-bashing, do not advance feminism, but rather continue to marginalize females. Inclusive humor that riffs off of the shared experience of women, can be subversive without the negative effects of divisive humor. Bing continues to say that when humor falls into this inclusive comedy it contributes to feminism by first, contradicting the age old stereotype that women cannot be funny, and second, by undermining the status quo.\n\nHumor itself can be used to make strong structural changes in a society. Many times humor has been used to subvert hierarchical structures. For example, the Guerrilla Girls used humor to point out the patriarchal, unchanging nature of the Tony awards, which give the majority of their prizes to men. It also functions to establish an in-group (those making and understanding the joke) and an out-group (those on the receiving end). Through this process, humor can create solidarity within a group, but can also make another feel excluded. For women, this can serve to strengthen them as a community.\n\nOutside of the United States, women have been having similar experiences in their attempts to enter field of comedy, colored by their own cultural influences. One such women is Farhana Muna, a Bangladeshi Muslim comic. Her material is focused on Bangladeshi life and culture, from parties to relatives commenting on weight loss. According to Muna, she often feels constrained by what is deemed appropriate or not for a Bangladeshi Muslim women. She must watch what she says and wears. Muna reemphasized the sentiment that there is a wider range of comedy acceptable for men. She has also faced criticism for her actions, including her choice to not wear the hijab, with people calling her a bad Muslim. However, she continues her comedic work due to the community of women that she has met through it. Muna sees comedy as a collective platform of expression, a way to share her experiences in a relatable way.\n\nWomen have been on the rise in India's comedy as recently as 2016. In a country that has deeply entrenched patriarchal values, these female comedians face great amounts of cultural animosity. Despite this discrimination women such as Aditi Mittal and Neeti Palta have found success in an industry that did not readily accept them.\n\nIn South Korea, female comedians do not encounter many comedic opportunities. Only two television programs are completely hosted by females, with the other major television opportunity being couples shows. South Korean TV shows only offer gender balance when women are in gendered roles. Producers see men as more advantageous hires as the shows' audiences are majority women. Additionally, there was a worry that audiences would react badly to strong women in television. As the woman's movement grows in South Korea, so too do the opportunities for women. Rather than featuring beautiful women as prizes to be won by males contestants, new shows such as \"Sisters' Slam Dunk\" (which premiered in 2016) feature women working together to solve problems.\n\nOne of the most prominent early figures in American female comedy, Phyllis Diller made her comedic debut at the Purple Onion Comedy Club in the 1950s. Her stand-up routines focused on the problems of the suburban housewife, a previous unaddressed area by male comics. By opening acknowledging her lack of physical attractiveness and by incorporating self-deprecation into her routines, Diller was able to enter comedy in a time when funny and attractive women were seen as threatening. However, by confining her comedy to her inability to fulfill her traditional role, she reinforced female stereotypes rather than dismissing them.\n\nJoan Rivers (active from 1959–2014) was one of the first female comedians to utilize the \"talk/conversational\" method, one that was suited to television talk shows. Unlike Phyllis Diller, who was quite unlike her comedic personality, the comedy of Joan Rivers more closely reflected her personality. She often drew on her own personal experiences as a self-proclaimed Jewish princess. Unlike her predecessors, Rivers did not downplay her attractiveness, but rather incorporated it into her riffs on life as a single woman. Still, her comedy was focused on the traditional problems of a women (trying to find a boyfriend and husband, being a good wife etc).\n\nJane Curtin was a part of the inaugural class of Not Ready for Prime Time Players on \"Saturday Night Live\" in 1975. On SNL, she was the anchor for Weekend Update and started in many well known skits including \"Coneheads\". On Weekend Update, she served as the liberal counterpart to Dan Aykroyd’s conservative perspective. In 2008, when asked about the environment at Saturday Night Live, Curtin said that female writers faced an extremely difficult battle, especially when cast member like John Belushi were actively working against them. While fundamentally believing that women are not capable of humor, he also would sabotage pieces written by women. Despite this atmosphere, Jane Curtin had a very successful career at SNL and went on to work on sitcoms, Broadway, and various movies.\n\nFigures such as Tina Fey have paved the way in the modern era for large-scale growth in female comedy. Her public appointment as the first female head writer of Saturday Night Live placed her in a position to serve as a feminist comedy icon. Many of her sketches became iconic, particularly her satirical portrayal of Vice Presidential Candidate Sarah Palin. Her comedic writing (Mean Girls, 30 Rock, Bossypants, Baby Mama, Date Night etc...), in addition to achieving great public notice, was well received by critics.\n\nMiranda Hart is a female comedian from the UK. She is most well-known for her television series \"Miranda.\" Her awkward and clumsy character in the show is a embodiment of all the society neuroses that women face in daily life. Such a style of comedy makes her into an everywoman. Hart herself sees a divide in comedy, with some using comedy as a tool to increase their coolness (others) and some using comedy as a tool for clowning around (her). By staying within the clowning realm of comedy, she achieved a cult following.\n\nAmy Schumer is a female comedian from the United States, and was the highest paid entertainer in her field in 2016. She has been one of the most successful female comedians of all time, appealing to a wide audience of both men and women. Schumer is most well-known for her movie \"Trainwreck\" (2015) and her Comedy Central show, \"Inside Amy Schumer.\" In 2015, she was named one of Time Magazine's most influential people. Her comedy is often focused on gender politics, touching on the issues that women face throughout their lives. One of her most famous skits centers around women not being able to accept compliments, resulting in escalating forms of self-deprecation - culminating in mass suicide, rather than accepting the compliment.\n\nGina Barreca is a female comedian from the United States, known around the world for her books. These include Babes in Boyland, I Used to be Snow White but I Drifted, If you Lean In will Men Just Look Down Your Blouse and many others. Dr. Gina Barreca has appeared on \"20/20\", \"The Today Show\", \"CNN\", the \"BBC\", \"NPR\" and \"Oprah\" to discuss gender, power, politics, and humor.\n\n"}
{"id": "52094931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52094931", "title": "You Can't Get Lost in Cape Town", "text": "You Can't Get Lost in Cape Town\n\nYou Can't Get Lost in Cape Town was the first book by Zoë Wicomb. Published in 1987 (by Virago in London), it was a collection of inter-related short stories, set during the Apartheid era and partly autobiographical, the central character being a young Coloured woman growing up in South Africa, speaking English in an Afrikaans-speaking community in Namaqualand, attending the University of the Western Cape, leaving for England, and authoring a collection of short stories. This work has been compared to V. S. Naipaul’s \"The Enigma of Arrival\". As Rob Gaylard notes, \"Central to Wicomb's collection of stories is the question of identity, and intimately bound up with this are the polarities of home and exile. Significantly, the stories were written while Wicomb was in exile in England.\"\n\n\"You Can’t Get Lost in Cape Town\" was also published in the US in 1987 by Pantheon Books, and in 2000 by The Feminist Press at CUNY. The book was translated into Italian by Maria Teresa Carbone as \"Cenere Sulla Mia Manica\" (Rome: Edizioni Lavoro, 1993), with an Introduction by Dorothy Driver, who suggests that Wicomb's stories are without precedent, that no one previously had written from the pariticular perspective a woman brought up \"Coloured\" in South Africa.\n\nGaylard sees the stories collectively as a kind of \"bildungsroman\", noting that \"...while Wicomb's work has obvious affinities with that of Bessie Head and Arthur Nortjé (whose poetry supplies two of the epigraphs for her collection), her stories may also gain by being viewed in the wider context of postcolonial writing. Comparison with the work of recent women writers from the Caribbean may be particularly rewarding: writers like Jamaica Kincaid and Michelle Cliff share a preoccuption with the problems of a mixed or hybridized identity; they often write about home from the perspective of exile and often appropriate first-person narrative forms in order to do so.\"\n\nAccording to the \"Wall Street Journal\" review, \"Wicomb deserves a wide American audience, on a part with Nadine Gordimer and J. M. Coetzee\", while the \"Seattle Times\" stated: \"Wicomb is a gifted writer, and her compressed narratives work like brilliant splinters in the mind, suggesting a rich rhythm and shape.\"\n\nDescribing the book as \"superb\", Bharati Mukherjee wrote in her \"New York Times\" review: \"Ms. Wicomb's subject isn't – as American readers might expect - simple apartheid. It is the desperate search of the \"coloured\" for identity in a harshly hierarchical society. In this \"acceptance\" of apartheid and the desire to see beyond it, Ms. Wicomb follows Faulkner and certainly echoes her black countryman Njabulo Ndebele, who (in his recent collection, \"Fools and Other Stories\") wrote: 'Our literature ought to seek to move away from an easy preoccupation with demonstrating the obvious existence of oppression. It exists. The task is to explore how and why people can survive under such harsh conditions.' ... Ms. Wicomb's prose is vigorous, textured, lyrical... This is a sophisticated storyteller who combines the open-endedness of contemporary fiction with the force of autobiography and the simplicity of family stories.\"\n\n\n"}
