{"id": "37754117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37754117", "title": "Associated Whistleblowing Press", "text": "Associated Whistleblowing Press\n\nThe Associated Whistleblowing Press (AWP) is a not-for-profit information agency based in Brussels, Belgium, dedicated to the defense of human rights by promoting transparency, freedom of information and speech, whistleblowing and investigative journalism, conceived as a global network made up of cooperative local platforms and actors. According to its website, the initiative aims to work in a decentralized network structure, with local platforms that deal with local information, contexts and actors in a \"from the roots upward model\". The stories produced will then be published on the project's multilanguage newsroom under a Creative Commons license.\nThe team consists of collaborators spread all around the world, led by two editors, Pedro Noel and Santiago Carrion.\n\nIn a strategy to amplify the social effect of dennouncing on crimes and corruption, the Associated Whistleblowing Press is building whistleblowing platforms oriented to different communities as well as precise issues or problematic subjects, establishing networks with local and international media and civil society organizations.\nThe platforms created to precise contexts are intended to achieve specific goals in transparency, publishing restricted or censored material of political, scientific, ethical, diplomatic or historical significance. Rumor, opinion, stories and other kinds of first hand accounts or material that is publicly available elsewhere will not be accepted. Materials which violate individual privacy will not be accepted unless they speak up on violations and abuses that affect the public sphere.\n\nOn September 30, 2012, the AWP launched Ljost, its first local whistleblowing platform in Reykjavík, Iceland. Internet pioneer Guðmundur Ragnar Guðmundsson, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, a member of parliament of Althing, the Icelandic parliament, representing the Pirate Party Iceland and investigative journalist Jon Bjarki have all collaborated with the creation of the platform.\nLjost.is a website which allows Icelandic citizens to send information proving abuse or corruption in a safe and anonymous way. The platform is a network of journalists, researchers and media agencies dedicated to analyzing and publishing leaked content to make governments and corporations accountable for their actions by bringing them into light.\nAccording to the Associated Whistleblowing Press, the main objective moving Ljost platform is to restore the media as an active player for truth and justice in Iceland, believing transparency as the best way to increase social accountability of local governments and corporations for their actions. AWP members believe that for journalists, researchers and media activists, this is a powerful way to lead people to take action against repression, abuse of power, censorship, social inequality and corporate greed in Icelandic society.\nOn December 30, 2013, Ljost published the Glitnir Files, a leak that brings into public account detailed information identifying Glitnir bank’s biggest borrowers and stakeholders as well as relevant track of some its shares movements during 2007/2008 and evidence that a handful of individuals and companies with strong connections to Glitnir's central shareholders borrowed large amounts of cash from the bank, often with insufficient underlying collateral.\n\nOn April 23, 2014, the AWP launched Filtrala, its first local whistleblowing platform in Spain.\nThe name of the project literally means “leak it”. It was launched in collaboration with four Spanish media organizations – La Marea, eldiario.es, Diagonal, Mongolia –, two Catalan media organizations – Crític, La Directa – along with the Comisión Anticorrupcíon de la Red Ciudadana Partido X.\nIt was created to serve Spanish society in a way that anyone can send safe and anonymous information that denounces crimes, corruption, abuse and infraction from individuals, corporations or institutions. It is part of the international network of AWP and it is settled in Belgium for its recognition in law ensurement of press freedom, informants protection and journalism protection.\nThe main objective is to amplify revealed information in a mediatic, civil and legal level. Through the Platform the Spanish society has a citizen mechanism to fight against corruption and abuse with the aim of a social regeneration based mainly in social justice.\n\nAWP uses GlobaLeaks software to manage on-line submissions of sensitive materials and obligates its users to use the Tor anonymity system through a 'tor hidden service only' platform. (Furthermore, AWP is a member of torservers.net, a network of nonprofits which specializes in the general establishment of Tor exit nodes via workshops and donations.) Each node is in charge of managing a virtual dropbox, analyzing any information received, transforming it into news stories and coordinating within a local and international network of media and organizations before publication.\n\nThe analysis of all submissions consists of two main steps. First of all a thorough investigation will be done into what are normally very large files in variable formats (such as emails or internal memos) in order to locate relevant information. This information will later be put into context, explaining actors, motives and consequences in relation to the organizations or people in question.\nWhen publishing the results as news, the AWP will work closely with as many trustworthy media partners and activists as they can in order to reach the largest audience possible. The dissemination process will also be amplified thanks to the Internet and social media.\n\n"}
{"id": "31673830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31673830", "title": "Australian Constitutional Convention 1998", "text": "Australian Constitutional Convention 1998\n\nThe Australian Constitutional Convention 1998 was a Constitutional Convention which gathered at Old Parliament House, Canberra from 2 to 3 February 1998. It was called by the Howard Government to discuss whether Australia should become a republic. The convention concluded with \"in principle support\" for an Australian republic (with a dissenting minority voting for a continuation of the Australian constitutional monarchy) and proposed a model involving appointment of the head of state by Parliament. The model was put to a referendum in November 1999 and rejected by the Australian electorate.\n\nAustralia remains a constitutional monarchy under the Australian Constitution adopted in 1901, with the duties of the head of state performed by a Governor-General selected by the Australian Prime Minister. Australian republicanism has persisted since colonial times, though for much of the 20th century, the monarchy remained popular. In the early 1990s, republicanism became a significant political issue. Australian Labor Party Prime Minister Paul Keating indicated a desire to instigate a republic in time for the Centenary of the Federation of Australia in 2001. The opposition Liberal-National Coalition, led by Alexander Downer, though less supportive of the republic plan, promised to convene a Constitutional Convention to discuss the issue. Under John Howard, the Coalition won the 1996 Federal Election and set the Convention date for February 1998.\n\nThe convention comprised 152 delegates from all of the states and territories of Australia – half elected by voluntary postal vote and half appointed by the federal government. Of the appointees, 40 were representatives of the commonwealth, state and territory parliaments. Various pro-republican and pro-monarchy delegates were elected and various parliamentary and non-parliamentary delegates were appointed including state and territory leaders. The convention was chaired by the Right Honourable Ian Sinclair , of the National Party of Australia with the Honourable Barry Jones of the Australian Labor Party as deputy chairman.\n\nSitting members of the Liberal-National Party Coalition were permitted a free vote on the republican issue, while the Australian Labor Party (ALP) adopted the republican position as a matter of party policy. Senior Liberals split on the issue, with the Prime Minister, John Howard, supporting the status quo and the Treasurer, Peter Costello, supporting a republic. Other representatives of the government at the convention included the Attorney General, Daryl Williams, the Minister for the Environment, Robert Hill, and the Minister for Social Security, Jocelyn Newman, as well as the Deputy Prime Minister, Tim Fischer, and other Members of Parliament. The Leader of the Opposition, Kim Beazley, was accompanied by colleagues Gareth Evans, John Faulkner and others, while the Australian Democrats sent Senator Natasha Stott Despoja.\n\nThe states all sent three representatives including their premiers and opposition leaders, while the territories were represented by their chief ministers. Premiers Bob Carr (New South Wales), Jeff Kennett (Victoria), Rob Borbidge (Queensland), Richard Court (Western Australia), John Olsen (South Australia) and Tony Rundle (Tasmania) attended, along with chief ministers Kate Carnell (Australian Capital Territory) and Shane Stone (Northern Territory).\n\nA number of members of the Australian Republican Movement (ARM) attended the convention. ARM was established in July 1991 and comprised distinguished Australian intellectuals, politicians and former politicians, business people, students and other citizens who supported an Australian republic. A number of Australian Labor Party supporters and members were attracted to the organisation, though its leader from 1993 to 2000 was future Liberal Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull. Prominent delegates at the Convention included media personalities Steve Vizard and Eddie McGuire, businesswoman Janet Holmes à Court and businessman Lindsay Fox.\n\nAustralians for Constitutional Monarchy was established in 1992, after Prime Minister Keating announced his republican agenda. The organisation was called together to counter the republican movement by Justice Michael Kirby and like minded constitutional monarchists including Lloyd Waddy , Aboriginal statesman Neville Bonner, Chancellor of the University of Sydney Dame Leonie Kramer, Helen Sham-Ho (the first Chinese-born member of an Australian Parliament), Doug Sutherland (former Labor Lord Mayor of Sydney) and others.\n\nLater, former Labor leader and Governor General Bill Hayden joined the organisation and membership grew to more than registered supporters nationwide. Justice Kirby argued that a constitutional monarchy is \"a system of government for those committed to effective checks on rulers and to liberal democracy\". Kirby resigned from the organisation upon being appointed a judge of the High Court of Australia and did not participate in the Convention. ACM recruited Tony Abbott as its first full-time executive director, although his membership also ceased following pre-selection as a Liberal candidate for election to the Federal Parliament in March 1996. Kerry Jones was then appointed executive director of ACM in his place. She and Lloyd Waddy led ACM through the 1998 Constitutional Convention and the 1999 referendum. Don Chipp, founder of the Australian Democrats, was one of ACM's delegates at the Convention.\n\nSmaller republican groupings included \"A Just Republic\", the \"Real Republic\" group, the Clem Jones \"Queensland Constitutional Republic Team\" and the Ted Mack group. Other monarchist groups included the \"Constitutional Monarchists\" group, the Australian Monarchist League and \"Safeguard the People\". Other minor Australian political parties with elected representatives included the Shooters Party, the Christian Democrats (Fred Nile Group). A number of individuals were elected under other grouping names, including lawyer Jason Yat-Sen Li (\"A Multi-Cultural Voice\") and Misha Schubert (\"Republic4U – The Youth Ticket\").\n\nSix Indigenous delegates participated in the Convention, including magistrate Pat O'Shane, who was vocal in support of a republic and monarchist Neville Bonner, Australia's first Aboriginal parliamentarian, who ended his contribution to the Convention with a Jagera Tribal Sorry Chant in sadness at the deception practised by republicans. The Republican Model, as well as a proposal for a new Constitutional Preamble which would have included the \"honouring\" of Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders.\n\nLady Florence Bjelke-Petersen and Glen Sheil represented the group named \"Constitutional Monarchists\", while prominent Returned and Services League spokesman Bruce Ruxton represented the monarchist \"Safeguard the People\" group and Brigadier Alf Garland represented the Australian Monarchist League. Ted Mack and Phil Cleary were prominent independent republicans.\n\nClergy from the major churches were appointed as delegates: the Catholic Church in Australia's George Pell and the Anglican Church of Australia' s Peter Hollingworth; while republican Tim Costello, a prominent Baptist minister was elected as a representative for Victoria from the \"Real Republic Group\".\n\nOther appointees included academics, such as historian Geoffrey Blainey and Sydney University chancellor Leonie Kramer; legal and constitutional experts such as law professor Greg Craven retired judge Richard McGarvie and public servant David Smith. Former Vice Regal office holders were also appointed, including former Governor of South Australia Dame Roma Mitchell and former Governor General Bill Hayden. Senior business appointees included Sir Arvi Parbo and Donald McGauchie. Journalist delegates included Mia Handshin and Miranda Devine.\n\nThe Convention debated the need for a change to the Constitution of Australia which would remove the monarchy from a role in Australian government and law. According to the final communiqué issued by the Convention, three questions were considered:\n\nDelegates advocated a range of positions from no-change to minimal change to radical change. According to the final communique:\n\n\"In principle\" agreement was reached by a majority of delegates for an Australian Republic (though a minority bloc of Monarchists dissented). Following a series of votes, a proposal for a \"Bipartisan Appointment of the President Model\" for an Australian republic was endorsed by a majority of delegates who voted for or against the motion (monarchists and some radical-change republicans abstained from the vote). According to hansard, the vote for the Bi-Partisan model was: \"for\" 73, \"against\" 57 with 22 abstentions.\n\nThe final communiqué recommended that Parliament establish a committee responsible for considering the nominations for the position of president and consult widely in the community and compile a shortlist for the Prime Minister. Taking into account the recommendations of the committee, the Prime Minister would then present a single nominee, seconded by the Opposition Leader to a joint sitting of the Australian Parliament which must gain a two-thirds majority in order to be endorsed. The president could be removed at any time by a notice in writing signed by the Prime Minister, however if the House of Representatives failed to ratify this dismissal, the president would be eligible for re-appointment. The powers of the president were to be those of the existing office of Governor General of Australia.\n\nThe Convention recommended that state parliaments also examine the issue of the republic, as each state has separate and individual constitutional links to the monarchy. Certain recommendations were made for a new Constitutional preamble which included introductory language along the lines of \"we the Australian people\", and referencing \"Almighty God\", custodianship and occupancy of Australia by Indigenous Australians; as well as affirmations of the law, cultural diversity, unique land and environment and democratic political system of Australia.\n\nThe new Australian republic was to retain the name Commonwealth of Australia.\n\nThe Convention recommended to the Prime Minister and Parliament of Australia that the model, and other related changes to the Constitution, supported by the convention, be put to the people in a constitutional referendum in 1999.\n\nThe minimalist McGarvie Model developed by former Governor of Victoria, Richard McGarvie, and originally submitted to the Republic Advisory Committee in 1993, was the second most popular model of the four voted upon. Republican delegates Clem Jones, Ted Mack, Pat O'Shane, Paul Tully and Paddy O'Brien held out for greater change to the Constitution than the more minimalist model ultimately proposed.\n\nIn his address to the opening session of the Convention, Liberal Prime Minister John Howard outlined his support for retaining the status quo on the basis that it has provided a long period of stability and said he believed that the \"separation of the ceremonial and executive functions of government\" and the presence of a neutral \"defender of constitutional integrity\" was an advantage in government and that no republican model would be as effective in providing such an outcome as the Australian monarchy:\n\nThe Deputy Prime Minister, Tim Fischer, of the National Party said that the Australian Constitution had delivered one of the \"oldest continuous federated democracies in the world\" and that changing it would be a complex operation:\n\nOpposition Leader Kim Beazley of the Australian Labor Party advocated \"minimalist\" change. He described transition to a republic as \"unfinished business\" for Australia and said that foreigners \"find it strange and anachronistic, as many Australians now clearly do, that our Head of State is not an Australian\". The ALP proposed appointment of a president by two-thirds majority of parliament. In his opening address, Beazley told the Convention:\n\nLiberal Treasurer Peter Costello advocated for a republic. He rejected any suggestion that Australia was not already an independent nation and said that, while the Australian Constitution works \"remarkably well\", it was the institution of monarchy that was the crux of his argument for change:\n\nPat O'Shane, a magistrate and indigenous woman expressed a desire for change based on what she perceived as historical injustice and present inadequacies within the Australian Constitution:\n\nIndigenous delegates were divided, however. Former Senator Neville Bonner made an impassioned defence of the constitutional monarchy, describing efforts to change it as \"senseless division\" and a distraction from the real problems facing Australia:\n\nKerry Jones, leader of Australians for Constitutional Monarchy defended the Australian Constitution, saying \"no republic model will ever offer the protection and safeguards that work so well in our current Constitution\". She said her task was to \"assess each republican model against the Constitution that has served us so well\":\n\nDelegates examined various models for a republic. Independent republican delegate Phil Cleary argued the case for direct-election of a president and questioned the motivations of \"conservative\" republicans:\n\nMalcolm Turnbull, leader of the Australian Republican Movement, cautioned against mixing the roles of President and Prime Minister in a direct election system, telling the Convention:\n\nThe Catholic Archbishop of Melbourne, George Pell, supported change, but noted \"Without support from most of the front benches of both sides of the parliament, it would be wasteful to go to a referendum.\" Towards the end of proceedings, he called on conservatives to support change:\n\nTwo proposals to amend the Australian Constitution were submitted to the Australian electorate in November 1999. If approved, the referendum would have established a republican system of government in Australia. The referendum held on 6 November 1999 failed to achieve the support of either a majority of voters or a majority of states. The national vote of the electors in favour of Australia becoming a republic was 45.13%, with 54.87% against. Australia remains a constitutional monarchy.\n\nA total of 152 delegates, from each state and territory and a wide diversity of backgrounds, gathered at Old Parliament House in Canberra. Seventy-six of the delegates were elected by a voluntary postal ballot. The other seventy-six were appointed by the federal government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11372711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11372711", "title": "B-Mobile", "text": "B-Mobile\n\nB-Mobile Communications Snd. Bhd. (stylized b•mobile) was a joint venture company between Telekom Brunei Berhad (TelBru) and QAF Comserve. Granted a 3G license in February 2005, b.mobile was Brunei’s first 3G mobile service provider, utilizing the established WCDMA technology. In June 2014, its assets and infrastructure were purchased by a new company, Progresif Cellular.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36667322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36667322", "title": "Cartel: The Coming Invasion of Mexico's Drug Wars", "text": "Cartel: The Coming Invasion of Mexico's Drug Wars\n\nCartel: The Coming Invasion of Mexico's Drug Wars is a non-fiction book about the Mexican Drug War written by Sylvia Longmire, an independent consultant, freelance writer, and former Air Force captain. In her book, Longmire gives an overview of Mexico's drug war and describes the impact it has on the United States' national security. Drawing from her experience as an intelligence analyst of drug trafficking and border security, the author details the holes of the current drug policy of both the United States and Mexico.\n\nThe book also covers the \"spillover effect\" of Mexico's drug violence in the United States, and how the narcotics distribution has grown on U.S. soil. Longmire's major contributions were describing the \"tactics, techniques and procedures\" of the Mexican drug trafficking organizations, particularly in kidnappings, where the author dedicates a whole chapter on how the cartels materialize them. She also contrasts the modus operandi of the Colombian drug gangs with Mexico's crime groups, and argues that the cartels in Mexico are more violent and erratic. In addition, she argues for the exploration of \"regulatory options for the production, sale and distribution of marijuana in the United States,\" and provides demand-side strategies to control marijuana use.\n\nIn an interview, the author clarified that the term \"invasion\" does not relate to a war incursion of the Mexican drug cartels in America, but rather to their \"corrupting influence on U.S. law enforcement, and a slow increase of spillover violence.\" The book, however, stresses that Mexico is not a failed state and that an effective cooperation with the United States is possible, just as long as they make it a top priority issue.\n\nAccording to InSight Crime, the book is \"an excellent introduction for someone new to the subject of Mexican drug trafficking.\" In addition, the agency stated that Longmire's book is a \"thoughtful text, which warns not of a literal invasion of cartel gunmen, but of the insidious spread of corruption over the border.\" The \"Kirkus Reviews\" stated that Longmire \"...makes a convincing case that within the United States, the violence stemming from illegal substances has caused more injuries and deaths than generally acknowledged by law-enforcement agencies.\" Nicholas Stein, producer of the series \"Border Wars\", recommended the Cartel, saying it is an \"easy-to-read, one-stop shopping overview of the myriad issues facing us from Mexico's cartels.\" David A. Marvelli, a Ph.D. candidate of Rutgers University and an intelligence analyst for the FBI, stated that the book \"presents an insightful introduction to a very complex topic of consequence for U.S. national security: the Mexican drug trade and its incipient violence and destabilization of Mexican governance.\"\n\nThe Small Wars Journal stated that Longmire is \"...one of the few authors, who successfully brings to light the spill over effect of criminal activities that are historically associated with border towns, and are now present in cities like Atlanta; one of many which is evolving into distribution hubs of illegal narcotics.\" Borderland Beat noted that Longmire's books focuses primarily on the \"...national security optics, [and that the Mexican cartels are] closer to terrorists, of whom she cites al-Qaeda and Colombia's FARC in the same breath.\" Nonetheless, the review said that he cannot buy the terrorist appellation because the cartels do not have an ideology behind what they do, since their goal is making money.\n\n"}
{"id": "48900977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48900977", "title": "Civil restraint order", "text": "Civil restraint order\n\nIn the law of England and Wales, a civil restraint order (CRO) is a court order intended to prevent vexatious litigation.\nCourts have the means of escalating the sanctions against a litigant who makes applications to the court that are \"totally without merit\":\n\nThere are three types of CRO: limited, extended and general, with different scopes of application:\n\n\nFurther applications totally without merit can lead to withdrawal of the right of appeal. Harassment of the court and court officials can lead to a penal prohibition notice, prohibiting the litigant from contacting or approaching the court without permission.\n\nHM Courts Service maintains a list of vexatious litigants.\n"}
{"id": "25690925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25690925", "title": "Classification of the Functions of Government", "text": "Classification of the Functions of Government\n\nClassification of the Functions of Government (COFOG) is a classification defined by the United Nations Statistics Division. These functions are designed to be general enough to apply to the government of different countries. The accounts of each country in the United Nations are presented under these categories. The value of this is that the accounts of different countries can be compared.\n\n"}
{"id": "14370487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14370487", "title": "Clean Water Protection Act", "text": "Clean Water Protection Act\n\nThe Clean Water Protection Act () was a bill introduced in the 111th United States Congress via the House of Representatives Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. It proposed to redefine \"fill material\" to not include mining \"waste\" under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.\n\nIt was introduced by Frank Pallone and Chris Shays in the 110th Congress, and almost identical bills had been introduced in previous years. As of July 2009, H.R.1310 had 154 co-sponsors. Environmental groups such as Appalachian Voices, Kentuckians for the Commonwealth and Sierra Club supported the legislation because of their stance against mountaintop removal mining. It would also have affected situations similar to the Kensington Mine operation near Juneau, Alaska where a mine was permitted to discharge mining waste into a small lake as \"fill.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1412862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1412862", "title": "Contingent fee", "text": "Contingent fee\n\nA contingent fee or contingency fee (in the United States) or conditional fee (in England and Wales) is any fee for services provided where the fee is payable only if there is a favourable result. Although such a fee may be used in many fields, it is particularly well associated with legal practice. In the law, it is defined as a \"fee charged for a lawyer's services only if the lawsuit is successful or is favorably settled out of court... Contingent fees are usually calculated as a percentage of the client's net recovery.\"\n\nIn the English legal system, it is generally referred to as a conditional fee agreement or, informally by the public and press, as \"no win no fee\". The usual form of this agreement is that the solicitor will take a law case on the understanding that if lost, no payment is made.\n\nHowever, if the case is won, the lawyer will be entitled to the normal fee based on hourly billing, plus a success fee. The success fee in England must be as a percentage no greater than 100% of the normal fee. This contrasts with the contingency fee in the US, which gives the successful attorney a percentage of the damages recovered by the attorney's client.\n\nContingent fees make it easier for the poor to pursue their civil rights since otherwise, to sue someone for a tort, one must first be wealthy enough to pursue such litigation in the first place. However, because of the high risk, few attorneys will take cases on a contingency basis unless they feel the case has good merit.\n\nAccording to a 2004 book by law professor Herbert Kritzer, contingent fees were allowed as of that year in the following countries: Australia, Brazil, Canada, the Dominican Republic, France, Greece, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States. They are also allowed in personal injury actions in Lithuania.\n\nA client is not charged attorney fees if he loses the case. If the client recovers damages from settlement or a favorable verdict, the attorney receives the fee from the recovery. The attorney's permitted fee varies depending on the country, and even local jurisdictions.\n\nIn the US, for example, the fee is generally based on the contractual agreement between the attorney and the party, but is also limited by local rules for \"reasonableness\". See e.g., Miss. Rule of Prof'l Conduct 1.5. In most jurisdictions, contingent fees are \"reasonable\" as high as 33% to 45% of recovery. Attorneys charging unreasonable fees may be subject to professional sanctions. The fee is calculated as a share of the eventual damage judgment or settlement won by the client. The percentage allowed is subject to the ethical rules of professional conduct, and in many circumstances, statutory limitations.\n\nIn the UK, on the other hand, the client is liable for the normal fee (based on hourly billing plus a profit element) plus a success (or bonus) fee (no more than 100%). Most lawyers charge a success fee much less than this, 25-50%. In English law, fees are subject to compliance with the statutory scheme. \n\nA contingency fee arrangement provides access to the courts for those who cannot afford to pay the attorneys fees and costs of civil litigation. Contingency fees also provide a powerful motivation to the attorney to work diligently on the client's case. In other types of litigation where clients pay the attorney by the hour for their time, it makes little economic difference to the attorney whether the client has a successful outcome to the litigation. Finally, because lawyers assume the financial risk of litigation, the number of speculative or unmeritorious cases may be reduced.\n\nContingency fees do not guarantee civil justice or equal access to civil courts. Attorneys who practice in the area of civil litigation typically accept cases that present both clear liability and a means of collecting a judgment or settlement, such as through a defendant's insurance coverage. Not all cases are immediately transparent. Some require extensive investigation before the chances of success can be properly assessed. Such cases might be turned away because even the initial assessment of their strength is costly and risky.\n\nContingency fees may also increase the tendency for corrupt or unethical practices, such as in legal proceedings, due to the fact that payment is only made if a case is won.\n\nThis can also be referred to as \"before the event\" insurance (BTE), and is insurance that the client may already hold as part of household contents or car insurance, either free or for a small fee. Some credit cards also include BTE insurance and it can also be taken out as a separate insurance policy. BTE insurance may pay for the legal costs when making a claim for compensation, whether the client wins or loses.\n\nThe solicitor will be able to identify if a client holds this type of policy and complete the necessary claim form.\n\nA 2008 report from the Ministry Of Justice found that in 2007, 48% of those who took part had BTE Insurance incorporated into their car insurance, 35% had BTE Insurance as part of their Home insurance policy and a further 17% had the insurance as part of their Travel Insurance. This insurance covers any legal expenses in addition to costs for pursuing a personal injury claim and cost for legal expenses from the other side if the client's claim is unsuccessful.\n\nLegal Aid is financial assistance which is funded by the Government. It is not usually awarded in cases of personal injury unless under extreme circumstances. But through all the circumstances it is still available for Clinical Negligence cases.\n\nEven though it is possible, it is rare for individuals to fund their own personal injury claims by retaining a lawyer on an hourly basis. In some jurisdictions, if the client's claim is successful, the client will be able to recover attorney fees from the defendant. In jurisdictions that follow the American rule for attorney fees, even successful clients must normally bear the cost of their own legal fees.\n\nContingent fee agreements are legal in all provinces of Canada, but with some restrictions on what cases are eligible to be handled on a contingent fee basis. In some cases, an attorney may collect a percentage of recovery in case of a victory but must charge an hourly fee otherwise.\n\nIn English law, conditional fees had caused much controversy in the 19th century, especially in the Swynfen will case, as they were held to offend ancient prohibitions against champerty and maintenance. However, they were introduced by the Courts and Legal Services Act 1990 (section 58), but the relevant statutory instruments were not made until 1995. Initially, the success fee was not recoverable from the losing party, but on 1 April 2000, section 27 of the Access to Justice Act 1999 amended the Courts and Legal Services Act 1990 to allow recovery of success fees from the losing party.\n\nThe regulations that accompanied this change in the law (the Conditional Fee Agreements Regulations 2000) were far from clear, and the result was that a great deal of satellite litigation took place. On 1 November 2005, these regulations were revoked, and now it is much easier to enter into conditional fee agreements than before. The chances of having a case accepted on conditional fee are greatly increased if the case is investigated by a legally qualified professional.\n\nOn 29 March 2011, Justice Secretary Kenneth Clarke announced plans to reform contingent fee arrangements, as part of reforms to the justice system prompted by a review of civil litigation costs carried out by Lord Justice Jackson. The changes were prompted by large rises in litigation costs and the proliferation of ambulance chasing advertisements and claim farmers. The National Health Service has been forced to pay out hundreds of millions of pounds in recent years.\n\nThese reforms occurred in the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012. Under the new arrangements, claimants still will not pay upfront fees, nor have to cover their lawyers' costs if the case is lost. If they win then they will pay the \"success fee\", although this is capped at 25% of the awarded damages.\n\nThe position is different in Scotland, where it is lawful to agree that the lawyer gets paid only if the case is won (the \"speculative action\"). It is not lawful, however, to fix a percentage of the client's winnings as the amount of the fee. It has, however, been legal since 1990 for the lawyer and client to agree a percentage \"increase\" in the lawyer's fee in case of success in the action (Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1990 s. 36). This assumes, of course, that an initial fee was beforehand agreed by lawyer and client.\n\nMost jurisdictions in the United States prohibit working for a contingent fee in criminal cases or certain types of family law claims, as made clear in Rule 1.5(d) of the Model Rules of Professional Conduct of the American Bar Association. Some jurisdictions, however do allow contingent fees in criminal cases. In the United States, contingency fees are the standard in personal injury cases and are less common in other types of litigation.\n\nMost jurisdictions require contingent fees to be \"reasonable,\" resulting in a typical contingent fee of 33-45% of any eventual recovery.\n\nMany states impose additional restrictions on contingent attorney fees in medical malpractice cases. 16 states (California, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Utah, Wisconsin, and Wyoming) have regulated contingency fees for medical malpractice cases.\n\nSome states cap fees at a flat rate; for example, 33.33% of net judgment or recovery in Tennessee and Utah.\n\nOther states utilize a sliding scale fee structure. For example, Connecticut utilizes a sliding scale fee structure but that can be waived in complex cases with a cap of 33.33%. California permits contingency fees in the amount of 40% of the first $50,000 of recovered damages, 33.33% of the next $50,000, 25% of the next $500,000 and 15% of any recovery in excess of $500,000.\n\nFlorida establishes different fee limits depending on the stage of the case at the time damages are recovered. For example, it allows a higher limit if the case goes to trial and even more if the case is appealed.\n\nFour of the states that limit attorney fees (Illinois, Maine, New York, and Wisconsin) explicitly allow a court to authorize a larger fee. Wyoming explicitly allows the client and attorney to contract for a larger fee.\n\nInstead of a specific limit or a sliding scale, six states (Hawaii, Iowa, Maryland, Nebraska, New Hampshire, and Washington) require or authorize court approval of the reasonableness of attorney fees under various circumstances.\n\nContingent fees have been allowed in South Africa since 1997, as discussed by K.G. Druker in The law of contingency fees in South Africa.\n\nAny fees higher than the normal fees of the legal practitioner concerned may not exceed such normal fees by more than 100%. However, in claims sounding in money, the total of any such success fee payable by the client to the legal practitioner may not exceed 25% of the total amount awarded or any amount obtained by the client in consequence of the proceedings concerned, which may not, for the purposes of calculating such excess, include any costs.\n\nContingent fees or \"success fees\" () are a widespread practice in South Korea. Until 2015, they were used in both criminal and civil litigation. In some civil cases, courts have rejected fees exceeding 10% of the award as unjust enrichment of the attorney, requiring the attorney to refund the excess to the client.\n\nOn July 23, 2015, the Supreme Court of South Korea ruled that contingent fee agreements for criminal representation were void as against public policy, under Article 103 of the Civil Act. The judgment was unanimous, with four justices concurring separately. The decision provoked widespread outcry from criminal defense lawyers, particularly former judges and prosecutors who had been able to charge very high success fees due to clients' belief that their connections could help them win the case.\n\nOn November 4, 2008, the Supreme Court of Spain annulled a prohibition originated from the General Council of Spanish Bar that forbade the use of contingency fees, known in Spain as \"cuota litis\". The rationale of the annulment was that the prohibition did not respect the principles of free competition. From that year onward, lawyers can pursue legal claims based on that type of retribution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13274813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13274813", "title": "Edmonson v. Leesville Concrete Co.", "text": "Edmonson v. Leesville Concrete Co.\n\nEdmonson v. Leesville Concrete Company, 500 U.S. 614 (1991), was a United States Supreme Court case which held that peremptory challenges may not be used to exclude jurors on the basis of race in civil trials. \"Edmonson\" extended the court's similar decision in \"Batson v. Kentucky\" (1986), a criminal case. The Court applied the equal protection component of the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment, as determined in \"Bolling v. Sharpe\" (1954), in finding that such race-based challenges violated the Constitution.\n\nA black construction worker, Thaddeus Donald Edmonson, was injured during work on federal property. He sued Leesville Concrete Company for negligence leading to his injuries. During jury selection, Leesville used two of their three peremptory challenges on black jurors, leaving a panel of twelve with one African-American. Edmonson, citing \"Batson\", requested that the trial court require Leesville give a race-neutral reason for the peremptory challenges to black jurors, but the court refused. The jury found that Leesville was responsible for 20% of Edmonson's injury and awarded him $18,000. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed the decision, holding that parties become state actors during jury selection, and so \"Batson\" requires race-neutral selection in civil cases. When the Fifth Circuit reheard the case en banc, they affirmed the original District Court decision. Recognizing a circuit split, the Supreme Court granted certiorari.\n\nJustice Anthony Kennedy wrote the opinion for the majority. Justice Kennedy began with a long line of cases where the court held that racial discrimination was impermissible in jury selection before a \"criminal\" trial. He then pointed out that although the Court had never indicated such discrimination was permitted in a civil trial, either, it also holds that federal law restrains the actions of government, not private actors. To decide whether to apply federal law, Justice Kennedy applied a two-part test from \"Lugar v. Edmondson Oil Co.\" The first part of the test is whether the constitutional deprivation, in this case the right to a fair and impartial jury, resulted from a right rooted in state authority. Kennedy found, almost summarily, that peremptory challenges' intimate role in shaping a jury meant the case met the first part of the test. The second part of the test is whether the private party, Leesville and its counsel, was acting as a \"state actor\".\n\nIn determining whether the Leesville was acting as a state actor, Justice Kennedy considered three issues and relevant precedent. The first issue was whether the actor relies on governmental assistance, and Justice Kennedy found that the system of jury selection clearly existed within the sphere of judicial proceedings and would not be possible without the assistance of the judge and all other constituent elements of the institution. The second consideration was whether the actor is performing a traditional function of government. Justice Kennedy first found that the jury was clearly performing a traditional function of government by serving as the finder-of-fact in a civil trial. Second, he drew a parallel between jury selection and elections, indicating that constitutional constraints apply to all the machinery involved in choosing representatives and juries (such as when parties control primary elections). This is unlike any other aspect of civil litigation, none of which involve a government function like jury selection. The third consideration was whether the injury caused was aggravated in a unique way by the incidents of governmental authority. Justice Kennedy said racial discrimination inside the courtroom diminishes the integrity of the courts and \"compounds the racial insult\" of discrimination.\n\nJustice Kennedy then dealt with the question of whether litigants could raise violations of jurors' rights on their behalf. The relevant precedent in that consideration was \"Powers v. Ohio\", a similar case that dealt with race-based exclusion of jurors during jury selection in a criminal trial. In \"Powers\", the Court held that litigants generally cannot make a claim due to violations of others' rights, except where the litigant has suffered an injury the courts can resolve, has a close relation with the third party, and the third party is hindered in protecting his or her own interests. Justice Kennedy held that all three conditions were met in Edmonson's case, including the resolvable injury. The concrete resolvable injury arose, in Justice Kennedy's view, whenever racial discrimination took place within criminal or civil trials.\n\nThe Court did not make a holding regarding whether prima facie evidence of racial discrimination in Edmonson's case actually existed, and remanded the case to the trial court to determine that issue.\n\nThree justices dissented, arguing that there was no state action (which is required for any Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment violation) because the litigants are private parties. Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote the dissent, joined by Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justice Antonin Scalia. Justice O'Connor wrote that \"the Court's final argument is that the exercise of a peremptory challenge by a private litigant is state action because it takes place in a courtroom. [But] the actions of a lawyer in a courtroom do not become those of the government by virtue of their location. This is true even if those actions are based on race.\" \"Constitutional 'liability attaches only to those wrongdoers who carry a badge of authority of [the government] and represent it in some capacity.' \"Tarkanian\", 488 U.S., at 191 [double-internal quotation marks omitted].\" Therefore, although \"[r]acism is a terrible thing ... [t]he Government is not responsible for a peremptory challenge by a private litigant.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23599949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23599949", "title": "Effluent limitation", "text": "Effluent limitation\n\nAn effluent limitation is a United States Clean Water Act standard of performance reflecting a specified level of discharge reduction achievable by the best available technology or related standards for various sources of water pollution. These sources include all industries, businesses, municipal sewage treatment plants and storm sewer systems, and other facilities that discharge to surface waters. Effluent limitations are implemented in discharge permits issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies, through the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7829135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7829135", "title": "Four Minute Men", "text": "Four Minute Men\n\nThe Four Minute Men were a group of volunteers authorized by United States President Woodrow Wilson, to give four-minute speeches on topics given to them by The Committee on Public Information (CPI). In 1917-1918, around 7,555,190 speeches were given in 5,200 communities. The topics dealt with the American war effort in the First World War and were presented during the four minutes between reels changing in movie theaters across the country. Also, the speeches were made to be four minutes so that they could be given at town meetings, restaurants, and other places that had an audience. This is an instance of \"viral marketing\" before its time.\n\nOn April, 6th 1917 the US Congress declared war on Germany. President Wilson was determined to rouse the public.\n\nWilson established the first modern propaganda office, the Committee on Public Information (CPI), headed by George Creel. Creel set out to systematically reach every person in the United States multiple times with patriotic information about how the individual could contribute to the war effort. It also worked with the post office to censor seditious counter-propaganda. Creel set up divisions in his new agency to produce and distribute innumerable copies of pamphlets, newspaper releases, magazine advertisements, films, school campaigns, and the speeches of the Four Minute Men. CPI created colorful posters that appeared in every store window, catching the attention of the passersby for a few seconds. Movie theaters were widely attended, and the CPI trained thousands of volunteer speakers to make patriotic appeals during the four-minute breaks needed to change reels. They also spoke at churches, lodges, fraternal organizations, labor unions, and even logging camps. Speeches were mostly in English, but ethnic groups were reached in their own languages.\nCPI Director George Creel boasted that in 18 months his 75,000 volunteers delivered over 7.5 million four minute orations to over 300 million listeners, in a nation of 103 million people. The speakers attended training sessions through local universities, and were given pamphlets and speaking tips on a wide variety of topics, such as buying Liberty Bonds, registering for the draft, rationing food, recruiting unskilled workers for munitions jobs, and supporting Red Cross programs. Ethnic groups were reached in their own languages. \n\nWith many millions of German Americans in the United States, as well as Irish Americans and Scandinavian Americans and poor rural Southerners, with strong isolationist feelings, there was a strong need for a propaganda campaign to stir support for the war. This effort had many unique challenges to meet to address the existing political climate. Wilson needed to speak directly to the fragmented and spread out audience in the United States. He had to address the country's self-perception to generate support for the war. The Four-Minute Men provided an answer to these challenges.\n\nIn addition, the Four Minute Men urged citizens to purchase Liberty Bonds and Thrift Stamps.\n\nThe Four Minute Men idea became a useful tool in the propaganda campaign because it addressed a specific rhetorical situation. One of the challenges of the effort was the fragmented audience of the United States. Many different heritages were represented in the United States, and the president needed their support for the war. To address each groups specific needs, the director of the Four Minute Men, William McCormick Blair, delegated the duty of speaking to local men. Well known and respected community figures often volunteered for the Four Minute Men program. This gave the speeches a local voice. Also, the four minute men were given general topics and talking points to follow and rotated between theaters to help the speeches seem fresh, instead of generic propaganda speeches.\n\nThese speeches usually celebrated Woodrow Wilson as a larger than life character and the Germans as less-than-human huns. \n\nThe four minute men was a division of the Committee on Public Information, headed by George Creel. The Committee on Public Information appointed William McCormick Blair as director of the Four Minute Men. Blair appointed state chairmen of the Four Minute Men, who then would appoint a city or community chairman. Each of these appointments needed to be approved in Washington. The local chairman would then appoint a number of speakers to cover the theaters in the city or community for which he is responsible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32119182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32119182", "title": "General Colonization Law", "text": "General Colonization Law\n\nThe Colonization Law of August 18, 1824 was a Mexican statute allowing foreigners to immigrate to the country.\n\nUnder Spanish rule, New Spain was populated almost solely with native peoples or Spanish settlers. Foreign immigration was forbidden for much of the country. Few settlers chose to journey to the economically stagnant northern frontier, leaving provinces like Spanish Texas and Alta California chronically underpopulated. Despite multiple efforts to increase the population along the frontier, by 1821 there were only 3,200 settlers in Alta California, and only 2,500 in Texas.\n\nIn 1819, after the United States abandoned its claims to Texas, Spain implemented a new immigration policy. In January 1821, Spanish authorities gave Moses Austin, a former Spanish subject from Louisiana, a land grant and permission to bring families from Louisiana to Texas. Austin died before bringing any families. Several months later, at the urging of Mexican delegates, the Spanish Cortes granted permission for foreigners to live on public lands along the northern frontier of the colony. The lack of a formal policy had not stopped many immigrants - a number of people had left the United States to settle in the Mexican northern provinces. Local officials were not eager to expel potentially productive settlers who could help improve the colonies, and the squatters were generally left alone. \n\nShortly thereafter, Mexico gained independence from Spain. The new country was very sparsely populated. Approximately 6.2 million people lived in an area that spanned from what is now the United States state of Oregon to what is now Guatemala. Almost 10% of the population - primarily young men - had been killed during the Mexican War of Independence, leaving the young nation with a shortage of laborers.\nMany Mexicans believed that a new method for increasing population along the frontiers was necessary. The sparse settlements were vulnerable to attacks from native tribes and for encroachment by foreign powers. The most vulnerable was Texas; early in 1821 the town of Goliad had been captured by American filibusters as part of the Long Expedition. By 1823, approximately 3,000 Americans from the United States were living illegally in Texas. The roughly 200 Mexican troops garrisoned in the province were unable to effectively patrol the borders to keep out additional squatters, nor were they powerful enough to evict the squatters already there. Proponents of immigration reform argued that legalizing these settlers would help to turn their loyalty towards Mexico.\n\nMany believed that Mexicans were not suitable colonists, and most agreed that the system of missions and presidios did not work well for settling the frontiers. Mexican liberals argued in favor of allowing foreigners to immigrate. This would satisfy multiple objectives, including promoting economic growth, increasing the number of males available to defend the country, and bringing new capital and skills into the country to replace those lost when many Spaniards were expelled or chose to leave the country. Proponents of immigration pointed to the United States' population growth, attributed largely to immigration. Opponents cautioned that there may be difficulties in attracting settlers and later assimilating them to Mexican mores. \n\nEmperor Agustin de Iturbide made colonization a priority for his administration. He appointed a government commission, headed by Juan Francisco Azcárate y Ledesma, to recommend a plan. The commission recommended following the precedent of the earlier Spanish law and allowing foreign settlers to help colonize Coahuila, Nuevo Santander, Baja California, Alta California, New Mexico, and Texas. The proposal suggested that Europeans and American citizens be recruited for most of the states and provinces, although for California they instead recommended sending Mexican convicts and recruiting Chinese settlers.\n\nIturbide's primary concern was stabilizing the new government, and the Imperial Colonization Law was not signed until February 18, 1823. Iturbide was overthrown a month later, and the law was annulled shortly thereafter. During its brief existence, a few land grants were awarded to empresarios who agreed to settle a number of families. One went to Stephen F. Austin, son of Moses Austin, and another to Martin de Leon.\n\nOn August 18, 1824, the new Mexican government passed the General Colonization Law. This statute allowed foreigners to gain title to land that was not within 20 leagues of the border of another country or within 10 leagues of the coast. Settlers would be exempt from taxes for ten years.\n\nMost individuals were restricted to a total of 11 square leagues of land (). Of these, 6 square leagues could be of quality for grazing animals, 1 square league could be irrigable land, and 4 square leagues could be non-irrigable. New towns would be given an additional 4 leagues of land for public use. Empresarios were granted more personal land; for every 100 families settled, the empresario could receive 5 \"sitios\" of grazing land and 5 \"labores\" of farm land.\n\nThe law did not require settlers to be Mexican citizens, although citizens were given preference in land grants, and did not require that the settlers convert to Catholicism. However, federal laws prohibited all religions except Catholicism.\n\nLand would be granted from available public land. Spanish custom had allowed residents continuing use of their land as long as there was no challenge to ownership. The new law allowed residents, including Christianized natives, to claim title to any land they inhabited, cultivated, or used for grazing. \n\nEach state was to have administrators to survey land, confirm land titles, and settle disputes. Missionaries were tasked with helping the native tribes to understand the process. Governors were to organize and preside over land commissions to review and finalize the land titles.\n\nThere were few specifics in the law. States were directed to design their own statues to implement the federal law. Northern states were the first to pass laws of their own. Coahuila y Tejas passed a state law implementing the federal plan on March 24, 1825.\n\nThe process for gaining an official land title was expensive and time-consuming, and many residents chose not to have the land surveyed or complete the application process. Because residents had not sought the legal protection, however, some empresarios claimed land that had long been inhabited, forcing the existing residents from their homes. Many of the traditional hunting grounds of the native tribes were considered public land and given to empresarios to settle foreigners. \n\nMany Americans immigrated to Mexico, where land was cheaper. By 1830, Texas had a population of 7,000 foreign-born residents, with only 3,000 Mexican nationals. The new population was not fully assimilated. Many immigrants settled in the eastern part of Texas and were isolated from the established Mexican towns. The attitudes of the immigrants, culminating in the Fredonian Rebellion's failed secession attempt in 1827, alarmed Mexican officials.\n\nThe Law of April 6, 1830 rescinded all empresario contracts that had not been completed and prohibited Americans from settling in any Mexican territory adjacent to the United States. Secretary of State Lucas Alamán, who wrote the 1830 law, said that \"Texas will be lost for this Republic if adequate measures to save it are not taken. ... Where others send invading armies ... [the Americans] send their colonists\".\n\nIn 1836, federal officials rescinded the provision allowing governors to preside over land commissions. Although most governors were honest, in Arizona and California some were land speculators who seized land illegally and gave it to their friends and relatives. The updated rules forbade anyone who was not a federal official from issuing the patent.\n\n"}
{"id": "40701380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40701380", "title": "German declaration of war against the United States", "text": "German declaration of war against the United States\n\nOn 11 December 1941, four days after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and the United States declaration of war against the Japanese Empire, Nazi Germany declared war against the United States, in response to what was claimed to be a series of provocations by the United States government when the US was still officially neutral during World War II. The decision to declare war was made by Adolf Hitler, apparently offhand, almost without consultation. Later that day, the United States declared war on Germany.\n\nThe course of relations between Germany and the United States had deteriorated since the beginning of World War II, inevitably so given the increasing cooperation between the United States and the United Kingdom. The Destroyers for Bases Agreement, Lend-Lease, the Atlantic Charter, the hand-over of military control of Iceland from the United Kingdom to the United States, the extension of the Pan-American Security Zone, and many other results of the special relationship which had developed between the two countries had put a strain on relations between the US, still technically a neutral country, and Nazi Germany. US destroyers escorting American supply vessels bound for the UK were already engaged in a \"de facto\" war with German U-Boats. Roosevelt's desire to help the UK, despite the objections of the influential US isolationist lobby, and legal impediments imposed by Congress which prevented direct involvement in the war, brought the US to push hard against the traditional boundaries of neutrality.\n\nOn December 7, 1941, the Empire of Japan launched an attack on the US naval and army base on Pearl Harbor in Hawaii, beginning a war between Japan and the United States. Japan had not informed its ally, Germany, in advance of the attack, although the Japanese ambassador had informed the German Foreign Minister, Joachim von Ribbentrop, at the beginning of December that relations between the US and the Japanese Empire were at a breaking point, and that war was imminent. He was instructed to ask Germany for commitment to declare war under the terms of the Tripartite Pact should that occur. Hitler and Ribbentrop had been urging Japan to attack and take over Singapore from the British, on the theory that doing so would not only hurt the UK, but would also serve to help keep the US out of the war.\n\nAccording to the terms of their agreements, Germany was obliged to come to the aid of Japan if a third country attacked Japan, but not if Japan attacked a third country. Ribbentrop reminded Hitler of this, and pointed out that to declare war against the US would add to the number of enemies Germany was fighting against, but Hitler dismissed this concern as not being important, and, almost entirely without consultation, chose to declare war against the US, wanting to do so before, he thought, Roosevelt would declare war on Germany.\n\nIn fact, Hitler's declaration of war came as a great relief to British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, who feared the possibility of two parallel but disconnected wars – the UK and Soviet Union versus Germany in Europe, and the US and the British Empire versus Japan in the Far East and the Pacific. With Nazi Germany's declaration against the United States in effect, American assistance for Britain in both theaters of war as a full ally was assured. It also simplified matters for the American government, as John Kenneth Galbraith recalled:\n\nWhen Pearl Harbor happened, we [Roosevelt's advisors] were desperate. ... We were all in agony. The mood of the American people was obvious – they were determined that the Japanese had to be punished. We could have been forced to concentrate all our efforts on the Pacific, unable from then on to give more than purely peripheral help to Britain. It was truly astounding when Hitler declared war on us three days later. I cannot tell you our feelings of triumph. It was a totally irrational thing for him to do, and I think it saved Europe.\"\n\nHitler's reasons for declaring war against the US when he was not obligated to were numerous. One was an emotional response: the Japanese tactic of using a surprise attack without making a declaration of war appealed to him – he had done the same thing when he attacked the Soviet Union with Operation Barbarossa in June 1941; indeed, he told the Japanese ambassador \"[O]ne should strike – as hard as possible – and not waste time declaring war.\" Also, the prospect of a worldwide war fed Hitler's tendency towards grandiose thinking, and reinforced his feeling that he was a world-historical figure of destiny. As he said in his declaration speech to the Reichstag:\n\nI can only be grateful to Providence that it entrusted me with the leadership in this historic struggle which, for the next five hundred or a thousand years, will be described as decisive, not only for the history of Germany, but for the whole of Europe and indeed the whole world.\n\nHitler's lack of knowledge about the US and its industrial and demographic capacity for mounting a war on two fronts also entered into his decision. As early as mid-March 1941 – nine months before the Japanese attack – President Roosevelt was acutely aware of Hitler's hostility towards the United States, and the destructive potential it presented. Due to this attitude within the White House, and the rapidly progressing efforts of the Americans' industrial capacity before and through 1941 to start providing its armed forces with the ordnance, combat aircraft and ships that would be required to defeat the Axis as a whole, the US was already well on its way towards the full-scale wartime economy which would make it the \"arsenal of democracy\" for itself and its allies.\n\nFinally, Hitler's deeply-held racial prejudices made him see the US as a decadent bourgeois democracy filled with people of mixed race, a population heavily under the influence of Jews and \"Negroes\", with no history of authoritarian discipline to control and direct them, interested only in luxury and living the \"good life\" while dancing, drinking and enjoying \"negrofied\" music. Such a country, in Hitler's mind, would never be willing to make the economic and human sacrifices necessary to threaten National Socialist Germany — and thus set the stage for a dangerously inaccurate view of the very nation that Hitler had stated in his unpublished \"Zweites Buch\" (\"Second Book\", 1928) would be the Third Reich's most serious challenge beyond his intended defeat of the Soviet Union. \n\nThe economic potential and racial composition of America had implications for Hitler's own ideological construct, indeed, how he saw Germany’s current problems and future hopes. His central ideas of 'living space' and race held the key to his image of the United States. In the United States' country, with a white 'Nordic' racial core, to which he attributed its economic success and standard of living, he saw a model for his vision of German 'living space' in Europe. \nThe one advantage of the declaration of war against the US provided for Hitler was as a propaganda diversion for the German public, to distract them from the state of the war against the Soviet Union, in which Germany had suffered severe setbacks and an unexpectedly prolonged engagement. Hitler had assured the German people that the Soviet Union would be crushed well before the onset of winter, but that, in fact, did not happen, and there was little in the way of good news. The timing of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor enabled Hitler to angle his planned speech to the Reichstag in a more positive fashion, squeezing as much propaganda value out of it as possible. Hitler, in fact, put off the speech – and the declaration of war – for several days, trying to arrive at the proper psychological moment to make the announcement. Still, the propaganda motive was hardly sufficient to justify declaring war on the US, especially considering that doing so would create an otherwise \"unnatural alliance\" between two disparate and heretofore antagonistic polities, the United States and the Soviet Union. Joachim C. Fest, one of Hitler's biographers, has argued that Hitler's decision was \"really no longer an act of his own volition, but a gesture governed by a sudden awareness of his own impotence. That gesture was Hitler's last strategic initiative of any importance.\"\n\nRegardless of Hitler's reasons for the declaration, the decision is generally seen as an enormous strategic blunder on his part, as it allowed the United States to enter the European war in support of the United Kingdom and the Allies without much public opposition, while still facing the Japanese threat in the Pacific. Hitler had, in fact, committed Germany to fight the US while in the midst of a war of extermination against Russia, and without having first defeated the UK, instead of taking the option of putting off a conflict with the US for as long as possible, forcing it to concentrate on the war in the Pacific against Japan, and making it much more difficult for it to become involved in the European war. At least to some extent he had held in his hands the power to control the timing of the intervention of the US, and instead, by declaring war against America, he freed Roosevelt and Churchill to act as they saw fit.\n\nFrom the point of view of Hitler and much of the German political and military elite, declaring war against the U.S. in response to the Pearl Harbor attack was a calculated risk in fighting the U.S. before they were prepared to effectively defend themselves. By that time, the German leadership believed that the United States was effectively acting as a belligerent in the conflict, given actions such as Lend-Lease of supplies to Britain to sustain their war effort, President Roosevelt's public statements, the deployment of American soldiers and Marines to Iceland, and U.S. Navy escorts of convoys across the Atlantic, which sometimes came into contact with U-boats; these acts, as well as America's previous intervention in World War I, led to the assumption that war between them was inevitable. As such, the decision was made to use the attack as a rationale for an official declaration of war in order to drive Britain out of the conflict by widening submarine operations and directly attacking U.S. commercial shipping. While Hitler's declaration of war against the United States eventually led to his downfall, initially it seemed successful in its objective of more effectively cutting Britain's supply lines, as the U.S. military's lack of tactics, equipment, and procedures for fighting U-boats caused 1942 to be the most devastating year of the war for shipping losses; the war declaration made the Second Happy Time possible for U-boats.\n\nAccording to Hitler's Naval Adjutant, Admiral von Puttkamer, the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor actually buoyed Hitler's assurance in winning the war, and improved morale among the high leadership of the armed forces. Peter Padfield writes:\n\nThe news [of Pearl Harbor] came as a surprise to Hitler although he knew of their intention to attack somewhere at some time and had made up his mind to support them if they attacked the United States. Now frivolously disregarding the huge financial and productive power of America and, according to ... von Puttkamer, blind to the realization that this power could be projected across the Atlantic, he gained renewed confidence in a victorious outcome to the war. His generals suffered from the same land-locked hallucination: his entire headquarters staff gave themselves up to 'an ecstasy of rejoicing'; the few who saw further 'became even lonelier'. Naval officers saw no more clearly than the generals.\n\nOn December 11, 1941, American \"Chargé d'Affaires\" Leland B. Morris, the highest ranking American diplomat in Germany, was summoned to Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop's office where Ribbentrop read Morris the formal declaration. The text was:\nMR. CHARGE D'AFFAIRES:\n\nThe Government of the United States having violated in the most flagrant manner and in ever increasing measure all rules of neutrality in favor of the adversaries of Germany and having continually been guilty of the most severe provocations toward Germany ever since the outbreak of the European war, provoked by the British declaration of war against Germany on September 3, 1939, has finally resorted to open military acts of aggression.\n\nOn September 11, 1941, the President of the United States publicly declared that he had ordered the American Navy and Air Force to shoot on sight at any German war vessel. In his speech of October 27, 1941, he once more expressly affirmed that this order was in force. Acting under this order, vessels of the American Navy, since early September 1941, have systematically attacked German naval forces. Thus, American destroyers, as for instance the Greer, the Kearney and the Reuben James, have opened fire on German submarines according to plan. The Secretary of the American Navy, Mr. Knox, himself confirmed that-American destroyers attacked German submarines.\n\nFurthermore, the naval forces of the United States, under order of their Government and contrary to international law have treated and seized German merchant vessels on the high seas as enemy ships.\n\nThe German Government therefore establishes the following facts:\n\nAlthough Germany on her part has strictly adhered to the rules of international law in her relations with the United States during every period of the present war, the Government of the United States from initial violations of neutrality has finally proceeded to open acts of war against Germany. The Government of the United States has thereby virtually created a state of war.\n\nThe German Government, consequently, discontinues diplomatic relations with the United States of America and declares that under these circumstances brought about by President Roosevelt Germany too, as from today, considers herself as being in a state of war with the United States of America.\n\nAccept, Mr. Charge d'Affaires, the expression of my high consideration.\n\nDecember 11, 1941.\n\nRIBBENTROP.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "20527929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20527929", "title": "Graduated response", "text": "Graduated response\n\nGraduated response (also known as three strikes) is a protocol or law, adopted in several countries, aimed at reducing unlawful file sharing.\n\nIn response to online copyright infringement, the creative industries, who are reliant on copyright, advocate a \"graduated response\" that sees infringers sent a series of notifications, warning those who have been alleged to have infringed copyright, plus additional information on how to secure their Internet connection and details of legal alternatives. Repeat-infringers risk intermediate technical measures such as bandwidth reduction, protocol blocking and, in a worst-case scenario, temporary access suspension. The content industry has gained the co-operation of internet service providers (ISPs), asking them to provide subscriber information for IP addresses identified by third parties as engaged in copyright infringement.\n\nThe content industry's proposal for internet service providers to throttle, temporarily suspend, or disconnect Internet access to a subscriber who had received three warning letters of alleged copyright infringement was initially known as \"three strikes\", based on the baseball rule of \"three strikes and you're out\". Because \"three strikes\" was understood to refer to physical assault, the approach was later termed \"graduated response\". Media attention has focused on attempts to implement such an approach in France and the UK, though the initiative, or variations of it, has been implemented in a number of other countries, or attempts are made to do so.\n\nIn a number of European countries early attempts to implement a graduated response have led to court cases to establish under which circumstances an ISP may provide subscriber data to the content industry. In order to pursue those that download copyrighted material the individual committing the infringing must be identified. Internet users are often only identifiable by their Internet Protocol address (IP address), which distinguishes the virtual location of a particular computer. Many ISPs allocate a pool of IP addresses as needed, rather than assigning each computer a never-changing static IP address. Using ISP subscriber information the content industry has thought to remedy copyright infringement, assuming that the ISPs are legally responsible for end user activity, therefore commuting an offence, and that the end user is responsible for all illegal activity connected to his or hers IP address. And if you commit such crime, you could be sentenced to up to 45 years in incarceration.\n\nIn 2005 a Dutch court ordered ISPs in the Netherlands to not divulge subscriber information because of the way the Dutch content industry group had collected the IP addresses (Foundation v. UPC Netherlands). According to Dutch law ISPs can only be ordered to provide personal subscriber data if it is plausible that an unlawful act occurred, and if it is shown beyond a reasonable doubt that the subscriber information will identify the person who committed the infringing act. In Germany court specifically considered the right to privacy and in March 2008 the German Federal Constitutional Court ruled that ISPs could only give out IP address subscription information in case of a \"serious criminal investigation\". The court furthermore ruled that copyright infringement did not qualify as a serious enough offense. Subsequently, in April 2008, the Bundestag (German parliament) approved a new law requiring ISPs to divulge the identity of suspected infringers who infringe on a commercial scale. In Spain the Spanish Supreme Court recently ruled that personal data associated with an IP address could only be disclosed in the course of a criminal investigation or for public safety reasons (Productores de Música de España v. Telefónica de España SAU). In Italy courts established that criminally liability does not extend to file sharing copyrighted material, as long as it is not done for commercial gain. Ruling on a case involving a copyright holder employed a third party to collect IP addresses of suspected copyright infringers, the Italian Data Protection Authority ruled in February 2008 that the systematic monitoring of peer-to-peer activities for the purpose of detecting copyright infringers and suing them is not allowed.\n\nAccording to Barry Sookman and Dan Glover, the main characteristics of these initiatives are:\n\n\nThe British consumers' association named \"Which?\" favours the initiative, calling measures \"proportionate\". Some consumer rights groups have argued that the graduated response denies consumers the right to a fair trial and the right to privacy.\n\nIn France President Nicolas Sarkozy backed the proposal to implement a graduated response law and the French government passed a three strikes policy in the HADOPI law.\n\nA survey by the agency responsible for implementing the law suggested the approach was having a positive effect on behaviour. \"The report claims that 50% of all French believe HADOPI is a positive initiative, which runs contrary to many press reports claiming the French overwhelmingly rejected the law. Half the respondents of the survey also said HADOPI motivated them to access online content 'more often legally.' And 72% of the 100 people who personally received a HADOPI warning or knew of someone who did said they either ended or reduced illegal downloading.\"\n\nAn academic study by researchers at Wellesley College and Carnegie Mellon University found that public awareness of the initiative corresponds with an increase in French iTunes sales, far higher than in any other European country over the same period.\n\nAccounting for the fact that our independent variable is in log terms, these estimates indicate that iTunes track sales units rose about 25.5% in the control group after March 1, 2009 but by 48% in France, indicating that French iTunes track sales were 22.5% higher on average than they would have been in the absence of HADOPI. Similarly, album sales units rose by 42% in the control group but 67% in France, indicating that HADOPI increased iTunes album sales an average 25% per week in France.\n\nHowever, writing in \"Le Monde\", Damien Leloup and Jeremiah Baruch attribute the decline in digital piracy and sales increase to the introduction of a new iPhone. Consequently, co-authors of the study examined sales data for various devices, including the iPhone, and found that \"the change in iOS device penetration in France between 2008 and 2009 is nearly the same as the change in penetration in the control countries, and if anything the change in iOS device penetration is smaller in France than in the control countries when measured from 2008 to 2010.\" For this and other reasons \"it seems very unlikely that iOS device sales could have driven the disproportionate increase in French iTunes sales\" and \"we continue to believe that our data provide compelling empirical evidence that the HADOPI law made a difference in French music sales.\"\n\nNew Zealand was one of the first countries to enact a three strikes policy, but its implementation was delayed for a month pending development of a code of practice. It was revealed that the US was instrumental in the implementation of this policy.\n\nSouth Korea adopted a graduated response system in July 2009. Article 133bis of the Korean Copyright Act allows the Korean Copyright Commission to recommend ISPs to suspend the accounts of repeat file sharing offenders (as adjudged by the Commission) for six months. However, users' email accounts are not to be suspended.\n\nIn January 2009 the British government announced its plans to legislate a graduated response system through the Digital Economy Act 2010. In the report entitled \"Digital Britain\" the government includes plans for a mandatory \"code\" for ISPs to follow, as well as the creation of a government \"Rights Agency\" to help stakeholders deal with the issue of \"civil copyright\". Under the proposed scheme the UK government would legislate a \"Code on unlawful file-sharing\" that's ISPs would have to follow and would establish \"appeals and standards of evidence\". The Act has now been passed into law.\n\nAttempts in Ireland to implement three strikes for a number of ISPs have resulted in court proceedings, the latest of which concerned data protection issues. Only one ISP is still using this law in effect.\n\nIn 2011, a consortium known as the Center for Copyright Information established a voluntary graduated response scheme known as the Copyright Alert System.\n\n"}
{"id": "14080364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14080364", "title": "HINDRAF", "text": "HINDRAF\n\nHINDRAF or Hindu Rights Action Force (, Tamil: இந்து உரிமைகள் போராட்டக் குழு, Chinese: 兴权 ) with its slogan of \"People's Power\" (மக்கள் சக்தி translated as \"Makkal Sakthi\") began as a coalition of 30 Hindu non-governmental organisations committed to the preservation of Hindu community rights and heritage in a multiracial Malaysia.\nHINDRAF has made a major impact to the political landscape of Malaysia in staging the 2007 HINDRAF rally. In late 2007, several prominent members of the HINDRAF were arrested, some on charges of sedition; following an enormous rally organised by HINDRAF in November. The charges were dismissed by the courts. Five people have since been detained without trial under the Internal Security Act. The group has over the last two years developed a broader political program to preserve and to push for equal rights and opportunities for the minority Indians. It has been successful in continuing to focus attention on the racist aspects of the Malaysian Government policies.\n\nBetween April to May 2006, several legal Hindu temples were demolished by city hall authorities in the country. On 21 April 2006, the Malaimel Sri Selva Kaliamman Temple in Kuala Lumpur was reduced to rubble after the city hall sent in bulldozers.\n\nThe Hindu Rights Action Force or HINDRAF, a coalition of several NGO's, have protested these demolitions by lodging complaints with the Prime Minister of Malaysia but with no response. Many Hindu advocacy groups have protested what they allege is a systematic plan of temple cleansing in Malaysia. The official reason given by the Malaysian government has been that the temples were built illegally. However, several of the temples are centuries old.\nAccording to a lawyer for HINDRAF, a Hindu temple is demolished in Malaysia once every three weeks.\n\n\nOn 30 October, four HINDRAF Group fellows and human rights, namely M. Manoharan, P. Uthayakumar, P. Waytha Moorthy and V. Ganabathirau, were arrested and detained for taking part in the 2007 HINDRAF demonstration against the demolishing of a Hindu shrine in Kuala Lumpur. However, they were acquitted due to a lack of evidence of incitement and sedition.\n\nA series of peaceful weekend forums were organised throughout Malaysia to increase the awareness of Hindu human rights by HINDRAF. A previous forum held near central Kuala Lumpur had been disrupted by the Royal Malaysian Police, according to HINDRAF.\nSubsequently, HINDRAF appealed directly to the Inspector General of the Malaysian Police in an attempt to ensure future forums went on peacefully.\n\nOn 23 November 2007, three HINDRAF, P. Uthayakumar, Waytha Moorthy, and V. Ganabathirau, were arrested and charged under the Sedition Act. However, in a series of repeated arrests and releases, the courts could not prove that they had incited racial hatred. The only evidence against them were unreliable translations of their Tamil speeches into Bahasa Malaysia presented by the Attorney-General's Chambers, which the courts deemed as unverifiable. Eventually, they were all acquitted due to a shaky prosecution and the lack of evidence of any wrongdoing or crime.\n\nOn 31 August 2007, the 50th anniversary of Malaysia's independence, P. Waytha Moorthy, a HINDRAF lawyer filed a class action suit against the Government of the United Kingdom at the Royal Courts of Justice in London for US$4 trillion (US$1 million for every Malaysian Indian) for \"withdrawing after granting independence and leaving us (Indians) unprotected and at the mercy of a majority Malay-Muslim government that has violated our rights as minority Indians\" as guaranteed in the Federal Constitution when independence was granted.\n\nThe lawsuit is not only claiming 4 trillion British Pounds as compensation, it is also seeking to strike out Article 153 of the Malaysian Constitution which acknowledges Malay Supremacy and for the court to declare that Malaysia is a secular state and not an Islamic state as declared by former Prime Minister Tun Dr. Mahathir Mohamad who is quarterly of Indian-Muslim descent.\n\nAs the group, which represents mainly working class Malaysian Indians, could not afford the legal fees required, a petition was circulated with 100,000 signatures to be presented to Queen Elizabeth II to appoint a Queen's Counsel to argue the case. The purpose of the rally was to hand over a 100,000 signature memorandum to the British Embassy in Kuala Lumpur.\n\nHINDRAF organised the rally on Sunday, 25 November 2007 to submit the petition at the British High Commission. Malaysian police refused to grant a permit for the rally, and set up roadblocks in Klang Valley along roads leading up to the rally to screen motorists entering the city centre and identify \"troublemakers\". They also advised the public not to participate in the rally, and arrested three leaders of HINDRAF. Many shops around Kuala Lumpur including Suria KLCC were closed on that day in fear of trouble from the rally.\n\nOne day before the rally, police arrested three HINDRAF lawyers, P. Uthayakumar, P. Waytha Moorthy and V. Ganabathirau for sedition charges. Uthayakumar and Ganabathirau posted bail of 800 Malaysian ringgits each, but Waytha Moorthy refused bail as a sign of protest.\n\nThe police roadblocks started the week before the rally to create massive traffic jams across the city and the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur. The Malaysian Opposition leader Lim Kit Siang of the DAP pointed out that this high-handed act by the police was unnecessary as it caused major inconvenience to everyone.\nOn the morning of the rally, an estimated twenty thousand people gathered near the Petronas Twin Towers in Kuala Lumpur, carrying life-size portraits of Queen Elizabeth and Mahatma Gandhi, to indicate the nonviolent nature of their protest. Five thousand members riot police dispatched to the scene used tear gas and water cannon to disperse the crowds. 136 people were arrested.\n\nAl-Jazeera's coverage of the event showed police officers using tear gas to disperse the protesters. A few hundred protesters and three police officers were injured.\n\nThe protest at the Batu Caves resulted in minor property damages, although the Hindu temple itself was not damaged.\n\nHINDRAF later claimed to have faxed the petition to the British High Commission staff. However, as of 28 November, the British Envoy had not yet received any petition from the HINDRAF, though they did say they had received some unspecified information by fax.\n\nMalaysian prime minister, Najib Tun Razak warned that the government will invoke the Internal Security Act against the demonstrators if they needed. The prime minister further criticised the demonstrators, after he made a promise that he will listen to everyone even if they have unpleasant words to say, the government of Abdullah also attempted to link terrorism with the Hindraf rally via the media.\n\nAs of 11 December 2007, the HINDRAF leaders were all acquitted by the judicial courts due to lack of evidence and a flimsy prosecution case against their allegations. To contain the movement while not being able to charge them according to valid evidence-based legal processes, on 12 December 2007 Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi personally signed the detention letters to imprison the HINDRAF leaders under the ISA for two years, in which their detention terms are subject to infinite renewal. The reason given for this arrest was that the HINDRAF leadership has had links with international terrorist organisations such as LTTE and also supposedly militant organisations in the mould of RSS in India. The invocation of the ISA to capture the HINDRAF leaders was seen as a strategic move by the UMNO government to arrest the momentum generated by HINDRAF.\nThe UMNO lead Government has threatened the Malaysian Indian community with sweeping arrests under the Emergency Act and ISA (similar to Operasi Lalang of the 1987, which targeted anti-BN elements in Malaysia, mostly of Malaysian Chinese extraction). This hardline approach is also softened by the MIC reconciliatory approach to blunt HINDRAF's thrust as the champion of the Malaysian Indian community.\n\nEven as Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi started threatening to use the ISA against the HINDRAF leaders for bringing Malaysia's racist policies out into the open for all to see, foreign news outlets criticised Badawi's lack of initiative to tackle the root cause of the problem. The detention without trial of the HINDRAF leaders drew negative comments in the foreign press about Badawi's administration and the poor way that the Government of Malaysia were handling the issue.\n\nThe Democratic Action Party vowed to challenge the detention of the HINDRAF leaders. Despite the arrests, the opposition and most of the NGOs were unfazed and continued to challenge UMNO's deconstruction of democracy in Malaysia. The United States had also voiced their disapproval of this latest round of ISA arrests.\n\nThe official HINDRAF website at http://www.policewatchmalaysia.com has been allowed by Malaysian ISPs again, after a brief ban. However this site is constantly plagued by faults and downtime. In response to the ban, sites such as http://www.hindraf.org, http://www.myhindraf.com were spawned to maintain awareness of this movement, in addition to the many blogs available. The movement started in Malaysia, has grown global and now has following in UK, Australia, Canada and USA.\n\nThere has also been candlelight vigils at Hindu temples throughout Malaysia to protest the detention of five leaders of the HINDRAF. This was condemned by Malaysian minister Samy Vellu.\n\nThe Rose to the PM campaign was mooted to present a humanistic element in HINDRAF's campaign. The central focus of this campaign was the delivery of a rose, as a symbol of love and compassion, to the Malaysian Prime Minister at the Malaysian Parliament by Vwaishnavi Wathya Moorthy (aged 5). This symbolic act was to occur on 16 February 2008, but the Malaysian Lower House was dissolved for the Federal Elections on 13 February 2008.\n\nIn a dramatic show of force, the police fired teargas and targeted water cannon at several hundred ethnic Tamils at the centre of Kuala Lumpur. More than 200 people were detained by the authorities after being attacked by the police near the site of an Indian temple.\n\nThe 12th general Election showed how HINDRAF had become one of the triggers for a major change in the course of the country. The general dissatisfaction with the regime ruled by UMNO which had been brewing for some years was the kerosene and Hindraf Rally of 25 November was the tinder that sparked off the kerosene into a major explosion in what has come to be called a Political Tsunami in Malaysian politics.\n\nThe ruling UMNO led government lost its two-thirds majority in Parliament and came close to getting just over half the seats in Parliament from the Peninsula. HINDRAF which had barely existed for 3 years up to that time, and which was barely known up till August 2007 suddenly had caught the mood of a large proportion of Malaysians, not only Tamils and Hindus but the Chinese and a sizeable section of the Malays as well, causing a major upset in the process.\n\nAfter several warnings by the Malaysian government HINDRAF was officially banned on 15 October 2008, confirmed by Malaysian Home Minister Datuk Seri Syed Hamid Albar.\n\nIn a statement issued at the ministry, Syed Hamid said the decision to declare HINDRAF as an illegal organisation was made following the ministry being satisfied with facts and evidence that showed HINDRAF had and was being used for unlawful purposes and posed a threat to public order and morality.\n\n\"Based on powers vested under Section 5(1) of the Societies Act, HINDRAF from today is declared an illegal organisation,\" he said.\n\nHe said the order was being made as a result of monitoring and investigation on the organisation's activities by the Registrar of Societies (ROs) and Home Ministry, since Hindraf's inception.\n\nOn 23 October 2008, a group comprising eight men, three women and a child, were arrested by the police after they tried to hand a memorandum to the Prime Minister's office. The memorandum called for the release of the five Hindraf leaders from detention under the Internal Security Act.\n\nOn 27 February 2011, HINDRAF organised a demonstration in Kuala Lumpur protesting against the government's decision to include the Malay language novel \"Interlok\" in the school curriculum as compulsory reading for the Malay literature subject for students in secondary 5. HINDRAF alleges that \"Interlok\" contained disparaging remarks against Malaysian Indians and is deemed racist. The police arrested 109 people for allegedly taking part in an illegal demonstration.\n\nThe ban imposed on this minority right group was later lifted by the Malaysian Home Ministry on 26 January 2013 and on 8 March 2013 the Malaysian Registrar of Societies had approved the registration of Hindraf. Recently on 18 April 2013, fractions of Hindraf which were led by P. Waythamoorthy signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with BN in which they would work together to uplift displaced estate workers, resolve the issue of stateless persons and provide business opportunities thus bringing poor Indians into the mainstream of the country's development while others spreading out to parties within the federal opposition Pakatan Rakyat (PR), mostly to DAP or PKR\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22560420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22560420", "title": "Indian contract law", "text": "Indian contract law\n\nIndian contract law regulates contract law in India except the state of Jammu and Kashmir. The main contract law in India is codified in the Indian Contract Act 1872 which came into effect on September 1, 1872 and is applicable in the whole country. It governs entering into contract, execution of contract, and the effects of breach of contract.\n\nAccording to Section 2(h) of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 a contract is\n(i) An agreement Enforceable by law\nAn agreement as per Section 2(e) means a promise or a set of promises in exchange for a promise or a set of promises.\n\nEnforcement of contracts is a big problem in India as legal system can be slow and litigious. India is ranked 185th out of 191 countries surveyed by world bank in terms of ease of enforcing a contract.\n\n"}
{"id": "58553670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58553670", "title": "Indonesian electoral law of 2017", "text": "Indonesian electoral law of 2017\n\nThe Indonesian electoral law of 2017, also known in Indonesia as \"Undang-Undang Pemilu\", is the law regulating elections in Indonesia. Officially, it is known as the Law Number 7 of 2017 (\"Undang-Undang Nomor 7 Tahun 2017\", or UU 7/2017). The law was passed in July 2017 following nine months of debate in the People's Representative Council.\nIn anticipation for the simultaneous elections of 2019, the government initiated work on the draft for a new electoral law. By August 2016, president Joko Widodo has received the draft law, and the People's Representative Council received it on 21 October the same year. During the discussion of the law, there were disputes over the proposed presidential threshold, with political parties divided into three camps - PDI-P, Golkar and Nasdem supported a higher threshold of 25% legislative vote/20% parliamentary seats, Gerindra, PAN and Demokrat supporting the removal of the threshold, and PKB and PPP supporting a lower threshold of 15% legislative vote/10% parliamentary seats.\n\nThe draft was voted into law on 20 July 2017. During the voting procedure, opposing parties - Gerindra, PAN, PKS and Demokrat conducted a mass walkout with all their members, which includes three deputy speakers, except for another deputy speaker Fahri Hamzah who decided to remain. All remaining parties of the government coalition approved the 20 percent presidential threshold (\"Option A\"), with Hamzah the only opposition.\n\nThe law mandates an addition of 15 seats to the People's Representative Council, increasing the number to 575 divided across 80 electoral districts with 3-10 seats each, the additions given to provinces outside Java. In addition, the law sets the number of seats for local councils as the following:\n\nProvincial\n\nRegency/Municipal\n\nThe seats are also distributed in electoral districts with 3-12 members each. The law requires these electoral districts to follow the administrative borders of regencies/cities (provincial and national) or subdistricts (regency/city) if possible, though partition of a subdivision into multiple districts is allowed if not possible otherwise.\n\nIn total, the law mandated 20,392 non-independent legislative posts - 575 in the People's Representative Council, 2,207 in the Provincial Councils and 17,610 in the Regency/Municipal Councils.\n\nThe law maintains the electoral system used in 2014, using the open list system. Voters could vote directly for the candidate they wanted in a list of candidate names presented by party. The candidates are then ranked by vote in their respective parties, and the party's quota is determined through the Webster/Sainte-Laguë method after elimination of parties not meeting the threshold.\n\nFor presidential candidates, the winning candidate is determined by simple majority, with runoff voting for the top two candidates if no candidates managed to secure a first round majority. In addition, the winning candidate must secure at least 20% of votes in over half of the provinces (i.e. more than 17).\nDuring the previous election, parties are required to pass a parliamentary threshold of 3.5% in order to be represented in the People's Representative Council. The law increased this threshold to 4%. The presidential threshold was decided at the 25%/20% option, in which parties would need a total of 20% (112 for the 2019 election) legislative seats from the 2014 election, or 25% of the popular vote from 2014.\n\nThe threshold does not apply to local legislative elections, and all participating parties may win seats in provincial and municipal councils regardless of their total national vote.\n\nThe law increased limits to campaign contributions - from Rp 1 billion to Rp 2.5 billion for individuals, and Rp 7.5 billion to Rp 25 billion for legal entities or corporations. In addition, it allowed political parties which participated in the 2014 election to skip party verification, despite the addition of North Kalimantan as a province requiring party offices.\nThe law has been challenged in the Constitutional Court. A lawsuit by Vice President Jusuf Kalla on the term limits set by articles 169 and 227 was rejected in June 2018. A judicial review was also submitted regarding the presidential threshold (art. 222). A lawsuit to article 182, which did not explicitly prohibit political party functionaries to be elected into the Regional Representative Council, won in July 2018.\n"}
{"id": "58451812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58451812", "title": "International Skat Court", "text": "International Skat Court\n\nThe International Skat Court is the highest decision-making body in the sport of Skat. It oversees the observance of the International Skat Order (regulations for the game of Skat), the refereeing regulations and the rules for referees in Skat. The International Skat Court was founded on 1 December 2001 by a merger of the German Skat Court (\" Deutsches Skatgericht\"), founded in Altenburg in 1927, with the Rules Commission of the International Skat Players Association. (ISPA). It took over on 1 January 2002 and its seat is in the Hotel am Roßplan in the centre of Altenburg.\n\nUntil 1978 the German Skat Court had a three-member panel; from 1978 to 1990 it had five members and from the Reunification of Germany in 1990, seven members. From 1963 to 1990, East Germany had the Altenburg Skat Court. Today the Internationale Skat Court has nine members of which seven are chosen from the German Skat Congress and two by ISPA. The president of the court from 2002 until 2014 was Peter Luczak. His successors is Hans Braun.\n\nIn cases of dispute over the rules of Skat the participants may appeal to the Skat Court who, after hearing the case, make a binding decision.\n\n"}
{"id": "2179147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2179147", "title": "Joint Nature Conservation Committee", "text": "Joint Nature Conservation Committee\n\nThe Joint Nature Conservation Committee (JNCC) is the public body that advises the UK Government and devolved administrations on UK-wide and international nature conservation.\n\nOriginally established under the Environmental Protection Act 1990, JNCC was reconstituted by the Natural Environment and Rural Communities Act 2006.\n\nJNCC is led by the Joint Committee, which brings together members from the nature conservation bodies for England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland and independent members appointed by the Secretary of State for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs under an independent chair.\n\nSupport is provided to the committee by a company set up and controlled by the Committee solely for that purpose. The company employs around 130 people. They bring together scientific and technical expertise, extensive knowledge of policy at global, European and national levels and skills in working with other organisations. Staff are based in offices in Peterborough and Aberdeen.\n\nThe Joint Committee leads JNCC and has overall responsibility for its work. The Accountability Framework Document, Management Statement and Financial Memorandum provide the legal, administrative and financial framework within which the Joint Committee operates.\n\nThe membership of the committee is defined in schedule 4 of the Natural Environment and Rural Communities Act 2006. Current members are as below.\n\nThe committee meets four times in March, June, September and November. Members discuss strategic nature conservation and organisational issues as well as making high-level advice, strategy, funding and planning decisions.\n\nThe committee is committed to the principle of open government and has been holding open meetings since 2001. Members of the public are welcome to attend meetings as observers except when confidential issues are being discussed. Agendas and committee papers are made available one week ahead of meetings and draft minutes six weeks later. Inter-sessional papers, provided between committee meetings, are also available. Meetings are run in accordance with a set of standing orders.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41739202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41739202", "title": "Kuwaiti nationality law", "text": "Kuwaiti nationality law\n\nThe Kuwaiti nationality law restricts expats from easily becoming citizens of the State of Kuwait. The Kuwaiti nationality law is old and a decree was first passed in 1920, then in 1959. An Amiri decree was passed later in 1960 and from the 1970s the nationality law became restrictive. A number of amendments were made in 1980, 1982, 1994,1998, 2000. Amendments were made in 1987 but were rejected by the assembly. There were also proposals in 2006 but the parliament which proposed it dissolved.\n\nKuwait has more than 300 non-Muslim citizens, mostly Christians and Bahais. In 1982, the parliament amended the constitution to bar non-Muslims from naturalization. Kuwait plans to change their nationality law to allow non-Muslims to become citizens.\n\nThe late MP Nabeel al-Fadhel submitted an inquiry to the Constitutional Court questioning the constitutionality of barring non-Muslims from obtaining the Kuwaiti nationality. The most recent proposal was made by MP Saleh Ashour who suggested to cancel item 5 of article 4 of the constitution.\n\nAn original Kuwaiti is a person who settled in Kuwait before 1920. A person who believes that he has maintained his normal residence in Kuwait even though he is living in another country if he has intended to go back to Kuwait is also an original Kuwaiti.\n\nChildren born to unknown or a non Kuwaiti father, parents in Kuwait are not considered to be Kuwaiti citizens by birth,\n\nA child born to a Kuwaiti father irrespective of the place of birth is a Kuwaiti citizen.\n\nKuwaiti citizenship may be granted by the Minister of the Interior to, if he or she must satisfy all of the following:\nCitizenship may be granted by the Minister of Interior, if he or she also must satisfy one of the following:\n\nThe wife may be granted citizenship only if she declares her wish to be Kuwaiti. She may be granted citizenship only after 5 years from the date of her wish to become a Kuwaiti. The Minister of Interior has the right to reduce the number of years. The Kuwaiti husband has to be a Muslim in order to pass his citizenship to his wife. A wife whose husband was naturalized as a Kuwaiti may be granted citizenship only if she declares her wish to be a Kuwaiti within one year of her husband's naturalization. The children of the naturalization are considered to be Kuwaiti. They can decide whether they want to be Kuwaiti or attain the nationality of the parent's previous citizenship. Termination of marriage will not normally lead to revoking of citizenship. The wife of a husband who takes up the nationality of another country may not lose her nationality unless she wishes to do so. The children of their father who is a naturalized citizen of another nation may not get to keep their Kuwaiti citizenship and have to attain the citizenship of the father. The children may keep their nationality if the law of that country allows it. The children can get back their Kuwaiti citizenship upon attaining the age of majority.\n\nA foreign husband of Kuwaiti woman is not thereby entitled to become a citizen. Their children are not entitled to become citizens unless the father is dead, a POW or has divorced the Kuwaiti mother. Proposals has been made to allow foreign husbands and the children of Kuwaiti women to be naturalized.\n\nIn theory, he/she may not participate in Parliament of Kuwait for the next 30 years if the person is born to unknown parents, a naturalized citizen, a foreign wife of a foreigner who is granted citizenship or a foreign wife of a Kuwaiti who was granted citizenship.\n\nHe or she may lose their citizenship if they:\n\nA person may be denied citizenship if they satisfy the following:\nAny person may be restored or revoked of their citizenship if they have satisfied the above.\n\n\nKuwait does not recognize dual nationality.\n\nIn 2016, Kuwaiti citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 82 countries and territories, ranking the Kuwaiti passport 57th in the world according to the Visa Restrictions Index.\n"}
{"id": "1672017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1672017", "title": "Lex rei sitae", "text": "Lex rei sitae\n\nLex rei sitae is a legal doctrine of property law and of International private law. It is Latin for \"the law where the property is situated\". The law governing the transfer of title to property is dependent upon, and varies with, the \"lex rei sitae\".\nLEX REI SITAE: \"...real estate or immovable property is exclusively subject to the laws of the government within whose territory it is situated.\".\n\n"}
{"id": "659663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=659663", "title": "Litigant in person", "text": "Litigant in person\n\nIn England and Wales, a litigant in person is an individual, company or organisation that has rights of audience (this is, the right to address the court) and is not represented in a court of England and Wales by a solicitor or barrister. Instructing a barrister and not a solicitor, for example through the Public Access Scheme, however, does not prevent the party on whose behalf the barrister had been instructed from being a litigant in person.\n\nIt is possible nevertheless for litigants in England and Wales to obtain free legal advice and in some cases representation from the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB). \n\nThe term \"litigant in person\" is also used in the similar (but separate) legal systems of Irish law and Northern Irish law.\n\nThe equivalent in Scotland is a party litigant and in the United States is \"pro se\" legal representation. \n\nA special category of \"litigant in person\" arises when a defendant in a criminal case dismisses their defence counsel and chooses to defend the case themselves. This is almost invariably an inadvisable course of action, since the law and procedure can be complex and the penalties if convicted can be severe. Furthermore, in some jurisdictions the \"litigant in person\" is restricted from cross-examining the alleged victim in rape and other serious sexual offences. The underlying policy is that an alleged victim should not have to answer directly to an alleged rapist. The right of the individual to defend themselves is in conflict with the need to protect the alleged victim from any further humiliation. In the UK this conflict is resolved by the court appointing a special counsel at public expense to conduct cross-examination.\n\nHigh-profile cases in Scotland where the accused conducted his own defence and lost were Peter Manuel (who was hanged) and Tommy Sheridan.\n\nAn appellant in person is someone who by their own choice, or because their former counsel is criticised and has withdrawn, is conducting their own appeal at a Crown Court or at the Court of Appeal Criminal Division. The number of appellants who choose to do this are exceptionally small, mainly due to the inherent risks involved, appellants who serve a custodial sentence can have part of that sentence ordered to be served again if the court is of the view that the application is without merit. They must also understand highly complex court procedures, prepare detailed legal paperwork and orally argue a full legal appeal case in front of three High Court judges and a full court.\n\nIn \"Battle v Irish Art Promotion Centre Ltd\", the Supreme Court of Ireland ruled that a company cannot be represented by a corporate officer in lieu of a barrister or solicitor. The \"\"Battle\" rule\" has been slightly relaxed by later decisions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "369507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=369507", "title": "Lon L. Fuller", "text": "Lon L. Fuller\n\nLon Luvois Fuller (June 15, 1902 – April 8, 1978) was a noted legal philosopher, who criticized legal positivism and defended a secular and procedural form of natural law theory. Fuller was a professor of Law at Harvard University for many years, and is noted in American law for his contributions to both jurisprudence and the law of contracts. His debate in 1958 with the prominent British legal philosopher H. L. A. Hart in the \"Harvard Law Review\" (Vol. 71) was important in framing the modern conflict between legal positivism and natural law theory. In his widely discussed 1964 book, \"The Morality of Law\", Fuller argues that all systems of law contain an \"internal morality\" that imposes on individuals a presumptive obligation of obedience. Robert S. Summers said in 1984: \"Fuller was one of the four most important American legal theorists of the last hundred years\".\n\nIn his 1958 debate with Hart and more fully in \"The Morality of Law\" (1964), Fuller sought to steer a middle course between traditional natural law theory and legal positivism. Like most legal academics of his day, Fuller rejected traditional religious forms of natural law theory, which view human law as rooted in a rationally knowable and universally binding \"higher law\" that derives from God. Fuller accepted the idea, found in the writings of some traditional natural law theorists, that in some cases unjust laws or legal systems are not law. In his famous Reply to Professor Hart in the Hart-Fuller debate, he wrote:\nI would like to ask the reader whether he can actually share Professor Hart's indignation that, in the perplexities of the postwar re-construction, the German courts saw fit to declare this thing not a law. Can it be argued seriously that it would have been more beseeming to the judicial process if the postwar courts had undertaken a study of \"the interpretative principles\" in force during Hitler's rule and had then solemnly applied those \"principles\" to ascertain the meaning of this statute? On the other hand, would the courts really have been showing respect for Nazi law if they had construed the Nazi statutes by their own, quite different, standards of interpretation? (p. 655)\n\nProfessor Hart castigates the German courts and Radbruch, not so much for what they believed had to be done, but because they failed to see that they were confronted by a moral dilemma of a sort that would have been immediately apparent to Bentham and Austin. By the simple dodge of saying, \"When a statute is sufficiently evil it ceases to be law,\" they ran away from the problem they should have faced.\n\nThis criticism is, I believe, without justification. So far as the courts are concerned, matters certainly would not have been helped if, instead of saying, \"This is not law,\" they had said, \"This is law but it is so evil we will refuse to apply it.\" (p. 655)\n\nTo me there is nothing shocking in saying that a dictatorship which clothes itself with a tinsel of legal form can so far depart from the morality of order, from the inner morality of law itself, that it ceases to be a legal system. When a system calling itself law is predicated upon a general disregard by judges of the terms of the laws they purport to enforce, when this system habitually cures its legal irregularities, even the grossest, by retroactive statutes, when it has only to resort to forays of terror in the streets, which no one dares challenge, in order to escape even those scant restraints imposed by the pretence of legality - when all these things have become true of a dictatorship, it is not hard for me, at least, to deny to it the name of law. (p. 660)\nFuller also denied the core claim of legal positivism that there is no necessary connection between law and morality. According to Fuller, certain moral standards, which he calls \"principles of legality,\" are built into the very concept of law, so that nothing counts as genuine law that fails to meet these standards. In virtue of these principles of legality, there is an inner morality to the law that imposes a minimal morality of fairness. Some laws, he admits, may be so wicked or unjust that they should not be obeyed. But even in these cases, he argues, there are positive features of the law that impose a defensible moral duty to obey them.\n\nAccording to Fuller, all purported legal rules must meet eight minimal conditions in order to count as genuine laws. The rules must be (1) sufficiently general, (2) publicly promulgated, (3) prospective (i.e., applicable only to future behavior, not past), (4) at least minimally clear and intelligible, (5) free of contradictions, (6) relatively constant, so that they don't continuously change from day to day, (7) possible to obey, and (8) administered in a way that does not wildly diverge from their obvious or apparent meaning. These are Fuller's \"principles of legality.\" Together, he argues, they guarantee that all law will embody certain moral standards of respect, fairness, and predictability that constitute important aspects of the rule of law.\n\nFuller presents these issues in \"The Morality of Law\" with an entertaining story about an imaginary king named Rex who attempts to rule but finds he is unable to do so in any meaningful way when any of these conditions are not met. Fuller contends that the purpose of law is to subject \"human conduct to the governance of rules\". If any of the eight principles is flagrantly lacking in a system of governance, the system will not be a legal one. The more closely a system is able to adhere to them, the nearer it will be to the rule-of-law ideal, though in reality all systems must make compromises and will fall short of perfect ideals of clarity, consistency, stability, and so forth.\n\nIn a review of \"The Morality of Law\", Hart criticises Fuller's work, saying that these principles are merely ones of means-ends efficiency; it is inappropriate, he says, to call them a morality. Employing Fuller's eight principles of legality, one could just as well have an inner morality of poisoning as an inner morality of law, which Hart claims is absurd. Other critics have challenged Fuller's claim that there is a prima facie obligation to obey all laws. Some laws, it is claimed, are so unjust and oppressive that there is not even a presumptive moral duty to obey them.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1552290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1552290", "title": "Mandatory sentencing", "text": "Mandatory sentencing\n\nMandatory sentencing requires that offenders serve a predefined term for certain crimes, commonly serious and violent offenses. Judges are bound by law; these sentences are produced through the legislature, not the judicial system. They are instituted to expedite the sentencing process and limit the possibility of irregularity of outcomes due to judicial discretion. Mandatory sentences are typically given to people convicted of certain serious and/or violent crimes, and require a prison sentence. Mandatory sentencing laws vary across nations; they are more prevalent in common law jurisdictions because civil law jurisdictions usually prescribe minimum and maximum sentences for every type of crime in explicit laws.\n\nMandatory sentencing laws often target \"moral vices\" (such as alcohol, sex, drugs, and to friendships and family via prohibition) and crimes that threaten a person's livelihood. The idea is that there are some crimes that are so heinous, there is no way to accept the offender back into the general population without first punishing them sufficiently. Some crimes are viewed as serious enough to require an indefinite removal from society by a life sentence, or sometimes capital punishment. It is viewed as a public service to separate these people from the general population, as it is assumed that the nature of the crime or the frequency of violation supersedes the subjective opinion of a judge. Remedying the irregularities in sentencing that arise from judicial discretion are supposed to make sentencing more fair and balanced. In Australia and the UK, sentencing has been heavily influenced by judicial idiosyncrasies. Individual judges have a significant effect on the outcome of the case, sometimes leading the public to believe that a sentence reflects more about the judge than the offender. Subsequently, creating stricter sentencing guidelines would promote consistency and fairness in the judicial system. Mandatory sentences are also supposed serve as a general deterrence for potential criminals and repeat offenders, who are expected to avoid crime because they can be certain of their sentence if they are caught. This is the reasoning behind \"tough on crime\" policy.\n\nUnited States federal juries are generally not allowed to be informed of the mandatory minimum penalties that may apply if the accused is convicted because the jury's role is limited to a determination of guilt or innocence. However, sometimes defense attorneys have found ways to impart this information to juries; for instance, it is sometimes possible, on cross-examination of an informant who faced similar charges, to ask how much time he was facing. It is sometimes deemed permissible because it is a means of impeaching the witness. However, in at least one state court case in Idaho, it was deemed impermissible.\n\nNotably, capital punishment has been mandatory for murder in a certain number of jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom until 1957 and Canada until 1961.\n\nOur history in the United States was primarily founded upon what is known as Discretionary Sentencing. Leading up to this period of time sentencing practices were largely criticized due to the discretionary applications utilized in sentencing. The assessment for sentencing was determined by three separate decisions (1) policy decisions, (2) factual decisions, and (3) decisions applying policy decisions to particular facts. In review of these policies regarding the applications of sentencing, the policy decisions are those that dictate what considerations should affect punishment. The second, which is factual determinations are the means by which a judge determines whether to apply a particular policy to an offender. The third decision judges make in discretionary schemes is how to apply the sentencing policies to the particular facts. This authority was applied by the judge under the discretionary sentencing system as historically practiced. It was not until the mid-twentieth century that mandatory sentencing was implemented. In short, the difference between mandatory and discretionary sentencing system lies in policy and application decisions.\n\nNow that historical practices of sentencing have been introduced, it is just as important to outline examples in reference to (1) policy decisions, (2) factual decisions, and (3) decisions applying policy vs. decisions to particular facts. \n\n\nTheir actions would result in punishment as a part of the sentencing process, regardless of the type of weapon in question. The 1st. individual in fact waved the weapon, but the 2nd. wave'd and inflicted force of use of the weapon. Therefore, the two individuals in question regarding the same crime would receive two separate sentences. \n\n\nOvertime the United States has under gone developmental growth in implementation of laws, sentencing guidelines and monumental transition points in time. Beginning in the early 1900, the United States began to assess its role on the use of drugs, their purpose and the responsibilities within the law. During this time in 1914, opiate drug use outside of medical purpose was prohibited. It was not until 1930 that marijuana would reach the same platform as opiates, prohibiting use. This further led to stiffer regulations, even though the use of marijuana was not believed to evoke violent tenancies as previously suggested in earlier years, but this level of awareness had not reached public acknowledgment. Which further led to the implementation of sentencing guidelines in reference to drug use as well as sales consisting of opiates primarily (heroin and morphine), but also to include marijuana. The sentencing guidelines outlined applied to the use and sales of drugs. However, during this time discretionary sentencing was actively practiced. Therefore, the individuals who were guilty of utilizing such drugs vs. the sale of such use typically resulted in different sentences.\nMandatory sentencing and increased punishment were enacted when the United States Congress passed the Boggs Act of 1951. The acts made a first time cannabis possession offense a minimum of two to ten years with a fine up to $20,000; however, in 1970, the United States Congress repealed mandatory penalties for cannabis offenses. With the passage of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986 Congress enacted different mandatory minimum sentences for drugs, including marijuana.\n\n\n\nThe Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986 is the one act known for shaping America. The implementations of this act has had many profound affects in the legal system, as we know it today. This act led to a Drug Free initiative regarding an individual’s employment, a Drug Free work place and certification requirements for employers, and a Drug Free environment for those who receive government benefits regarding low-income recipients and their housing. This act further addresses interventions regarding illegal sales of imports, the ability to overtake ones assets, if an individual is found guilty of distribution. The act also implemented the first laws surrounding money laundering, which also led to the exposure of professional dealers and further identifies the crisis we are faced with today in reference to \"The War on Drugs\" we still combat today. Those found guilty of distribution were sentenced as outlined.\n\n·   5g. of Crack vs. 500 g. of Powder Cocaine resulted in a minim sentencing of 5 yrs.\n\n·   50 g. of Crack vs. 5,000 g. of Powder Cocaine resulted in a minim sentencing of 10 yrs.\n\n·   50 g. of Powder Cocaine imported resulted in No Mandatory Sentence\n\nSeparate from each state's own courts, federal courts in the United States are guided by the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. (See War on Drugs for more information about US drug laws.) When a guideline sentencing range is less than the statutory mandatory minimum, the latter prevails. Under the Controlled Substances Act, prosecutors have great power to influence a defendant's sentence and thereby create incentives to accept a plea agreement. In particular, defendants with prior drug felonies are often subject to harsh mandatory minimums, but the prosecutor can exercise his discretion to not file a prior felony information. Then the mandatory minimum will not be applied.\n\nSafety Valve was created in 1994 to reduce mandatory sentencing for drug offenders under the following provisions:\n\n\nIn October 2011 a report was issued to assess the impact of \"United States v. Booker\" mandatory minimum penalties on federal sentencing by the United States Sentencing Commission.\n\nIn 2013, United States Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr. announced that the Justice Department would follow a new policy restricting mandatory minimum sentences in certain drug cases. In Alleyne v. United States (2013) the Supreme Court held that increasing a sentence past the mandatory minimum requirement must be submitted by a jury and found factual beyond a reasonable doubt. It increases the burden on the prosecutor to prove that the sentence is necessary for the individual crime by requiring that a mandatory minimum sentence be denied for defendant unless they fulfill certain criteria. Attorney General Holder held that the charges placed on an individual should reflect the uniqueness of the case and consideration in assessing and fairly representing his/her given conduct. This is supposed to prevent recidivism.\n\nCriminal justice advocates in the United States argue that mandatory minimum sentences are a major cause of the removal of the \"bottom income half to quartile\" of its population from the general public. As part of police targeting and surveillance and often harsh sentencing, mandatory sentencing often is proposed as \"fairness\" by those unfamiliar with the penal systems in the US. Mandatory sentencing still has not been linked to other areas such as racial profiling, a 700% increase in US prison incarceration rates, zero tolerance and prison growth at the expense of employment, housing, education, family support and quality of life.\n\nThe U.S. state of Florida has a 10-20-Life mandatory sentence law regarding sentences for the use of a firearm during the commission of another crime, and many PSA posters were created after the law was passed, which coined the slogan “Use a gun, and you’re done.” It gave a minimum mandatory sentence of 10 years if the offender pulls a gun, but does not fire a shot, 20 years if at least one shot is fired, and 25 years to life if the offender shoots someone. It has significantly reduced the amount of repeat offenders in the state since.\n\nIn 1996, 12 month mandatory sentencing laws around third offence home burglary were introduced by Western Australia through amendments to the 1913 Criminal Code. In 1997 mandatory sentencing was introduced to the Northern Territory in Australia. The three strikes and out policy raised incarceration rates of indigenous women by 223% in the first year. The incarceration rate for men rose by 57% and 67% for indigenous men. The mandatory sentencing laws sparked debate of the laws being discriminative (indirectly) as indigenous people are overrepresented in the crime statistics in the Northern Territory.\n\nNew South Wales has two mandatory sentences currently. The Crimes Amendment (Murder of Police Officers) Bill 2011 introduced mandatory life sentence without parole for a person convicted of murdering a police officer. Also, the Crimes and Other Legislation (Assault and Intoxication) Amendment 2014 introduced mandatory minimum sentencing of 8 years for alcohol fuelled acts of violence, as a response to the cases of king hit assaults in Sydney. These laws were championed by NSW Premier Barry O'Farrell largely due to the wide media coverage of similar cases, in particular the case of Kieren Loveridge who killed Thomas Kelly.\n\nLife imprisonment is mandatory for murder in Queensland, South Australia, and the Northern Territory. Life imprisonment is only mandatory in the other states for aircraft hijacking or with a minimum non-parole period of 20 years (25 years in South Australia and the Northern Territory) if a criminal is convicted of the murder of a police officer or public official.\n\nAustralia also has legislation allowing mandatory prison sentences of between five and 25 years for people smuggling, in addition to a fine of up to $500,000, and forfeiture and destruction of the vessel or aircraft used in the offence.\n\nIn 2017, the government of Victoria introduced a \"two-strike\" policy, with a minimum six-year jail sentence for repeat violent offenders.\n\n\nDenmark has mandatory minimum sentences for murder (five years to life) and regicide (life in prison § 115), deadly arson is punished with imprisonment from 4 years to life, and for an illegal loaded gun one year in state prison.\n\nThe state of Florida in the United States has a very strict minimum sentencing policy known as 10-20-Life, which includes the following minimums: 10 years' imprisonment for using a gun during a crime, 20 years' imprisonment for firing a gun during a crime, and 25 years' imprisonment in addition to any other sentence for shooting somebody, regardless of whether they survive or not.\n\nIn Canada and Ireland, life imprisonment is mandatory for murder if committed, at the time of the offence, as an adult. Parole ineligibility periods vary, but under Irish and Canadian law, are not less than 7 and 10 years, respectively.\n\nIn New Zealand, life imprisonment is mandatory for murder. Murders with certain aggravating factors have a mandatory 17-year non-parole period, instead of the default 10 years for life imprisonment. Since 2002, judges have the ability to overrule mandatory sentences where they would be deemed \"manifestly unjust\", such as in cases involving mercy killings and failed suicide pacts.\n\nIn Germany, murder for pleasure, sexual gratification, greed or other base motives, by stealth or cruelly or by means that pose a danger to the public or in order to facilitate or cover up another offense is mandatorily punished by life imprisonment.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, upon conviction for murder, the court must sentence the defendant to life imprisonment. The law requires that courts must set a minimum term before they become eligible for parole. For this purpose a number of \"starting points\" are in place that give guidance to a judge in order to impose a sentence in each different case of murder. There are currently five \"starting points\" for murder in England and Wales, namely: 12 years' imprisonment for cases of murder committed by a person under 18; 15 years' imprisonment for all \"other\" cases of murder committed by a person over 18; 25 years' imprisonment for cases of murder where a person over 18 uses a knife or other weapon at the scene; 30 years' imprisonment for cases of murder with \"particularly\" high aggravating factors, such as those that involve the use of a firearm or explosive, or a murder in the course of committing another offence such as robbery or burglary; and a whole life order, in cases that involve such \"exceptionally\" high aggravating factors, such as the murder of two or more persons, or the murder of a child following abduction or with sexual/sadistic motivation, meaning the person will never become eligible for parole.\n\nThe United Kingdom currently also has three more mandatory minimum sentences for certain offences, namely: a minimum of 7 years' imprisonment for a person over 18 convicted of trafficking, supplying or producing Class A drugs for the third or subsequent time; a minimum of 5 years' imprisonment (for a person over 18) or 3 years' imprisonment (for a person aged 16–17) for possession, purchase, acquisition, manufacture, transfer or sale of a prohibited firearm or weapon for the first or subsequent time; and a minimum of 3 years' imprisonment for a person over 18 convicted of a domestic burglary for the third or subsequent time.\n\nIn 1994, California introduced a \"Three Strikes Law\", which was the first mandatory sentencing law to gain widespread publicity. This state is known for fully enforcing laws and is considered most severe in comparison to other states. The Three strikes law was intended to reduce crime by implementing extended sentencing to deter repeated offenders. This consideration further restricts one’s ability to commit new crimes.  Similar laws were subsequently adopted in most American jurisdictions. \n\nHowever, California's \"Three Strikes Law\" is clearly outlined for all, especially those who are subjected to such sentencing. \n\nstrike (1)\n\nstrike (2)\n\nstrike (3) \n\nA similar \"three strikes\" policy was introduced to the United Kingdom by the Conservative government in 1997. This legislation enacted a mandatory life sentence on a conviction for a second \"serious\" violent or sexual offence (i.e. \"two strikes\" law), a minimum sentence of seven years for those convicted for a third time of a drug trafficking offence involving a class A drug, and a mandatory minimum sentence of three years for those convicted for the third time of burglary. An amendment by the Labour opposition established that mandatory sentences should not be imposed if the judge considered it unjust.\n\nAccording to figures released by the British government in 2005, just three drug dealers and eight burglars received mandatory sentences in the next seven years, because judges thought a longer sentence was unjust in all other drug and burglary cases where the defendant was found guilty. However, in 2003 a new \"two strikes\" law was enacted (effective from April 4, 2005), requiring courts to presume that a criminal who commits his second violent or dangerous offence deserves a life sentence unless the judge is satisfied that the defendant is not a danger to the public. This resulted in far more life sentences than the 1997 legislation. In response to prison overcrowding, the law was changed in 2008 to reduce the number of such sentences being passed, by restoring judicial discretion and abolishing the presumption that a repeat offender is dangerous.\n\nAustralia's Northern Territory in March 1997 introduced mandatory sentences of one month to one year for the third offence regarding property and theft. They were later adopted by Western Australia.\n\nConcerning US federal prisons, Barbara S. Meierhoefer, in her report for the Federal Judicial Center stated: \"The proportion of black offenders grew from under 10% in 1984 to 28% of the mandatory minimum drug offenders by 1990; whites now constitute less than a majority of this group. This is a much more dramatic shift than found in the federal offender population in general.\"\n\nHarsh penalties lead to racial disparity. According to the Statistical Overview of Mandatory Minimum Penalties presented in October 2011, \"[o]f all offenders convicted of an offense carrying a mandatory minimum punishment and who remained subject to that penalty at sentencing, 38.5 percent were Black (n=4,076), 31.8 percent were Hispanic (n=3,364), and 27.5 percent (n=2,913) were White.\"\n\nAlthough exceptions such as the safety valve are authorized, demographics associated with race relevant to mandatory sentencing continue to show. \"Hispanic offenders received relief from applicable mandatory minimum penalties at the highest rates, with rates of 65.9 percent in fiscal year 2000, 57.7 percent in fiscal year 2005, and 55.7 percent in fiscal year 2010. Other Race offenders had the next highest rates (52.8% in fiscal year 2000, 53.1% in fiscal year 2005 and 58.9% in fiscal year 2010). Black offenders consistently had the lowest rates (45.7% in fiscal year 2000, 32.8 percent in fiscal year 2005, and 34.9% in fiscal year 2010). White offenders received relief at 60.3 percent in fiscal year 2000, 42.5 percent in fiscal year 2005, and 46.5 percent in fiscal year 2010.\"\n\nOpponents of mandatory sentencing point to studies that show criminals are deterred more effectively by increasing the chances of their conviction, rather than increasing the sentence if they are convicted. In a hearing of the House Judiciary Committee, Judge Paul G. Cassell, from the United States District Court for the District of Utah, described mandatory sentencing as resulting in harsh sentencing and cruel and unusual punishment, stating that the sentencing requirements punish defendants \"more harshly for crimes that threaten potential violence than for crimes that conclude in actual violence to victims\". A hearing in 2009 heard testimony from the American Bar Association which stated that \"Sentencing by mandatory minimums is the antithesis of rational sentencing policy\". In 2004 the association called for the repeal of mandatory minimum sentences, stating that \"there is no need for mandatory minimum sentences in a guided sentencing system.\" A 1997 study by the RAND Corporation found that mandatory minimums for cocaine offenses were not cost-effective in regards to either cocaine consumption or drug crime.\n\nSome judges have expressed the opinion that mandatory minimum sentencing, especially in relation to alcohol-fueled violence, is not effective. In \"R v O’Connor\", the High Court of Australia gave the opinion that when an offender is intoxicated, there will likely be a change in their personality and behaviour, which will then affect their self-control; that, while an offender may commit an act which is voluntary and intentional, it is not something that they would have done in a sober state. Intoxication is not a justification for criminal behaviour, nor (in most jurisdictions in the U.S. and Commonwealth) a legal defence; but since an intoxicated person's decisions are less likely to be shaped by rational assessment of consequences than those of a sober person, deterrence is likely to be less effective for intoxicated people.\n\nResearch indicates that mandatory minimum sentencing effectively shifts discretion from judges to the prosecutors. Prosecutors decide what charges to bring against a defendant, and they can \"stack the deck\", which involves over-charging a defendant in order to get them to plead guilty. Since prosecutors are part of the executive branch, and the judicial branch has almost no role in the sentencing, the checks and balances of the democratic system are removed, thus diluting the notion of separation of powers. Opponents of mandatory sentencing argue that it is the proper role of a judge, not a prosecutor, to apply discretion given the particular facts of a case (e.g., whether a drug defendant was a kingpin or low-level participant, or whether sex offender registration is an appropriate measure for a given crime and offender). When prosecutors apply discretion, they tend to invoke sentencing disparities when choosing among a variety of statutes with different sentencing consequences. In addition to fairness arguments, some opponents believe that treatment is more cost-effective than long sentences. They also cite a survey indicating that the public now prefers judicial discretion to mandatory minimums.\n\nIn 2015, a number of United States reformers, including the ACLU, the Center for American Progress, Families Against Mandatory Minimums, Koch family foundations, the Coalition for Public Safety, and the MacArthur Foundation, announced a bipartisan resolution to reform the criminal justice system and reduce mandatory sentencing laws. Their efforts were lauded by President Obama who noted these reforms will improve rehabilitation and workforce opportunities for those who have served their sentences. In their arguments they noted that mandatory sentencing is often too harsh of a punishment and cripples someone's livelihood for minor crimes.\n\nAustralia, Mexico, New Zealand and some other countries employ a system of mandatory restorative justice, in which the criminal must apologize to the victim or provide some form of reparation instead of being imprisoned for minor crimes. In serious crimes, some other form of punishment is still used.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34528398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34528398", "title": "Maria Boguslavka", "text": "Maria Boguslavka\n\nMaria Bohuslavka or Maria Boguslavka was a legendary heroine who lived in Ukraine in the 16th or 17th century. She is primarily known from many Ukrainian epic ballads (\"dumas\"), usually referred to as \"Duma about Marusya Boguslavka\", and other Ukrainian folklore. Her nickname 'Boguslavka' refers to her origin, the city of Boguslav. \n\nMarusya was kidnapped and sold into a Turkish harem. The \"duma\" tells how she earned the trust of her husband and gained access to the keys of the palace, including the prison. She used them to free a group of Ukrainian Cossacks who had been imprisoned for 30 years. However, she did not flee with them but remained in the harem since this was now the only life she knew.\n\nIn comments to the dumas about Marusya, her high status is compared to that of Roxelana.\n\n"}
{"id": "43968896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43968896", "title": "McLaren Maycroft &amp; Co v Fletcher Development Co Ltd", "text": "McLaren Maycroft &amp; Co v Fletcher Development Co Ltd\n\nMcLaren Maycroft & Co v Fletcher Development Co Ltd [1973] 2 NZLR 100 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding concurrent duties in contract and tort, ruling that in situations where there is a contract, the parties can not pursue any claim in tort. This has been subsequently overruled in Price Waterhouse v Kwan\n"}
{"id": "1723479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1723479", "title": "Misuse of Drugs Act 1975", "text": "Misuse of Drugs Act 1975\n\nThe Misuse of Drugs Act 1975 is a New Zealand drug control law that classifies drugs into three classes, or schedules, based on their projected risk of serious harm of loss of life.\n\nThe Controlled Substances Classification system has been around for decades but only in 2006 was benzylpiperazine was classified that a substance first became scheduled for health reasons. Most of the commonly controlled substances, such as opium, cocaine and cannabis, were first classified in 1921 during the International Opium Conference.\n\nDuring this conference, the United States were strongly advocating for the banning of these substances unless a scientific or medical use became apparent. New Zealand signed this treaty and its 37th Parliament went on to incorporate this law into the Misuse of Drugs Act 1975, without any public review. However, the United States did not sign the treaty.\n\nFirst Schedule: Very high risk of harm and illegal:\n\nSecond Schedule: Very high risk of harm and on prescription:\n\nThird Schedule: Moderate risk of harm:\n\nPrecursor substances.\n\nThe Expert Advisory Committee on Drugs (EACD) makes scheduling decisions, based on scientific and medical evidence and/or international treaty obligations. New Zealand is a party to the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, the Convention on Psychotropic Substances and the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances.\n\nNational Drug Policy New Zealand notes, \"The Conventions place certain obligations on signatory countries. When the UN classifies (or re-classifies) a substance under one of the above Conventions, it requires signatory countries to amend their domestic legislation to ensure consistency with the UN's amendment. Accordingly, the impetus for some of the drugs to be considered by the EACD will originate from decisions made at the UN\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "130597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130597", "title": "Moffett, Oklahoma", "text": "Moffett, Oklahoma\n\nMoffett is a town in Sequoyah County, Oklahoma. It is part of the Fort Smith, Arkansas-Oklahoma Metropolitan Statistical Area. The population was 128 at the 2010 census, a loss of 28.5 percent from 179 at the 2000 census.\n\nAfter the Civil War, several Cherokee and Cherokee freedmen settled around the present community of Moffett. A post office was established in 1908 and was named for Martha Moffett Payne, wife of Dr. Samuel Payne. The town became an agricultural center, especially for cotton farmers.\n\nMoffett incorporated in 1928. Its population was 340 at the 1930 census, and peaked at 538 in 1940. Before and during World War II, the town's bars and gambling establishments attracted soldiers from nearby Fort Smith, Arkansas and Camp Chaffee. The U. S. Army declared Moffett \"off limits\" during the war, and kept the ban in place until the mid-1970s. The town began a long decline after World War II. The 1960 census counted 357 residents, and the decline has continued to the present.\n\nMoffett's history has included several damaging floods. The most notable of these occurred in 1943, 1957, 1986, and 1990.\n\nIn 2007 the town filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy after Oklahoma's attorney general declared it was operating a speed trap, and barred local police from issuing speeding citations. Without the steady stream of citation revenue generated from motorists passing through on U.S. Highway 64, the town was unable to manage the $200,000 in debts incurred by the former mayor.\n\nMoffett is located at (35.389791, -94.446286). The town is located in the Arkansas River floodplain, across the river from Fort Smith, Arkansas.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of , all of it land.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 179 people, 61 households, and 40 families residing in the town. The population density was 1,373.2 people per square mile (531.6/km²). There were 68 housing units at an average density of 521.7 per square mile (202.0/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 58.10% White, 8.38% African American, 6.15% Native American, and 27.37% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 6.15% of the population.\n\nThere were 61 households out of which 34.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 37.7% were married couples living together, 14.8% had a female householder with no husband present, and 32.8% were non-families. 27.9% of all households were made up of individuals and 18.0% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.93 and the average family size was 3.59.\n\nIn the town, the population was spread out with 38.5% under the age of 18, 6.1% from 18 to 24, 26.8% from 25 to 44, 19.0% from 45 to 64, and 9.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 28 years. For every 100 females, there were 98.9 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 107.5 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $16,875, and the median income for a family was $18,750. Males had a median income of $29,500 versus $18,125 for females. The per capita income for the town was $9,743. About 34.1% of families and 42.6% of the population were below the poverty line, including 49.1% of those under the age of 18 and 39.1% of those 65 or over.\n"}
{"id": "2266366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2266366", "title": "Multi-licensing", "text": "Multi-licensing\n\nMulti-licensing is the practice of distributing software under two or more different sets of terms and conditions. This may mean multiple different software licenses or sets of licenses. Prefixes may be used to indicate the number of licenses used, e.g. dual-licensed for software licensed under two different licenses.\n\nWhen software is multi-licensed, recipients can typically choose the terms under which they want to use or distribute the software, but the simple presence of multiple licenses in a software package or library does not necessarily indicate that the recipient can freely choose one or the other. In some cases, especially when the software has multiple origins, all the accompanied licenses apply at the same time. The applicability of the different licenses has to be individually checked. The distributor may or may not apply a fee to either option. The two usual motivations for multi-licensing are license compatibility and market segregation based business models.\n\nMulti-licensing is commonly done to support free software business models in a commercial environment. In this scenario, one option is a proprietary software license, which allows the possibility of creating proprietary applications derived from it, while the other license is a copyleft free software/open-source license, thus requiring any derived work to be released under the same license. The copyright holder of the software then typically provides the free version of the software at little or no cost, and profits by selling proprietary licenses to commercial operations looking to incorporate the software into their own business. This model can be compared to shareware.\n\nSince in most cases, only the copyright holder can change the licensing terms of a software, multi licensing is mostly used by companies that wholly own the software which they are licensing. Confusion may arise when a person outside the company creates additional source code, using the less restrictive license. Because the company with the official code is not the copyright holder of the additional code, they may not legally include this new work in their more restrictively licensed version. Companies may demand outside developers agree to a contributor license agreement, before accepting their work in the official codebase and source code repositories.\n\nMulti licensing is used by the copyright holders of some free software packages advertising their willingness to distribute using both a copyleft free software license and a non-free software license. The latter license typically offers users the software as proprietary software or offers third parties the source code without copyleft provisions. Copyright holders are exercising the monopoly they're provided under copyright in this scenario, but also use multi licensing to distinguish the rights and freedoms different recipients receive.\n\nSuch licensing allows the holder to offer customizations and early releases, generate other derivative works or grant rights to third parties to redistribute proprietary versions all while offering everyone a free version of the software. Sharing the package as copyleft free software can benefit the copyright holder by receiving contributions from users and hackers of the free software community. These contributions can be the support of a dedicated user community, word of mouth marketing or modifications that are made available as stipulated by a copyleft license. However, a copyright holder's commitment to elude copyleft provisions and advertise proprietary redistributions risks losing confidence and support from free software users.\n\nExamples of multi-licensed software include Oracle's NetBeans IDE, MySQL AB's database, Asterisk, Oracle Corporation's Berkeley DB, Modelio, ZeroC's Ice, Magnolia CMS, JUCE, and Qt Software's Qt development toolkit.\n\nDescription on one specific example to illustrate multi-licensing:\nOracle MySQL comes in various editions:\nMySQL Enterprise Edition is a commercial edition, hence to be purchased. The license is only offered as a subscription, named MySQL Enterprise Edition Subscription. The same applies for MySQL Standard Edition (MySQL Standard Edition Subscription) and MySQL Cluster CGE (MySQL Cluster Carrier Grade Edition Subscription).\nThe other editions, such as the MySQL Classic Edition or MySQL Community Edition, are free to use with some restrictions. For instance, the MySQL Community Edition is a freely downloadable version, available under the GPL license and is supported by a community of open source developers.\n\nThe term \"single-vendor commercial open source\" was coined by Dirk Riehle in 2010, and has later been further popularized by other scholars, such as Simon R. B. Berdal.\n\nAccording to Riehle: \n\nIn contrast to traditional open source projects, a Single-vendor commercial open source project \"is controlled by exactly one stakeholder with the purpose of commercially exploiting it\". In this context, the open source community is less engaged in the development of core functionality, as they typically are in conventional (pure) open source projects. As the then CEO Mårten Mikos of MySQL said in an interview:\n\nHence, the community of multi-license software as a rule includes employees of the code-owning firm, as well as strategic partners that have vested interest in the software. As Riehle notes, \"In single-vendor open source, almost all of the core product development work is carried out by the commercial firm, with occasional contributions from the community.\"\n\nAs Berdal notes, the governance of the open source community becomes \"a key business management process\" in this context: \"As such, it needs to be aligned with other business activities. Governance models of dual-licensed OSS editions may therefore display a tendency towards commercial bias. To prevent the community from being provoked or alienated it may therefore seem imperative to balance commercial inclinations against “open” interests.\" This is by no means an easy task. As Berdal demonstrated through a case study of SugarCRM, this commercial open source software (COSS) business model can trigger substantial friction points, which can eventually lead to pure open source forks (table adapted from Berdal, Table 3, page 75):\n\nOnly a few months after these friction points were observed, a new fork of the SugarCRM Community Edition was announced.\n\nA second use of multi-licensing with free software is for license compatibility, allowing code from differently licensed free software projects to be combined, or to provide users the preference to pick a license.\n\nExamples include the source code of Mozilla Application Suite and previously Mozilla Thunderbird and Mozilla Firefox, that have used tri-licensing under the Mozilla Public License (MPL) 1.1, GNU General Public License (GPL) 2.0 or GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) 2.1 before the latter upgraded to GPL-compatible MPL 2.0, making the tri-licensing unnecessary. Other examples are Perl, which is dual-licensed under the GPL or Artistic License, and Ruby, whose license contains explicit GPL dual licensing.\n\nMulti-licensing is also used by distributors of non-free software. Sometimes this is done to proprietary software to segregate a market. By splitting customers into multiple categories such as home users, professional users, and academic users, copyright holders can set different prices for each group. However, among proprietary software companies, it is more common to release a \"home edition\" and a \"professional edition\" of a given product, which differ by the software and software features included, not just the license.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58589", "title": "Name change", "text": "Name change\n\nName change generally refers to the legal act by a person of adopting a new name different from their name at birth, marriage or adoption.\n\nThe procedures and ease of a name change vary between jurisdictions. In general, common law jurisdictions have loose procedures for a name change while civil law jurisdictions are more restrictive.\n\nA pseudonym is a name that differs from the original or true name and does not require legal sanction. It is generally adopted to conceal a person's identity, but can also be done for personal, social or ideological reasons.\n\n\nIn the United States, state laws regulate name changes. Several federal court rulings have set precedents regarding both court decreed name changes and common law name changes (changing the name at will), including \"Lindon v. First National Bank\".\n\nUsually a person can adopt any name desired for any reason. As of 2009, 46 states allow a person legally to change names by usage alone, with no paperwork, but a court order may be required for many institutions (such as banks or government institutions) to officially accept the change. Although the states (except Louisiana) follow common law, there are differences in acceptable requirements; usually a court order is the most efficient way to change names (which would be applied for in a state court), except at marriage, which has become a universally accepted reason for a name change. It is necessary to plead that the name change is not for a fraudulent or other illegal purpose, such as evading a lien or debt or for defaming someone else.\n\nApplicants may be required to give a reasonable explanation for wanting to change their names. A fee is generally payable, and the applicant may be required to post legal notices in newspapers to announce the name change. Generally the judge has limited judicial discretion to grant or deny a change of name, usually only if the name change is for fraudulent, frivolous or immoral purposes.\nIn 2004, a Missouri man succeeded in changing his name to They. The Minnesota Supreme Court ruled that a name change to 1069 could be denied, but that Ten Sixty-Nine was acceptable (\"Application of Dengler\", 1979); the North Dakota Supreme Court had denied the same request several years before (\"Petition of Dengler\", 1976).\n\nIn nearly all states, a person cannot choose a name that is intended to mislead (such as adopting a celebrity's name), that is intentionally confusing, or that incites violence; nor can one adopt, as a name, a racial slur, a threat, or an obscenity.\n\nSome examples of typically allowed reasons for name changes in the U.S. include:\n\nUnder the federal immigration-and-nationality law, when aliens apply for naturalization, they have the option of asking for their names to be changed upon the grants of citizenship with no additional fees. This allows them the opportunity to adopt more Americanized names. During the naturalization interview, a petition for a name change is prepared to be forwarded to a federal court. Applicants certify that they are not seeking a change of name for any unlawful purpose such as the avoidance of debt or evasion of law enforcement. Such a name change would become final if within their jurisdiction, once a federal court naturalizes an applicant.\n\nTo maintain a person's identity, it is desirable to obtain a formal order so there is continuity of personal records.\n\nThe \"open and notorious\" use of a name is often sufficient to allow one to use an assumed name. In some jurisdictions, a trade name distinct from one's legal name can be registered with a county clerk, secretary of state, or other similar government authority. Persons who wish to publish materials and not to be associated with them may publish under pseudonyms; such a right is protected under case law pursuant to United States Constitution.\n\nA common law name (i.e. one assumed for a non-fraudulent purpose) is a legal name. In most states a statutory method, while quick and definitive, only supplements the common law method, unless the statute makes itself exclusive. Although a person may sue under a common law name.\n\nIn California the \"usage method\" (changing the name at will under common law) is sufficient to change the name. Not all jurisdictions require that the new name be used exclusively. Any fraudulent use or intent, such as changing the name to the same name as another person's name, may invalidate this type of name change.\n\nSpecifically in California, Code of Civil Procedure § 1279.5 and Family Code § 2082 regulate common law and court decreed name changes. Code of Civil Procedure § 1279.5 (a) reads, \"Except as provided in subdivision (b), (c), (d), or (e), nothing in this title shall be construed to abrogate the common law right of any person to change his or her name.\" Subdivisions b through e preclude one from changing their name by common law if they are in state prison, on probation, on parole, or have been convicted of a serious sex offense. If a person is not in any of these categories, then a common law name change is allowed. (Family Code § 2082 also contains some of the same wording.)\n\nMany universities, hospitals, and other institutions allow one to use a \"preferred name\" instead of one's legal name. This name can show up on class rosters, online learning platforms, and student ID cards. It provides a \"transitional\"\nname change for those who have yet to, or cannot, receive a court-ordered name change.\n\nA legal name change is merely the first step in the name-change process. A person must officially register the new name with the appropriate authorities whether the change was made as a result of a court order, marriage, divorce, adoption, or any of the other methods described above. The process includes notifying various government agencies, each of which may require legal proof of the name change and that may or may not charge a fee. Important government agencies to be notified include the Social Security Administration, Bureau of Consular Affairs (for passports), the Federal Communications Commission, the Selective Service System and the Department of Motor Vehicles (for a new driver's license, learner permit, state identification card, or vehicular registration). Additionally the new name must be registered with other institutions such as employers, banks, doctors, mortgage, insurance and credit card companies. Online services are available to assist in this process either through direct legal assistance or automated form processing.\n\nAlthough state requirements differ, it is generally recommended to first register a new name with the Social Security office as some state motor-vehicle departments require updated social security cards to make changes; Arizona is one of these states.\n\nMost states require name changes to be registered with their departments of motor vehicles (DMVs) within a certain amount of time. For example, South Carolina, and Wyoming require a name change be registered with their office within ten days. Illinois, Texas and Vermont require it be registered within 30 days, while North Carolina allows up to 60 days. New York requires visiting a local motor vehicle office to change the name on all records and documents, but without a definite deadline to do so. The fees for registering a new name vary from state to state. The forms, along with the state-specific requirements, can generally be obtained for free.\n\nMany states will require reasons for wanting a name change. For example, in Florida, a court will not grant a petition for a change of name if it finds that (i) the petitioner has ulterior or illegal motives in seeking the name change, (ii) the petitioner's civil rights are suspended, or (iii) granting the name change will invade the property rights (\"e.g.\", intellectual property rights) of others.\n\nIn the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, citizens and residents have the freedom to change their names with relative ease.\n\nIn theory, anyone who is at least 16 and resident in the United Kingdom can call themselves whatever they wish. However, over the past hundred years or so, formal procedures that are recognized by record holders such as government departments, companies and organizations have evolved, which enable a citizen legally to change the name recorded on their passport, driving licence, tax and National Insurance records, bank and credit cards, etc., provided that \"documentary evidence\" of a change of name is provided. Documents such as birth, marriage and educational certificates cannot be changed because these documents are \"matters of fact\", which means that they were correct at the time they were issued.\n\nDocumentary evidence of a change of name can be in a number of forms, such as a marriage certificate, decree absolute, civil partnership certificate, statutory declaration or deed of change of name. Such documents are mere evidence that a change of name has occurred, however, and they do not themselves operate to change a person's name. Deeds of change of name are by far the most commonly used method of providing evidence of a change of name other than changing a woman's surname after marriage. A deed poll is a legal document that binds a single person to a particular course of action (in this case, changing one's name for all purposes). The term 'deed' is common to signed, written agreements that have been shown to all concerned parties. Strictly speaking, it is not a contract because it binds only one party and expresses an intention instead of a promise. 'Poll' is an old legal term referring to official documents that had cut edges (were polled) so that they were straight.\n\nPeople whose births are registered in England and Wales may have their deed poll enrolled at the Royal Courts of Justice in London. See also College of Arms#Change of names.\n\nFrom the mediaeval age to the 19th century, the era of family dynasties, name changes were frequently demanded of heirs in the last wills and testaments, legacies and bequests, of members of the gentry and nobility who were the last males of their bloodline. Such persons frequently selected a younger nephew or cousin as the heir to their estates on condition that he should adopt the surname and armorials of the legator in lieu of his patronymic. Thus the ancient family otherwise destined to extinction would appear to continue as a great dynasty in the making. Such changes were also more rarely demanded by marriage settlements, for example where the father of a sole daughter and heiress demanded that as a condition of his daughter's dowry her husband should adopt his father-in-law's surname and arms. Thus the progeny of the marriage would continue the otherwise extinct family's name. Such name changes were generally only demanded of younger sons, where an elder brother was available to inherit the paternal estates under primogeniture and carry on the name and arms abandoned by the younger brother. Such name changes were effected by obtaining a private Act of Parliament or by obtaining a Royal Licence. A less radical procedure adopted from the 18th century onwards was for the legator or settlor to demand only that the legatee or beneficiary should adopt his surname \"in addition to\" his patronymic, not in place of it, which gave rise to the \"double-barrelled\", even the \"triple-barrelled\" name, frequently parodied in literature as epitomising the wealthy \"squirearchy\" with an embarrassment of inherited estates.\n\nWell known examples are:\n\nPeople whose births are registered in Scotland (or who were adopted in Scotland) can change their name in the same way as people from the rest of the United Kingdom. However they can optionally apply to the Registrar General for Scotland to have their birth certificate amended to show the new name and have the respective register updated.\n\nIndividuals may legally change their name through the state and territory governments of Australia according to state or territory laws and regulations via agencies generally titled \"Registry of Births, Deaths and Marriages\". Exceptions exist for some states such as restricted persons (e.g. jail inmate) and in some states, changes may only be made once a year.\n\nInstitutions such as banks, the Passports Office and transport authorities require proof of identity, so people who change their names need to have proof of the change.\n\nIf a person's birth or adoption was registered in Australia, the change will also be noted (in most cases) on the person's birth or adoption registration, and in some states or territories, the name change can be evidenced either through a re-issued birth certificate if born in Australia and/or \"Change of Name Certificate\". These certificates are recognised secure identity documents and can be verified electronically through the Attorney-general of Australia's Document Verification Service.\nIn Canada a person can informally call themselves whatever they want. In all provinces except Quebec, when someone gets married they can change their last name without legally changing their name by using their Marriage Certificate as verification of the name change. It is almost impossible for married women in Québec to take their husbands' names.\nLike the United States, the requirements for a formal name change varies from province to province. Except for Ontario, British Columbia and New Brunswick, Canadians must be 18 to change their names and have lived in the province they are changing it in for at least 3 months to a year, depending on province. (In British Columbia, Canadians must be 19 to change their names, in Ontario and New Brunswick 16.) People younger than the province's age of majority can change their names if they have their guardians' consent, are legally married, or have a common law marriage. To change a name, a Name Change application must be submitted to either the Ministry of Government Services, Court of justice or Registrar of civil status. A document such as a birth certificate must be submitted. A statement as to why the name is being changed is needed in most areas and the reason has to be serious. In Canada, a name cannot cause confusion, be used for misrepresentation or fraud and in most cases the name change is announced in newspapers. There is a fee involved and it ranges from $10 to $185 depending on the territory or province. British Columbia, Alberta and Manitoba need fingerprints to be submitted before one changes their name.\n\nIt is a common practice for ethnic Chinese residents of Hong Kong to adopt a western-style English name in addition to their transliterated Chinese name. As they often adopt western-style English names after being registered on the birth register, the fact that they want to include a western-style English name as part of their legal English name is regarded as a name change which usually requires a deed poll.\n\nHowever, the Immigration Department which is responsible for processing applications for name change allows applicants to submit such applications without deeds poll; anyone who has a phonetic English name only and wishes to include a western-style English name as part of his or her legal English name can apply to the Immigration Department without a deed poll. Only one application of this kind is allowed for each applicant; any application for subsequent change(s) must be made with a deed poll.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, a person earns their name by \"use and repute\". For most purposes it is enough to simply use the desired name and ask others to call you by that name. For some administrative purposes, such as changing a name on a driving licence or legally changing gender, a deed of change of name must be registered with the Four Courts.\n\nFrom September 1995, New Zealanders can change their name by making a statutory declaration and, if approved, the new name is registered with the Births, Deaths and Marriages section of the Department of Internal Affairs (Identity Services). Prior to September 1995, they changed their name by deed poll.\n\nIn general, unlike in common law countries, names cannot be changed at will in civil law jurisdictions. Usually, a name change requires government approval and is only rarely granted, though legal name changes have become more common in some jurisdictions over the last years. The reason given for this system is usually the public interest in the unique identifiability of a person, e.g., in governmental registers, although with the advent of personal identification numbers, that rationale may be in need of reconsideration.\n\nIn Belgian law, a name is in principle considered fixed for life, but under exceptional circumstances, a person may apply to the Ministry of Justice for a name change. This requires a Royal Decree (French: \"Arrêté royal\", Dutch: \"Koninklijk besluit\") for last names, but only a Ministerial Decree for first names. The new name must not cause confusion or cause damage to the bearer or others. Examples of requests that are usually considered favorably:\n\nAccording to the Brazilian Civil Code and the Public Registries Act, the name registered after birth is definitive and immutable. However, there are some circumstances under which a name change is allowed: \n\nIn India, the person concerned submits a name change request to an appropriate authority, with supporting documents. Subsequently, an application must be made to the Government Printing Press, which issues an Official Gazette Notification certifying the change of name.\n\nAlthough it has always been relatively easy to change one's legal names in Norway, it used to require some kind of government approval. As late as 1830, local vicars were instructed to write both given (Christian) names, as well as last names, in the baptismal record. Earlier, only the given name of the child, birth date, baptismal date, and sex were written down, alongside the parents' names. It was not until the beginning of the 20th century, however, that the authorities required everyone to adopt a family surname. Until about 1980, the government still required that a name change applicant apply to the government regional representative (fylkesmann). The law has been replaced twice since then. Nowadays, the process is as easy as in common-law countries; the subject merely submits the names wanted (providing that the surname chosen is not in use or is not used by fewer than 200 persons) to the local authorities for the purposes of election rosters and census counts; there is no longer an application process.\n\n2001 RA 9048 amends Articles 376 and 412 of the Civil Code of the Philippines, which prohibit the change of name or surname of a person, or any correction or change of entry in a civil register without a judicial order. Administrative Order No. 1 Series of 2001, implemented the law. It authorizes the city or municipal civil registrar or the consul general to correct a clerical or typographical error in an entry or change the first name or nickname in the civil register without need of a judicial order.\n\nIn case of controversial and substantial changes, Philippines jurisprudence requires full-blown court lawsuit, that must include the local civil registrar in the petition, since RA 9048 and Rule 108 (Cancellation or correction of entries in the Civil Registry) of the Rules of Court do not allow the change of sex in a birth certificate.\n\nThe only landmark case in the Philippines on name and legal sex change is the Jeff Cagandahan case. The Supreme Court of the Philippines Justice Leonardo Quisumbing on September 12, 2008, allowed Cagandahan, 27, who has congenital adrenal hyperplasia, to change his birth certificate name from Jennifer to Jeff, and his legal gender from female to male.\n\nAlthough as in other jurisdictions residents of Quebec may informally use whatever name they want, procedures for formal name change are very strict as Quebec (unlike the rest of Canada) operates under a civil law system. The decision must be authorized by the Director of Civil Status, and requires a valid reason for changing the name, including long-term use of the new name (in the Montreuil case cited below, the Quebec appeals court has considered five years' use to be a sufficient reason), difficulty of use due to spelling or pronunciation, or bearing a name that another person has made infamous.\n\nOnly a judge may authorize a name change for a child for reasons of abandonment, deprivation of parental authority, or change in filiation such as adoption.\n\nThis has occasionally led to controversy. A lawyer named Micheline Montreuil, a non-operative transgender woman, had to undergo a lengthy process to have her name legally changed. Initially, the director of civil status refused to permit the change on the grounds that a legal male could not bear a female name. According to Quebec law, Montreuil could not change her record of sex because this requires proof of a completed sex reassignment surgery, which she has not had. On November 1, 1999, the provincial court of appeal ruled that nothing in the law prevented a person who was legally male from legally adopting a woman's name. (Montreuil was initially prevented from changing her name despite this ruling on the grounds that she had not established general use, as normally required for a name change; the Quebec appeals court finally authorized the change on November 7, 2002.)\n\nThe Director of Civil Status will amend a Quebec birth certificate if a name change certificate is issued by another province. Some have used that loophole by temporarily moving to one of Canada's other provinces, which follow the more permissive common-law rules, in order to get the legal documents.\n\nSouth Africa, which uses a mixture of common law and civil Roman Dutch law, mostly uses common-law procedures with regard to name change. Name changes in South Africa are regulated by the Births and Deaths Registration Act (Act 51 of 1992, as amended). The personal information of all citizens and permanent residents is recorded on the Population Register, so any name changes must be registered.\n\nA person can change their forenames by submitting a form to the Department of Home Affairs. An individual's surname, or that of a family, may be changed by applying to the Department and providing a \"good and sufficient reason\" for the change.\n\nA married woman can change her surname to that of her husband or join her maiden name with her husband's surname, and a divorced woman may return to her previous surname, without applying or paying a fee; but she must notify the department so that the details in the Population Register can be changed. (It is possible that, if challenged, these provisions might be held to be unconstitutional because they apply only to women.)\n\nSouth Africa has officially recognized same sex marriages since 2006 and in doing so now allows one or both partners to change their surnames in the marriage register on the day of the marriage. A new passport and ID book can then be applied for with the new married surname as well.\n\nThe surnames of minor children can also be changed under various circumstances involving the marriage, divorce or death of a parent, children born out of wedlock, and guardianship.\n\nIn Switzerland, a name change requires the approval of the respective Cantonal government, if there are important reasons (\"wichtige Gründe\" / \"justes motifs\") for the change, according to article 30 of the Swiss Civil Code. When aliens apply for naturalization, they have the option of asking for their names to be changed upon the grants of citizenship with no additional fees. According to the case law of the Swiss Federal Supreme Court, such requests must be granted only if the petitioner shows that they suffer substantially from their present name, e.g., if it is the same as that of a notorious criminal.\n\nIn Taiwan, the government strictly regulates when one's surname, given name or both may or may not be changed, under the Name Act (姓名條例) since 1953 with 10 articles, totally amended into 14 articles in 2001, and the (姓名條例施行細則).\n\nLegally permitted reasons to change one's given name are:\n\nAdherents of various religions change their name upon conversion or confirmation. The name adopted may not have any legal status but will represent their adopted religious beliefs.\n\n\n\nThere is no formal concept of conversion in Hinduism but converts to Hinduism are accepted, usually after a small ceremony called Shudhikaran (purification). Individuals who attend a Shudhikaran ceremony to officially become Hindu may be optionally given a new Dharma (religious) name, which is usually based on Sanskrit or Indian name such as names based on Hindu deities.\n\nThe last name cannot be changed in such a way as to reflect a heritage that is not that of one's biological father.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2045498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2045498", "title": "Napier Commission", "text": "Napier Commission\n\nThe Napier Commission, officially the Royal Commission of Inquiry into the Condition of Crofters and Cottars in the Highlands and Islands was a royal commission and public inquiry into the condition of crofters and cottars in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland.\n\nThe commission was appointed in 1883, with Francis Napier, 10th Lord Napier, as its chairman, under William Gladstone's Liberal government of the United Kingdom. The Royal Commission had five other members and published its report, the \"Report of Her Majesty's Commissioners of Inquiry Into the Condition of the Crofters and Cottars in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland\", in 1884. The other members were:\n\nThe Commission was a response to crofter and cottar agitation in the Highlands of Scotland. The agitation was about excessively high rents, lack of security of tenure and deprivation of de facto rights of access to land. It took the form of rent strikes (withholding rent payments) and what came to be known as land raids (crofter occupation of land which landlords had given over to sheep farming and to hunting parks called deer forests). \"Crofters' War\" has been used since as a name for this agitation.\n\nIn the 1870s there had been sporadic short-lived agitations in Wester Ross and Lewis (then both in the county of Ross). In the early 1880s agitation began in Skye (then in the county of Inverness) and there it became persistent and threatened to spread throughout the Hebrides and the Highlands. Police forces attempted to enforce what landlords believed to be their rights, but the police were severely overstretched, especially in Inverness-shire, where William Ivory was Sheriff Principal. Agitation became therefore an issue needing the attention of central government and, eventually, Gladstone's government appointed the Napier Commission.\n\nAbout three years after the Commission's appointment the Crofters' Holdings (Scotland) Act, 1886 would be on the statute book. The Act was not based on the recommendations of the Commission, but the process by which the Commission collected evidence, and the Commission's report, did foster and inform the public, Parliamentary and Cabinet debate which led, eventually to the legislation. The legislation was based on principles accepted in the Irish Land Acts of 1870 and 1881, principles which Napier had implicitly rejected in 1884.\n\nAppointments to the Commission were made by the Home Secretary, Sir William Harcourt. In Napier himself the Commission had an amateur historian and anthropologist. In Nicolson and Mackinnon it had two members with good knowledge of Gaelic. Cameron and MacKenzie were obviously landlords, and Frazer-Mackintosh was an antiquarian who, as an MP, had made himself known as someone who was sympathetic to the crofters' cause. \n\nThe terms \"crofter\", \"cottar\" and \"Highlands and Islands\" all lacked clear definition, and the Commission was left to use its own judgement as when, where and from whom to take evidence. Napier was reluctant to include Caithness, which he regarded as '\"not inhabited by the Celtic race\". The Commission was aware however that the government wanted a fairly early report, rather than an exhaustive inquiry, in the hope that this itself would help to quell crofter agitation.\n\nThe Commission began its work in the Hebrides, where rent strikes and land raids were most prevalent. It took evidence from crofters, landlords and others, and it moved on to tour much of what is now regarded as the Highlands and Islands area. Evidence from crofters exhibited remarkably consistent rhetoric, and there were accusations of coaching from the Highland Land League. Equally there were accusations that any crofter daring to give evidence risked being singled out for reprisals from landlords.\n\nThe Commission was far from unanimous in its report. Many of the recommendations were those of Napier alone. For tenants whose holdings had rental values of more than £6 a year he proposed security of tenure in 30-year \"improving leases\" and \"township organisation\". For tenants whose holdings fell below the £6-a-year threshold he recommended voluntary assisted emigration. \"Improving lease\" means a lease which includes a programme of improvement for the holding. \"Townships\" were conceived as re-establishing communal management of grazing land.\n\nPublication of the report did bring some calm to the situation in the Highlands, but this was very short lived.\n\n"}
{"id": "2704464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2704464", "title": "Necessity (tort)", "text": "Necessity (tort)\n\nIn tort common law, the defense of necessity gives the state or an individual a privilege to take or use the property of another. A defendant typically invokes the defense of necessity only against the intentional torts of trespass to chattels, trespass to land, or conversion. The Latin phrase from common law is \"necessitas inducit privilegium quod jura privata\" (\"Necessity induces a privilege because of a private right\"). A court will grant this privilege to a trespasser when the risk of harm to an individual or society is apparently and reasonably greater than the harm to the property. Unlike the privilege of self-defense, those who are harmed by individuals invoking the necessity privilege are usually free from any wrongdoing. Generally, an individual invoking this privilege is obligated to pay any actual damages caused in the use of the property but not punitive or nominal damages.\n\nPrivate necessity is the use of another's property for private reasons. Well established doctrines in common law prevent a property owner from using force against an individual in a situation where the privilege of necessity would apply. While an individual may have a private necessity to use the land or property of another, that individual must compensate the owner for any damages caused. For example:\n\nIn American law, the case most often cited to explain the privilege of private necessity is \"Vincent v. Lake Erie Transp. Co.\", 109 Minn. 456, 124 N.W. 221 (1910).\n\n\nTo invoke the private necessity privilege, the defendant must have been actually threatened or have reasonably thought that a significant harm were about to occur. The ruling in \"Vincent v. Lake Erie\" assures private citizens from a public policy stand point that they will be compensated for their loss. Vincent will be compensated for repairs and Lake Erie can rest assured that their ship will not sink.\n\nPublic necessity is the use of private property by a public official for a public reason. The potential harm to society necessitates the destruction or use of private property for the greater good. The injured, private individual does not always recover for the damage caused by the necessity. In American law, two conflicting cases illustrate this point: \"Surocco v. Geary\", 3 Cal. 69 (1853) and \"Wegner v. Milwaukee Mutual Ins. Co.\" 479 N.W.2d 38 (Minn 1991).\n\n\nThe decision in \"Surocco v. Geary\" differs from the private necessity doctrine that a trespasser must compensate a property owner for any damage she may cause. The next case coincides with the private necessity doctrine and shows that American courts are conflicted on the issue of compensation for damage.\n\n\nIt is an issue of public policy to determine if either private individuals or the public at large through taxes should bear the loss for damages caused through public necessity. \"Wegner v. Milwaukee\" allocates the loss that benefits the public to the public rather than to Wegner, the innocent citizen. Cases with similar facts to \"Wegner\" have used the public necessity doctrine under \"Surocco\", and the individual must bear the cost of the greater public good. Courts determine this issue as a matter of public policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "293872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293872", "title": "Notice of proposed rulemaking", "text": "Notice of proposed rulemaking\n\nA notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) is a public notice issued by law when one of the independent agencies of the United States government wishes to add, remove, or change a rule or regulation as part of the rulemaking process. It is an important part of United States administrative law which facilitates government by typically creating a process of taking of public comment. This nomenclature is also utilized at the state level.\n\nEquivalent procedures are also used outside the United States for a document giving public notice of a proposed rule change and inviting informed comment on it. The European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) publishes similar notices referred to a notice of proposed amendment when seeking public comment. \n\nNPRM procedure is required and defined by the Administrative Procedure Act. The Constitution does not require NPRM. Rather, Congress created the requirement to enlighten agencies — that is, to force them to listen to comments and concerns of people whom the regulation will likely affect. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Federal Communications Commission (FCC), National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), and United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are examples of agencies subject to these procedures.\n\nThe NPRM is published in the Federal Register and typically gives 60 days for public comment from any interested party, and an additional 30 days for reply comments. Original comments may still be filed in the reply comments window. While this is the normal method of agency rulemaking, emergency rulemaking is allowed to bypass the NPRM process. A notice is not required to be published in the Federal Register if all persons subject to it are named and are personally served with a copy of it.\n\nEach notice, whether published in the Federal Register or personally served, includes:\n\nNPRMs are often preceded by a notice of inquiry (NOI), where comments are invited but no rules have yet been proposed. Comments received in this period allow the agency to better prepare the NPRM by making more-informed decisions on proposals. An NPRM may be followed by a further notice of proposed rulemaking (FNPRM), if the comments from the initial NPRM lead the agency to drastically change the proposal to the point where further comment is required. Rules are finalized when a report and order (R&O) is issued, which may be amended with a second R&O (or more) in a continuing proceeding (such as the DTV transition in the United States).\n\nRegulations.gov is a website established in 2002 to provide better access to rulemaking. It allows comments to be posted to nearly 300 federal agencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262823", "title": "Operation Safehaven", "text": "Operation Safehaven\n\nOperation Safehaven was a fifteen-month investigation conducted by the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (\"ICE\") in conjunction with the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Connecticut and the Department of Justice against those affiliated with the warez scene.\n\nIn April 2003, over twenty search warrants were simultaneously executed, resulting in the seizure of dozens of computers and file servers, including what the United States government reported as \"the largest warez site ever seized in the United States to date.\"\n\nU.S. v. Myers et al. (D. Conn.)\n\nTravis Myers, 29, of Yakima, Washington; Terry Katz, 26, of Yorktown Heights, New York; Walter Kapechuk, 55, of Schenectady, New York; and Warren Willsey, 53, of East Berne, New York, all waived indictment and pleaded guilty to charges of Conspiracy to Commit Criminal Copyright Infringement on October 2, 2003. These were the first convictions stemming from the operation. Myers admitted to being a courier and a member of several leading warez groups, including \"DrinkOrDie.\" Katz admitted to being a site operator. Kapechuk admitted to running a site at SUNY Albany. Willsey admitted to assisting Kapechuk. All but Willsey faced maximum sentences of five years. Willsey faced a maximum sentence of one year.\n\nU.S. v. Singh (D. Conn.)\n\nManpreet Singh, 22, of Middleburg Heights, Ohio, pleaded guilty to the charge of conspiracy to commit criminal copyright infringement on February 20, 2004. He admitted to being a courier for the groups \"We Love Warez\" (\"WLW\") and \"pHASE.\" The maximum sentence is five years in prison. He was scheduled to be sentenced in May, 2004.\n\nU.S. v. Perello (E.D. Tex.)\n\nPleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy to commit criminal copyright infringement on November 21, 2005.\n\nU.S. v. Pine (D. Conn.)\n\nPleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy to commit criminal copyright infringement on November 22, 2005.\n\nU.S. v. Brink (D. Me.)\n\nKurt M. Brink, 25, of Portland, Maine, pleaded guilty on September 8, 2005 to conspiring to commit criminal copyright infringement. Sentenced to three years of probation, ordered to perform 300 hours of community service, and to pay a fine in the amount of $6,000 on December 12, 2005.\n\nU.S. v. Carter (N.D. Cal.)\n\nPleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy to commit criminal copyright infringement on December 12, 2005.\n\nU.S. v. Szoke (D. Conn.)\n\nCarole Szoke, 62, of Nazareth, Pennsylvania, pleaded guilty on September 27, 2005. Sentenced to three years of probation, ordered to perform 312 hours of community service, and to pay a fine in the amount of $2,000 on December 22, 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "53680669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53680669", "title": "Peter Jacobs (landscape architect)", "text": "Peter Jacobs (landscape architect)\n\nPeter Jacobs (born 3 December 1939) is a Canadian landscape architect specializing in the conservation and development of rural and northern landscapes and in urban landscape design. He is Emeritus professor of the School of Planning and Landscape Architecture of the Universite de Montreal, Emeritus Chair of the Commission on Environmental Planning of the International Union for the conservation of nature (IUCN), Past President of the Canadian Society of Landscape Architects (CSLA), Chair of the Kativik Environmental Quality Commission (from 1979) and a Member of the Royal Canadian Academy of the Arts.\n\nJacobs was born in Montreal on 3 December 1939. His parents were both natives of New York City: Jacob Joseph Jacobs graduated from New York University as a chemical engineer and Francis Alexander graduated from Barnard College in ancient languages. His interest in nature and the landscape was nurtured during summer family trips to the ocean and others in the northern boreal forest. His commitment to the urban landscape was derived from his experience of the cultural diversity and convivial social energy of Montreal. He is married to Ellen Vineberg Jacobs, distinguished professor emerita of Concordia University in Montreal.\n\nJacobs graduated from Antioch College with a bachelor's degree (1961) in engineering and fine arts. He continued his studies at the Harvard Graduate School of Design, where he obtained a Masters of Architecture degree (1964) followed by a Master of Landscape Architecture degree (1968). He then pursued a program of special studies in human ecology at Dalhousie University, Nova Scotia.\n\nFollowing his studies, Jacobs pursued both an academic and professional career. After first practicing architecture, he concentrated on landscape planning and urban design. In 1971 he was promoted to associate professor and in 1979 to full professor in the School of Landscape Architecture, Universite de Montreal. He was the school's first director (1978) and the first associate dean of research of the Faculte de l’Amenagement (1977–1984). He was named Emeritus professor in 2016.\n\nPeter Jacobs is Fellow and past president of the Canadian Society of Landscape Architects (CSLA) (1978–1980), Fellow of the American Society of Landscape Architects (ASLA), and served as the Canadian delegate to the International Federation of Landscape Architects (IFLA) (1986–1995). In 2016, he was named Chair of the Montreal Heritage Council.\n\nJcobs' teaching is based on the structure and meaning of the urban and rural landscape as well as the use of criteria such as belonging, equity, and integrity in the design of landscape form. Due to his expertise, Peter Jacobs has been invited to evaluate numerous academic programs in Canada, Israel, Columbia, France, China and Spain. He has also given intensive courses and design studios in more than 50 universities around the world.\n\nHis research and community activities have focused on the sustainable and equitable development and conservation of the landscape in association with the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), with the Kativik Environmental Quality Commission as Chair of the Commission (KEQC) since 1979, and as Chair of the Public Advisory Council for the Canadian State of the Environment Report (1991).\n\nJacobs was one of the early participants in a variety of environmental evaluation formats related to urban development and the North, both as a chair and a member of numerous public commissions. He chaired the public consultation process on the future of Lancaster Sound in the Canadian arctic (1980) and has Chaired the Kativik Environmental Quality Commission in Nunavik (since 1981). He also co-Chaired the public hearings related to the environmental impacts of the Great Whale Hydoelectric Project flowing into James Bay, Quebec (1992–1994).\n\nIn the urban context, he has participated as a commissioner for the Bureau de consultation de Montreal and the Office de consultation Publique de Montreal on files related to the development of urban neighborhoods, urban infrastructure, and the planning and design of large metropolitan parks and nature reserves.\n\nIn 1990, as a member of the Canadian Environmental Assessment Research Council (CEARC), he co-edited and was one of the chief architects of a research report on \"Sustainable Development and Environmental Assessment : Perspectives on Planning for a Common Future\". Internationally, he has served as a consultant for programs sponsored by UNESCO, MAB, UNU, and IUCN.\n\nOne of the principal research fields developed by Jacobs is linked to the impact of culture and cultural values to the perception and management of landscapes. Numerous international missions in Africa, Latin America, Australia, and Europe as well as the arctic landscapes of Northern Quebec have provided a rich array of conditions and experiences that contribute to a diversity of cultural perspectives as to how the landscape is perceived and managed.\n\nHis prolonged research visits to Dumbarton Oaks as chair of the Senior Fellows of the Landscape and Garden Studies program and subsequently as Beatrix Farrand Distinguished Fellow provided further material with which to evaluate the diverse cultural visions of the landscape.\n\nJacobs' commitment to the community is marked by his desire to integrate professional practice with academic research in the service of community growth and development. As chair of the Environmental Planning Commission from 1978–1990, he helped formulate nature conservation programs and action plans for numerous countries. His environmental activities have focused on nature conservancy, the preservation of urban open space, and the development of policy, programs, and plans in support of equitable and sustainable development.\n\nHe has served as vice-president of the Solomon Schecter Academy (1973–1976), advisor to the Society for the Protection of Nature in Israel, member of the intercultural advisory committee of the City of Montreal, and president of the Jewish Public Library of Montreal(1996–2000) He has also served as Chair of the community planning and allocations committee and as a Director of the Federation of Jewish Community Agencies, the United Israel Agencies of Canada and the Canadian Jewish National Fund.\n\nThis list comes from the research portal of the Université de Montréal\n\nThis list comes from the research portal of the Université de Montréal\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "99232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99232", "title": "Political movement", "text": "Political movement\n\nIn the social sciences, a political movement is a social group that operates together to obtain a political goal, on a local, regional, national, or international scope. Political movements develop, coordinate, promulgate, revise, amend, interpret, and produce materials that are intended to address the goals of the base of the movement. A social movement in the area of politics can be organized around a single issue or set of issues, or around a set of shared concerns of a social group. In a political party, a political organization seeks to influence, or control, government policy, usually by nominating their candidates and seating candidates in politics and governmental offices. Additionally, parties participate in electoral campaigns and educational outreach or protest actions aiming to convince citizens or governments to take action on the issues and concerns which are the focus of the movement. Parties often espouse an ideology, expressed in a party program, bolstered by a written platform with specific goals, forming a [coalition] among disparate interests.\n\nSome political movements have aimed to change government policy, such as the anti-war movement, the ecology movement, and the anti-globalization movement. Many have aimed to establish or broaden the rights of subordinate groups, such as abolitionism, the women's suffrage movement, the civil rights movement, feminism, gay rights movement, the disability rights movement, or the inclusive human rights movement. Some have represented class interests, such as the Labour movement, socialism, and communism, others have expressed national aspirations, such as anticolonialist movements, Ratana, Zionism, and Sinn Féin. Political movements can also involve struggles to decentralize or centralize state control, as in anarchism, fascism, and Nazism.\n\nWith globalization, global citizens movements may have emerged.\n\nMovements may be named by outsiders, as with the levellers political movement in 17th century England was so named as a term of disparagement. Yet admirers of the movement and its aims later came to use the term, and it is the term by which they are known to history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24231500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24231500", "title": "Postgraduate Certificate Program in Art Crime and Cultural Heritage Protection", "text": "Postgraduate Certificate Program in Art Crime and Cultural Heritage Protection\n\nARCA's P ostgraduate Certificate Program in Art Crime and Cultural Heritage Protection is a multidisciplinary postgraduate certificate program that specializes in the study of art crime and cultural property protection. The course programming consists of 10–11 weeks of academic instruction at the postgraduate level and is hosted in Amelia, Italy. The instruction covers a wide variety of theoretical and practical elements of art and heritage crime and examines art crime's interconnected world of art criminals, investigators, lawyers and art historians. The courses include comprehensive lectures and discussions exploring art crime, its nature and impact, as well as what is currently being done to mitigate it.\n\nThe program includes approximately 25 lecture hours per week of customized instruction over the course of one summer for a total of approximately 250 contact hours with teaching professionals. This format allows students to complete the classroom portion of the program onsite, before writing their thesis remotely. ARCA selected this configuration to facilitate both student and allied professional enrollment, to ensure that both groups might undertake the program of study during one summer between academic advanced degrees or during a brief sabbatical or hiatus from work.\n\nIt should be noted that this program is currently being run under the auspices of the association and is considered a professional development program and not a Masters. While the courses comprising the Postgraduate Certificate Program may be used as evidence in support of a student's application for admission to a graduate degree program, the certificate itself is not considered to be a prerequisite nor does it not guarantee admission into a graduate study program.\nPrerequisites for this program require that applicants have completed an undergraduate degree by the start date of the program. The program has run each summer since 2009.\n\nRecent instructors and lecturers have included:\n\nChair of the International Advisory Board of the Australian Research Council's Center of Excellence in Policing and Security, Former Director of the Australian Institute of Criminology (1987-1994)\n\nCourses are supplemented with field classes and guest lecturers. Contingent on available funding ARCA also invites distinguished novelists, journalists and essayists to participate in ARCA's Writers-in-Residence program in year, held in conjunction with the Postgraduate Certificate Program.\n\nPast Writers-in-Residence include Christos Tsirogiannis Forensic Archaeologist, Illicit antiquities researcher, Dr. Susan Douglas, University of Guelph, Art History Department, Dr. Laurie Rush, who has assisted in training armed forces in safeguarding cultural heritage during armed conflict; Dr. Neil Brodie, noted archaeologist and researcher into the illicit antiquities trade; as well as Dr. Larry Rothfield, cofounder and former director of the Cultural Policy Center at the University of Chicago, and author of the book, The Rape of Mesopotamia, a detailed study of the looting of the Baghdad Museum and the protection of antiquities during conflict.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6749591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6749591", "title": "Priest–penitent privilege in France", "text": "Priest–penitent privilege in France\n\nPriest–penitent privilege in France and the western portion of Europe received public recognition at a very early date owing to the perceived sacredness of the Seal of the Confessional.\n\nAmong the Capitularies of Charlemagne, the first capitulary of the year 813 demands:\n\nThe \"Austria\" here referred to is the eastern part of the old Western Empire, then called Austria.\n\nIn France it was an established principle not only that a confessor could not be examined in a court of justice as to matters revealed to him in confession, but that admissions made in confession, if disclosed, might not be received or acted upon by the court and would not be evidence. Merlin and Guyot, distinguished writers on French jurisprudence, cite a decree of the Parliament of Normandy deciding the principle and laying down that a person charged upon the evidence of a confession cannot be convicted and must be discharged. They cite decrees of other Parliaments laying down the sacredness of the seal of confession. Among others, they cite a decree of the Parliament of Paris in 1580, that a confessor could not be compelled to disclose the accomplices of a certain criminal, whose names the criminal had confessed to him when going to the scaffold. These decrees were judicial. The appellant's counsel in the Quebec case of \"Gill v. Bouchard\", yields much valuable information on the French law upon the subject. In that argument there is cited a decree by the Parliament of Flanders in 1776 declaring that the evidence of a witness who repeated a confession which he had overheard was not admissible, and reversing the judgment which had been passed on the admission of such evidence.\n\nCharles Muteau, another distinguished French jurist, speaks in clear and emphatic terms of the sacredness of the seal, citing, also, various instances in proof. He tells us in a foot-note of a certain Marquise de Brinvilliers, among whose papers, after she had been arrested, was found a general confession (apparently made in pursuance of religious discipline) accusing herself of an attempt to murder various members of her family. The court trying her, he says, absolutely ignored this confession: Muteau gives us a quotation from rodius in Pandect f.73, in which rodius says:\n\nIn \"Bonino's Case\", which is cited in the course of the appellant's argument in \"Gill v. Bouchard\" as having been decided by the Court of Cassation of Turin (at that time part of the French Empire) in February 1810, and as being reported in the \"Journal du Palais périodique\", VIII, 667, the court is reported to have decided that an open avowal made by a penitent in consequence of his being counselled in confession to make such avowal ought not to be received in evidence against him.\n\nMerlin and Muteau tell us that formerly the breach of the seal by a priest was punishable with death. Guyot says that canonists are not agreed as to whether the breach is an offence recognizable by the civil courts [\"si c'est un délit commun ou un cas royal\"], but that several canonists maintain that the civil judges ought to have cognizance of it. This appears to be his own view because the breach is a grave crime against religion and society, a public scandal, and a sacrilege. He cites, however, a decree of the Parliament of Toulouse of 16 February 1679, deciding that the cognizance of the offence belonged to the ecclesiastical judge.\n\nAll these three writers except from the general inviolability of the seal the single case of high treason, that is, an offence against the person of the king or against the safety of the State. Merlin and Guyot, appear to base their authority for this exception on a statement by Laurent Bouchel (1559–1629), a distinguished French advocate who practised before the French Parliament. He was also an expert in canon law and he wrote a work on the Decrees of the Gallican Church. They cite Bouchel as stating that:\n\nIt is to be noticed that this statement by Bouchel, as cited by Merlin and Guyot, does not mention any decree or decision or any other authority supporting it. Muteau, in excepting high treason, appears to base the exception mainly upon a decree of Louis XI, of 22 December 1477, enjoining \"upon all persons whatsoever\" to denounce certain crimes against the safety of the State and the person of the king which might come to their knowledge. He says that the theologians have invariably maintained that confessors were not included among persons bound to reveal high treason. Muteau points out, also, that the Inquisition itself uniformly laid down that \"never, in no interest,\" should the seal of confession be violated.\n\nDésiré Dalloz in his learned and comprehensive work on jurisprudence, in which the whole of French law is compiled and commented on under the numerous subjects affected by it, says that as the laws of France (his work was published in 1853, when he was an advocate practising at the imperial Court of Paris) protect the rules of ecclesiastical discipline, they could not exact from the clergyman, in breach of these rules, the disclosure of secrets revealed to him in the exercise of his ministry. Citing the canon of the Fourth Lateran Council enjoining the secrecy of the seal, which, he tells us, only reproduces an older rule going back to the year 600, he observes that the inviolability declared by it is absolute and without distinction.\n\nThe decision of the Court of Cassation in \"Laveine's Case\" (30 November 1810, \"Recueil général des lois et des arrêts\", XI, i, 49) affords support, not by the actual decision, but by certain words used in it, to the contention for the exception of high treason, while the actual decision is commonly cited as one of the leading judicial authorities for the general principle of the immunity of the confessor. It was a case in which restitution had been made by a thief through a priest outside confession, the thief, however, stating at the time that he regarded the conversation as being to his confessor and as made under the seal of confession, to which the priest assented. The court of first instance held that only a communication received in sacramental confession would be privileged and that, therefore, the priest was bound in this case to disclose the name of the thief. The Court of Cassation reversed this decision. Its judgment commences with a reference to the existence of the Concordat of 1801 and to the result that the Catholic religion is placed under the protection of the State, and it goes on to say that a confessor may not be ordered to disclose secret communications made to him in the exercise of his calling, \"excepting those cases which appertain directly to the safety of the State\" [\"hors les cas qui tiennent immédiatement à la sûreté de l'état\"]. Commenting on these words, Dalloz says that the jurist, Jean Marie Emmanuel Legraverend (1776–1827), admits the exception. Dalloz appears not to agree with it:\n\nBy Art. 378 of the \"Code pénal impérial français\", the French Penal Code promulgated in 1810:\n\nThe exception, mentioned in the article, of persons obliged by law to be informers, as pointed out by Dalloz, became obsolete because Arts 103–107, which dealt with the obligation of informing, were repealed by the law of 28 April 1832. Dr. H. F. Rivière, counsellor to the Court of Cassation, in his edition of the French Codes (Code Pénal, p. 68) has a note to that effect. Armand Dalloz, the brother and collaborator of the author of the \"Jurisprudence générale\", says in another work:\n\nThe same writer says that the exception of the confessor is deduced from the principle of Art. 378, from the needs of the soul and, above all, from the laws which have recognized the Catholic religion. He continues:\n\nIn \"Fay's Case\" [(December 4, 1891), \"Recueil général des lois et des arrêts\", 1892, 1, 473] the Court of Cassation held that the ministers of religions legally recognized are obliged to keep secret communications made to them by reason of their functions; and that with regard to priests no distinction is made as to whether the secret is made known in confession or outside it, and the obligation of secrecy is absolute and is a matter of public policy. The annotator of the report begins his notes by saying that it is a universally admitted point that the exemption from giving evidence is necessarily extended to priests with regard to the matters confided to them in confession. He cites, among other cases, one of the Court of Cassation in Belgium declaring that there has never been any doubt that priests are not bound to disclose confessions in the witness box. The Concordat of 1801 was abrogated by the 1905 French law on the separation of Church and State. However, some terms of the Concordat are still in effect in the Alsace-Moselle region, as it was controlled by the German Empire at the time of the law's passage and today maintains a specific local law. The Catholic religion being no longer established in France under the auspices of the State, part of the grounds adduced for some of the decisions cited above cease to hold good. The 1810 Penal Code was superseded by a new Penal Code in 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "5258294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5258294", "title": "Public adjuster", "text": "Public adjuster\n\nA public adjuster is a professional claims handler/ claims adjuster who advocates for the policyholder in appraising and negotiating a claimant's insurance claim. Aside from attorneys and the broker of record, state licensed public adjusters can legally represent the rights of an insured during an insurance claim process. Their technical expertise and ability to interpret sometimes ambiguous insurance policies allow property owners to receive the maximum amount of indemnification for their claims. Although seen many times as adversarial by the Carriers, public adjusters do (almost always) substantially increase the settlement value of the loss. Many professionals, and persons who are either incapable due to education, age, or physical impairment, choose public adjuster representation to guide them through the process and minimize the time which must be spent to perfect their claim. Most public adjusters charge a percentage of the settlement like general contractors who add (10/10) to the total repair cost to cover overhead and reasonable profit. Primarily public adjusters prepare detailed scope and cost estimates many times using experts in the fields of remediation, toxicology, and construction engineers to prove their loss. Public adjusters also provide insurance policy interpretation to determine covered and uncovered items and to negotiate with the insurance Carrier to a final and fair settlement.\n\nA public adjuster is a representative of the policyholder who advises, manages, and submits a claim to the policyholder's insurance company. \n\nThere are three classes of insurance claims adjusters: staff adjusters (employed by an insurance company or self-insured entity), independent adjusters (independent contractors hired by the insurance company) and public adjusters (employed by the policyholder). \"Company\" or \"independent\" adjusters can only legally represent the rights of an insurance company.\n\nOutside the United States adjusters are commonly called (or translated into English as) \"insurance loss \"assessors\"\" (or simply \"loss assessors\") and staff adjusters or independent adjusters are called or translated as \"insurance loss \"adjusters\"\" (or simply \"loss adjusters\"). However, there is a clear distinction between a loss adjuster, who works on behalf of an insurance company, and a loss assessor who works on behalf of a policyholder.\n\nCurrently, 44 states (and the District of Columbia) have in place some form of statutory and/or regulatory scheme which licenses public adjusters. The states that do not are: Alaska, South Dakota, and Wisconsin. In addition, it is important to note that on October 14, 2005, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) adopted the Public Adjuster Licensing Model Act (MDL-228), which governs the qualifications and procedures for the licensing of public adjusters. It defines a public adjuster as \"any person who, for compensation or any other thing of value, acts on behalf of an insured\", specifies the duties of and restrictions on public adjusters, including regulations for the following: examination, bond or letter of credit, continuing education, public adjuster fees, contracts, record retention, and standards of conduct. In addition, the model act states that public adjusters may only act or aid on the benefit of the insured in first-party claims.\n\nHolding a license in one state only permits the licensed to practice in that state. Although the regulations vary from state to state, the model act states that a non-resident can obtain a license in another state if their home state allows non-residents to apply for a license on the same basis. This reciprocity agreement means that in many cases one can apply for a license in another state without having to pass that state's examination or pre-licensing education requirements. Generally, public adjusters only work with insurance claims related to property damages and the business losses that they trigger such as business income, builders' risk, mechanical and electrical breakdown, extra expense and expediting expense, and leasehold interest. Although it is uncommon for public adjusters to handle health insurance claims, in some states such as Florida they are legally authorized to handle claims in all lines of insurance except life and annuities.\n\nThe public adjuster's main responsibilities are to:\n\nTypically a policyholder hires a public adjuster to document and expedite their claims, obtain a more satisfactory claim recovery, more quickly, and completely restore their residence or business operations, and insulate themselves from the stress of engaging in an adversarial role with a large corporation. However, the cost of hiring outside experts, no matter how well-earned, can be an added burden when they are borne entirely by the policyholder. The added burden can be alleviated by the work of a public adjuster. However, policy holders who are not properly indemnified by their insurance carriers may be left with little choice but to hire professional assistance to recover the claim payment to which they are entitled.\n\nPublic adjusters must be able to recognize claims that may be insubstantial and disputable and explain such problems to the client. The everyday meanings of terms like \"collapse\", \"partial collapse\" and \"extent of physical damage\" might be entirely different from their legal interpretations, requiring the adjuster to clarify such terms for the client. Regulations regarding the uses of these terms are constantly in a state of flux so it is important for public adjusters to have a firm grasp of the law including the division of legal responsibilities between insurance companies and policyholders.\n\nMost public adjusters are paid based on a percentage of the total settlement. For example, one Georgia company states their average fee is 20% based on the type and amount of the insurance claim. However, lower percentages are used for larger losses being claimed under a policy of insurance. Higher percentages are needed for smaller claimed losses. Smaller insurance claims can have similar costs as larger claims, but because the recovery is less on smaller claims the fee range must be adjusted to compensate for the operating costs. All public adjusters are not equal in their abilities to secure policy benefits. Skills of performance can vary significantly between public adjusters ranging from basic to elite expert. Fees of 10% to 12% are ordinary and typical for claimed losses of $100,000 or greater when handled by standard-rated public adjusters. Expert-rated public adjusters get a higher fee than standard-rated adjusters. For example, an expert public adjuster can charge 12% to 15% on a loss that exceeds $100,000. However, superior experts possess capabilities to obtain the most effective results. Therefore, highly qualified adjusters can be expected to be better skilled at achieving a greater increased benefits settlement amount than an adjuster who is not an actual expert. Adjusters who are experts must be classified and registered as an expert by the judicial system. Public adjusters declaring themselves to be experts should be verified, because such notice is not always factual. For those public adjusters who proclaim to be actual experts, it's highly recommended that their credentials be validated to prove such qualifications.\n\nSome public adjusters charge a flat percentage or a flat fee set price, while others use a regressive scale. It depends, in part, on the State Law where the loss occurred. For example, a regressive scale can be 25% of the first $100,000, 15% between $100,001 and $200,000, and 10% of any amount beyond that. Claims that are less than $50,000 are considered small claim losses. There are Public Adjusters who will not service smaller claims at all, while other public adjusters charge a normal range of a 30% to 35% fee rate for insurance claims with a settlement value that is less than $50,000. Public adjusters can charge a lower fee on the total settlement value of the claim, or they can charge a higher fee on an improved settlement amount that is beyond the initial settlement originally offered by the insuring organization. For example, for a $100,000 loss, a fee can be 12% on the whole claim value, where the cost risk can be a shared expense with the client, but for a lower fee which is a benefit for the client; or alternatively, if the initial settlement was $50,000, then a public adjuster might accept a 25% fee —not on the initial $50,000― but on any additional recovery settlement referred to as \"new money\", being a partial claim value of an amount which exceeds the initial $50,000 settlement, where fees apply exclusively to only the additional amount recovered. However, this additional recovery method of \"new money only\" means that the public adjuster assumes all of the cost risk and expense, with no cost risk shared by the client, hence the higher fee. (For a claim not covered by the Policy, the public adjuster could experience a business loss from operating expenses spent on \"new money only\" claims that are limited to only improved settlement recovery services). There are public adjusters who contract for \"new money only\" services but charge fees of 40% and 50% to accept that high risk, where any improved settlement benefit, or the new money recovered, is essentially split about evenly between the public adjuster and the client. It's important to note that some states cap public adjuster fees at levels such as 10% or 20%, and some consumers opine that normal public adjuster fees are standardized, citing 10% on any claim regardless of its value. This is not accurate and cannot work. Such limitations can cause public adjusters to avoid helping consumers with smaller claims altogether when the services' costs can actually become a financial loss if not providing a fair, reasonable and necessary business earnings' margin needed by public adjuster firms in order to operate, just as with any business. Most states do not cap fees for this reason, while nearly all states welcome public adjuster services for their insuring public. Professional fees must be adequate for public adjusters to cover operating and business costs while still providing sufficient business income returns on those costs. Higher fees on smaller claims having low recovery values are necessary to provide the adequate compensation that a public adjuster needs to accept the costs of providing full services. \n\nRegardless of the fee structure, the public adjuster professional fee will more likely be offset by an increase in the settlement amount on a covered claim. In many jurisdictions, the fee structure must be disclosed up front. It is important to note that a public adjuster cannot obtain more than the policyholder is legitimately entitled to, but public adjusters ―especially experts― generally recover a better financial settlement benefit than the fees charged to their clients, thereby leaving their clients with a net financial improvement of benefits recovery after fees are paid. The indemnity promised and provided for by an insurance policy, or the full potential financial recovery value of an insurance claim, is often not obtainable without professional assistance like that which comes from a very capable public adjuster.\n\nLoss Recovery Insurance is an insurance policy devised by Lorega Ltd - which covers the cost of an independent Chartered Loss Adjuster, who acts solely on behalf of the behalf of the policyholder, in preparing, negotiating and settling an insurance claim. Insurers always have the benefit of staff or independent adjusters to act on their behalf, reducing the claim wherever possible. Loss recovery insurance helps level the playing field by providing the policyholder with independent expert advice. Lorega Limited is an Independent Underwriting Agency, based in London, with capacity from Lloyd's and the London Insurance Market, and distributes a number of assistance insurance products which provide expert help, when it is needed, to policyholders in the UK.\n\nWhile it is not always clear when a policyholder may benefit from hiring a public adjuster, the most benefit is likely to be realized if they are engaged immediately in case of a loss. Shortly after the insurance company receives notice of a loss, an adjuster representing the insurance company will visit the policyholder to gather facts about how the loss occurred, the magnitude of the loss, and the possibility of subrogation. Incorrect, incomplete or inadequately expressed answers to the adjuster's questions may reduce the amount that can be claimed. A public adjuster engaged early in the process, before the fact-finding stage, will have more opportunity to help the policyholder receive a fair settlement for all losses legitimately covered under the insurance policy. However, any time during negotiations with the insurance company and even after a settlement has been received by an insured, a public adjuster may be able to negotiate for a higher amount.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3553045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3553045", "title": "Quiet period", "text": "Quiet period\n\nIn United States securities law, the quiet period (or waiting period) has \"historically [meant], a quiet period of time extended from the time a company files a registration statement with the SEC until SEC staff declared the registration statement effective. During that period, the federal securities laws limited what information a company and related parties can release to the public.\"\n\nUnder the rules of the Securities Act of 1933, as modified June 29, 2005, electronic communications, including electronic road shows and information located on or hyperlinked to an issuer's website are also governed. The rules changes of June 29, 2005, also included various changes which \"liberalize permitted offering activity and communications to allow more information\" for certain qualifying organizations.\n\nIn business finance, a waiting period (or quiet period) is the time in which a company making an IPO must be silent about it, so as not to inflate the value of the stock artificially. It is also called the cooling-off period.\n\nDuring a Quiet Period, a publicly listed company cannot make any announcements about anything that could cause a normal investor to change their position on the company's stock. Normally, that means the company does not discuss any of the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "39781971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39781971", "title": "R (Secretary of State for the Home Department) v Immigration Appeal Tribunal and Surinder Singh", "text": "R (Secretary of State for the Home Department) v Immigration Appeal Tribunal and Surinder Singh\n\nR (Secretary of State for the Home Department) v Immigration Appeal Tribunal and Surinder Singh [1992] 3 CMLR 358 is a UK immigration law and EU law case involving the right of entry and residence into a nation state.\n\nSingh was an Indian citizen. He had married a British citizen, and the two had resided for a time in Germany before returning to live in the UK. After they returned to the UK the couple divorced, leading to the UK government removing his leave to remain. He stayed and eventually the UK government began procedures to deport him. Singh then took the case to the European Court of Justice citing EU free movement rules. Under EU law [today, Art 3(1) of the Citizens' Rights Directive], a Union citizen has the right to move to a Member State other than that of his nationality, and has the right to bring certain family members, including his non-EU national spouse, with him when he does so. \n\nIt was held that EU free movement rules overrode domestic legislation and as such Singh was entitled to remain in the UK. \n\nThis case established a precedent for British citizens to secure UK immigration rights for their non-European spouses, who are unable to join their partners because of several changes in UK immigration law aimed at reducing net migration. Through EU Regulations on Free Movement of Peoples, it provides a window of opportunity to reunite UK citizens with their spouses in the increasing number of cases where the new rules on income and other additional measures mean that such spouses of UK citizens would otherwise be separated by the requirements of increasingly strict visa controls.\n\nThe Surinder Singh route involves living and working elsewhere in the European Economic Area for a period of three or more months (there is no actual time period required by EU law but instead it is based on previous case law and its application) and then asserting the rights associated with EEA citizenship and free movement to gain access to their own country while being covered by European law.\n\nIn so doing, the Surinder Singh route triggers European rights of free movement that have otherwise been removed from UK citizens by UK legislation.\n\nIn principle, the Surinder Singh route applies to all EU citizens, not just UK citizens. For example, a French husband could bring his Mexican wife into France by exercising his treaty rights in Spain. It also applies to qualifying dependent family members as well as spouses.\n\nThere are several petitions circulating throughout the UK and to expats abroad that are asking people to fight this recent \"government clarification\" and an example is 'British people want equal rights to bring their family to the UK ' on government petition website.\n\nThe Upper Tribunal of the Asylum and Immigration Tribunal, comprising Immigration Judges Mr Haddon-Cave, J, and Mr Kopieczek have ruled that the Surinder Singh principles apply to unmarried partners (and by analogy, other members of a British returning worker's \"extended family\")- \"Kamila Santos Campelo Cain v Secretary of State for the Home Department\" (IA/40868/2013).\n\n"}
{"id": "35038117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35038117", "title": "R v Huhne", "text": "R v Huhne\n\nRegina v Christopher Huhne and Vasiliki Pryce is the prosecution of the former British Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change, Chris Huhne MP, and his former wife, Vicky Pryce, the former Head of the Government Economic Service, for perverting the course of justice, contrary to common law. Huhne became the first Cabinet minister in British history to resign as a consequence of criminal proceedings. On 4 February 2013, Huhne was convicted on the basis of his own plea after re-arraignment. The trial of Pryce began on the following day, lasting until 20 February 2013 when the jury were discharged by the judge. A re-trial began on 25 February 2013 and led to the conviction of Pryce on 7 March 2013.\n\nHuhne had been the Liberal Democrat MP for Eastleigh since 2005. On 12 May 2010 he was appointed to the cabinet office of Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change under the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition formed after the 2010 general election. In June 2010, Huhne announced that he was leaving his wife of 26 years after he confirmed that he had been having a long-term affair with a media adviser. The couple divorced in January 2011.\n\nIn May 2011, Pryce stated that she was aware that Huhne had \"pressured people to take his driving licence penalty points\". Huhne emphatically denied these allegations of perverting the course of justice, contrary to common law. Labour MP Simon Danczuk made a criminal complaint to Essex Police in respect of the allegations. The main question of fact, as alleged in the charge, was whether Huhne had caused Pryce to accept three penalty points which he had allegedly incurred while driving his BMW car through a speed camera between Stansted Airport and London on the evening of 12 March 2003. During interviews with Essex Police, Huhne exercised his right to remain silent. A decision on whether to institute proceedings for the alleged offences was delayed for eight months while the \"Sunday Times\" made an application for judicial review of an order of the Crown Court at Chelmsford that the Crown Prosecution Service had obtained, which obliged the newspaper to disclose e-mails between Pyrce and its political editor, Isabel Oakeshott, in which the case was discussed. The application was withdrawn on 20 January 2012. In December 2011, newspapers including \"The Daily Express\" reported that Essex Police had recommended to the CPS that both Huhne and Pryce ought to be prosecuted for the alleged offences.\n\nOn 3 February 2012, the Director of Public Prosecutions, Keir Starmer QC announced that there was sufficient evidence to bring charges against Huhne and Pryce. Huhne immediately resigned as Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change, becoming the first cabinet minister in British history to be forced from office as a result of criminal proceedings. They were summoned to appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court on 16 February 2012, at which, by right, neither defendant indicated a plea. They were both granted unconditional bail. The case was sent for trial at the Crown Court at Southwark, with an initial hearing fixed for 2 March 2012.\n\nThe charge against Huhne was that:\n\nThe charge against Pryce was that:\n\nOn 2 March 2012, Mr Justice Saunders scheduled a trial for two weeks in October 2012, and extended the defendants' unconditional bail until a plea and case management hearing, which was held on 1 June 2012 at the Crown Court at Southwark before Mr Justice Saunders. At that hearing, Pryce entered a plea of not guilty on the basis that she acted under the marital coercion of Huhne. Huhne did not enter a plea, and his arraignment was adjourned pending the determination of an application to have the indictment quashed. The defendants' unconditional bail was extended until the opening of the trial, scheduled for 2 October 2012. A series of hearings during the week beginning 1 October 2012 took place at the Crown Court at Southwark before Mr Justice Sweeney. An order was made under the Contempt of Court Act 1981, restricting what could be reported. On 5 October 2012, the trial was adjourned until 14 January 2013 for legal reasons, which were not disclosed. A further pre-trial hearing was held at the Crown Court at Reading on 3 December 2012. On 28 January 2013, Huhne's applications to dismiss the charges against him for lack of evidence and to stay the indictment as an abuse of the process of the court were refused by Mr Justice Sweeney, who ruled that there was a case to answer. He was arraigned and pleaded \"not guilty\" to the indictment. A new trial date was set down for 4 February 2013.\n\nThe trial judge was Mr Justice Sweeney. Counsel for Crown was Andrew Edis QC. Huhne's counsel was John Kelsey-Fry QC, while Pryce was advised by solicitor Robert Brown and counsel in the case was Julian Knowles QC.\n\nAt the hearing on 4 February 2013 at the Crown Court at Southwark, Huhne pleaded guilty on re-arraignment, and subsequently announced that he would resign as an MP by taking the appointment of the Chiltern Hundreds. He also resigned from the Privy Council of the United Kingdom, before he could be expelled, losing the title The Right Honourable. He was remanded on unconditional bail until his sentencing. The trial of Pryce for perverting the course of justice began on 5 February 2013. She admitted taking Huhne's penalty points in evidence, but claimed that she had been coerced into doing so by her former husband.\n\nOn 20 February 2013, after the jury was unable to reach a verdict, the judge discharged the jury and ordered a retrial for Pryce. Previously, the jury had asked questions of the judge, including clarifications of \"reasonable doubt\" and whether they were permitted to come to a verdict \"based on a reason that was not presented in court\".\n\nIn February 2013, at the trial of Vicky Pryce it was revealed that barrister and part-time recorder Constance Briscoe had been arrested in relation to statements she had made to police that she had not had any involvement with the leaking of the driving licence points-swapping story. Briscoe was arrested on 6 October 2012 as a result of a police investigation. No announcement had been made at that time as to the nature of the allegations against her. Prosecutor Andrew Edis told the jury that Briscoe and Pryce had \"started it together by approaching a man called Andrew Alderson (a journalist working for the Mail on Sunday),\" falsely claiming that one of Huhne's aides, Jo White, took points for him in 2003. According to Edis, Briscoe was a neighbour and friend of Pryce and that the \"two of them appear to have cooked up a plan\" to bring about Huhne's downfall. On 1 May 2014, Briscoe was found guilty at the Old Bailey of three charges of attempting to pervert the course of justice, by lying to police, falsifying a witness statement, and providing a false document to an expert witness. On 2 May 2014, she was jailed for 16 months.\n\nOn 11 March 2013, Huhne and Pryce were each jailed for eight months.\n\nHuhne and Pryce were both released from prison on 13 May 2013 subject to electronic tagging. Huhne is working in sustainable energy. Pryce has written a book based on her prison experience entitled, 'Prisonomics' analyzing women's prisons from the economic point of view. Royalties will be donated to \"Working Chance\", a charity helping former women prisoners find work.\n\n"}
{"id": "50693475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50693475", "title": "Refugee identity certificate", "text": "Refugee identity certificate\n\nA refugee identity certificate is a document that refugees use as proof of identity. It is either issued by the UNHCR or by the State of asylum. In many countries refugees are obliged to carry their refugee card with them at all times. In some refugee camps, the WFP food ration card is also used as a form of ID.\n\nStates that have signed the 1951 Refugee Convention have to provide refugees access to identification certificates, which can be either a refugee travel document, according to Article 28 of the convention, or another form of identity documents, according to Article 27.\n\nSince 28 January 2016 refugees in the Federal Republic of Germany have received a proof of arrival. If they have filed an asylum application, they also receive residence authorisation. If they are recognised as entitled to asylum they will be granted refugee status and will receive a travel document for refugees and a residence title.\n\nAfter the Second World War, millions of Germans were expelled from their homeland. The survivors took refuge in what is known today as the Federal Republic of Germany (which at that time was divided into four occupation zones) or in other countries.\n\nThe Federal Republic of Germany and the GDR were founded in 1949, but their sovereignty was still limited for a long time (see legal status of Germany after 1945).\n\nIn the Federal Republic of Germany a passport for displaced persons and refugees was created and the respective status of each individual documented in an admission procedure on arrival. These were issued in Friedland Refugee Camp; for Soviet zone refugees who came via West Berlin, in a camp in Berlin-Marienfelde.\n\nNot all applicants from the Soviet occupation zone were recognised as refugees, but they were tolerated in the West. The refugee identity card confirmed their \"recognition as a refugee\" and provided access to various forms of help for these individuals (for example, the right to move, including entitlement to a rented flat; subsistence allowance which might include compensation for the Equalisation of Burdens Law and loans granted under the act for the purchase of property).\n\nIdentifying the status of a person, who may be displaced from their home country (Heimatvertriebene) or a refugee from the Soviet occupation zone, was carried out according to the Federal Expellee Law of 1953. Identity cards A and B were for displaced persons and refugees of the former eastern territories of Germany. Refugees of the Soviet occupation zone (Sowjetzone) received identity card C.\n\nIdentity card A was for individuals who had already been living in the German Eastern territories before 1938, B for those who had just moved there in 1938.\nIn addition, municipalities in Lower Saxony also issued identity card B to inhabitants who had moved there after the bombings.\n"}
{"id": "49619688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49619688", "title": "Right of foreigners to vote in Switzerland", "text": "Right of foreigners to vote in Switzerland\n\nThe right of foreigners to vote in Switzerland is an ongoing political issue in the country. Switzerland is a federal nation. As such, the cantons have extensive powers to enact their own legislation (similar to the arrangement in the states of the United States). For this reason, the rules regarding the rights of foreign residents to vote differ considerably throughout Switzerland.\n\nAt federal level, exercising one's political rights in the strictest sense (the right to stand for election and to vote in popular initiatives and referendums) is limited to Swiss citizens aged 18 or over, as prescribed by Articles 136, 143 and 150 of the Swiss Federal Constitution. A bill proposing granting foreign residents the right to vote in federal elections was submitted to the Federal Council on 4 October 2000 but was rejected on 4 October 2011.\n\nUnder Article 36(1) of the Federal Constitution, the cantons have the power to grant political rights in cantonal and municipal elections which go beyond the minimum federal threshold (such as lowering the voting age and extending the right to vote to foreign nationals). The cantons also have the option to delegate these powers to the communes. Therefore, in theory, foreigners can be elected to the Council of States, as Article 150(3) of the Constitution states: \"The Cantons determine the rules for the election of their representatives to the Council of States.\"\n\nOnly the cantons of Jura and Neuchâtel grant foreigners the right to vote in cantonal elections, but neither allow foreigners to stand for election at cantonal level. At municipal level, 600 communes across six cantons (Appenzell Ausserrhoden, Fribourg, Graubünden, Jura, Neuchâtel and Vaud) grant foreigners the right to stand for election.\n\nIn 1996, a referendum was held to decide whether to grant to foreigners the right to vote and stand for election in the Canton of Aargau. The proposal was rejected by voters.\n\nArticle 105(2) of the Appenzell Ausserrhoden Cantonal Constitution of 30 April 1995 gives the communes of this canton the freedom to grant (or not) political rights to foreigners, provided that such foreigners have been resident in Switzerland for at least ten years and have lived in the canton for at least five years. Three of the twenty communes have granted foreigners voting rights: Wald (1999), Speicher (2002) and Trogen (2004). In Speicher, Switzerland’s first foreigner was elected to political office – a Dutchman who has since naturalised as a Swiss citizen.\n\nThe Canton of Basel-Stadt has a large foreign population – 50,000 people, who make up 30% of the total population. In 2005, the canton inserted a clause into its constitution (which entered into force on 13 November 2006) giving each of its three communes (Basel, Bettingen and Riehen) the power to extend the right to vote and stand for election at municipal level to “residents other than those who hold Swiss nationality who are at least 18 years of age”. In reality, only the two autonomous communes (Bettingen and Riehen) have this power, as Basel is administered directly by the canton.\n\nIn April 2005, the Grand Council (parliament) of the Canton of Bern refused by 98 votes to 86 a bill from the cantonal government to grant the communes the freedom to grant (or not) foreigners the right to vote at municipal level. Had this bill been approved, it would have allowed foreigners the right to vote provided that they had lived in Switzerland for at least ten years, in the canton for at least five years and in the same commune for at least three months.\n\nA similar bill, brought by the Bern Social Democratic Party and the Independent Socialist Party, was rejected on 25 January 2007 by 77 votes to 73, although it was again supported by the cantonal government. Opponents to the bill primarily came from the bourgeois bloc, the Swiss People’s Party and the Free (or “Radical”) Democratic Party, although the latter had been in favour of the 2005 bill.\n\nIn August 2008, a popular initiative supported by the socialists, the Green Party and the Swiss Federation of Trade Unions gained enough signatures (12,500) to amend the Bern Cantonal Constitution to allow each commune to decide whether to grant voting rights to foreign residents. The subsequent referendum was rejected by voters on 26 September 2010.\n\nThe new constitution of the Canton of Fribourg, adopted on 16 May 2004, states in Article 48: “The following have the right to vote and stand for election at municipal level, providing that they are of voting age: […] foreigners and foreigners resident in their respective commune who have been resident in the canton for at least five years and who have a residence permit.”\n\nThe Law of 16 March 2005 granting political rights to foreigners and to Swiss citizens living abroad amended the Law on the exercising of political rights, bringing the latter into conformity with the new constitution. This law also states: “any person who enjoys political rights at municipal level may stand for election.”\n\nOn 24 April 2005, 52.3% of voters in the Canton of Geneva approved an initiative granting voting rights at municipal level to foreigners who have lived in the canton for at least eight years. Another initiative granting foreigners the right to stand for election gained only 47.2% support. Geneva became the sixth canton in Switzerland to grant political rights to foreign residents.\n\nThis vote came after four unsuccessful earlier attempts. On 17 June 1979, 56.3% of voters rejected an initiative to grant foreigners the right to vote and stand for election at industrial-tribunal elections. On 6 June 1993, 71.3% of voters refused an initiative granting foreigners the right to vote and stand for election at municipal level. On 28 November 1993, the same percentage of voters refused a second initiative granting foreigners only the right to vote. On 4 March 2001, 52% of voters refused an initiative to create a constitutional law granting foreigners the right to vote and stand for election at municipal level.\n\nArticle 42 of the Cantonal Constitution was amended to allow foreign residents the right to vote at municipal elections provided that they have been legally resident in Switzerland for at least eight years. However, foreign residents do not have the right to stand for election.\n\nThe constitutional provision relating to foreigners’ voting rights is directly enforceable and applicable. However, a bill amending the Law on the exercising of political rights was approved on 14 September 2005 to bring legislation in line with the constitution.\n\nAt a Landsgemeinde on 2 May 2010, the voters of the Canton of Glarus rejected a proposal to grant foreigners the right to vote.\n\nArticle 9 of the Constitution of the Canton of Graubünden of 14 September 2003 enshrines Swiss citizens’ right to vote at cantonal level, but does not exclude this right being extended to foreigners, as it is up to the legislator to determine the details. No actual law was adopted to grant voting rights to foreigners.\n\nArticle 9 also states that the communes have the discretion to decide (or not) to grant foreigners both the right to vote and the right to stand for election. Ten of the canton’s 208 communes have made use of this power: Bever, Bonaduz, Calfreise, Cazis, Conters im Prättigau, Fideris, Lüen, Masein, Portein (which merged into the commune of Cazis on 1 January 2010) and Schnaus.\n\nWhen the Canton of Jura was formed in 1978, it immediately granted foreigners the right to vote.\n\nThe Cantonal Constitution grants voting rights to citizens “holding Swiss nationality” and states in Article 73: “the law defines and regulates the right to vote and other political rights of foreigners.”\n\nArticle 3 of the Law of 26 October 1978 on political rights states that foreigners may vote in municipal elections provided that they have been resident in the canton for at least ten years and in their respective commune for at least 30 days. It states that foreigners enjoying the right to vote can also stand for election at municipal level.\n\nThis law also grants foreigners the right to vote at cantonal elections, under the sole condition that they have been resident in the canton for at least ten years.\n\nOn 21 February 2007, the cantonal parliament passed a law (by 51 votes to 4) granting foreigners the right to stand for election as mayor. All such candidates must have lived regularly in Switzerland for at least ten years, including at least one year in the Canton of Jura.\n\nOn 17 June 2007, the voters of Jura voted against a law allowing foreigners to stand for election, therefore revoking the earlier law.\n\nOn 28 September 2014, the cantonal government approved (by 54% of votes) a proposal re-granting foreigners the right to stand for election to all municipal offices except that of mayor.\n\nArticle 15(2) of the draft of the new constitution of the Canton of Lucerne allowed communes the discretion to grant (or not) foreigners the right to vote in municipal elections. However, this clause did not appear in the version of the constitution that was approved by popular vote on 17 June 2007.\n\nThe Canton of Neuchâtel has allowed foreigners to vote in municipal elections since 1849. It briefly abolished this right but then reinstated it in 1875.\n\nThe Law of 17 October 1984 on political rights allows foreigners to vote in municipal elections provided that they are “in a regular situation” and have been resident in the canton for at least a year. Foreigners are also allowed to stand for election.\n\nAn amendment to the Cantonal Constitution in 2000 granted foreigners the right to vote in cantonal elections provided that they have been resident in the canton for at least five years.\n\nIn 1850, Neuchâtel granted foreign residents the right to vote, but not to stand for election, in municipal elections. During the 19th century, not even Swiss citizens were automatically guaranteed the right to stand for election if they originated from a different canton.\n\nIn June 2007, voters rejected a cantonal initiative that proposed granting foreigners the right to stand for election.\n\n2016 saw the rules changed for both municipal and cantonal elections. At municipal level, foreigners and stateless persons who have been resident in a commune of the canton, have a residence permit (“Permis C”) and have been resident in the canton for at least one year are now allowed to stand for election. They may now also stand for election at cantonal level under the same requirements except they must have been resident in the canton for at least five years.\n\nIn 2001, the voters of the Canton of Schaffhausen rejected a popular initiative proposing granting foreigners the right to vote.\n\nOn 28 September 2014, voters again rejected (by 85% of the vote) a proposal allowing foreigners to vote.\n\nIn 1997, the voters of the Canton of Solothurn rejected (by 88.5% of the vote) a proposal allowing foreigners to vote.\n\nArticle 19 of the Constitution of the Canton of Thurgau and Article 2(1) of the Law on political rights allows the communes to grant (or not) foreigners the right to vote at municipal level. As of 2009, only two communes – Langrickenbach and Lengwil – had taken up this option.\n\nThe voters of the Canton of Uri rejected a popular initiative (by 84% of votes) proposing allowing foreigners complete political rights at both municipal and cantonal level.\n\nArticle 142 of the new Constitution of the Canton of Vaud, of 14 April 2003, specifies: “the following make up the electorate: […] foreigners who have been resident in commune anywhere in Switzerland and held a residence permit for at least ten years and have also been resident in the canton for at least three years.” In order to transpose the constitutional provision, the Law on the exercising of political rights was amended in 2003 to grant foreigners the right to vote. As the right to vote and the right to stand for election are indivisible rights in the law of Vaud, foreigners are also allowed to stand for election at municipal level. Only Swiss citizens have the right to vote and stand for election at cantonal level.\n\nAn amendment providing for the possibility for the communes of the Canton of Zug to grant foreigners the right to vote at municipal elections was presented in September 2006 during debates surrounding the amendment of the Law on political rights. However, this provision was not retained in the final version of the amended law.\n\nIn 1993, the voters of the Canton of Zurich voted against a popular initiative (by 74.5% of votes) proposing granting foreigners political rights in the canton. An individual initiative launched by a citizen (“Einzelinitiative”) which proposed introducing voting rights for foreigners in municipal elections was rejected in February 2007.\n"}
{"id": "1879390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879390", "title": "Section 24 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms", "text": "Section 24 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\n\nSection 24 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" provides for remedies available to those whose \"Charter\" rights are shown to be violated. Some scholars have argued that it was actually section 24 that ensured that the \"Charter\" would not have the primary flaw of the 1960 \"Canadian Bill of Rights\": Namely, Canadian judges would be reassured that they could indeed strike down statutes on the basis that they contradicted a bill of rights.\n\nUnder the heading \"Enforcement,\" the section states:\n\nSubsection 24(1) must be distinguished from subsection 52(1) of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\". Whereas section 52 allows the courts to invalidate laws or parts of laws for breaches of the constitution (including the \"Charter\"), section 24 has broader capabilities (hindered only by the \"appropriate and just\" requirement) and can only be invoked when a claimant's rights are violated. Among other things, section 24 seems to give judges the power to place positive obligations upon a government, as well as to enforce more imaginative remedies.\n\nAn example of an imaginative remedy can be found in the landmark case \"Doucet-Boudreau\", (2003) 3 S.C.R. 3, as the claimants challenged the Nova Scotia government's delay in building French language schools as a breach of their section 23 rights. A lower-court judge had ruled in the claimants' favour, and then demanded the government report to him as construction progressed. Despite the Supreme Court minority's objections that this use of section 24 violated \"fundamental justice\" and the \"functus officio\" rule, in which a judge makes a ruling and afterwards has no role to play, the majority upheld the earlier decision. As the majority argued, section 24 is \"responsive to the needs of a given case,\" and as such \"novel remedies\" may not only be permissible, but also required. The \"appropriate and just\" limit was defined in this case as giving the courts themselves the right to determine what is appropriate and just (although they should keep in mind traditional common law limits on judicial power; in this case it was denied that \"functus officio\" was violated), and also as requiring courts to remember that section 24 is itself a part of the constitution and allows judges to carry out their function of enforcing rights.\n\nThese section 24(1) remedies may only be dispensed by a \"court of competent jurisdiction\". In \"R. v. Rahey\" (1987), it was found that in any case, provincial superior and appellate courts, and courts created by the federal government, will qualify as a court of competent jurisdiction and may award remedies where it is considered \"appropriate and just\". An inferior provincial court may qualify as a court of competent jurisdiction where the remedy sought relates to trial procedure. \n\nAn administrative tribunal may qualify as a court of competent jurisdiction where it has been granted statutory jurisdiction over the parties, subject matter, and remedy sought. It is important to note that the jurisdiction over \"remedy sought\" means the jurisdiction as granted by statute, irrespective of the total remedies available under section 24(1) that may be applied by other courts. Even where a tribunal is not found to be a court of competent jurisdiction it is still nonetheless capable of applying the \"Charter\". Where a tribunal has been given the power to decide questions of law it must conform to the Constitution in all of its application of law and so invalid laws must be treated as having no force or effect. However, even if the tribunal is a court of competent jurisdiction it cannot make a declaration of invalidity for any invalid law, it can only treat it as no force or effect. \n\nOverall, section 24's \"competent jurisdiction\" limit on which courts may award remedies, in \"R. v. 974649 Ontario Inc.\" (2001), was taken as meaning that while Charter rights are generous, they exist within a framework set up by Parliament and the provincial governments. These elected governments have the authority to grant varying degrees of powers to courts and tribunals, and deference should be shown to the governments' decisions. Reviewing courts may, however, have to exercise interpretation regarding whether lower courts have powers to award certain remedies if it is not explicit in the laws. This involves examining whether the lower court can consider Charter arguments and if allowing the lower court to dispense section 24(1) remedies would disrupt its general operations or be too much of a work burden for the court staff.\n\nPractices regarding what evidence may be brought against an individual in trials are addressed by section 24(2). When evidence is obtained through the violation of a \"Charter\" right, the claimant is able to apply to have the evidence excluded from the trial under this section. \n\nAt common law, all evidence, regardless of how it was obtained, can be submitted in a trial. The US exclusionary rule excludes all evidence acquired through the violation of the Bill of Rights. Canada has taken a middle ground, \"sometimes\" allowing for the exclusion of evidence, whenever its use threatens to bring the \"administration of justice\" into \"disrepute.\"\n\nIn the 2009 case \"R. v. Grant\", the Supreme Court of Canada created a new test to determine when the administration of justice has been brought into disrepute (replacing the 1987 test in \"R. v. Collins\"). The \"Grant\" test lists three factors the courts must consider: (1) the seriousness of the \"Charter\"-infringing conduct (focusing on a review of how society would view the actions of the state), (2) the impact of the breach on the \"Charter\"-protected interests of the accused (focusing on a review of how the state's actions affected the accused), and (3) society's interests in the adjudication of the case on its merits (focusing on a review of the importance and reliability of the evidence).\n\nThe 1987 case \"R. v. Collins\" had established three factors to consider when determining whether to exclude evidence. First, the courts would look at whether the admission of the evidence would affect the fairness of the trial. Second, they would look at the seriousness of the Charter violation, and third, they would look at the effect of excluding the evidence on the administration of justice. Typically, evidence obtained through violating an accused's right to have counsel (section 10(b)) or the right to security from unreasonable search and seizure (section 8) was excluded by this section.\n\nAfter \"Collins\" and other such decisions, by 2000 the Supreme Court of Canada had used the \"Charter\" to exclude evidence in 45% of section 24(2) cases that come before the Court.\n\n"}
{"id": "34984163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34984163", "title": "Tax on trees", "text": "Tax on trees\n\nTax on trees was a tax imposed on the owners of fruit trees in the USSR by Joseph Stalin's government in 1944. The tax made it expensive to have trees on a farm, and had the unintended consequence of causing a mass felling of trees by Soviet farmers. This subsequently led to shortage of fruit.\n\nThe idea proposed by the Minister Arseny Zverev, and Stalin failed to foresee the problems it would produce. The tax was repealed in 1954, by Georgy Malenkov, when taxes were reduced by 60 per cent for farmers.\n"}
{"id": "31914708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31914708", "title": "Todd Salimuchai", "text": "Todd Salimuchai\n\nTodd Salimuchai (born c. 1970) is a self-described Thai or Burmese former opium poppy farmer, best known as the only man to ever attempt an aircraft hijacking at the Hong Kong International Airport.\n\nLike many members of tribal peoples in border areas of Southeast Asia, Salimuchai has no identity documents attesting to his birth date or place of origin, making him effectively stateless. Any information about his early life comes only from his own statements. He says he is a Lisu tribesman from a 200-person village called Hazen in the Golden Triangle on the border of Thailand and Myanmar. His parents died when he was young, leaving Salimuchai and his two elder brothers as orphans. His native language is Lisu; he learned some English as a young man from American soldiers and other travelling expatriates as a child. He also says he learned how to fly small helicopters. Though he claims not to have used drugs himself, his village was heavily involved in the drug trade, growing poppies for sale to a Hong Kong drug lord who would come with payment once every year.\n\nOne year, instead of cash payment, the drug lord brought a check for US$800,000. The villagers reluctantly and suspiciously accepted the check, but banks refused to encash it. The village elders decided to send Salimuchai and another young man to Hong Kong to search for the drug lord and resolve the issue. Salimuchai and his accomplice were flown by helicopter to a port and became stowaways on a Hong Kong-bound freighter. Disoriented after their landing in Hong Kong and unable to speak the local language, they searched for the drug lord fruitlessly for three months while staying in a safe house. Salimuchai was eventually arrested during a police identity check in Wan Chai.\n\nFollowing his arrest, Salimuchai was sent to Victoria Prison. Hong Kong Immigration Department officers interviewed him, but due to his limited English made little headway in determining who he was or whence he came. They ordered his continued detention pending removal to \"a place to be specified\". That place turned out to be mainland China; in early 2000, he was placed on a bus with mainland immigration offenders and sent to Shenzhen, told by police officers that he was going home. While in the mainland, he claims to have suffered electric shock torture and beatings over a period of forty days in two different jails. He was also given a Chinese name. Afterwards, he was deported back to Hong Kong, and again detained.\n\nIn May 2000, Salimuchai was released from immigration detention. With just HK$2,000 which his friend had left for him at the safe-house, Salimuchai had no way of putting a roof over his head. He ended up homeless, sleeping on the street and collecting paper and cans in Wan Chai to sell to recyclers and earn money for his survival.\n\nOn 31 July 2000, Salimuchai took a fake pistol and went to the Hong Kong International Airport, planning to hijack a helicopter and fly himself back home. Upon arrival, he snuck in using a loading dock staff entrance, forced his way through security into the airside area, and took a female cleaner hostage. However, he saw that the helicopters were far away and much larger than the ones he knew how to fly. Quickly changing his plans, he instead boarded a Cathay Pacific aircraft. The aircraft, which had just arrived from Taipei as flight CX451 and was being prepared to fly to Paris and then London as flight CX261 at 11:35 PM, was empty at the time. After a two-hour siege, Salimuchai surrendered to police. No one was injured in the course of the incident; however, 372 passengers' travel plans were disrupted, and Cathay Pacific had to pay for 363 of them to be put up in local hotels.\n\nAt the time, security guards at Hong Kong International Airport checkpoints were unarmed; in the aftermath of Salimuchai's hijacking (and another incident the next day in which a 19-year-old airport worker carried a fake gun and five bullets into the airport's cargo centre in what he claimed was an attempt to play a prank on a colleague) it was proposed that they be armed. Salimuchai was sent to Tsuen Wan District Court. There, he pleaded guilty to charges of false imprisonment and using a fake firearm with intent to commit an offence, and in February 2001 was sentenced to five years in prison. In prison, he came into contact with many former drug users, and developed a sense of remorse, as he felt he had contributed to their problems. In 2004, he wrote to the Immigration Department to declare that he wanted to integrate into the Hong Kong community. He attained early release in December 2004 with the aid of a guarantor.\n\nSalimuchai's troubles did not end with his release from prison. The Immigration Department took his fingerprints and tried to verify his identity with various countries in order to arrange for his deportation, but failed. 17 countries refused him entry as an asylum-seeker, mainly due to his criminal record. He furthermore applied for Comprehensive Social Security Assistance from the Labour and Welfare Bureau, but was rejected as he was not a Hong Kong resident. A friend of his from prison initially offered him a place to live and economic support, but Salimuchai broke off contact with him when the friend tried to draw him back to a life of crime. He applied for refugee status United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, who gave him temporary support while his application was pending.\n\nHowever, in 2005 the UNHCR rejected Salimuchai's application because he did not qualify as a refugee; he was not in fear of persecution in his home country, but instead actively sought to return there and was blocked because he could not convince any country to grant him admission. After the rejection of his refugee claim, the UNHCR cut off their support for Salimuchai as well. Prohibited from working by the Immigration Department, Salimuchai relied on charity from private benefactors (including an unidentified high-level government official) who gave him about HK$1,000/month, as well as local non-governmental organisations such as Inner City Mission, which provided him with free meals. He applied to the Immigration Department for permission to work, hoping to be able to repay the kindness of his guarantor, but was rejected. In November 2005, he appealed the rejection directly to then-Chief Executive Donald Tsang, but his petition went unanswered.\n\nSalimuchai's case attracted attention from various local and international organisations such as the Belgium-based Human Rights Without Frontiers; human rights lawyer Mark Daly began working with Salimuchai on his case. In late 2007, Salimuchai filed a suit in the High Court against the immigration department. The suit, the first of its kind to be brought in Hong Kong, alleged inhumane treatment and violation of the Hong Kong Bill of Rights Ordinance (1991) and the 1954 Convention Relating to the Status of Stateless Persons. He also sought to overturn the prohibition against employment that had been imposed on him. The immigration department for their part complained that Salimuchai had been uncooperative in telling them where he was from, hindering their efforts to aid him. In April 2008, Salimuchai reached an amicable settlement with the government, in which the Immigration Department gave him permission to take up employment.\n"}
{"id": "11678343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11678343", "title": "UMTS frequency bands", "text": "UMTS frequency bands\n\nThe UMTS frequency bands are radio frequencies used by third generation (3G) wireless Universal Mobile Telecommunications System networks.\nThey were allocated by delegate to the World Administrative Radio Conference (WARC-92) held in Málaga-Torremolinos, Spain between February 3, 1992 and March 3, 1992. Resolution 212 (Rev.WRC-97), adopted at the World Radiocommunication Conference held in Geneva, Switzerland in 1997, endorsed the bands specifically for the International Mobile Telecommunications-2000 (IMT-2000) specification by referring to S5.388, which states \"The bands 1,885-2,025 MHz and 2,110-2,200 MHz are intended for use, on a worldwide basis, by administrations wishing to implement International Mobile Telecommunications 2000 (IMT-2000). Such use does not preclude the use of these bands by other services to which they are allocated. The bands should be made available for IMT-2000 in accordance with Resolution 212 (Rev. WRC-97).\" To accommodate the reality that these initially defined bands were already in use in various regions of the world, the initial allocation has been amended multiple times to include other radio frequency bands.\n\nUMTS-FDD technology is standardized for usage in the following paired bands:\n\nThe following table shows the standardized UMTS bands and their regional use. The main UMTS bands are in bold print.\n\nUMTS-TDD technology is standardized for usage in the following bands:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26253062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26253062", "title": "University of Turin Department of Law", "text": "University of Turin Department of Law\n\nThe University of Turin Department of Law is the law school of the University of Turin.\nIt is commonly shortened \"UNITO Department of Law\".\nIt traces its roots to the founding of the University of Turin, and has produced or hosted some of the most outstanding jurists, statespeople and scholars in Italian and European history.\nAmong its distinguished faculty and alumni are leading writers, philosophers and legal scholars. Nowadays the Department of Law continues the tradition, with particular strengths in the fields of private law, EU law, comparative law and related fields.\n\nThe history of the Department of Law can be traced to the establishment of the University of Turin, in 1404, and has followed its developments over the ensuing six centuries.\n\nIn autumn 1404, a bull issued by Benedict XIII, the Avignon Pope, marked the actual birth of a centre of higher learning in Torino, formally ratified in 1412 by the Emperor Sigmund's certification and subsequently, in 1413, by a bull issued by antipope John XXIII, the Pisan Pope, and probably by another issued in 1419 by Martin V, Pope of Rome, and by a series of papal privileges. The new institution, which initially only held courses in civil and canon law, was authorized to confer both the academic \"licentia\" and \"doctoratus\" titles which were later to become a single \"laurea\" (degree) title. It was the Bishop, as Rector of Studies, who proclaimed and conferred the title on the new doctors.\n\nIn 1436, ducal licenses established the three core faculties of Theology, Arts and Medicine, as well as Civil and Canon law. In the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, the legal studies increasingly grew, giving the Department a national and international reputation. Notable academics contributed to the growth of the Department. During the years of the Resurgence, when a numerous group of patriots and intellectuals took refuge in the Savoy capital city, some of Italy's most remarkable names taught at the University and the Department of Law, like the jurist and statesman Pasquale Stanislao Mancini, and the two economics professors Antonio Scialoja and Francesco Ferrara.\n\nIn modern Italian history, the UNITO Department of Law was known for its central role in Italian national unification and cultural progressiveness. For instance, in 1881, the Department of Law graduated Lidia Poët, who would become the controversial first female jurist in modern Italy.\n\nIn the first half of 20th century some outstanding names in the history of the Department and the university include: Luigi Einaudi, in the field of the financial studies; Gaetano Mosca in public law; Francesco Ruffini in canon law and Paolo Greco in commercial law. \nMost recently should be mentioned at least Norberto Bobbio, in legal philosophy; Giovanni Conso, in criminal law; Gastone Cottino in commercial law; Marcello Gallo, in criminal law; Giuseppe Grosso in Roman law; Rodolfo Sacco in civil and comparative law.\nThe Department of Law is located in Turin, nearby the fascinating Mole Antonelliana.\nIt is one of the leading law departments in Europe, with particular strengths in the fields of comparative law and private law. Additionally, the Department of Law has improved its physical facilities (including course offerings in Cuneo and international exchange programs with a number of the world's leading research universities). \nThe Department of Law coordinates the research work of more than 120 law professors in the different areas of law.\nThe Department offers a number of degrees, starting with the \"laurea di giurisprudenza\" (equivalent to an LL.B.), \"laurea specialistica\" or \"laurea magistrale\" (postgraduate law degree, equivalent to an LL.M.) and several specialized LL.M. programs.\nThe Department also offers some brief degree courses (three years). In addition, the Department offers the \"dottorato di ricerca\" or the traditional research Ph.D. degree. As a result of the Bologna Process, all of the UNITO Law degrees are fully comparable and transferrable across Europe, and graduates of the law department in fact practice in a number of leading jurisdictions across Europe.\n\nIn addition, the Department of Law offers [LL.M.]] programs:\n\nOfficial Website\n\nOfficial Website\n\nOfficial Website\n\nOfficial Website\n\nOfficial Website\n\nOfficial Website\n\nOfficial Website\n\nOfficial Website\n\nOfficial Website\n\nThe UNITO Department of Law is a founding member of a number of innovative international law programs, such as the Center for Transnational Legal Studies, London, and several independent research institutes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45337232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45337232", "title": "World Woman", "text": "World Woman\n\nWORLD WOMAN is a festival of art and activism in Oslo founded in 2015 by filmmaker and activist Deeyah Khan. The festival highlights the voices of artists and activists from around the world and promotes courage, creativity and compassion through human rights, freedom of expression, equality and peace. The event was produced by Fuuse and it took place on the 30th and 31 January 2015 in the Riksscenen with the support of Norway's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. WORLD WOMAN is planned as an annual event.\n\nWorld Woman 2015 theme was Courage and Creativity.\n\nThe inaugural World Woman festival featured performances by Mari Boine, Marilyn Mazur, John McLaughlin, Mahsa Vahdat, Sister Fa, Pakistani dancer Sheema Kermani, founder of Tehrik-e-Niswan, Fahmida Riaz, Viktoria Mullova, Gary Husband, Bugge Wesseltoft, Eivind Aarset, Hela Fattoumi, Arve Henriksen.\n\nWorld Woman conversations and talks included Shirin Ebadi, Nawal El Saadawi, Hina Jilani, Sanam Naraghi-Anderlini, International Civil Society Action Network (ICAN), Gro Brundtland, Scilla Elworthy, Şafak Pavey, Mona Eltahawy, Gurpreet Kaur Bhatti, Kenan Malik, Ayşe Önal, Sister Rosemary Nyirumbe, Fawzia Koofi, Farida Shaheed, Natalia Koliada of Belarus Free Theatre, Leyla Hussein, Yanar Mohammed, Gabrielle Rifkind, Rana Husseini.\n\nMessages of support and solidarity were recorded by Patrick Stewart, Erna Solberg, Sinead O'Connor, Kofi Annan, Sting and Richard Branson. \n\nWORLD WOMAN was covered in \"Volkskrant\", \"The Guardian\", \"Huffington Post\", \"The Independent\" and on BBC4's \"Woman's Hour\" as well as the Norwegian press.\n\n"}
