{"id": "93070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93070", "title": "A New Kind of Science", "text": "A New Kind of Science\n\nA New Kind of Science is a best-selling, controversial book by Stephen Wolfram, published by his own company in 2002. It contains an empirical and systematic study of computational systems such as cellular automata. Wolfram calls these systems \"simple programs\" and argues that the scientific philosophy and methods appropriate for the study of simple programs are relevant to other fields of science.\n\nThe thesis of \"A New Kind of Science\" (\"NKS\") is twofold: that the nature of computation must be explored experimentally, and that the results of these experiments have great relevance to understanding the physical world. Since its nascent beginnings in the 1930s, computation has been primarily approached from two traditions: engineering, which seeks to build practical systems using computations; and mathematics, which seeks to prove theorems about computation. However, as recently as the 1970s, computing has been described as being at the crossroads of mathematical, engineering, and empirical traditions.\n\nWolfram introduces a third tradition that seeks to empirically investigate computation for its own sake: He argues that an entirely new method is needed to do so because traditional mathematics fails to meaningfully describe complex systems, and that there is an upper limit to complexity in all systems.\n\nThe basic subject of Wolfram's \"new kind of science\" is the study of simple abstract rules—essentially, elementary computer programs. In almost any class of a computational system, one very quickly finds instances of great complexity among its simplest cases (after a time series of multiple iterative loops, applying the same simple set of rules on itself, similar to a self-reinforcing cycle using a set of rules). This seems to be true regardless of the components of the system and the details of its setup. Systems explored in the book include, amongst others, cellular automata in one, two, and three dimensions; mobile automata; Turing machines in 1 and 2 dimensions; several varieties of substitution and network systems; primitive recursive functions; nested recursive functions; combinators; tag systems; register machines; reversal-addition. For a program to qualify as simple, there are several requirements:\n\nGenerally, simple programs tend to have a very simple abstract framework. Simple cellular automata, Turing machines, and combinators are examples of such frameworks, while more complex cellular automata do not necessarily qualify as simple programs. It is also possible to invent new frameworks, particularly to capture the operation of natural systems. The remarkable feature of simple programs is that a significant percentage of them are capable of producing great complexity. Simply enumerating all possible variations of almost any class of programs quickly leads one to examples that do unexpected and interesting things. This leads to the question: if the program is so simple, where does the complexity come from? In a sense, there is not enough room in the program's definition to directly encode all the things the program can do. Therefore, simple programs can be seen as a minimal example of emergence. A logical deduction from this phenomenon is that if the details of the program's rules have little direct relationship to its behavior, then it is very difficult to directly engineer a simple program to perform a specific behavior. An alternative approach is to try to engineer a simple overall computational framework, and then do a brute-force search through all of the possible components for the best match.\n\nSimple programs are capable of a remarkable range of behavior. Some have been proven to be universal computers. Others exhibit properties familiar from traditional science, such as thermodynamic behavior, continuum behavior, conserved quantities, percolation, sensitive dependence on initial conditions, and others. They have been used as models of traffic, material fracture, crystal growth, biological growth, and various sociological, geological, and ecological phenomena. Another feature of simple programs is that, according to the book, making them more complicated seems to have little effect on their overall complexity. \"A New Kind of Science\" argues that this is evidence that simple programs are enough to capture the essence of almost any complex system.\n\nIn order to study simple rules and their often complex behaviour, Wolfram argues that it is necessary to systematically explore all of these computational systems and document what they do. He further argues that this study should become a new branch of science, like physics or chemistry. The basic goal of this field is to understand and characterize the computational universe using experimental methods.\n\nThe proposed new branch of scientific exploration admits many different forms of scientific production. For instance, qualitative classifications are often the results of initial forays into the computational jungle. On the other hand, explicit proofs that certain systems compute this or that function are also admissible. There are also some forms of production that are in some ways unique to this field of study. For example, the discovery of computational mechanisms that emerge in different systems but in bizarrely different forms.\n\nAnother kind of production involves the creation of programs for the analysis of computational systems. In the \"NKS\" framework, these themselves should be simple programs, and subject to the same goals and methodology. An extension of this idea is that the human mind is itself a computational system, and hence providing it with raw data in as effective a way as possible is crucial to research. Wolfram believes that programs and their analysis should be visualized as directly as possible, and exhaustively examined by the thousands or more. Since this new field concerns abstract rules, it can in principle address issues relevant to other fields of science. However, in general Wolfram's idea is that novel ideas and mechanisms can be discovered in the computational universe, where they can be represented in their simplest forms, and then other fields can choose among these discoveries for those they find relevant.\n\nWolfram has since expressed \"A central lesson of \"A New Kind of Science\" is that there’s a lot of incredible richness out there in the computational universe. And one reason that’s important is that it means that there’s a lot of incredible stuff out there for us to 'mine' and harness for our purposes.\"\n\nWhile Wolfram advocates simple programs as a scientific discipline, he also argues that its methodology will revolutionize other fields of science. The basis of his argument is that the study of simple programs is the minimal possible form of science, grounded equally in both abstraction and empirical experimentation. Every aspect of the methodology advocated in \"NKS\" is optimized to make experimentation as direct, easy, and meaningful as possible while maximizing the chances that the experiment will do something unexpected. Just as this methodology allows computational mechanisms to be studied in their simplest forms, Wolfram argues that the process of doing so engages with the mathematical basis of the physical world, and therefore has much to offer the sciences.\n\nWolfram argues that the computational realities of the universe make science hard for fundamental reasons. But he also argues that by understanding the importance of these realities, we can learn to use them in our favor. For instance, instead of reverse engineering our theories from observation, we can enumerate systems and then try to match them to the behaviors we observe. A major theme of \"NKS\" is investigating the structure of the possibility space. Wolfram argues that science is far too ad hoc, in part because the models used are too complicated and unnecessarily organized around the limited primitives of traditional mathematics. Wolfram advocates using models whose variations are enumerable and whose consequences are straightforward to compute and analyze.\n\nWolfram argues that one of his achievements is in providing a coherent system of ideas that justifies computation as an organizing principle of science. For instance, he argues that the concept of \"computational irreducibility\" (that some complex computations are not amenable to short-cuts and cannot be \"reduced\"), is ultimately the reason why computational models of nature must be considered in addition to traditional mathematical models. Likewise, his idea of intrinsic randomness generation—that natural systems can generate their own randomness, rather than using chaos theory or stochastic perturbations—implies that computational models do not need to include explicit randomness.\n\nBased on his experimental results, Wolfram developed the principle of computational equivalence (PCE): the principle states that systems found in the natural world can perform computations up to a maximal (\"universal\") level of computational power. Most systems can attain this level. Systems, in principle, compute the same things as a computer. Computation is therefore simply a question of translating input and outputs from one system to another. Consequently, most systems are computationally equivalent. Proposed examples of such systems are the workings of the human brain and the evolution of weather systems.\n\nThe principle can be restated as follows: almost all processes that are not obviously simple are of equivalent sophistication. From this principle, Wolfram draws an array of concrete deductions which he argues reinforce his theory. Possibly the most important among these is an explanation as to why we experience randomness and complexity: often, the systems we analyze are just as sophisticated as we are. Thus, complexity is not a special quality of systems, like for instance the concept of \"heat,\" but simply a label for all systems whose computations are sophisticated. Wolfram argues that understanding this makes possible the \"normal science\" of the \"NKS\" paradigm.\n\nAt the deepest level, Wolfram argues that—like many of the most important scientific ideas—the principle of computational equivalence allows science to be more general by pointing out new ways in which humans are not \"special\"; that is, it has been claimed that the complexity of human intelligence makes us special, but the Principle asserts otherwise. In a sense, many of Wolfram's ideas are based on understanding the scientific process—including the human mind—as operating within the same universe it studies, rather than being outside it.\n\nThere are a number of specific results and ideas in the \"NKS\" book, and they can be organized into several themes. One common theme of examples and applications is demonstrating how little complexity it takes to achieve interesting behavior, and how the proper methodology can discover this behavior.\n\nFirst, there are several cases where the \"NKS\" book introduces what was, during the book's composition, the simplest known system in some class that has a particular characteristic. Some examples include the first primitive recursive function that results in complexity, the smallest universal Turing Machine, and the shortest axiom for propositional calculus. In a similar vein, Wolfram also demonstrates many simple programs that exhibit phenomena like phase transitions, conserved quantities, continuum behavior, and thermodynamics that are familiar from traditional science. Simple computational models of natural systems like shell growth, fluid turbulence, and phyllotaxis are a final category of applications that fall in this theme.\n\nAnother common theme is taking facts about the computational universe as a whole and using them to reason about fields in a holistic way. For instance, Wolfram discusses how facts about the computational universe inform evolutionary theory, SETI, free will, computational complexity theory, and philosophical fields like ontology, epistemology, and even postmodernism.\n\nWolfram suggests that the theory of computational irreducibility may provide a resolution to the existence of free will in a nominally deterministic universe. He posits that the computational process in the brain of the being with free will is actually complex enough so that it cannot be captured in a simpler computation, due to the principle of computational irreducibility. Thus, while the process is indeed deterministic, there is no better way to determine the being's will than, in essence, to run the experiment and let the being exercise it.\n\nThe book also contains a vast number of individual results—both experimental and analytic—about what a particular automaton computes, or what its characteristics are, using some methods of analysis.\n\nThe book contains a new technical result in describing the Turing completeness of the Rule 110 cellular automaton. Very small Turing machines can simulate Rule 110, which Wolfram demonstrates using a 2-state 5-symbol universal Turing machine. Wolfram conjectures that a particular 2-state 3-symbol Turing machine is universal. In 2007, as part of commemorating the book's fifth anniversary, Wolfram's company offered a $25,000 prize for proof that this Turing machine is universal. Alex Smith, a computer science student from Birmingham, UK, won the prize later that year by proving Wolfram's conjecture.\n\nEvery year, Wolfram and his group of instructors organize a summer school. From 2003 to 2006, these classes were held at Brown University. In 2007, the summer school began being hosted by the University of Vermont at Burlington, with the exception of 2009 which was held at the Istituto di Scienza e Tecnologie dell'Informazione of the CNR in Pisa, Italy. In 2012, the program was held at Curry College in Milton, Massachusetts. Since 2013, the Wolfram Summer School has been held annually at Bentley University in Waltham, Massachusetts. After 14 consecutive summer schools, more than 550 people have participated, some of whom continued developing their 3-week research projects as their Master's or Ph.D theses. Some of the research done in the summer school has resulted in publications.\n\nPeriodicals gave \"A New Kind of Science\" coverage, including articles in \"The New York Times\", \"Newsweek\", \"Wired\", and \"The Economist\". Some scientists criticized the book as abrasive and arrogant, and perceived a fatal flaw—that simple systems such as cellular automata are not complex enough to describe the degree of complexity present in evolved systems, and observed that Wolfram ignored the research categorizing the complexity of systems. Although critics accept Wolfram's result showing universal computation, they view it as minor and dispute Wolfram's claim of a paradigm shift. Others found that the work contained valuable insights and refreshing ideas. Wolfram addressed his critics in a series of blog posts.\n\nIn an article published on April 3, 2018, \"A New Kind of Science\" was listed among the 190 books recommended by Bill Gates.\n\nA tenet of \"NKS\" is that the simpler the system, the more likely a version of it will recur in a wide variety of more complicated contexts. Therefore, \"NKS\" argues that systematically exploring the space of simple programs will lead to a base of reusable knowledge. However, many scientists believe that of all possible parameters, only some actually occur in the universe. For instance, of all possible permutations of the symbols making up an equation, most will be essentially meaningless. \"NKS\" has also been criticized for asserting that the behavior of simple systems is somehow representative of all systems.\n\nA common criticism of \"NKS\" is that it does not follow established scientific methodology. For instance, \"NKS\" does not establish rigorous mathematical definitions, nor does it attempt to prove theorems; and most formulas and equations are written in Mathematica rather than standard notation. Along these lines, \"NKS\" has also been criticized for being heavily visual, with much information conveyed by pictures that do not have formal meaning. It has also been criticized for not using modern research in the field of complexity, particularly the works that have studied complexity from a rigorous mathematical perspective. And it has been criticized for misrepresenting chaos theory: \"Throughout the book, he equates chaos theory with the phenomenon of sensitive dependence on initial conditions (SDIC).\"\n\n\"NKS\" has been criticized for not providing specific results that would be immediately applicable to ongoing scientific research. There has also been criticism, implicit and explicit, that the study of simple programs has little connection to the physical universe, and hence is of limited value. Steven Weinberg has pointed out that no real world system has been explained using Wolfram's methods in a satisfactory fashion.\n\nThe Principle of computational equivalence has been criticized for being vague, unmathematical, and for not making directly verifiable predictions. It has also been criticized for being contrary to the spirit of research in mathematical logic and computational complexity theory, which seek to make fine-grained distinctions between levels of computational sophistication, and for wrongly conflating different kinds of universality property. Moreover, critics such as Ray Kurzweil have argued that it ignores the distinction between hardware and software; while two computers may be equivalent in power, it does not follow that any two programs they might run are also equivalent. Others suggest it is little more than a rechristening of the Church–Turing thesis.\n\nWolfram's speculations of a direction towards a fundamental theory of physics have been criticized as vague and obsolete. Scott Aaronson, Professor of Computer Science at University of Texas Austin, also claims that Wolfram's methods cannot be compatible with both special relativity and Bell's theorem violations, and hence cannot explain the observed results of Bell test experiments. However, Aaronson's arguments are either right and apply to the entire scientific field of Quantum gravity that seeks to find theories unifying relativity and quantum mechanics or they are fundamentally flawed (e.g. under a non-local hidden variable theory of superdeterminism acknowledged by Bell himself), and even explored by e.g. physics Nobel laureate Gerard 't Hooft, see also replies to criticism of digital physics.\n\nEdward Fredkin and Konrad Zuse pioneered the idea of a computable universe, the former by writing a line in his book on how the world might be like a cellular automaton, and later further developed by Fredkin using a toy model called Salt. It has been claimed that \"NKS\" tries to take these ideas as its own but Wolfram's model of the universe is a rewriting network and not a cellular automaton as Wolfram himself has suggested a cellular automaton cannot account for relativistic features such as no absolute time frame. Jürgen Schmidhuber has also charged that his work on Turing machine-computable physics was stolen without attribution, namely his idea on enumerating possible Turing-computable universes.\n\nIn a 2002 review of \"NKS\", the Nobel laureate and elementary particle physicist Steven Weinberg wrote, \"Wolfram himself is a lapsed elementary particle physicist, and I suppose he can't resist trying to apply his experience with digital computer programs to the laws of nature. This has led him to the view (also considered in a 1981 paper by Richard Feynman) that nature is discrete rather than continuous. He suggests that space consists of a set of isolated points, like cells in a cellular automaton, and that even time flows in discrete steps. Following an idea of Edward Fredkin, he concludes that the universe itself would then be an automaton, like a giant computer. It's possible, but I can't see any motivation for these speculations, except that this is the sort of system that Wolfram and others have become used to in their work on computers. So might a carpenter, looking at the moon, suppose that it is made of wood.\"\n\nNobel laureate Gerard 't Hooft has more recently also suggested a cellular automaton-based unifying theory of quantum gravity as an interpretation of superstring theory where the evolution equations are classical, \"[b]oth the bosonic string theory and superstring theory can be reformulated in terms of a special basis of states, defined on a space-time lattice with lattice length formula_1\"\n\nWolfram's claim that natural selection is not the fundamental cause of complexity in biology has led non-scientist journalist Chris Lavers to state that Wolfram does not understand the theory of evolution.\n\n\"NKS\" has been heavily criticized as not being original or important enough to justify its title and claims.\n\nThe authoritative manner in which \"NKS\" presents a vast number of examples and arguments has been criticized as leading the reader to believe that each of these ideas was original to Wolfram; in particular, one of the most substantial new technical results presented in the book, that the rule 110 cellular automaton is Turing complete, was not proven by Wolfram, but by his research assistant, Matthew Cook. However, the notes section at the end of his book acknowledges many of the discoveries made by these other scientists citing their names together with historical facts, although not in the form of a traditional bibliography section. Additionally, the idea that very simple rules often generate great complexity is already an established idea in science, particularly in chaos theory and complex systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33879620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33879620", "title": "Alien visitation", "text": "Alien visitation\n\nThroughout history, some people have claimed experiences that are the supposed results of alien visitation. While some of the factors of extraterrestrial visits range in variety, the basic structure stays the same, motivating further research into the topic.\n\nAlien visitation refers to an intentional encounter between an extraterrestrial being to a human. For alien visitation to be considered a real issue among researchers, extraterrestrials must be proven to have a valid motivation for visiting, and the encounter must be scientifically possible and probable. As of now, theories have been put forth by various researchers regarding the validity of alien visitation. \n\nThe proposed motives for extraterrestrial visitations can be classified into three subsections: 1) attempt to influence the future of humanity, 2) attempt to warn or enlighten, and 3) experimental use. \n\nAccording to ancient astronaut hypothesis, extraterrestrials had been active in the affairs of early man. Furthermore, Erich Von Däniken, a notable ancient astronaut believer, considers that the deities of ancient cultures were attempts at explaining alien visitation. Because Von Däniken’s hypothesis is considered purely speculative, the ancient astronaut hypothesis has no support within the scientific community. According to ancient astronaut devotees, proof of alien visitations in antiquity are found prevalently in patterns of art, technology, and engineering. To them, the Moai statues on Easter Island, the Pyramids of Egypt, and Stonehenge can all be easily explained through the ancient astronaut hypothesis. They also argue that the technological advances in antiquity are the result of alien visitation, citing unaccounted for invention and abnormal historical surges in technology as proof for their claims. The ancient astronaut hypothesis suggests that the motive for alien visitation is to influence the future of mankind. In fact, some ancient astronaut proponents even mention the cause of World War II and the atomic bomb as effects of alien visitation and activity. Although mainstream science and historians dismiss these claims as make believe, they do provide ample motive for a supposed alien visitation. \n\nRather than hypothetically or historically based, this proposed motive for alien visitation is based on supposed alien abduction accounts. According to most supposed alien abductees, an abduction session is always concluded with an instructional portion, where the extraterrestrials show supposed abductees one of three different scenarios. Generally, the \"abductee\" is shown either 1) a world destroyed by war and pestilence, 2) a result of extraterrestrial technological advancement or 3) a specific duty to perform. Many times, the \"abductee\" is shown multiple scenarios. According to ancient astronaut proponents, these modern abduction accounts fit the ancient astronaut narrative, claiming that the instructional portion carries many similarities to ancient prophecies or oracle sessions. In particular the revealing of extraterrestrial technology fits with the narrative of extraterrestrials assisting in human advancement.\n\nAnother facet of abductee testimonial, which provides motive for alien visitation, is the use of experimentation. In nearly all alien supposed abductee experiences, the abductee recalls being examined upon. Reportedly, the examinations are generally centered around the human sex organs, while focus is also put on the cranium and skin. This experimentation process leads some to believe that the motive for extraterrestrial visitation is to use human body functions to either: 1) save their own race 2) help our race to survive or 3) genetically alter the human gene pool in order to serve their own purposes.\n\n"}
{"id": "52872292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52872292", "title": "Allofeeding", "text": "Allofeeding\n\nAllofeeding is a type of food sharing behaviour observed in cooperatively breeding species of birds. Allofeeding refers to a parent, sibling or unrelated adult bird feeding altricial hatchlings, which are dependent on parental care for their survival. Allofeeding also refers to food sharing between adults of the same species. Allofeeding can occur between mates during mating rituals, courtship, egg laying or incubation, between peers of the same species, or as a form of parental care.\n\nAllofeeding evolved for different reasons in different species of birds. While Sagebrush Brewer’s Sparrows allofeed to reduce predation during incubation, Sichuan Jays allofeed to increase a female’s nutritional level prior to egg laying, and Chinstrap Penguins allofeed to strengthen the bond between the pair during chick guarding. \n\nWhile parental allofeeding is a common form of parental care among many species of birds, the practice is not inherently restricted to biological parents and their young, and is often done for reasons unrelated to the well-being of the chicks. Arabian Bablers, for instance, peer allofeed in an attempt at increasing their social rank, whereas the King Penguin considers those 'non-breeders' who allofeed chicks to be altruistic and highly revered. And the far more practical Barn Owl, of course, peer allofeeds merely to reduce sibling rivalry/competition during meal times. \n\nAlthough many species of birds exhibit allofeeding, there are some species that do not perform allofeeding, such as Siberian Jays.\n\nMany species of migratory songbirds display allofeeding during the incubation period. During the incubation period, a male songbird will feed its mate, while she sits on the eggs through beak-to-beak interaction. This allofeeding behaviour is suggested to be adaptive because the male is indirectly investing in its offspring. The male uses its energy to forage and retrieve food, and to feed the female. This behaviour of the male reduces nutritional stress of the female because it reduces the amount of time the female spends foraging. In addition, the allofeeding behaviour decreases the number of times a female has to leave the nest, which in turn extends the incubation period and reduces the risk of nest being detected by a predator. Overall, allofeeding behaviour contributes to increased fitness and is therefore considered advantageous. However, Nolan (1958) theorizes that allofeeding is a non-adaptive and is derived from anticipatory parental care.\n\nAllofeeding during the incubation period can also transpire through both the male and the female interchangeably feeding each other via beak-to-beak interactions, while a mate receiving the food incubates the eggs. Once feeding is completed, the recipient now becomes the feeder and the mate that was just foraging incubates the eggs. For example, Sagebrush Brewer’s Sparrows (\"Spizella breweri breweri\") allofeed in this manner. A recent study by Halley et al., 2015, examined allofeeding in twenty-four nests of Sagebrush Brewer’s Sparrows. This study revealed that allofeeding occurred at low frequencies (55%) in nests with biparental incubation and no allofeeding occurred in uniparental nests. This study suggests that allofeeding is an intraspecific signal required to maintain social bonds between mates, in addition to increasing the nutrition levels of females and concealment of the nest. Furthermore, the study found that incubation sessions per hour were higher in biparental nests with allofeeding than in biparental nests without allofeeding. These findings indicate that allofeeding is beneficial because it reduces the risk of predation from visually oriented predators through increased nest concealment, which can maximize the fitness of males while increasing the fitness of females.\n\nThere have been many documented observations of allofeeding between mates (mate allofeeding). However, in penguins allofeeding between mates is rare. In 2010, Chinstrap Penguins (\"P. antarctica\") allofeeding was reported during the period of chick guarding. The researchers witnessed a male feeding a female, which had a large chick in its nest. The behaviour was engaged by the female frequently pecking the side of the male’s bill to stimulate the male to regurgitate its food. This resulted in the male regurgitating its food into the female’s open mouth. This allofeeding behaviour was identical to the manner in which a chick begs its parent for food. Notably, during this behaviour the female kept the attention of male when the chick tried to gain the male’s attention. It is proposed that mate allofeeding in Chinstrap Penguins was performed to strengthen the bond between the pair.\n\nAllofeeding between mates can also occur during courtship. Courtship allofeeding occurs in half of bird subfamilies and mainly appears in monogamous bird species. Courtship allofeeding is hypothesized to strengthen the bond between pairs or increase a female’s nutritional level before laying eggs. For example, in the Sichuan Jay (\"P. internigrans\"), females are fed by only one male during courtship. It is suggested that allofeeding the female during courtship, increases a female’s nutritional level before egg laying. This behaviour was also recorded in the Grey Jays (\"P. canadensis\"). Other species of birds display allofeeding during courtship. Additionally, courtship allofeeding in some birds species is hypothesized to strengthen the bond between pairs.\n\nA parent feeding a non-biological chick via bill-to-bill interactions is a form of allofeeding. Parental allofeeding occurs in all altricial species of birds to ensure proper growth, development, and to prevent starvation of their offspring. This form of allofeeding has been shown to be a form of parental care in some species, such as in King Penguins (\"A. patagonicus\"). King Penguins are pelagic seabirds. King Penguin chicks form dense groups called crèches during winter for social thermoregulation when food availability is low. The formation of crèches results from the parents interchangeably leaving starving chicks to gather food from the sea. A study by Lecomte et al., 2015 examined the allofeeding behaviour in King Penguins, in which they marked the white underbellies of 74 non-breeding adults and 103 breeding pairs with a unique dark colouring called dye-mark code of Nyanzol-D. Lecomte et al. (2015) found 22% of the marked adults feed 65% of the chicks in crèches, revealing that allofeeding behaviour was most common during the breeding season. Lecomte et al. (2015) also identified that most of the 22% of adult King Penguins demonstrating allofeeding behaviour were unable to successfully breed along with few breeders performing the behaviour. The allofeeding behaviour resulted in more feedings for chicks, which is consistent with study by Pierre et al. (1994) that showed that allofeeding in penguins increases the chick growth rate from 35g/day to 190g/day. From these results, Lecomte et al., (2015) concluded that allofeeding increased the survival rate of chicks in crèches. The results imply that parental allofeeding in King Penguins is an altruistic behaviour, where allofeeding benefits the young at a cost to the non-biological parent. Notably, no direct benefits to the non-biological parents have been described. The cost of allofeeding non-biological chicks resulted in no detrimental effects to the fitness of the alloparent, because the cost of allofeeding is low (several grams) when compared to the nutritional costs of an adult king penguin, which is several kilograms. However, it is suggested that allofeeding many chicks may cost each chick lost meals that can cause negative effects on the fitness of allofed chicks. In addition, allofeeding decreases when non-biological parents had offspring.\n\nThe Chinstrap Penguin (\"P. antarctica\") is another species of penguin that displays allofeeding. Allofeeding in the Chinstrap Penguin has been observed between the female and its offspring. Similar to mate allofeeding in this species, the offspring of a female will peck the side of the female’s bill to signal the female to regurgitate its food into the chick's open mouth.\n\nIn Sichuan Jays (\"P. Internigrans\"), females are not the only sex that participates in the allofeeding of their offspring. During their first week of life, the chicks are only fed by the male. The male forages and stores food in a pouch within its throat. At the nest, the male regurgitates the semi-digested food from its pouch into the mouths of its chicks. After the first week, the male continues to feed the chicks while the female begins feeding the chicks. The female uses the same method as the male.\n\nThere have been many reported cases of allofeeding between siblings in several species of birds. For example, the Arabian Babblers (\"T. sqamiceps\") are a territorial, desert inhibiting species of bird that participate in cooperative breeding. In this species, non-breeders show numerous types of cooperative behaviour, including allofeeding. Adult and immature Babblers, as well as previous and newly fledged Babblers, will frequently engage in allofeeding behaviour.\n\nCarlisle et al. (1986) revealed that Arabian Babblers participate in peer allofeeding in order to increase social rank, which increases fitness. This allofeeding behaviour is supported by the Zahavi's hypothesis. An individual (a dominate Babbler) can increase in social rank by allofed a subordinate Babbler. On the contrary, an individual (a subordinate Babbler) can decrease in social rank when they are allofed by a dominate Babbler. Subordinate Babblers have been observed refusing to be allofeed by dominate Babbler. The refusal resulted in the dominate Babbler becoming aggressive with the subordinate - hitting or chasing the subordinate. Dominate Babblers also showed the same aggressive behaviours when a subordinate tried to allofeed it.\n\nAnother species that exhibits peer allofeeding is the Barn Owl (\"T. alba\"). Barn Owl nest siblings establish a hierarchy for the sharing of food resources via vocal negotiations. It is suggested that Barn Owl nest siblings show peer allofeeding to reduce sibling competition in the food sharing hierarchy. Peer allofeeding observed in 60 nestling pairs revealed that the behaviour occurs by a donor sibling placing the food item on the ground in front of the receiver sibling, which transfers the food item to its bill using its talons. Alternatively, the donor sibling uses its bill to place the food item in the bill of the receiver sibling. As well, peer allofeeding behaviour in Barn Owl siblings is proposed to increase the inclusive fitness of the peer performing the allofeeding.\n\nIntraspecific allofeeding in Sichuan Jays (\"P. internigrans\") is performed during the nestling and fledging period by non-breeders. One to three non-breeders support a nesting breeding pair by feeding the chicks, regurgitating the food from their throat pouches. In 2009, Jing et al. determined that two non-breeders contributed to 44% of feedings in the nest of two Sichuan Jays. Jing et al. (2009) suggest that allofeeding behaviour contributes to increased nest survival.\n\nIn Sichuan Jays, allofeeding is hypothesized to be evolutionary selected. In this species, two to three non-breeders will allofeed the young of a breeding pair. The large body mass (21% heavier than Siberian Jays) of the Sichuan Jays, and the presence of more than one non-breeder, allows one non-breeder to ward off a predator while another non-breeder protects the young from additional predators. Both the large body mass of the non-breeders and the presence of multiple non-breeders reduces the risk of injury or death when predators are encountered. This reveals that the benefits of allofeeding the young outweighs the cost of injury or death of the non-breeder and/or chick when more than one non-breeder is present. Peer allofeeding has also been observed in the Gray Jay (\"P. canadensis\"). In the Gray Jay, non-breeders allofeed the young after fledging.\n\nNot all species of jays allofeed their young, such as the Siberian Jay (\"P. infaustus\"). In the Siberian Jays, non-breeders do not allofeed the chicks of a breeding pair. It is predicted that Siberian Jays do not display allofeeding because the cost of predation is too high. Siberian Jays are continuously threatened by a more dangerous predators, the Eurasian Sparrowhawk and Northern Goshawk, then Gray Jays, which are threatened by Eurasian red squirrel. One non-breeder per breeding pair and the small size (21% less body mass than the Sichuan Jays) of the Siberian Jays, in combination with continuous risk of predation, reveals that the non-breeding Siberian Jays are unable to confront predators and protect the nest simultaneously. This indicates that the cost of allofeeding the young is more costly to the non-breeder when one non-breeder is present because an encounter with a predator increases the risk of injury and death of both the young and the non-breeder. This reveals that the benefit of allofeeding the young does not exceed the cost of injury or death of non-breeder and/or young. This is consistent with the predator-avoidance hypothesis, suggesting that the cost of allofeeding in the Siberian Jays prevents allofeeding from being evolutionary selected.\n\n"}
{"id": "1787105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1787105", "title": "Animal sexual behaviour", "text": "Animal sexual behaviour\n\nAnimal sexual behaviour takes many different forms, including within the same species. Common mating or reproductively motivated systems include monogamy, polygyny, polyandry, polygamy and promiscuity. Other sexual behaviour may be reproductively motivated (e.g. sex apparently due to duress or coercion and situational sexual behaviour) or non-reproductively motivated (e.g. interspecific sexuality, sexual arousal from objects or places, sex with dead animals, homosexual sexual behaviour, and bisexual sexual behaviour).\n\nWhen animal sexual behaviour is reproductively motivated, it is often termed \"mating\" or \"copulation\"; for most non-human mammals, mating and copulation occur at oestrus (the most fertile period in the mammalian female's reproductive cycle), which increases the chances of successful impregnation. Some animal sexual behaviour involves competition, sometimes fighting, between multiple males. Females often select males for mating only if they appear strong and able to protect themselves. The male that wins a fight may also have the chance to mate with a larger number of females and will therefore pass on his genes to their offspring.\n\nHistorically, it was believed that only humans and a small number of other species performed sexual acts other than for reproduction, and that animals' sexuality was instinctive and a simple \"stimulus-response\" behaviour. However, in addition to homosexual behaviours, a range of species masturbate and may use objects as tools to help them do so. Sexual behaviour may be tied more strongly to establishment and maintenance of complex social bonds across a population which support its success in non-reproductive ways. Both reproductive and non-reproductive behaviours can be related to expressions of dominance over another animal or survival within a stressful situation (such as sex due to duress or coercion).\n\nIn sociobiology and behavioural ecology, the term \"mating system\" is used to describe the ways in which animal societies are structured in relation to sexual behaviour. The mating system specifies which males mate with which females, and under what circumstances. There are four basic systems:\n\nMonogamy occurs when one male mates with one female exclusively. A monogamous mating system is one in which individuals form long-lasting pairs and cooperate in raising offspring. These pairs may last for a lifetime, such as in pigeons, or it may occasionally change from one mating season to another, such as in emperor penguins. In contrast with tournament species, these pair-bonding species have lower levels of male aggression, competition and little sexual dimorphism. Zoologists and biologists now have evidence that monogamous pairs of animals are not always sexually exclusive. Many animals that form pairs to mate and raise offspring regularly engage in sexual activities with extra-pair partners. This includes previous examples, such as swans. Sometimes, these extra-pair sexual activities lead to offspring. Genetic tests frequently show that some of the offspring raised by a monogamous pair come from the female mating with an extra-pair male partner. These discoveries have led biologists to adopt new ways of talking about monogamy; According to Ulrich Reichard (2003):\nSocial monogamy refers to a male and female's social living arrangement (e.g., shared use of a territory, behaviour indicative of a social pair, and/or proximity between a male and female) without inferring any sexual interactions or reproductive patterns. In humans, social monogamy takes the form of monogamous marriage. Sexual monogamy is defined as an exclusive sexual relationship between a female and a male based on observations of sexual interactions. Finally, the term genetic monogamy is used when DNA analyses can confirm that a female-male pair reproduce exclusively with each other. A combination of terms indicates examples where levels of relationships coincide, e.g., sociosexual and sociogenetic monogamy describe corresponding social and sexual, and social and genetic monogamous relationships, respectively.\nWhatever makes a pair of animals socially monogamous does not necessarily make them sexually or genetically monogamous. Social monogamy, sexual monogamy, and genetic monogamy can occur in different combinations.\n\nSocial monogamy is relatively rare in the animal kingdom. The actual incidence of social monogamy varies greatly across different branches of the evolutionary tree. Over 90% of avian species are socially monogamous. This stands in contrast to mammals. Only 3% of mammalian species are socially monogamous, although up to 15% of primate species are. Social monogamy has also been observed in reptiles, fish, and insects.\n\nSexual monogamy is also rare among animals. Many socially monogamous species engage in extra-pair copulations, making them sexually non-monogamous. For example, while over 90% of birds are socially monogamous, \"on average, 30% or more of the baby birds in any nest [are] sired by someone other than the resident male.\" Patricia Adair Gowaty has estimated that, out of 180 different species of socially monogamous songbirds, only 10% are sexually monogamous.\n\nThe incidence of genetic monogamy, determined by DNA fingerprinting, varies widely across species. For a few rare species, the incidence of genetic monogamy is 100%, with all offspring genetically related to the socially monogamous pair. But genetic monogamy is strikingly low in other species. Barash and Lipton note:\nThe highest known frequency of extra-pair copulations are found among the fairy-wrens, lovely tropical creatures technically known as \"Malurus splendens\" and \"Malurus cyaneus\". More than 65% of all fairy-wren chicks are fathered by males outside the supposed breeding group.\nSuch low levels of genetic monogamy have surprised biologists and zoologists, forcing them to rethink the role of social monogamy in evolution. They can no longer assume social monogamy determines how genes are distributed in a species. The lower the rates of genetic monogamy among socially monogamous pairs, the less of a role social monogamy plays in determining how genes are distributed among offspring.\n\nPolygyny occurs when one male gets exclusive mating rights with multiple females. In some species, notably those with harem-like structures, only one of a few males in a group of females will mate. Technically, polygyny in sociobiology and zoology is defined as a system in which a male has a relationship with more than one female, but the females are predominantly bonded to a single male. Should the active male be driven out, killed, or otherwise removed from the group, in a number of species the new male will ensure that breeding resources are not wasted on another male's young. The new male may achieve this in many different ways, including:\n\n\nVon Haartman specifically described the mating behaviour of the European pied flycatcher as successive polygyny. Within this system, the males leave their home territory once their primary female lays her first egg. Males then create a second territory, presumably in order to attract a secondary female to breed. Even when they succeed at acquiring a second mate, the males typically return to the first female to exclusively provide for her and her offspring.\n\nPolygynous mating structures are estimated to occur in up to 90% of mammal species. As polygyny is the most common form of polygamy among vertebrates (including humans, to some extent), it has been studied far more extensively than polyandry or polygynandry.\n\nPolyandry occurs when one female gets exclusive mating rights with multiple males. In some species, such as redlip blennies, both polygyny and polyandry are observed.\n\nThe males in some deep sea anglerfishes are much smaller than the females. When they find a female they bite into her skin, releasing an enzyme that digests the skin of their mouth and her body and fusing the pair down to the blood-vessel level. The male then slowly atrophies, losing first his digestive organs, then his brain, heart, and eyes, ending as nothing more than a pair of gonads, which release sperm in response to hormones in the female's bloodstream indicating egg release. This extreme sexual dimorphism ensures that, when the female is ready to spawn, she has a mate immediately available. A single anglerfish female can \"mate\" with many males in this manner.\n\nPolygynandry occurs when multiple males mate indiscriminately with multiple females. The numbers of males and females need not be equal, and in vertebrate species studied so far, there are usually fewer males. Two examples of systems in primates are promiscuous mating chimpanzees and bonobos. These species live in social groups consisting of several males and several females. Each female copulates with many males, and vice versa. In bonobos, the amount of promiscuity is particularly striking because bonobos use sex to alleviate social conflict as well as to reproduce. This mutual promiscuity is the approach most commonly used by spawning animals, and is perhaps the \"original fish mating system.\" Common examples are forage fish, such as herrings, which form huge mating shoals in shallow water. The water becomes milky with sperm and the bottom is draped with millions of fertilised eggs.\n\nThe term polygamy is an umbrella term used to refer generally to non-monogamous matings. As such, polygamous relationships can be polygynous, polyandrous or polygynandrous. In a small number of species, individuals can display either polygamous or monogamous behaviour depending on environmental conditions. An example is the social wasp \"Apoica flavissima\". In some species, polygyny and polyandry is displayed by both sexes in the population. Polygamy in both sexes has been observed in red flour beetle (\"Tribolium castaneum\"). Polygamy is also seen in many Lepidoptera species including \"Mythimna unipuncta\" (true armyworm moth)\".\"\n\nA tournament species is one in which \"mating tends to be highly polygamous and involves high levels of male-male aggression and competition.\" Tournament behaviour often correlates with high levels of sexual dimorphism, examples of species including chimpanzees and baboons. Most polygamous species present high levels of tournament behaviour, with a notable exception being bonobos .\n\nFemale and male sexual behaviour differ in many species. Often, males are more active in initiating mating, and bear the more conspicuous sexual ornamentation like antlers and colourful plumage. This is a result of anisogamy, where sperm are smaller and much less costly (energetically) to produce than eggs. This difference in physiological cost means that males are more limited by the number of mates they can secure, while females are limited by the quality of genes of her mates, a phenomenon known as Bateman's principle. Many females also have extra reproductive burdens in that parental care often falls mainly, or exclusively, on them. Thus, females are more limited in their potential reproductive success. In species where males take on more of the reproductive costs, such as sea horses and jacanas, the role is reversed, and the females are larger, more aggressive and more brightly coloured than the males.\n\nIn hermaphroditic animals, the costs of parental care can be evenly distributed between the sexes, e.g. earthworms. In some species of planarians, sexual behaviour takes the form of penis fencing. In this form of copulation, the individual that first penetrates the other with the penis, forces the other to be female, thus carrying the majority of the cost of reproduction. Post mating, banana slugs will some times gnaw off their partners penis as an act of sperm competition called apophallation. This is costly as they must heal, and spend more energy courting conspecifics that can act as male and female. A hypothesis suggests these slugs may be able to compensate the loss of the male function by directing energy that would have been put towards it to the female function. In the grey slug, the sharing of cost leads to a spectacular display, where the mates suspend themselves high above the ground from a slime thread, ensuring none of them can refrain from taking on the cost of egg-bearer.\n\nMany animal species have specific mating (or breeding) periods e.g. (seasonal breeding) so that offspring are born or hatch at an optimal time. In marine species with limited mobility and external fertilisation like corals, sea urchins and clams, the timing of the common spawning is the only externally visible form of sexual behaviour. In areas with continuously high primary production, some species have a series of breeding seasons throughout the year. This is the case with most primates (who are primarily tropical and subtropical animals). Some animals (opportunistic breeders) breed dependent upon other conditions in their environment aside from time of year.\n\nMating seasons are often associated with changes to herd or group structure, and behavioural changes, including territorialism amongst individuals. These may be annual (e.g. wolves), biannual (e.g. dogs) or more frequently (e.g. horses). During these periods, females of most mammalian species are more mentally and physically receptive to sexual advances, a period scientifically described as estrous but commonly described as being \"in season\" or \"in heat\". Sexual behaviour may occur outside estrus, and such acts as do occur are not necessarily harmful.\n\nSome mammals (e.g. domestic cats, rabbits and camilidae) are termed \"induced ovulators\". For these species, the female ovulates due to an external stimulus during, or just prior, to mating, rather than ovulating cyclically or spontaneously. Stimuli causing induced ovulation include the sexual behaviour of coitus, sperm and pheromones. \nDomestic cats have penile spines. Upon withdrawal of a cat's penis, the spines rake the walls of the female's vagina, which may cause ovulation.\n\nFor many amphibians, an annual breeding cycle applies, typically regulated by ambient temperature, precipitation, availability of surface water and food supply. This breeding season is accentuated in temperate regions, in boreal climate the breeding season is typically concentrated to a few short days in the spring. Some species, such as the Rana Clamitans (green frog), spend from June to August defending their territory. In order to protect these territories, they use five vocalizations.\n\nLike many coral reef dwellers, the clownfish spawn around the time of the full moon in the wild. In a group of clownfish, there is a strict dominance hierarchy. The largest and most aggressive female is found at the top. Only two clownfish, a male and a female, in a group reproduce through external fertilisation. Clownfish are sequential hermaphrodites, meaning that they develop into males first, and when they mature, they become females. If the female clownfish is removed from the group, such as by death, one of the largest and most dominant males will become a female. The remaining males will move up a rank in the hierarchy.\n\nVarious neurohormones stimulate sexual wanting in animals. In general, studies have suggested that dopamine is involved in sexual incentive motivation, oxytocin and melanocortins in sexual attraction, and noradrenaline in sexual arousal. Vasopressin is also involved in the sexual behaviour of some animals.\n\nThe mating system of prairie voles is monogamous; after mating, they form a lifelong bond. In contrast, montane voles have a polygamous mating system. When montane voles mate, they form no strong attachments, and separate after copulation. Studies on the brains of these two species have found that it is two neurohormones and their respective receptors that are responsible for these differences in mating strategies. Male prairie voles release vasopressin after copulation with a partner, and an attachment to their partner then develops. Female prairie voles release oxytocin after copulation with a partner, and similarly develop an attachment to their partner.\n\nNeither male nor female montane voles release high quantities of oxytocin or vasopressin when they mate. Even when injected with these neurohormones, their mating system does not change. In contrast, if prairie voles are injected with the neurohormones, they may form a lifelong attachment, even if they have not mated. It's believed that the differing response to the neurohormones between the two species is due to a difference in the number of oxytocin and vasopressin receptors. Prairie voles have a greater number of oxytocin and vasopressin receptors compared to montane voles, and are therefore more sensitive to those two neurohormones. It's believed that it's the quantity of receptors, rather than the quantity of the hormones, that determines the mating system and bond-formation of either species.\n\nMother rats experience a postparum estrus which makes them highly motivated to mate. However, they also have a strong motivation to protect their newly born pups. As a consequence, the mother rat solicits males to the nest but simultaneously becomes aggressive towards them to protect her young. If the mother rat is given injections of an oxytocin receptor antagonist, they no longer experience these maternal motivations.\n\nProlactin influences social bonding in rats.\n\nOxytocin plays a similar role in non-human primates as it does in humans.\n\nGrooming, sex, and cuddling frequencies correlate positively with levels of oxytocin. As the level of oxytocin increases so does sexual motivation. While oxytocin plays a major role in parent child relationships, it is also found to play a role in adult sexual relationships. Its secretion affects the nature of the relationship or if there will even be a relationship at all.\n\nStudies have shown that oxytocin is higher in monkeys in lifelong monogamous relationships compared to monkeys which are single. Furthermore, the oxytocin levels of the couples correlate positively; when the oxytocin secretion of one increases the other one also increases. Higher levels of oxytocin are related to monkeys expressing more behaviours such as cuddling, grooming and sex, while lower levels of oxytocin reduce motivation for these activities.\n\nResearch on oxytocin's role in the animal brain suggests that it plays less of a role in behaviours of love and affection than previously believed. \"When oxytocin was first discovered in 1909, it was thought mostly to influence a mother’s labour contractions and milk let-down. Then, in the 1990s, research with prairie voles found that giving them a dose of oxytocin resulted in the formation of a bond with their future mate (Azar, 40).\" Oxytocin has since been treated by the media as the sole player in the \"love and mating game\" in mammals. This view, however, is proving to be false as, \"most hormones don’t influence behaviour directly. Rather, they affect thinking and emotions in variable ways (Azar, 40).\" There is much more involved in sexual behaviour in the mammalian animal than oxytocin and vasopressin can explain.\n\nIt is often assumed that animals do not have sex for pleasure, or alternatively that humans, pigs, bonoboes (and perhaps dolphins and one or two more species of primates) are the only species that do. This is sometimes stated as \"animals mate only for reproduction\". This view is considered a misconception by some scholars. Jonathan Balcombe argues that the prevalence of non-reproductive sexual behaviour in certain species suggests that sexual stimulation is pleasurable. He also points to the presence of the clitoris in some female mammals, and evidence for female orgasm in primates. On the other hand, it is impossible to know the subjective feelings of animals, and the notion that non-human animals experience emotions similar to humans is a contentious subject.\n\nA 2006 Danish Animal Ethics Council report, which examined current knowledge of animal sexuality in the context of legal queries concerning sexual acts by humans, has the following comments, primarily related to domestically common animals:\nEven though the evolution-related purpose of mating can be said to be reproduction, it is not actually the creating of offspring which originally causes them to mate. It is probable that they mate because they are motivated for the actual copulation, and because this is connected with a positive experience. It is therefore reasonable to assume that there is some form of pleasure or satisfaction connected with the act. This assumption is confirmed by the behaviour of males, who in the case of many species are prepared to work to get access to female animals, especially if the female animal is in oestrus, and males who for breeding purposes are used to having sperm collected become very eager, when the equipment they associate with the collection is taken out.\n\nThere is nothing in female mammals' anatomy or physiology that contradicts that stimulation of the sexual organs and mating is able to be a positive experience. For instance, the clitoris acts in the same way as with women, and scientific studies have shown that the success of reproduction is improved by stimulation of clitoris on (among other species) cows and mares in connection with insemination, because it improves the transportation of the sperm due to contractions of the inner genitalia. This probably also applies to female animals of other animal species, and contractions in the inner genitals are seen e.g. also during orgasm for women. It is therefore reasonable to assume that sexual intercourse may be linked with a positive experience for female animals.\nKoinophilia is the love of the \"normal\" or phenotypically common (from the Greek, \"koinos\", meaning \"the usual\" or \"common\"). The term was introduced to scientific literature in 1990, and refers to the tendency of animals seeking a mate to prefer that mate not to have any unusual, peculiar or deviant features. Similarly, animals preferentially choose mates with low fluctuating asymmetry. \n\nThe field of study of sexuality in non-human species was a long-standing taboo. In the past, researchers sometimes failed to observe, mis-categorising and mis-described sexual behaviour which did not meet their preconceptions (mainly from western puritanism). In earlier periods, bias tended to support what would now be described as conservative sexual mores. An example of overlooking behaviour relates to descriptions of giraffe mating:\nWhen nine out of ten pairings occur between males, \"[e]very male that sniffed a female was reported as sex, while anal intercourse with orgasm between males was only [categorized as] 'revolving around' dominance, competition or greetings.\" \nIn the 21st century, liberal social or sexual views are often projected upon animal subjects of research. Popular discussions of bonobos are a frequently cited example. Current research frequently expresses views such as that of the Natural History Museum at the University of Oslo, which in 2006 held an exhibition on animal sexuality:\nMany researchers have described homosexuality as something altogether different from sex. They must realise that animals can have sex with who they will, when they will and without consideration to a researcher's ethical principles.\nOther animal activities may be misinterpreted due to the frequency and context in which animals perform the behaviour. For example, domestic ruminants display behaviours such as mounting and head-butting. This often occurs when the animals are establishing dominance relationships and are not necessarily sexually motivated. Careful analysis must be made to interpret what animal motivations are being expressed by those behaviours.\n\nCopulation is the union of the male and female sex organs, the innate sexual activity specifically organized to transmit male sperm into the body of the female.\n\nIn non-primate mammals (for example, rodents, canines, felines, bovines, and equines), the anatomy of the reproductive organs and some circuits of the nervous system are specifically organized for heterosexual copulation.\n\nAlternative male strategies which allow small males to engage in cuckoldry can develop in species such as fish where spawning is dominated by large and aggressive males. Cuckoldry is a variant of polyandry, and can occur with \"sneak spawners\". A sneak spawner is a male that rushes in to join the spawning rush of a spawning pair. A spawning rush occurs when a fish makes a burst of speed, usually on a near vertical incline, releasing gametes at the apex, followed by a rapid return to the lake or sea floor or fish aggregation. Sneaking males do not take part in courtship. In salmon and trout, for example, \"jack males\" are common. These are small silvery males that migrate upstream along with the standard, large, hook-nosed males and that spawn by sneaking into redds to release sperm simultaneously with a mated pair. This behaviour is an evolutionarily stable strategy for reproduction, because it is favoured by natural selection just like the \"standard\" strategy of large males.\n\nHermaphroditism occurs when a given individual in a species possesses both male and female reproductive organs, or can alternative between possessing first one, and then the other. Hermaphroditism is common in invertebrates but rare in vertebrates. It can be contrasted with gonochorism, where each individual in a species is either male or female, and remains that way throughout their lives. Most fish are gonochorists, but hermaphroditism is known to occur in 14 families of teleost fishes.\n\nUsually hermaphrodites are \"sequential\", meaning they can switch sex, usually from female to male (protogyny). This can happen if a dominant male is removed from a group of females. The largest female in the harem can switch sex over a few days and replace the dominant male. This is found amongst coral reef fishes such as groupers, parrotfishes and wrasses. It is less common for a male to switch to a female (protandry). As an example, most wrasses are protogynous hermaphrodites within a haremic mating system. Hermaphroditism allows for complex mating systems. Wrasses exhibit three different mating systems: polygynous, lek-like, and promiscuous mating systems.\n\nSexual cannibalism is a behaviour in which a female animal kills and consumes the male before, during, or after copulation. Sexual cannibalism confers fitness advantages to both the male and female. Sexual cannibalism is common among insects, arachnids and amphipods. There is also evidence of sexual cannibalism in gastropods and copepods.\n\nSex in a forceful or apparently coercive context has been documented in a variety of species. In some herbivorous herd species, or species where males and females are very different in size, the male dominates sexually by force and size.\n\nSome species of birds have been observed combining sexual intercourse with apparent violent assault; these include ducks, and geese. Female white-fronted bee-eaters are subjected to forced copulations. When females emerge from their nest burrows, males sometimes force them to the ground and mate with them. Such forced copulations are made preferentially on females who are laying and who may therefore lay eggs fertilized by the male.\n\nIn the water beetle genus \"Acilius\", an \"evolutionary arms race\" between the two sexes means that there is no courtship system for these beetles. Their mating behaviours include males holding females underwater until exhausted, and allowing only occasional access to the surface to breathe for up to six hours (to prevent them breeding with other males), and females which have a variety of body shapings (to prevent males from gaining a grip).\n\nIt has been reported that young male elephants in South Africa sexually coerced and killed rhinoceroses. This interpretation of the elephants' behaviour was disputed by one of the original study's authors, who said there was \"nothing sexual about these attacks\".\n\nParthenogenesis is a form of asexual reproduction in which growth and development of embryos occur without fertilisation. Technically, parthenogenesis is not a behaviour, however, sexual behaviours may be involved.\n\nWhip-tailed lizard females have the ability to reproduce through parthenogenesis and as such males are rare and sexual breeding non-standard. Females engage in \"pseudocopulation\" to stimulate ovulation, with their behaviour following their hormonal cycles; during low levels of oestrogen, these (female) lizards engage in \"masculine\" sexual roles. Those animals with currently high oestrogen levels assume \"feminine\" sexual roles. Lizards that perform the courtship ritual have greater fecundity than those kept in isolation due to an increase in hormones triggered by the sexual behaviours. So, even though asexual whiptail lizards populations lack males, sexual stimuli still increase reproductive success. From an evolutionary standpoint these females are passing their full genetic code to all of their offspring rather than the 50% of genes that would be passed in sexual reproduction.\n\nIt is rare to find true parthenogenesis in fishes, where females produce female offspring with no input from males. All-female species include the Texas silverside, \"Menidia clarkhubbsi\" as well as a complex of Mexican mollies.\n\nParthenogenesis has been recorded in 70 vertebrate species including hammerhead sharks, blacktip sharks, amphibians\nand crayfish.\n\nUnisexuality occurs when a species is all-male or all-female. Unisexuality occurs in some fish species, and can take complex forms. \"Squalius alburnoides\", a minnow found in several river basins in Portugal and Spain, appears to be an all-male species. The existence of this species illustrates the potential complexity of mating systems in fish. The species originated as a hybrid between two species, and is diploid, but not hermaphroditic. It can have triploid and tetraploid forms, including all-female forms that reproduce mainly through hybridogenesis.\n\n\nThere is a range of behaviours that animals perform which appear to be sexually motivated but which can not result in reproduction. These include:\n\n\nSeahorses, once considered to be monogamous species with pairs mating for life, were described in a 2007 study as \"promiscuous, flighty, and more than a little bit gay\". Scientists at 15 aquaria studied 90 seahorses of three species. Of 3,168 sexual encounters, 37% were same-sex acts. Flirting was common (up to 25 potential partners a day of both sexes); only one species (the British spiny seahorse) included faithful representatives, and for these 5 of 17 were faithful, 12 were not. Bisexual behaviour was widespread and considered \"both a great surprise and a shock\", with big-bellied seahorses of both sexes not showing partner preference. 1,986 contacts were male-female, 836 were female-female and 346 were male-male.\n\nThe bonobo is a fully bisexual species. Both males and females engage in sexual behaviour with the same and the opposite sex, with females being particularly noted for engaging in sexual behaviour with each other and at up to 75% of sexual activity being nonreproductive, as being sexually active does not necessarily correlate with their ovulation cycles. Sexual activity occurs between almost all ages and sexes of bonobo societies. Primatologist Frans de Waal believes that bonobos use sexual activity to resolve conflict between individuals. Immature bonobos, contrariwise, perform genital contact when relaxed.\n\nMacaque\n\nSimilar same-sex sexual behaviours occur in both male and female macaques. It is thought to be done for pleasure as an erect male mounts and thrusts upon or into another male. Sexual receptivity can also be indicated by red faces and shrieking. Mutual ejaculation after a combination of anal intercourse and masturbation has also been witnessed, although it may be rare. In comparison to socio-sexual behaviours such as dominance displays, homosexual mounts last longer, happen in series, and usually involves pelvic thrusting.\n\nFemales are also thought to participate for pleasure as VPA (vulvar, perineal, and anal) stimulation is part of these interactions. The stimulation can come from their own tails, mounting their partner, thrusting, contact between both VPAs, or a combination of these.\n\nMale bottlenose dolphins have been observed working in pairs to follow or restrict the movement of a female for weeks at a time, waiting for her to become sexually receptive. The same pairs have also been observed engaging in intense sexual play with each other. Janet Mann, a professor of biology and psychology at Georgetown University, argues that the common same-sex behaviour among male dolphin calves is about bond formation and benefits the species evolutionarily. They cite studies that have shown the dolphins later in life are bisexual and the male bonds forged from homosexuality work for protection as well as locating females with which to reproduce. In 1991, an English man was prosecuted for allegedly having sexual contact with a dolphin. The man was found not guilty after it was revealed at trial that the dolphin was known to tow bathers through the water by hooking his penis around them.\n\nThe female spotted hyena has a unique urinary-genital system, closely resembling the penis of the male, called a pseudo-penis. Dominance relationships with strong sexual elements are routinely observed between related females. They are notable for using visible sexual arousal as a sign of submission but not dominance in males as well as females (females have a sizable erectile clitoris). It is speculated that to facilitate this, their sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems may be partially reversed in respect to their reproductive organs.\n\nMammals mate by vaginal copulation. To achieve this, the male usually mounts the female from behind. The female may exhibit lordosis in which she arches her back ventrally to facilitate entry of the penis. Amongst the land mammals, other than humans, only bonobos mate in a face-to-face position, as the females' anatomy seems to reflect, although ventro-ventral copulation has also been observed in \"Rhabdomys.\" Some sea mammals copulate in a belly-to-belly position. Some camelids mate in a lying-down position. In most mammals ejaculation occurs after multiple intromissions, but in most primates, copulation consists of one brief intromission.\nIn most ruminant species, a single pelvic thrust occurs during copulation. In most deer species, a copulatory jump also occurs.\n\nDuring mating, a \"copulatory tie\" occurs in mammals such as fossas, canids and Japanese martens. A \"copulatory lock\" also occurs in some primate species, such as \"Galago senegalensis.\"\n\nThe copulatory behavior of many mammalian species is affected by sperm competition.\n\nSome females have concealed fertility, making it difficult for males to evaluate if a female is fertile. This is costly as ejaculation expends much energy.\n\nInvertebrates are often hermaphrodites. Some hermaphroditic land snails begin mating with an elaborate tactile courting ritual. The two snails circle around each other for up to six hours, touching with their tentacles, and biting lips and the area of the genital pore, which shows some preliminary signs of the eversion of the penis. As the snails approach mating, hydraulic pressure builds up in the blood sinus surrounding an organ housing a sharpened dart. The dart is made of calcium carbonate or chitin, and is called a love dart. Each snail manoeuvres to get its genital pore in the best position, close to the other snail's body. Then, when the body of one snail touches the other snail's genital pore, it triggers the firing of the love dart. After the snails have fired their darts, they copulate and exchange sperm as a separate part of the mating progression. The love darts are covered with a mucus that contains a hormone-like substance that facilitates the survival of the sperm.\n\nPenis fencing is a mating behaviour engaged in by certain species of flatworm, such as \"Pseudobiceros bedfordi\". Species which engage in the practice are hermaphroditic, possessing both eggs and sperm-producing testes. The species \"fence\" using two-headed dagger-like penises which are pointed, and white in colour. One organism inseminates the other. The sperm is absorbed through pores in the skin, causing fertilisation.\n\nCorals can be both gonochoristic (unisexual) and hermaphroditic, each of which can reproduce sexually and asexually. Reproduction also allows corals to settle new areas. Corals predominantly reproduce sexually. 25% of hermatypic corals (stony corals) form single sex (gonochoristic) colonies, while the rest are hermaphroditic. About 75% of all hermatypic corals \"broadcast spawn\" by releasing gametes eggs and sperm into the water to spread offspring. The gametes fuse during fertilisation to form a microscopic larva called a planula, typically pink and elliptical in shape. Synchronous spawning is very typical on the coral reef and often, even when multiple species are present, all corals spawn on the same night. This synchrony is essential so that male and female gametes can meet. Corals must rely on environmental cues, varying from species to species, to determine the proper time to release gametes into the water. The cues involve lunar changes, sunset time, and possibly chemical signalling. Synchronous spawning may form hybrids and is perhaps involved in coral speciation.\n\nButterflies spend much time searching for mates. When the male spots a mate, he will fly closer and release pheromones. He then performs a special courtship dance to attract the female. If the female appreciates the dancing she may join him. Then they join their bodies together end to end at their abdomens. Here, the male passes the sperm to the female's egg-laying tube, which will soon be fertilised by the sperm.\n\nMany animals make plugs of mucus to seal the female's orifice after mating. Normally such plugs are secreted by the male, to block subsequent partners. In spiders the female can assist the process. Spider sex is unusual in that males transfer their sperm to the female on small limbs called pedipalps. They use these to pick their sperm up from their genitals and insert it into the female's sexual orifice, rather than copulating directly. On the 14 occasions a sexual plug was made, the female produced it without assistance from the male. On ten of these occasions the male's pedipalps then seemed to get stuck while he was transferring the sperm (which is rarely the case in other species of spider), and he had great difficulty freeing himself. In two of those ten instances, he was eaten as a result.\n\nResearch into human evolution confirms that, in some cases, interspecies sexual activity may have been responsible for the evolution of new species (speciation). Analysis of animal genes found evidence that after humans had diverged from other apes, interspecies mating nonetheless occurred regularly enough to change certain genes in the new gene pool. Researchers found that the X chromosomes of humans and chimps may have diverged around 1.2 million years after the other chromosomes. One possible explanation is that modern humans emerged from a hybrid of human and chimp populations. A 2012 study questioned this explanation, concluding that \"there is no strong reason to involve complicated factors in explaining the autosomal data\".\n\nWhen close relatives mate, progeny may exhibit the detrimental effects of inbreeding depression. Inbreeding depression is predominantly caused by the homozygous expression of recessive deleterious alleles. Over time, inbreeding depression may lead to the evolution of inbreeding avoidance behaviour. Several examples of animal behaviour that reduce mating of close relatives and inbreeding depression are described next.\n\nReproductively active female naked mole-rats tend to associate with unfamiliar males (usually non-kin), whereas reproductively inactive females do not discriminate. The preference of reproductively active females for unfamiliar males is interpreted as an adaptation for avoiding inbreeding.\n\nWhen mice inbreed with close relatives in their natural habitat, there is a significant detrimental effect on progeny survival. In the house mouse, the major urinary protein (MUP) gene cluster provides a highly polymorphic scent signal of genetic identity that appears to underlie kin recognition and inbreeding avoidance. Thus there are fewer matings between mice sharing MUP haplotypes than would be expected if there were random mating.\n\nMeerkat females appear to be able to discriminate the odour of their kin from the odour of their non-kin. Kin recognition is a useful ability that facilitates both cooperation among relatives and the avoidance of inbreeding. When mating does occur between meerkat relatives, it often results in inbreeding depression. Inbreeding depression was evident for a variety of traits: pup mass at emergence from the natal burrow, hind-foot length, growth until independence and juvenile survival.\n\nThe grey-sided vole (\"Myodes rufocanus\") exhibits male-biased dispersal as a means of avoiding incestuous matings. Among those matings that do involve inbreeding the number of weaned juveniles in litters is significantly smaller than that from non-inbred litters indicating inbreeding depression.\n\nIn natural populations of the bird \"Parus major\" (great tit), inbreeding is likely avoided by dispersal of individuals from their birthplace, which reduces the chance of mating with a close relative.\n\nToads display breeding site fidelity, as do many amphibians. Individuals that return to natal ponds to breed will likely encounter siblings as potential mates. Although incest is possible, \"Bufo americanus\" siblings rarely mate. These toads likely recognise and actively avoid close kins as mates. Advertisement vocalisations by males appear to serve as cues by which females recognise their kin.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "274193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274193", "title": "Aortic dissection", "text": "Aortic dissection\n\nAortic dissection (AD) occurs when an injury to the innermost layer of the aorta allows blood to flow between the layers of the aortic wall, forcing the layers apart. In most cases this is associated with a sudden onset of severe chest or back pain, often described as \"tearing\" in character. Also, vomiting, sweating, and lightheadedness may occur. Other symptoms may result from decreased blood supply to other organs such as stroke or mesenteric ischemia. Aortic dissection can quickly lead to death from not enough blood flow to the heart or complete rupture of the aorta.\nAortic dissection is more common in those with a history of high blood pressure, a number of connective tissue diseases that affect blood vessel wall strength such as Marfan syndrome and Ehlers Danlos syndrome, a bicuspid aortic valve, and previous heart surgery. Major trauma, smoking, cocaine use, pregnancy, a thoracic aortic aneurysm, inflammation of arteries, and abnormal lipid levels are also associated with an increased risk. The diagnosis is suspected based on symptoms with medical imaging such as computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, or ultrasound used to confirm and further evaluate the dissection. The two main types are Stanford type A which involves the first part of the aorta and type B which does not.\nPrevention is by blood pressure control and not smoking. Treatment of aortic dissection depends on the part of the aorta involved. Dissections that involve the first part of the aorta usually require surgery. Surgery may be done either by an opening in the chest or by endovascular aneurysm repair; carried out from inside the blood vessels. Dissections that involve the second part of the aorta can typically be treated with medications that lower blood pressure and heart-rate, unless there are complications.\nAortic dissection is relatively rare, occurring at an estimated rate of three per 100,000 people per year. It is more common in males than females. The typical age at diagnosis is 63, with about 10% of cases occurring before 40. Without treatment, about half of people with type A die within three days and about 10% of people with type B die within a month. The first case of aortic dissection described was in the examination of King George II of Great Britain following his death in 1760. Surgery for aortic dissection was introduced in the 1950s by Michael E. DeBakey.\nAbout 96% of individuals with aortic dissection present with severe pain that had a sudden onset. The pain may be described as a tearing, stabbing, or sharp sensation; 17% of individuals feel the pain migrate as the dissection extends down the aorta. The location of pain is associated with the location of the dissection. Anterior chest pain is associated with dissections involving the ascending aorta, while interscapular (back) pain is associated with descending aortic dissections. If the pain is pleuritic in nature, it may suggest acute pericarditis caused by bleeding into the pericardial sac. This is a particularly dangerous eventuality, suggesting that acute pericardial tamponade may be imminent. Pericardial tamponade is the most common cause of death from aortic dissection.\n\nWhile the pain may be confused with the pain of a myocardial infarction (heart attack), aortic dissection is usually not associated with the other signs that suggest myocardial infarction, including heart failure and ECG changes.\n\nIndividuals with aortic dissection who do not present with pain have a chronic dissection.\n\nLess common symptoms that may be seen in the setting of aortic dissection include congestive heart failure (7%), fainting (9%), stroke (6%), ischemic peripheral neuropathy, paraplegia, and cardiac arrest. If the individual had a fainting episode, about half the time it is due to bleeding into the pericardium leading to pericardial tamponade.\n\nNeurological complications of aortic dissection (i.e., stroke and paralysis) are due to the involvement of one or more arteries supplying portions of the central nervous system.\n\nIf the aortic dissection involves the abdominal aorta, compromise of the branches of the abdominal aorta is possible. In abdominal aortic dissections, compromise of one or both renal arteries occurs in 5–8% of cases, while mesenteric ischemia (ischemia of the intestines) occurs about 3% of the time.\n\nPeople with an aortic dissection often have a history of high blood pressure; the blood pressure is quite variable at presentation with acute aortic dissection, and tends to be higher in individuals with a distal dissection. In individuals with a proximal aortic dissection, 36% present with hypertension, while 25% present with hypotension. Proximal aortic dissections tend to be more associated with weakening of the vascular wall due to cystic medial degeneration. In those who present with distal (type B) aortic dissections, 60-70% present with high blood pressure, while 2-3% present with low blood pressure.\n\nSevere hypotension at presentation is a grave prognostic indicator. It is usually associated with pericardial tamponade, severe aortic insufficiency, or rupture of the aorta. Accurate measurement of the blood pressure is important. Pseudohypotension (falsely low blood-pressure measurement) may occur due to involvement of the brachiocephalic artery (supplying the right arm) or the left subclavian artery (supplying the left arm).\n\nAortic insufficiency (AI) occurs in half to two-thirds of ascending aortic dissections, and the diastolic heart murmur of aortic insufficiency is audible in about 32% of proximal dissections. The intensity (loudness) of the murmur depends on the blood pressure and may be inaudible in the event of low blood pressure.\n\nMultiple causes exist for AI in the setting of ascending aortic dissection. The dissection may dilate the annulus of the aortic valve, so that the leaflets of the valve cannot coapt. Another mechanism is that the dissection may extend into the aortic root and detach the aortic valve leaflets. The third mechanism is that if there was an extensive intimal tear, the intimal flap may prolapse into the LV outflow tract, causing intimal intussusception into the aortic valve preventing proper valve closure.\n\nMyocardial infarction (heart attack) occurs in 1–2% of aortic dissections. The cause of the infarction is involvement of the coronary arteries, which supply the heart with oxygenated blood, in the dissection. The right coronary artery is involved more commonly than the left coronary artery. If the myocardial infarction is treated with thrombolytic therapy, the mortality increases to over 70%, mostly due to bleeding into the pericardial sac causing cardiac tamponade.\n\nBecause aortic dissection may present to the emergency room physician similar to a myocardial infarction, the physician must be careful to make the proper diagnosis prior to initiating treatment for myocardial infarction since the treatment regimen for myocardial infarction can be lethal to an individual presenting with aortic dissection.\n\nA pleural effusion (fluid collection in the space between the lungs and the chest wall or diaphragm) can be due to either blood from a transient rupture of the aorta or fluid due to an inflammatory reaction around the aorta. If a pleural effusion were to develop due to an aortic dissection, it is more commonly in the left hemithorax rather than the right hemithorax.\n\nAortic dissection is associated with hypertension (high blood pressure) and many connective tissue disorders. Vasculitis (inflammation of an artery) is rarely associated with aortic dissection. It can also be the result of chest trauma. About 72 to 80% of individuals who present with an aortic dissection have a previous history of hypertension. Illicit drug use with stimulants such as cocaine and methamphetamine is also a modifiable risk factor for AD. It can also be caused by smoking.\n\nA bicuspid aortic valve (a type of congenital heart disease involving the aortic valve) is found in 7–14% of individuals who have an aortic dissection. These individuals are prone to dissection in the ascending aorta. The risk of dissection in individuals with bicuspid aortic valve is not associated with the degree of stenosis of the valve.\n\nConnective tissue disorders such as Marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, and Loeys–Dietz syndrome increase the risk of aortic dissection. Similarly, vasculitides such as Takayasu's arteritis, giant cell arteritis, polyarteritis nodosa, and Behcet's disease have been associated with a subsequent aortic dissection. Marfan's syndrome is found in 5-9% of individuals who had an aortic dissection. In this subset, the incidence in young individuals is increased. Individuals with Marfan syndrome tend to have aneurysms of the aorta and are more prone to proximal dissections of the aorta.\n\nTurner syndrome also increases the risk of aortic dissection, by aortic root dilatation.\n\nChest trauma leading to aortic dissection can be divided into two groups based on cause: blunt chest trauma (commonly seen in car accidents) and iatrogenic. Iatrogenic causes include trauma during cardiac catheterization or due to an intra-aortic balloon pump.\n\nAortic dissection may be a late sequela of heart surgery. About 18% of individuals who present with an acute aortic dissection have a history of open-heart surgery. Individuals who have undergone aortic valve replacement for aortic insufficiency are at particularly high risk because aortic insufficiency causes increased blood flow in the ascending aorta. This can cause dilatation and weakening of the walls of the ascending aorta.\n\nSyphilis only potentially causes aortic dissection in its tertiary stage.\n\nAs with all other arteries, the aorta is made up of three layers, the intima, the media, and the adventitia. The intima is in direct contact with the blood inside the vessel, and mainly consists of a layer of endothelial cells on a basement membrane; the media contains connective and muscle tissue, and the vessel is protected on the outside by the adventitia, comprising connective tissue.\n\nIn an aortic dissection, blood penetrates the intima and enters the media layer. The high pressure rips the tissue of the media apart along the laminated plane splitting the inner two-thirds and the outer one-third of the media apart. This can propagate along the length of the aorta for a variable distance forward or backwards. Dissections that propagate towards the iliac bifurcation (with the flow of blood) are called anterograde dissections and those that propagate towards the aortic root (opposite of the flow of blood) are called retrograde dissections. The initial tear is usually within 100 mm of the aortic valve, so a retrograde dissection can easily compromise the pericardium leading to a hemopericardium. Anterograde dissections may propagate all the way to the iliac bifurcation of the aorta, rupture the aortic wall, or recanalize into the intravascular lumen leading to a double-barrel aorta. The double-barrel aorta relieves the pressure of blood flow and reduces the risk of rupture. Rupture leads to hemorrhaging into a body cavity, and prognosis depends on the area of rupture. Retroperitoneal and pericardial ruptures are both possible.\nThe initiating event in an aortic dissection is a tear in the intimal lining of the aorta. Due to the high pressures in the aorta, blood enters the media at the point of the tear. The force of the blood entering the media causes the tear to extend. It may extend proximally (closer to the heart) or distally (away from the heart) or both. The blood travels through the media, creating a false lumen (the true lumen is the normal conduit of blood in the aorta). Separating the false lumen from the true lumen is a layer of intimal tissue known as the intimal flap.\n\nThe vast majority of aortic dissections originate with an intimal tear in either the ascending aorta (65%), the aortic arch (10%), or just distal to the ligamentum arteriosum in the descending thoracic aorta (20%).\n\nAs blood flows down the false lumen, it may cause secondary tears in the intima. Through these secondary tears, the blood can re-enter the true lumen.\n\nWhile it is not always clear why an intimal tear may occur, quite often it involves degeneration of the collagen and elastin that make up the media. This is known as cystic medial necrosis and is most commonly associated with Marfan syndrome and is also associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.\n\nIn about 13% of aortic dissections, no evidence of an intimal tear is found. In these cases, the inciting event is thought to be an intramural hematoma (caused by bleeding within the media). Since no direct connection exists between the true lumen and the false lumen in these cases, diagnosing an aortic dissection by aortography is difficult if the cause is an intramural hematoma. An aortic dissection secondary to an intramural hematoma should be treated the same as one caused by an intimal tear.\n\nBecause of the varying symptoms of aortic dissection, the diagnosis is sometimes difficult to make. Concern should be increased in those with low blood pressure, neurological problems, and an unequal pulses.\n\nWhile taking a good history from the individual may be strongly suggestive of an aortic dissection, the diagnosis cannot always be made by history and physical signs alone. Often, the diagnosis is made by visualization of the intimal flap on a diagnostic imaging test. Common tests used to diagnose an aortic dissection include a CT scan of the chest with iodinated contrast material and a transesophageal echocardiogram. The proximity of the aorta to the esophagus allows the use of higher-frequency ultrasound for better anatomical images. Other tests that may be used include an aortogram or magnetic resonance angiogram of the aorta. Each of these tests has pros and cons, and they do not have equal sensitivities and specificities in the diagnosis of aortic dissection.\n\nIn general, the imaging technique chosen is based on the pretest likelihood of the diagnosis, availability of the testing modality, patient stability, and the sensitivity and specificity of the test.\n\nA measurement of blood D-dimer level may be useful in diagnostic evaluation. A level less than 500 ng/ml may be considered evidence against a diagnosis of aortic dissection, although this guideline is only applicable in cases deemed \"low risk\" and within 24 hours of symptom onset. The American Heart Association does not advise using this test in making the diagnosis, as evidence is still tentative.\n\nChest radiography may demonstrate a change in the morphology of the thoracic aorta which can be seen in aortic dissection. Classically, new widening of the mediastinum on radiograph is of moderate sensitivity for detecting an ascending aortic dissection; however, this finding is of low specificity, as many other conditions can cause apparent widening of the mediastinum.\n\nThere are several other associated radiographic findings:\nImportantly, about 12 to 20% of aortic dissections are not detectable by chest radiograph; therefore, a \"normal\" chest radiograph does not rule out aortic dissection. If there is high clinical suspicion, a more sensitive imaging test (CT angiogram, MR angiography, or transesophageal echo) may be warranted.\n\nComputed tomography angiography is a fast, noninvasive test that gives an accurate three-dimensional view of the aorta. These images are produced by taking rapid, thin-cut slices of the chest and abdomen, and combining them in the computer to create cross-sectional slices. To delineate the aorta to the accuracy necessary to make the proper diagnosis, an iodinated contrast material is injected into a peripheral vein. Contrast is injected and the scan performed using a bolus tracking method. This type of scan is timed to an injection to capture the contrast as it enters the aorta. The scan then follows the contrast as it flows through the vessel. It has a sensitivity of 96 to 100% and a specificity of 96 to 100%. Disadvantages include the need for iodinated contrast material and the inability to diagnose the site of the intimal tear.\n\nMagnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is also used for the detection and assessment of aortic dissection, with a sensitivity of 98% and a specificity of 98%. An MRI examination of the aorta produces a three-dimensional reconstruction of the aorta, allowing the physician to determine the location of the intimal tear and the involvement of branch vessels, and to locate any secondary tears. It is a noninvasive test, does not require the use of iodinated contrast material, and can detect and quantitate the degree of aortic insufficiency.\n\nThe disadvantage of the MRI scan in the face of aortic dissection is that it has limited availability and is often located only in larger hospitals, and the scan is relatively time-consuming, which may be dangerous in people who are already very unwell. Due to the high-intensity magnetic fields used during MRI, it is contraindicated in individuals with metallic implants. In addition, many individuals experience claustrophobia while in the MRI scanning tube.\n\nThe transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) is a relatively good test in the diagnosis of aortic dissection, with a sensitivity up to 98% and a specificity up to 97%. It has become the preferred imaging modality for suspected aortic dissection. It is a relatively noninvasive test, requiring the individual to swallow the echocardiography probe. It is especially good in the evaluation of AI in the setting of ascending aortic dissection, and to determine whether the ostia (origins) of the coronary arteries are involved. While many institutions give sedation during transesophageal echocardiography for added patient comfort, it can be performed in cooperative individuals without the use of sedation. Disadvantages of TEE include the inability to visualize the distal ascending aorta (the beginning of the aortic arch), and the descending abdominal aorta that lies below the stomach. A TEE may be technically difficult to perform in individuals with esophageal strictures or varices.\n\nAn aortogram involves placement of a catheter in the aorta and injection of contrast material while taking X-rays of the aorta. The procedure is known as aortography. Previously thought to be the diagnostic gold standard, it has been supplanted by other, less-invasive imaging modalities.\n\nSeveral different classification systems have been used to describe aortic dissections. One such classification is based on chronicity and labels aortic dissections as hyperacute (<24 hours duration), acute (2–7 days), subacute (8–30 days), and chronic (>30 days). The systems commonly in use are based on either the anatomy of the dissection or the duration of onset of symptoms prior to presentation. The Stanford system is used more commonly now, as it is more attuned to the management of the patient.\n\nThe DeBakey system, named after cardiothoracic surgeon Michael E. DeBakey, is an anatomical description of the aortic dissection. It categorizes the dissection based on where the original intimal tear is located and the extent of the dissection (localized to either the ascending aorta or descending aorta or involves both the ascending and descending aorta.\n\nThe Stanford classification is divided into two groups, A and B, depending on whether the ascending aorta is involved.\n\nThe Stanford classification is useful as it follows clinical practice, as type A ascending aortic dissections generally require primary surgical treatment, whereas type B dissections generally are treated medically as initial treatment with surgery reserved for any complications.\n\nThe reason for surgical repair of type A dissections is that ascending aortic dissections often involve the aortic valve, which, having lost its suspensory support, telescopes down into the aortic root, resulting in aortic incompetence. The valve must be resuspended in order to be reseated, as well as to repair or prevent coronary artery injury. Also, the area of dissection is removed and replaced with a Dacron graft to prevent further dissection from occurring. However, type B dissections are not improved, from a mortality point of view, by the operation, unless leaking, rupture, or compromise to other organs, e.g. kidneys, occurs.\n\nAmong the recognized risk factors for aortic dissection, hypertension, abnormally high levels of lipids (such as cholesterol) in the blood, and smoking tobacco are considered preventable risk factors.\n\nRepair of an enlargement of the ascending aorta from an aneurysm or previously unrecognized and untreated aortic dissections is recommended when greater than in size to decrease the risk of dissection. Repair may be recommended when greater than in size if the person has one of the several connective-tissue disorders or a family history of a ruptured aorta.\n\nIn an acute dissection, treatment choice depends on its location. For Stanford type A (ascending aortic) dissection, surgical management is superior to medical management. For uncomplicated Stanford type B (distal aortic) dissections (including abdominal aortic dissections), medical management is preferred over surgical. Complicated Stanford type B aortic dissections require surgical intervention after medical therapy is initiated.\n\nThe risk of death due to aortic dissection is highest in the first few hours after the dissection begins, and decreases afterward. Because of this, the therapeutic strategies differ for the treatment of an acute dissection compared to a chronic dissection. An acute dissection is one in which the individual presents within the first two weeks. If the individual has managed to survive this window period, his prognosis is improved. About 66% of all dissections present in the acute phase. Individuals who present two weeks after the onset of the dissection are said to have chronic aortic dissections. These individuals have been self-selected as survivors of the acute episode and can be treated with medical therapy as long as they are stable.\n\nAortic dissection generally presents as a hypertensive emergency, and the prime consideration of medical management is to decrease the shear stress in the aortic wall (dP/dt (force of ejection of blood from the left ventricle)) by decreasing blood pressure and the heart rate. The target blood pressure should be a mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 60 to 75 mmHg, or the lowest blood pressure tolerated. Initial decreases should be by about 20%. The target heart rate is less than 65 beats per minute. Long-term blood pressure control is required for every person who has experienced aortic dissection.\n\nBeta blockers are the first-line treatment for patients with acute and chronic aortic dissection. In acute dissection, fast-acting agents which can be given intravenously and have doses that are easier to adjust (such as esmolol, propranolol, or labetalol) are preferred. Vasodilators such as sodium nitroprusside can be considered for people with ongoing high blood pressure, but they should never be used alone, as they often stimulate a reflexive increase in the heart rate.\n\nCalcium channel blockers can be used in the treatment of aortic dissection, particularly if a contraindication to the use of beta blockers exists. The calcium channel blockers typically used are verapamil and diltiazem, because of their combined vasodilator and negative inotropic effects.\n\nIf the individual has refractory hypertension (persistent hypertension on the maximum doses of three different classes of antihypertensive agents), an involvement of the renal arteries in the aortic dissection plane should be considered.\n\nIndications for the surgical treatment of aortic dissection include an acute proximal aortic dissection and an acute distal aortic dissection with one or more complications. Complications include compromise of a vital organ, rupture or impending rupture of the aorta, retrograde dissection into the ascending aorta. These are more common with a history of Marfan syndrome or Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.\n\nThe objective in the surgical management of aortic dissection is to resect (remove) the most severely damaged segments of the aorta and to obliterate the entry of blood into the false lumen (both at the initial intimal tear and any secondary tears along the vessel). While excision of the intimal tear may be performed, it does not significantly change mortality.\n\nThe particular treatment used depends on the segment or segments of aorta involved. Some treatments are:\n\nA number of comorbid conditions increase the surgical risk of repair of an aortic dissection. These conditions include the following:\n\nThe long-term follow-up in individuals who survive aortic dissection involves strict blood pressure control. The relative risk of late rupture of an aortic aneurysm is 10 times higher in individuals who have uncontrolled hypertension, compared to individuals with a systolic pressure below 130 mmHg.\n\nThe risk of death is highest in the first two years after the acute event, and individuals should be followed closely during this time period. About 29% of late deaths following surgery are due to rupture of either a dissecting aneurysm or another aneurysm. In addition, a 17% to 25% incidence exists of new aneurysm formation, typically due to dilatation of the residual false lumen. These new aneurysms are more likely to rupture, due to their thinner walls.\n\nSerial imaging of the aorta is suggested, with MRI being the preferred imaging technique.\n\nEstablishing the incidence of aortic dissection has been difficult because many cases are only diagnosed after death (which may have been attributed to another cause), and is often initially misdiagnosed. Aortic dissection affects an estimated 2.0–3.5 people per every 100,000 every year. Studies from Sweden suggest that the incidence of aortic dissection may be rising. Men are more commonly affected than women: 65% of all people with aortic dissection are male. The mean age at diagnosis is 63 years. In females before the age of 40, half of all aortic dissections occur during pregnancy (typically in the third trimester or early postpartum period). Dissection occurs in about 0.6% of pregnancies.\n\nOf all people with aortic dissection, 40% die immediately and do not reach a hospital in time. Of the remainder, 1% die every hour, making prompt diagnosis and treatment a priority. Even after diagnosis, 5–20% die during surgery or in the immediate postoperative period. In ascending aortic dissection, if surgery is decided to be not appropriate, 75% die within 2 weeks. With aggressive treatment, 30-day survival for thoracic dissections may be as high as 90%.\n\nThe earliest fully documented case of aortic dissection is attributed to Frank Nicholls in his autopsy report of King George II of Great Britain, who had been found dead on 25 October 1760; the report describes dissection of the aortic arch and into the pericardium. The term \"aortic dissection\" was introduced by the French physician J.P. Maunoir in 1802, and René Laennec labelled the condition \"dissecting aneurysm\". London cardiologist Thomas Bevill Peacock contributed to the understanding of the condition by publishing two series of the cases described in the literature so far: 19 cases in an 1843 review, and 80 in 1863. The characteristic symptom of tearing pain in the chest was recognized in 1855 when a case was diagnosed in life.\n\nSurgery for aortic dissection was first introduced and developed by Michael E. DeBakey, Denton Cooley, and Oscar Creech, cardiac surgeons associated with the Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, in 1954. DeBakey developed aortic dissection himself at age 97 in 2005, and underwent surgery in 2006. Endovascular treatment of aortic dissection was developed in the 1990s.\n\nRitter rules are a compilation of reminders, symptoms, and risk factors designed to prevent the misdiagnosis of thoracic aortic dissection. The rules were named for actor John Ritter, who died from a thoracic aortic dissection on September 11, 2003. Ritter was initially misdiagnosed and subsequently treated for a heart attack. The Ritter rules were developed by Dianna Milewicz, of the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, and were jointly published in March 2010 by John Ritter Foundation and the Thoracic Aortic Disease Coalition.\n"}
{"id": "50530324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50530324", "title": "Ashwath Aiyappa", "text": "Ashwath Aiyappa\n\nAshwath Aiyappa (18 November 1983 – 17 April 2014) was an Indian cricketer. He played three first-class matches for Karnataka in 2001/02. He drowned while trying to save his brother in a reservoir.\n"}
{"id": "3288573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3288573", "title": "Biotic potential", "text": "Biotic potential\n\nBiotic potential is described by the unrestricted growth of populations resulting in the maximum growth of that population. \nBiotic potential is the highest possible vital index of a species; therefore, when the species has its highest birthrate and lowest mortality rate.\n\nThe biotic potential is the quantitative expression of the ability of a species to face selection in any environment. The main equilibrium of a particular population is described by the equation:\n\nChapman also relates to a \"vital index\", regarding a ratio to find the rate of surviving members of a species, whereas;\n\nAccording to the ecologist R.N Chapman (1928), the biotic potential could be divided into a reproductive and survival potential. The survival potential could in turn be divided into nutritive and protective potentials.\n\nReproductive potential (potential natality) is the upper limit to biotic potential in the absence of mortality. Survival potential is the reciprocal of mortality. Because reproductive potential does not account for the number of gametes surviving, survival potential is a necessary component of biotic potential. In the absence of mortality, biotic potential = reproductive potential.\n\nChapman also identified two additional components of nutritive and protective potentials as divisions of the survival potential. Nutritive potential is the ability to acquire and use food for growth and energy. Protective potential is described by the ability of the organism to protect itself against the dynamic forces of environment in order to insure successful reproduction and offspring.\n\nFull expression of the biotic potential of an organism is restricted by environmental resistance, any condition that inhibits the increase in number of the population. It is generally only reached when environmental conditions are very favorable. A species reaching its biotic potential would exhibit exponential population growth and be said to have a high fertility, that is, how many offspring are produced per mother.\n"}
{"id": "35551179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35551179", "title": "Chitrapu Uday Bhaskar", "text": "Chitrapu Uday Bhaskar\n\nCommodore Bhaskar is currently the Director of the Society for Policy Studies (SPS), an independent think-tank based in New Delhi, India. He has the rare distinction of being the head of three think tanks during his career - the earlier two being the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA) and the National Maritime Foundation (NMF).\n\nHe is a columnist, editor, and contributor of numerous research-articles on nuclear and international security issues to reputed journals in India and abroad. He is also a life member of the \"United Services Institute\"(USI).\n\nBhaskar is alumnus of Sainik School, Korukonda.\n\nUday Bhaskar married Ira Bhaskar, a professor of Cinema studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi and author of \"Islamicate Cultures of Bombay Cinema\". He has two children, a daughter and a son. His daughter is Swara Bhaskar, a bollywood film actress.\n\nHe served in Indian Navy till 2007 for 37 years. He was associated with Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA) from 1990, served as Deputy director from 1996 to 2004, and as an Officiating director of IDSA from 2004 to 2005. Later, was appointed as secretary to the Government of India's task force on \"Global Strategic Developments\". He retired in 2007.\n\nHe worked as an editor of \"Maritime affairs\" and \"Strategic analysis\" - currently, serving on the editorial board of \"Contemporary Security Policy\". He edited books on nuclear, maritime, and international security related issues; and contributed over sixty research-articles to reputed journals, both in India and abroad—US Naval Institute Proceedings, Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, and the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists - and in books published by the US Naval War College and Royal Navy Defence studies.\n\nCurrently, he is a life member of United Services Institute (USI), a member of advisory panel of the India Habitat Centre in New Delhi, chairman of the Middle East Institute in New Delhi, director of National Maritime Foundation, and a frequent (guest) lecturer at the Indian National Defence College, including other military colleges.\n\nThis strategic analyst regularly writes columns for some of the country's leading English publications such as The Indian Express, Reuters, Dainik Jagran, The Economic Times, and several alike.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29388538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29388538", "title": "Christian Frederick Beyers", "text": "Christian Frederick Beyers\n\nChristiaan Frederik Beyers (23 September 1869 – 8 December 1914) was a Boer general during the Second Boer War.\n\nAs a young man, he went to the Transvaal, where he took a prominent part on the Boer side in the South African War, winning high distinction in the field and bearing the rank of general when peace was made in 1902. Beyers had much influence, as soldier and statesman, among the Dutch-speaking people of South Africa, and was, with Generals Botha and Smuts, though in a less degree than they, one of the recognized leaders of the Transvaal Boers.\n\nWhen responsible government was granted to the Transvaal, Beyers became speaker of the Lower House. He showed in the speaker's chair remarkable gifts. He was acute, tolerant and rigidly impartial, thus making a deep impression upon English-speaking South Africans, who would have supported his claims to be the first speaker of the first South African House of Assembly, had they been pressed by Louis Botha, the first Prime Minister. Instead, Beyers was made commandant general of the Citizen Forces of the Union Defence Force of South Africa, and in that capacity paid a visit to Great Britain, Germany, Switzerland and the Netherlands in 1912.\n\nA man of fine physique, of passionate nature, and of profound religious convictions, Beyers, as commandant general of South Africa, was entertained with marked attentions during his visit to Germany by Kaiser Wilhelm II. When World War I broke out, he set himself in almost open opposition to the policy of the Botha government. For some months, this opposition smouldered. Then, at a moment when the South African expeditionary force was being mobilized for the invasion of German South-West Africa, and when rebellion was already smouldering among the irreconcilables of the South African Dutch, Beyers resigned his post as commandant general in a letter addressed to General Smuts, then Minister of Defence, and published in \"Het Volk\", an anti-government journal. In this letter he declared that he had always disapproved the Government's intention to invade German South-West Africa and that this disapproval was shared by the great majority of the Dutch-speaking people of the Union. General Smuts replied in a stern letter declaring that the war was a test of the loyalty to their pledged word of the Dutch-speaking people, and accepting Beyers' resignation. He had a friendship with JF Naudé and Naudé named his son CFB Naudé after him.\n\nA few weeks later Beyers took the field as a leader of the Boer Rebels against the government, only to be overwhelmed by the government troops under the command of General Botha, to be driven from pillar to post as a fugitive, and to be wounded and consequently drowned on 8 December 1914, while trying to escape from his pursuers by crossing the Vaal River. His body was recovered two days later, and with his death the rebellion was brought to an end.\n"}
{"id": "1947410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947410", "title": "Critical period", "text": "Critical period\n\nIn developmental psychology and developmental biology, a critical period is a maturational stage in the lifespan of an organism during which the nervous system is especially sensitive to certain environmental stimuli. If, for some reason, the organism does not receive the appropriate stimulus during this \"critical period\" to learn a given skill or trait, it may be difficult, ultimately less successful, or even impossible, to develop some functions later in life. Functions that are indispensable to an organism's survival, such as vision, are particularly likely to develop during critical periods. \"Critical period\" also relates to the ability to acquire one's first language. Researchers found that people who passed the \"critical period\" would not acquire their first language fluently.\n\nSome researchers differentiate between 'critical' and 'sensitive' periods—defining 'sensitive' periods as more extended periods, after which learning is still possible. Other researchers consider these the same phenomenon.\n\nFor example, the critical period for the development of a human child's binocular vision is thought to be between three and eight months, with sensitivity to damage extending up to at least three years of age. Further critical periods have been identified for the development of hearing and the vestibular system.\n\nThe critical period hypothesis (CPH) states that the first few years of life constitute the time during which language develops readily and after which (sometime between age 5 and puberty) language acquisition is much more difficult and ultimately less successful. The hypothesis that language is acquired during a critical period was first proposed by neurologists Wilder Penfield and Lamar Roberts in 1959 and popularized by linguist Eric H. Lenneberg in 1967. Lenneberg argued for the hypothesis based on evidence that children who experience brain injury early in life develop far better language skills than adults with similar injuries.\n\nDr. Maria Montessori was one of the earlier educators who brought attention to this phenomenon and called it \"Sensitive Periods\", which is one of the pillars of her philosophy of education.\n\nThe two most famous cases of children who failed to acquire language after the critical period are Genie and the feral child Victor of Aveyron. However, the tragic circumstances of these cases and the moral and ethical impermissibility of replicating them make it difficult to draw conclusions about them. The children may have been cognitively disabled from infancy, or their inability to develop language may have resulted from the profound neglect and abuse they suffered.\n\nMany subsequent researchers have further developed the CPH, most notably Elissa Newport and Rachel Mayberry. Studies conducted by these researchers demonstrated that profoundly deaf individuals who are not exposed to a sign language as children never achieve full proficiency, even after 30 years of daily use. While the effect is most profound for individuals who receive no sign language input until after the age of 12, even those deaf people who began learning a sign language at age 5 were significantly less fluent than native deaf signers (whose exposure to a sign language began at birth). Early language exposure also affects the ability to learn a second language later in life: profoundly deaf individuals with early language exposure achieve comparable levels of proficiency in a second language to hearing individuals with early language exposure. In contrast, deaf individuals without early language exposure perform far worse.\n\nSteven Pinker discusses the CPH in his book, The Language Instinct. According to Pinker, language must be viewed as a concept rather than a specific language because the sounds, grammar, meaning, vocabulary, and social norms play an important role in the acquisition of language. Physiological changes in the brain are also conceivable causes for the terminus of the critical period for language acquisition. As language acquisition is crucial during this phase, similarly infant-parent attachment is crucial for social development of the infant. An infant learns to trust and feel safe with the parent, but there are cases in which the infant might be staying at an orphanage where it does not receive the same attachment with their caregiver. Research shows that infants who were unable to develop this attachment had major difficulty in keeping close relationships, and had maladaptive behaviors with adopted parents.\n\nOther evidence comes from neuropsychology where it is known that adults well beyond the critical period are more likely to suffer permanent language impairment from brain damage than are children, believed to be due to youthful resiliency of neural reorganization.\n\nThe theory has often been extended to a critical period for second language acquisition (SLA), which has influenced researchers in the field on both sides of the spectrum, supportive and unsupportive of CPH, to explore. However, the nature of this phenomenon has been one of the most fiercely debated issues in psycholinguistics and cognitive science in general for decades.\n\nCertainly, older learners of a second language rarely achieve the native-like fluency that younger learners display, despite often progressing faster than children in the initial stages. This is generally accepted as evidence supporting the CPH. Incorporating the idea, \"younger equals better\" by Penfield, David Singleton (1995) states that in learning a second language there are many exceptions, noting that five percent of adult bilinguals master a second language even though they begin learning it when they are well into adulthood—long after any critical period has presumably come to a close. The critical period hypothesis holds that first language acquisition must occur before cerebral lateralization completes, at about the age of puberty. One prediction of this hypothesis is that second language acquisition is relatively fast, successful, and qualitatively similar to first language only if it occurs before the age of puberty. To grasp a better understanding of SLA, it is essential to consider linguistic, cognitive, and social factors rather than age alone, as they are all essential to the learner's language acquisition.\n\nOver the years, many experimenters have tried to find evidence in support or against the critical periods for second language acquisition. Many have found evidence that young children acquire language more easily than adults, but there are also special cases of adults acquiring a second language with native-like proficiency. Thus it has been difficult for researchers to separate correlation from causation.\n\nIn 1989, Jacqueline S. Johnson and Elissa L. Newport found support for the claim that second languages are more easily acquired before puberty, or more specifically before the age of seven. They tested second language learners of English who arrived in the United States at various ages ranging from three to thirty-nine, and they found that there was a decline in grammatical correctness after the age of seven. Johnson and Newport attributed this claim to a decline in language learning ability with age. Opponents of the critical period argue that the difference in language ability found by Johnson and Newport could be due to the different types of input that children and adults receive; children received reduced input while adults receive more complicated structures.\n\nAdditional evidence against a strict critical period is also found in the work of Pallier et al. (2003) who found that children adopted to France from Korea were able to become native-like in their performance of French even after the critical period for phonology. Their experiment may represent a special case where subjects must lose their first language in order to more perfectly acquire their second.\n\nThere is also some debate as to how one can judge the native-like quality of the speech participants produce and what exactly it means to be a near-native speaker of a second language. White et al. found that it is possible for non-native speakers of a language to become native-like in some aspects, but those aspects are influenced by their first language.\n\nRecently, a connectionist model has been developed to explain the changes that take place in second language learning assuming that sensitive period affects lexical learning and syntactic learning parts of the system differently, which sheds further light on how first and second language acquisition changes over the course of learners development. \n\nIn mammals, neurons in the brain that process vision actually develop after birth based on signals from the eyes. A landmark experiment by David H. Hubel and Torsten Wiesel (1963) showed that cats that had one eye sewn shut from birth to three months of age (monocular deprivation) only fully developed vision in the open eye. They showed that columns in the primary visual cortex receiving inputs from the other eye took over the areas that would normally receive input from the deprived eye. In general electrophysiological analyses of axons and neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus showed that the visual receptive field properties was comparable to adult cats. However, the layers of cortex that were deprived had less activity and fewer responses were isolated. The kittens had abnormally small ocular dominance columns (part of the brain that processes sight) connected to the closed eye, and abnormally large, wide columns connected to the open eye. Because the critical period time had elapsed, it would be impossible for the kittens to alter and develop vision in the closed eye. This did not happen to adult cats even when one eye was sewn shut for a year because they had fully developed their vision during their critical period. Later experiments in monkeys found similar results.\n\nIn a follow-up experiment, Hubel and Wiesel (1963) explored the cortical responses present in kittens after binocular deprivation; they found it difficult to find any active cells in the cortex, and the responses they did get were either slow-moving or fast-fatiguing. Furthermore, the cells that did respond selected for edges and bars with distinct orientation preferences. Nevertheless, these kittens developed normal binocularity. Hubel and Wiesel first explained the mechanism, known as orientation selectivity, in the mammalian visual cortex. Orientation tuning, a model that originated with their model, is a concept in which receptive fields of neurons in the LGN excite a cortical simple cell and are arranged in rows. This model was important because it was able to describe a critical period for the proper development of normal ocular dominance columns in the lateral geniculate nucleus, and thus able to explain the effects of monocular deprivation during this critical period. The critical period for cats is about three months and for monkeys, about six months.\n\nIn a similar experiment, Antonini and Stryker (1993) examined the anatomical changes that can be observed after monocular deprivation. They compared geniculocortical axonal arbors in monocularly deprived animals in the long term (4- weeks) to short term (6–7 days) during the critical period established by Hubel and Wiesel (1993). They found that in the long term, monocular deprivation causes reduced branching at the end of neurons, while the amount of afferents allocated to the nondeprived eye increased. Even in the short term, Antonini and Stryker (1993) found that geniculocortical neurons were similarly affected. This supports the aforementioned concept of a critical period for proper neural development for vision in the cortex.\n\nIn humans, some babies are born blind in one or both eyes, for example, due to cataracts. Even when their vision is restored later by treatment, their sight would not function in the normal way as for someone who had binocular vision from birth or had surgery to restore vision shortly after birth. Therefore, it is important to treat babies born blind soon if their condition is treatable.\n\nExpression of the protein Lynx1 has been associated with the normal end of the critical period for synaptic plasticity in the visual system.\n\nIn psychology, imprinting is any type of rapid learning that occurs in a particular life stage. While this rapid learning is independent of the behavioral outcome, it also establishes it and can effect behavioral responses to different stimuli. Konrad Lorenz is well known for his classic studies of filial imprinting in graylag geese. From 1935 to 1938, he presented himself to a group of newly hatched gosling and took note of how he was instantly accepted, followed, and called to as if he were the one who laid them himself. As the first moving object they encountered, Lorenz studied the phenomenon in how quickly the geese were able to form such an irreversible bond. Through his work he demonstrated that this only developed during a brief “critical period,” which was about a few hours after hatching. Lorenz also discovered a long-lasting effect of his studies, and that was a shift in the species' sexual imprinting as a result from imprinting upon a foster mother of a second species. For certain species, when raised by a second one, they develop and retain imprinted preferences and approach the second species they were raised by rather than choose their own, if given a choice.\n\nImprinting serves as the distinguishing factor between one's own mother and other mother figures. The mother and the infant both identify with each other, this is a strong bonding moment for humans. It provides a sort of model or guide to adult behaviors in addition to other factors such as nurture, protection in infancy, guidance, and nourishment. The imprinting process, Lorenz also found, brought about a sense of familiarity for the young animals. When such a strong bond is formed at such an early stage, it creates a sense of security and comfort for the subject and actually encourages the imprinting behavior.\n\nPheromones play a key role in the imprinting process, they trigger a biochemical response in the recipient, leading to a confirmed identification in the other individual. If direct contact between mother and infant is not maintained during the critical imprinting period, then the mother goose may reject the infant because she is unfamiliar with her newborn's scent. If that does happen, then the infant's life would be in jeopardy unless it were claimed by a substitute mother and if it failed to imprint would, that trigger psychological trauma, possibly leading to awkward social behavior in later life. In relation to humans, a newborn during the critical period identifies with its mother's and other peoples' scents since its scent is one of the most developed senses at that stage in life. The newborn uses this pheromone identification to seek the people it identifies with, when in times of distress, hunger, and discomfort as a survival skill. Inferences could be made for newborns based upon Lorenz's studies. When imprinting on their mothers, newborns look to them for nourishment, a sense of security, and comfort. Human newborns are among the most helpless known with orangutang newborns ranking second. Newborns of these species have a very limited array of innate survival abilities. Their most important and functional ability is to form bonds with close individuals who are able to keep them alive. Imprinting is a crucial factor of the critical period because it facilitates the newborn's abilities to form bonds with other individuals, from infancy to adulthood.\n\nMany studies have supported a correlation between the type of auditory stimuli present in the early postnatal environment and the development on the topographical and structural development of the auditory system.\n\nFirst reports on critical periods came from deaf children and animals that received a cochlear implant to restore hearing. Approximately at the same time, both an electroencephalographic study by Sharma, Dorman and Spahr and an in-vivo investigation of the cortical plasticity in deaf cats by Kral and colleagues demonstrated that the adaptation to the cochlear implant is subject to an early, developmental sensitive period. The closure of sensitive periods likely involves a multitude of processes that in their combination make it difficult to reopen these behaviorally. The understanding of the mechanisms behind critical periods has consequences for medical therapy of hearing loss. M. Merzenich and colleagues showed that during an early critical period, noise exposure can affect the frequency organization of the auditory cortex.\n\nRecent studies have examined the possibility of a critical period for thalamocortical connectivity in the auditory system. For example, Zhou and Merzenich (2008) studied the effects of noise on development in the primary auditory cortex in rats. In their study, rats were exposed to pulsed noise during the critical period and the effect on cortical processing was measured. Rats that were exposed to pulsed noise during the critical period had cortical neurons that were less able to respond to repeated stimuli; the early auditory environment interrupted normal structural organization during development.\n\nIn a related study, Barkat, Polley and Hensch (2011) looked at how exposure to different sound frequencies influences the development of the tonotopic map in the primary auditory cortex and the ventral medical geniculate body. In this experiment, mice were reared either in normal environments or in the presence of 7 kHz tones during early postnatal days. They found that mice that were exposed to an abnormal auditory environment during a critical period P11- P15 had an atypical tonotopic map in the primary auditory cortex.\nThese studies support the notion that exposure to certain sounds within the critical period can influence the development of tonotopic maps and the response properties of neurons. Critical periods are important for the development of the brain for the function from a pattern of connectivity. In general, the early auditory environment influences the structural development and response specificity of the primary auditory cortex.\n\nAbsolute pitch manifests itself almost always before adolescence and rarely if ever among individuals who are first exposed to music after mid-childhood, suggesting that exposure to music or similar phenomena (\"e.g.\", tonal languages) in early to mid-childhood is a necessary condition for its development or refinement. Studies that ask musicians and non-musicians to sing or hum well-known popular songs that have definitive recordings (and hence are sung in standardized keys) show that—on average—participants sing within a semitone of the standardized key but that outside the small subset of participants with absolute pitch there is broad variation (the \"bell curve\" that reflects the degree of approximation to the standard key is broad and flat). These results suggest that almost all humans have some innate aptitude for absolute pitch recognition—though other factors may enhance or limit the level of that aptitude. Also, the results' conjunction with the aforementioned chronological observations suggests that early to mid-childhood exposure to environments whose interpretation depends on pitch is a developmental \"trigger\" for whatever aptitude an individual possesses.\n\nIn our vestibular system, neurons are undeveloped at neuronal birth and mature during the critical period of the first 2-3 postnatal weeks. Hence, disruption of maturation during this period can cause changes in normal balance and movement through space. Animals with abnormal vestibular development tend to have irregular motor skills.\nStudies have consistently shown that animals with genetic vestibular deficiencies during this critical period have altered vestibular phenotypes, most likely as a result of lack insufficient input from the semicircular canals and dopaminergic abnormalities. Moreover, exposure to abnormal vestibular stimuli during the critical period is associated with irregular motor development. Children with hypofunctioning vestibular receptors frequently have delayed motor development. The results of the studies done on ferrets and rats reinforced the idea that the vestibular system is very important to motor development during the initial neonatal period. If the vestibular receptors are present during the initial six months to a year when the infant is learning to sit and stand, then the child may develop motor control and balance normally.\n\nThe vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) is a reflex eye movement that stabilizes images on the retina during head movement. It produces an eye movement in the direction opposite to head movement, thus preserving the image on the center of the visual field. Studies in fish and amphibians revealed a sensitivity in their VOR. They launched into space flight for 9-10, some with developing VOR's and others with already developed reflexes. The fish with developing reflexes developed an upward bend in their tails. The altered gravity resulted in a shift of orientation. Those who were already matured with the reflex were insensitive to the microgravity exposure.\n\nRecent studies also support the possibility of a critical period for the development of neurons that mediate memory processing. Experimental evidence supports the notion that young neurons in the adult dentate gyrus have a critical period (about 1–3 weeks after neuronal birth) during which they are integral to memory formation. Although the exact reasoning behind this observation is uncertain, studies suggest that the functional properties of neurons at this age make them most appropriate for this purpose; these neurons: (1) Remain hyperactive during the formation of memories; (2) are more excitable; and (3) More easily depolarizable due to GABAergic effects. It is also possible that hyperplasticity makes the neurons more useful in memory formation. If these young neurons had more plasticity than adult neurons in the same context, they could be more influential in smaller numbers.\nThe role of these neurons in the adult dentate gyrus in memory processing is further supported by the fact that behavioral experiments have shown that an intact dentate gyrus is integral to hippocampal memory formation. It is speculated that the dentate gyrus acts a relay station for information relating to memory storage. The likelihood of a critical period could change the way we view memory processing because it would ultimately mean that the collection of neurons present is constantly being replenished as new neurons replace old ones. If a critical period does indeed exist, this could possibly mean that: (1) Diverse populations of neurons that represent events occurring soon after one another may connect those events temporally in the memory formation and processing; OR (2) These different populations of neurons may distinguish between similar events, independent of temporal position; OR (3) Separate populations may mediate the formation of new memories when the same events occur frequently.\n\nIn physical sports, humans need several years of practice before reaching the highest competitive level. To date, no single professional football or basketball player has been able to play in the best leagues after starting practice at age 20. The same applies to mental sports like chess, where no player has arrived to the top 100 after starting practice at age 20. In general, to reach the highest level in sport, the sooner a person start to train, the best.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15261560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15261560", "title": "Dictyostelium discoideum", "text": "Dictyostelium discoideum\n\nDictyostelium discoideum is a species of soil-living amoeba belonging to the phylum Amoebozoa, infraphylum Mycetozoa. Commonly referred to as slime mold, \"D. discoideum\" is a eukaryote that transitions from a collection of unicellular amoebae into a multicellular slug and then into a fruiting body within its lifetime. Its unique asexual lifecycle consists of four stages: vegetative, aggregation, migration, and culmination. The lifecycle of \"D. discoideum\" is relatively short, which allows for timely viewing of all stages. The cells involved in the lifecycle undergo movement, chemical signaling, and development, which are applicable to human cancer research. The simplicity of its lifecycle makes \"D. discoideum\" a valuable model organism to study genetic, cellular, and biochemical processes in other organisms.\n\nIn the wild, \"D. discoideum\" can be found in soil and moist leaf litter. Its primary diet consists of bacteria, such as \"Escherichia coli\", found in the soil and decaying organic matter. Uninucleate amoebae of \"D. discoideum\" consume bacteria found in its natural habitat, which includes deciduous forest soil and decaying leaves.\n\nThe life cycle of \"D. discoideum\" begins as spores are released from a mature sorocarp (fruiting body). Myxamoebae hatch from the spores under warm and moist conditions. During their vegetative stage, the myxamoebae divide by mitosis as they feed on bacteria. The bacteria secrete folic acid, attracting the myxamoebae. When the supply of bacteria is depleted, the myxamoebae enter the aggregation stage.\n\nDuring aggregation, starvation initiates the creation of a biochemical machinery that includes glycoproteins and adenylyl cyclase. The glycoproteins allow for cell-cell adhesion, and adenylyl cyclase creates cyclic AMP. Cyclic AMP is secreted by the amoebae to attract neighboring cells to a central location. As they move toward the signal, they bump into each other and stick together by the use of glycoprotein adhesion molecules.\nThe migration stage begins once the amoebae have formed a tight aggregate and the elongated mound of cells tip over to lie flat on the ground. The amoebae work together as a motile pseudoplasmodium, also known as a slug. The slug is about 2–4 mm long, composed of up to 100,000 cells, and is capable of movement by producing a cellulose sheath in its anterior cells through which the slug moves. Part of this sheath is left behind as a slimy trail as it moves toward attractants such as light, heat, and humidity in a forward-only direction. Cyclic AMP and a substance called differentiation-inducing factor, help to form different cell types. The slug becomes differentiated into prestalk and prespore cells that move to the anterior and posterior ends, respectively. Once the slug has found a suitable environment, the anterior end of the slug forms the stalk of the fruiting body and the posterior end forms the spores of the fruiting body. Anterior-like cells, which have only been recently discovered, are also dispersed throughout the posterior region of the slug. These anterior-like cells form the very bottom of the fruiting body and the caps of the spores. After the slug settles into one spot, the posterior end spreads out with the anterior end raised in the air, forming what is called the \"Mexican hat\", and the culmination stage begins.\n\nThe prestalk cells and prespore cells switch positions in the culmination stage to form the mature fruiting body. The anterior end of the Mexican hat forms a cellulose tube, which allows the more posterior cells to move up the outside of the tube to the top, and the prestalk cells move down. This rearrangement forms the stalk of the fruiting body made up of the cells from the anterior end of the slug, and the cells from the posterior end of the slug are on the top and now form the spores of the fruiting body. At the end of this 8– to 10-hour process, the mature fruiting body is fully formed. This fruiting body is 1–2 mm tall and is now able to start the entire cycle over again by releasing the mature spores that become myxamoebae.\n\nIn general, although \"D. discoideum\" generally reproduces asexually, \"D. discoideum\" is still capable of sexual reproduction if certain conditions are met. \"D. discoideum\" has three different mating types and studies have identified the sex locus that specifies these three mating types. Type I strains are specified by the gene called MatA, Type II strains have three different genes: MatB (homologous to Mat A), Mat C, and Mat D, and Type III strains have Mat S and Mat T genes (which are homologous to Mat C and Mat D). These sexes can only mate with the two different sexes and not with its own.\n\nWhen incubated with their bacterial food supply, heterothallic or homothallic sexual development can occur, resulting in the formation of a diploid zygote. Heterothallic mating occurs when two amoebae of different mating types are present in a dark and wet environment, where they can fuse during aggregation to form a giant zygote cell. The giant cell then releases cAMP to attract other cells, then engulfs the other cells cannibalistically in the aggregate. The consumed cells serve to encase the whole aggregate in a thick, cellulose wall to protect it. This is known as a macrocyst. Inside the macrocyst, the giant cell divides first through meiosis, then through mitosis to produce many haploid amoebae that will be released to feed as normal amoebae would. Homothallic \"D. discoideum\" strains AC4 and ZA3A are also able to produce macrocysts. Each of these strains, unlike heterothallic strains, likely express both mating type alleles (\"matA\" and \"mata\"). While sexual reproduction is possible, it is very rare to see successful germination of a \"D. discoideum\" macrocyst under laboratory conditions. Nevertheless, recombination is widespread within \"D. discoideum\" natural populations, indicating that sex is likely an important aspect of their lifecycle.\n\nBecause many of its genes are homologous to human genes, yet its lifecycle is simple, \"D. discoideum\" is commonly used as a model organism. It can be observed at organismic, cellular, and molecular levels primarily because of their restricted number of cell types and behaviors, and their rapid growth. It is used to study cell differentiation, chemotaxis, and programmed cell death, which are all normal cellular processes. It is also used to study other aspects of development, including cell sorting, pattern formation, phagocytosis, motility, and signal transduction. These processes and aspects of development are either absent or too difficult to view in other model organisms. \"D. discoideum\" is closely related to higher metazoans. It carries similar genes and pathways, making it a good candidate for gene knockout.\n\nThe cell differentiation process occurs when a cell becomes more specialized to develop into a multicellular organism. Changes in size, shape, metabolic activities, and responsiveness can occur as a result of adjustments in gene expression. Cell diversity and differentiation, in this species, involves decisions made from cell-cell interactions in pathways to either stalk cells or spore cells. These cell fates depend on their environment and pattern formation. Therefore, the organism is an excellent model for studying cell differentiation.\nChemotaxis is defined as a passage of an organism toward or away from a chemical stimulus along a chemical concentration gradient. Certain organisms demonstrate chemotaxis when they move toward a supply of nutrients. In \"D. discoideum\", the amoeba secretes the signal, cAMP, out of the cell, attracting other amoebae to migrate toward the source. Every amoeba moves toward a central amoeba, the one dispensing the greatest amount of cAMP secretions. The secretion of the cAMP is then exhibited by all amoebae and is a call for them to begin aggregation. These chemical emissions and amoeba movement occur every six minutes. The amoebae move toward the concentration gradient for 60 seconds and stop until the next secretion is sent out. This behavior of individual cells tends to cause oscillations in a group of cells, and chemical waves of varying cAMP concentration propagate through the group in spirals.\n\nAn elegant set of mathematical equations that reproduces the spirals and the streaming patterns of \"D. discoideum\" was discovered by mathematical biologists Thomas Höfer and Martin Boerlijst. Mathematical biologist Cornelis J. Weijer has proven that similar equations can model its movement. The equations of these patterns are mainly influenced by the density of the amoeba population, the rate of the production of cyclic AMP and the sensitivity of individual amoebas to cyclic AMP. The spiraling pattern is formed by amoebas at the centre of a colony who rotate as they send out waves of cyclic AMP.\n\nThe use of cAMP as a chemotactic agent is not established in any other organism. In developmental biology, this is one of the comprehensible examples of chemotaxis, which is important for an understanding of human inflammation, arthritis, asthma, lymphocyte trafficking, and axon guidance. Phagocytosis is used in immune surveillance and antigen presentation, while cell-type determination, cell sorting, and pattern formation are basic features of embryogenesis that may be studied with these organisms.\n\nThermotaxis is movement along a gradient of temperature. The slugs have been shown to migrate along extremely shallow gradients of only 0.05 °C/cm, but the direction chosen is complicated; it seems to be away from a temperature about 2 °C below the temperature to which they had been acclimated. This complicated behavior has been analyzed by computer modeling of the behavior and the periodic pattern of temperature changes in soil caused by daily changes in air temperature. The conclusion is that the behavior moves slugs a few centimeters below the soil surface up to the surface. This is an amazingly sophisticated behavior by a primitive organism with no apparent sense of gravity.\n\nProgrammed cell death (apoptosis) is a normal part of species development. Apoptosis is necessary for the proper spacing and sculpting of complex organs. Around 20% of cells in \"D. discoideum\" altruistically sacrifice themselves in the formation of the mature fruiting body. During the pseudoplasmodium (slug or grex) stage of its lifecycle, the organism has formed three main types of cells: prestalk, prespore, and anterior-like cells. During culmination, the prestalk cells secrete a cellulose coat and extend as a tube through the grex. As they differentiate, they form vacuoles and enlarge, lifting up the prespore cells. The stalk cells undergo apoptosis and die as the prespore cells are lifted high above the substrate. The prespore cells then become spore cells, each one becoming a new myxamoeba upon dispersal. This is an example of how apoptosis is used in the formation of a reproductive organ, the mature fruiting body.\n\nA recent major contribution from \"Dictyostelium\" research has come from new techniques allowing the activity of individual genes to be visualised in living cells. This has shown that transcription occurs in \"bursts\" or \"pulses\" (transcriptional bursting) rather than following simple probabilistic or continuous behaviour. Bursting transcription now appears to be conserved between bacteria and humans. Another remarkable feature of the organism is that it has sets of DNA repair enzymes found in human cells, which are lacking from many other popular metazoan model systems. Defects in DNA repair lead to devastating human cancers, so the ability to study human repair proteins in a simple tractable model will prove invaluable.\n\nThis organism's ability to be easily cultivated in the laboratory adds to its appeal as a model organism. While \"D. discoideum\" can be grown in liquid culture, it is usually grown in Petri dishes containing nutrient agar and the surfaces are kept moist. The cultures grow best at 22–24 °C (room temperature). \"D. discoideum\" feed primarily on \"E. coli\", which is adequate for all stages of the lifecycle. When the food supply is diminished, the myxamoebae aggregate to form pseudoplasmodia. Soon, the dish is covered with various stages of the lifecycle. Checking the dish often allows for detailed observations of development. The cells can be harvested at any stage of development and grown quickly.\n\nWhile cultivating \"D. discoidium\" in a laboratory, it is important to take into account its behavioral responses. For example, it has an affinity toward light, higher temperatures, high humidity, low ionic concentrations, and the acidic side of the pH gradient. Experiments are often done to see how manipulations of these parameters hinder, stop, or accelerate development. Variations of these parameters can alter the rate and viability of culture growth. Also, the fruiting bodies, being that this is the tallest stage of development, are very responsive to air currents and physical stimuli. It is unknown if there is a stimulus involved with spore release.\n\nDetailed analysis of protein expression in \"Dictyostelium\" has been hampered by large shifts in the protein expression profile between different developmental stages and a general lack of commercially available antibodies for \"Dictyostelium\" antigens. In 2013, a group at the Beatson West of Scotland Cancer Centre reported an antibody-free protein visualization standard for immunoblotting based on detection of MCCC1 using streptavidin conjugates.\n\nThe bacterial genus \"Legionella\" includes the species that causes legionnaire's disease in humans. \"D. discoideum\" is also a host for \"Legionella\" and is a suitable model for studying the infection process. Specifically, \"D. discoideum\" shares with mammalian host cells a similar cytoskeleton and cellular processes relevant to \"Legionella\" infection, including phagocytosis, membrane trafficking, endocytosis, vesicle sorting, and chemotaxis.\n\nA 2011 report in \"Nature\" published findings that demonstrated a \"primitive farming behaviour\" in \"D. discoideum\" colonies. Described as a \"symbiosis\" between \"D. discoideum\" and bacterial prey, about one-third of wild-collected \"D. discoideum\" colonies engaged in the \"husbandry\" of the bacteria when the bacteria were included within the slime mold fruiting bodies. The incorporation of the bacteria into the fruiting bodies allows the \"seeding\" of the food source at the location of the spore dispersal, which is particularly valuable if the new location is low in food resources. Colonies produced from the \"farming\" spores typically also show the same behavior when sporulating. This incorporation has a cost associated with it: Those colonies that do not consume all of the prey bacteria produce smaller spores that cannot disperse as widely. In addition, much less benefit exists for bacteria-containing spores that land in a food-rich region. This balance of the costs and benefits of the behavior may contribute to the fact that a minority of \"D. discoideum\" colonies engage in this practice.\n\"D. discoideum\" is known for eating Gram-positive, as well as Gram-negative bacteria, but some of the phagocytized bacteria, including some human pathogens, are able to live in the amoebae and exit without killing the cell. When they enter the cell, where they reside, and when they leave the cell are not known. The research is not yet conclusive but it is possible to draw a general lifecycle of \"D. discoideum\" adapted for farmer clones to better understand this symbiotic process.\n\nIn the picture, one can see the different stages. First, in the starvation stage, bacteria are enclosed within \"D. discoideum\", after entry into amoebae, in a phagosome the fusion with lysosomes is blocked and these unmatured phagosomes are surrounded by host cell organelles such as mitochondria, vesicles, and a multilayer membrane derived from the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) of amoebae. The role of the RER in the intracellular infection is not known, but the RER is not required as a source of proteins for the bacteria. \nThe bacteria reside within these phagosomes during the aggregation and the multicellular development stages. The amoebae preserve their individuality and each amoeba has its own bacterium. During the culmination stage, when the spores are produced, the bacteria pass from the cell to the sorus with the help of a cytoskeletal structure that prevents host cell destruction. Some results suggest the bacteria exploit the exocytosis without killing the cell. \nFree-living amoebae seem to play a crucial role for persistence and dispersal of some pathogens in the environment. Transient association with amoebae has been reported for a number of different bacteria, including \"Legionella pneumophila\", many \"Mycobacterium\" species, \"Francisella tubarensis\", and \"Escherichia coli\", among others. Agriculture seems to play a crucial role for pathogens' survival, as they can live and replicate inside \"D. discoideum\", making husbandry. \n\"Nature\"’s report has made an important advance in the knowledge of amoebic behavior, and the famous Spanish phrase translated as “you are more stupid than an amoeba” is losing the sense because amoebae are an excellent example of social behavior with an amazing coordination and sense of sacrifice for the benefit of the species.\n\nSentinel cells in \"Dictyostelium discoideum\" are phagocytic cells responsible for removing toxic material from the slug stage of the social cycle. Generally round in shape, these cells are present within the slug sheath where they are found to be circulating freely. The detoxification process occurs when these cells engulf toxins and pathogens within the slug through phagocytosis. Then, the cells clump into groups of five to ten cells, which then attach to the inner sheath of the slug. The sheath is sloughed off as the slug migrates to a new site in search of food bacteria.\n\nSentinel cells make up approximately 1% of the total number of slug cells, and the number of sentinel cells remains constant even as they are being released. This indicates a constant regeneration of sentinel cells within the slugs as they are being removed along with toxins and pathogens. Sentinel cells are present in the slug even when there are no toxins or pathogens to be removed. Sentinel cells have been located in five other species of \"Dictyostelia\", which suggests that sentinel cells can be described as a general characteristic of the innate immune system in social amoebae.\n\nThe number of sentinel cells varies depending on the farming status of wild \"D. discoideum\". When exposed to a toxic environment created by the use of ethidium bromide, it was shown that the number of sentinel cells per millimeter was lower for farmers than non-farmers. This was concluded by observing the trails left behind as the slugs migrated and counting the number of sentinel cells present in a millimeter. However, the number of sentinel cells does not affect the spore production and viability in farmers. Farmers exposed to a toxic environment produce the same number of spores as farmers in a non-toxic environment, and the spore viability was the same between the farmers and non-farmers. When Clade 2 \"Burkholderia\", or farmer-associated bacteria, are removed from the farmers, spore production and viability were similar to that of the non-farmers. Thus, it is suggested that bacteria carried by the farmers provide an additional role of protection for the farmers against potential harm due to toxins or pathogens.\n\nIn older classifications, \"Dictyostelium\" was placed in the defunct polyphyletic class Acrasiomycetes. This was a class of cellular slime molds, which was characterized by the aggregation of individual amoebae into a multicellular fruiting body, making it an important factor that related the acrasids to the dictyostelids.\n\nMore recent genomic studies have shown that \"Dictyostelium\" has maintained more of its ancestral genome diversity than plants and animals, although proteome-based phylogeny confirms that amoebozoa diverged from the animal–fungal lineage after the plant–animal split. Subclass Dictyosteliidae, order Dictyosteliales is a monophyletic assemblage within the Mycetozoa, a group that includes the protostelid, dictyostelid, and myxogastrid slime molds. \nElongation factor-1α (EF-1α) data analyses support Mycetozoa as a monophyletic group, though rRNA trees place it as a polyphyletic group. Further, these data support the idea that the dictyostelid and myxogastrid are more closely related to each other than they are the protostelids. EF-1α analysis also placed the Mycetozoa as the immediate outgroup for the animal-fungal clade. Latest phylogenetic data place dictyostelids firmly within supergroup Amoebozoa, along with myxomycetes. Meanwhile, protostelids have turned out to be polyphyletic, their stalked fruiting bodies a convergent feature of multiple unrelated lineages.\n\nThe \"D. discoideum\" genome sequencing project was completed and published in 2005 by an international collaboration of institutes. This was the first free-living protozoan genome to be fully sequenced. \"D. discoideum\" consists of a 34-Mb haploid genome with a base composition of 77% [A+T] and contains six chromosomes that encode around 12,500 proteins. Sequencing of the \"D. discoideum\" genome provides a more intricate study of its cellular and developmental biology.\n\nTandem repeats of trinucleotides are very abundant in this genome; one class of the genome is clustered, leading researchers to believe it serves as centromeres. The repeats correspond to repeated sequences of amino acids and are thought to be expanded by nucleotide expansion. Expansion of trinucleotide repeats also occurs in humans, in general leading to many diseases. Learning how \"D. discoideum\" cells endure these amino acid repeats may provide insight to allow humans to tolerate them.\n\nEvery genome sequenced plays an important role in identifying genes that have been gained or lost over time. Comparative genomic studies allow for comparison of eukaryotic genomes. A phylogeny based on the proteome showed that the amoebozoa deviated from the animal-fungal lineage after the plant-animal split. The \"D. discoideum\" genome is noteworthy because its many encoded proteins are commonly found in fungi, plants, and animals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45288072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45288072", "title": "Economic violence", "text": "Economic violence\n\nEconomic violence is a type of violence committed by individuals or groups preying on economically disadvantaged individuals. In some circumstances the individuals may be service workers such as undocumented workers and food service workers, in others they may be spouses, or closeted gays. The World Health Organization defines it as being a form of collective violence, committed by larger groups towards individuals. The term is frequently associated with, or credited to, feminist theory, who term it as a broader form of violence beyond use or threats of physical force, to include sexual, psychological and economic violence. In Argentinian law, it is defined as a form of domestic violence.\n\n"}
{"id": "23740963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23740963", "title": "Eleven Naqshbandi principles", "text": "Eleven Naqshbandi principles\n\nThe Eleven Naqshbandi principles or the \"rules or secrets of the Naqshbandi\", known in Persian as the kalimat-i qudsiya (\"sacred words\" or \"virtuous words\"), are a system of principles and guidelines used as spiritual exercises, or to encourage certain preferred states of being, in Naqshbandi Sufi schools of mysticism.\n\nThere were originally eight principles formulated by the Central Asian Sufi teacher Abdul Khaliq Gajadwani (died 1179), the last three of the eleven being added later by Baha-ud-Din Naqshband Bukhari (1318–1389), founder of the Naqshbandi Order. Both were Khwajagan (Masters) of the Sufi tariqah (path, way or method).\n\nThese principles are designed to be borne in mind and used as spiritual practices or exercises in the Naqshbandi system of spiritual development. They are carried out under individual tuition, expertly prescribed, monitored for changes, and carefully adjusted by a teacher, rather than being automatically performed.\n\nThe principles have been brought to the attention of contemporary Western audiences through the works of the writers Idries Shah, John G. Bennett, Omar Ali-Shah and J. Spencer Trimingham. The exercises were an important aspect of Omar Ali-Shah's work with groups in the modern Naqshbandi tradition in the West. For instance, one of Ali-Shah's books of edited transcripts, \"The Rules or Secrets of the Naqshbandi Order\", was devoted to this subject.\n\nThe eleven principles are as follows, shown in the order used by Idries Shah in \"A Perfumed Scorpion\", which differs slightly (in items 5 to 8) from the order presented by Omar Ali-Shah:\n\n1. Hush dar dam (or hosh dar dam) — awareness of breathing\n\n2. Nazar ba kadam (or nazar bar qadam) — watching over the steps\n\n3. Safar dar watan — travelling in the Homeland\n\n4. Khilwat dar anjuman (or khalwat dar anjuman) — retirement in company\n\n5. Yad kardan (or yad kard) — remembering, recollecting exercises\n\n6. Baaz gasht (or baz gasht) — restraint\n\n7. Neegar dashtan (or nigah dasht) — watchfulness, use of special faculties\n\n8. Yad dashtan (or yad dasht) — keeping of the memory, sensing of the being and the body\n\n9. Ukufi zamani (or wuquf-e zamani) — time-halt (or pause)\n\n10. Ukufi adadi (or wuquf-e adadi) — number-halt (or pause)\n\n11. Ukufi qalbi (or wuquf-e qalbi) — heart-halt (or pause) or visualisation\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40532597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40532597", "title": "Gabriel Jones (Virginia)", "text": "Gabriel Jones (Virginia)\n\nGabriel Jones (May 17, 1724 – October 1806) was an 18th-century Welsh American lawyer, legislator, court clerk and civil servant in the colony (and later U.S. state) of Virginia.\n\nJones attended Christ's Hospital (also known as \"The Bluecoat School\"), after which he served as an indentured apprentice studying jurisprudence under a solicitor in the Court of Chancery and of Lyon's Inn in Middlesex. At the age of 21, Jones was admitted to practice law following the completion of his apprenticeship. He was persuaded by either Thomas Fairfax, 6th Lord Fairfax of Cameron, the landowner of the Northern Neck Proprietary, or his relative Hugh Mercer to return to Virginia, where he engaged in the practice of law.\n\nJones served as Clerk of Court for Hampshire County, Virginia (now West Virginia) for a tenure lasting 25 years (1757–1782) and represented Frederick, Hampshire, and Augusta counties as a member of the House of Burgesses of Virginia. In addition, Jones also served as the King's Attorney for Augusta County and as the coroner for Frederick County. He was elected to represent Virginia at the Continental Congress but did not attend, and was elected to represent Rockingham County in the Virginia Ratifying Convention. Jones was an uncle of American pioneer John Gabriel Jones (1752–1776), and he was a friend of both George Washington and Thomas Fairfax, 6th Lord Fairfax of Cameron.\n\nGabriel Jones was born on May 17, 1724, approximately from Williamsburg, in York County, Colony of Virginia. He was a son of John and Elizabeth Jones, who had arrived in Virginia several years earlier from Montgomeryshire in northern Wales, Great Britain, where Jones's family was of noble descent. Jones's father was a weaver. Jones's elder sister Elizabeth was born on August 13, 1721, at the College of William & Mary in Williamsburg, and his younger brother John was born on June 12, 1725, at the same location as Jones.\n\nAccording to Jones family tradition, Jones's father lost a significant amount of his wealth while in Virginia, which brought about his family's return to England in 1727. Jones's father's death prior to 1727 also precipitated the family's move, and following their relocation to England, Elizabeth raised Jones and his siblings in London where she had Jones's sister baptized at St Giles in the Fields on February 20, 1727.\n\nIn April 1732, Jones was granted admission to Christ's Hospital (also known as \"The Bluecoat School\") in London following his presentation by Thomas Sandford. Jones attended Christ's Hospital for seven years. On April 12, 1739, he was discharged from the institution by his mother and John Houghton, a Solicitor in the Court of Chancery and of Lyon's Inn in Middlesex. Despite its noble origins, Jones's family was of limited means, and he served as an indentured apprentice studying jurisprudence under Houghton's charge for a term of six years until 1745. At the age of 21, Jones was admitted to practice law following the completion of his apprenticeship.\n\nFollowing his admission to the bar and the death of his mother in 1745, Jones was persuaded by either Thomas Fairfax, 6th Lord Fairfax of Cameron, the landowner of the Northern Neck Proprietary, or his relative Hugh Mercer to return to Virginia. Once he was \"free of his indentures\" and had \"attained his majority\", Jones secured his return to Virginia. He settled first in Fredericksburg and later relocated to Frederick County, after which on March 1, 1747, he acquired a tract of land along Opequon Creek near present-day Kernstown, where he resided for several years. Upon settling in Frederick County, Jones became the private secretary to Lord Fairfax.\n\nJones was appointed to serve as the first King's Attorney for Augusta County around April 1746, at the age of 22. The county's court recommended Jones to the position, citing him \"as a fit person to transact His Majesty's affairs in this county\". Jones continued to reside in Frederick County while performing the duties of King's Attorney in Augusta County. When the first appointed justices of Augusta County assembled on December 9, 1745, the body qualified Jones to practice as an \"attorney-at-law\" in the county. He was the first lawyer to reside within the then-boundaries of Augusta County. Jones served in that position for two years until his election to represent Frederick County as a member of the House of Burgesses of Virginia in 1748, and he was subsequently re-elected to his seat for the 1749 legislative session. From 1748 to 1750, Jones represented Frederick County alongside George Fairfax.\n\nJones was again elected to represent Frederick County in the House of Burgesses in 1752, but resigned in 1753 to serve as the county's coroner. From 1752 until 1754, Jones represented Frederick County alongside George William Fairfax. In 1753, Jones relocated from Kernstown in Frederick County to his estate \"Bogota\" in Augusta County (present-day Rockingham County near the modern unincorporated community of Port Republic). From 1754 to 1755, Jones served alongside a Mr. Parker representing Hampshire County in the House of Burgesses. Jones and Parker were Hampshire County's first representatives in the House of Burgesses following the county's creation on May 1, 1754. Jones, along with Lord Fairfax, was appointed as a trustee for the towns of Winchester and Stephensburg (present-day Stephens City) charged with laying out the towns and establishing regulations for the construction of residences in each town.\n\nIn 1757, Jones was appointed by Thomas Fairfax, 6th Lord Fairfax of Cameron, to serve as Clerk of Court for Hampshire County. Jones was on close terms with Lord Fairfax, and George Rockingham Gilmer described Jones as a \"kinsman, friend and executor of Lord Fairfax\". Despite the county's establishment in 1754, it was not until 1757 that formal record-keeping was actualized in Hampshire County, due in part to the French and Indian War. While Archibald Wager was likely the first appointed Clerk of Court for Hampshire County, Jones was the first operational appointee to serve in the position. According to historian Wilmer L. Kerns in \"Hampshire County, West Virginia, 1754–2004\" (2004), Jones was \"well-organized\" and had the \"best penmanship of any clerk in the history of the county, in spite of being totally blind in his right eye\". Historians Hu Maxwell and Howard Llewellyn Swisher described Jones's handwriting as \"unmistakable\" in their \"History of Hampshire County, West Virginia\" (1897).\n\nAround 1760, Jones hired Samuel Dew of Richmond County to serve as his deputy clerk. Dew apprenticed under Jones for 21 years, occasionally performing duties as acting clerk. Due to his close relationship with Lord Fairfax, it is likely that Jones was Clerk of Court of neighboring counties also under the ownership of Lord Fairfax's Northern Neck Proprietary. According to Maxwell and Swisher, Jones relied upon his deputy clerks, such as Dew, to transcribe and document court proceedings, which Jones traveled among the various counties to sign.\n\nWhile serving as Clerk of Court, Jones was again elected to serve as a member of the House of Burgesses representing Augusta County from 1757 until 1758 and Hampshire County from 1758 until 1761. It was during this period that Jones formed a close relationship with George Washington, and the two regularly corresponded. Jones was elected to serve a final term in the House of Burgesses representing Augusta County in 1771. In 1774, Jones was elected to represent Virginia in the Continental Congress but did not attend. When Jones's Bogota estate became part of the newly minted Rockingham County following its creation from Augusta County in 1778, Jones thus became a citizen of Rockingham and was summarily appointed as its Deputy Commonwealth's Attorney. Jones was also commissioned to ascertain the \"pay and subsistence\" of the Virginia militia and damages caused by Cherokee and Catawba Native American tribes throughout the Virginia frontier. In addition, Jones was appointed, along with Samuel Washington and George Read, by the Continental Congress and Virginia to travel to Fort Pitt, Pennsylvania, to inquire about \"the condition of affairs there\" in 1777. Following the death of Lord Fairfax in 1781, Jones was one of the executors of Lord Fairfax's will.\n\nJones served as Clerk of Court for Hampshire County for a tenure spanning 25 years until his retirement from the position in 1782. In their \"History of Hampshire County, West Virginia\" (1897), Maxwell and Swisher theorize that Jones retired from his position due in part to Lord Fairfax's death the previous year and waning British influence in Virginia toward the conclusion of the American Revolutionary War.\n\nFollowing his retirement from his position as Clerk of Court for Hampshire County, Jones continued to remain active in Virginia political affairs. In 1784, George Washington visited and dined with Jones at his home at Bogota. In 1788, Jones and his brother-in-law Thomas Lewis were elected to represent Rockingham County at the Virginia Ratifying Convention, where both were fervent proponents for the adoption of the United States Constitution. Archibald Stuart of neighboring Augusta County traveled to Rockingham to canvass for Jones prior to the election, and in return, Jones gifted Stuart a chaise for he and his wife to return home in to Augusta County. Jones was among the first trustees of the Staunton Academy, following its incorporation by an act of the Virginia General Assembly on December 4, 1792.\n\nJones continued to practice law in Rockingham County until his death. The road upon which he regularly traveled between his residence Bogota and Rockingham County's seat of Harrisonburg became known as \"The Lawyer's Road\", which evolved to its present name of \"Lawyer Road\". Because of his prominence throughout the Valley of Virginia region, and possibly also due to the fact he may have been the first lawyer in Augusta County, Jones was nicknamed \"The Valley Lawyer\". Jones died at his estate Bogota in October 1806.\n\nIn the spring of 1887, a memorial window to Jones and his wife was installed in a new Episcopal church erected near their former Bogota residence. Jones was further memorialized in historian Joseph Addison Waddell's \"Annals of Augusta County, Virginia\" (1886), in which Waddell remarked of Jones: \"He was considered a man of great ability and unbending integrity. His only fault, or the only one which tradition tells of, was an extremely irritable temper, which, when aroused, expressed itself in the strongest terms he could command, mingled with no little profanity. Having a scorn of all dishonesty and meanness, he did not spare a miscreant by tongue or pen.\" In his \"Historic Families of Kentucky\" (1889), historian and genealogist Thomas Marshall Green said of Jones: \"Gabriel Jones rose rapidly in his profession; in attainments he was second to no man at the colonial bar; in native ability he was conspicuous among those who stood in the first rank.\"\n\nJones was married on October 16, 1749, to Margaret Strother Morton (1726–1822), the widow of George Morton and the daughter of William Strother and his wife Margaret Watts of King George County. Jones's wife lived to be 97, and was described by Waddell in his \"Annals of Augusta County, Virginia\" as \"a lady of eminent Christian character\". Jones and his wife Margaret had three daughters, one son, and a child of unknown sex that died in infancy: Margaret Morton Jones Harvie, married to lawyer Colonel John Harvie of Albemarle County; Elizabeth Jones Lewis, married to merchant John Lewis of Fredericksburg (son of Fielding Lewis and his first wife Catharine Washington); Anna Gabriella Jones Hawkins, married to John Hawkins of Kentucky; and William Strother Jones (born March 21, 1756), married to Fanny Thornton of Fredericksburg.\n\nJones was an Anglican. As early as 1750, Jones used the same family crest and coat of arms as philologist Sir William Jones, indicating a possible familial relationship between the two. Physically, Jones was of short stature, and according to an extant contemporary portrait of him by artist John Drinker, Jones sported a wig and an eyepatch over his right eye. According to Jones's descendants, it was supposed that his right eye was injured in his earlier years while others attributed the loss of his right eye to an accident during his later years. Jones was completely blind in his right eye, and had likely suffered his injury prior to his tenure as Clerk of Court for Hampshire County in 1757. Philip Doddridge described Jones as wearing a bicorne hat, \"frilled shirt bosom\", and waistbands. He further described Jones as sporting \"powdered hair\", a blue coat, a white vest, a cravat, silk stockings, and silver knee and shoe buckles.\n\nIn his spare time during and between holding political appointments and serving in elected offices, Jones regularly embarked upon \"pleasure trips\" to various American cities including Baltimore and Richmond. Another known pastime of Jones's was gaming. According to Maxwell and Swisher in their \"History of Hampshire County, West Virginia\" (1897), Jones had been gambling over the course of several days while in Richmond until a final game left him with only one shilling remaining in his pocketbook. Jones was wearing a coat fastened with twelve gold buttons each valued at five dollars, and undeterred after losing his last shilling, he began staking one gold button at a time until he was left with one. Without hesitation, Jones removed his final button and remarked: \"Here goes the last button on Gabe's coat.\" Maxwell and Swisher state that Jones's remark \"became a proverb in Hampshire County\" and was used when someone had been driven to extremes and utilized what little resources were left at their disposal.\n\nJones settled in Frederick County and on March 1, 1747, he acquired a tract of land along Opequon Creek near present-day Kernstown, where he resided for several years. On August 8, 1751, Jones acquired from Christopher Francisco of Pennsylvania of land along the northern side of the South Fork Shenandoah River in Augusta County (later Rockingham County) near the present-day unincorporated community of Port Republic.\n\nWhile still a resident in Frederick County, Jones purchased another on the northern side of the James River in Botetourt County. On December 3, 1753, Jones sold his property near Kernstown in Frederick County and relocated to his tract of land along the Shenandoah River, on which he established his estate later known as Bogota. Jones was the first to settle and construct a residence on his Bogota property upon his arrival in 1753, and the estate received its name under Jones's occupancy. Jones continued to reside at Bogota until his death in 1806.\n\nFollowing Jones's death in 1806, his widow Margaret Morton Jones continued to reside at Bogota until her own death in 1822. Jaquelin Harvie, the son of Jones's daughter Margaret Jones Harvie and her husband John Harvie, purchased the Bogota estate after the death of Jones's wife, and Harvie subsequently sold the property in 1830 to Jacob Strayer, who built the current house in 1845–1847. The original house erected and occupied by Jones was demolished shortly after the construction of the current house. The site of Jones's house is presently located on property no longer part of the Bogota estate, which was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on March 25, 2009. A log tenant house estimated to have been built during the mid-18th century during the ownership of the Jones family is extant, and remains part of the current Bogota estate, as of 2008.\n\nExplanatory notes\n\nCitations\n\n"}
{"id": "3268926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3268926", "title": "Great Oxygenation Event", "text": "Great Oxygenation Event\n\nThe Great Oxygenation Event, the beginning of which is commonly known in scientific media as the Great Oxidation Event (GOE, also called the Oxygen Catastrophe, Oxygen Crisis, Oxygen Holocaust, Oxygen Revolution, or Great Oxidation) was the biologically induced appearance of dioxygen (O) in Earth's atmosphere. Geological, isotopic, and chemical evidence suggests that this major environmental change happened around 2.45 billion years ago (2.45 Ga), during the Siderian period, at the beginning of the Proterozoic eon. The causes of the event remain unclear. , the geochemical and biomarker evidence for the development of oxygenic photosynthesis before the Great Oxidation Event has been mostly inconclusive.\n\nOceanic cyanobacteria, which evolved into coordinated (but not multicellular or even colonial) macroscopic forms more than 2.3 billion years ago (approximately 200 million years before the GOE), are believed to have become the first microbes to produce oxygen by photosynthesis. Before the GOE, any free oxygen they produced was chemically captured by dissolved iron or by organic matter. The GOE started when oxygen produced by the cyanobacteria started escaping into the atmosphere, after other oxygen reservoirs were filled.\n\nThe increased production of oxygen set Earth's original atmosphere off-balance. Free oxygen is toxic to obligate anaerobic organisms, and the rising concentrations may have destroyed most such organisms at the time.\n\nA spike in chromium contained in ancient rock-deposits formed underwater shows the accumulation had been washed off from the continental shelves. Chromium is not easily dissolved and its release from rocks would have required the presence of a powerful acid. One such acid, sulfuric acid (HSO), might have formed through bacterial reactions with pyrite. Mats of oxygen-producing cyanobacteria can produce a thin layer, one or two millimeters thick, of oxygenated water in an otherwise anoxic environment even under thick ice; before oxygen started accumulating in the atmosphere, these organisms would already have adapted to oxygen. Additionally, the free oxygen would have reacted with atmospheric methane, a greenhouse gas, greatly reducing its concentration and triggering the Huronian glaciation, possibly the longest episode of glaciation in Earth's history and called \"snowball Earth\".\nEventually, the evolution of aerobic organisms that consumed oxygen established an equilibrium in its availability. Free oxygen has been an important constituent of the atmosphere ever since.\n\nThe most widely accepted chronology of the Great Oxygenation Event suggests that free oxygen was first produced by prokaryotic and then later eukaryotic organisms that carried out photosynthesis more efficiently, producing oxygen as a waste product. The first oxygen-producing organisms arose long before the GOE, perhaps as early as .\n\nInitially, the oxygen they produced would have quickly been removed from the atmosphere by the chemical weathering of reducing (oxidizable) minerals, most notably iron. This 'mass rusting' led to the deposition of iron(III) oxide in the form of banded-iron formations such as the sediments in Minnesota and Pilbara, Western Australia. The saturation of these mineral sinks, and the resulting persistence of oxygen in the atmosphere, led within 50 million years to the start of the GOE. Oxygen could have accumulated very rapidly: at today's rates of photosynthesis (much greater than those in the Precambrian without land plants), modern atmospheric O levels could be produced in only 2,000 years.\n\nAnother hypothesis is that oxygen producers did not evolve until a few million years before the major rise in atmospheric oxygen concentration. This is based on a particular interpretation of a supposed oxygen indicator used in previous studies, the mass-independent fractionation of sulfur isotopes. This hypothesis would eliminate the need to explain a lag in time between the evolution of oxyphotosynthetic microbes and the rise in free oxygen.\n\nIn either case, oxygen did eventually accumulate in the atmosphere, with two major consequences.\n\nFirstly, it oxidized atmospheric methane (a strong greenhouse gas) to carbon dioxide (a weaker one) and water. This decreased the greenhouse effect of the Earth's atmosphere, causing planetary cooling, and triggered the Huronian glaciation. Starting around 2.4 billion years ago, this lasted 300-400 million years, and may have been the longest ever snowball Earth episode.\n\nSecondly, the increased oxygen concentrations provided a new opportunity for biological diversification, as well as tremendous changes in the nature of chemical interactions between rocks, sand, clay, and other geological substrates and the Earth's air, oceans, and other surface waters. Despite the natural recycling of organic matter, life had remained energetically limited until the widespread availability of oxygen. This breakthrough in metabolic evolution greatly increased the free energy available to living organisms, with global environmental impacts. For example, mitochondria evolved after the GOE, giving organisms the energy to exploit new, more complex morphologies interacting in increasingly complex ecosystems.\nThere may have been a gap of up to 900 million years between the start of photosynthetic oxygen production and the geologically rapid increase in atmospheric oxygen about 2.5–2.4 billion years ago. Several hypotheses propose to explain this time lag.\n\nThe oxygen increase had to await tectonically driven changes in the Earth, including the appearance of shelf seas, where reduced organic carbon could reach the sediments and be buried. The newly produced oxygen was first consumed in various chemical reactions in the oceans, primarily with iron. Evidence is found in older rocks that contain massive banded iron formations apparently laid down as this iron and oxygen first combined; most present-day iron ore lies in these deposits. Evidence suggests oxygen levels spiked each time smaller land masses collided to form a super-continent. Tectonic pressure thrust up mountain chains, which eroded to release nutrients into the ocean to feed photosynthetic cyanobacteria.\n\nEarly chemosynthetic organisms likely produced methane, an important trap for molecular oxygen, since methane readily oxidizes to carbon dioxide (CO) and water in the presence of UV radiation. Modern methanogens require nickel as an enzyme cofactor. As the Earth's crust cooled and the supply of volcanic nickel dwindled, oxygen-producing algae began to out-perform methane producers, and the oxygen percentage of the atmosphere steadily increased. From 2.7 to 2.4 billion years ago, the rate of deposition of nickel declined steadily from a level 400 times today's.\n\nAnother hypothesis posits a model of the atmosphere that exhibits bistability: two steady states of oxygen concentration. The state of stable low oxygen concentration (0.02%) experiences a high rate of methane oxidation. If some event raises oxygen levels beyond a moderate threshold, the formation of an ozone layer shields UV rays and decreases methane oxidation, raising oxygen further to a stable state of 21% or more. The Great Oxygenation Event can then be understood as a transition from the lower to the upper steady states.\n\nAnother theory credits the appearance of cyanobacteria with suppressing hydrogen gas and increasing oxygen.\n\nSome bacteria in the early oceans could separate water into hydrogen and oxygen. Under the Sun's rays, hydrogen molecules were incorporated into organic compounds, with oxygen as a by-product. If the hydrogen-heavy compounds were buried, it would have allowed oxygen to accumulate in the atmosphere.\n\nHowever, in 2001 scientists realized that the hydrogen would instead escape into space through a process called methane photolysis, in which methane releases its hydrogen in a reaction with oxygen. This could explain why the early Earth stayed warm enough to sustain oxygen-producing lifeforms.\n\nThe oxygen indicator might have been misinterpreted. During the proposed lag era in the previous theory, there was a change in sediments from mass-independently fractionated (MIF) sulfur to mass-dependently fractionated (MDF) sulfur. This was assumed to show the appearance of oxygen in the atmosphere, since oxygen would have prevented the photolysis of sulfur dioxide, which causes MIF. However, the change from MIF to MDF of sulfur isotopes may instead have been caused by an increase in glacial weathering, or the homogenization of the marine sulfur pool as a result of an increased thermal gradient during the Huronian glaciation period (which in this interpretation was not caused by oxygenation).\n\nThe Great Oxygenation Event triggered an explosive growth in the diversity of minerals, with many elements occurring in one or more oxidized forms near the Earth's surface. It is estimated that the GOE was directly responsible for more than 2,500 of the total of about 4,500 minerals found on Earth today. Most of these new minerals were formed as hydrated and oxidized forms due to dynamic mantle and crust processes. \n\nIt has been proposed that a local rise in oxygen levels due to cyanobacterial photosynthesis in ancient microenvironments was highly toxic to the surrounding biota, and that this selective pressure drove the evolutionary transformation of an archaeal lineage into the first eukaryotes. Oxidative stress involving production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) might have acted in synergy with other environmental stresses (such as ultraviolet radiation and/or desiccation) to drive selection in an early archaeal lineage towards eukaryosis. This archaeal ancestor may already have had DNA repair mechanisms based on DNA pairing and recombination and possibly some kind of cell fusion mechanism. The detrimental effects of internal ROS (produced by endosymbiont proto-mitochondria) on the archaeal genome could have promoted the evolution of meiotic sex from these humble beginnings. Selective pressure for efficient DNA repair of oxidative DNA damages may have driven the evolution of eukaryotic sex involving such features as cell-cell fusions, cytoskeleton-mediated chromosome movements and emergence of the nuclear membrane. Thus the evolution of eukaryotic sex and eukaryogenesis were likely inseparable processes that evolved in large part to facilitate DNA repair. Constant pressure of endogenous ROS has been proposed to explain the ubiquitous maintenance of meiotic sex in eukaryotes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "191393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191393", "title": "HMS Good Hope (1901)", "text": "HMS Good Hope (1901)\n\nHMS \"Good Hope\" was one of four \"Drake\"-class armoured cruisers built for the Royal Navy around 1900; she was originally named \"Africa\", but was renamed before she was launched. She became flagship of the 1st Cruiser Squadron of the Atlantic Fleet in 1906, and was the flagship of the 2nd Cruiser Squadron in 1908. She was reduced to reserve in 1913, but was recommissioned in mid-1914.\n\nWhen war was declared in August 1914, \"Good Hope\" was ordered to reinforce the 4th Cruiser Squadron and became the flagship of Rear Admiral Christopher Cradock. Cradock moved the available ships of his squadron later that month to the coast of South America to search for German commerce raiders. He was then ordered further south to the Strait of Magellan to block any attempt of the German East Asia Squadron to penetrate into the South Atlantic. He found the German squadron on 1 November off the coast of Chile. The German squadron outnumbered Cradock's force and were individually more powerful; they sank Cradock's two armoured cruisers in the Battle of Coronel. \"Good Hope\" was lost with all hands.\n\n\"Good Hope\" was designed to displace . The ship had an overall length of , a beam of and a deep draught of . She was powered by two 4-cylinder triple-expansion steam engines, each driving one shaft, which produced a total of and gave a maximum speed of . The engines were powered by 43 Belleville boilers. She carried a maximum of of coal and her complement consisted of 900 officers and ratings.\n\nHer main armament consisted of two breech-loading (BL) Mk X guns in single gun turrets, one each fore and aft of the superstructure. Her secondary armament of sixteen BL 6-inch Mk VII guns was arranged in casemates amidships. Eight of these were mounted on the main deck and were only usable in calm weather. A dozen quick-firing (QF) 12-pounder 12 cwt guns were fitted for defence against torpedo boats. Two additional 12-pounder 8 cwt guns could be dismounted for service ashore. \"Good Hope\" also carried three 3-pounder Hotchkiss guns and two submerged torpedo tubes.\n\nThe ship's waterline armour belt had a maximum thickness of and was closed off by transverse bulkheads. The armour of the gun turrets and their barbettes was 6 inches thick while the casemate armour was 5 inches thick. The protective deck armour ranged in thickness from and the conning tower was protected by of armour.\n\n\"Good Hope\", named after the British colony on the Cape of Good Hope, was laid down on 11 September 1899 with the name of \"Africa\" by Fairfield Shipbuilding & Engineering at their Govan shipyard. She was renamed \"Good Hope\" on 2 October and launched on 21 February 1901, when she was formally named by Mrs. (Ethel) Elgar, wife of Francis Elgar, manager of the shipbuilding company. She arrived in Portsmouth to be completed and armed in late December 1901. Captain Charles Edward Madden was appointed in command as she was completed in late 1902.\n\nIn 1906 she became the flagship of the 1st Cruiser Squadron, Atlantic Fleet and was the flagship of the 2nd Cruiser Squadron when she visited South Africa two years later. \"Good Hope\" was placed in reserve in 1913.\n\nUpon recommissioning in mid-1914, she was briefly assigned to the 6th Cruiser Squadron in August before being assigned to the 4th Cruiser Squadron to reinforce Cradock's forces. He transferred his flag to her because she was faster than his previous flagship. Cradock's command was transferred to the coast of South America later that month at his own suggestion to better hunt for the German ships preying upon British merchant ships. His ships were generally unsuccessful in this and he moved his squadron further south in late September to search for the East Asia Squadron, under the command of Vice Admiral Graf Maximilian von Spee, in the vicinity of Cape Horn and the Strait of Magellan in accordance to his orders from the Admiralty.\n\nAt the end of September, Cradock made his first fruitless search of the Tierra del Fuego area and later detached three of his ships to search up the Chilean coast, reaching Valparaiso on 15 October, while \"Good Hope\" returned to Port Stanley, in the Falkland Islands, to recoal and to reestablish communications with the Admiralty. He received word on 7 October that Spee's ships were definitely bound for the Cape Horn region and waited for the elderly predreadnought battleship to reinforce his squadron. She was in poor mechanical condition when she arrived at Port Stanley and required time to make repairs. \"Good Hope\" sailed on 22 October without her, going around Cape Horn, while \"Canopus\" and three colliers departed the following day, taking the shorter route through the Strait of Magellan.\n\n\"Good Hope\" rendezvoused with the rest of the squadron at Vallenar Roads in the remote Chonos Archipelago of Chile on 27 October to recoal. They departed two days later, just as \"Canopus\" arrived, Cradock ordering the battleship to follow as soon as possible. He sent the light cruiser to scout ahead and to enter Coronel, Chile to pick up any messages from the Admiralty and acquire intelligence regarding German activities. The cruiser began to pick up German radio signals from the light cruiser on the afternoon of 29 October, and delayed entering Coronel for two days with Cradock's permission to avoid being trapped by the fast German ships. A German supply ship was already there and radioed Spee that \"Glasgow\" had entered the harbour around twilight. The cruiser departed on the morning of 1 November, but Spee had already made plans to catch her when informed of her presence the previous evening.\n\n\"Glasgow\" departed Coronel at 09:15 after having picked up the squadron's mail and rendezvoused with the rest of the squadron four hours later. Cradock ordered his ships to form line abreast with an interval of between ships to maximise visibility at 13:50, and steered north at a speed of . At 16:17 \"Leipzig\" spotted \"Glasgow\", the easternmost British ship, to its west and she spotted \"Leipzig\"s funnel smoke three minutes later. At 17:10 Cradock ordered his ships to head for \"Glasgow\", the closest ship to the Germans. Once gathered together, he formed them into line astern, with \"Good Hope\" in the lead, steering southeasterly at at 18:18. As the sixteen guns aboard the armoured cruisers \"Scharnhorst\" and were only matched by the two 9.2-inch guns on his flagship, he needed to close the range to bring his more numerous 6-inch guns to bear. The Force 7 winds and high seas, however, prevented the use of half of those guns as they were too close to the water. He also wanted to use the setting sun to his advantage so that its light would blind the German gunners. Spee was well aware of the British advantages and refused to allow Cradock to close the range. His ships were faster than the British, slowed by the 16-knot maximum speed of the armed merchant cruiser , and he opened up the range to until conditions changed to suit him. The sun set at 18:50, which silhouetted the British ships against the light sky while the German ships became indistinguishable from the shoreline behind them.\n\nSpee immediately turned to close and signalled his ships to open fire at 19:04 when the range closed to . Spee's flagship, \"Scharnhorst\", engaged \"Good Hope\" while \"Gneisenau\" fired at \"Monmouth\". Cradock's flagship was hit on the \"Scharnhorst\"s third salvo, when shells knocked out her forward 9.2-inch turret and set her forecastle on fire. Cradock, knowing his only chance was to close the range, continued to do so despite the battering that Spee's ships inflicted. By 19:23 the range was almost half of that when the battle began and the British ships bore onwards. Spee tried to open the range, fearing a torpedo attack, but the British were only away at 19:35. Seven minutes later, \"Good Hope\" charged directly at the German ships, although they dodged out of her way. Spee ordered his armoured cruisers to concentrate their fire on the British flagship and she soon drifted to a halt with her topsides all aflame. At 19:50 her forward magazine exploded, severing the bow from the rest of the ship, and she later sank in the darkness. Spee estimated that his flagship had made 35 hits on \"Good Hope\", suffering only two hits in return that did no significant damage and failed even to wound one crewman. \"Good Hope\" was sunk with all hands, a total of 926 officers and enlisted men. Four of the midshipmen aboard the ship were the first casualties of the newly formed Royal Canadian Navy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1256970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1256970", "title": "Homeorhesis", "text": "Homeorhesis\n\nHomeorhesis, derived from the Greek for \"similar flow\", is a concept encompassing dynamical systems which return to a trajectory, as opposed to systems which return to a particular state, which is termed homeostasis.\n\nHomeorhesis is steady flow. Often biological systems are inaccurately described as homeostatic, being in a steady state. Steady state implies equilibrium which is never reached, nor are organisms and ecosystems in a closed environment. During his tenure at the State University of New York at Oneonta, Dr William Butts correctly applied the term homeorhesis to biological organisms. The term was first used in biology by C.H. Waddington around 1940, where he described the tendency of developing or changing organisms to continue development or adapting to their environment and changing towards a given state.\n\nIn ecology the concept is important as an element of the Gaia hypothesis, where the system under consideration is the ecological balance of different forms of life on the planet. It was Lynn Margulis, the coauthor of Gaia hypothesis, who wrote in particular that only homeorhetic, and not homeostatic, balances are involved in the theory. That is, the composition of Earth's atmosphere, hydrosphere, and lithosphere are regulated around \"set points\" as in homeostasis, but those set points change with time.\n"}
{"id": "2088095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088095", "title": "IJCAI Computers and Thought Award", "text": "IJCAI Computers and Thought Award\n\nThe IJCAI Computers and Thought Award is presented every two years by the International Joint Conferences on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI), recognizing outstanding young scientists in artificial intelligence. It was originally funded with royalties received from the book \"Computers and Thought\" (edited by Edward Feigenbaum and Julian Feldman), and is currently funded by IJCAI.\n\nIt is considered to be \"the premier award for artificial intelligence researchers under the age of 35\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14368827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14368827", "title": "Ideomotor apraxia", "text": "Ideomotor apraxia\n\nIdeomotor Apraxia, often IMA, is a neurological disorder characterized by the inability to correctly imitate hand gestures and voluntarily mime tool use, e.g. pretend to brush one's hair. The ability to spontaneously use tools, such as brushing one's hair in the morning without being instructed to do so, may remain intact, but is often lost. The general concept of apraxia and the classification of ideomotor apraxia were developed in Germany in the late 19th and early 20th centuries by the work of Hugo Liepmann, Adolph Kussmaul, Arnold Pick, Paul Flechsig, Hermann Munk, Carl Nothnagel, Theodor Meynert, and linguist Heymann Steinthal, among others. Ideomotor apraxia was classified as \"ideo-kinetic apraxia\" by Liepmann due to the apparent dissociation of the idea of the action with its execution. The classifications of the various subtypes are not well defined at present, however, owing to issues of diagnosis and pathophysiology. Ideomotor apraxia is hypothesized to result from a disruption of the system that relates stored tool use and gesture information with the state of the body to produce the proper motor output. This system is thought to be related to the areas of the brain most often seen to be damaged when ideomotor apraxia is present: the left parietal lobe and the premotor cortex. Little can be done at present to reverse the motor deficit seen in ideomotor apraxia, although the extent of dysfunction it induces is not entirely clear.\n\nIdeomotor apraxia (IMA) impinges on one's ability to carry out common, familiar actions on command, such as waving goodbye. Persons with IMA exhibit a loss of ability to carry out motor movements, and may show errors in how they hold and move the tool in attempting the correct function.\n\nOne of the defining symptoms of ideomotor apraxia is the inability to pantomime tool use. As an example, if a normal individual were handed a comb and instructed to pretend to brush his hair, he would grasp the comb properly and pass it through his hair. If this were repeated in a patient with ideomotor apraxia, the patient may move the comb in big circles around his head, hold it upside-down, or perhaps try and brush his teeth with it. The error may also be temporal in nature, such as brushing exceedingly slowly. The other characteristic symptom of ideomotor apraxia is the inability to imitate hand gestures, meaningless or meaningful, on request; a meaningless hand gesture is something like having someone make a ninety-degree angle with his thumb and placing it under his nose, with his hand in the plane of his face. This gesture has no meaning attached to it. In contrast, a meaningful gesture is something like saluting or waving goodbye. An important distinction here is that all of the above refer to actions that are consciously and voluntarily initiated. That is to say that a person is specifically asked to either imitate what someone else is doing or is given verbal instructions, such as \"wave goodbye.\" People suffering from ideomotor apraxia will know what they are supposed to do, e.g. they will know to wave goodbye and what their arm and hand should do to accomplish it, but will be unable to execute the motion correctly. This voluntary type of action is distinct from spontaneous actions. Ideomotor apraxia patients may still retain the ability to perform spontaneous motions; if someone they know leaves the room, for instance, they may be able to wave goodbye to that person, despite being unable to do so at request. The ability to perform this sort of spontaneous action is not always retained, however; some sufferers lose this capability, as well. The recognition of meaningful gestures, e.g. understanding what waving goodbye means when it is seen, seems to be unaffected by ideomotor apraxia. It has also been shown that ideomotor apraxia sufferers may have some deficits in general spontaneous movements. Apraxia patients appear to be unable to tap their fingers as quickly as a control group, with a lower maximum tapping rate correlated with more severe apraxia. It has also been demonstrated that apraxic patients are slower to point at a target light when they do not have sight of their hand as compared with healthy patients under the same conditions. The two groups did not differ when they could see their hands. The speed and accuracy of grasping objects also appears unaffected by ideomotor apraxia. Patients suffering from ideomotor apraxia appear to be much more reliant on visual input when conducting movements then nonapraxic individuals.\n\nThe most common cause of ideomotor apraxia is a unilateral ischemic lesion to the brain, which is damage to one hemisphere of the brain due to a disruption of the blood supply, as in a stroke. There are a variety of brain areas where lesions have been correlated to ideomotor apraxia. Initially it was believed that damage to the subcortical white matter tracts, the axons that extend down from the cells bodies in the cerebral cortex, was the main area responsible for this form of apraxia. Lesions to the basal ganglia may also be responsible, although there is considerable debate as to whether damage to the basal ganglia alone would be sufficient to induce apraxia. Lesions to these lower brain structures has not, however, been shown to be more prevalent in apraxic patients. In fact, these types of lesions are more common in nonapraxic patients. The lesions most associated with ideomotor apraxia are to the left parietal and premotor areas. Patients with lesions to the supplementary motor area have also presented with ideomotor apraxia. Lesions to the corpus callosum can also induce apraxic-like symptoms, with varying effects on the two hands, although this has not been thoroughly studied. In addition to ischemic lesions to the brain, ideomotor apraxia has also been seen in neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, corticobasal degeneration, and progressive supranuclear palsy.\n\nThe prevailing hypothesis for the pathophysiology of ideomotor apraxia is that the various brain lesions associated with the disorder somehow disrupt portions of the praxis system. The praxis system is the brain regions that are involved in taking processed sensory input, accessing of stored information about tools and gestures, and translating these into a motor output. Buxbaum et al. have proposed that the praxis system involves three distinct parts: stored gesture representations, stored tool knowledge, and a \"dynamic body schema.\" The first two store information about the representation of gestures in the brain and the characteristic movements of tools. The body schema is a brain model of the body and its position in space. The praxis system relates the stored information about a movement type to how the dynamic, i.e. changing, body representation varies as the movement progresses. It is still not clear how this system maps out onto the brain itself, although some research has given indications to possible locations for certain portions. The dynamic body schema has been suggested to be localized in the superior posterior parietal cortex. There is also evidence that the inferior parietal lobule may be the locus for storage of the characteristic movements of a tool. This area showed inverse activation to the cerebellum in a study of tool use and tool mime. If the connections between these areas become severed, the praxis system would be disrupted, possibly resulting in the symptoms observed in ideomotor apraxia.\nThere is no one definitive test for ideomotor apraxia; there are several that are used clinically to make an ideomotor apraxia diagnosis. The criteria for a diagnosis are not entirely conserved among clinicians, for apraxia in general or distinguishing subtypes. Almost all the tests laid out here that enable a diagnosis of ideomotor apraxia share a common feature: assessment of the ability to imitate gestures. A test developed by Georg Goldenberg uses imitation assessment of 10 gestures. The tester demonstrates the gesture to the patient and rates him on how whether the gesture was correctly imitated. If the first attempt to imitate the gesture was unsuccessful, the gesture is presented a second time; a higher score is given for correct imitation on the first trial, then for the second, and the lowest score is for not correctly imitating the gesture. The gestures used here are all meaningless, such as placing the hand flat on the top of the head or flat outward with the fingers towards the ear. This test is specifically designed for ideomotor apraxia. The main variation from this is in the type and number of gestures used. One test uses twenty-four movements with three trials for each and a trial-based scoring system similar to the Goldenberg protocol. The gestures here are also copied by the patient from the tester and are divided into finger movements, e.g. making a scissor movement with the forefinger and middle finger, and hand and arm movements, e.g. doing a salute. This protocol combines meaningful and meaningless gestures. Another test uses five meaningful gestures, such as waving goodbye or scratching your head and five meaningless gestures. Additional differences in this test are a verbal command to initiate the movement and it distinguishes between accurate performance and inaccurate but recognizable performance. One test utilizes tools, including a hammer and a key, with both a verbal command to use the tools and the patient copying the tester's demonstrated use of the tools. These tests have been shown to be individually unreliable, with considerable variability between the diagnoses delivered by each. If a battery of tests is used, however, the reliability and validity may be improved. It is also highly advisable to include assessments of how the patient performs activities in daily life. One of the newer tests that has been developed may provide greater reliability without relying on a multitude of tests. It combines three types of tool use with imitation of gestures. The tool use section includes having the patient pantomime use with no tool present, with visual contact with the tool, and finally with tactile contact with the tool. This test screens for ideational and ideomotor apraxia, with the second portion aimed specifically at ideomotor apraxia. One study showed great potential for this test, but further studies are needed to reproduce these results before this can be said with confidence. This disorder often occurs with other degenerative neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's Disease. These comorbidities can make it difficult to pick out the specific features of ideomotor apraxia. The important point in distinguishing ideomotor apraxia is that basic motor control is intact; it is a high level dysfunction involving tool use and gesturing. Additionally, clinicians must be careful to exclude aphasia as a possible diagnosis, as, in the tests involving verbal command, an aphasic patient could fail to perform a task properly because they do not understand what the directions are.\n\nGiven the complexity of the medical problems facing ideomotor apraxia patients, as they are usually suffering from a multitude of other problems, it is difficult to ascertain the impact that it has on their ability to function independently. Deficits due to Parkinson's or Alzheimer's disease could very well be sufficient to mask or make irrelevant difficulties arising from the apraxia. Some studies have shown ideomotor apraxia to independently diminish the patient's ability to function on their own. The general consensus seems to be that ideomotor apraxia does have a negative impact on independence in that it can reduce an individual's ability to manipulate objects, as well as diminishing the capacity for mechanical problem solving, owing to the inability to access information about how familiar parts of the unfamiliar system function. A small subset of patients has been known to spontaneously recover from apraxia; this is rare, however. One possible hope is the phenomenon of hemispheric shift, where functions normally performed by one hemisphere can shift to the other in the event that the first is damaged. This seems to necessitate, however, that some portion of the function is associated with the other hemisphere to begin with. There is dispute over whether the right hemisphere of the cortex is involved at all in the praxis system, as some evidence from patients with severed corpus callosums indicates it may not be.\n\nAlthough there is little that can be done to substantially reverse the effects of ideomotor apraxia, Occupational Therapy can be effective in helping patients regain some functional control. Sharing the same approach in treating ideational apraxia, this is achieved by breaking a daily task (e.g. combing hair) into separate components and teaching each distinct component individually. With ample repetition, proficiency in these movements can be acquired and should eventually be combined to create a single pattern of movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20687809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20687809", "title": "Impetigo herpetiformis", "text": "Impetigo herpetiformis\n\nImpetigo herpetiformis is a form of severe pustular psoriasis occurring in pregnancy which may occur during any trimester.\n\nIt is the only well known pustular psoriasis which is treated with steroids.\n\n"}
{"id": "32866171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32866171", "title": "John F. Kennedy assassination conspiracy theories", "text": "John F. Kennedy assassination conspiracy theories\n\nThe assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963 has spurred numerous conspiracy theories, which include accusations of involvement of the CIA, the Mafia, sitting Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson, Cuban Prime Minister Fidel Castro, the KGB, or even some combination thereof. Some conspiracy theories further claim that the United States federal government covered up crucial information in the aftermath of the assassination. Former Los Angeles District Attorney Vincent Bugliosi estimated that a total of 42 groups, 82 assassins, and 214 people had been accused at one time or another in various conspiracy scenarios.\n\nIn 1964, the Warren Commission concluded that Lee Harvey Oswald was the only person responsible for assassinating Kennedy. In 1979, the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) concluded that Kennedy was probably assassinated as a result of a conspiracy, although it did not identify any individuals or groups other than Oswald. The HSCA reasoned that a second gunman probably also fired at Kennedy, but acoustic evidence that the HSCA accepted in reaching its conclusions was later discredited by another set of experts. Other federal and municipal investigations have been conducted, most of which support the conclusions reached in the Warren Commission report. Nonetheless, a majority of Americans polled indicated a belief in some sort of conspiracy.\n\nPresident John F. Kennedy was assassinated by gunshot while traveling in a motorcade in an open-top limousine in Dallas, Texas at 12:30 pm CST on Friday, November 22, 1963; Texas Governor John Connally was wounded, but survived. Within two hours, Lee Harvey Oswald was arrested for killing Dallas policeman J. D. Tippit and arraigned that evening. Shortly after 1:30 am on Saturday, November 23, Oswald was arraigned for murdering President Kennedy as well. On Sunday, November 24, at 11:21 a.m., nightclub owner Jack Ruby fatally shot Oswald as he was being transferred from the city jail to the county jail.\n\nImmediately after the shooting, many people suspected that the assassination was part of a larger plot, and broadcasters speculated that Dallas right-wingers were involved. Ruby's shooting of Oswald compounded initial suspicions. Among conspiracy theorists, author Mark Lane has been described as writing \"the first literary shot\" with his article, \"Defense Brief for Oswald\", in the \"National Guardian\"s December 19, 1963 issue. Thomas Buchanan's \"Who Killed Kennedy?\", published in May 1964, has been credited as the first book to allege a conspiracy.\n\nIn 1964, the Warren Commission concluded that Oswald had acted alone and that no credible evidence supported the contention that he was involved in a conspiracy to assassinate the president. The Commission also indicated that then-Secretary of State Dean Rusk, then-Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara, then-Treasury Secretary C. Douglas Dillon, then-Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy, then-FBI director J. Edgar Hoover, then-CIA director John A. McCone, and then-Secret Service Chief James J. Rowley, each individually reached the same conclusion on the basis of information available to them. During the trial of Clay Shaw in 1969, however, New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison challenged the single-bullet theory with evidence from the Zapruder film, which he claimed indicated that a fourth shot from the grassy knoll had caused the fatal shot to Kennedy's head.\n\nIn 1979, the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) agreed with the Warren Commission that Oswald did, in fact, assassinate Kennedy, but concluded that the Commission's report and the original FBI investigation were seriously flawed. The HSCA concluded that at least four shots were fired with a \"high probability\" that two gunmen fired at the President, and that a conspiracy to do so was probable. The HSCA stated that the Warren Commission had \"failed to investigate adequately the possibility of a conspiracy to assassinate the President\". The Ramsey Clark Panel and the Rockefeller Commission both supported the Warren Commission's conclusions.\n\nThe last remaining documents under Section 5 of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 were released on October 26, 2017, while the remaining ones that are still classified will only be analyzed for redactions.\n\nAccording to author John C. McAdams, \"[t]he greatest and grandest of all conspiracy theories is the Kennedy assassination conspiracy theory.\" Others have often referred to it as \"the mother of all conspiracies\". The number of books written about the assassination of Kennedy has been estimated to be between 1,000 and 2,000. According to Vincent Bugliosi, 95% of those books are \"pro-conspiracy and anti-Warren Commission\".\n\nAuthor David Krajicek describes Kennedy assassination enthusiasts as people belonging to \"conspiracy theorists\" on one side and \"debunkers\" on the other. The great amount of controversy surrounding the event has resulted in bitter disputes between those who support the conclusion of the Warren Commission and those who reject it, or are critical of the official explanation with each side levelling toward the other accusations of \"naivete, cynicism, and selective interpretation of the evidence\".\n\nPublic opinion polls have consistently shown that most Americans believe there was a conspiracy to kill President Kennedy. However, on the question of a government cover-up, different polls show both a minority and a majority of Americans who believe the government was engaged in one. These same polls also show no agreement on who else may have been involved in the shooting. A 2003 Gallup Poll reported that 75% of Americans don't believe that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone. That same year an ABC News poll found that 70% of respondents suspected that the assassination involved more than one person. A 2004 Fox News poll noted that 66% of Americans thought there had been a conspiracy while 74% believed that there was a cover-up. As recently as 2009, some 76% of people polled for CBS News said they believed the President had been killed as the result of a conspiracy. A Gallup Poll from 2013 found that 61% of Americans, the lowest figure in nearly 50 years, believed other people besides Oswald were involved.\n\nNumerous researchers, author Mark Lane, Henry Hurt, Michael L. Kurtz, Gerald D. McKnight, Anthony Summers, and Harold Weisberg, have pointed out what they characterize as inconsistencies, oversights, exclusions of evidence, errors, changing stories, or changes made to witness testimony in the official Warren Commission investigation, which they say could suggest a cover-up.\n\nMichael Benson wrote that the Warren Commission received only information supplied to it by the FBI, and that its purpose was to rubber stamp the lone gunman theory.\n\nUnited States Senator and U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence member Richard Schweiker told author Anthony Summers in 1978 that he \"believe[d] that the Warren Commission was set up at the time to feed pabulum to the American public for reasons not yet known, and that one of the biggest cover-ups in the history of our country occurred at that time\".\n\nJames H. Fetzer took issue with a 1998 statement from Federal Judge and Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) Chairman John R. Tunheim, who stated that no \"smoking guns\" indicating a conspiracy or cover-up were discovered during their efforts in the early 1990s to declassify documents related to the assassination. Fetzer identified 16 \"smoking guns\" that he claims prove the official narrative is impossible, and therefore a conspiracy and cover-up occurred. He also claims that evidence released by the ARRB substantiates these concerns. These include problems with bullet trajectories, the murder weapon, the ammunition used, inconsistencies between the Warren Commission's account and the autopsy findings, inconsistencies between the autopsy findings and what was reported by witnesses at the scene of the murder, eyewitness accounts that conflict with x-rays taken of the President's body, indications that the diagrams and photos of the President's brain in the National Archives are not the President's, testimony by those who took and processed the autopsy photos that the photos were altered, created, or destroyed, indications that the Zapruder film had been tampered with, allegations that the Warren Commission's version of events conflicts with news reports from the scene of the murder, an alleged change to the motorcade route that facilitated the assassination, an alleged lax Secret Service and local law enforcement security, and statements made by people who claim that they had knowledge of, or participated in, a conspiracy to kill the President.\n\nIn 1966, Roscoe Drummond voiced skepticism about a cover-up in his syndicated column, saying, \"If there were a conspiracy to cover up the truth about the assassination, it would have to involve the Chief Justice, the Republican, Democratic, and non-party members of the commission, the FBI, the CIA, the Secret Service, the distinguished doctors of the armed services—and the White House—a conspiracy so multiple and complex that it would have fallen of its own weight.\"\n\nRichard Buyer wrote that many witnesses whose statements pointed to a conspiracy were either ignored or intimidated by the Warren Commission. In \"JFK: The Last Dissenting Witness\", a 1992 biography of Jean Hill, Bill Sloan wrote that Warren Commission assistance counsel Arlen Specter attempted to humiliate, discredit, and intimidate Hill into changing her story. Hill also told Sloan that she was abused by Secret Service agents, harassed by the FBI, and received death threats.\n\nA later book by Sloan, \"JFK: Breaking the Silence\", quotes several assassination eyewitnesses as saying that Warren Commission interviewers repeatedly cut short or stifled any comments casting doubt on the conclusion that Oswald had acted alone.\n\nIn his book \"Crossfire\", Jim Marrs gives accounts of several people who said they were intimidated by either FBI agents or anonymous individuals into altering or suppressing what they knew regarding the assassination. Some of those individuals include Richard Carr, Acquilla Clemmons, Sandy Speaker, and A. J. Millican. Marrs also wrote that Texas School Book Depository employee Joe Molina was \"intimidated by authorities and lost his job soon after the assassination\", and that witness Ed Hoffman was warned by an FBI agent that he \"might get killed\" had he revealed what he observed in Dealey Plaza on the day of the assassination.\n\nAllegations of mysterious or suspicious deaths of witnesses connected with the Kennedy assassination originated with Penn Jones, Jr., and were brought to national attention by the 1973 film \"Executive Action\". Jim Marrs later presented a list of 103 people he believed died \"convenient deaths\" under suspicious circumstances. He noted that the deaths were grouped around investigations conducted by the Warren Commission, New Orleans D.A. Jim Garrison, the Senate Intelligence Committee, and the House Select Committee on Assassinations. Marrs pointed out that \"these deaths certainly would have been convenient for anyone not wishing the truth of the JFK assassination to become public.\" In 2013, Richard Belzer published \"Hit List: An In-Depth Investigation into the Mysterious Deaths of Witnesses to the JFK Assassination\" that examines the deaths of 50 people linked to the assassination and claims they were murdered as part of a cover-up.\n\nVincent Bugliosi described the death of journalist Dorothy Kilgallen—who said she was granted a private interview with Jack Ruby—as \"perhaps the most prominent mysterious death\" cited by assassination researchers. According to author Jerome Kroth, Mafia figures Sam Giancana, John Roselli, Carlos Prio, Jimmy Hoffa, Charles Nicoletti, Leo Moceri, Richard Cain, Salvatore Granello, and Dave Yaras were likely murdered to prevent them from revealing their knowledge. According to author Matthew Smith, others with some tie to the case who have died suspicious deaths include Lee Bowers, Gary Underhill, William Sullivan, David Ferrie, Clay Shaw, George de Mohrenschildt, four showgirls who worked for Jack Ruby, and Ruby himself.\n\nThe House Select Committee on Assassinations investigated another alleged \"mysterious death\"—that of Rose Cheramie. The Committee reported that Louisiana State Police Lieutenant Francis Fruge traveled to Eunice, Louisiana, on November 20, 1963—two days before the assassination—to pick up Cheramie, who had sustained minor injuries when she was hit by a car. Fruge drove Cheramie to the hospital and said that on the way there, she \"... related to [him] that she was coming from Florida to Dallas with two men who were Italians or resembled Italians.\" Fruge asked her what she planned to do in Dallas, to which she replied: \"... number one, pick up some money, pick up [my] baby, and ... kill Kennedy.\" Cheramie was admitted and treated at State Hospital in Jackson, Louisiana for alcohol and heroin addiction.\n\nState Hospital physician Dr. Victor Weiss later told a House Select Committee investigator that on November 25—three days after the assassination—one of his fellow physicians told him that Cheramie had \"stated before the assassination that President Kennedy was going to be killed\". Dr. Weiss further reported that Cheramie told him after the assassination that she had worked for Jack Ruby and that her knowledge of the assassination originated from \"word in the underworld\". After the assassination, Lt. Fruge contacted Dallas Police Captain Will Fritz regarding what he had learned from Cheramie, but Fritz told him he \"wasn't interested\". Cheramie was found dead by a highway near Big Sandy, Texas, on September 4, 1965; she had been run over by a car.\n\nAnother \"suspicious death\" cited by Jim Marrs was that of Joseph Milteer, director of the Dixie Klan of Georgia. Milteer was secretly tape-recorded thirteen days before the assassination telling Miami police informant William Somersett that the murder of Kennedy was \"in the working\". Milteer died in 1974 when a heater exploded in his house. The House Select Committee on Assassinations reported in 1979 that Milteer's information on the threat to the President \"was furnished [to] the agents making the advance arrangements before the visit of the President\" to Miami, but that \"the Milteer threat was ignored by Secret Service personnel in planning the trip to Dallas.\" Robert Bouck, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Secret Service's Protective Research Section, testified that \"threat information was transmitted from one region of the country to another if there was specific evidence it was relevant to the receiving region.\"\n\nThe House Select Committee on Assassinations investigated the allegation \"that a statistically improbable number of individuals with some direct or peripheral association with the Kennedy assassination died as a result of that assassination, thereby raising the specter of conspiracy\". The committee's chief of research testified: \"Our final conclusion on the issue is that the available evidence does not establish anything about the nature of these deaths which would indicate that the deaths were in some manner, either direct or peripheral, caused by the assassination of President Kennedy or by any aspect of the subsequent investigation.\"\n\nAuthor Gerald Posner said that Marrs's list was taken from the group of about 10,000 people connected even in the most tenuous way to the assassination, including people identified in the official investigations, as well as the research of conspiracy theorists. Posner also said that it would be surprising if a hundred people out of ten thousand did not die in \"unnatural ways\". He noted that over half of the people on Marrs's list did not die mysteriously, but of natural causes, such as Secret Service agent Roy Kellerman, who died of heart failure at age 69 in 1984, long after the Kennedy assassination, but is on Marrs's list as someone whose cause of death is \"unknown\". Posner also pointed out that many prominent witnesses and conspiracy researchers continue to live long lives.\n\nAllegations saying that the evidence against Oswald was either planted, forged, or tampered with has been a main argument among anybody who believe a conspiracy has taken place.\n\nSome assassination researchers assert that witness statements indicating a conspiracy were ignored by the Warren Commission. In 1967, Josiah Thompson stated that the Commission ignored the testimonies of seven witnesses who saw gunsmoke right by the stockade fence on the grassy knoll, as well as an eighth witness who smelled gunpowder by the time the assassination occurred. In 1989, Jim Marrs wrote that the Commission failed to ask for the testimonies of witnesses on the triple underpass whose statements pointed to a shooter on the grassy knoll.\n\nOther researchers reported that witnesses who captured the assassination via photographs or film had their cameras confiscated by police or other authorities. Author Jim Marrs and documentary producer Nigel Turner both presented the account of Gordon Arnold who said that his film of the motorcade was taken by two policemen shortly after the assassination. Another witness, identified as Beverly Oliver, came forward in 1970 and said she was the \"Babushka Lady\" who is seen, in the Zapruder film, filming the motorcade. She also said that after the assassination, she was contacted at work by two men who she thought \"... were either FBI or Secret Service agents\". According to Oliver, the men told her that they wanted to develop her film and return it to her within ten days, but they never did so.\n\nRichard Buyer and others have complained that many documents pertaining to the assassination have been withheld over the years, including documents from investigations made by the Warren Commission, the House Select Committee on Assassinations, and the Church Committee. These documents individually included the President's autopsy records. Some documents still are not scheduled for release until 2029. Many documents were released during the mid-to-late 1990s by the Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992. However, some of the material released contains redacted sections. Tax return information, which identified employers and sources of income, has not yet been released.\n\nThe existence of several secret documents related to the assassination, as well as the long period of secrecy, suggests to some the possibility of a cover-up. One historian noted, \"There exists widespread suspicion about the government's disposition of the Kennedy assassination records stemming from the beliefs that Federal officials (1) have not made available all Government assassination records (even to the Warren Commission, Church Committee, House Assassination Committee) and (2) have heavily redacted the records released under FOIA in order to cover up sinister conspiracies.\" According to the ARRB, \"All Warren Commission records, except those records that contain tax return information, are (now) available to the public with only minor redactions.\" In response to a Freedom of Information Act request filed by journalist Jefferson Morley, the CIA stated in 2010 that it had over 1,100 documents in relation to the assassination, about 2,000 pages in total, that have not been released due to national security-related concerns.\n\nSome researchers have alleged that various items of physical evidence have been tampered with, including the \"single bullet\" (also known as the \"magic bullet\" by some critics of official explanations), various bullet cartridges and fragments, the presidential limousine's windshield, the paper bag in which the Warren Commission said Oswald hid the rifle, the so-called \"backyard\" photos depicting Oswald holding the rifle, the Zapruder film, the photographs and radiographs obtained at Kennedy's autopsy, and the president's dead body itself.\n\nAmong the evidence against Oswald are photographs of him holding a Carcano rifle — the weapon identified by the Warren Commission as the assassination weapon — in his backyard. The House Select Committee on Assassinations concluded that the Oswald photos are genuine and Oswald's wife, Marina, said that she took them. In 2009, the journal \"Perception\" published the findings of Hany Farid, a professor in the Department of Computer Science at Dartmouth College, who used 3D modeling software to analyze one of the photographs. After demonstrating that a single light source could create seemingly incongruent shadows, Farid concluded that the photograph revealed no evidence of tampering. Many researchers, including Robert Groden, assert that these photos are fake.\n\nIn 1979, after the HSCA had disbanded, Groden said that four autopsy photographs showing the back of Kennedy's head were forged to hide a wound fired from a second gunman. According to Groden, a photograph of a cadaver's head was inserted over another depicting a large exit wound in the back of the president's head. HSCA chief counsel G. Robert Blakey, in response to the allegations, stated that the \"suggestion that the committee would participate in a cover-up is absurd\" and that Groden was \"not competent to make a judgment on whether [or not] a photograph has been altered\". Blakey stated that the photographic analysis panel for the Committee had examined the photographs and that they \"considered everything [Groden] had to say and rejected it.\"\n\nThe House Select Committee on Assassinations described the Zapruder film as \"the best available photographic evidence of the number and timing of the shots that struck the occupants of the presidential limousine\". The Assassination Records Review Board said it \"is perhaps the single most important assassination record.\" According to Vincent Bugliosi, the film was \"originally touted by the vast majority of conspiracy theorists as incontrovertible proof of [a] conspiracy\" but is now believed by many assassination researchers to be a \"sophisticated forgery\". Among those who believe that the Zapruder film has been altered are John Costella, James H. Fetzer, David Lifton, David Mantik, Jack White, Noel Twyman, and Harrison Livingstone, who has called it \"the biggest hoax of the 20th century\". In 1996, former Kodak product engineer Roland Zavada was requested by the Assassination Records Review Board to undertake a thorough technical study of the Zapruder Film. Zavada concluded that there was no detectable evidence of manipulation or image alteration on the film's original version.\n\nDavid Lifton wrote that the Zapruder film was in the possession of the CIA's National Photographic Interpretation Center by the night of the assassination. Jack White, researcher and photographic consultant to the House Select Committee on Assassinations, claimed that there were anomalies in the Zapruder film, including an \"unnatural jerkiness of movement or change of focus ... in certain frame sequences\".\n\nIn his 1981 book \"Best Evidence\", author David Lifton presented the thesis that President Kennedy's dead body had been altered between the Dallas hospital and the autopsy site at Bethesda for the purposes of creating erroneous conclusions about the number and direction of the shots.\n\nThe Warren Commission found that the shots that killed Kennedy and wounded Connally were fired from an Italian 6.5mm Manlicher Carcano rifle owned by Oswald. Deputy Sheriff Eugene Boone and Deputy Constable Seymour Weitzman both initially identified the rifle found in the Texas School Book Depository as a 7.65 Mauser. Weitzman signed an affidavit the following day describing the weapon as a \"7.65 Mauser bolt action equipped with a 4/18 scope, a thick leather brownish-black sling on it\". Deputy Sheriff Roger Craig claimed that he saw \"7.65 Mauser\" bullets stamped on the barrel of the weapon. But when interviewed in 1968 by Barry Ernest, author of \"The Girl on the Stairs—The Search for a Missing Witness to the JFK Assassination\", Craig said: \"I felt then and I still feel now that the weapon was a 7.65 German Mauser ... I was there. I saw it when it was first pulled from its hiding place, and I am not alone in describing it as a Mauser.\" So, in the videotaped interview he said he read Mauser on the rifle, and to Ernest he said that he felt it was a Mauser.\n\nDallas District Attorney Henry Wade told the press that the weapon found in the Book Depository was a 7.65 Mauser, and the media reported this. But investigators later identified the rifle as a 6.5mm Carcano. In \"Matrix for Assassination\", author Richard Gilbride suggested that both weapons were involved in the assassination and that Dallas Police Captain Will Fritz and Lieutenant J. Carl Day both might have been conspirators.\n\nAddressing \"speculation and rumors\", the Warren Commission identified Weitzman as \"the original source of the speculation that the rifle was a Mauser\" and stated that \"police laboratory technicians subsequently arrived and correctly identified the [murder] weapon as a 6.5 Italian rifle.\"\n\nThe Warren Commission determined that three bullets were fired at the presidential motorcade. One of the three bullets missed the vehicle entirely; another bullet hit President Kennedy and passed through his body before striking Governor Connally; and the third bullet was the fatal head shot to the President. Some claim that the bullet that passed through President Kennedy's body and hit Governor Connally — dubbed by critics of the Commission as the \"magic bullet\" — was missing too little mass to account for the total weight of bullet fragments later found by the doctors who operated on Connally at Parkland Hospital. Those making this claim included the governor's chief surgeon, Dr. Robert Shaw, as well as two of Kennedy's autopsy surgeons, Commander James Humes and Lt. Colonel Pierre Finck. However, in his book \"Six Seconds in Dallas\", author Josiah Thompson took issue with this claim. Thompson added up the weight of the bullet fragments listed in the doctor reports and concluded that their total weight \"could\" have been less than the mass missing from the bullet.\n\nWith Connally's death in 1993, forensic pathologist Dr. Cyril Wecht and the Assassination Archives and Research Center petitioned Attorney General Janet Reno to recover the remaining bullet fragments from Connally's body, contending that the fragments would disprove the Warren Commission's single-bullet, single-gunman conclusion. The Justice Department replied that it \"... would have [had] no legal authority to recover the fragments unless Connally's family gave [it] permission [to do so].\" Connally's family refused permission.\n\nThe Warren Commission concluded that \"three shots were fired from the Texas School Book Depository in a time period ranging from approximately 4.8 to in excess of 7 seconds.\" Some assassination researchers, including Anthony Summers, dispute the Commission's findings. They point to evidence that brings into question the number of shots fired, the origin of the shots, and Oswald's ability to accurately fire three shots in such a short amount of time. These researchers suggest that multiple gunmen were involved.\n\nBased on the \"consensus among the witnesses at the scene\" and \"in particular the three spent cartridges\", the Warren Commission determined that \"the preponderance of the evidence indicated that three shots were fired\". In 1979, the House Select Committee on Assassinations concluded that there were four shots, one coming from the grassy knoll.\n\nThe Warren Commission, and later the House Select Committee on Assassinations, concluded that one of the shots hit President Kennedy in \"the back of his neck\", exited his throat, and struck Governor Connally in the back, exited the Governor's chest, shattered his right wrist, and implanted itself in his left thigh. This conclusion became known as the \"single bullet theory\".\n\nMary Moorman said in a TV interview that immediately after the assassination, there were either three or four shots close together, that shots were still being fired after the fatal head shot, and that she was in the line of fire. In 1967, Josiah Thompson concluded from a close study of the Zapruder film and other forensic evidence, corroborated by the eyewitnesses, that four shots were fired in Dealey Plaza, with one wounding Connally and three hitting Kennedy.\n\nOn the day of the assassination, Nellie Connally was seated in the presidential car next to Governor Connally, who was her husband. In her book \"From Love Field: Our Final Hours\", she said she believed that her husband was hit by a bullet separate from the two that hit Kennedy.\n\nThe Warren Commission concluded that all of the shots fired at President Kennedy came from the sixth-floor window at the southeast corner of the Texas School Book Depository. The Commission based its conclusion on the \"cumulative evidence of eyewitnesses, firearms and ballistic experts and medical authorities\", including onsite testing, as well as analysis of films and photographs conducted by the FBI and the US Secret Service.\n\nIn 1979, the House Select Committee on Assassinations agreed to publish a report from Warren Commission critic Robert Groden, in which he named \"nearly [two] dozen suspected firing points in Dealey Plaza\". These sites included multiple locations in or on the roof of the Texas School Book Depository, the Dal-Tex Building, the Dallas County Records Building, the triple overpass, a storm drain located along the north curb of Elm Street, and the Grassy Knoll. Josiah Thompson concluded that the shots fired at the motorcade came from three locations: the Texas School Book Depository, the Grassy Knoll, and the Dal-Tex Building.\n\nAccording to some assassination researchers, the grassy knoll was identified by most witnesses as the area from where shots were fired.\nIn March 1965, Harold Feldman wrote that there were 121 witnesses to the assassination listed in the Warren Report, 51 of whom indicated that the shots that killed Kennedy came from the grassy knoll, while 32 said the shots originated from the Texas School Book Depository. In 1967, Josiah Thompson examined the statements of 64 witnesses and concluded that 33 of them thought that the shots emanated from the grassy knoll.\n\nIn 1966, \"Esquire\" magazine credited Feldman with \"advanc[ing] the theory that there were two assassins: one on the grassy knoll and one in the Book Depository\". Jim Marrs also wrote that the weight of evidence suggested shots came from both the grassy knoll and the Texas School Book Depository.\n\nLee Bowers operated a railroad tower that overlooked the parking lot on the north side of the grassy knoll. He reported that he saw two men behind the grassy knoll's stockyard fence before the shooting took place. The men did not appear to be acting together or doing anything suspicious. After the shooting, Bowers said that one of the men remained behind the fence and lost track of the second man whose clothing blended into the foliage. When interviewed by Mark Lane, Bowers noted that he saw something that attracted his attention, either a flash of light or smoke from the knoll, allowing him to believe \"something out of the ordinary\" had occurred there. Bowers told Lane that he heard three shots, the last two in quick succession. He stated that there was no way they could have been fired from the same exact rifle. Bowers later purportedly said to his supervisor, Olan Degaugh, that he saw a man in the parking lot throw what looked like a rifle into one the cars. However, in that same 1966 interview, Bowers clarified that the two men he saw were standing in the opening between the pergola and the fence, and that \"no one\" was behind the fence once the shots were fired.\n\nJesse Price was the building engineer for the Terminal Annex Building, which is located across from the Texas School Book Depository on the opposite side of Dealey Plaza. He viewed the presidential motorcade from the Terminal Annex Building's roof. In an interview with Mark Lane, Price said that he believed the shots came from \"just behind the picket fence where it joins the [triple] underpass\".\n\nSeveral conspiracy theories posit that at least one shooter was located in the Dal-Tex Building, located across the street from the Texas School Book Depository. According to L. Fletcher Prouty, the physical location of James Tague when he was injured by a bullet fragment is not consistent with the trajectory of a missed shot from the Texas School Book Depository, leading Prouty to theorize that Tague was instead wounded by a missed shot from the second floor of the Dal-Tex Building.\n\nSome assassination researchers claim that FBI photographs of the presidential limousine show a bullet hole in its windshield above the rear-view mirror, and a crack in the windshield itself. When Robert Groden, author of \"The Killing of a President\", asked for an explanation, the FBI responded that what Groden thought was a bullet hole \"occurred prior to Dallas\". In 1993, George Whitaker, a manager at the Ford Motor Company's Rouge Plant in Detroit, told attorney and criminal justice professor Doug Weldon that after reporting to work on November 25, 1963, he discovered the presidential limousine in the Rouge Plant's B building with its windshield removed. Whitaker said that the limousine's removed windshield had a through-and-through bullet hole from the front. He said that he was directed by one of Ford's vice presidents to use the windshield as a template to fabricate a new windshield for installation in the limousine. Whitaker also said he was told to destroy the old one.\n\nFilm and photographic evidence of the assassination have led viewers to different conclusions regarding the origin of the shots. When the fatal shot was fired, the President's head and upper torso moved backwards — indicating, to many observers, a shot from the right front. Sherry Gutierrez, a certified crime scene and bloodstain pattern analyst, concluded that \"the [fatal] head injury to President Kennedy was the result of a single gunshot fired from the right front of the President.\" Paul Chambers believes that the fatal head shot is consistent with a high velocity (approx. 1,200 m/s; 4,000 ft/sec) rifle rather than the medium-velocity (600 m/s; 2,000 ft/sec) Mannlicher–Carcano. Although it has been thought that Zapruder film frames 312 and 313 show Kennedy's head moving forward before moving backwards, that close inspection of the frames show Kennedy's head actually moved downwards; Anthony Marsh claims that it was the deceleration of the car by driver William Greer that allowed the President's head to move in that direction. Some, including Josiah Thompson, Robert Groden, and Cyril Wecht, state that the film shows that his head was hit by two near-simultaneous bullets: one from the rear and the other from the right front.\n\nAccording to the House Select Committee on Assassinations, a Dictabelt recording of the Dallas Police Department radio dispatch transmissions from the day of the assassination was analyzed to \"resolve questions concerning the number, timing, and origin of the shots fired in Dealey Plaza\". They concluded that the source of the recording was from an open microphone on the motorcycle of H.B. McLain escorting the motorcade and that \"the scientific acoustical evidence established a high probability that two gunmen fired at President John F. Kennedy.\"\n\nThe acoustical analysis firm hired by the Committee recommended that they conduct an acoustical reconstruction of the assassination in Dealey Plaza so they could determine if any of the six impulse patterns on the dispatch tape were fired either from the Texas School Book Depository or from the grassy knoll. The reconstruction entailed firing from two locations in Dealey Plaza — the depository and the knoll—at particular target locations and recording the sounds through various microphones. The purpose for this was to determine if the sequences of impulses recorded during the reconstruction would match any of those within the dispatch tape. If they showed a positive result, then it would be possible to figure out if the impulse patterns on the dispatch tape were caused by shots fired from the depository and the knoll.\n\nIn 1978, at the behest of the House Select Committee on Assassinations, members of the Dallas Police Pistol Team participated in an acoustical reconstruction in which they would fire rifles and pistols from any of the locations selected by the researchers. During this reconstruction, the Dallas Police marksmen had no difficulty in hitting the targets. The Committee's firearms experts \"... testified that given the distance and angle from the sixth floor window to the location of the President's limousine, it would have been easier to use the open iron sights.\" The Warren Commission tests were carried out on assuming that Oswald, whom they and the Committee concluded fired the shots, had used the telescopic sight.\n\nAn article in \"Science & Justice\", a quarterly publication of Britain's Forensic Science Society, found there was a 96% certainty, based on analysis of audio recordings made during the assassination, that a shot was fired from the Grassy Knoll in front of and to the right of the President's limousine.\n\nThe acoustical evidence has since been discredited. Officer H.B. McLain, from whose motorcycle radio the HSCA acoustic experts said the Dictabelt evidence came, has repeatedly stated that he was not yet in Dealey Plaza once the assassination occurred. McLain asked the Committee, If it was my radio on my motorcycle, why did it not record the revving up at high speed plus my siren when we immediately took off for Parkland Hospital? \n\nIn 1982, a panel of 12 scientists appointed by the National Academy of Sciences, including Nobel laureates Norman Ramsey and Luis Alvarez, unanimously concluded that the acoustic evidence submitted to the HSCA was \"seriously flawed\", was recorded after the President was shot, and did not indicate any additional gunshots. Their conclusions were later published in the journal \"Science\".\n\nIn a 2001 article in \"Science & Justice\", D.B. Thomas wrote that the NAS investigation was itself flawed. He concluded that with a 96.3% certainty, there were at least two gunmen firing at President Kennedy and that at least one shot came from the grassy knoll. In 2005, Thomas's conclusions were rebutted in the same journal. Ralph Linsker and several members of the original NAS team reanalyzed the timings of the recordings and reaffirmed the earlier conclusion of the NAS report that the alleged shot sounds were recorded approximately one minute after the assassination. In a 2010 book, D.B. Thomas challenged the 2005 \"Science & Justice\" article and restated his conclusion that there actually were two gunmen.\n\nSome researchers have pointed to the large number of doctors and nurses at Parkland hospital who reported that a major portion of the back of the President's head may have been blown out, which strongly suggests that he was hit from the front. \n\nSome critics skeptical of the official \"single bullet theory\" have stated that the bullet's trajectory, which hit Kennedy above the right shoulder blade and passed through his neck (according to the autopsy), would have had to change course to pass through Connally's rib cage and fracture his wrist. Kennedy's death certificate, which was signed by his personal physician Dr. George Burkley, locates the bullet at \"about the level of the third thoracic vertebra\" — which some claim was not high enough to exit his throat. Furthermore, since the shooter was in a sixth floor window of the Book Depository building, the bullet traveled downward. The autopsy descriptive sheet displays a diagram of the President's body with the same low placement at the third thoracic vertebra. The holes in the back of his shirt and jacket are also claimed to support a wound too low to be consistent with the \"single bullet theory\".\n\nThere is a conflicting testimony regarding the autopsy performed on Kennedy's body, particularly during the examination on his brain and whether or not the photos submitted as evidence are the same as those taken during the examination. Douglas Horne, the Assassination Record Review Board's chief analyst for military records, said he was \"90 to 95% certain\" that the photographs in the National Archives are not really of Kennedy's brain. Supporting Horne was Dr. Gary Aguilar, who stated, \"According to Horne's findings, the second brain — which showed an exit wound in the front — allegedly replaced Kennedy's real brain — which revealed much greater damage to the rear, consistent with an exit wound and thus evidence of a shot from the front.\"\n\nPaul O'Connor, a laboratory technologist who assisted in the President's autopsy, claimed that the autopsy at Bethesda Naval Hospital was conducted in obedience to a high command and that nearly all the brain matter in Kennedy's skull was already missing before the autopsy at Bethesda hospital.\n\nIn his book \"JFK and the Unspeakable\", James Douglass cites autopsy doctor Pierre Finck's testimony at the trial of Clay Shaw as evidence that Finck was \"... a reluctant witness to the military control over the doctors' examination of the president's body\".\n\nA bone fragment found in Dealey Plaza by William Allen Harper the day following the assassination was reported by the HSCA's Forensic Pathology Panel to have been part of Kennedy's parietal bone. Some critics of the lone gunman theory, including James Douglass, David Lifton, and David Mantick, state that the fragment is actually a piece of occipital bone ejected from an exit wound in the back of Kennedy's head. They stated this finding is evidence of a cover-up as it proves that the skull radiographs obtained during the autopsy which do not show significant bone loss in the occipital area, are not authentic.\n\nThe Warren Commission examined the capabilities of the Carcano rifle and ammunition, as well as Oswald's military training and post-military experience, and determined that Oswald had the ability to fire three shots within a time span of 4.8 to 5.6 seconds. According to their report, an army specialist using Oswald's rifle was able to duplicate the feat and even improved on the time. The report also states that the Army Infantry Weapons Evaluation Branch test fired Oswald's rifle 47 times and found that it was \"quite accurate\", comparing it to the accuracy of an M14 rifle. Also contained in the Commission report is testimony by Marine Corps Major Eugene Anderson confirming that Oswald's military records show that he qualified as \"sharpshooter\" in 1956.\n\nAccording to official Marine Corps records, Oswald was tested in shooting in December 1956, scoring 212 (slightly above the minimum for qualification as a sharpshooter—the intermediate category), but in May 1959, he scored 191 (earning the lower designation of marksman). The highest marksmanship category in the Marine Corps is 'Expert' (220).\n\nDespite Oswald's confirmed marksmanship in the USMC, conspiracy theorists like Walt Brown and authors such as Richard H. Popkin contend that Oswald was a notoriously poor shot, that his rifle was inaccurate, and that no reconstruction of the event has ever been able to duplicate his ability to fire three shots within the time frame given by the Warren Commission.\n\nThe Warren Commission and other federal investigations ruled that Oswald either acted alone or conspired with others in the assassination, citing his actions in the years leading up to the event. Evidence of Oswald's pro-communist and radical tendencies include his defection to Russia, the New Orleans branch of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee he had organized, and also various public and private statements made by him espousing Marxism and other leftist ideologies. Others have argued that his behavior was in fact a carefully-planned ruse as part of an effort by U.S. intelligence agencies to infiltrate subversive groups and conduct counter-intelligence operations in communist countries, and that his role in the assassination was that of either an agent or an informant of the government trying to expose the plot behind the assassination.\n\nOswald himself claimed to be innocent, denying all charges and even declaring to reporters that he was \"just a patsy\". He also insisted that the photos of him holding a rifle had been faked, an assertion contradicted by statements made by his wife, Marina, and the analysis of photographic experts such as Lyndal L. Shaneyfelt of the FBI.\n\nOswald's role as FBI informant was investigated by Lee Rankin and others of the Warren Commission, but their findings were inconclusive. Several FBI employees had made statements indicating that Oswald was indeed a paid informant, but the commission was nonetheless unable to verify the veracity of those claims. FBI agent James P. Hosty reported that his office's interactions with Oswald were limited to dealing with his complaints about being harassed by the Bureau for being a communist sympathizer. In the weeks before the assassination, Oswald made a personal visit to the FBI's Dallas branch office with a hand-delivered letter which purportedly contained a threat of some sort but, controversially, Hosty destroyed the letter by order of J. Gordon Shanklin, his supervisor.\n\nSome researchers suggest that Oswald served as an active agent of the Central Intelligence Agency, often pointing to how he attempted to defect to Russia but was, however, able to return without difficulty (even receiving a repatriation loan from the State Department) as evidence of such. A former roommate of Oswald, James Botelho (who would later become a California judge) stated in an interview with Mark Lane that he believed Oswald was involved in an intelligence assignment in Russia, although Botelho did not mention any of those suspicions in his testimony to the Warren Commission years earlier. Oswald's mother, Marguerite, often insisted that her son was recruited by an agency of the U.S. Government and sent to Russia. New Orleans District Attorney (and later judge) Jim Garrison, who in 1967 brought Clay Shaw to trial for the assassination of President Kennedy also held the opinion that Oswald was most likely a CIA agent drawn into the plot to be used as a scapegoat, even going as far as to say that Oswald \"genuinely was probably a hero\". Senator Richard Schweiker, a member of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence remarked that \"everywhere you look with [Oswald], there're fingerprints of intelligence\". Richard Sprague, interim staff director and chief counsel to the U.S. House Select Committee on Assassinations, stated that if he \"had to do it over again\", he would have investigated the Kennedy assassination by probing Oswald's ties to the Central Intelligence Agency. In 1978, former CIA paymaster and accountant James Wilcott testified before the HSCA, stating that Lee Harvey Oswald was a \"known agent\" of the Central Intelligence Agency. Wilcott and his wife, Elsie (also a former employee of the CIA) later repeated those claims in a story by the \"San Francisco Chronicle\". Despite its official policy of neither confirming nor denying the status of agents, both the CIA itself and many officers working in the region at the time (including David Atlee Phillips) have \"unofficially\" dismissed the plausibility of any possible ties to Oswald and the agency. Robert Blakey, staff director and chief counsel for the U.S. House Select Committee on Assassinations, supported that assessment in his conclusions as well.\n\nIn addition to Oswald, Jerome Kroth has named 26 people as \"Possible Assassins In Dealey Plaza\". They include: Orlando Bosch, James Files, Desmond Fitzgerald, Charles Harrelson, Gerry Hemming, Chauncey Holt, Howard Hunt, Charles Nicoletti, Charles Rogers, Johnny Roselli, Lucien Sarti, and Frank Sturgis.\n\nVincent Bugliosi provides a \"partial list of assassins ... whom one or more conspiracy theorists have actually named and identified as having fired a weapon at Kennedy\" in his book \"Reclaiming History\". He also mentions the three tramps, men photographed by several Dallas-area newspapers under police escort near the Texas School Book Depository shortly after the assassination. Since the mid-1960s, various allegations have been made about the identities of the men and their involvement in a conspiracy to kill Kennedy. Records released by the Dallas Police Department in 1989 identified the men as Gus Abrams, Harold Doyle, and John Gedney.\n\nThe theory that former CIA agent and Watergate burglar E. Howard Hunt was a participant in the assassination of Kennedy garnered much publicity from 1978 to 2000. In 1981, he won a libel judgment against Liberty Lobby's paper \"The Spotlight\", which in 1978 printed an allegation by Victor Marchetti suggesting Hunt's involvement in a conspiracy; the libel award was thrown out on appeal and the newspaper was successfully defended by Mark Lane in a second trial. Former KGB archivist Vasili Mitrokhin indicated in 1999 that Hunt was made part of a fabricated conspiracy theory disseminated by a Soviet \"active measures\" program designed to discredit the CIA and the United States. After his death in 2007, an audio-taped \"deathbed confession\" in which Hunt claimed first-hand knowledge of a conspiracy, as a co-conspirator, was released by his son Saint John Hunt. In the confession, Hunt claimed to have been a \"bench warmer\" in Dallas during the events, and he named several high-level CIA operatives as those who likely carried out the logistics of the assassination. Hunt named Vice President Lyndon Johnson as the most likely figure behind the main impetus of the conspiracy. The authenticity of the confession was met with some skepticism.\n\nDallas Police Officer J. D. Tippit has been named in some conspiracy theories as a renegade CIA operative sent to silence Oswald and as the \"badge man\" assassin on the grassy knoll. According to some Warren Commission critics, Oswald was set up to be killed by Tippit, but Tippit was killed by Oswald before he could carry out his assignment. Other critics doubt that Tippit was killed by Oswald and assert he was shot by other conspirators. (See section below.) Some critics have alleged that Tippit was associated with organized crime or right-wing politics.\n\nAccording to the Warren Commission, the publication of a full-page, paid advertisement critical of Kennedy in the November 22, 1963, \"Dallas Morning News\", which was signed by \"The American Fact-Finding Committee\" and noted Bernard Weissman as its chairman, was investigated to determine whether any members of the group claiming responsibility for it were connected to Oswald or to the assassination. The Commission stated that \"The American Fact-Finding Committee\" was a fictitious sponsoring organization and that there was no evidence linking the four men responsible for the genesis of the ad with either Oswald or Ruby, or to a conspiracy to assassinate Kennedy.\n\nRelated to the advertisement, Mark Lane testified during the Warren Commission's hearings that an informant whom he refused to name told him that Weismann had met with Tippit and Ruby eight days before the assassination at Ruby's Carousel Club. The Commission reported that they \"found no evidence that such a meeting took place anywhere at any time\" and that there was no \"credible evidence that any of the three men knew each other\".\n\nLane later stated that he initially learned of the meeting through reporter Thayer Waldo of the \"Fort Worth Star-Telegram\". According to Lane, a \"prominent Dallas figure\" who frequented Ruby's Carousel Club told Waldo, and later Lane, that he observed the meeting of the three men at the club. He said, \"I had promised the man he would not be involved; he was a leading Dallas citizen; he was married, and the stripper he was going with had become pregnant.\" Despite not having revealed to the Warren Commission that Waldo was his original source of the alleged meeting, Lane disputed their findings and complained that they failed to ask Waldo about it. According to Hugh Aynesworth, the source of the allegation whose identity Lane promised not to reveal was Carroll Jarnagin, a Dallas attorney who had also claimed to have overheard a meeting between Oswald and Ruby. Aynesworth wrote: \"Several people in Dallas were well aware of Jarnagin's tale, and that he later admitted making it all up.\"\n\nThe Warren Commission concluded that Oswald \"killed Dallas Police Officer J. D. Tippit in an apparent attempt to escape.\" The evidence that formed the basis for this conclusion was: \"(1) two eyewitnesses who heard the shots and saw the shooting of Dallas Police Patrolman J. D. Tippit and seven eyewitnesses who saw the flight of the gunman with revolver in hand positively identified Lee Harvey Oswald as the man they saw fire the shots or flee from the scene, (2) the cartridge cases found near the scene of the shooting were fired from the revolver in the possession of Oswald at the time of his arrest, to the exclusion of all other weapons, (3) the revolver in Oswald's possession at the time of his arrest was purchased by and belonged to Oswald, and (4) Oswald's jacket was found along the path of flight taken by the gunman as he fled from the scene of the killing.\"\n\nSome researchers have alleged that the murder of Officer Tippit was part of a conspiracy to kill President Kennedy. Jim Marrs hypothesized that \"the slaying of Officer J. D. Tippit may have played some part in [a] scheme to have Oswald killed, perhaps to eliminate co-conspirator Tippit or simply to anger Dallas police and cause itchy trigger fingers.\" Researcher James Douglass said that \"... the killing of [Tippit] helped motivate the Dallas police to kill an armed Oswald in the Texas Theater, which would have disposed of the scapegoat before he could protest his being framed.\" Harold Weisberg offered a simpler explanation: \"Immediately, the [flimsy] police case [against Oswald] required a willingness to believe. This was proved by affixing to Oswald the opprobrious epithet of 'cop-killer.'\" Jim Garrison alleged that evidence was altered to frame Oswald, stating: \"If Oswald was innocent of the Tippit murder the foundation of the government's case against him collapsed.\"\n\nSome critics doubt that Tippit was killed by Oswald and assert he was shot by other conspirators. They allege discrepancies in witness testimony and physical evidence that they think call into question the Commission's conclusions regarding the murder of Tippit. According to Jim Marrs, Oswald's guilt in the assassination of Kennedy is placed in question by the presence of \"a growing body of evidence to suggest that [he] did not kill Tippit\". Others say that multiple men were directly involved in Tippit's killing. Conspiracy researcher Kenn Thomas has alleged that the Warren Commission omitted testimony and evidence that two men shot Tippit and that one left the scene in a car.\n\nWilliam Alexander—the Dallas assistant district attorney who recommended that Oswald be charged with the Kennedy and Tippit murders—later became skeptical of the Warren Commission's version of the Tippit murder. He stated that the Commission's conclusions on Oswald's movements \"don't add up\", and that \"certainly [Oswald] may have had accomplices.\"\n\nAccording to Brian McKenna's review of Henry Hurt's book, \"Reasonable Doubt\", Hurt reported that \"Tippit may have been killed because he impregnated the wife of another man\" and that Dallas police officers lied and altered evidence to set up Oswald to save Tippit's reputation.\n\nThe Warren Commission identified Helen Markham and Domingo Benavides as two witnesses who actually saw the shooting. Conspiracy theorist Richard Belzer criticized the Commission for, in his description, \"relying\" on the testimony of Markham whom he described as \"imaginative\". Jim Marrs also took issue with Markham's testimony, stating that her \"credibility ... was strained to the breaking point\". Joseph Ball, senior counsel to the Commission, referred to Markham's testimony as \"full of mistakes\", characterizing her as an \"utter screwball\". The Warren Commission addressed concerns regarding Markham's reliability as a witness and concluded: \"However, even in the absence of Mrs. Markham's testimony, there is ample evidence to identify Oswald as the killer of Tippit.\"\n\nDomingo Benavides initially said that he did not think he could identify Tippit's assailant and was never asked to view a police lineup, even though he was the person closest to the killing. Benavides later testified that the killer resembled pictures he had seen of Oswald. Other witnesses were taken to police lineups. However, critics have questioned these lineups as they consisted of people who looked very different from Oswald.\n\nAdditionally, witnesses who did not appear before the Commission identified an assailant who was not Oswald. Acquilla Clemons said she saw two men near Tippit's car just before the shooting. She said that after the shooting, she ran outside of her house and saw a man with a gun whom she described as \"kind of heavy\". She said he waved to the second man, urging him to \"go on\". Frank Wright said he emerged from his home and observed the scene seconds after the shooting. He described a man standing by Tippit's body who had on a long coat and said the man ran to a parked car and drove away.\n\nCritics have questioned whether the cartridge cases recovered from the scene were the same as those that were subsequently entered into evidence. Two of the cases were recovered by witness Domingo Benavides and turned over to police officer J. M. Poe. Poe told the FBI that he marked the shells with his own initials, \"J.M.P.\" to identify them. Sergeant Gerald Hill later testified to the Warren Commission that it was he who had ordered police officer Poe to mark the shells. However, Poe's initials were not found on the shells produced by the FBI six months later. Testifying before the Warren Commission, Poe said that although he recalled marking the cases, he \"couldn't swear to it\". The identification of the cases at the crime scene raises more questions. Sergeant Gerald Hill examined one of the shells and radioed the police dispatcher, saying: \"The shell at the scene indicates that the suspect is armed with an automatic .38 rather than a pistol.\" However, Oswald was reportedly arrested carrying a \"non\"-automatic .38 Special revolver.\n\nThe Warren Commission investigated Oswald's movements between the time of the assassination and the shooting of Tippit, to ascertain whether Oswald might have had an accomplice who helped him flee the Book Depository. The Commission concluded \"... through the testimony of seven witnesses [that] Oswald was always alone.\" According to their final report, Oswald was seen by his housekeeper leaving his rooming house shortly after 1:00 pm and had enough time to travel nine-tenths of a mile (1.4 km) to the scene where Tippit was killed at 1:16 pm.\n\nSome Warren Commission critics believe that Oswald did not have enough time to get from his house to the scene where Tippit was killed. The Commission's own test and estimation of Oswald's walking speed demonstrated that one of the longer routes to the Tippit shooting scene took 17 minutes and 45 seconds to walk. No witness ever surfaced who saw Oswald walk from his rooming house to the murder scene.\n\nConspiracy researcher Robert Groden believes that Tippit's murder may have occurred earlier than the time given in the Warren Report. He notes that the Commission established the time of the shooting as 1:16 pm from police tapes that logged Domingo Benavides's use of the radio in Tippit's car. However, Benavides testified that he did not approach the car until \"a few minutes\" after the shooting, because he was afraid that the gunman might return. He was assisted in using the radio by witness T. F. Bowley who testified to Dallas police that at the time he arrived to help, \"several people were at the scene\", and that the time was 1:10 pm.\n\nWitness Helen Markham stated in her affidavit to the Dallas Sheriff's department that Tippit was killed at \"approximately 1:06 pm.\" She later affirmed the time in testimony before the Warren Commission, saying: \"I wouldn't be afraid to bet it wasn't 6 or 7 minutes after 1.\" She initially told the FBI that the shooting occurred \"possibly around 1:30 pm.\" In an unpublished manuscript titled \"When They Kill a President\", Deputy Sheriff Roger Craig stated that when he heard the news that Tippit had been shot, he noted that the time was 1:06 pm. However, in a later statement to the press, Craig seemed confused about the time of the shooting.\n\nWarren \"Butch\" Burroughs, who ran the concession stand at the Texas Theater where Oswald was arrested, said that Oswald came into the theater between 1:00 and 1:07 pm; he also claimed he sold Oswald popcorn at 1:15 p.m.—the \"official\" time of Officer Tippit's murder. Julia Postal told the Warren Commission that Burroughs initially told her the same thing although he later denied this. A theatre patron, Jack Davis, also corroborated Burroughs's time, claiming he observed Oswald in the theatre prior to 1:20 pm.\n\nSome conspiracy theories surrounding the Kennedy assassination have focused on witnesses to the assassination who have not been identified, or who have not identified themselves, despite the media attention that the Kennedy assassination has received.\n\nThe so-called \"umbrella man\" was one of the closest bystanders to the president when he was first struck by a bullet. The \"umbrella man\" has become the subject of conspiracy theories after footage of the assassination showed him holding an open umbrella as the Kennedy motorcade passed, despite the fact that it was not raining at the time. One conspiracy theory, proposed by assassination researcher Robert Cutler, suggests that a dart with a paralyzing agent could have been fired from the umbrella, disabling Kennedy and making him a \"sitting duck\" for an assassination. (In 1975, CIA weapons developer Charles Senseney told the Senate Intelligence Committee that such an umbrella weapon was in the hands of the CIA in 1963.) A more prevalent conspiracy theory holds that the umbrella could have been used to provide visual signals to hidden gunmen.\n\nIn 1978, Louie Steven Witt came forward and identified himself as the \"umbrella man\". Testifying before the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations, Witt stated he brought the umbrella to heckle Kennedy and protest the appeasement policies of the president's father, Joseph Kennedy. He added: \"I think if the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" had a category for people who were at the wrong place at the wrong time, doing the wrong thing, I would be No. 1 in that position, without even a close runner-up.\" Some researchers have noted a number of inconsistencies with Witt's story, however, and do not believe him to be the true \"umbrella man\".\n\nThe \"umbrella man\" is the subject of a 2011 documentary short by Errol Morris, for \"The New York Times\".\n\nAn unidentified individual who is referred to by some conspiracy theorists as the \"dark complected man\" can be seen in several photographs, taken seconds after the assassination, sitting on the sidewalk next to the \"umbrella man\" on the north side of Elm Street. Louie Steven Witt, who identified himself as the \"umbrella man\", said he was unable to identify the other individual, whose dark complexion has led some conspiracy theorists to speculate Cuban government involvement, or Cuban exile involvement, in the assassination of Kennedy.\n\nSome conspiracy theories focus on individuals that it is claimed can be seen in photographs of the assassination. Both \"badge man\" and \"black dog man\" have been suggested as possible assassins of President Kennedy.\n\n\"Badge man\" and \"tin hat man\" are figures on the grassy knoll who it is alleged can be seen in the Mary Moorman photo, taken approximately one-sixth of a second after President Kennedy was struck with the fatal head wound. The figures were first discovered by researchers Jack White and Gary Mack and are discussed in a 1988 documentary called \"The Men Who Killed Kennedy\", where it is alleged a third figure can also be seen on the grassy knoll, possibly the eyewitness Gordon Arnold. The \"badge man\" figure—so called as he appears to be wearing a uniform similar to that worn by a policeman, with a badge prominent—helped fuel conspiracy theories linking Dallas Police officers, or someone impersonating a police officer, to the assassination.\n\nAnother \"figure\" that has been the subject of conspiracy is the so-called \"black dog man\" figure who can be seen at the corner of a retaining wall in the Willis and Betzner photo of the assassination. In an interview, Marilyn Sitzman told Josiah Thompson that she saw a young black couple who were eating lunch and drinking Cokes on a bench behind the retaining wall and, therefore, it is possible that the \"black dog man\" figure is actually the black woman and her child. If so, the woman has never come forward to identify herself.\n\nIn \"The Killing of A President\", Robert Groden argues that the \"black dog man\" figure can be seen in a pyracantha bush in frame 413 of the Zapruder film. The United States House Select Committee on Assassinations concluded that a head of an individual could be seen but that this individual was situated in front of, rather than behind the bushes. Bill Miller argues that this individual is actually the eyewitness Emmett Hudson.\n\nConspiracy theorists consider four or five groups, alone or in combination, to be the primary suspects in the assassination of Kennedy: the CIA, the military-industrial complex, organized crime, the government of Cuba, and Cuban exiles. Other domestic individuals, groups, or organizations implicated in various conspiracy theories include Lyndon Johnson, George H. W. Bush, Sam Giancana, J. Edgar Hoover, Earl Warren, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the United States Secret Service, the John Birch Society, and far-right wealthy Texans. Some other alleged foreign conspirators include Fidel Castro, the KGB and Nikita Khrushchev, Aristotle Onassis, the government of South Vietnam, and international drug lords, including a French heroin syndicate.\n\nSoon after the assassination of President Kennedy, Oswald's activities in New Orleans, Louisiana, during the spring and summer of 1963, came under scrutiny. Three days after the assassination, on November 25, 1963, New Orleans attorney Dean Andrews told the FBI that he received a telephone call from a man named Clay Bertrand, on the day of the assassination, asking him to defend Oswald. Andrews would later repeat this claim in testimony to the Warren Commission.\n\nAlso, in late November 1963, an employee of New Orleans private investigator Guy Banister named Jack Martin began making accusations that fellow Banister employee David Ferrie was involved in the JFK assassination. Martin told police that Ferrie \"was supposed to have been the getaway pilot in the assassination.\" He said that Ferrie had outlined plans to kill Kennedy and that Ferrie might have taught Oswald how to use a rifle with a telescopic sight. Martin claimed that Ferrie had known Oswald from their days in the New Orleans Civil Air Patrol, and that he had seen a photograph, at Ferrie's home, of Oswald in a Civil Air Patrol group. Ferrie denied any association with Oswald.\n\nIt was later discovered that Ferrie had attended Civil Air Patrol meetings in New Orleans in the 1950s that were also attended by a teenage Lee Harvey Oswald. In 1993, the PBS television program \"Frontline\" obtained a photograph taken in 1955 (eight years before the assassination) showing Oswald and Ferrie at a Civil Air Patrol cookout with other C.A.P. cadets. Whether Oswald's and Ferrie's association in the Civil Air Patrol in 1955 is relevant to their later possible association in 1963 is a subject of debate.\n\nAccording to several witnesses, in 1963, both Ferrie and Banister were working for lawyer G. Wray Gill on behalf of Gill's client, New Orleans Mafia boss Carlos Marcello, in an attempt to block Marcello's deportation to Guatemala. On the afternoon of November 22, 1963—the day John F. Kennedy was assassinated and the day Marcello was acquitted in his deportation case—New Orleans private investigator Guy Banister and his employee, Jack Martin, were drinking together at a local bar. On their return to Banister's office, the two men got into a heated argument. According to Martin, Banister said something to which Martin replied, \"What are you going to do—kill me like you all did Kennedy?\". Banister drew his .357 magnum revolver and pistol-whipped Martin several times. Martin, badly injured, went by ambulance to Charity Hospital.\n\nEarlier, in the spring of 1963, Oswald had written to the New York City headquarters of the pro-Castro Fair Play for Cuba Committee, proposing to rent \"a small office at my own expense for the purpose of forming a FPCC branch here in New Orleans\". As the sole member of the New Orleans chapter of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, Oswald ordered 1,000 leaflets with the heading, \"Hands Off Cuba\" from a local printer. On August 16, 1963, Oswald passed out Fair Play for Cuba leaflets in front of the International Trade Mart in New Orleans.\n\nOne of Oswald's leaflets had the address \"544 Camp Street\" hand-stamped on it, apparently by Oswald himself. The address was in the \"Newman Building\", which from October 1961 to February 1962 housed the Cuban Revolutionary Council, a militant anti-Castro group. Around the corner but located in the same building, with a different entrance, was the address 531 Lafayette Street—the address of \"Guy Banister Associates\", the private detective agency run by Guy Banister. Banister's office was involved in anti-Castro and private investigative activities in the New Orleans area. (A CIA file indicated that in September 1960, the CIA had considered \"using Guy Banister Associates for the collection of foreign intelligence, but ultimately decided against it\".)\n\nIn the late 1970s, the House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) investigated the possible relationship of Oswald to Banister's office. While the committee was unable to interview Guy Banister (who died in 1964), the committee did interview his brother Ross Banister. Ross \"told the committee that his brother had mentioned seeing Oswald hand out Fair Play for Cuba literature on one occasion. Ross theorized that Oswald had used the 544 Camp Street address on his literature to embarrass Guy.\"\n\nGuy Banister's secretary, Delphine Roberts, would later tell author Anthony Summers that she saw Oswald at Banister's office, and that he filled out one of Banister's \"agent\" application forms. She said, \"Oswald came back a number of times. He seemed to be on familiar terms with Banister and with the office.\" The House Select Committee on Assassinations investigated Roberts's claims and said that \"because of contradictions in Roberts' statements to the committee and lack of independent corroboration of many of her statements, the reliability of her statements could not be determined.\"\n\nIn 1966, New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison began an investigation into the assassination of President Kennedy. Garrison's investigation led him to conclude that a group of right-wing extremists, including David Ferrie and Guy Banister, were involved with elements of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in a conspiracy to kill Kennedy. Garrison would later claim that the motive for the assassination was anger over Kennedy's attempts to obtain a peace settlement in both Cuba and Vietnam. Garrison also came to believe that New Orleans businessman Clay Shaw was part of the conspiracy and that Clay Shaw used the pseudonym \"Clay Bertrand\". Garrison further believed that Shaw, Banister, and Ferrie conspired to set up Oswald as a patsy in the JFK assassination. On March 1, 1967, Garrison arrested and charged Shaw with conspiring to assassinate President Kennedy. On January 29, 1969, Clay Shaw was brought to trial on these charges, and the jury found him not guilty.\n\nIn 2003, Judyth Vary Baker—whose employment records show that she worked at the Reily Coffee Company in New Orleans at the same time Oswald did—appeared in an episode of the television documentary series, \"The Men Who Killed Kennedy\". Baker claimed that in 1963 she was recruited by Dr. Canute Michaelson to work with Dr. Alton Ochsner and Dr. Mary Sherman on a clandestine CIA project to develop a biological weapon that could be used to assassinate Fidel Castro. According to Baker, she and Oswald were hired by Reily in the spring of 1963 as a \"cover\" for the operation. Baker further claimed that she and Oswald began an affair, and that later Oswald told her about Merida, Mexico—a city where he suggested they might begin their lives over again. According to John McAdams, Baker presents a \"classic case of pushing the limits of plausibility too far\". Others on both sides of the research community have widely dismissed her claims. However, other researchers, including James Fetzer, have concluded that Baker's claims are credible.\n\nAddressing speculation that Oswald was a CIA agent or had some relationship with the Agency, the Warren Commission stated in 1964 that their investigation \"revealed no evidence that Oswald was ever employed [by the] CIA in any capacity.\" The House Select Committee on Assassinations reported similarly in 1979 that \"[t]here was no indication in Oswald's CIA file that he had ever had contact with the Agency\" and concluded that the CIA was not involved in the assassination of Kennedy.\n\nGaeton Fonzi, an investigator for the House Select Committee on Assassinations, wrote that investigators were pressured not to look into the relationship between Lee Harvey Oswald and the CIA. He stated that CIA agent David Atlee Phillips, using the pseudonym \"Maurice Bishop\", was involved with Oswald prior to the Kennedy assassination in connection with anti-Castro Cuban groups.\n\nIn 1995, former U.S. Army Intelligence officer and National Security Agency executive assistant John M. Newman published evidence that both the CIA and FBI deliberately tampered with their files on Lee Harvey Oswald both before and after the assassination. Furthermore, he found that both agencies withheld information that might have alerted authorities in Dallas that Oswald posed a potential threat to the President. Subsequently, Newman expressed a belief that CIA chief of counter-intelligence James Angleton was probably the key figure in the assassination. According to Newman, only Angleton \"had the access, the authority, and the diabolically ingenious mind to manage this sophisticated plot.\" However, Newman surmised that the cover operation was not under James Angleton, but under Allen Dulles (the former CIA director, and later Warren Commission member, who had been dismissed by Kennedy after the failed Bay of Pigs invasion).\n\nIn 1977, the FBI released 40,000 files pertaining to the assassination of Kennedy, including an April 3, 1967 memorandum from Deputy Director Cartha DeLoach to Associate Director Clyde Tolson that was written less than a month after President Johnson learned from J. Edgar Hoover about CIA plots to kill Fidel Castro. The memorandum reads: \"Marvin Watson [adviser to President Johnson] called me late last night and stated that the president had told him, in an off moment, that he was now convinced that there was a plot in connection with the [JFK] assassination. Watson stated the president felt that [the] CIA had had something to do with plot.\" Later, Cartha DeLoach testified to the Church Committee that he \"felt this to be sheer speculation\".\n\nOne conspiracy theory suggests that a secret or shadow government including wealthy industrialists and right-wing politicians ordered the assassination of Kennedy. Peter Dale Scott has indicated that Kennedy's death allowed for policy reversals desired by the secret government to escalate the United States' military involvement in Vietnam.\n\nIn the farewell speech given by U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower before he left office on January 17, 1961, warned the nation about the power of the military establishment and the arms industry. \"In the councils of government, we must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the military-industrial complex. The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists, and will persist.\" Some conspiracy theorists have argued that Kennedy planned to end the involvement of the United States in Vietnam, and was therefore targeted by those who had an interest in sustained military conflict, including the Pentagon and defense contractors.\n\nFormer Texas Senator Ralph Yarborough in 1991 stated: \"Had Kennedy lived, I think we would have had no Vietnam War, with all of its traumatic and divisive influences in America. I think we would have escaped that.\"\n\nAccording to author James Douglass, Kennedy was assassinated because he was turning away from the Cold War and seeking a negotiated peace with the Soviet Union. Douglass argued that this \"was not the kind of leadership the CIA, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the military-industrial complex wanted in the White House.\"\n\nOliver Stone's film, \"JFK\", explored the possibility that Kennedy was killed by a conspiracy involving the military-industrial complex. L. Fletcher Prouty, Chief of Special Operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Kennedy, and the person who inspired the character \"Mr. X\" in Stone's film, wrote that Kennedy's assassination was actually a coup d'état.\n\nThe House Select Committee on Assassinations reported that it investigated \"alleged Secret Service complicity in the assassination\" and concluded that the Secret Service was not involved. However, the HSCA declared that \"the Secret Service was deficient in the performance of its duties.\" Among its findings, the HSCA noted: (1) that President Kennedy had not received adequate protection in Dallas, (2) that the Secret Service possessed information that was not properly analyzed, investigated, or used by the Secret Service in connection with the President's trip to Dallas, and (3) that the Secret Service agents in the motorcade were inadequately prepared to protect the President from a sniper. The HSCA specifically noted:\n\nNo actions were taken by the agent in the right front seat of the presidential limousine Roy Kellerman to cover the President with his body, although it would have been consistent with Secret Service procedure for him to have done so. The primary function of the agent was to remain at all times in close proximity to the President in the event of such emergencies.\n\nSome argue that the lack of Secret Service protection occurred because Kennedy himself had asked that the Secret Service make itself discreet during the Dallas visit. However, Vince Palamara, who interviewed several Secret Service agents assigned to the Kennedy detail, disputes this. Palamara reports that Secret Service driver Sam Kinney told him that requests—such as removing the bubble top from the limousine in Dallas, not having agents positioned beside the limousine's rear bumper, and reducing the number of Dallas police motorcycle outriders near the limousine's rear bumper—were not made by Kennedy.\n\nIn \"The Echo from Dealey Plaza\", Abraham Bolden—the first African American on the White House Secret Service detail—claimed to have overheard agents say that they would not protect Kennedy from would-be assassins.\n\nColin McLaren, a former Australian police detective sergeant, was inspired by Bonar Menninger's \"Mortal Error\", to approach the assassination of Kennedy as a cold case investigation, and treating Howard Donahue's expert testimony as that of just one witness of many. After more than four years of research, he published a book titled \"JFK: The Smoking Gun\", which was accompanied by a documentary. As an investigator, McLaren focuses on the existing witness testimony, including testimony from people present at Kennedy's autopsy rather than on his own ballistics or similar tests. Rather than just dismiss the ballistics tests carried out for the Warren Commission as inexpert, their testimony to the commission, including their qualifications, is quoted and critiqued, and also any cross-examination. He quotes many more witnesses than Donahue or Menninger as having believed that shots were fired at ground level, and observes a pattern of concealment of evidence. His conclusion, like those of Reppert and of Menninger, is that Donahue is correct in both the broad theory and the details.\n\nQuestions regarding the forthrightness of the Secret Service increased in the 1990s when the Assassination Records Review Board—which was created when Congress passed the JFK Records Act—requested access to Secret Service records. The Review Board was told by the Secret Service that in January 1995, in violation of the JFK Records Act, the Secret Service destroyed protective survey reports that covered JFK's trips from September 24 through November 8, 1963.\n\nThe House Select Committee on Assassinations wrote: \"The committee believes, on the basis of the evidence available to it, that anti-Castro Cuban groups, as groups, were not involved in the assassination of President Kennedy, but that the available evidence does not preclude the possibility that individual members may have been involved\".\n\nWith the 1959 Cuban Revolution that brought Fidel Castro to power, many Cubans left Cuba to live in the United States. Many of these exiles hoped to overthrow Castro and return to Cuba. Their hopes were dashed with the failed Bay of Pigs Invasion in 1961, and many blamed President Kennedy for the failure.\n\nThe House Select Committee on Assassinations concluded that some militant Cuban exiles might have participated in Kennedy's murder. These exiles worked closely with CIA operatives in violent activities against Castro's Cuba. In 1979, the committee reported:\n\nPresident Kennedy's popularity among the Cuban exiles had plunged deeply by 1963. Their bitterness is illustrated in a tape recording of a meeting of anti-Castro Cubans and right-wing Americans in the Dallas suburb of Farmer's Branch on October 1, 1963.\n\nAuthor Joan Didion explored the Miami anti-Castro Cuban theory in her 1987 book \"Miami\". She discussed Marita Lorenz's testimony regarding Guillermo Novo, a Cuban exile who was involved in shooting a bazooka at the U.N. building from the East River during a speech by Che Guevara. Allegedly, Novo was affiliated with Lee Harvey Oswald and Frank Sturgis and carried weapons with them to a hotel in Dallas just prior to the assassination. These claims, though put forth to the House Assassinations Committee by Lorenz, have never been substantiated. Don DeLillo dramatized the Cuban theory in his 1988 novel \"Libra\".\n\nThe House Select Committee on Assassinations wrote: \"The committee believes, on the basis of the evidence available to it, that the national syndicate of organized crime, as a group, was not involved in the assassination of President Kennedy, but that the available evidence does not preclude the possibility that individual members may have been involved\". Robert Blakey, who was chief counsel for the House Select Committee on Assassinations, would later conclude in his book, \"The Plot to Kill the President\", that New Orleans Mafia boss Carlos Marcello was likely part of a Mafia conspiracy behind the assassination, and that the Mafia had the means and the opportunity required to carry it out.\n\nGovernment documents have revealed that some members of the Mafia worked with the Central Intelligence Agency on assassination attempts against Cuban leader Fidel Castro. In the summer of 1960, the CIA recruited ex-FBI agent Robert Maheu to approach the West Coast representative of the Chicago mob, Johnny Roselli. When Maheu contacted Roselli, Maheu hid the fact that he was sent by the CIA, instead portraying himself as an advocate for international corporations. He offered to pay $150,000 to have Castro killed, but Roselli declined any pay. Roselli introduced Maheu to two men he referred to as \"Sam Gold\" and \"Joe\". \"Sam Gold\" was Sam Giancana; \"Joe\" was Santo Trafficante, Jr., the Tampa, Florida, boss and one of the most powerful mobsters in pre-revolution Cuba. Glenn Kessler of \"The Washington Post\" explained: \"After Fidel Castro led a revolution that toppled a friendly government in 1959, the CIA was desperate to eliminate him. So the agency sought out a partner equally worried about Castro—the Mafia, which had lucrative investments in Cuban casinos.\"\n\nIn his memoir, \"Bound by Honor\", Bill Bonanno, son of New York Mafia boss Joseph Bonanno, disclosed that several Mafia families had long-standing ties with the anti-Castro Cubans through the Havana casinos operated by the Mafia before the Cuban Revolution. Many Cuban exiles and Mafia bosses disliked President Kennedy, blaming him for the failed Bay of Pigs Invasion. They also disliked his brother, then Attorney General Robert Kennedy, who had conducted an unprecedented legal assault on organized crime. This was especially provocative because several Mafia \"families\" had allegedly worked with JFK's father, Joseph Kennedy, to get JFK elected. Both the Mafia and the anti-Castro Cubans were experts in assassination—the Cubans having been trained by the CIA. Bonanno reported that he recognized the high degree of involvement of other Mafia families when Jack Ruby killed Oswald, since Bonanno was aware that Ruby was an associate of Chicago mobster Sam Giancana.\n\nSome conspiracy researchers have alleged a plot involving elements of the Mafia, the CIA, and the anti-Castro Cubans, including Anthony Summers, who stated: \"Sometimes people sort of glaze over about the notion that the Mafia and U.S. intelligence and the anti-Castro activists were involved together in the assassination of President Kennedy. In fact, there's no contradiction there. Those three groups were all in bed together at the time and had been for several years in the fight to topple Fidel Castro.\" News reporter Ruben Castaneda wrote in 2012: \"Based on the evidence, it is likely that JFK was killed by a coalition of anti-Castro Cubans, the Mob, and elements of the CIA.\" In his book, \"They Killed Our President\", former Minnesota governor Jesse Ventura concluded: \"John F. Kennedy was murdered by a conspiracy involving disgruntled CIA agents, anti-Castro Cubans, and members of the Mafia, all of whom were extremely angry at what they viewed as Kennedy's appeasement policies toward Communist Cuba and the Soviet Union.\"\n\nCarlos Marcello allegedly threatened to assassinate the President to short-circuit his younger brother, Attorney General Robert Kennedy, who was leading the administration's anti-Mafia crusade. Information released in 2006 by the FBI has led some to conclude that Carlos Marcello confessed to his cellmate in Texas, Jack Van Lanningham, an FBI informant, using a transistor radio that was bugged by the FBI, to having organized Kennedy's assassination, and that the FBI covered up this information that it had in its possession.\n\nIn his book, \"Contract on America\", David Scheim provided evidence that Mafia leaders Carlos Marcello, Santo Trafficante, Jr., and Jimmy Hoffa ordered the assassination of President Kennedy. Scheim cited in particular a 25-fold increase in the number of out-of-state telephone calls from Jack Ruby to associates of these crime bosses in the months before the assassination, and to an attempted confession by Jack Ruby while in prison. David E. Kaiser has also suggested mob involvement in his book, \"The Road to Dallas\".\n\nInvestigative reporter Jack Anderson concluded that Fidel Castro worked with organized crime figures to arrange the JFK assassination. In his book \"Peace, War, and Politics\", Anderson claimed that Mafia member Johnny Roselli gave him extensive details of the plot. Anderson said that although he was never able to independently confirm Roselli's entire story, many of Roselli's details checked out. Anderson said that Oswald may have played a role in the assassination, but that more than one gunman was involved. Johnny Roselli, as previously noted, had worked with the CIA on assassination attempts against Castro.\n\nThe History Channel program \"The Men Who Killed Kennedy\" presented additional claims of organized crime involvement. Christian David was a Corsican Mafia member interviewed in prison. He said that he was offered the assassination contract on President Kennedy, but that he did not accept it. However, he said that he knew the men who did accept the contract. According to David, there were three shooters. He provided the name of one—Lucien Sarti. David said that since the other two shooters were still alive, it would break a code of conduct for him to identify them. When asked what the shooters were wearing, David noted their \"modus operandi\" was to dress in costumes such as official uniforms. Much of Christian David's testimony was confirmed by former Corsican member Michelle Nicole, who was part of the DEA witness protection program.\n\nThe book \"Ultimate Sacrifice\", by Lamar Waldron and Thom Hartmann, attempted to synthesize these theories with new evidence. The authors argued that government officials felt obliged to help the assassins cover up the truth because the assassination conspiracy had direct ties to American government plots to assassinate Castro. Outraged at Robert Kennedy's attack on organized crime, mob leaders had President Kennedy killed to remove Robert from power. A government investigation of the plot was thwarted, the authors allege, because it would have revealed embarrassing evidence of American government involvement with organized crime in plots to kill Castro.\n\nA 2003 Gallup poll indicated that nearly 20% of Americans suspected Lyndon B. Johnson of being involved in the assassination of Kennedy. Critics of the Warren Commission have accused Johnson of plotting the assassination because he \"disliked\" the Kennedys and feared that he would be dropped from the Democratic ticket for the 1964 election.\n\nAccording to journalist Max Holland, the first published allegation that Johnson perpetrated the assassination of Kennedy appeared in Penn Jones, Jr.'s book \"Forgive My Grief\", self-published in May 1966. In the book, Jones provided excerpts of a letter purported to have been authored by Jack Ruby charging LBJ with the murder of the President. With his 1968 book, \"The Dark Side of Lyndon Baines Johnson\", Joachim Joesten is credited by Bugliosi as being the first conspiracy author to accuse Johnson of having a role in the assassination. According to Joesten, Johnson \"played the leading part\" in a conspiracy that involved \"the Dallas oligarchy and ... local branches of the CIA, the FBI, and the Secret Service\". Others who have indicated there was complicity on the part of Johnson include Jim Marrs, Ralph D. Thomas, J. Gary Shaw, Larry Harris, Walt Brown, Noel Twyman, Barr McClellan, Craig Zirbel, Phillip F. Nelson, and Madeleine Brown.\n\nThe fact that JFK was seriously considering dropping Johnson from the ticket in favor of NC Governor Terry Sanford should Kennedy run in 1964 has been cited as a possible motive for Johnson's complicity in the assassination. In 1968, Kennedy's personal secretary Evelyn Lincoln wrote in her book, \"Kennedy and Johnson\" that President Kennedy had told her that Lyndon B. Johnson would be replaced as Vice President of the United States. That conversation took place on November 19, 1963, just three days before the assassination of President Kennedy and was recorded that evening in her diary and reads as follows:\n\nIn 2003, researcher Barr McClellan published the book \"Blood, Money & Power\". McClellan claims that Johnson, motivated by the fear of being dropped from the Kennedy ticket in 1964 and the need to cover up various scandals, masterminded Kennedy's assassination with the help of his friend, Austin attorney Edward A. Clark. The book suggests that a smudged partial fingerprint from the sniper's nest likely belonged to Johnson's associate Malcolm \"Mac\" Wallace, and that Mac Wallace was, therefore, on the sixth floor of the Depository at the time of the shooting. The book further claims that the killing of Kennedy was paid for by oil magnates, including Clint Murchison and H. L. Hunt. McClellan states that the assassination of Kennedy allowed the oil depletion allowance to be kept at 27.5 percent. It remained unchanged during the Johnson presidency. According to McClellan, this resulted in a saving of over $100 million to the American oil industry. McClellan's book subsequently became the subject of an episode of Nigel Turner's ongoing documentary television series, \"The Men Who Killed Kennedy\". The episode, \"The Guilty Men\", drew angry condemnation from the Johnson family, Johnson's former aides, and former Presidents Gerald Ford (who was a member of the Warren Commission) and Jimmy Carter following its airing on The History Channel. The History Channel assembled a committee of historians who concluded the accusations in the documentary were without merit, and The History Channel apologized to the Johnson family and agreed not to air the series in the future.\n\nMadeleine Brown, who alleged she was the mistress of Johnson, also implicated him in a conspiracy to kill Kennedy. In 1997, Brown said that Johnson, along with H. L. Hunt, had begun planning Kennedy's demise as early as 1960. Brown claimed that by its fruition in 1963, the conspiracy involved dozens of persons, including the leadership of the FBI and the Mafia, as well as prominent politicians and journalists. In the documentary \"The Men Who Killed Kennedy\", Madeleine Brown and May Newman (an employee of Texas oilman Clint Murchison) both placed FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover at a social gathering at Murchison's mansion the night before the assassination. Also in attendance, according to Brown, were John McCloy, Richard Nixon, George Brown, R. L. Thornton, and H. L. Hunt. Madeleine Brown claimed that Johnson arrived at the gathering late in the evening and, in a \"grating whisper\", told her that the \"... Kennedys will never embarrass me again—that's no threat—that's a promise.\" In addition, Brown said that on New Year's Eve 1963, she met Johnson at the Driskill Hotel in Austin, Texas and that he confirmed the conspiracy to kill Kennedy, insisting that \"the fat cats of Texas and [U.S.] intelligence\" had been responsible. Brown reiterated her allegations against Johnson in the 2006 documentary \"Evidence of Revision\". In the same documentary, several other Johnson associates also voiced their suspicions of Johnson.\n\nDr. Charles Crenshaw authored the 1992 book \"JFK: Conspiracy of Silence\", along with conspiracy theorists Jens Hansen and J. Gary Shaw. Crenshaw was a third-year surgical resident on the trauma team at Parkland Hospital that attended to President Kennedy. He also treated Oswald after he was shot by Jack Ruby. While attending to Oswald, Crenshaw said that he answered a telephone call from Lyndon Johnson. Crenshaw said that Johnson inquired about Oswald's status, and that Johnson demanded a \"death-bed confession from the accused assassin [Oswald]\". Crenshaw said that he relayed Johnson's message to Dr. Shires, but that Oswald was in no condition to give any statement. Critics of Crenshaw's allegation state that Johnson was in his limousine at the moment the call would have been made, that no one in his car corroborated that the call was made, and that there is no record of such a call being routed through the White House switchboard.\n\nFormer CIA agent and Watergate figure E. Howard Hunt accused Johnson (along with several CIA agents whom he named) of complicity in the assassination in his posthumously released autobiography \"\". Referencing that section of the book, Tim Weiner of \"The New York Times\" and Joseph C. Goulden of \"The Washington Times\" called into question the sincerity of the charges, and William F. Buckley, Jr., who wrote the foreword, said material \"was clearly ghostwritten\". Shortly afterwards, an audio-taped \"deathbed confession\" in which Hunt claimed knowledge of a conspiracy was released by his sons; the authenticity of the confession was also met with some skepticism.\n\nIn 1984, convicted swindler Billie Sol Estes made statements to a Grand Jury in Texas indicating that he had \"inside knowledge\" that implicated Johnson in the death of Kennedy and others.\n\nHistorian Michael L. Kurtz wrote that there is no evidence suggesting that Johnson ordered the assassination of Kennedy. According to Kurtz, Johnson believed Fidel Castro was responsible for the assassination and that Johnson covered up the truth because he feared the possibility that retaliatory measures against Cuba might escalate to nuclear war with the Soviet Union. In 2012, biographer Robert Caro published his fourth volume on Johnson's career, \"The Passage of Power\", which chronicles Johnson's communications and actions as Vice President, and describes the events leading up to the assassination. Caro wrote that \"nothing that I have found in my research\" points to involvement by Johnson.\n\nIn its report, the Warren Commission stated that it had investigated \"dozens of allegations of a conspiratorial contact between Oswald and agents of the Cuban Government\" and had found no evidence of Cuban involvement in the assassination of President Kennedy. The House Select Committee on Assassinations also wrote: \"The committee believes, on the basis of the evidence available to it, that the Cuban Government was not involved in the assassination of President Kennedy\". However, some conspiracy theorists continue to allege that Fidel Castro ordered the assassination of Kennedy in retaliation for the CIA's previous attempts to assassinate him.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Clare Boothe Luce, wife of Time-Life publisher Henry Luce, was one of a number of prominent Americans who sponsored anti-Castro groups. This support included funding exiles in commando speedboat raids against Cuba. In 1975, Clare Luce said that on the night of the assassination, she received a call from a member of a commando group she had sponsored. According to Luce, the caller's name was \"something like\" Julio Fernandez and he claimed he was calling her from New Orleans.\n\nAccording to Luce, Fernandez told her that Oswald had approached his group with an offer to help assassinate Castro. Fernandez further claimed that he and his associates eventually found out that Oswald was a communist and supporter of Castro. He said that with this new-found knowledge, his group kept a close watch on Oswald until Oswald suddenly came into money and went to Mexico City and then Dallas. Finally, according to Luce, Fernandez told her, \"There is a Cuban Communist assassination team at large and Oswald was their hired gun.\"\n\nLuce said that she told the caller to give his information to the FBI. Subsequently, Luce would reveal the details of the incident to both the Church Committee and the HSCA. Both committees investigated the incident, but were unable to uncover any evidence to corroborate the allegations.\n\nIn May 1967, CIA Director Richard Helms told President Lyndon Johnson that the CIA had tried to assassinate Castro. Helms further stated that the CIA had employed members of the Mafia in this effort, and \"... that CIA plots to assassinate Fidel Castro dated back to August of 1960—to the Eisenhower Administration.\" Helms also said that the plots against Castro continued into the Kennedy Administration and that Attorney General Robert Kennedy had known about both the plots and the Mafia's involvement.\n\nOn separate occasions, Johnson told two prominent television newsmen that he believed that JFK's assassination had been organized by Castro as retaliation for the CIA's efforts to kill Castro. In October 1968, Johnson told veteran newsman Howard K. Smith of ABC that \"Kennedy was trying to get to Castro, but Castro got to him first.\" In September 1969, in an interview with Walter Cronkite of CBS, Johnson said in regard to the assassination, \"[I could not] honestly say that I've ever been completely relieved of the fact that there might have been international connections\", and referenced unnamed \"others\". Finally, in 1971, Johnson told his former speechwriter Leo Janos of \"Time\" magazine that he \"never believed that Oswald acted alone\".\n\nIn 1977, Castro was interviewed by newsman Bill Moyers. Castro denied any involvement in Kennedy's death, saying:\n\nIt would have been absolute insanity by Cuba. ... It would have been a provocation. Needless to say, it would have been to run the risk that our country would have been destroyed by the United States. Nobody who's not insane could have thought about [killing Kennedy in retaliation].\n\nThe Warren Commission reported that they found no evidence that the Soviet Union was involved in the assassination of President Kennedy. The House Select Committee on Assassinations also wrote: \"The committee believes, on the basis of the evidence available to it, that the Soviet Government was not involved in the assassination of President Kennedy\".\n\nAccording to some conspiracy theorists, the Soviet Union, with Nikita Khrushchev motivated by having to back down during the Cuban Missile Crisis, was responsible for the assassination.\n\nAccording to a 1966 FBI document, Colonel Boris Ivanov—chief of the KGB Residency in New York City at the time of the assassination—stated that it was his personal opinion that the assassination had been planned by an organized group, rather than a lone individual. The same document stated, \"... officials of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union believed there was some well-organized conspiracy on the part of the 'ultraright' in the United States to effect a 'coup.'\"\n\nMuch later, the high-ranking Soviet Bloc intelligence defector, Lt. Gen. Ion Mihai Pacepa, said that he had a conversation with Nicolae Ceauşescu who told him about \"ten international leaders the Kremlin killed or tried to kill\", including Kennedy. He claimed that \"among the leaders of Moscow's satellite intelligence services there was unanimous agreement that the KGB had been involved in the assassination of President Kennedy.\" Pacepa later released a book, \"Programmed to Kill: Lee Harvey Oswald, the Soviet KGB, and the Kennedy Assassination\", in 2007. Similar views on the JFK assassination were expressed by Robert Holmes, former First Secretary at the British Embassy in Moscow, in his 2012 book \"Spy Like No Other\".\n\nDavid Lifton presented a scenario in which conspirators on Air Force One removed Kennedy's body from its original bronze casket and placed it in a shipping casket, while en route from Dallas to Washington. Once the presidential plane arrived at Andrews Air Force Base, the shipping casket with the President's body in it was surreptitiously taken by helicopter from the side of the plane that was out of the television camera's view. Kennedy's body was then taken to an unknown location—most likely Walter Reed Army Medical Center—to surgically alter the body to make it appear that he was shot only from the rear.\n\nPart of Lifton's theory comes from a House Select Committee on Assassinations report of an interview of Lt. Richard Lipsey on January 18, 1978, by committee staff members Donald Purdy and Mark Flanagan. According to the report, Lt. Richard Lipsey said that he and General Wehle had met President Kennedy's body at Andrews Air Force Base. Lipsey \"... placed [the casket] in a hearse to be transported to Bethesda Naval Hospital. Lipsey mentioned that he and Wehle then flew by helicopter to Bethesda and took [the body of] JFK into the back of Bethesda.\" Lipsey said that \"a decoy hearse had been driven to the front [of Bethesda]\". With Lipsey's mention of a \"decoy hearse\" at Bethesda, Lifton theorized that the casket removed by Lipsey from Air Force One—from the side of the plane exposed to television—was probably also a decoy and was likely empty.\n\nLaboratory technologist Paul O'Connor was one of the major witnesses supporting another part of David Lifton's theory that somewhere between Parkland and Bethesda the President's body was made to appear as if it had been shot only from the rear. O'Connor said that President Kennedy's body arrived at Bethesda inside a body bag in \"a cheap, shipping-type of casket\", which differed from the description of the ornamental bronze casket and sheet that the body had been wrapped in at Parkland Hospital. O'Connor said that the brain had already been removed by the time it got to Bethesda, and that there were \"just little pieces\" of brain matter left inside the skull.\n\nResearcher David Wrone dismissed the theory that Kennedy's body was surreptitiously removed from the presidential plane, stating that as is done with all cargo on airplanes for safety precautions, the coffin and lid were held by steel wrapping cables to prevent shifting during takeoff and landing and in case of air disturbances in flight. According to Wrone, the side of the plane away from the television camera \"was bathed in klieg lights, and thousands of persons watched along the fence that bent backward along that side, providing, in effect, a well-lit and very public stage for any would-be body snatchers\".\n\nJim Marrs, in his book \"Crossfire\", presented the theory that Kennedy was trying to rein in the power of the Federal Reserve, and that forces opposed to such action might have played at least some part in the assassination. According to Marrs, the issuance of Executive Order 11110 was an effort by Kennedy to transfer power from the Federal Reserve to the United States Department of the Treasury by replacing Federal Reserve Notes with silver certificates. Actor and author Richard Belzer named the responsible parties in this theory as American \"billionaires, power brokers, and bankers ... working in tandem with the CIA and other sympathetic agents of the government\".\n\nA 2010 article in \"Research\" magazine discussing various controversies surrounding the Federal Reserve stated that \"the wildest accusation against the Fed is that it was involved in Kennedy's assassination.\" Critics of the theory note that Kennedy called for and signed legislation phasing out Silver Certificates in favor of Federal Reserve Notes, thereby enhancing the power of the Federal Reserve; and that Executive Order 11110 was a technicality that only delegated existing presidential powers to the Secretary of the Treasury for administrative convenience during a period of transition.\n\nImmediately following Kennedy's death, speculation that he was assassinated by a \"Zionist conspiracy\" was prevalent in much of the Muslim world. Among these views were that Zionists were motivated to kill Kennedy due to his opposition to an Israeli nuclear program, that Lyndon B. Johnson received orders from Zionists to have Kennedy killed, and that the assassin was a Zionist agent.\n\nAccording to Michael Collins Piper in \"Final Judgment: The Missing Link in the JFK Assassination Controversy\", Israeli Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion orchestrated the assassination after learning that Kennedy planned to keep Israel from obtaining nuclear weapons. Piper said that the assassination \"was a joint enterprise conducted on the highest levels of the American CIA, in collaboration with organized crime—and most specifically, with direct and profound involvement by the Israeli intelligence service, the Mossad.\" The theory also alleges involvement of Meyer Lansky and the Anti-Defamation League. In 2004, Mordechai Vanunu stated that the assassination was Israel's response to \"pressure [Kennedy] exerted on ... Ben-Gurion, to shed light on Dimona's nuclear reactor in Israel\". In a speech before the United Nations General Assembly in 2009, Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi also alleged that Kennedy was killed for wanting to investigate Dimona.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49051928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49051928", "title": "John III Crispo", "text": "John III Crispo\n\nJohn III Crispo () was the eighteenth Duke of the Archipelago, ruling from 1480 when he succeeded his brother, Giacomo III Crispo (r. 1463-1480). \n\nShortly after this, he reincorporated Santorini, which had been ruled by Domenico Pisani, husband of his niece Fiorenza Crispo, into the Duchy. His raising of taxes made him very unpopular among the Greek population of Naxos, however. They rebelled under their own magnates (\"archontes\"), and the Crispi and the other Catholic families loyal to them were shut in the island's citadel (Kastro) and were besieged by the rebels. Only the timely arrival of galleys from the Knights Hospitaller of Rhodes rescued Crispo and put an end to the revolt.\n\nThe discontent did not subside, however, and in 1494 John was killed, apparently by poison, by the locals, who sent an embassy to Venice requesting for the Republic to assume control of the island, as John's sole heir, his son Francesco III Crispo, was underage. In the end, Francesco assumed his father's position in 1500.\n\nHe was married to a Morosini and had issue: \n\n\nHe also had a Mistress, his cousin, Maria Crispo, daughter of Nicholas Crispo Lord of Syros (Sira).\n\nThey had issue: \n\n"}
{"id": "3959533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3959533", "title": "Jonathan Luna", "text": "Jonathan Luna\n\nJonathan Paul Luna (October 21, 1965 – December 4, 2003) was an American lawyer found dead under mysterious circumstances in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania while serving as an Assistant United States Attorney in Baltimore, Maryland. Luna had been stabbed 36 times with his own penknife and then drowned in a creek next to his car in rural Lancaster County. Investigations have proven inconclusive, and there is debate on whether Luna's death was murder or suicide.\n\nLuna was born on 21 October 1965, and grew up in the Patterson housing project near Yankee Stadium in the South Bronx, New York City. His father was Filipino, and his mother an African-American from the American South. Luna received his undergraduate degree from Fordham University. He later studied at the University of North Carolina School of Law, where he was roommates with Reggie Shuford. He worked at Arnold & Porter in Washington, D.C. from 1993 to 1994 and the Federal Trade Commission from 1994 to 1997. Luna served as a prosecutor in the Brooklyn borough of New York City before moving to Baltimore, Maryland to become an Assistant United States Attorney. Luna married Angela Hopkins, an obstetrician, on August 29, 1993, and they had two children.\n\nAt 11:38 pm on the night he died, Luna left the Baltimore courthouse and went northeast on I-95. He used his E-ZPass on I-95 into Delaware but not on the New Jersey and Pennsylvania Turnpikes. After three toll interchanges, he switched to buying toll tickets.\nAt 12:57 am, $200 was withdrawn from Luna's bank account from the ATM at the JFK Plaza service center near Newark, Delaware. At 02:47 am he crossed the Delaware River toll bridge to the Pennsylvania Turnpike, and at 03:20 am his debit card bought gas at the Sunoco King of Prussia service plaza.\n\nAt 04:04 am his car exited the turnpike at the Reading-Lancaster interchange. The toll ticket had a spot of his blood on it suggesting that he was already injured. His car was parked at the back of the Sensenig & Weaver Well Drilling company at 1439 Dry Tavern Road, Denver, Pennsylvania (Brecknock Township) before it was later driven into the creek.\n\nAt 05:00 am the first employee of Sensenig & Weaver arrived, and half an hour later at 05:30 am the car was noticed, with its lights off and the front end into the stream. Blood was smeared over the driver's door and the front left of the car. Luna was face down in the stream under the car engine. He was wearing a suit and a black overcoat with his court ID around his neck. A pool of blood was found on the rear seat floor. Although stabbed 36 times with his own penknife around the chest and neck plus a head injury, the death was due to drowning.\n\nNo suspects or motive for murder were determined. The federal authorities (FBI) lean toward calling it a suicide and came to the conclusion he was alone from the time he left his office until his body was found, but the local Lancaster County authorities, including two successive coroners, ruled it a homicide. Additional evidence collected during the investigation captured a second blood type and a partial print, as well as some grainy footage from near the time of the gas station purchase made with Luna's credit card at the Sunoco service plaza. The investigation remains ongoing, and there is an unclaimed federal reward of $100,000 for information leading to a conviction.\n\nIt was initially reported that Luna did not have the expected substantial defense wounds on his hands and that many of the wounds are shallow which are called \"hesitation\" wounds in a suicide victim. Some suggested motives for suicide were that Luna was to take a polygraph test concerning $36,000 which disappeared from a bank robbery case that he had prosecuted. Luna had a charge card which his wife, Angela, did not know about. His name was on an Internet dating site and he had a $25,000 credit card debt. There is also an accidental suicide theory that Luna was fabricating a kidnapping and attack and that he went too far.\n\nThe Lancaster County coroner who performed the autopsy ruled Luna's death a homicide by drowning. Luna left his glasses, which he needed to drive, and his cell phone on his desk. He had called defense attorneys earlier in the night saying he would fax over documents that night but they never arrived. The pool of blood in the back seat would suggest Luna was in back and someone else was driving. \n\nIn early February 2007, a private investigator and an attorney, both hired by Luna's family, filed a petition for a writ of mandamus in order to force the Lancaster County coroner to conduct an inquest into Luna's death, after an earlier request was declined.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13046106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13046106", "title": "List of accidents and disasters by death toll", "text": "List of accidents and disasters by death toll\n\nThis is a list of accidents and disasters by death toll. It shows the number of fatalities associated with various explosions, structural fires, flood disasters, coal mine disasters, and other notable accidents. Purposeful disasters, such as terrorist attacks, are omitted; those events can be found at List of battles and other violent events by death toll.\n\n"}
{"id": "31922736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31922736", "title": "List of rampage killers (Africa and the Middle East)", "text": "List of rampage killers (Africa and the Middle East)\n\nThis section of the list of rampage killers contains those cases that occurred in Africa and the Middle East.\n\nThis section does not include school massacres; workplace killings; religious, political, or racial crimes; or mass murders that took place primarily in a domestic environment, like familicides, which are covered in their own categories. Cases where the primary motive for the murders was to facilitate or cover up another felony, like robbery, are also excluded.\n\nA rampage killer has been defined as follows:\n\nThis list should contain every case with at least one of the following features:\n\nAll abbreviations used in the table are explained below. \nW – A basic description of the weapons used in the murders\n"}
{"id": "40849396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40849396", "title": "Marais v The Master", "text": "Marais v The Master\n\nIn Marais v The Master, an important case in the South African law of succession, the testator, who had divorced from his wife in 1972, bequeathed his entire estate to her in 1977. Before his death, he wrote words on his copy of the will and on a letter from his attorney, attempting to revoke the will and direct that his mother was to be his sole heir. The court held that there had been a clear intention to revoke the will and to nominate his mother as sole beneficiary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41528945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41528945", "title": "Metachirality", "text": "Metachirality\n\nMetachirality is a stronger form of chirality.\nIt applies to objects or systems that are chiral (not identical to their mirror image) and where, in addition, their mirror image has a symmetry group that differs from the symmetry group of the original object or system.\n\nMany familiar chiral objects, like the capital letter 'Z' embedded in the plane, are not metachiral.\nThe symmetry group of the capital letter 'Z' embedded in the plane consists of the identity transformation and a rotation over 180˚ (a half turn).\nIn this case, the mirror image has the same symmetry group.\nIn particular, asymmetric objects (that only have the identity transformation as symmetry, like a human hand) are not metachiral,\nsince the mirror image is also asymmetric.\nIn general, two-dimensional objects and bounded three-dimensional objects are not metachiral.\n\nAn example of a metachiral object is an infinite helical staircase.\nA helix in 3D has a \"handedness\" (either left or right, like screw thread), whereby it differs from its mirror image.\nAn infinite helical staircase, however, does have symmetries:\nscrew operations, that is, a combination of a translation and a rotation.\nThe symmetry group of the mirror image of an infinite helical staircase also contains screw operations.\nBut they are of the opposite handedness and, hence,\nthe symmetry groups differ.\nNote, however, that these symmetry groups are isomorphic.\n\nOf the 219 space groups, 11 are metachiral.\nA nice example of a metachiral spatial structure is the K crystal, also known as Triamond,\nand featured in the \"Bamboozle\" mathematical artwork.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43710363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43710363", "title": "Mind Meld", "text": "Mind Meld\n\nMind Meld: Secrets Behind the Voyage of a Lifetime is a 2001 American documentary film in which actors William Shatner and Leonard Nimoy discuss the \"Star Trek\" science fiction franchise and its effects on their lives. Shatner and Nimoy portrayed the characters James T. Kirk and Spock respectively in the , the , and their film sequels. They talk about differences they had with Gene Roddenberry, the creator of \"Star Trek\", and about the strained relationships between Shatner and some of the other cast members. It was in this film that Nimoy first publicly revealed that he had struggled with alcoholism while he was acting in the original television series. Shatner talks about the death of his third wife, Nerine Kidd, who accidentally drowned in a pool in 1999 after suffering from alcoholism.\n\n\"Mind Meld\" was produced to advertise Shatner's personal website. Filming took place at Nimoy's home on September 5, 2001, and Billy West narrated the title sequence. The film's title refers to a fictional practice in \"Star Trek\"—a mind meld is a telepathic link that Vulcans are able to create with other organisms. \"Mind Meld\" was released for sale on Shatner's website on November 6, 2001, coinciding with the release of the director's cut of \"\". \"Mind Meld\" attracted some notoriety because of an unintended sound in one scene that became a popular subject of flatulence humor among \"Star Trek\" fans and on morning zoo radio programs. Shatner denied being the source of this sound in multiple interviews; he and \"Mind Meld\"'s director, Peter Jaysen, attributed it to equipment on set.\n\nThe film received mixed reviews from critics. Scott Brown of \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the film an \"F\", and said that the only people likely to watch the film were extreme \"Star Trek\" fans and people interested in hearing Shatner's supposed flatulence. Laurence Lerman of \"Video Business\" praised the film for not \"rehash[ing] anecdotes that have long been staples of \"Star Trek\" conventions and behind-the-scenes memoirs\", and instead for dealing with such topics as alcoholism, career difficulties, and conflicts on the set of \"Star Trek\".\n\nWilliam Shatner and Leonard Nimoy respectively portrayed James T. Kirk and Spock in \"Star Trek\", first in the 1960s television series (later retitled \"\"), then in the 1970s television series \"\", and subsequently in several \"Star Trek\" films between 1979 and 1994. In \"Mind Meld\", they discuss the \"Star Trek\" media franchise and its enduring success. The film is, except for the title sequence, composed entirely of Shatner and Nimoy in conversation. Many of the topics they discuss were inspired by online questions from fans. The film starts in Nimoy's backyard, where the two sit on patio chairs, and then moves into Nimoy's library, which is filled with souvenirs.\nThe film focuses on the effects \"Star Trek\" had on the lives of Shatner and Nimoy, with each actor interviewing the other about his fame. They talk about \"Star Trek\"s origins and the death of DeForest Kelley, who had portrayed Leonard McCoy in both \"The Original Series\" and \"The Animated Series\". Shatner and Nimoy also discuss interactions between themselves and others on the set of \"Star Trek\", including conflicts. Both Shatner and Nimoy describe having had strained relationships with Gene Roddenberry, the creator of \"Star Trek\", and attest to other members of the \"Original Series\" cast disliking Shatner. Only one of these cast members is referred to by name: Nichelle Nichols, who portrayed Nyota Uhura. \"I never fully comprehended what it was that was bothering them\", says Shatner.\n\nBoth men describe \"Star Trek\" as having put personal pressures on them that negatively affected their family lives. The conversation is mostly guided by Shatner, who prompts Nimoy to discuss issues he had regarding the legitimacy of consistently portraying an extraterrestrial, and other struggles with his acting career at the time. \"It took me a while,\" Nimoy says, \"but I got rid of all that anger when I realized that I never had to worry about work ever since \"Star Trek\" went on the air.\" Nimoy reveals that he was an alcoholic at the time of the original \"Star Trek\" series—something that was not publicly known before \"Mind Meld\". He developed \"a major drinking habit, probably during the second or third year\" of the series, he says, and had his secretary bring him alcohol in paper cups at the end of each day of filming. Nimoy suggests that he became dependent on alcohol because of the deterioration of his marriage to Sandra Zober, his first wife. He says that, since divorcing Zober in 1987 and marrying actress Susan Bay in 1988, he has been a teetotaler.\n\nShatner says that acting in \"Star Trek\" was \"life-consuming\" and left him \"barely any time for family\", and that this was the reason for his divorce from Gloria Rand, his first wife. He describes a subsequent succession of sexual partners, including, he says, \"Star Trek\" actresses. He also talks about the death of his father, Joseph Shatner, and of his third wife, Nerine Kidd, who accidentally drowned in a pool in 1999, losing a battle with alcoholism. Shatner recalls that Nimoy had expressed concern about Kidd's alcoholism and warned him about marrying her. Another topic is Nimoy's fine-art photography, which deals with spirituality and sensuality. Both Shatner and Nimoy say that, while they are glad that \"Star Trek\" became successful, they wish their subsequent fame had encroached less on their privacy. They also describe having been typecast as a result of their roles in \"Star Trek\", and say that this has had repercussions on their respective acting careers. Shatner recounts his initial surprise that, at science fiction conventions, the fans seem to like each other more than they like the science fiction actors. The film concludes with Nimoy putting his arm around Shatner's shoulder and saying, \"You're my best friend.\"\n\n\"Mind Meld\" was produced as a way of advertising Shatner's personal website, williamshatner.com, which offered features including the Shatner and Friends fan club's quarterly newsletter, semi-regular updates on Shatner's life, and a photograph of Shatner with the gorilla Koko. Shatner said that another reason they decided to make the film was because Nimoy was visibly getting old. Shatner asked Nimoy if he would be willing to discuss his experiences with alcoholism in the film, and Nimoy agreed. Nimoy later said that no one had ever asked him about this part of his past, and that discussing it in \"Mind Meld\" \"was an opportunity to put out some information that might be helpful to some people.\"\n\nFilming took place on September 5, 2001, in high-definition video at Nimoy's home, under the direction of Peter Jaysen. There was no script; the conversation between Shatner and Nimoy was \"ad lib\". The title sequence of \"Mind Meld\" is narrated by veteran voice actor Billy West, who had previously voiced such characters as Zim in the television series \"Invader Zim\", Ralph in \"Joe's Apartment\", and Elmer Fudd in \"\". While the filming session resulted in approximately two hours of footage, a significant portion of this was not used, resulting in a final runtime of 75 minutes. In an interview with science fiction magazine \"Starlog\", Shatner said, \"I don't think... that anything was cut because it was too personal or inflammatory. Edits were only made for time.\" The title of the film refers to a fictional practice in \"Star Trek\"; a mind meld is a telepathic link that Spock is able to create with other organisms because he is part Vulcan. Shatner summarized the film as being \"two friends talking one-on-one\".\n\n\"Mind Meld\" was released on VHS and DVD for sale on Shatner's website on November 6, 2001, coinciding with the release of the director's cut of \"\", a film that Shatner and Nimoy agreed was not as good as they had hoped it would be. \"Mind Meld\" was produced by Creative Light Entertainment, a company that produced another filmed interview the following year—\"Stan Lee's Mutants, Monsters & Marvels\", an interview of Marvel Comics publisher Stan Lee by film director Kevin Smith. The \"Mind Meld\" DVD offers widescreen and fullscreen options, Dolby Digital surround sound, and a five-minute \"making of\" featurette. \"Mind Meld\" T-shirts were available on Shatner's website. The film's release prompted Wil Wheaton, who had portrayed Wesley Crusher in \"\", to change the name of his comic science fiction improvisational theatre company from \"Mind Meld\" to \"EarnestBorg9\".\n\nShatner referred to \"The Original Series\" as \"cartoonish\" in \"Mind Meld\", but later, upon questioning by a reporter, said, \"I never thought it was a cartoon ... I never thought it was beneath me.\" In a February 2002 interview on \"Larry King Live\", Shatner said \"Mind Meld\" was similar to \"My Dinner with Andre\", and indicated that he and Nimoy were hoping to produce more films of a similar nature. Nimoy said of the film, \"This is the most personal insight the fans will get into our relationship and into aspects of Bill and myself they've never heard before.\" In April 2002, \"Mind Meld\" was screened at the Newport Beach Film Festival. Two years later, \"Mind Meld\" was included in the bonus material when the first six \"Star Trek\" films were re-released as a special edition box set.\n\nAround 52 minutes and 47 seconds into the film, when Shatner is talking about the other \"Original Series\" actors disliking him, he shifts in his chair and a sound evocative of flatulence is audible. This sound, apparently unnoticed by the filmmakers, was first mentioned in the media by Adam Buckman in the \"New York Post\" on October 10, 2001. Buckman wrote that he played the sound for more than six colleagues who all agreed that it came from Shatner. This scene became a popular subject of flatulence humor among \"Star Trek\" fans and on morning zoo radio programs. Reviewers identified as many as six other similar noises in \"Mind Meld\", between the 52-minute mark and the end.\n\nHoward Stern played the sound on his radio show several times, including when Shatner appeared on the show to promote his upcoming television series \"Iron Chef USA\" on November 13, 2001. When Stern asked about the sound, Shatner said it had been produced by the boom operator. A similar claim was made on Shatner's website, where the noise was attributed to a squeaky jib. On Conan O'Brien's \"Late Night\" program on November 14, Shatner called it \"outrageous\" that Buckman should assume him to be the source of the sound rather than Nimoy. O'Brien responded, \"You're the captain! You outrank him! It's your responsibility!\" Pressed further by O'Brien on the sound's provenance, Shatner suggested that it may have been a dog bark or a bird call. According to Jaysen, the sound did not emanate from Shatner, and was most likely caused by cables rubbing against each other while a camera moved. \"It was probably some machine that nobody heard\", Shatner said in a September 2002 interview. \"The controversy is over.\"\n\nJim Dawson devoted an entire chapter of his 2006 \"Modern History of the Fart\" to Shatner's alleged flatulence in \"Mind Meld\", which he compares to the sound of someone stepping on a tribble. G. Noel Gross of DVD Talk compared the excitement over this sound to that evinced by adolescent boys watching pornography, and compared the level of scrutiny devoted to the scene to that received by the Zapruder film.\n\nSarah Sloboda of \"The New York Times\" wrote that \"Mind Meld\" \"provides a genuine glimpse of the lives of the stars shadowed by the roles that defined their public personas, and the mutual experience that binds them as friends\". Gross praised the video quality, but criticized the DVD functionality and features. He also wrote that \"even in the heavier parts of this conversation, there's a warmth and comradery there that's rife with good humor\". Scott Brown of \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the film an F, saying that the only people likely to watch the film other than extreme \"Star Trek\" fans are people interested in hearing the sound alleged to be Shatner's flatulence, which Brown said can be clearly heard. He called the film \"seemingly interminable\" and said the discussion between Shatner and Nimoy shows that they \"rival black holes in sheer self-absorption\". According to John Henzell, writing for \"The Press\" of New Zealand, \"Mind Meld\"s trailer took its subject matter so seriously that it became comical.\n\nVern Perry of the \"Orange County Register\" called the film fascinating, writing that it skilfully combined humor and earnestness. He wrote that it was moving to see the two actors talk about their personal lives with such vulnerability—particularly when Nimoy discusses his experiences with alcoholism. Greg Stacy of \"OC Weekly\" reported being \"thoroughly charmed\" by the film, and called \"the affection between [Shatner and Nimoy] obvious and touching.\"\n\nLaurence Lerman of \"Video Business\" praised \"Mind Meld\" for not \"rehash[ing] anecdotes that have long been staples of \"Star Trek\" conventions and behind-the-scenes memoirs\", but instead dealing with such topics as alcoholism, career difficulties, and conflicts on the set of \"Star Trek\". Mike Clark of \"USA Today\" praised Shatner's interviewing abilities and wrote that the film was engaging. Clark called Shatner's and Nimoy's conversation \"surprisingly frank\", but added that Shatner was \"full of himself\". A review in British newspaper \"The Guardian\" summarized \"Mind Meld\" as \"a couple of gents sitting around talking\".\n\n"}
{"id": "142580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142580", "title": "Misotheism", "text": "Misotheism\n\nMisotheism is the \"hatred of God\" or \"hatred of the gods\" (from the Greek adjective μισόθεος \"hating the gods\", a compound of μῖσος \"hatred\" and θεός \"god\"). In some varieties of polytheism, it was considered possible to inflict punishment on gods by ceasing to worship them. Thus, Hrafnkell, protagonist of the eponymous \"Hrafnkels saga\" set in the 10th century, as his temple to Freyr is burnt and he is enslaved, states that \"I think it is folly to have faith in gods\", never performing another blót (sacrifice), a position described in the sagas as \"goðlauss\", \"godless\". Jacob Grimm in his \"Teutonic Mythology\" observes that:\n\nIn monotheism, the sentiment arises in the context of theodicy (the problem of evil, the Euthyphro dilemma). A famous literary expression of misotheistic sentiment is Goethe's \"Prometheus\", composed in the 1770s.\n\nA related concept is dystheism ( \"bad god\"), the belief that a god is not wholly good, and is possibly evil. Trickster gods found in polytheistic belief systems often have a dystheistic nature. One example is Eshu, a trickster god from Yoruba religion who deliberately fostered violence between groups of people for his own amusement, saying that \"causing strife is my greatest joy.\"\n\nThe concept of the Demiurge in some versions of ancient Gnosticism also often portrayed the Demiurge as a generally evil entity.\n\nMany polytheistic deities since prehistoric times have been assumed to be neither good nor evil (or to have both qualities). Thus dystheism is normally used in reference to the Judeo-Christian God. In conceptions of God as the summum bonum, the proposition of God not being wholly good would be an oxymoron.\n\nA historical proposition close to \"dystheism\" is the \"deus deceptor\" \"evil demon\" (\"\") of René Descartes' \"Meditations on First Philosophy\", which has been interpreted by Protestant critics as the blasphemous proposition that God exhibits malevolent intent. But Richard Kennington states that Descartes never declared his \"evil genius\" to be omnipotent, but merely no less powerful than he is deceitful, and thus not explicitly an equivalent to God, the singular omnipotent deity.\n\n\nDystheistic speculation arises from consideration of the problem of evil — the question of why God, who is supposedly omnipotent, omniscient, and omnibenevolent, would allow evil to exist in the world. Koons notes that this is only a theological problem for a eutheist, since a dystheist would not find the existence of evil (or God's authorship of it) to be an obstacle to theistic belief. In fact, the dystheistic option would be a consistent non-contradictory response to the problem of evil. Thus Koons concludes that the problem of theodicy (explaining how God can be good despite the apparent contradiction presented in the problem of evil) does not pose a challenge to \"all\" possible forms of theism (i.e., that the problem of evil does not present a contradiction to someone who would believe that God exists but that he is not necessarily good).\n\nThis conclusion implicitly takes the first horn of the Euthyphro dilemma, asserting the independence of good and evil morality from God (as God is defined in monotheistic belief). Historically, the notion of \"good\" as an absolute concept has emerged in parallel with the notion of God being the singular entity identified with good. In this sense, dystheism amounts to the abandonment of a central feature of historical monotheism: the de facto association of God with the summum bonum.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer wrote: \"This world could not have been the work of an all-loving being, but that of a devil, who had brought creatures into existence in order to delight in the sight of their sufferings.\"\n\nCritics of Calvin's doctrines of predestination frequently argued that Calvin's doctrines did not successfully avoid describing God as \"the author of evil\".\n\nMuch of post-Holocaust theology, especially in Judaic theological circles, is devoted to a rethinking of God's goodness. Examples include the work of David R. Blumenthal, author of \"Facing the Abusing God\" (1993) and John K. Roth, whose essay \"A Theodicy of Protest\" is included in \"Encountering Evil: Live Options in Theodicy\" (1982):\n\nThe \"deus deceptor\" (French \"dieu trompeur\") \"deceptive god\" is a concept of Cartesianism.\nVoetius accused Descartes of blasphemy in 1643. Jacques Triglandius and Jacobus Revius, theologians at Leiden University, made similar accusations in 1647, accusing Descartes of \"hold[ing] God to be a deceiver\", a position that they stated to be \"contrary to the glory of God\". Descartes was threatened with having his views condemned by a synod, but this was prevented by the intercession of the Prince of Orange (at the request of the French Ambassador Servien).\nThe accusations referenced a passage in the \"First Meditation\" where Descartes stated that he supposed not an optimal God but rather an evil demon \"summe potens & callidus\" ( \"most highly powerful and cunning\"). The accusers identified Descartes' concept of a deus deceptor with his concept of an evil demon, stating that only an omnipotent God is \"summe potens\" and that describing the evil demon as such thus demonstrated the identity. Descartes' response to the accusations was that in that passage he had been expressly distinguishing between \"the supremely good God, the source of truth, on the one hand, and the malicious demon on the other\". He did not directly rebut the charge of implying that the evil demon was omnipotent, but asserted that simply describing something with \"some attribute that in reality belongs only to God\" does not mean that that something is being held to actually \"be\" a supreme God.\n\nThe evil demon is omnipotent, Christian doctrine notwithstanding, and is seen as a key requirement for Descartes' argument by Cartesian scholars such as Alguié, Beck, Émile Bréhier, Chevalier, Frankfurt, Étienne Gilson, Anthony Kenny, Laporte, Kemp-Smith, and Wilson. The progression through the \"First Meditation\", leading to the introduction of the concept of the evil genius at the end, is to introduce various categories into the set of dubitables, such as mathematics (i.e. Descartes' addition of 2 and 3 and counting the sides of a square). Although the hypothetical evil genius is never stated to be one and the same as the hypothetical \"deus deceptor,\" (God the deceiver) the inference by the reader that they are is a natural one, and the requirement that the deceiver is capable of introducing deception even into mathematics is seen by commentators as a necessary part of Descartes' argument. Scholars contend that in fact Descartes was not introducing a new hypothetical, merely couching the idea of a deceptive God in terms that would not be offensive.\n\nPaul Erdős, the eccentric and extremely prolific Hungarian-born mathematician, referred to the notion of \"deus deceptor\" in a humorous context when he called God \"the Supreme Fascist\", who deliberately hid things from people, ranging from socks and passports to the most elegant of mathematical proofs. A similar sentiment is expressed by Douglas Adams in \"The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy\" in reference to the temptation of Adam and Eve by God:\n\nThere are various examples of arguable dystheism in the Bible, sometimes cited as arguments for atheism (e.g. Bertrand Russell 1957), most of them from the Pentateuch.\nA notable exception is the Book of Job, a classical case study of theodicy, which can be argued to consciously discuss the possibility of dystheism (e.g. Carl Jung, \"Answer to Job\").\n\nThomas Paine wrote in \"The Age of Reason\" that \"whenever we read the obscene stories, the voluptuous debaucheries, the cruel and torturous executions, the unrelenting vindictiveness, with which more than half the Bible is filled, it would be more consistent that we called it the word of a demon than the word of God.\" But Paine's perspective was a deistic one, critical more of common beliefs about God than of God himself.\n\nThe New Testament contains references to an \"evil god\", specifically the \"prince of this world\" (John 14:30, ) or \"god of this world\" (2 Corinthians 4:4, ) who has \"blinded the minds of men\".\nMainstream Christian theology sees these as references to Satan (\"the Devil\"), but Gnostics, Marcionites, and Manicheans saw these as references to Yahweh (God) himself.\nReferences to God as wrathful or violent are more sparse in the New Testament than in the Old, but a number of antitheist speakers, notably Christopher Hitchens and Matt Dillahunty, have drawn attention to a number of passages.\n\nMisotheistic and/or dystheistic expression has a long history in the arts and in literature. Bernard Schweizer’s book \"Hating God: The Untold Story of Misotheism\" is devoted to this topic. He traces the history of ideas behind misotheism from the Book of Job, via Epicureanism and the twilight of Roman paganism, to deism, anarchism, Nietzschean philosophy, feminism, and radical humanism. The main literary figures in his study are Percy Bysshe Shelley, Algernon Swinburne, Zora Neale Hurston, Rebecca West, Elie Wiesel, Peter Shaffer, and Philip Pullman. Schweizer argues that literature is the preferred medium for the expression of God-hatred because the creative possibilities of literature allow writers to simultaneously unburden themselves of their misotheism, while ingeneously veiling their blasphemy.\n\nOther examples include:\n\nIn more recent times, the sentiment is present in a variety of media:\n\nThe characters in several of Tennessee Williams' plays express dystheistic attitudes, including the Rev. T. Lawrence Shannon in \"The Night of the Iguana.\"\n\nRobert Frost's poem \"Design\" questions how God could have created death if he were benevolent.\n\nIn Jewish author Elie Wiesel's play \"The Trial of God\" (1979), the survivors of a pogrom, in which most of the inhabitants of a 17th-century Jewish village were massacred, put God on trial for his cruelty and indifference to their misery. The play is based on an actual trial Wiesel participated in that was conducted by inmates of the Auschwitz concentration camp during the Nazi holocaust, but it also references a number of other incidents in Jewish history including a similar trial conducted by the Hasidic Rabbi Levi Yosef Yitzhak of Berdichev:\n\nSeveral non-Jewish authors share Wiesel's concerns about God's nature, including Salman Rushdie (\"The Satanic Verses\", \"Shalimar the Clown\") and Anne Provoost (\"In the Shadow of the Ark\"):\nThe writing of Sir Kingsley Amis contains some misotheistic themes; e.g. in \"The Green Man\" (God's appearance as the young man), and in \"The Anti-Death League\" (the anonymous poem received by the chaplain).\n\nA number of speculative fiction works present a dystheistic perspective, at least as far back as the works of H. P. Lovecraft and Olaf Stapledon's influential philosophical short novel \"Star Maker\".\n\nBy the 1970s, Harlan Ellison even described dystheism as a bit of a science fiction cliché. Ellison himself has dealt with the theme in his \"The Deathbird\", the title story of \"Deathbird Stories\", a collection based on the theme of (for the most part) malevolent modern-day gods. Lester del Rey's \"Evensong\" (the first story in Harlan Ellison's much-acclaimed \"Dangerous Visions\" anthology), tells the story of a fugitive God hunted down across the universe by a vengeful humanity which seeks to \"put him in his place\". \"Faith of Our Fathers\" by Philip K. Dick, also from the same anthology, features a horrifying vision of a being, possibly God, who is all-devouring and amoral. Philip Pullman's previously mentioned trilogy, \"His Dark Materials\", presented the theme of a negligent or evil God to a wider audience, as depicted in the 2007 film \"The Golden Compass\" based on the first book of this trilogy.\n\nThe original series of featured episodes with dystheistic themes, amongst them \"The Squire of Gothos\", \"Who Mourns for Adonais?\", \"For the World Is Hollow and I Have Touched the Sky\", and \"The Return of the Archons\". In \"Encounter at Farpoint\", the pilot episode of \"\", Captain Jean-Luc Picard informs Q, a trickster with god-like powers similar to the antagonist in the aforementioned \"Squire of Gothos\" episode, that 24th-century humans no longer had any need to depend upon or worship god figures. This is an amplification of the tempered anti-theistic sentiment from \"Who Mourns for Adonais?\", in which Captain James T. Kirk tells Apollo that \"Mankind has no need for \"gods\", we find the \"one\" quite adequate.\" In \"\" it is revealed that the Klingon creation myth involves the first Klingons killing the gods that created them because, \"They were more trouble than they were worth.\"\n\nIn the film \"Pitch Black\", anti-hero protagonist Richard B. Riddick stated his own belief, \"Think someone could spend half their life in a slam with a horse bit in their mouth and not believe? Think he could start out in some liquor store trash bin with an umbilical cord wrapped around his neck and not believe? Got it all wrong, holy man. I absolutely believe in God... and I absolutely hate the fucker.\"\n\nRobert A. Heinlein's book \"\", which is mostly about religious institutions, ends with an appearance by Yahweh which is far from complimentary.\n\nThe Athar, a fictional organization from the D&D's Planescape Campaign Setting denies the divinity of the setting's deities. They do, however, tend to worship \"The Great Unknown\" in their place.\n\nIn the 2013 film \"Prisoners\", Holly Jones and her husband Isaac lost their faith in God after their son died of an unspecified disease. Since then, they have been kidnapping and murdering children in order to make other parents lose faith in God and turning them into revenge-driven hollow shells of their former selves, i.e. spreading their misotheism to other people. As Holly Jones states to Keller Dover near the end of the film, \"Making children disappear is the war we wage with God. Makes people lose their faith, turns them into demons like you.\"\n\n\"Misotheism\" is a 2008 album by Belgian black metal band \"Gorath\".\n\nDystheistic sentiment has also made its way into popular music, evincing itself in controversial songs like \"Dear God\" by the band XTC (later covered by Sarah McLachlan) and \"Blasphemous Rumours\" by Depeche Mode, which tells the story of a teenage girl who attempted suicide, survived, and turned her life over to God, only to be hit by a car, wind up on life support, and eventually die. A good deal of Gary Numan's work, specifically the album \"Exile\", is laden with misotheistic themes.\n\nThe output of Oscar-winning songwriter/composer Randy Newman also includes several songs expressing dystheistic sentiment, including the ironic \"He Gives Us All His Love\" and the more overtly maltheistic \"God's Song (That's Why I Love Mankind)\", both from his acclaimed 1972 album \"Sail Away\". In the latter song, Newman bemoans the futility of dealing with God whose attitude towards humanity he sees as one of contempt and cruelty.\n\nThe song \"God Made\" by Andrew Jackson Jihad proposes dystheism and has an implied hatred for God. More specifically, their song \"Be Afraid of Jesus\" is about a vengeful Christ although this could be a critique of fundamentalist hate speech.\n\n\"God Am\" by Alice in Chains from their self-titled release has many misotheistic themes about the perceived apathy of God towards the evil in this world.\n\nAmerican death metal bands Deicide and Morbid Angel base much of their lyrics around misotheism in name and in concept. Many bands in the black metal genre, such as Mayhem, Emperor, Gorgoroth and Darkthrone express extreme misotheism in their lyrics and actions, which involved burning down churches during the early 1990s.\n\nIn 2006, Australian artist Archie Moore created a paper sculpture called \"Maltheism\", which was considered for a Telstra Art Award in 2006. The piece was intended as a representation of a church made from pages of the Book of Deuteronomy: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36163498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36163498", "title": "Mole Baby", "text": "Mole Baby\n\nMole Baby is an iOS game for the iPhone and iPad designed by Chinese game company Taomee, which also created two games in the same franchise, \"Mole Kart\" and \"Mole's World\".\n\nThe game is a simulation game where the primary objective is to play with and raise the mole baby. The baby gives beans which can be used to buy costumes, fireworks, decorations, and more.\n\n"}
{"id": "555213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=555213", "title": "Mutation (genetic algorithm)", "text": "Mutation (genetic algorithm)\n\nMutation is a genetic operator used to maintain genetic diversity from one generation of a population of genetic algorithm chromosomes to the next. It is analogous to biological mutation. Mutation alters one or more gene values in a chromosome from its initial state. In mutation, the solution may change entirely from the previous solution. Hence GA can come to a better solution by using mutation. Mutation occurs during evolution according to a user-definable mutation probability. This probability should be set low. If it is set too high, the search will turn into a primitive random search.\n\nThe classic example of a mutation operator involves a probability that an arbitrary bit in a genetic sequence will be changed from its original state. A common method of implementing the mutation operator involves generating a random variable for each bit in a sequence. This random variable tells whether or not a particular bit will be modified. This mutation procedure, based on the biological point mutation, is called single point mutation. Other types are inversion and floating point mutation. When the gene encoding is restrictive as in permutation problems, mutations are swaps, inversions, and scrambles.\n\nThe purpose of mutation in GAs is preserving and introducing diversity. Mutation should allow the algorithm to avoid local minima by preventing the population of chromosomes from becoming too similar to each other, thus slowing or even stopping evolution. This reasoning also explains the fact that most GA systems avoid only taking the fittest of the population in generating the next but rather a random (or semi-random) selection with a weighting toward those that are fitter.\n\nFor different genome types, different mutation types are suitable:\n\n\nThis mutation operator takes the chosen genome and inverts the bits \n(i.e. if the genome bit is 1, it is changed to 0 and vice versa).\n\nThis mutation operator replaces the genome with either lower or upper bound randomly.\nThis can be used for integer and float genes.\n\nThe probability that amount of mutation will go to 0 with the next generation is increased by using non-uniform mutation operator. It keeps the population from stagnating in the early stages of the evolution. It tunes solution in later stages of evolution. This mutation operator can only be used for integer and float genes.\n\nThis operator replaces the value of the chosen gene with a uniform random value selected between the user-specified upper and lower bounds for that gene. This mutation operator can only be used for integer and float genes.\n\nThis operator adds a unit Gaussian distributed random value to the chosen gene. If it falls outside of the user-specified lower or upper bounds for that gene, the new gene value is clipped. This mutation operator can only be used for integer and float genes.\n\nThis operator adds a random number taken from a Gaussian distribution with mean equal to the original value of each decision variable characterizing the entry parent vector. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7097450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7097450", "title": "Pelesit", "text": "Pelesit\n\nPelesit is a Malay term for an inherited spirit or demon which serves a master. It is found in early Malay animism.\n\nThe Pelesit is reared by a woman as a shield for protection, guidance, and most probably as a weapon to harm other people. In that way it is associated with a black magic practitioner. It is the female version of Hantu Raya which confers great power on the owner.\n\nIn old Malay culture some people chose to live alone thus isolating themselves from society. They practiced black magic in order to gain strength, power, protection, beauty, but not popularity. Some gained a certain level of popularity or renown but there were others who remained in secrecy and refused to mingle with people.\n\nThis practice is popular among Malays who are animists and involved in the so-called \"Saka\" (the inheritance of a spirit from one generation to another). Pelesit is commonly associated with the katydid since it has the ability to turn itself into one.\n\nPelesit is one of the ghost mentioned in \"Hikayat Abdullah\", written by Abdullah bin Abdul Kadir, much to the amusement of Sir Thomas Stamford Bingley Raffles, his employer.\n\nTypically the owner, the Bomoh (shaman), uses the spirit in an exploitative way for monetary gain. The pelesit is first used to attack someone randomly, then the same Bomoh will be called to exorcise the so-called demon inside the victim (while the spectators have no idea that the bomoh is playing tricks on them). Later, a certain amount of money is given to the bomoh as a token of appreciation.\n\nA bomoh keeps his pelesit in a small bottle and offers it his own blood every full moon.\n\nPelesit is a dark spirit revered by shamans in Malay culture. It feeds on blood and works as a servant for its master. It demonizes people and causes chaos in society. Pelesit must have a continuous host and therefore needs to be passed down from one generation to the next. It should always be taken care of and fed constantly because if not, the demon will soon create havoc among the local inhabitants of its master's village, especially after the master's death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42371385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42371385", "title": "Political terror scale", "text": "Political terror scale\n\nPolitical Terror Scale is a yearly measure of state inflicted political terror. It was developed in the early 1980s by researchers at Purdue University and is currently managed by Mark Gibney of the University of North Carolina at Asheville.\n\nThe Political Terror Scale is a yearly measure of terror inflicted upon a population. \"Terror\" is defined as state terror, or violations of physical and personal integrity rights carried out by the state or its agents. Examples of political terror include extrajudicial killings, torture, disappearances, and political imprisonment.\n\nOriginally, only 59 countries were coded for within the database between 1976 and 1983. In 1984, Mark Gibney took over as manager of the database and expanded the list of countries coded to 180 and the range of years to the most recent years available (currently 2012).The Political Terror Scale uses three sources to code each country: The State Department's \"Country Reports on Human Rights Practices,\" the \"Annual Report\" from Amnesty International and most recently the \"World Report\" from Human Rights Watch.The database can be viewed and downloaded from its website.\n\nThe Political Terror Scale is a five-point fixed scale.\n\n\nThe scale is based on the assessment of violence along three dimensions:scope, intensity, and range. Scope is the type of violence carried out by the state, Intensity refers to the frequency at which the state employs a given type of violence, and Range is the portion of the population targeted for abuse (can also be thought of as the selectivity of violence).\n\nThe principle researchers consist of professors from several universities.\n\nCoding is also supplemented by undergraduate and graduate students from several universities. Research assistants for the 2012-2013 year are: Daniel Arnon, Gray Barrett, Minori Hinds, and Kelsey Tavares of the University of North Carolina at Asheville, Alexander Liffiton and Rachel Olson of Arizona State University, Max Scott of the London School of Economics, and Shea Streeter, a recent graduate of the University of Notre Dame.\n\nThe data for each country is analyzed by at least two senior coders and undergraduate assistants. Each nation receives two scores - one from the State Department's report and one from Amnesty International's report. Coders agree with each other regarding a country's score at a rate of roughly 85%. If coders cannot come to an agreement than a third coder will settle the dispute. Due to the contextual nature of the source data, coding is highly subjective, and coders are instructed to ignore their own personal biases or knowledge when determining a country's score. Coders are also instructed to give countries the benefit of any doubt when scoring. If a coder cannot decided between two numbers, they are instructed to use the lower number when scoring.\n\nThe Political Terror Scale only measures acts of political terror inflicted by the state. Due to this fact, it may be difficult to score countries when it is not immediately clear which groups are committing acts of violence. Colombia is a perfect example of this dilemma, as although overall violence has decreased since 2000, violence from local militias and paramilitary groups has continued at a relatively stable rate. Although the government has attempted to mitigate the violence, certain actors within the government have either allowed the violence to continue or contributed to it in some way. Therefore, Colombia's score reflects the close level of involvement between government and private actors.\n\nAnother challenge is that the Political Terror Scale only measures actual violations of physical or integrity rights or acts of violence and therefore countries ruled by truly repressive and coercive regimes may receive low scores. Nations who are successful at oppressing their citizens or who have committed acts of violence in the past to deter resistance generally do not have to commit many acts of violence in order to maintain control. For example, the former USSR would score low on the Political Terror Scale and that score would not reflect the overall level of oppression present in that society.\n\n"}
{"id": "9499590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9499590", "title": "Postnaturalism", "text": "Postnaturalism\n\nPostnaturalism is the theory of the postnatural, a term coined to describe organisms that have been intentionally and heritably altered by humans. Postnaturalism is a cultural process whereby organisms are bred to satisfy a specific cultural purpose. It can be used to read these organisms, which serve as insights into our culture by reflecting desires and beliefs prevalent at the time of breeding. This has direct implications for the evolutionary path of these organisms, whittling down undesirable traits to leave only those culturally sought out. Postnaturalism argues that in so doing, humans have and continue to actively alter the evolutionary path of a postnatural organism to suit our cultural desires. The agricultural practice of monoculture, for instance, is just one example of postnatural organisms who have been bred to such an extent that the modern-day species look nothing like their pre-neolithic counterparts. The breeding of these species for this purpose can be seen to be reflected in notable diet changes during this period, which proliferated during ensuing sedentism and urbanisation.\n\nPostnaturalism is a highly selective process. For every organism that has become used in our society, there are countless more that have remained non-postnatural for whatever reason ranging from a perceived lack of future use from them or traits that make them too difficult to farm. One such example is the golden orb-weaver spider which produces a strong, light and useful silk, however they are known to be cannibalistic and thus impossible to farm on a large scale.\n\nPostnatural history is defined as the \"study of the origins, habitats, and evolution of organisms that have been \"intentionally\" and \"heritably\" altered by humans\", which serves as a \"record of the influence of human culture on evolution\". So termed to differentiate it from traditional natural history studies, it is the subject of a storefront in Pittsburgh, United States called the Center for PostNatural History, which builds on this concept to produce an array of displays of organisms which are all postnatural.\n\nThe commencement of the postnatural can be considered to date back to prehistoric civilisation's early interaction with wild species. Here, domestication occurred as a way of adapting the environment around prehistoric people to suit their needs and desires through a gradual process of refinement. Domestication succeeds through the heritable continuation of an organism's phenotype and genotype allowing each generation to continue on from their previous generation. In its simplest terms, domestication alters a species through survival to a change in habitat, food source, or other significant change. These changes can be sought for a variety of different reasons including physical attributes, behavioural characteristics, lifespan, and adaptability to a change in environment.\n\nPostnatural practices include selective breeding, a process by which humans purposefully breed certain organisms for particular biological traits. The practice was known to the Romans, and has been commonly used continuing to this day. Michael Pollan argues that Charles Darwin saw this process and considered it artificial, rather than natural, selection, but in terms of evolutionary progress this distinction becomes irrelevant to the species; the change is irreversible all the same. This is simply because evolution is understood to be unable to 'undo' previous changes, but, particularly in proteins, continues along in a progression of its biological structure depending on what traits are required for survival.\n\nInduced mutation in the context of postnaturalism is the process whereby a specific genetic mutation - usually a rare occurrence - is selectively isolated by people and encouraged to reproduce in future offspring. This differs from the general understanding of a mutation that was induced by treatment from a particular chemical agent in a living species.\n\nA good example of this is the albino rat which possesses, in the wild a notoriously fatal genetic make-up making it much easier to identify to predators, a coat which drew interest in breeders so as to distinguish them from their more unhygienic-looking sewer counterparts prevalent in major cities in the 1800s. So numerous were rats in industrial cities, they became the subject of a sport based on their extermination, rat-baiting. The albino rat thus became distinguished from the regular unsightly sewer rat and even became sold as pets, the owning of one as a child allegedly the basis for Beatrix Potter's book \"Samuel Whiskers\".\n\nGenetic Engineering can be considered to be the purposeful alteration of the genetic makeup of an organism through the introduction of genes from sources not belonging to that organism. The isolation of a particular gene and introduction of another is often achieved through the use of biotechnology more broadly.\nGenetic engineering is a contentious topic and even in searching for a definition, there are several alternatives available highlighting the variation in perceptions around what is considered to be the goal and process of genetic engineering. However, genetic engineering embodies much of what is considered postnatural, but doing so with the next level of technology than used in previous methods such as those mentioned in the above sections. Increased use of advanced technology allows for improved precision and accuracy of methods, and carrying out of transgenics, whilst the use of laboratories as settings is designed to prevent the release of experimented organisms into the wild unless cleared with the relevant protocols and regulations beforehand.\n\nThe current agricultural practice of monoculture is intricately connected with postnaturalism, particularly now much of common contemporary agricultural practice has become mechanised. This mechanisation sometimes requires universality to comply with existing tools, machines and practices, such as the breeding of chickens to be a uniform size to ensure they fit into chicken harvesting machines. On other occasions rather than breed a particular species to a uniform size, some parts of organisms have been so heavily bred and altered that dystocia can regularly occur, such as with the Belgian Blue cattle whose birth canal regularly becomes constricted or even entirely blocked due to the birth canal's reduced size and the increased size of calves. The result is the routine scheduling of Caesarian sections.\n"}
{"id": "42901272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42901272", "title": "Protulophila", "text": "Protulophila\n\nProtulophila is a genus of symbiotic or commensal colonial Hydrozoa, known from very small hydroids. These marine hydroids live in the shelly tubes of serpulid tube worms, which are annelids.\n\nThe genus \"Protulophila\" was named by Rovereto in 1901, from fossil material. For many years scientists knew these animals only from fossils, and the genus was thought to have become extinct about four million years ago. However, in 2014, animals of this genus were discovered within National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research (NIWA) museum material that had been live-collected in New Zealand in 2008. \"Protulophila\" can be regarded as a living fossil.\n\nFossil remains of \"Protulophila\" were previously known only from marine deposits in Europe and the Middle East, deposits that date from about 150 million years ago to 4 million years ago, when the genus was thought to have become extinct. In 2014, fossils of the genus that were less than one million-years-old were found in Whanganui, New Zealand by NIWA scientists. The scientist then wondered if perhaps the genus might still be extant in New Zealand. A search of NIWA's invertebrate collection during 2014 revealed specimens of \"Protulophila\" in preserved material of serpulid tube worms which had been live-collected in 2008, in 20 m of water in Queen Charlotte Sound, near Picton, New Zealand. The scientists, led by marine biologist Dr. Dennis Gordon, are planning to collect some fresh material so that gene sequencing can be carried out.\n\nColonial Hydrozoa usually have two very different life stages. All the material that has so far been found of \"Protulophila\" is the hydroid or polypoid stage of the organism, a stage in which individual polyps are connected together in a colony. It is likely that there is also a medusoid (small pelagic jellyfish-like) stage, but the medusoid stage in this genus is currently either unknown, or may possibly have been named but has not yet been recognized as being the same organism as the hydroid stage. As Dr. Gordon commented: \"Many hydroid species have a two-stage life cycle and often the two stages have never been matched. Our discovery may thus mean that we are solving two puzzles at once.”\n\nNamed species within the genus \"Protulophila\" include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12768045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12768045", "title": "Public execution in Dębica", "text": "Public execution in Dębica\n\nA public execution in Dębica was carried out in 1946 when three members of the Polish anti-communist Freedom and Independence (WiN) organization were publicly executed by the communist Polish authorities in the market square of Dębica in southeastern Poland.\n\nOn August 23, 1944 German soldiers left the town of Dębica, and the Red Army units captured it. However, the frontline remained on the Wisłoka river for a few months, until the beginning of 1945. Wehrmacht artillery shelled Dębica, soldiers of the Armia Krajowa, cooperating with the Soviets, fought the enemy. After some time the Nazis were relentlessly pushed to the west and left their positions and the whole area of Dębica County was in Soviet hands.\n\nHowever, Soviet advance was regarded by many as yet another occupation. Behavior of some Red Army units and the NKVD confirmed this notion - they persecuted Polish patriots, arrested and imprisoned them. Thousands of members of the Home Army were either shot or sent to Siberia. Under the circumstances, several members of the resistance movement decided to hide in the forests and to continue struggle for free Poland. After dissolution of the Home Army, a new organization, Freedom and Independence (\"Wolność i Niezawisłość\" - WiN) was created in mid-1945.\n\nWiN was an anti-Communist organization, whose purpose was to rid Poland of Soviet occupiers. Among numerous units across the country, one was a group led by Jan Stefko (aka \"Mściciel\" - \"The Avenger\"). In the spring of 1946 Stefko's unit, with some 30 members, was staying in the area of Sędziszów Małopolski. There, an exchange of fire occurred between them and agents of the Communist secret services from the Ministry of Public Security (MBP).\n\nAfter this incident, the group moved towards Mielec, where in the village of Przecław it attacked Communist forces which were staying at a palace of the Rey family, which had been nationalized. WiN members faced no resistance, they took jewelry and some paintings and left.\n\nOn the way towards Jasło, the unit was caught in a trap set by soldiers of the Polish Army, militiamen and agents of UB. Four persons were killed, 16 captured and 10 managed to flee, together with Jan Stefko. The caught WiN members were charged and three of them were sentenced to death.\n\nOn Wednesday, July 10, 1946, Dębica's main square was full of people, as this was the market day. Two gallows were set - one in the square, another in the vicinity of the St. Jadwiga church. The purpose of the execution was obvious - to intimidate the population of the town.\n\nIt is difficult to establish how many people witnessed the event. At some point a truck entered the square, carrying three young men, members of WiN. The hangman, whose name probably was Stanisław Swieca, haltered all of them and soon afterward the truck drove off, leaving the condemned in the air.\n\nThe square was surrounded by the Communist agents who checked everything, making sure the execution was carried out without any obstacles. However, some witnesses claim that the head of one of the condemned men got out of the halter, but this was quickly fixed. Deaths were announced by doctor Roman Lic and Marian Stoklosa from Rzeszów prosecutor's office. None of the killed had a trial, they were only allowed to confess to a priest.\n\nMost probably, the whole incident would have been forgotten, had it not been for a photograph, taken by Józef Stec. The snapshot was taken from a window of a building, delivered to London and published in several newspapers in the West. Stec was quickly captured and imprisoned, he spent many years behind bars.\n\n"}
{"id": "171653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171653", "title": "Raoul Wallenberg", "text": "Raoul Wallenberg\n\nRaoul Gustaf Wallenberg (4 August 1912 – disappeared 17 January 1945) was a Swedish architect, businessman, diplomat, and humanitarian. He is remembered for saving tens of thousands of Jews in Nazi-occupied Hungary during the Holocaust from German Nazis and Hungarian Fascists during the later stages of World War II. While serving as Sweden's special envoy in Budapest between July and December 1944, Wallenberg issued protective passports and sheltered Jews in buildings designated as Swedish territory.\n\nOn 17 January 1945, during the Siege of Budapest by the Red Army, Wallenberg was detained by SMERSH on suspicion of espionage and subsequently disappeared. He was later reported to have died on 17 July 1947 while imprisoned by the KGB secret police in the Lubyanka, the KGB headquarters and affiliated prison in Moscow. The motives behind Wallenberg's arrest and imprisonment by the Soviet government, along with questions surrounding the circumstances of his death and his ties to US intelligence, remain mysterious and are the subject of continued speculation.\n\nBecause of attempts to save Hungarian Jews, Raoul Wallenberg has been the subject of numerous humanitarian honours in the decades following his presumed death. In 1981, US Congressman Tom Lantos, one of those saved by Wallenberg, sponsored a bill making Wallenberg an honorary citizen of the United States, the second person ever to receive this honour. Wallenberg is also an honorary citizen of Canada, Hungary, Australia, and Israel. Israel has designated Wallenberg one of the Righteous Among the Nations. Numerous monuments have been dedicated to him, and streets have been named after him throughout the world. The Raoul Wallenberg Committee of the United States was created in 1981 to \"perpetuate the humanitarian ideals and the nonviolent courage of Raoul Wallenberg.\" It gives the Raoul Wallenberg Award annually to recognize persons who carry out those goals. He was awarded a Congressional Gold Medal by the United States Congress \"in recognition of his achievements and heroic actions during the Holocaust.\"\n\nWallenberg was born in 1912 in Lidingö, near Stockholm, where his maternal grandparents, Professor Per Johan Wising and his wife Sophie Wising, had built a summer house in 1882. His paternal grandfather, Gustaf Wallenberg, was a diplomat and envoy to Tokyo, Istanbul, and Sofia.\n\nHis parents, who married in 1911, were Raoul Oscar Wallenberg (1888–1912), a Swedish naval officer, and Maria \"Maj\" Sofia Wising (1891–1979). His father died of cancer three months before he was born, and his maternal grandfather died of pneumonia three months after his birth. His mother and grandmother, now both suddenly widows, raised him together. In 1918, his mother married Fredric von Dardel; they had a son, Guy von Dardel, and a daughter, Nina Lagergren.\n\nAfter high school and his compulsory eight months in the Swedish military, Wallenberg's paternal grandfather sent him to study in Paris. He spent one year there, and then, in 1931, he matriculated at the University of Michigan in the United States to study architecture. Although the Wallenberg family was rich, he worked at odd jobs in his free time and joined other young male students as a passenger rickshaw handler at Chicago's Century of Progress. He used his vacations to explore the United States, with hitchhiking being his preferred method of travel. About his experiences, he wrote to his grandfather saying, \"When you travel like a hobo, everything's different. You have to be on the alert the whole time. You're in close contact with new people every day. Hitchhiking gives you training in diplomacy and tact.\"\nWallenberg was aware of his one-sixteenth Jewish ancestry, and proud of it. It came from his great-great-grandfather (his maternal grandmother's grandfather) Michael Benedicks, who immigrated to Stockholm in 1780. Professor Ingemar Hedenius (one of the leading Swedish philosophers) recalls a conversation with Raoul dating back to 1930, when they were together in an army hospital during military service:\n\nHe graduated from university in 1935, but upon his return to Sweden, he found his American degree did not qualify him to practice as an architect. Later that year, his grandfather arranged a job for him in Cape Town, South Africa, in the office of a Swedish company that sold construction material. After six months in South Africa, he took a new job at a branch office of the Holland Bank in Haifa. He returned to Sweden in 1936, securing a job in Stockholm with the help of his uncle and godfather, Jacob Wallenberg, at the Central European Trading Company, an export-import company trading between Stockholm and central Europe, owned by Kálmán Lauer, a Hungarian Jew.\n\nBeginning in 1938, the Kingdom of Hungary, under the regency of Miklós Horthy, passed a series of anti-Jewish measures modeled on the so-called Nuremberg Race Laws enacted in Germany by the Nazis in 1935. Like their German counterparts, the Hungarian laws focused heavily on restricting Jews from certain professions, reducing the number of Jews in government and public service jobs, and prohibiting intermarriage. Because of this, Wallenberg's business associate, Kálmán Lauer, found it increasingly difficult to travel to his native Hungary, which was moving still deeper into the German orbit, becoming a member of the Axis powers in November 1940 and later joining the Nazi-led invasion of the Soviet Union in June 1941. Out of necessity Wallenberg became Lauer's personal representative, traveling to Hungary to conduct business on Lauer's behalf and also to look in on members of Lauer's extended family who remained in Budapest. He soon learned to speak Hungarian, and from 1941 made increasingly frequent travels to Budapest. Within a year, Wallenberg was a joint owner and the International Director of the company. In this capacity Wallenberg also made several business trips to Germany and Occupied-France during the early years of World War II. It was during these trips that Wallenberg was able to closely observe the Nazis' bureaucratic and administrative methods, knowledge which would prove valuable to him later.\n\nMeanwhile, the situation in Hungary had begun to deteriorate as the tide of the war began to turn decisively against Germany and its allies. Following the catastrophic Axis defeat at the Battle of Stalingrad (in which Hungarian troops fighting alongside German forces suffered a staggering 84% casualty rate) the regime of Miklos Horthy began secretly pursuing peace talks with the United States and the United Kingdom. Upon learning of Horthy's duplicity, Adolf Hitler ordered the occupation of Hungary by German troops in March 1944. The Wehrmacht quickly took control of the country and placed Horthy under house arrest. A pro-German puppet government was installed in Budapest, with actual power resting with the German military governor, SS-Brigadeführer Edmund Veesenmayer. With the Nazis now in control, the relative security from the Holocaust enjoyed by the Jews of Hungary came to an end. In April and May 1944 the Nazi regime and its accomplices began the mass deportation of Hungary's Jews to extermination camps in Nazi-occupied Poland. Under the personal leadership of SS-Obersturmbannführer Adolf Eichmann, who would later be tried and hanged in Israel for his major role in the implementation of the Nazis' Final Solution, deportations took place at a rate of 12,000 people per day.\n\nThe persecution of the Jews in Hungary soon became well known abroad, unlike the full extent of the Holocaust. At the end of May 1944, George Mantello publicized two important reports. One of the reports was probably Rabbi Chaim Michael Dov Weissmandl's five-page abridged version of the 33-page Auschwitz Protocols: both the Vrba–Wetzler report and Rosin-Mordowicz report. The reports described in detail the operations of the Auschwitz-Birkenau extermination camp. The second was a 6-page Hungarian report, that detailed the ghettoization and deportation of 435,000 Hungarian Jews, as updated to 19 June 1944, by towns, to Auschwitz. The report's publication resulted in Winston Churchill's letter: \"There is no doubt that this persecution of Jews in Hungary and their expulsion from enemy territory is probably the greatest and most horrible crime ever committed in the whole history of the world...\"\n\nFollowing the report's publication, the administration of US President Franklin D. Roosevelt turned to the newly created War Refugee Board (WRB) established as a result of activism by the \"Bergson Group\" led by Hillel Kook and later by Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau, Jr and team in search of a solution to the humanitarian crisis in Hungary. In spring 1944, President Roosevelt dispatched US Treasury Department official Iver C. Olsen to Stockholm as a representative of the WRB. Olsen was tasked specifically by the President with finding a way to aid the Hungarian Jews. This, however, was not the sole reason for Olsen being posted to Sweden. In addition to his duties with the WRB, Olsen was also secretly functioning as the chief of currency operations for the Stockholm branch of the Office of Strategic Services (OSS), the United States' wartime espionage service.\n\nIn search of someone willing and able to go to Budapest to organize a rescue program for the nation's Jews, Olsen established contact with a relief committee composed of many prominent Swedish Jews led by the Swedish Chief Rabbi Marcus Ehrenpreis to locate an appropriate person to travel to Budapest under diplomatic cover and lead the rescue operation. One member of the committee was Wallenberg's business associate Kalman Lauer.\n\nThe committee's first choice to lead the mission was Count Folke Bernadotte, the vice-chairman of the Swedish Red Cross and a member of the Swedish Royal Family. When Bernadotte's proposed appointment was rejected by the Hungarians, Lauer suggested Wallenberg as a potential replacement. Olsen was introduced to Wallenberg by Lauer in June 1944 and came away from the meeting impressed and, shortly thereafter, appointed Wallenberg to lead the mission. Olsen's selection of Wallenberg met with objections from some US officials who doubted his reliability, in light of existing commercial relationships between businesses owned by the Wallenberg family and the German government. These differences were eventually overcome and the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs agreed to the American request to assign Wallenberg to its legation in Budapest as part of an arrangement in which Wallenberg's appointment was granted in exchange for a lessening of American diplomatic pressure on neutral Sweden to curtail their nation's free-trade policies toward Germany.\nWhen Wallenberg reached the Swedish legation in Budapest in July 1944, the campaign against the Jews of Hungary had already been under way for several months. Between May and July 1944, Eichmann and his associates had deported over 400,000 Jews by freight train. Of those deported all but 15,000 were sent directly to the German Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp in southern Poland. By the time of Wallenberg's arrival there were only 230,000 Jews remaining in Hungary. With fellow Swedish diplomat Per Anger, he issued \"protective passports\" (German: \"Schutz-Pass\"), which identified the bearers as Swedish subjects awaiting repatriation and thus prevented their deportation. Although not legal, these documents looked official and were generally accepted by German and Hungarian authorities, who sometimes were also bribed. The Swedish legation in Budapest also succeeded in negotiating with the German authorities so that the bearers of the protective passes would be treated as Swedish citizens and be exempt from having to wear the yellow badge required for Jews. When the German government said the travel passes were invalid, Wallenberg appealed for help from Baroness Elisabeth Kemény, wife of Baron Gábor Kemény, Hungarian Minister for Foreign Affairs in Budapest. She convinced her husband to have 9,000 passes honoured.\n\nWith the money raised by the board, Wallenberg rented 32 buildings in Budapest and declared them to be extraterritorial, protected by diplomatic immunity. He put up signs such as \"The Swedish Library\" and \"The Swedish Research Institute\" on their doors and hung oversized Swedish flags on the front of the buildings to bolster the deception. The buildings eventually housed almost 10,000 people.\n\nSandor Ardai, one of the drivers working for Wallenberg, recounted what Wallenberg did when he intercepted a trainload of Jews about to leave for Auschwitz:\n\nAt the height of the program, over 350 people were involved in the rescue of Jews. Sister Sára Salkaházi was caught sheltering Jewish women and was killed by members of the Arrow Cross Party. Swiss diplomat Carl Lutz also issued protective passports from the Swiss embassy in the spring of 1944; and Italian businessman Giorgio Perlasca posed as a Spanish diplomat and issued forged visas. Portuguese diplomats Sampaio Garrido and Carlos de Liz-Texeira Branquinho rented houses and apartments to shelter and protect refugees from deportation and murder and issued safe conducts to approximately 1,000 Hungarian Jews. Berber Smit (Barbara Hogg), the daughter of Lolle Smit (1892–1961), director of N.V. Philips Budapest and a Dutch spy working for the British MI6, later claimed to have been his girlfriend, also assisted Wallenberg, as did her son. However, she was temporarily engaged to Wallenberg's colleague Lars Berg, and later married a Scottish officer; which has not dispelled claims that Wallenberg was homosexual.\n\nWallenberg started sleeping in a different house each night, to guard against being captured or killed by Arrow Cross Party members or by Adolf Eichmann's men. Two days before the Soviet Army occupied Budapest, Wallenberg negotiated with Eichmann and with Major-General Gerhard Schmidthuber, the supreme commander of German forces in Hungary. Wallenberg bribed Arrow Cross Party member Pál Szalai to deliver a note in which Wallenberg persuaded the occupying Germans to prevent a Fascist plan to blow up the Budapest ghetto and kill an estimated 70,000 Jews. The note also persuaded the Germans to cancel a final effort to organize a death march of the remaining Jews in Budapest by threatening to have them prosecuted for war crimes once the war was over.\n\nAccording to Giorgio Perlasca, who posed as the Spanish consul-general to Hungary in the winter of 1944 and saved 5218 Jews, Pál Szalai lied to save his life during his criminal trial, and the history of the saving is different. Raoul Wallenberg (who was already dead at the time of the Szalai's deposition) saved hundreds of people but was not directly involved in the plan to save the ghetto. While Perlasca was posing as the Spanish consul-general, he learned of the intention to burn down the ghetto. Shocked and incredulous, he asked for a direct hearing with the Hungarian interior minister Gábor Vajna, in the basement of the Budapest City Hall where he had his headquarter, and threatened legal and economic measures against the \"3000 Hungarian citizens\" (in fact, a much smaller number) declared by Perlasca as residents of Spain, and similar treatment to Hungarian residents in two Latin American republics, to force the minister to withdraw the project. This actually happened in the following days.\n\nPeople saved by Wallenberg include biochemist Lars Ernster, who was housed in the Swedish embassy, and Tom Lantos, later a member of the United States House of Representatives, who lived in one of the Swedish protective houses.\n\nThe Swedish consulate building still exists(2018), on the hill behind the Gellert Hotel, with a reference to Wallenberg at the front.\n\nOn 29 October 1944, elements of the 2nd Ukrainian Front under Marshal Rodion Malinovsky launched an offensive against Budapest and by late December the city had been encircled by Soviet forces. Despite this the German commander of Budapest, SS Lieutenant General Karl Pfeffer-Wildenbruch, refused all offers to surrender, setting in motion a protracted and bloody siege of Budapest. At the height of the fighting, on 17 January 1945, Wallenberg was called to General Malinovsky's headquarters in Debrecen to answer allegations that he was engaged in espionage. Wallenberg's last recorded words were, \"I'm going to Malinovsky's ... whether as a guest or prisoner I do not know yet.\" Documents recovered in 1993 from previously secret Soviet military archives and published in the Swedish newspaper \"Svenska Dagbladet\" show that an order for Wallenberg's arrest was issued by Deputy Commissar for Defence (and future Soviet Premier) Nikolai Bulganin and transmitted to Malinovsky's headquarters on the day of Wallenberg's disappearance. In 2003, a review of Soviet wartime correspondences indicated that Vilmos Böhm, a Hungarian politician who was also a Soviet intelligence agent, may have provided Wallenberg's name to the SMERSH as a person to detain for possible involvement in espionage.\n\nInformation about Wallenberg after his detention is mostly speculative; there were many witnesses who claim to have met him during his imprisonment. Wallenberg was transported by train from Debrecen, through Romania, to Moscow. The Soviet authorities may have moved him to Moscow in the hope of exchanging him for defectors in Sweden. Vladimir Dekanozov notified the Swedish government on 16 January 1945 that Wallenberg was under the protection of Soviet authorities. On 21 January 1945, Wallenberg was transferred to Lubyanka prison and held in cell 123 with fellow prisoner Gustav Richter, who had been a police attaché at the German embassy in Romania. Richter testified in Sweden in 1955 that Wallenberg was interrogated once for about an hour and a half, in early February 1945. On 1 March 1945, Richter was moved from his cell and never saw Wallenberg again.\n\nOn 8 March 1945, Soviet-controlled Hungarian radio announced that Wallenberg and his driver had been murdered on their way to Debrecen, suggesting that they had been killed by the Arrow Cross Party or the Gestapo. Sweden's foreign minister, Östen Undén, and its ambassador to the Soviet Union, Staffan Söderblom, wrongly assumed that they were dead. In April 1945, W. Averell Harriman, then of the US State Department, offered the Swedish government help in inquiring about Wallenberg's fate, but the offer was declined. Söderblom met with Vyacheslav Molotov and Stalin in Moscow on 15 June 1946. Söderblom, still believing Wallenberg to be dead, ignored talk of an exchange for Russian defectors in Sweden.\n\nOn 6 February 1957, the Soviet government released a document dated 17 July 1947, which stated \"I report that the prisoner Wallenberg who is well-known to you, died suddenly in his cell this night, probably as a result of a heart attack or heart failure. Pursuant to the instructions given by you that I personally have Wallenberg under my care, I request approval to make an autopsy with a view to establishing cause of death... I have personally notified the minister and it has been ordered that the body be cremated without autopsy.\" The document was signed by Smoltsov, then the head of the Lubyanka prison infirmary, and addressed to Viktor Abakumov, the Soviet minister of state security. In 1989, Wallenberg's personal belongings were returned to his family, including his passport and cigarette case. Soviet officials said they found the materials when they were upgrading the shelves in a store room.\n\nIn 1991, Vyacheslav Nikonov was charged by the Russian government with investigating Wallenberg's fate. He concluded that Wallenberg died in 1947, executed while a prisoner in Lubyanka. He may have been a victim of the C-2 poison (carbylamine-choline-chloride) tested at the poison laboratory of the Soviet secret services.\n\nIn Moscow in 2000, Alexander Nikolaevich Yakovlev announced that Wallenberg had been executed in 1947 in Lubyanka prison. He claimed that Vladimir Kryuchkov, the former Soviet secret police chief, told him about the shooting in a private conversation. The statement did not explain why Wallenberg was killed or why the government had lied about it. General Pavel Sudoplatov claimed that Raoul Wallenberg died after being poisoned by Grigory Mairanovsky, a notorious NKVD assassin. In 2000, Russian prosecutor Vladimir Ustinov signed a verdict posthumously rehabilitating Wallenberg and his driver, Langfelder, as \"victims of political repression\". A number of files pertinent to Wallenberg were turned over to the chief rabbi of Russia by the Russian government in September 2007. The items were slated to be housed at the Jewish Museum and Tolerance Center in Moscow, which opened in 2012.\n\nIn August 2016, new information about Wallenberg's death came to light when the diary of KGB head Ivan Serov surfaced after Serov's granddaughter found the diary hidden in a wall of her house. \"I have no doubts that Wallenberg was liquidated in 1947\" Serov wrote.\n\nSeveral former prisoners have claimed to have seen Wallenberg after his reported death in 1947. In February 1949, former German Colonel Theodor von Dufving, a prisoner of war, provided statements concerning Wallenberg. While in the transit camp in Kirov, while being moved to Vorkuta, Dufving encountered a prisoner dressed in civilian clothes with his own special guard. The prisoner claimed that he was a Swedish diplomat and said he was there \"through a great error\".\n\nNazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal searched for Wallenberg and collected several testimonies. For example, British businessman Greville Wynne, who was imprisoned in the Lubyanka prison in 1962 for his connection to KGB defector Oleg Penkovsky, stated that he had talked to, but could not see the face of, a man who claimed to be a Swedish diplomat. Efim (or Yefim) Moshinsky claims to have seen Wallenberg on Wrangel Island in 1962. An eyewitness asserted that she had seen Wallenberg in the 1960s in a Soviet prison.\n\nDuring a private conversation about the conditions of detention in Soviet prisons at a Communist Party reception in the mid-1970s, a KGB general is reported to have said that \"conditions could not be that harsh, given that in Lubyanka prison there is some foreign prisoner who had been there now for almost three decades.\"\n\nThe last reported sightings of Wallenberg were by two independent witnesses who said they had evidence that he was in a prison in November 1987. John Farkas was a resistance fighter during World War II and was the last man claiming to have seen Wallenberg alive. Farkas' son has stated that there have been sightings of Wallenberg \"up into the 1980s in Russian prisons and psychiatric hospitals.\"\n\nRaoul Wallenberg's half-brother, Guy von Dardel, a well-known physicist, retired from CERN, was dedicated to finding out his half-brother's fate. He traveled to the Soviet Union about fifty times for discussions and research, including an examination of the Vladimir prison records. Over the years, Professor von Dardel compiled a 50,000-page archive of interviews, journal articles, letters, and other documents related to his quest. In 1991, Dardel initiated a Swedish-Russian working group to search eleven separate military and government archives from the former Soviet Union for information about Wallenberg's fate, but the group was not able to find conclusive information. Many, including Professor von Dardel and his daughters, Louise and Marie, do not accept the various versions of Wallenberg's death. They continue to request that the archives in Russia, Sweden, and Hungary be opened to impartial researchers.\n\nIn 2012, Russian lieutenant-general Vasily Khristoforov, head of the registration branch of the Russian Federal Security Service, said that the Wallenberg case was still open. He dismissed allegations of a continuing cover-up; referring to the legacy Soviet agency from which his department sprang, Khristoforov said: \"This is another state and a different special service.\"\n\nOn 29 March 2016, an announcement was made by the Swedish Tax Agency that a petition to have Wallenberg declared dead \"in absentia\" had been submitted. It stated that if he does not report to the Tax Agency before 14 October 2016, he will be declared dead legally: \"\"Raoul Wallenberg kallas jämlikt 7 § (2005:130) om dödförklaring att senast den 14 oktober 2016 anmäla sig hos Skatteverket\".\"\n\nWallenberg was declared dead in October 2016. Consistently with the approach used in cases where the circumstances of death were not known, the Swedish tax agency recorded the date of his death as 31 July 1952, five years after he went missing.\n\nIn May 1996, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) released thousands of previously classified documents regarding Raoul Wallenberg, in response to requests filed under the Freedom of Information Act. The documents, along with an investigation conducted by the newsmagazine \"US News and World Report\", appeared to confirm the long-held suspicion that Wallenberg was an American intelligence asset during his time in Hungary. In addition to Wallenberg's name appearing on a roster found in the National Archives which listed the names of operatives associated with the CIA's wartime predecessor, the Office of Strategic Services (OSS), the documents also included a 1954 memo from an anonymous CIA source that identified a Hungarian-exile living in Stockholm who, according to the author: \"assisted…in inserting Roul Wallenberg into Hungary during WWII as an agent of OSS.\" Another declassified memorandum written in 1990 by the curator of the CIA's Historical Intelligence Collection William Henhoeffer, characterized the conclusion that Wallenberg was working for the OSS while in Budapest as being \"essentially correct\".\n\nMore telling was a communique sent on 7 November 1944 by the OSS, Secret Intelligence Branch in Bari, Italy, which apparently acknowledged that Wallenberg was acting as an unofficial liaison between the OSS and the Hungarian Independence Movement (MFM), an underground anti-Nazi resistance organization. The OSS message notes Wallenberg's contacts with Geza Soos, a high-ranking MFM leader and further explains that Soos \"may only be contacted\" through the Swedish legation in Budapest, which was Wallenberg's workplace and also served as the operational center for his attempts to aid the Hungarian Jews. The same message's assertion that Wallenberg \"will know if he (Soos) is not in Budapest\" is also curious, in that by November 1944 Soos was in hiding and knowledge of his whereabouts would only have been available to individuals closely involved with the MFM. This conclusion is given further weight by additional evidence suggesting that communications from the MFM to US intelligence were transmitted first to Stockholm and then relayed to Washington via Iver C. Olsen, the American OSS operative who initially recruited Wallenberg to go to Budapest in June 1944.\n\nThis particular disclosure has given rise to speculation as to whether, in addition to his efforts to rescue the Hungarian Jews, Wallenberg may have also been pursuing a parallel clandestine mission aimed at politically destabilizing Hungary's pro-Nazi government on behalf of the OSS. This would also seem to add some credence to the potential explanation that it was his association with US intelligence that led to Wallenberg being targeted by Soviet authorities in January 1945. Several other humanitarians who had helped refugees during World War II disappeared behind the Iron Curtain in the period 1949/50, several years after Wallenberg's disappearance. OSS ties may have been of interest to the Soviets, but are not a complete explanation because some of those detained, i.e. Hermann Field and Herta Field, had not worked for the OSS. All of these humanitarians, however, like Wallenberg, had interacted with a large number of anti-fascist and socialist refugees during the War, and this experience was used in the Stalin regime's factional politics and show trials.\n\nIn 2009, reporter Joshua Prager wrote an article in the \"Wall Street Journal\" profiling the long-term toll that Raoul Wallenberg's disappearance had on his family. His mother, Maj, and his stepfather, Fredrik von Dardel, spent the rest of their lives searching for their son. They both committed suicide by overdosing on pills two days apart in 1979. Their daughter, Nina Lagergren, Raoul's half-sister, attributed their suicide to their despair about never finding their son. Lagergren and Raoul's half-brother Guy von Dardel established organizations and worked to find their brother or confirmation of his death. At the request of their parents, they were to assume he was alive until the year 2000.\n\nDuring the war, the Wallenberg bank, Stockholms Enskilda Bank, collaborated with the German government. The Secretary of the US Treasury, Henry Morgenthau Jr. considered Jacob Wallenberg strongly pro-German, and in 1945, the US Federal Bureau of Investigation subjected the Bank to a blockade from engaging in business in the United States that was only lifted in 1947. Author Alan Lelchuk who interviewed, amongst others, Wallenberg's KGB interrogator, has speculated that the more powerful of the family may have chosen not to use their influence to locate Raoul as it could have drawn attention to their misdeeds, and they may have considered him an embarrassment, not only for being a man of morality, but his possible homosexuality.\n\nNina's daughter, Nane Maria Lagergren, married Kofi Annan, former secretary general of the United Nations, and is active in many humanitarian efforts. Another of Wallenberg's nieces, Louise von Dardel, is the main activist in the family and dedicates much of her time to speaking about Wallenberg and lobbying various countries to help uncover information about her uncle. The extended Wallenberg family remains an influential part of Swedish society as major shareholders in banks and corporations including Saab and Scandinavian Airlines.\nIn a 2004 paper, Hungarian historian and Holocaust survivor Randolph L. Braham discussed the mythologizing of Wallenberg's rescue activities. Braham notes that Wallenberg's rescue activities did not start in earnest until the Arrow Cross coup in October 1944, and reached their greatest proportions during the siege. He found that through personal heroism and diplomatic support, Wallenberg managed to save about 7,000 to 9,000 Jews. Hovever, during the Cold War, his death was exploited in Western anti-Soviet propaganda; in order to make the \"Soviet crime\" seem worse, his rescue operations were greatly exaggerated. Wallenberg was incorrectly identified as the savior of all Jews in Budapest, or at least 100,000 of them, in official statements as well as many popular books and documentaries. As a result, the rescue efforts of other agents in Budapest has been marginalized or ignored.\n\nIsraeli historian Yehuda Bauer, who puts the number of lives saved by Wallenberg at 4,500, states Lutz and other neutral emissaries saved more Jews, but Wallenberg was the only one who frequently confronted the Nazis and their Arrow Cross accomplices. Although \"fact and fiction mixed\" in the testimony of Jewish survivors about Wallenberg after the war, Bauer writes, Wallenberg's \"fame was certainly justified by his extroadinary exploits\". Bauer also points out that the focus on heroic actions taken by Wallenberg and other non-Jewish rescuers obscures the heroism of Jews who also carried out rescue actions in Budapest in the final months and were forgotten after liberation. According to Bauer, Wallenberg had a modest personality and \"would have been the first\" to reject fictionalized anecdotes and exaggerated totals.\n\nA considerable amount of honour and memorials have been dedicated to the memory of Wallenberg.\n\nA number of films have been made of Wallenberg's life, including the 1985 made-for-television movie \"\" (1985), starring Richard Chamberlain, the 1990 Swedish production \"Good Evening, Mr. Wallenberg\", featuring Stellan Skarsgård, and various documentaries, such as \"Raoul Wallenberg: Buried Alive\" (1984), the AFI Award-winning \"Raoul Wallenberg, Between The Lines\" (1985) and \"Searching for Wallenberg\" (2003). He also appears in the Spanish television series \"El ángel de Budapest\" and is played by Iván Fenyő. In 2006, the film \"Raoul Wallenberg-l'ange de Budapest\" (translated by Nigel Spencer as \"Raoul Wallenberg: the Angel of Budapest\"), featuring relatives and the Winnipeg lawyer still piloting inquiries into his case, was released in Canada and broadcast on the Bravo! network.\n\nHe is featured prominently in the work of painter and Holocaust survivor Alice Lok Cahana. Her father was saved by Wallenberg.\n\n\nIrish musician Andy Irvine wrote the song \"Raoul Wallenberg\" which features on his album \"Rude Awakening\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51004375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51004375", "title": "Rudolf Brinkmann", "text": "Rudolf Brinkmann\n\nRudolf Brinkmann (born 28 August 1893 in Greene; died nach 1973) was a German economist and Secretary of State in the time of Nazism.\n\nAfter he had finished school, Brinkmann studied legal science and economics. After the outbreak of the first World War he joined German army and served as an artillerist. 1916 he left the army because of an injury. He moved to banks and worked since 1919 in Göttingen for the Reichsbank. 1923 he overtook the guidance of intern revision of the Reichsbank in Berlin and worked later in the directory. Afterwards he was member of board of ReichsbankHamburg. 1931 he became director of the Reichsbank in Aschaffenburg.\n\nAfter the transfer of power to the Nazis he was in spring of 1933, board member at the German Golddiskontbank and 1937 at the Reichsbank\n\nIn Ministry of Economic Affairs Brinkmann in 1934 initially was working under the new Minister Hjalmar Schacht as a general officer and was promoted there in 1938 to the State Council. In early February 1938, he was appointed the Reich Economics Ministry State Secretary. From 1938 to 1939 he was also on the board of the Hermann Göring Reichswerke. From January 1939 Brinkmann was briefly vice president of the Reichsbank (. SS No. 308 241) and received in November 1938 to the rank of Oberführer Whether he became in 1939 a member of NSDAP is unsecure. Brinkmann was a board member of the VEW and Bank for International Settlements.\n\nMid February 1939 Brinkmann was on leave due to illness and placed into pending status. In May 1939, due to the duration of his illness, Brinkmann was evidently acute manic-depressive illness, what has been described as \"severe nervous breakdown\" he was then admitted to a mental hospital in Bonn, where he remained until the end of World War II in a closed hospital. As State Secretary in the Ministry of Economics followed him afterFriedrich Landfriedstraße and as vice president of the Reichsbank Emil Puhl.\n"}
{"id": "7885455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7885455", "title": "Shep (British dog)", "text": "Shep (British dog)\n\nShep (1 May 1971 – 17 January 1987) was a famous \"Blue Peter\" dog, a border collie. Shep was bought by the BBC to replace Patch, one of Petra's puppies, born in 1965. He became the main Blue Peter dog when Petra died in 1977.\n\nShep is remembered by British TV viewers as inseparable from \"Blue Peter\" presenter John Noakes. Shep was excitable, and Noakes would often have to restrain him. Noakes' common refrain, \"Get down, Shep!\", became a catchphrase, and The Barron Knights released a song with that title. Shep left \"Blue Peter\" when Noakes departed in June 1978.\n\nShep also appeared with Noakes in six series of \"Go With Noakes\", from 1976 to 1980. Noakes left \"Blue Peter\" on 26 June 1978. and the BBC offered to let him keep Shep, as the dog had lived with him since his TV debut. Despite Shep living with Noakes, the dog was always legally owned by the BBC and in rules that also applied to himself whilst under contract to the BBC, he could not use Shep for advertising or commercial purposes. Noakes was paid a stipend to cover all Shep's costs from the \"Blue Peter\" budget (as was Peter Purves for 'Petra' and later Simon Groom for 'Goldie') and as part of the agreement to keep Shep after leaving the show, Noakes agreed to continuing the no-advertising condition.\n\nHowever, shortly after leaving the show, Noakes was furious to discover that what he called his \"dog money\" ceased to be paid and he confronted Biddy Baxter in a phone call. Baxter was adamant that since Shep had left \"Blue Peter\", the programme should no longer be responsible for any of Shep's costs, although she did sympathise with some of his argument and felt that the BBC should pay Noakes for Shep to appear in \"Go With Noakes\" or for 'personal appearances' the dog made. Regardless, she later wrote that Noakes was too angry to discuss the matter and the two rarely spoke again. Soon after this angry confrontation, Noakes relinquished Shep, who went to live with Edith Menzies.\n\nNoakes subsequently appeared in a series of television advertisements for Spillers \"Choice Cuts\" dog food, using a dog that was indistinguishable from Shep but named Skip. The clear subterfuge led to a deeper rift between him and Baxter. Noakes called her a \"stupid woman\" in a televised 2008 documentary celebrating the show's 50th anniversary. Shep died in 1987, and Noakes often became emotional when asked about him; he openly wept on an edition of \"The Weakest Link\" when hostess Anne Robinson asked him about the dog.\n\n"}
{"id": "3386539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3386539", "title": "Slime (Dragon Quest)", "text": "Slime (Dragon Quest)\n\nThe Slime is the mascot of the \"Dragon Quest\" role-playing video game franchise. Originally inspired by the game \"Wizardry\" to be a weak and common monster for the video game \"Dragon Quest\", Slime has appeared in almost every \"Dragon Quest\" game since. The character's popularity led to the appearance of many varieties of slimes, including boss characters, and even emerging as the protagonist of the \"\" video game series.\n\nThe Slime has been placed on a multitude of different kinds of merchandise. The Slime's friendliness, limited power, and appealing form have caused the Slime to become a popular character and symbol of the \"Dragon Quest\" series.\n\nThe inspiration for the Slime came to Yuji Horii, the creator of \"Dragon Quest\", from a role-playing game called \"Wizardry\". \"I was really hooked on 'Wizardy,' the PC game, ... There's...slime-looking characters ..., so I got the inspiration from it. I was doodling the slime-looking character and I took it to Mr. Toriyama, who did the character design, and he made it the Slime we see today.\" Horii said that when it was originally conceived, the Slime was \"a pile of goo\", but Toriyama's design came back as a tear-drop which they considered \"perfect\".\n\nIn most appearances of the Slime, it is an antagonist, and occasionally a boss. In some \"Dragon Quest\" titles, slimes also appear as friendly non-player characters and peaceful inhabitants of cities. Friendly slimes usually greet players with the phrase, \"I'm not a bad slime!\". Slimes, like many monsters in the \"Dragon Quest\" series, have a certain verbal tic, \"slurp\". Slimes also replace certain words or syllables with the word \"goo\" (\"e.g.\" \"human\" becomes \"gooman\"), or other words relating to slime or goo, when they speak.\n\nThere are many different types of slimes found throughout the \"Dragon Quest\" and \"Rocket Slime\" series. These include slimes in different colors, bubble slimes, which look like pools of slime, nautical slimes that wear conch shells, the rare metal slimes, which have high defense, give out large amounts of experience points, and tend to flee from battle, healslimes, which have tentacles, and king slimes, which are very large slimes wearing crowns and come in various versions, such as regular or metal.\n\nThe Slime made its first appearance in \"Dragon Quest\" as the first and weakest enemy in the game, and has made a similar appearance in all subsequent \"Dragon Quest\" titles. In \"\", the monster is an easy recruit that learns a variety of magic spells. The Slime is also the protagonist of its own spinoff series, beginning with \"Slime MoriMori Dragon Quest\", a Japanese Game Boy Advance title. It was followed by \"\", which was released worldwide for the Nintendo DS, and the Japanese-exclusive title, \"Slime Mori Mori Dragon Quest 3\" for the Nintendo 3DS. These games follow a nation of slimes who are intelligent and civilized, but also cute and somewhat comical. In the North American localization of the \"Dragon Quest\" games for the Nintendo DS, joking references and puns are made about slimes. Slime also appeared in three crossover games along with characters from Nintendo's \"Mario\" franchise: \"Itadaki Street DS\", \"Mario Sports Mix\", and \"Fortune Street\".\n\nReviewers have seen the slime as symbolic of the \"Dragon Quest\" series in the same way that the Moogle represents \"Final Fantasy\". \"Dragon Quest\" creator Yuji Horii speculated that the popularity of the slime may come from its cuteness, how it is easy to defeat, and while the protagonists change in every \"Dragon Quest\" game, the slime is always there. GamesRadar speculated that the intense \"grinding\", or fighting of enemies in the \"Dragon Quest\" series exposed players to an abundance of slimes, but a positive association was created by their familiarity. Yoshiki Watabe, producer of \"\", hypothesized its popularity came from it being a \"well designed character\", but \"simple\", being accessible to anyone.\n\nAs the most recognizable symbol of the best-selling video game series in Japan, the Slime has been featured prominently in \"Dragon Quest\"-related merchandise. It has its own section called 'Smile Slime' on the Square Enix JP shopping website. Slime merchandise includes plush toys, pencil cases, keychains, game controllers, a stylus, and several boardgames including one titled \"Dragon Quest Slime Racing\". In Japan, pork filled steam buns shaped like slimes have been sold. For \"Dragon Quest's\" 25th anniversary, special items were sold including business cards, tote bags, and crystal figurines.\n\nThe \"Dragon Quest\" Slime has received positive reception from critics and fans, being called the \"most prolific\" of all the \"memorable\" monsters from the series and is one of the most recognizable characters in gaming. The Slime has also been called cute and charming by several critics, especially when reviewing \"Rocket Slime\". GamesRadar listed it as the most lovable blob in video games, calling them the \"equivalent of training wheels\" due to how easy they are to defeat typically, but also saying that their weird smile makes players think twice about killing them. They also listed it as a character they wished they knew less about. They stated that while they started out as nothing more than things for players to kill and not feel guilty about, the playable role of a Slime in the \"\" series made them realize they were more than just generic enemies. In the January 2010 issue of \"Nintendo Power\", the editors listed the Slime among its Favorite Punching Bags, a list including Goombas and Octoroks. They wrote that \"The Slimes are just so cute and friendly-looking, it's almost hard to slay them. But you know, a hero's gotta do what a hero's gotta do.\"\n"}
{"id": "2745368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2745368", "title": "Strategic essentialism", "text": "Strategic essentialism\n\nStrategic essentialism, a major concept in postcolonial theory, was introduced in the 1980s by the Indian literary critic and theorist Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak. It refers to a political tactic in which minority groups, nationalities, or ethnic groups mobilize on the basis of shared gendered, cultural, or political identity to represent themselves. While strong differences may exist between members of these groups, and amongst themselves they engage in continuous debates, it is sometimes advantageous for them to temporarily \"essentialize\" themselves and to bring forward their group identity in a simplified way to achieve certain goals, such as equal rights or antiglobalization.\n\nSpivak's understanding of the term was first introduced in the context of cultural negotiations, never as an anthropological category. In her 2008 book \"Other Asias,\" Spivak disavowed the term, indicating her dissatisfaction with how the term has been deployed in nationalist enterprises to promote (non-strategic) essentialism. \n\nThe concept also comes up regularly in queer theory, feminist theory, deaf studies, and specifically in the work of Luce Irigaray, who refers to it as mimesis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17563810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17563810", "title": "Structural abuse", "text": "Structural abuse\n\nStructural abuse is the process by which an individual is dealt with unfairly by a system of harm in ways that the person cannot protect themselves against, cannot deal with, cannot break out of, cannot mobilise against, cannot seek justice for, cannot redress, cannot avoid, cannot reverse and cannot change.\n\nEvery system contains at least one level at which structural abuse occurs, when the actions of the system takes over the actions of individuals within that system to create structures by which abuse of others occurs.\n\nStructural abuse should not be confused with structural violence. Structural violence refers to action committed by a larger society, such as racism or classism in an entire society. Structural abuse refers to actions that are not necessarily endorsed by the broader society.\n\nThere are three kinds of structural abuse:\n\nStructural abuse is indirect, and exploits the victim on an emotional, mental and psychological level. It manifests itself in specific situations within each cultural, social, corporate and family framework.\n\nStructural abuse is also called societal abuse. It has four permanent impacts upon the individuals subjected to it:\n\nAn example of how surface-level structural abuses are accepted by the community is where a political journalist in Australia presented a review of the day's work within the Australian Parliament in August 2011. During the one-minute presentation, consisting of 18 points, she began eight new points with the word \"Now\". \"Now\" is a fixation cue for viewers to forget about the past and the future, but to concentrate only on the \"now\" time frame. The use of the word was surplus to the data she presented, and even contradictory to it. The regularity of the word \"Now\", its placement at the front of each point by which the interpretation of each point is shaped, and the later repetitive use of the word by the anchor journalist steering the news program, who does not normally use such a control habit, showed that the word was a verbal dissociative cue by which hypnotic states are induced.\n\nOther examples include:\n\nCues indicating a Structurally Abusive Corporate System\n\nStructural Abuse Indicators include the inability of an outsider to make contact on a personal level with the people who work within an organisation. Cafe meetings turn discussions into plagiarisable events, while lack of agendas for high performance meetings create heightened levels of feeling threatened which impacts on how such meetings are approached. Being kept on hold with music blaring down the earpiece is structural abuse because by listening for the resumption of the discussion there is no escape from the sound.\n\nStructurally abusive political systems\n\nMaking promises which are not kept is a category of political structural abuse. Unkept promises fixate the expectations that people create from such promises. Expectations that create physical arousal states and a physical, emotional, intellectual and behavioural mindset by which to accommodate the fulfillment of those promises. When those visualisations of the future and its mobilisation of personal responsiveness is not satisfied in a timely or appropriate manner the result is an extended period of physiological arousal which can turn into stress and emotional depression over time. Hence the anger responses of electorates to the unkept promises of politicians, as well as the frustrated responses of victims of abuses of court processes (e.g. \"protective\" orders) to the abuse of discretion exhibited by misfeasant court and law enforcement officers who can claim to be acting under authority or color of law.\n\nCommunity Control Functions of Structural Abuse\n\nAll categories of structural abuse involve the manipulative control of time, energy, focus and connection between people, groups and organisations, in the service of one side, and to the disservice of the other.\n\nMost people call structural abuse \"bad manners\" or \"rudeness\", since it generally breaks conventions by which there is mutual control within each situation.\n\nEach instance of structural abuse breaks down the positive relationship between the two parties, creating for those being abused increasingly negative relationships built on expectations of exploitation, snatching of time, waste of effort, missing redress, and feelings of entrapment from which it is hard to escape.\n\nDealing with structural abuse\n\nStructural abuse is helped by talking therapies in which those abused find a listener, and then find their voice by which to begin to remove the power of the abusing system to continue to harm their inner identities.\n\nCurrently in most countries, there is no formal law that has been formulated against structural abuse, protecting the victim from such abuse, and enabling him or her to approach the court for relevant justice.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11542782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11542782", "title": "Structure follows strategy", "text": "Structure follows strategy\n\nIn management theory, the thesis that Structure follows Strategy was proposed by the historian Alfred Chandler. This means that a corporate structure is created in order to implement a given corporate strategy.\n\nChandler substantiated his Structure follows Strategy thesis based on four case studies of American conglomerates that dominated their industry from the 1920s onward. Chandler described how the chemical company Du Pont, the automobile manufacturer General Motors, the energy company Standard Oil of New Jersey and the retailer Sears Roebuck managed a growth and diversification strategy by adopting the revolutionary multi-division form. The M-Form is a corporate federation of semi-independent product or geographic groups plus a headquarters that oversees the corporate strategy and coordinates interdependencies. \n\nAlthough the organizational M-form was implemented differently by each of the organizations, Chandler showed that the need to restructure arose from a strategic shift driven by new technologies and market changes. The M-form emerged and co-evolved with the development of the transportation and communication industries thereby creating the opportunity to manage across time and space.\n\nHe described corporate strategy as the determination of long-term goals and objectives, the adoption of courses of action and associated allocation of resources required to achieve goals; he defined structure as the design of the organization through which strategy is administered. Changes in an organization's strategy led to new administrative problems which, in turn, required a new or refashioned structure for the successful implementation of the new strategy.\n\nChandler's thesis argued that new organizational forms are no more than a derivative of strategy as he defined it.\n\nHall and Saias inverted Chandler's thesis, suggesting that Strategy Follows Structure. For example, they point out that a multidivisional structure biases a firm towards a conglomerate strategy.\n\nHenry Mintzberg offered a balanced view, arguing that the relationship between strategy and structure is reciprocal. \"Structure follows strategy ... as the left foot follows the right.\"\n\nChandler, A.D. Jr. (1962). \"Strategy and Structure: Chapters in the History of the American Industrial Enterprise\". Cambridge, MA: MIT Press\n\nHall, D.J. and Saias, M.A. (1980). \"Strategy Follows Structure!\" Strategic Management Journal, Vol 1 No 2 (April-June 1980) 149-163\n\nMintzberg, H. (1990). \"The Design School: Reconsidering the Basic Premises of Strategic Management\" Strategic Management Journal, Vol 11 No 3 (March-April 1990) 171-195\n\nJennifer Nwachukwu, The introduction of Strategy and structure (????)\n\n"}
{"id": "26315274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26315274", "title": "Symmetry breaking and cortical rotation", "text": "Symmetry breaking and cortical rotation\n\nThis article is about the concept in biology. For the concept in physics, see Symmetry breaking.\n\nSymmetry breaking is the process by which uniformity is broken, or the number of points to view invariance are reduced, to generate a more structured and improbable state. That is to say, symmetry breaking is the event where symmetry along a particular axis is lost to establish a polarity. Polarity is a measure for a biological system to distinguish poles along an axis. This measure is important because it is the first step to building complexity. For example, during organismal development, one of the first steps for the embryo is to distinguish its dorsal-ventral axis. The symmetry-breaking event that occurs here will determine which end of this axis will be the ventral side, and which end will be the dorsal side. Once this distinction is made, then all the structures that are located along this axis can develop at the proper location. As an example, during human development, the embryo needs to establish where is ‘back’ and where is ‘front’ before complex structures, such as the spine and lungs, can develop in the right location (where the lungs is placed ‘in front’ of the spine). This relationship between symmetry breaking and complexity was articulated by P.W. Anderson. He speculated that increasing levels of broken symmetry in many-body systems correlates with increasing complexity and functional specialization. In a biological perspective, the more complex an organism is, the higher number of symmetry-breaking events can be found. Without symmetry breaking, building complexity in organisms would be very difficult.\n\nThe importance of symmetry breaking in biology is also reflected in the fact that it’s found at all scales. Symmetry breaking can be found at the macromolecular level, at the subcellular level and even at the tissues and organ level. It’s also interesting to note that most asymmetry on a higher scale is a reflection of symmetry breaking on a lower scale. Cells first need to establish a polarity through a symmetry-breaking event before tissues and organs themselves can be polar. For example, one model proposes that left-right body axis asymmetry in vertebrates is determined by asymmetry of cilia rotation during early development, which will produces a constant, unidirectional flow. However, there is also evidence that earlier asymmetries in serotonin distribution and ion-channel mRNA and protein localization occur in zebrafish, chicken and \"Xenopus\" development, and similar to observations of intrinsic chirality generated by the cytoskeleton leading to organ and whole organism asymmetries in \"Arabidopsis\" this itself seems to be controlled from the macromolecular level by the cytoskeleton.\n\nThere are several examples of symmetry breaking that are currently being studied. One of the most studied examples is the cortical rotation during \"Xenopus\" development, where this rotation acts as the symmetry-breaking event that determines the dorsal-ventral axis of the developing embryo. This example is discussed in more detail below.\n<br>Another example that involves symmetry breaking is the establishment of dendrites and axon during neuron development, and the PAR protein network in \"C. elegans\". It is thought that a protein called shootin-1 determines which outgrowth in neurons eventually becomes the axon, at it does this by breaking symmetry and accumulating in only one outgrowth. The PAR protein network works under similar mechanisms, where the certain PAR proteins, which are initially homogenous throughout the cell, break their symmetry and are segregated to different ends of the zygote to establish a polarity during development.\n\nCortical rotation is a phenomenon that seems to be limited to \"Xenopus\" and few ancient teleosts, however the underlying mechanisms of cortical rotation have conserved elements that are found in other chordates. Research in this area is on-going and changes to the model described below are to be expected.\nIn fact, the origin of asymmetry in cell division, cell polarity and the mechanism that breaks the symmetry continue to be topics of intense research. Since the early 1990s, many discoveries have been made leading to a sound model of the mechanism for symmetry breaking. This article will focus solely on symmetry breaking in the \"Xenopus\" embryo, an animal model that has wide application.\n\nA sperm can bind a \"Xenopus\" egg at any position of the pigmented animal hemisphere; however once bound this position then determines the dorsal side of the animal. The dorsal side of the egg is always directly opposite the sperm entry point. The reason being the sperm's centriole acts as an organizing center for the egg’s microtubules. While this observation has been known for quite some time, the question of how all of this works is more complicated. The molecular mechanisms driving dorsal-ventral asymmetry are a fine example of simplicity and complexity inherent in biology.\n\nA series of experiments utilizing UV irradiation, cold temperature and pressure (all of which cause microtubule depolymerization) demonstrated that without polymerized microtubules cortical rotation did not occur and resulted in a mutant ventral phenotype. Another study also revealed that mutant phenotype could be rescued (returned to normal) by physically turning the embryo, thus mimicking cortical rotation and demonstrating that microtubules were not the determinant of dorsal development. From this it was hypothesized that there were other elements within the embryo being moved during cortical rotation.\n\nTo identify these elements, researchers looked for mRNA and protein that demonstrated localization to either the vegetal pole or the dorsal side of the embryo to find candidates. The early candidates for the determinant were β-catenin and disheveled (Dsh). When maternal β-catenin mRNA was degraded in the oocyte, the resulting embryo developed into mutant ventral phenotype and this could be rescued by injecting the fertilized egg with β-catenin mRNA. β-catenin is obversed to be enriched in the dorsal side of the embryo following cortical rotation. The Dsh protein was fused to a GFP and tracked during cortical rotation, it was observed to be in vesicles that were couriered along microtubules to the dorsal side. This led researchers to look into other candidates of the Wnt pathway. Wnt 11 was found to be located specifically at the vegetal pole prior to cortical rotation and is moved to the dorsal side where it activates the wnt signaling pathway. VegT, a T-box transcription factor, is localized to the vegetal cortex and upon cortical rotation is released in a gradient fashion into the embryo to regulate mesoderm development. VegT activates Wnt expression, so while not acted on or moved during cortical rotation, it is active in dorsal-ventral axis formation.\n\nThe question still remains, how are these molecules being moved to the dorsal side? This is still not completely known, however evidence suggests that microtubule bundles within the cortex are interacting with kinesin (plus-end directed) motors to become organized into parallel arrays within the cortex and this motion of the motors is the cause of the rotation of the cortex. Also unclear is whether Wnt 11 is the main dorsal determinant or is β-catenin also required, as these two molecules have both been demonstrated to be necessary and sufficient for dorsal development. This along with all of the other factors are important for activating Nodal genes that propagate normal dorsoventral development.\n\nFor reviews of the general topic see.\n"}
{"id": "11740906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11740906", "title": "The Mutant Virus: Crisis in a Computer World", "text": "The Mutant Virus: Crisis in a Computer World\n\nThe Mutant Virus: Crisis in a Computer World is an NES video game produced by ASC Games. It was made in April 1992.\n\nThe plot centers around protagonist, Ron, and his fight to eliminate a virus out of a global A.I. that is responsible for every aspect of technology in the game's present day. If Ron is unable to extinguish the virus, humanity will be thrown back to the Stone Age. The player controls a miniature \"space ship\" that shoots anti-virus and other variations of the weapon to try to contain the virus in that room.\n\nThe virus in the game is a cellular automaton following the rules of Conway's Game of Life, with the exception that each cell is either a virus cell (green) or a clean cell (light blue). As new cells are created, they either become virus cells or clean cells depending on which type makes up the majority of their neighbors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1698783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1698783", "title": "Vlassis Bonatsos", "text": "Vlassis Bonatsos\n\nVlassis Bonatsos () (November 30, 1949 – October 14, 2004) was a popular Greek entertainer and singer. \n\nHis father was a judicial officer and his mother was a piano teacher. Vlassis started his music career by creating a group named \"PELOMA BOKIOU\" (\"ΠΕΛΟΜΑ ΜΠΟΚΙΟΥ\") in the early 1970s. The band members came up with the name after combining syllables of their last names: DaPEris, LOgothetis, MArinakis, BOnatsos and KIOYrktsoglou. In the early 1980s he costarred in the legendary theatrical play \"Evita\" starring Aliki Vougiouklaki (Αλίκη Βουγιουκλάκη) and him as Che. He maintained a relationship with the \"national\" Star of Greece (Vougiouklaki was used to be called that) for several years. Then he took up acting and starred in Greek movies, but his fame reached its peak in the 1990s when he started participating in popular TV series such as \"Aparadektoi\" (1991). He is also remembered as a presenter of iconic TV shows and gameshows on Greek TV including the Greek version of \"Family Feud\" (named in Greek: \"Kontres\"). In \"Kontres\" his memorable catchphrase was \"Tora!!!!!\" (Now!!!) with a characteristic sudden raise in his voice (almost yelling). He died suddenly in 2004, aged 54. According to the press his death cause was asphyxiation, due to obstructive laryngitis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "163334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163334", "title": "Walter de Merton", "text": "Walter de Merton\n\nWalter de Merton (c. 1205 – 27 October 1277) was Bishop of Rochester and founder of Merton College, Oxford.\n\nWalter was probably born at Merton in Surrey or educated there. He came of a land-owning family at Basingstoke; beyond that there is no definite information about the date or place of birth. His mother was Christina Fitz-Oliver and his father William. By 1237 both his parents were dead, and Walter was a clerk in holy orders. In 1241 Walter already held a number of livings in various parts of the country; in 1256 he was an agent for Walter of Kirkham Bishop of Durham in a lawsuit. Walter was also prothonotary of the chancery in 1258.\n\nWalter rose to prominence as a skilled lawyer and negotiator. When Henry III went to France to negotiate the Treaty of Paris, Walter was left behind as a trusted royal servant. On 29 March, the Justiciar ordered 100 barons to muster in London for a secret meeting that would take them overseas. Only a few days later Walter could be seen at Maldon, Surrey assisting in the registration of the Justiciar's army. The writs were pre-dated, then considered a new procedure at some risk to the messengers' delivery of the writs to Sheriffs in the locality. Walter also helped in the complex financial dealing with King Louis IX of France, when he reached London on 30 April. In return for a promise of peace, Henry received 12,500 Livres, the equivalent of 500 Knights Fees. By 1264, this would be a total of 134,000 Livres of subsidy from the King of France. Walter played an invaluable part in the administration of Henry's revenues. By 1259, Walter had suitably impressed the king that he was granted a prebendary of St. Paul's, London.\n\nOn 12 July 1261 Henry III made him chancellor, in place of Nicholas of Ely. A month earlier the Papal Bulls in support of Henry's coup d'etat had ensured it was safe for the King to return to the Tower of London. With a mercenary at his back, he had marched from Dover over Whitsun. In London, Walter was reinstalled as Chancellor in a 'resumption of royal power', having been briefly challenged by the baronial movement. Walter provided legal arguments for the collection of Tallage, rejection of the baronial constitution, appointment of royal Sheriffs, and a renewed attempt to justify the collection of Customs. Now only a cussed Philip Basset, among the barons, remained aloof from the fray, when the King's new ministrations emerged against the Provisions of Oxford. As one of the arbitrators, Walter met the barons with Walerand and Basset. He was probably not the king's first choice among the nobility, but the sticking-point remained the method by which to appoint sheriffs, from 'faithful men and people' in the shires. Later that month of May, he had helped define \"Jus regalitatis\", a law that prohibited criticism of the King; a flagrant breach of the commitment at Oxford. A year later Henry would describe the sheriffs as \"bachelarii regis qui tenent comitatus\" or his bachelors. For the regents were men of the second rank, not nobles, yet they owed their elevated status entirely to royal service. Walter quickly acquired lucrative sinecures in 1262, like the new prebendary of Exeter and, instituted a canon of Wells Cathedral. The following year when de Montfort was at the height of his powers, Walter was urged by the bishop of Worcester to accept a form of peace \"satis competens et honesta.\" Walter could have been a member of Richard of Cornwall's deputation sent from Windsor to greet Montfort's army coming east from London and Kent. But on 16 July, when the King surrendered peace terms, and three days later de Montfort assumed power, Walter also left office.\n\nIn 1261, two manors in Surrey were set aside for the support of \"scholars residing at the schools\" at Merton Priory; it was the beginning of Merton College. In 1264 Walter drew up statutes for a \"house of the scholars of Merton\", at Malden in Surrey; ten years later these scholars were transferred to Oxford, and a permanent house established. Merton College, thus founded and endowed, was one of the earliest examples of collegiate life at Oxford. De Merton's statutes provided for a common corporate life under the rule of a warden, but as vows were to be taken and scholars entering a monastic order forfeited their scholarship, the college was really a place of training for the secular clergy. Freed of the responsibilities of government, Walter turned his attention to his college again. The statutes were redrafted and scholars moved permanently to Oxford. They were established on the site of the parish church of St John whose advowson he had obtained in the early 1260s and where he had been buying adjoining houses and halls since 1264. In 1270 he bought Kibworth Harcourt, Leicestershire as part of the confiscated estate of Saer de Harcourt, an erstwhile supporter of Simon de Montfort. While labouring for the establishment of Merton College, the barons emerged triumphant. Walter, a partisan friend of Henry III, was removed from the chancellorship in 1263. He was not immediately restored after the king's victory, but he did renew his acquaintance with the royal circle, by now at Windsor.\n\nWalter is mentioned as a Justiciar in 1271. He was re-appointed as Lord Chancellor, four days after Henry III's death. For the first two years of Edward I he was in all but name regent of England during the King's absence abroad. He was tasked with investigation into the 20,000 Marks collected (1266) from Tallage, about which many complaints had sparked the ire of the Citizens of London. Violent clashes on the streets worried the King Edward in his first year on the throne. The \"vulgus\" (common people) clamoured for heads at the Guildhall, and the election of the baronial party. Merton argued that the \"communa\" election was a matter for Parliament, whereas the Aldermanic vote clashed with the other jurisdiction. Merton's joint tribunal appointed before Henry III's death, was redundant, until Edward I could appoint a royal warden. On 11 November, Edward wisely moved, prompted by his Chancellor, to enable counsellors to control the 'men of Belial'. The violence subsided: Merton successfully negotiated the elected Walter Hervey as Mayor, and so he \"announced before all the people at the cross of St Paul's that the aldermen had agreed to have Walter as mayor for that year.\" The contemporary historian, Matthew Paris, who died in 1275, left voluminous histories about these events.\n\nIn the king's absence he stood in his place, effective Regent of England. Edward commanded the respect of his household and wardrobe anticipating a welcome return. This is signified in a letter of 9 August sent from Melun, France in which Walter was promised full support. On Edward's return Walter was dismissed as Lord Chancellor on 21 September 1274, in favour of Robert Burnell, who became a strong ally of the Edwardian regime. Walter's compensation was the Bishopric of Rochester, where he was elected in late July and consecrated on 21 October 1274;\n\nHe eagerly awaited in anticipation the appointment of a Warden of the new Merton College. For the last three years of his life Walter divided his time between his duties in Rochester and the supervision of his fledging academic house. On a journey back from Oxford in 1277, while fording the Medway, he fell from his horse; and died two days later on 27 October 1277 from his injuries. He was buried in Rochester Cathedral, and is described in the \"Annales monastici\" as a man of liberality and great worldly learning, ever ready in his assistance to the religious orders.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4512101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4512101", "title": "Watch system", "text": "Watch system\n\nA watch system, watch schedule, or watch bill is a method of assigning regular periods of work duty aboard ships and some other areas of employment. A watch system allows the ship's crew to operate the ship 24 hours a day for the duration of long voyages or operations.\n\nMany watch systems incorporate the concept of dogging, whereby one watch is split into two shorter watches so that there is an odd number each day. Doing so allows crew members to have a different watch schedule each day. Often, the dog watches are set at dinner time to allow the entire crew to be fed in short order.\n\nIn the traditional Royal Navy watch system (a system used by most other Commonwealth navies), 'watch' refers to a period of time and to a grouping of personnel. Those members of the crew whose work must be done at all times of the day – known as 'watch-keepers' – are assigned to one of two watches: the Starboard or the Port watch. These can be further divided into two parts, e.g. First Port, Second Starboard. These two watches – or more usually the four parts of watches – alternate in working the following watches:\n\n\nThe Royal Navy traditional submarine three watch system is 2 on 4 off during the day (8 a.m. to 8 p.m.) and 3 on 6 off during the night (8 p.m. to 8 a.m.).\nThe same arrangement of watch times can also be used with a crew divided into three sections. This gives each sailor more time off-duty, sometimes allowing sleeping periods of over seven hours. Names for the three watches—instead of Port and Starboard—vary from ship to ship. Naming schemes such as \"Foremast\", \"Mainmast\" and \"Mizzen\" and \"Red\", \"White\" and \"Blue\" are common.\nThe so-called \"five-and-dime\" arrangement splits the day into five-hour watches, with the exception of a four-hour watch from 22:00 to 02:00. \nThe \"Six-Hour-Shift\" splits the day in four 6-hour watches, permitting a three section crew to maximize rest time in a 3-day working cycle. Also, this watch systems takes into better account the meal times (of a 4 meal-a-day system), so that the ingoing team will be fed first, then stand watch, while the outgoing team will be relieved of watch, and then proceed to the messdeck.\n\nAboard United States submarines, the crew is typically divided into three sections, with each section standing 8 hours of watch followed by 16 hours off-watch. This schedule has been a fairly recent change to submariner work and rest routines. For nearly 45 years prior to 2015, submariners were on 18-hour days with 6 hours of watch followed by 12 hours off watch. The 12 hours off-watch were further divided into the first 6 hours being used for maintenance, cleaning, and entertainment; while the second 6 hours were usually for sleeping.\n\nNote that this arrangement resulted in one of the sections having two watches in one (24-hour) day, and there were no dog watches. Also, watch reliefs occurred no later than the bottom of the hour (2330, 0530, 1130, 1730). Typically, the first 30 minutes of the hour were used for the oncoming section to eat while the second 30 minutes of the hour were used for the off-going section to eat.\nSome warships now use the one-in-two system, also known as 7s and 5s, for the duration of the watches. This gives the sailors a longer sleeping period than the traditional two-watch system, while still maintaining the ability for the ship to function. Meals are generally scheduled around the watch turnovers at 0700, 1200, and 1700; sometimes a light midnight meal is provided for the 0000 turnover.\n\nVarious alternative watch schedules have been devised, which are typically referred to as Swedish watches. Although there is no standard for what constitutes a Swedish watch, the variations all feature some element of extended watches to accommodate longer time off. Like the traditional watch system, they begin at 2000 hours. Some popular variations have durations of 6, 6, 4, 4, 4 and 5, 5, 5, 5, 4.\n\nOn merchant ships, watchstanders typically stand watch for three periods of four consecutive hours. This system has a couple of advantages: it is easy to remember and it is consistent. For example, a member of watch team 1 will only have to remember that he is on the \"4–8\" watch, and knows that he goes on watch at 4 a.m. and 4 p.m. This scheme also allows inexperienced watchstanders to stand watch from 8–12 a.m. and 8–12 p.m., when senior watchstanders are likely to be awake and ready to assist in case of trouble. \n\nBy custom, in a ship with five deck officers the junior third mate takes the 8 to 12 watch, the senior third mate the 12 to 4 watch, and the second mate the 4 to 8 watch. This enables the second officer, who is the ship's navigator, to take morning and evening star sights. In ships with only four deck officers, the third officer will stand the 8 to 12, the second officer the 12 to 4, and the Chief Mate (equivalent to the Executive Officer in a navy ship) the 4 to 8 watch. The reason for this is to enable the Chief Mate to assign work to the deck gang before the ship's day begins, and to inspect it before going on watch at 1600 hours.\n\n\n\nHome Coming First AYC watch period shift system recommendation\n"}
{"id": "43406899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43406899", "title": "Älgen Stolta", "text": "Älgen Stolta\n\nÄlgen Stolta (in Swedish, \"Älgen\" means \"the moose\" and \"Stolta\" means \"proud\") was a moose that became known for participating in a trot racing event in Falun, Sweden, in 1907.\n\nIn the early 1900s, an elk cow (adult female) died, leaving her year-old calf behind. Different sources claim the cow was a killed by a passing train, others that it drowned, but they agree it happened near the Dalälven river close to Älvkarleby in Uppland. Its live female calf was taken to Johan Blad, the foreman at Älvkarleö's railway park. Blad knew a lineman called Anders Gustav Jansson who lived in Älvkarleby and had a reputation for animal husbandry, so he asked for his help with the elk which they named Stolta. Stolta was raised like a tame horse; doing forestry work, pulling carts and sleds with material, and also used to pull a sled carrying tourists between the railway station and the tourist hotel near the waterfall in Älvkarleby.\n\nIn 1907 at a winter sports festival in Falun, Stolta won a trot race against trained trotting horses over an ice-covered lake. Jansson was afterwards presented with a coffee service: a coffee pot and accompanying sugar bowl and coffee creamer. The coffee pot had an inscription that read \"Minne av Vinteridrottsfästen i Falun 1907 för körning av elg\" (\"Memento of Winter Sports Festival in Falun in 1907 for driving with an elk\"). The park where Älgen Stolta was kept closed in 1909 as the area was marked as part of the reservoir for a hydroelectric power station. Stolta was moved to the open-air museum of Skansen on the island of Djurgården in Stockholm where it was thought she could be better cared for, and her name was changed to \"Lotta.\" After the 1907 race, a rule prohibiting the use of elks as draft animals was added.\n"}
