{"id": "48401710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48401710", "title": "Airstrikes on hospitals in Yemen", "text": "Airstrikes on hospitals in Yemen\n\nA Saudi Arabian-led military intervention in Yemen began in 2015, in an attempt to influence the outcome of the Yemeni Civil War. Saudi Arabia, spearheading a coalition of nine Arab states, began carrying out airstrikes in neighbouring Yemen and imposing an aerial and naval blockade on 26 March 2015, heralding a military intervention code-named Operation Decisive Storm (). More than 70 health facilities in Yemen have been destroyed by a series of airstrikes conducted by the Saudi Arabian-led coalition since March 2015. Many of these have been public health hospitals staffed or supported by Doctors Without Borders (MSF). Critics of the assaults say the airstrikes are war crimes in violation of the protections of health care facilities afforded by the internationally recognized rules of war and have called for independent investigations.\n\nMany other civilians targets, including schools,and school buses in Yemen are also bombed by the Saudi-led coalition.\n\n1,500 schools were damaged and destroyed during Yemeni Civil War.\n\nThe UN accused the Saudi-led coalition of \"complete disregard for human life\".\n\nDoctors Without Borders reported that a Saudi Arabian-led coalition airstrike on 26 October 2015 had completely destroyed the Médecins Sans Frontières hospital in Saada, in northwestern Yemen, including the operating room. The first strike hit an unused part of the hospital, so the facility was completely evacuated at once. There were no direct casualties. The spokesman for the coalition forces, Brig-Gen Ahmed al-Asiri, disclaimed responsibility for the attack.\n\n\"With the hospital destroyed, at least 200,000 people now have no access to lifesaving medical care\", MSF said. \"This attack is another illustration of a complete disregard for civilians in Yemen, where bombings have become a daily routine,\" said Hassan Boucenine, MSF head of mission in Yemen. The GPS coordinates of the only hospital in the Haydan district were regularly shared with the Saudi-led coalition, and the roof of the facility was clearly identified with the MSF logo, he said. Abdallah al-Mouallimi, the Saudi ambassador to the United Nations, said the coordinates were inaccurate, although he admitted that the airstrike was \"a mistake\".\n\nThe UNICEF said the hospital in Saada was the 39th health center hit in Yemen since March, when the violence escalated. MSF reports that the Saudi-led coalition, supported by the British military, has been bombing hospitals across Yemen for the past 10 months. As many as 130 health facilities have been hit. \"More children in Yemen may well die from a lack of medicines and healthcare than from bullets and bombs,\" its executive director Anthony Lake said in a statement. He added that critical shortages of fuel, medication, electricity and water could mean many more will close. Amnesty International said the strike may amount to a war crime and called for an independent investigation.\n\nOn December 3, 2015 an airstrike by the Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen hit a health center in Taiz, wounding nine people. Two hospital staff were among the wounded. \"The bombing of civilians and hospitals is a violation of international humanitarian law,\" said Jerome Alin, head of MSF head of mission in Yemen.\nOn January 10, 2016, Shiara Hospital, supported by MSF in Razeh district, Saada Governorate, Northern Yemen, was hit by a projectile and shrapnel from the Saudi-led coalition. Six people died and another 7 were injured, including three MSF staff, two of them in critical condition. Several buildings at the medical facility collapsed after the attack, although the critical areas of the hospital were not destroyed. The rocket hit a corridor leading from the main gate to the hospital buildings, with a metal fence alongside. The wounded were hit by shrapnel from the missile, and also by shards of metal from the fence. The injuries were brutal. Vickie Hawkins, Executive Director of MSF-UK, said, \"... there is a risk that \"errors\" in war situations will become normalised—just as \"collateral damage\" has been normalised in people’s minds since the first Gulf War. This would provide the perfect alibi for armies to shrug off accusations of war crimes and crimes against humanity. It perpetuates impunity.\n\nIn a separate attack by the Saudi-led coalition, an airstrike was reported to have hit a center for the blind in the capital Sana'a, resulting in multiple injuries. \n\nOn August 15, 2016, after the collapse of a UN-sponsored cease-fire, an airstrike by the Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen destroyed a hospital operated by Yemen's Ministry of Health and supported by MSF and UNICEF in Abs District, Hajjah Governorate in northwestern Yemen. The bombardment struck the hospital's triage area near the emergency room and killed at least 19 and wounded 24 people. At the time of the attack, there were 23 patients in the surgery ward, 25 in the maternity ward, 13 newborns and 12 patients in the pediatric ward, MSF said. The hospital had a 14-bed emergency room, a maternity unit and a surgical unit. Hospital staff were among the dead and wounded. “There were no armed people there,” a witness said. The hospital was reportedly treating child victims of another airstrike on a school in the town of Haydan, in neighboring Saada province, in which 10 children died and another 30 were wounded, all between the ages of 8 and 15 years. MSF has now withdrawn its staff members from Haydan, Razeh, Al Gamouri and Yasnim hospitals in Saada governorate and Abs and Al Gamouri hospitals in Hajjah governorate. Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, condemned the attack in a statement, emphasizing that antagonists in the Yemen conflict had damaged or destroyed more than 70 health facilities since the hostilities began 17 months ago.\n\nDoctors Without Borders reported that a Saudi Arabian coalition airstrike struck a new Médecins Sans Frontières cholera treatment center in Abs, in northwestern Yemen. Doctors Without Borders reported that they had provided GPS coordinates to The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on twelve separate occasions, and had received nine written responses confirming receipt of those coordinates \n\nOn 2 August 2018, airstrikes on hospital, harbor and fish market in Al Hudaydah killed at least 55 people and wounded 124.\n\n"}
{"id": "3239705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3239705", "title": "Alexander Zinoviev", "text": "Alexander Zinoviev\n\nAlexander Alexandrovich Zinoviev (October 29, 1922 – May 10, 2006) was a Russian logician and writer of social critique.\n\nBorn to a poor provincial family, he distinguished himself in the Second World War and later in the scholarship of logic. In the 1970s he criticized the Soviet political system, sacrificing his high academic station in Moscow. Eventually Zinoviev faced exile in 1978, after his novels \"Yawning Heights\" and \"The Radiant Future\" were published in Europe. He continued to develop his socio-philosophical ideas in subsequent publications, at times employing his original genre of the \"sociological novel\".\n\nAfter the Collapse of the Soviet Union, Zinoviev wrote a book \"A Russian Tragedy\" (Русская Трагедия) about the USSR's collapse, calling it a catastrophe. In his later life, he championed the Soviet system and regarded post-Soviet Russia with disdain. He considered Joseph Stalin as one of the greatest personalities in history.\n\nAlexander Alexandrovich Zinoviev was born in the village of Pakhtino, Kostroma Governorate (now Chukhlomsky District, Kostroma Oblast) as the sixth child to Alexander Yakovlevich and Appolinariya Vasilyevna. A few years later they moved to Moscow, seeking better quality of life.\n\nZinoviev excelled at school, and in 1939 entered the Moscow Institute of Philosophy, Literature and History. He was soon expelled for a negative attitude toward forced collectivisation, and forbidden to enroll with any other institute. He alleged that he was involved in a plot to assassinate Joseph Stalin during a school parade, but that the plan was called off; also, that he got arrested, but evaded prosecution. He joined the Red Army in 1940 and fought in the Great Patriotic War, even as fighter pilot, receiving honours and awards for a distinguished service.\n\nIn 1946 Alexander Zinoviev entered Moscow State University; he has since related that his ban from higher education was overlooked for a bribe – a box of sweets. He graduated in 1951 \"summa cum laude\" with a thesis on the logical structure of Marx’ \"Das Kapital\". During the following decades he became one of the most important logicians of the USSR.\n\nAs professor and head of Logic department at MSU, Zinoviev accumulated a subtly dissident reputation, having refused to expel politically discriminated staff, and, in a gesture of protest against Brezhnev’s cult of personality, resigned from the editorial board of \"Problems of Philosophy\", the leading Soviet journal on philosophy at that time.\n\nZinoviev’s diverse satirical stories agglomerated into his first major non-academic work, \"Yawning Heights\". After the release of the book in Switzerland in 1976, Zinovyev was demoted from his lecturer’s position, evicted from the Academy of Sciences, stripped of all awards including his war medals, and offered the liberty to leave the Soviet Union after his second novel of similar satirical style, \"The Radiant Future\", was published in the West in 1978. With his family he settled in Munich where they lived until 1999.\n\n\"Yawning Heights\" was a success, soon translated into most major European languages and read aloud in Russian via Western radio broadcasts.\n\nAmong Zinoviev’s non-fictional works from that time are \"Without Illusions\" (1979), \"The Reality of Communism\" (1980), \"We and the West\" (1981), \"Communism as a Reality\" (1981), \"Gorbachevism\" (1987). The latter was first published in French, 1987 (Lausanne, \"L'Âge d'homme\"). \"Without Illusions\" is a collection of essays, lectures, and broadcasts by Zinoviev published in various sources, including Polish exile journal Kultura printed in Paris. He explained thereby his way of interpretation of the Communist society, while expressing loyalty to the scientific method. Zinoviev postulated that the Western powers had underestimated the threat of Communism, and especially the peaceful infiltration of Communist traits into Western society. He claimed that Communism did not destroy, and principally could not have destroyed the social differences among the people, changing only the outward manifestations of inequality. In 1989 in an interview with Kultura he said that it's completely unrealistic to expect that USSR satellite states (mentioning Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia) would ever leave the Soviet sphere of influence, arguing that his opinion is based on \"solid sociological theory built on top of formal logic\".\n\nZinoviev emphasized his view that the Soviet regime’s main peculiarities were not irrational in essence, nor the result of some incidental circumstances. Rather, he asserted, they followed from the inherent “laws of society”, the systematic outcome of the combined actions of its participants. However, Zinoviev was one of the most outspoken critics of the Soviet regime until the era of Perestroyka. Unlike Solzhenitsyn, who sought a kind of revival of pre-1917 Russia, Zinovyev denied aany support to the Russian Orthodox Church or to nationalist doctrines.\n\nIn his book \"The West: phenomenon of Westernism\" (1995) Zinoviev presented a detailed analysis of the modern capitalist society which he called \"Westernism\". In the introduction to the book Zinoviev wrote that he came to the conclusion that can be summarized as follows. In economic terms Westernism strives to create jobs and revenue streams for those who do not produce products and services, and to strengthen private enterprise as the most effective means of forcing people to work. In social and political terms Westernism seeks to strengthen undemocratic aspect of the society, and transform democracy into a camouflage for the totalitarian state rule.\n\nZinoviev ceased to criticise Communism at the very dawn of Perestroika, years before the upsurge of crime and socio-economic problems that Russia faced in the 1990s. He spoke in defense of some aspects of the Soviet regime, and most radically condemned the reforms initiated by Boris Yeltsin. He argues that the West was the key influence in the Union's downfall: “Headed by the United States (a global \"supersociety\" based in the USA), the West has purposely implemented a program for destroying Russia”. In 1996, he appealed to the public to support Gennady Zyuganov, a Communist candidate who eventually lost the presidential election to Yeltsin. According to Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, Zinoviev spoke of collectivisation in the USSR as of a “long-awaited gift to the Russian peasantry”.\n\nIn a 1999 interview, Zinoviev said:\n\nAfter 21 years of exile, Zinoviev returned to Russia in 1999, declaring that he could no longer live “in the camp of those who are destroying my country and my people”. He visited and approved of Yugoslavia’s leader Slobodan Milošević, who was tried and acquitted for war crimes. Regarding Joseph Stalin, Zinoviev declared: “I consider him one of the greatest persons in the history of mankind. In the history of Russia he was, in my opinion, even greater than Lenin. Until Stalin’s death I was anti-Stalinist, but I always regarded him as an outstanding personality.”\n\nIn his online interview, Zinoviev maintained that all the accusations brought against Milošević were mere slander; he also declared that he admired Radovan Karadžić and Ratko Mladić, whom he regards as significant persons of the 20th century. Zinoviev was a co-chairman of the International Committee to Defend Slobodan Milošević. He likened the process of globalisation to a Third World War, whose first, completed phase was the Cold War.\n\nOn May 10, 2006, Zinoviev died in Moscow of brain cancer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6383817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6383817", "title": "Ancestral reconstruction", "text": "Ancestral reconstruction\n\nAncestral reconstruction (also known as Character Mapping or Character Optimization) is the extrapolation back in time from measured characteristics of individuals (or populations) to their common ancestors. It is an important application of phylogenetics, the reconstruction and study of the evolutionary relationships among individuals, populations or species to their ancestors. In the context of evolutionary biology, ancestral reconstruction can be used to recover different kinds of ancestral character states of organisms that lived millions of years ago. These states include the genetic sequence (ancestral sequence reconstruction), the amino acid sequence of a protein, the composition of a genome (e.g., gene order), a measurable characteristic of an organism (phenotype), and the geographic range of an ancestral population or species (ancestral range reconstruction). This is desirable because it allows us to examine parts of phylogenetic trees corresponding to the distant past, clarifying the evolutionary history of the species in the tree. Since modern genetic sequences are essentially a variation of ancient ones, access to ancient sequences may identify other variations and organisms which could have arisen from those sequences. In addition to genetic sequences, one might attempt to track the changing of one character trait to another, such as fins turning to legs.\n\nNon-biological applications include the reconstruction of the vocabulary or phonemes of ancient languages, and cultural characteristics of ancient societies such as oral traditions or marriage practices.\n\nAncestral reconstruction relies on a sufficiently realistic statistical model of evolution to accurately recover ancestral states. These models use the genetic information already obtained through methods such as phylogenetics to determine the route that evolution has taken and when evolutionary events occurred. No matter how well the model approximates the actual evolutionary history, however, one's ability to accurately reconstruct an ancestor deteriorates with increasing evolutionary time between that ancestor and its observed descendants. Additionally, more realistic models of evolution are inevitably more complex and difficult to calculate. Progress in the field of ancestral reconstruction has relied heavily on the exponential growth of computing power and the concomitant development of efficient computational algorithms (e.g., a dynamic programming algorithm for the joint maximum likelihood reconstruction of ancestral sequences.) Methods of ancestral reconstruction are often applied to a given phylogenetic tree that has already been inferred from the same data. While convenient, this approach has the disadvantage that its results are contingent on the accuracy of a single phylogenetic tree. In contrast, some researchers advocate a more computationally intensive Bayesian approach that accounts for uncertainty in tree reconstruction by evaluating ancestral reconstructions over many trees.\n\nThe concept of ancestral reconstruction is often credited to Emile Zuckerkandl and Linus Pauling. Motivated by the development of techniques for determining the primary (amino acid) sequence of proteins by Frederick Sanger in 1955, Zuckerkandl and Pauling postulated that such sequences could be used to infer not only the phylogeny relating the observed protein sequences, but also the ancestral protein sequence at the earliest point (root) of this tree. However, the idea of reconstructing ancestors from measurable biological characteristics had already been developing in the field of cladistics, one of the precursors of modern phylogenetics. Cladistic methods, which appeared as early as 1901, infer the evolutionary relationships of species on the basis of the distribution of shared characteristics, of which some are inferred to be descended from common ancestors. Furthermore, Theodoseus Dobzhansky and Alfred Sturtevant articulated the principles of ancestral reconstruction in a phylogenetic context in 1938, when inferring the evolutionary history of chromosomal inversions in \"Drosophila pseudoobscura\".\n\nThus, ancestral reconstruction has its roots in several disciplines. Today, computational methods for ancestral reconstruction continue to be extended and applied in a diversity of settings, so that ancestral states are being inferred not only for biological characteristics and the molecular sequences, but also for the structure or catalytic properties of ancient versus modern proteins, the geographic location of populations and species (phylogeography) and the higher-order structure of genomes. One of the most prominent examples is tracing the evolution that took place from ape to man .\n\nAny attempt at ancestral reconstruction begins with a phylogeny. In general, a phylogeny is a tree-based hypothesis about the order in which populations (referred to as taxa) are related by descent from common ancestors. Observed taxa are represented by the \"tips\" or \"terminal nodes\" of the tree that are progressively connected by branches to their common ancestors, which are represented by the branching points of the tree that are usually referred to as the \"ancestral\" or \"internal nodes\". Eventually, all lineages converge to the most recent common ancestor of the entire sample of taxa. In the context of ancestral reconstruction, a phylogeny is often treated as though it were a known quantity (with Bayesian approaches being an important exception). Because there can be an enormous number of phylogenies that are nearly equally effective at explaining the data, reducing the subset of phylogenies supported by the data to a single representative, or point estimate, can be a convenient and sometimes necessary simplifying assumption.\n\nAncestral reconstruction can be thought of as the direct result of applying a hypothetical model of evolution to a given phylogeny. When the model contains one or more free parameters, the overall objective is to estimate these parameters on the basis of measured characteristics among the observed taxa (sequences) that descended from common ancestors. Parsimony is an important exception to this paradigm: though it has been shown that there are circumstances under which it is the maximum likelihood estimator, at its core, it is simply based on the heuristic that changes in character state are rare, without attempting to quantify that rarity.\n\nThere are three different classes of method for ancestral reconstruction. In chronological order of discovery, these are maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian Inference. Maximum parsimony considers all evolutionary events equally likely; maximum likelihood accounts for the differing likelihood of certain classes of event; and Bayeisan inference relates the conditional probability of an event to the likelihood of the tree, as well as the amount of uncertainty that is associated with that tree. Maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood yield a single most probable outcome, whereas Bayesian inference accounts for uncertainties in the data and yields a sample of possible trees.\n\nParsimony, known colloquially as \"Occam's razor\", refers to the principle of selecting the simplest of competing hypotheses. In the context of ancestral reconstruction, parsimony endeavours to find the distribution of ancestral states within a given tree which minimizes the total number of character state changes that would be necessary to explain the states observed at the tips of the tree. This method of maximum parsimony is one of the earliest formalized algorithms for reconstructing ancestral states, as well as one of the simplest.\n\nMaximum parsimony can be implemented by one of several algorithms. One of the earliest examples is Fitch's method, which assigns ancestral character states by parsimony via two traversals of a rooted binary tree. The first stage is a post-order traversal that proceeds from the tips toward the root of a tree by visiting descendant (child) nodes before their parents. Initially, we are determining the set of possible character states \"S\" for the \"i\"-th ancestor based on the observed character states of its descendants. Each assignment is the set intersection of the character states of the ancestor's descendants; if the intersection is the empty set, then it is the set union. In the latter case, it is implied that a character state change has occurred between the ancestor and one of its two immediate descendants. Each such event counts towards the algorithm's cost function, which may be used to discriminate among alternative trees on the basis of maximum parsimony. Next, a pre-order traversal of the tree is performed, proceeding from the root towards the tips. Character states are then assigned to each descendant based on which character states it shares with its parent. Since the root has no parent node, one may be required to select a character state arbitrarily, specifically when more than one possible state has been reconstructed at the root.\n\nFor example, consider a phylogeny recovered for a genus of plants containing 6 species A - F (Figure 1), where each plant is pollinated by either a \"bee\", \"hummingbird\" or \"wind\". One obvious question is what the pollinators at deeper nodes were in the phylogeny of this genus of plants. Under maximum parsimony, an ancestral state reconstruction for this clade reveals that \"hummingbird\" is the most parsimonious ancestral state for the lower clade (plants D, E, F), that the ancestral states for the nodes in the top clade (plants A, B, C) are equivocal and that both \"hummingbird\" or \"bee\" pollinators are equally plausible for the pollination state at the root of the phylogeny. Supposing we have strong evidence from the fossil record that the root state is \"hummingbird\". Resolution of the root to \"hummingbird\" would yield the pattern of ancestral state reconstruction depicted by the symbols at the nodes (Figure 1) with the state requiring the fewest number of changes circled.\n\nParsimony methods are intuitively appealing and highly efficient, such that they are still used in some cases to seed maximum likelihood optimization algorithms with an initial phylogeny. However, the underlying assumption that evolution attained a certain end result as fast as possible is inaccurate. Natural selection and evolution do not work towards a goal, they simply select for or against randomly occurring genetic changes. Parsimony methods impose six general assumptions: that the phylogenetic tree you are using is correct, that you have all of the relevant data, in which no mistakes were made in coding, that all branches of the phylogenetic tree are equally likely to change, that the rate of evolution is slow, and that the chance of losing or gaining a characteristic is the same. In reality, assumptions are often violated, leading to several issues:\n\n\nMaximum likelihood (ML) methods of ancestral state reconstruction treat the character states at internal nodes of the tree as parameters, and attempt to find the parameter values that maximize the probability of the data (the observed character states) given the hypothesis (a model of evolution and a phylogeny relating the observed sequences or taxa). In other words, this method assumes that the ancestral states are those which are statistically most likely, given the observed phenotypes. Some of the earliest ML approaches to ancestral reconstruction were developed in the context of genetic sequence evolution; similar models were also developed for the analogous case of discrete character evolution.\n\nThe use of a model of evolution accounts for the fact that not all events are equally likely to happen. For example, a transition, which is a type of point mutation from one purine to another, or from one pyrimidine to another is much more likely to happen than a transversion, which is the chance of a purine being switched to a pyrimidine, or vice versa. These differences are not captured by maximum parsimony. However, just because some events are more likely than others does not mean that they always happen. We know that throughout evolutionary history there have been times when there was a large gap between what was most likely to happen, and what actually occurred. When this is the case, maximum parsimony may actually be more accurate because it is more willing to make large, unlikely leaps than maximum likelihood is. Maximum likelihood has been shown to be quite reliable in reconstructing character states, but it does not do as good of a job at giving accurate estimations of the stability of proteins. Maximum likelihood always overestimates the stability of proteins, which makes sense since it assumes that the proteins that were made and used were the most stable and optimal. The merits of maximum likelihood have been subject to debate, with some having concluded that maximum likelihood test represents a good medium between accuracy and speed. However, other studies have complained that maximum likelihood takes too much time and computational power to be useful in some scenarios.\n\nThese approaches employ the same probabilistic framework as used to infer the phylogenetic tree. In brief, the evolution of a genetic sequence is modelled by a time-reversible continuous time Markov process. In the simplest of these, all characters undergo independent state transitions (such as nucleotide substitutions) at a constant rate over time. This basic model is frequently extended to allow different rates on each branch of the tree. In reality, mutation rates may also vary over time (due, for example, to environmental changes); this can be modelled by allowing the rate parameters to evolve along the tree, at the expense of having an increased number of parameters. A model defines transition probabilities from states \"i\" to \"j\" along a branch of length \"t\" (in units of evolutionary time). The likelihood of a phylogeny is computed from a nested sum of transition probabilities that corresponds to the hierarchical structure of the proposed tree. At each node, the likelihood of its descendants is summed over all possible ancestral character states at that node:\nformula_1\nwhere we are computing the likelihood of the subtree rooted at node \"x\" with direct descendants \"y\" and \"z\", formula_2 denotes the character state of the \"i\"-th node, formula_3 is the branch length (evolutionary time) between nodes \"i\" and \"j\", and formula_4 is the set of all possible character states (for example, the nucleotides A, C, G, and T). Thus, the objective of ancestral reconstruction is to find the assignment to formula_5 for all \"x\" internal nodes that maximizes the likelihood of the observed data for a given tree.\n\nRather than compute the overall likelihood for alternative trees, the problem for ancestral reconstruction is to find the combination of character states at each ancestral node with the highest marginal maximum likelihood. Generally speaking, there are two approaches to this problem. First, one can assign the most likely character state to each ancestor independently of the reconstruction of all other ancestral states. This approach is referred to as \"marginal reconstruction\". It is akin to summing over all combinations of ancestral states at all of the other nodes of the tree (including the root node), other than those for which data is available. Second, one may instead attempt to find the joint combination of ancestral character states throughout the tree which jointly maximizes the likelihood of the data. Thus, this approach is referred to as joint reconstruction. Not surprisingly, joint reconstruction is more computationally complex than marginal reconstruction. Nevertheless, efficient algorithms for joint reconstruction have been developed with a time complexity that is generally linear with the number of observed taxa or sequences.\n\nML-based methods of ancestral reconstruction tend to provide greater accuracy than MP methods in the presence of variation in rates of evolution among characters (or across sites in a genome). However, these methods are not yet able to accommodate variation in rates of evolution over time, otherwise known as heterotachy. If the rate of evolution for a specific character accelerates on a branch of the phylogeny, then the amount of evolution that has occurred on that branch will be underestimated for a given length of the branch and assuming a constant rate of evolution for that character. In addition to that, it is difficult to distinguish heterotachy from variation among characters in rates of evolution.\n\nSince ML (unlike maximum parsimony) requires the investigator to specify a model of evolution, its accuracy may be affected by the use of a grossly incorrect model (model misspecification). Furthermore, ML can only provide a single reconstruction of character states (what is often referred to as a \"point estimate\") — when the likelihood surface is highly non-convex, comprising multiple peaks (local optima), then a single point estimate cannot provide an adequate representation, and a Bayesian approach may be more suitable.\n\nBayesian inference uses the likelihood of observed data to update the investigator's belief, or prior distribution, to yield the posterior distribution. In the context of ancestral reconstruction, the objective is to infer the posterior probabilities of ancestral character states at each internal node of a given tree. Moreover, one can integrate these probabilities over the posterior distributions over the parameters of the evolutionary model and the space of all possible trees. This can be expressed as an application of Bayes' theorem:\n\nformula_6\n\nwhere \"S\" represents the ancestral states, \"D\" corresponds to the observed data, and formula_7 represents both the evolutionary model and the phylogenetic tree. formula_8 is the likelihood of the observed data which can be computed by Felsenstein's pruning algorithm as given above. formula_9 is the prior probability of the ancestral states for a given model and tree. Finally, formula_10 is the probability of the data for a given model and tree, integrated over all possible ancestral states.\n\nBayesian inference is the method that many have argued is the most accurate. In general, Bayesian statistical methods allow investigators to combine pre-existing information with new hypothesis. In the case of evolution, it combines the likelihood of the data observed with the likelihood that the events happened in the order they did, while recognizing the potential for error and uncertainty. Overall, it is the most accurate method for reconstructing ancestral genetic sequences, as well as protein stability. Unlike the other two methods, Bayesian inference yields a distribution of possible trees, allowing for more accurate and easily interpretable estimates of the variance of possible outcomes.\n\nWe have given two formulations above to emphasize the two different applications of Bayes' theorem, which we discuss in the following section.\n\nOne of the first implementations of a Bayesian approach to ancestral sequence reconstruction was developed by Yang and colleagues, where the maximum likelihood estimates of the evolutionary model and tree, respectively, were used to define the prior distributions. Thus, their approach is an example of an empirical Bayes method to compute the posterior probabilities of ancestral character states; this method was first implemented in the software package PAML. In terms of the above Bayesian rule formulation, the empirical Bayes method fixes formula_7 to the empirical estimates of the model and tree obtained from the data, effectively dropping formula_7 from the posterior likelihood, and prior terms of the formula. Moreover, Yang and colleagues used the empirical distribution of site patterns (i.e., assignments of nucleotides to tips of the tree) in their alignment of observed nucleotide sequences in the denominator in place of exhaustively computing formula_13 over all possible values of \"S\" given formula_7. Computationally, the empirical Bayes method is akin to the maximum likelihood reconstruction of ancestral states except that, rather than searching for the ML assignment of states based on their respective probability distributions at each internal node, the probability distributions themselves are reported directly.\n\nEmpirical Bayes methods for ancestral reconstruction require the investigator to assume that the evolutionary model parameters and tree are known without error. When the size or complexity of the data makes this an unrealistic assumption, it may be more prudent to adopt the fully hierarchical Bayesian approach and infer the joint posterior distribution over the ancestral character states, model, and tree. Huelsenbeck and Bollback first proposed a hierarchical Bayes method to ancestral reconstruction by using Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods to sample ancestral sequences from this joint posterior distribution. A similar approach was also used to reconstruct the evolution of symbiosis with algae in fungal species (lichenization). For example, the Metropolis-Hastings algorithm for MCMC explores the joint posterior distribution by accepting or rejecting parameter assignments on the basis of the ratio of posterior probabilities.\n\nPut simply, the empirical Bayes approach calculates the probabilities of various ancestral states for a specific tree and model of evolution. By expressing the reconstruction of ancestral states as a set of probabilities, one can directly quantify the uncertainty for assigning any particular state to an ancestor. On the other hand, the hierarchical Bayes approach averages these probabilities over all possible trees and models of evolution, in proportion to how likely these trees and models are, given the data that has been observed.\n\nWhether the hierarchical Bayes method confers a substantial advantage in practice remains controversial, however. Moreover, this fully Bayesian approach is limited to analyzing relatively small numbers of sequences or taxa because the space of all possible trees rapidly becomes too vast, making it computationally infeasible for chain samples to converge in a reasonable amount of time.\n\nAncestral reconstruction can be informed by the observed states in historical samples of known age, such as fossils or archival specimens. Since the accuracy of ancestral reconstruction generally decays with increasing time, the use of such specimens provides data that are closer to the ancestors being reconstructed and will most likely improve the analysis, especially when rates of character change vary through time. This concept has been validated by an experimental evolutionary study in which replicate populations of bacteriophage T7 were propagated to generate an artificial phylogeny. In revisiting these experimental data, Oakley and Cunningham found that maximum parsimony methods were unable to accurately reconstruct the known ancestral state of a continuous character (plaque size); these results were verified by computer simulation. This failure of ancestral reconstruction was attributed to a directional bias in the evolution of plaque size (from large to small plaque diameters) that required the inclusion of \"fossilized\" samples to address.\n\nStudies of both mammalian carnivores and fishes have demonstrated that without incorporating fossil data, the reconstructed estimates of ancestral body sizes are unrealistically large. Moreover, Graham Slater and colleagues showed using caniform carnivorans that incorporating fossil data into prior distributions improved both the Bayesian inference of ancestral states and evolutionary model selection, relative to analyses using only contemporaneous data.\n\nMany models have been developed to estimate ancestral states of discrete and continuous characters from extant descendants. Such models assume that the evolution of a trait through time may be modelled as a stochastic process. For discrete-valued traits (such as \"pollinator type\"), this process is typically taken to be a Markov chain; for continuous-valued traits (such as \"brain size\"), the process is frequently taken to be a Brownian motion or an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process. Using this model as the basis for statistical inference, one can now use maximum likelihood methods or Bayesian inference to estimate the ancestral states.\n\nSuppose the trait in question may fall into one of formula_15 states, labelled formula_16. The typical means of modelling evolution of this trait is via a continuous-time Markov chain, which may be briefly described as follows (cf. Figure 2). Each state has associated to it rates of transition to all of the other states. The trait is modelled as stepping between the formula_15 states; when it reaches a given state, it starts an exponential \"clock\" for each of the other states that it can step to. It then \"races\" the clocks against each other, and it takes a step towards the state whose clock is the first to ring. In such a model, the parameters are the transition rates formula_18, which can be estimated using, for example, maximum likelihood methods, where one maximizes over the set of all possible configurations of states of the ancestral nodes. \n\nIn order to recover the state of a given ancestral node in the phylogeny (call this node formula_19) by maximum likelihood, the procedure is: find the maximum likelihood estimate formula_20 of formula_21; then compute the likelihood of each possible state for formula_19 conditioning on formula_23; finally, choose the ancestral state which maximizes this. One may also use this substitution model as the basis for a Bayesian inference procedure, which would consider the posterior belief in the state of an ancestral node given some user-chosen prior.\n\nBecause such models may have as many as formula_24 parameters, overfitting may be an issue. Some common choices that reduce the parameter space are:\n\n\nThe binary state speciation and extinction model (BiSSE) is a discrete-space model that does not directly follow the framework of those mentioned above. It allows estimation of ancestral binary character states jointly with diversification rates associated with different character states; it may also be straightforwardly extended to a more general multiple-discrete-state model. In its most basic form, this model involves six parameters: two speciation rates (one each for lineages in states 0 and 1); similarly, two extinction rates; and two rates of character change. This model allows for hypothesis testing on the rates of speciation/extinction/character change, at the cost of increasing the number of parameters.\n\nIn the case where the trait instead takes non-discrete values, one must instead turn to a model where the trait evolves as some continuous process. Inference of ancestral states by maximum likelihood (or by Bayesian methods) would proceed as above, but with the likelihoods of transitions in state between adjacent nodes given by some other continuous probability distribution.\n\n\nAncestral reconstruction is widely used to infer the ecological, phenotypic, or biogeographic traits associated with ancestral nodes in a phylogenetic tree. It should be noted that all methods of ancestral trait reconstructions have pitfalls, as they use mathematical models to predict how traits have changed with large amounts of missing data. This missing data includes the states of extinct species, the relative rates of evolutionary changes, knowledge of initial character states, and the accuracy of phylogenetic trees. In all cases where ancestral trait reconstruction is used, findings should be justified with an examination of the biological data that supports model based conclusions. Griffith O.W. \"et al.\"\n\nAncestral reconstruction allows for the study of evolutionary pathways, adaptive selection, and functional divergence of the evolutionary past. For a review of biological and computational techniques of ancestral reconstruction see Chang \"et al.\". For criticism of ancestral reconstruction computation methods see Williams P.D. \"et al.\".\n\nIn horned lizards (genus \"Phrynosoma\"), viviparity (live birth) has evolved multiple times, based on ancestral reconstruction methods.\n\nBoth phylogenetic and character data are available for the radiation of finches inhabiting the Galapagos Islands. These data allow testing of hypotheses concerning the timing and ordering of character state changes through time via ancestral state reconstruction. During the dry season, the diets of the 13 species of Galapagos finches may be assorted into three broad diet categories, first those that consume grain-like foods are considered \"granivores\", those that ingest arthropods are termed \"insectivores\" and those that consume vegetation are classified as \"folivores\". Dietary ancestral state reconstruction using maximum parsimony recover 2 major shifts from an insectivorous state: one to granivory, and one to folivory. Maximum-likelihood ancestral state reconstruction recovers broadly similar results, with one significant difference: the common ancestor of the tree finch (\"Camarhynchus\") and ground finch (\"Geospiza\") clades are most likely granivorous rather than insectivorous (as judged by parsimony). In this case, this difference between ancestral states returned by maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood likely occurs as a result of the fact that ML estimates consider branch lengths of the phylogenetic tree.\n\nPhrynosomatid lizards show remarkable morphological diversity, including in the relative muscle fiber type composition in their hindlimb muscles. Ancestor reconstruction based on squared-change parsimony (equivalent to maximum likelihood under Brownian motion character evolution) indicates that horned lizards, one of the three main subclades of the lineage, have undergone a major evolutionary increase in the proportion of fast-oxidative glycolytic fibers in their iliofibularis muscles.\n\nIn an analysis of the body mass of 1,679 placental mammal species comparing stable models of continuous character evolution to Brownian motion models, Elliot and Mooers showed that the evolutionary process describing mammalian body mass evolution is best characterized by a stable model of continuous character evolution, which accommodates rare changes of large magnitude. Under a stable model, ancestral mammals retained a low body mass through early diversification, with large increases in body mass coincident with the origin of several Orders of large body massed species (e.g. ungulates). By contrast, simulation under a Brownian motion model recovered a less realistic, order of magnitude larger body mass among ancestral mammals, requiring significant reductions in body size prior to the evolution of Orders exhibiting small body size (e.g. Rodentia). Thus stable models recover a more realistic picture of mammalian body mass evolution by permitting large transformations to occur on a small subset of branches.\n\nPhylogenetic comparative methods (inferences drawn through comparison of related taxa) are often used to identify biological characteristics that do not evolve independently, which can reveal an underlying dependence. For example, the evolution of the shape of a finch's beak may be associated with its foraging behaviour. However, it is not advisable to search for these associations by the direct comparison of measurements or genetic sequences because these observations are not independent because of their descent from common ancestors. For discrete characters, this problem was first addressed in the framework of maximum parsimony by evaluating whether two characters tended to undergo a change on the same branches of the tree. Felsenstein identified this problem for continuous character evolution and proposed a solution similar to ancestral reconstruction, in which the phylogenetic structure of the data was accommodated statistically by directing the analysis through computation of \"independent contrasts\" between nodes of the tree related by non-overlapping branches.\n\nOn a molecular level, amino acid residues at different locations of a protein may evolve non-independently because they have a direct physicochemical interaction, or indirectly by their interactions with a common substrate or through long-range interactions in the protein structure. Conversely, the folded structure of a protein could potentially be inferred from the distribution of residue interactions. One of the earliest applications of ancestral reconstruction, to predict the three-dimensional structure of a protein through residue contacts, was published by Shindyalov and colleagues. Phylogenies relating 67 different protein families were generated by a distance-based clustering method (unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean, UPGMA), and ancestral sequences were reconstructed by parsimony. The authors reported a weak but significant tendency for co-evolving pairs of residues to be co-located in the known three-dimensional structure of the proteins.\n\nThe reconstruction of ancient proteins and DNA sequences has only recently become a significant scientific endeavour. The developments of extensive genomic sequence databases in conjunction with advances in biotechnology and phylogenetic inference methods have made ancestral reconstruction cheap, fast, and scientifically practical. This concept has been applied to identify co-evolving residues in protein sequences using more advanced methods for the reconstruction of phylogenies and ancestral sequences. For example, ancestral reconstruction has been used to identify co-evolving residues in proteins encoded by RNA virus genomes, particularly in HIV.\n\nAncestral protein and DNA reconstruction allows for the recreation of protein and DNA evolution in the laboratory so that it can be studied directly. With respect to proteins, this allows for the investigation of the evolution of present-day molecular structure and function. Additionally, ancestral protein reconstruction can lead to the discoveries of new biochemical functions that have been lost in modern proteins. It also allows insights into the biology and ecology of extinct organisms. Although the majority of ancestral reconstructions have dealt with proteins, it has also been used to test evolutionary mechanisms at the level of bacterial genomes and primate gene sequences.\n\nRNA viruses such as the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) evolve at an extremely rapid rate, orders of magnitude faster than mammals or birds. For these organisms, ancestral reconstruction can be applied on a much shorter time scale; for example, in order to reconstruct the global or regional progenitor of an epidemic that has spanned decades rather than millions of years. A team around Brian Gaschen proposed that such reconstructed strains be used as targets for vaccine design efforts, as opposed to sequences isolated from patients in the present day. Because HIV is extremely diverse, a vaccine designed to work on one patient's viral population might not work for a different patient, because the evolutionary distance between these two viruses may be large. However, their most recent common ancestor is closer to each of the two viruses than they are to each other. Thus, a vaccine designed for a common ancestor could have a better chance of being effective for a larger proportion of circulating strains. Another team took this idea further by developing a center-of-tree reconstruction method to produce a sequence whose total evolutionary distance to contemporary strains is as small as possible. Strictly speaking, this method was not \"ancestral\" reconstruction, as the center-of-tree (COT) sequence does not necessarily represent a sequence that has ever existed in the evolutionary history of the virus. However, Rolland and colleagues did find that, in the case of HIV, the COT virus was functional when synthesized. Similar experiments with synthetic ancestral sequences obtained by maximum likelihood reconstruction have likewise shown that these ancestors are both functional and immunogenic, lending some credibility to these methods. Furthermore, ancestral reconstruction can potentially be used to infer the genetic sequence of the transmitted HIV variants that have gone on to establish the next infection, with the objective of identifying distinguishing characteristics of these variants (as a non-random selection of the transmitted population of viruses) that may be targeted for vaccine design.\n\nRather than inferring the ancestral DNA sequence, one may be interested in the larger-scale molecular structure and content of an ancestral genome. This problem is often approached in a combinatorial framework, by modelling genomes as permutations of genes or homologous regions. Various operations are allowed on these permutations, such as an inversion (a segment of the permutation is reversed in-place), deletion (a segment is removed), transposition (a segment is removed from one part of the permutation and spliced in somewhere else), or gain of genetic content through recombination, duplication or horizontal gene transfer. The \"genome rearrangement problem\", first posed by Watterson and colleagues, asks: given two genomes (permutations) and a set of allowable operations, what is the shortest sequence of operations that will transform one genome into the other? A generalization of this problem applicable to ancestral reconstruction is the \"multiple genome rearrangement problem\": given a set of genomes and a set of allowable operations, find (i) a binary tree with the given genomes as its leaves, and (ii) an assignment of genomes to the internal nodes of the tree, such that the total number of operations across the whole tree is minimized. This approach is similar to parsimony, except that the tree is inferred along with the ancestral sequences. Unfortunately, even the single genome rearrangement problem is NP-hard, although it has received much attention in mathematics and computer science (for a review, see Fertin and colleagues).\n\nThe reconstruction of ancestral genomes is also called karyotype reconstruction. Chromosome painting is currently the main experimental technique. Recently, researchers have developed computational methods to reconstruct the ancestral karyotype by taking advantage of comparative genomics. Furthermore, comparative genomics and ancestral genome reconstruction has been applied to identify ancient horizontal gene transfer events at the last common ancestor of a lineage (e.g. \"Candidatus\" Accumulibacter phosphatis) to identify the evolutionary basis for trait acquisition.\n\nAncestral reconstruction is not limited to biological traits. Spatial location is also a trait, and ancestral reconstruction methods can infer the locations of ancestors of the individuals under consideration. Such techniques were used by Lemey and colleagues to geographically trace the ancestors of 192 Avian influenza A-H5N1 strains sampled from twenty localities in Europe and Asia, and for 101 rabies virus sequences sampled across twelve African countries.\n\nTreating locations as discrete states (countries, cities, etc.) allows for the application of the discrete-state models described above. However, unlike in a model where the state space for the trait is small, there may be many locations, and transitions between certain pairs of states may rarely or never occur; for example, migration between distant locales may never happen directly if air travel between the two places does not exist, so such migrations must pass through intermediate locales first. This means that there could be many parameters in the model which are zero or close to zero. To this end, Lemey and colleagues used a Bayesian procedure to not only estimate the parameters and ancestral states, but also to select which migration parameters are not zero; their work suggests that this procedure does lead to more efficient use of the data. They also explore the use of prior distributions that incorporate geographical structure or hypotheses about migration dynamics, finding that those they considered had little effect on the findings.\n\nUsing this analysis, the team around Lemey found that the most likely hub of diffusion of A-H5N1 is Guangdong, with Hong Kong also receiving posterior support. Further, their results support the hypothesis of long-standing presence of African rabies in West Africa.\n\nInferring historical biogeographic patterns often requires reconstructing ancestral ranges of species on phylogenetic trees. For instance, a well-resolved phylogeny of plant species in the genus \"Cyrtandra\" was used together with information of their geographic ranges to compare four methods of ancestral range reconstruction. The team compared Fitch parsimony, (FP; parsimony) stochastic mapping (SM; maximum likelihood), dispersal-vicariance analysis (DIVA; parsimony), and dispersal-extinction-cladogenesis (DEC; maximum-likelihood). Results indicated that both parsimony methods performed poorly, which was likely due to the fact that parsimony methods do not consider branch lengths. Both maximum-likelihood methods performed better; however, DEC analyses that additionally allow incorporation of geological priors gave more realistic inferences about range evolution in \"Cyrtandra\" relative to other methods.\n\nAnother maximum likelihood method recovers the phylogeographic history of a gene by reconstructing the ancestral locations of the sampled taxa. This method assumes a spatially explicit random walk model of migration to reconstruct ancestral locations given the geographic coordinates of the individuals represented by the tips of the phylogenetic tree. When applied to a phylogenetic tree of chorus frogs \"Pseudacris feriarum\", this method recovered recent northward expansion, higher per-generation dispersal distance in the recently colonized region, a non-central ancestral location, and directional migration.\n\nThe first consideration of the multiple genome rearrangement problem, long before its formalization in terms of permutations, was presented by Sturtevant and Dobzhansky in 1936. They examined genomes of several strains of fruit fly from different geographic locations, and observed that one configuration, which they called \"standard\", was the most common throughout all the studied areas. Remarkably, they also noticed that four different strains could be obtained from the standard sequence by a single inversion, and two others could be related by a second inversion. This allowed them to hypothesize a phylogeny for the sequences, and to infer that the standard sequence was probably also the ancestral one.\n\nReconstructions of the words and phenomes of ancient proto-languages such as Proto-Indo-European have been performed based on the observed analogues in present-day languages. Typically, these analyses are carried out manually using the \"comparative method\". First, words from different languages with a common etymology (cognates) are identified in the contemporary languages under study, analogous to the identification of orthologous biological sequences. Second, correspondences between individual sounds in the cognates are identified, a step similar to biological sequence alignment, although performed manually. Finally, likely ancestral sounds are hypothesised by manual inspection and various heuristics (such as the fact that most languages have both nasal and non-nasal vowels).\n\nThere are many software packages available which can perform ancestral state reconstruction. Generally, these software packages have been developed and maintained through the efforts of scientists in related fields and released under free software licenses. The following table is not meant to be a comprehensive itemization of all available packages, but provides a representative sample of the extensive variety of packages that implement methods of ancestral reconstruction with different strengths and features.\n\nThe majority of these software packages are designed for analyzing genetic sequence data. For example, PAML is a collection of programs for the phylogenetic analysis of DNA and protein sequence alignments by maximum likelihood. Ancestral reconstruction can be performed using the \"codeml\" program. In addition, LAZARUS is a collection of Python scripts that wrap the ancestral reconstruction functions of PAML for batch processing and greater ease-of-use. HyPhy, Mesquite, and MEGA are also software packages for the phylogenetic analysis of sequence data, but are designed to be more modular and customizable. HyPhy implements a joint maximum likelihood method of ancestral sequence reconstruction that can be readily adapted to reconstructing a more generalized range of discrete ancestral character states such as geographic locations by specifying a customized model in its batch language. Mesquite provides ancestral state reconstruction methods for both discrete and continuous characters using both maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood methods. It also provides several visualization tools for interpreting the results of ancestral reconstruction. MEGA is a modular system, too, but places greater emphasis on ease-of-use than customization of analyses. As of version 5, MEGA allows the user to reconstruct ancestral states using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and empirical Bayes methods.\n\nThe Bayesian analysis of genetic sequences may confer greater robustness to model misspecification. MrBayes allows inference of ancestral states at ancestral nodes using the full hierarchical Bayesian approach. The PREQUEL program distributed in the PHAST package performs comparative evolutionary genomics using ancestral sequence reconstruction. SIMMAP stochastically maps mutations on phylogenies. BayesTraits analyses discrete or continuous characters in a Bayesian framework to evaluate models of evolution, reconstruct ancestral states, and detect correlated evolution between pairs of traits.\n\nOther software packages are more oriented towards the analysis of qualitative and quantitative traits (phenotypes). For example, the \"ape\" package in the statistical computing environment R also provides methods for ancestral state reconstruction for both discrete and continuous characters through the \"ace\" function, including maximum likelihood. (Note that \"ace\" performs reconstruction by computing scaled conditional likelihoods instead of the marginal or joint likelihoods used by other maximum likelihood-based methods for ancestral reconstruction, which may adversely affect the accuracy of reconstruction at nodes other than the root .) Phyrex implements a maximum parsimony-based algorithm to reconstruct ancestral gene expression profiles, in addition to a maximum likelihood method for reconstructing ancestral genetic sequences (by wrapping around the baseml function in PAML).\n\nSeveral software packages also reconstruct phylogeography. BEAST (Bayesian Evolutionary Analysis by Sampling Trees) provides tools for reconstructing ancestral geographic locations from observed sequences annotated with location data using Bayesian MCMC sampling methods. Diversitree is an R package providing methods for ancestral state reconstruction under Mk2 (a continuous time Markov model of binary character evolution.) and BiSSE (Binary State Speciation and Extinction) models. Lagrange performs analyses on reconstruction of geographic range evolution on phylogenetic trees. Phylomapper is a statistical framework for estimating historical patterns of gene flow and ancestral geographic locations. RASP infers ancestral states using statistical dispersal-vicariance analysis, Lagrange, Bayes-Lagrange, BayArea and BBM methods. VIP infers historical biogeography by examining disjunct geographic distributions.\n\nGenome rearrangements provide valuable information in comparative genomics between species. ANGES compares extant related genomes through ancestral reconstruction of genetic markers. BADGER uses a Bayesian approach to examining the history of gene rearrangement. Count reconstructs the evolution of the size of gene families. EREM analyses the gain and loss of genetic features encoded by binary characters. PARANA performs parsimony based inference of ancestral biological networks that represent gene loss and duplication.\n\nFinally, there are several web-server based applications that allow investigators to use maximum likelihood methods for ancestral reconstruction of different character types without having to install any software. For example, Ancestors is web-server for ancestral genome reconstruction by the identification and arrangement of syntenic regions. FastML is a web-server for probabilistic reconstruction of ancestral sequences by maximum likelihood that uses a gap character model for reconstructing indel variation. MLGO is a web-server for maximum likelihood gene order analysis.\n\nThe development and application of computational algorithms for ancestral reconstruction continues to be an active area of research across disciplines. For example, the reconstruction of sequence insertions and deletions (indels) has lagged behind the more straightforward application of substitution models. Bouchard-Côté and Jordan recently described a new model (the Poisson Indel Process) which represents an important advance on the archetypal Thorne-Kishino-Felsenstein model of indel evolution. In addition, the field is being driven forward by rapid advances in the area of next-generation sequencing technology, where sequences are generated from millions of nucleic acid templates by extensive parallelization of sequencing reactions in a custom apparatus. These advances have made it possible to generate a \"deep\" snapshot of the genetic composition of a rapidly evolving population, such as RNA viruses or tumour cells, in a relatively short amount of time. At the same time, the massive amount of data and platform-specific sequencing error profiles has created new bioinformatic challenges for processing these data for ancestral sequence reconstruction.\n\n"}
{"id": "40974572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40974572", "title": "Apache Allura", "text": "Apache Allura\n\nAllura can manage any number of projects, including groups of projects known as Neighborhoods, as well as sub-projects under individual projects. Allura also has a modular design to support tools attached to neighborhoods or individual projects. Allura comes packaged with many tools, and additional external and third-party tools can be installed. There are tools to manage version control for source code repositories, ticket tracking, discussions, wiki pages, blogs and more.\n\nAllura can also export project data, as well as import data from a variety of sources, such as Trac, Google Code, GitHub, and, of course, Allura itself.\n\nMost tools support Markdown formatting, threaded comments with integrated and configurable spam prevention, group or individual artifact level subscriptions via email or RSS, and powerful searching using Solr. Additionally, the Markdown syntax supports cross-linking, such that a commit can refer to a specific ticket, a comment on a discussion thread can easily link to a commit, or a wiki page can even link directly to a specific comment in a discussion thread. Allura also has a powerful permissions system that gives fine-grained control over who has access to do what.\n\nAllura comes packaged with tools for managing Git and SVN repositories. There is also a tool for managing Mercurial repositories, which is packaged separately for license reasons.\n\nVersion control integration includes:\n\n\n\n\n\nAllura began in October 2009 as an open-source reimplementation in Python of the developer tools for SourceForge (previously written in PHP), and was first announced in March 2011. Allura became the default platform for new projects on SourceForge in July 2011.\n\nIn June 2012, Allura was submitted to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) and began incubation to become an Apache project. Allura was moved to the ASF to encourage community engagement and to ensure an open and community oriented development process. Allura graduated to a top-level Apache project in March 2013.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36450974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36450974", "title": "Arnór Hannibalsson", "text": "Arnór Hannibalsson\n\nArnór Hannibalsson (1934–2012) was an Icelandic philosopher, historian, and translator and former professor of philosophy at the University of Iceland. He completed a master's degree in philosophy at the University of Moscow and a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland.\n\nHe was predominantly concerned with aesthetics, philosophy, history, epistemology, and science. In 1975 he translated Roman Ingarden's \"On the Motives which led Husserl to Transcendental Idealism\" from Polish. He also contributed to journals with articles such as \"Icelandic Historical Science in the Postwar Period, 1944-1957\".\n\nArnór had strong anti-Communist views and was said to have been \"extremely critical of the Icelandic Socialists\" in his 1999/2000 book \"Moskvulínan: Kommúnistaflokkur Íslands og Komintern, Halldór Laxness og Sovétríkin\".\n\nHe was the son of Hannibal Valdimarsson, a former minister, and had several sons and one daughter, Thora Arnorsdottir.\n\nHe died on December 28, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "36864151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36864151", "title": "Biology and Philosophy", "text": "Biology and Philosophy\n\nBiology and Philosophy is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes articles about philosophy of biology, broadly understood to span conceptual, theoretical, and methodological issues in the biological sciences. \n\nThe journal was founded by Michael Ruse in 1986, edited by him from 1986 to 2000, then edited by Kim Sterelny from 2000 to 2016, and it is currently edited by Michael Weisberg. It is published by Springer.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in the following databases\nIts 2011 impact factor was 1.203.\n"}
{"id": "48632496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48632496", "title": "Bleri Lleshi", "text": "Bleri Lleshi\n\nBlerim Gjonpalaj, better known by his pen name Bleri Lleshi is an Albanian philosopher and public speaker . He is an activist, dj, and author based in Brussels. His research focuses on topics such as inequality, neoliberalism, youth, migration, identities, and extremism.\n\nLleshi was born in 1981 in Albania. He writes for various Belgian media such as \"De Morgen\" and \"MO*\", but also English ones such as \"EUObserver\" and \"The Brussels Times\".\n\nLleshi has participated in conferences, debates, and media such as Euronews, BBC, Channel4, etc. In 2014, he was considered as one of the most influential immigrants in Belgium. In December 2018 he was named ambassador of peace for 2018 by Pax Christi. Lleshi is lecturer at UCLL in Leuven.\n\nLleshi has also an artistic project as a DJ. His artist name is Bruselo (pr. brusé:lo), Esperanto for Brussels. As DJ he plays recorded music from all over the world such as Balkanic, cumbia, afrobeat, soukous, arabesque, to hip hop, dancehall, and reggae. He is also the organizer and resident DJ of Globalicious, a monthly event in Brussels with concerts, international guests, dance workshops and dj's.\n\n"}
{"id": "25334487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25334487", "title": "Charles Mackinnon Douglas", "text": "Charles Mackinnon Douglas\n\nCharles Mackinnon Douglas (2 October 1865 – 3 February 1924) was a Scottish philosopher, agriculturist and Member of Parliament who represented North West Lanarkshire from 1899 to 1906.\n\nDouglas was born in Edinburgh, and was educated at Edinburgh Academy, the University of Edinburgh and the University of Freiburg. He graduated the University of Edinburgh with first-class honours in philosophy in 1892 and later earned a doctorate from the same institution. He lectured at the university on moral philosophy for seven years. He was the author of studies of English philosopher John Stuart Mill, and co-authored a treatise with Dutch philosopher Cornelis Tiele.\n\nHe won a seat in Parliament at a by-election in 1899, was re-elected in 1900, but lost in 1906. Unhappy with the Liberal government, he stood unsuccessfully as a Unionist in South Lanarkshire in December 1910.\n\nDuring the First World War, he was Chairman of the Lanarkshire Territorial Force Association. He was made a Companion of the Order of the Bath in the 1918 New Year Honours.\n\nHe was chairman of the Scottish Council of Agriculture, chairman of directors of the Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland and president of the Scottish Agricultural Organization Society and Scottish Chamber of Agriculture. In 1919, he was a member of a Royal Commission on agriculture in Great Britain.\n\nIn 1895, he married Anne Isabel (\"née\" Tod). He died in Lesmahagow in 1924.\n"}
{"id": "875526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=875526", "title": "Christian von Ehrenfels", "text": "Christian von Ehrenfels\n\nChristian von Ehrenfels (also \"Maria Christian Julius Leopold Freiherr von Ehrenfels\"; 20 June 1859 – 8 September 1932) was an Austrian philosopher, and is known as one of the founders and precursors of Gestalt psychology.\n\nChristian von Ehrenfels was born on 20 June 1859 in Rodaun near Vienna and grew up at his father's castle Brunn am Walde in Lower Austria. He joined secondary school in Krems and first studied at the Hochschule für Bodenkultur in Vienna and then changed to the Universität Wien.\n\nThere he studied philosophy, was a pupil of Franz Brentano and Alexius Meinong, promoted under supervision of Meinong, following him after his move to the Karl-Franzens-Universität (Graz), in 1885 on the topic of \"Größenrelationen und Zahlen. Eine psychologische Studie\" (\"Relations of magnitude and numbers. A psychological study\"). He obtained his habilitiation in 1888 in Vienna with the work \"Über Fühlen und Wollen\" (\"On feeling and willing\"). From 1896 to 1929 he was professor of philosophy at the German university of Prague. Interested in his lectures were among others Max Brod, Franz Kafka and Felix Weltsch.\n\nThe idea of \"Gestalt\" has its roots in theories by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Ernst Mach. Max Wertheimer is to be credited as the founder of the movement of \"Gestalt\" psychology. The concept of \"Gestalt\" itself was first introduced in contemporary philosophy and psychology by Ehrenfels in his famous work \"Über Gestaltqualitäten\" (\"On the Qualities of Form\", 1890). Both he and Edmund Husserl seem to have been inspired by Mach's work \"Beiträge zur Analyse der Empfindungen\" (\"Contributions to the Analysis of the Sensations\", 1886) to formulate their very similar concepts of \"Gestalt\" and Figural Moment respectively.\n\nHis analysis of the transition of a melody to another key became famous. Ehrenfels explained that a melody consists of individual sounds, but that it is considerably more than the sum of these notes. The individual notes would be able to join themselves for completely different melodies, while the melody would remain the same, if transposed into another key and containing single tones. This new opinion, that came up to a “perception of the whole” compared to its “parts” Ehrenfels called \"Gestaltqualitäten\" (\"Figure qualities\").\n\nCompare with: Aristotle (trans. 1952) “In the case of all things that have several parts and in which the whole is not like a heap, but is a particular something besides the parts, there must be some such uniting factor”.\n\nEhrenfels argued in numerous cultural-scientific and sexual-political writings against the cultural harmfulness of monogamy and for the utopia of a polygynian social order. He defended the opinion that monogamy would hinder a Darwinistic reproduction-logic and procreation-selection, which would have a devastating effect on society in a cultural-biological way and therefore monogamy should be combated. With those theories, Ehrenfels exposed himself to massive criticism, because he offered with his theories unimaginable thoughts to contemporary Western conventions. The basis of Ehrenfels's thinking about a new sexual order were expressed in a series of essays published in several academic journals in Germany and Austria between 1902-1910. In his essays, Ehrenfels began with the argument that men are not naturally monogamous, and that monogamy was something that had come to Europe with Christianity. Ehrenfels's starting point was that with many species of animals such as whales, walruses, elephants, lions, etc, the strongest male has a harem, which for him was sufficient proof that this was what nature had intended for humanity. Ehrenfels stated through monogamy had some useful functions such as the \"iron discipline\" it imposed on European men, on the whole Europeans had suffered terribly from the unnatural condition of monogamy, which had seriously interfered with the Darwinian progress of ensuring the survival of the fittest (Ehrenfels was an avid Social Darwinist). Ehrenfels believed polygamy was what nature had intended for men as it allowed the \"fittest\" men to father as many children as possible with as many as women as possible in a process of \"virile selection\". \n\nEhrenfels wrote with disgust that monogamy was \"that type of sexual life...that corresponded to the needs and capacities of women, at the cost of men\". By contrast, Ehrenfels believed that women were naturally monogamous, and that all that women desired was one good husband to look after them. Ehrenfels further believed that all social problems were caused by unnatural state of Christian monogamy, which caused a \"splitting\" between a man's \"day consciousness\" when he professed to believe in Christian marriage, and his \"night consciousness\", when a man's naturally aggressive, animistic sex drive come into play. Ehrenfels argued that this \"splitting\" within men between their \"day consciousness\" and \"night consciousness\" caused men all sorts of psychological trauma, and led to men acting in irrational, often violent ways. The specific example of the sort of male irrationality brought up by Enrenfels concerning this \"splitting\" was that of men abusing the prostitutes they visited. \n\nAdditionally, Ehrenfels argued this psychological \"splitting\" led to men to treat their wives badly as men were forced into the unnatural condition of monogamy, and that the feminist movement and the entire \"Women's Question\" had arose as a response; Enrenfels believed the \"Women's Question\" would naturally resolve itself if only husbands would learn to treat their wives better. Finally, Ehrenfels argued that the monogamy was at the root to the \"Social Question\" (by which meant Ehrenfels meant the rise of the Austrian Social Democratic Party) as it encouraged men to leave their fortunes to their children, something that Ehrenfels believed to be natural, but also something that \"very often contradicts the demands of social justice\". As a result of wealth being spread by \"privilegistic\" means as opposed to \"meritocratic\" means, the poor felt resentment and were voting for socialist parties, which promised to abolish inequality. Ehrenfels believed that humanity was naturally unequal, and the demand for universal human equality had to be fought as it totally unnatural. In a 1908 essay, the proud aristocrat Baron von Enrenfels called the demand for universal equality in the Austrian Empire being made by the Social Democrats \"preposterous\".\n\nMoreover, Ehrenfels was obsessed with the fear of the \"Yellow Peril\", and believed that Asian peoples were a deadly threat to European civilization. Ehrenfels wrote if nothing was done to stop the rise of China, that \"if there is no change in current practice, this will lead to the annihilation of the white race by the yellow race\". \n\nIn April 1895, the German Emperor Wilhelm II had a nightmare where all the nations of Europe appeared as \"prehistoric warrior goddesses\" who were protected by Germany which took the form of the Archangel Michael. To the East, they were threatened by a dark, stormy cloud in which a Chinese-style dragon carried a Buddha wreathed in fire under which marched millions of Asians who destroyed all in their path, killing all whites. After his nightmare, which Wilhelm regarded as a message from God about the coming, apocalyptic great \"race war\" between Europe and Asia which would decide the future of the 20th century, he had a painting of his nightmare done by his court painter Hermann Knackfuss in September 1895. The painting, which was known as the Yellow Peril painting was very popular in its time. Ehrenfels saw the Yellow Peril painting in December 1895 and was greatly impressed. From 1895 onwards, Ehrenfels was greatly influenced by the \"Yellow Peril\" propaganda put out by the German government, in which Wilhelm repeatedly warned of the alleged Asian menace to the West. As a Wagnerite who deeply involved in the various Wagner societies in Vienna, Ehrenfels got to know Prince Philip von Eulenburg, the German ambassador to Austria-Hungary and an anti-Asian racist who promoted the fear of the \"Yellow Peril\" to anybody who would listen. More broadly, Ehrenfels's \"Yellow Peril\" anti-Asian racism was part of an environment in which non-white men were depicted as threatening to rape white women. In this racist viewpoint, to protect their women from being raped, white men would have to wage a \"primitive\" and \"primordial\" racial war against the \"Yellow Peril\", which justified both white supremacy and male supremacy. The same sort of language and imagery was always frequently invoked with the fears about a \"race war\" with the blacks and the Jews. European racists often considered the Jews to be a race apart from the rest of humanity, and so the Jews were lumped in with the blacks and the Asians.\n\nEhrenfels believed that Asians were especially dangerous enemies of the Europeans because in East Asia, polygamy was accepted as a natural part of the social order. Ehrenfels warned that this process of \"socially victorious\" Chinese men taking as many wives as possible was ultimately a grave threat to the West. As a result of polygamy, genetically superior Asian men were fathering as many children as possible with as many women as possible while genetically superior European men were fathering children by only one woman. As a result of European monogamy and Asian polygamy, the Europeans were losing out to the Asians, and it was only a matter of time before this genetic edge allowed the Asians to destroy European civilization. As a Social Darwinist and a racist, Ehrenfels saw all history as an endless racial struggle with the fittest \"races\" surviving. Ehrenfels took it for granted that the whites and Asians were natural enemies, and always would be. In Ehrenfels's viewpoint, the fact that Chinese were capable of working hard while eating less than Europeans were an important sign that the Asian \"race\" was thanks to polygamy was starting become the stronger \"tougher race\". Ehrenfels wrote with alarm that: \"the average constitutional strength of the Chinese, their resistance to overwork and...noxious and prejudicial influences of all kinds...exceeds that of the civilized peoples of the West to an astonishing degree\". Ehrenfels warned that it this progress was allowed to continue, then the \"beautiful Aryan race\" to whom Ehrenfels compared to \"clear mountain streams\" and \"purest white milk\" would be swept away by the Asian \"torrents of mud\". Ehrenfels stated that racist anti-Asian immigrant laws like the Chinese Exclusion Act in the United States were a good first step, but were insufficient to stop the rise of the \"tough, fecund Mongol race\".>\n\nEhrenfels proposed solution was to do away with monogamy, and create a new social order based on polygamy. To begin with, the state would take complete control of human sexuality. In Ehrenfels's new society, the \"highest goal\" would the \"improvement of the human constitution\" by allowing only the fittest white men to breed. In Ehrenfels's new society, only those white men who proved themselves to be social \"winners\" would be allowed to marry, and the number of wives a man could have would be based upon his degree of success. The more successful the man, the more wives he would have. The state would assign a man his wives after determining his social success and other features such as health, looks, morality and intelligence. Woman by contrast would be allowed only one husband at a time. All women would be forced to live in communal barracks at the expense of the state, where they would help other each raise their children and where their husbands would visit for sex. In this proposed new society, romantic love would be done away with, and relations between men and women would be only sexual. Ehrenfels maintained in his new society that henceforward only the \"specifically sexual element\" in relations between the sexes would matter and other \"motives alien to breeding\" like romantic love would done away with in order to improve the white race. Ehrenfels argued that what men and women both really wanted were those \"days and nights of great and insatiable longing and desire\", so in this new society with no \"trivialities\" like romantic love to interference with the business of sex would be a great improvement for both sexes. \n\nFor men who were \"social losers\", a certain number of the genetically less fit women would be sterilized and turned into the \"courtesan class\" who would be set aside for the sexual use of the \"loser\" men in brothels. Since in Ehrenfels's viewpoint, all that men really wanted from women was sex, not love, in this new society men would not suffer the psychological problems caused by monogamy, thus ending the \"splitting\". Since this new society would be meritocratic, this would solve the entire \"Social Question\" as there would no more inherited wealth and privilege. Furthermore, in this new society, women living in their communal barracks would help each other with raising children, so women would have more time for leisure, and as such Ehrenfels believed that women would come to see this new society as a huge improvement over the previous monogamist society. Their husbands now free of monogamy would treat them better, and so the entire \"Women's Question\" would dissolve as women would lose interest in feminism (which Enrenfels saw as very unnatural). To end the \"Yellow Peril\" once and for all, Ehrenfels suggested that the \"white nations\" band together to conquer all the Asian nations before it was too late, and create a new world racial order with a hereditary, racially determined \"caste system\". In Ehrenfels's vision, whites would serve as the oligarchic \"Aryan\" military and intellectual castes and the Asians and blacks as the slave castes supporting the whites. Ehrenfels in essays published in 1903 and 1904 that in this industrial age, where the majority of humanity was doomed to spent their lives in \"mindless, indeed mind-numbing mechanical labor\", that this sort of work was best done by \"regressive types\" of people instead of \"human types of higher value\". Ehrenfels argued that Asians and blacks were the \"regressive types\" born for lives of mindless labor while whites were the types of \"higher value\" meant for creative thinking, so the division of labor he proposed for his caste system was the one that best suited the intellectual capabilities of the different races that would create the \"proper relationship\" between them. To prevent Miscegenation, interracial sex would be a capital crime with offenders to be publicly hanged. The American historian Richard Weikart wrote Ehrenfels was typical of the \"progress through racial extermination\" school of thought that characterized much of the academia in the German-speaking world in the first part of the 20th century, writing that: \"Through Ehrenfels was not explicit on this point, presumably the elevation of the Europeans he desired would lead to the annihilation of the East Asians, as well as the other races, whom Ehrenfels considered far inferior to the Europeans. \nUntil the Russian-Japanese War of 1904-05, Ehrenfels believed that these sort of radical changes would only happened sometime in the far-future, or as Ehrenfels put it in 1902: \"the Aryan will only respond to the imperative of sexual reform when the waves of the Mongolian tide are lapping around his neck\". After Japan's victory over Russia in 1905, Ehrenfels wrote \"the absolute necessity of a radical sexual reform for the continued existence of the western races of men has... been raised from the level of discussion to the level of a scientifically proven fact\". In a 1907 essay, Ehrenfels wrote that radical sexual reform was \"now a question of 'to be or not to be'...We have no time to lose.\" Ehrenfels suggested as a starting point, the Austrian government begin to allow soldiers upon completing their military service to have polygamous marriages, with those soldiers who proven themselves especially intelligent, brave and physically fit to have the largest number of wives. Subsequently, Ehrenfels made a public appeal to \"manly Aryan men\" who had proved themselves to be both \"social winners\" and \"studs\" to disregard monogamy and marriage, and to start impregnating as many women as possible to give the \"white race\" a genetic edge in the coming war against the \"Yellow Peril\". Before the Russian-Japanese war, it has been the Chinese who had personified the Asian threat to Ehrenfels; after the war, the Asian enemy of the future was the Japanese. In his essays in 1907-1908, Ehrenfels wrote that the Chinese lacked \"all potentialities...determination, initiative, productivity, invention and organizational talent\". While the Chinese were now a listless mass of allegedly mindless Asians, Ehrenfels wrote that Japan was \"a first-rate military power\", and should the Japanese conquer the Chinese, the Japanese would engage in selective breeding to create a race of \"healthy, sly, cunning coolies, virtuosos of reproduction\" in China. Once that happened, Ehrenfels warned that a vast Sino-Japanese army would set to conquer the world consisting of genetically superior soldiers whom the Western powers would be unable to stop.\n\nEhrenfels's ideas were not widely accepted by the public, but the very fact that he was allowed to publish essays on his new society in intellectually prestigious, learned academic journals in Germany and Austria show that his ideas were part of the intellectual mainstream in the first years of the 20th century. Both Alfred Ploetz of \"Archiv für Rassen-und Gesellschaftbiologie\", the journal for the widely respected Society for Race Hygiene, and Max Marcuse of the sexologist journal \"Sexual-Probleme\" endorsed Ehrenfels's plans for a new society. Social Darwinism and racism were part of the intellectual mainstream in the West as was the widespread belief that white men were starting to become \"soft\", and if white men continued to lose their masculine \"hardness\", inevitably this would lead to process of \"racial degeneration\", which would end with the whites becoming enslaved to the \"Yellow Peril\". In the early 20th century saw what the historian Jonathan Katz called the \"invention of heterosexuality\", by which he meant that the ideal of romantic \"true love\" was discarded in popular discourse for the first time by a new discourse that celebrated sexuality and carnal pleasure as the objectives of relationships. Ehrnefels's opposition to romantic love and his unabashed celebration of sexual pleasure as part of the evolutionary duties of racial improvement fitted in well to the new age. Katz noted that those who saw sexual desires as the core of relationships between men and women almost always justified this with reference to human \"need\", \"drive\" or \"instinct\" to pass on their genes.\n\nHowever, Ehrenfels's ideas did meet with disagreement. In December 1908, Sigmund Freud invited Ehrenfels to give a lecture on his proposed new society. The audience generally offered polite dissent from Ehrenfels with one participant calling his new society an \"adolescent sexual fantasy\". Ehrenfels's proposed new society earned him criticism from the Catholic Church which objected to his attacks on Christian monogamy; from feminists who were offended by his idea that women should be kept essentially as chattels and treated as sex objects by men; and from the romantic everywhere who were upset about his plans to abolish romantic love. The German feminist Helene Stöcker protested against Ehrenfels's plans, albeit from the same social Darwinian viewpoint, writing: \"A sexual ethic that does not rest on the development of women as a personality, but instead regards her merely as an object of male lust, is absolutely counter-evolutionary\". \n\nThe American historian Edward Ross Dickinson wrote the \"pieces\" of Ehrenfels's thinking were all mainstream, but the way he brought them together was \"idiosyncratic\". Dickinson suggested that these ideas were rooted in Ehrenfels's own tormented sexuality as he was both fascinated/repulsed by sex. Ehrenfels had been brought up in an extremely conservative, sexually repressive Roman Catholic family, and from his teenage years onwards, always felt deep shame and guilt about his sexual desires. Despite his obsession with sex, Ehrenfels was enraged by pornography (which he wanted to see ruthlessly stamped out) and by the \"indecent\" popular culture of Vienna, which he saw as far too sexualized. Ehrenfels was especially offended by the \"Animierkneipen\" (\"hostess bar\"), a type of popular bar in Austria where the buxom waitresses wore very low-cut dresses and were encouraged to flirt with the male customers in order to get them to buy more drinks; in the \"Animierkneipen\", the waitresses were paid commissions based on their nightly sales of alcohol. Ehrenfels was deeply disgusted by the sight of women flaunting their sexuality to manipulate men, and wanted the \"Animierkneipen\" banned. Besides for that, Ehrenfels complained constantly about \"indecent puns\" used by ordinary people, the \"courtesan style\" in modern fashion and by the \"pornography of the humorous weeklies, in comic songs, farces and operettas\".\n\nDickinson wrote that when Ehrenfels wrote about men suffering from what he called the \"tortuously shackled animal personality\" created by monogamy, he was almost certainly writing about himself. Dickinson suggested that based upon a reading of Ehrenfels's private letters, that his concerns about psychological \"splitting\" within men were based upon his own visits to prostitutes, where he saw johns abusing the prostitutes, and that he may himself had badly treated the prostitutes he had sex with (his letters are somewhat ambiguous on this point). The frequently which Ehrenfels brought up the example of how psychological \"splitting\" was causing men to abuse prostitutes may very well had reflected a guilty conscience on his part about past abuse that he had inflicted on the prostitutes whose services he had used. In a 1908 essay entitled \"The Yellow Peril\", Ehrenfels wrote that 13 years earlier in 1895, he \"arrived, on the basis of personal experience, which it would be superfluous to recount here, at the following two alternatives: 'Either I am an individual of totally corrupt sex instincts, or our monogamous sexual order is an institution with completely corrupting tendencies.'\"\n\nIn the late 19th century, what the British historian John Tosh called the \"flight from domesticity\" novels became very popular, which were a major influence on Ehrenfels. The \"flight from domesticity\" novels typically dealt with a ruggedly tough male who lived life on his own terms, usually alone and always in some remote frontier place, and who almost never had a relationship with a woman or children. The heroes in the \"flight from domesticity\" novels were usually a frontiersman, a hunter, a cowboy, a scout or some other suitably adventuresome, manly occupation. Because the heroes in the \"flight from domesticity\" novels lived in the wild in harmony with nature, they were always portrayed as being more morally purer and authentic then the people who lived in modern civilization. The hero in the \"flight from domesticity\" novel was always the \"strong silent type\", the taciturn tough guy who lived uncompromisingly by his own code of honor and who embodied typical male values like courage and self-reliance far better than did the men who lived in civilization. Typical of the \"flight from domesticity\" novels were the Allan Quatermain novels by the British novelist H. Rider Haggard dealing with the adventures of a British frontiersman in 19th century South Africa; the Western novels by the German novelist Karl May dealing with the adventures of the German immigrant cowboy Old Shatterhand and his Apache best friend Winnetou in the American Old West; the Scott Allen Cameron novels by the Canadian novelist Ralph Connor about a Mountie singly-handedly upholding the law in the Rocky Mountains; and Western adventure novels by the Irish-American novelist Thomas Mayne Reid. The typical hero in Reid's novels which were extremely popular in the United States and Europe was described as being: \"gallant, skillful at arms, far more at ease around men than around women, has lots of time for trappers and soldiers but little for the upper classes and intellectuals, and is much happier hunting and killing than thinking.\" \n\nTosh argued by the end of the 19th century, the burdens of being a husband and a father in a modern, industrialized, urban society were such that many men fantasized about \"chucking it all\" to escape domesticity; to live a life unburdened by the demands of a job, children, a wife or any other social obligation. Hence the popularity of the \"flight from domesticity\" novels, which celebrated the \"masculine primitive\". Ehrenfels's ideas about his new society where men would live apart from women and children, would not participate in raising their children and whose relationships with their wives would be entirely sexual bear a very strong resemblance to the themes in the \"flight from domesticity\" novels. Significantly, Ehrenfels believed that in his new society where men would not be burdened by the demands of family life would allow them to live more fuller and adventuresome lives like the type depicted in the \"flight from domesticity\" books. Ehrenfels's own fantasies about manly Aryan heroes battling the \"Yellow Peril\" who would single-handedly kill hundreds of the \"evil\" Asians while sleeping with every white women in sight, but never having a relationship or raising children appeared to be a sexualized version of the macho fantasies found in the \"flight from domesticity\" novels. It should be noted that not all of the \"flight from domesticity\" writers took the same racist line as did as Ehrenfels, with May in particular being very sympathetic towards the plight of Native-Americans in his Old Shatterhand novels. In many of the \"flight from domesticity\" books, non-white peoples like the Zulus and the Apache were depicted admiringly if rather patronizingly as \"noble savages\" who in their primitive state had preserved certain spiritual qualities that people in the industrialized West had long since lost. What Ehrenfels like many other men at the time seemed to have liked in the \"flight from domesticity\" novels was the celebration of the \"masculine primitive\"; a purer, rawer, tougher form of masculinity that was alleged to exist in the wild than that found in civilization.\n\nDickinson noted that for Ehrenfels, the fear of the \"Yellow Peril\" was always expressed in water imagery; noting how Ehrenfels warned of a \"flood\" of Chinese coming to the West, that the Chinese were a \"torrent of mud\" in which Europe was drowning in, that the Japanese were a \"polluting liquid\", and that Europeans would not respond to this menace until the \"waves\" of Asians were up to their neck. The German historian Klaus Theweleit wrote that the same threatening water imagery was frequently used in the writings of \"Freikorps\" men during the interwar period, but the only threats were the Jews and the Communists (usually the same thing in these writings) rather the Asians which threatened to subsume German men. Theweleit wrote that right-wing German men who had served in the \"Freikorps\" during the interwar period were obsessed with proving their masculinity by establishing their \"hardness\", and that the water imagery reflected their fear of women, the erotic, love, intimacy, and of dependence, all things that threatened to make them less than manly. Theweleit argued in his 1977 book \"Männerphantasien\" (\"Male Fantasies\") that the water imagery was associated with sexuality and a loss of self-control. Reviewing Theweleit's book in 1987, the American historian Paul Robinson wrote that \"...one can't read it without feeling that Mr. Theweleit is onto something: the piling up of examples eventually begins to take its toll on even the most skeptical.\" Dickinson argued that men like Ehrenfels felt the same sexual anxieties about their masculinity as did the writers examined by Theweleit, but only he projected these anxieties onto the \"Yellow Peril\" rather than \"Judeo-Bolshevism\". To be in love can often mean a certain loss of self-control as those in love often invoke the images of being \"swept away\" or \"swallowed up\". Dickinson argued that for Ehrenfels, a self-proclaimed macho \"manly man\" and Aryan alpha male, the prospect of being in love with someone was terrifying as it meant the possibility of losing control, and he projected those fears-which were always expressed in the water imagery-onto the Asians. Ehrenfels often denied quite vehemently that marriage had anything to do with love, writing about his own marriage that marriage was: \"in the final analysis the sexual provision for two persons of the opposite sex through mutual, exclusive and contractual agreement to intercourse. Our morality tries to cover the matter...instead of sexual provision we speak of a unity of souls and the contractual agreement to coitus...is more or less transparently veiled by the term 'community of bed and table'\". Dickson wrote that Ehrenfels's efforts to deny that a man could ever love a woman suggested a huge fear of emotional dependence on his part.\n\nDickinson noted Ehrenfels's vision of humanity was a simplistic one, in which men fought and struggled to pass on their genes by impregnating as many women as possible. The existence of homosexuality and bi-sexuality posed a major problem for Ehrenfels's view of humanity. In 1897, the Scientific-Humanitarian Committee, the first gay rights group in not only Germany, but also the world was founded. One of the founders of the Scientific-Humanitarian Committee, Magnus Hirschfeld, the German sexologist and gay rights advocate, was a well known figure in the German-speaking world in the early 20th century and his theories were much debated. In 1899, Hirschfeld had argued in an essay: \"that in all mental and physical characteristics there are only gradual, quantitative differences between men and women, that between them, in every respect, there are all sorts of mixed forms in extraordinary diversity\". Hirschfeld's theories about varieties of human sexuality ranging from heterosexual to bisexual to homosexual and all of which were equally valid, posed a major for Ehrenfels. Ehrenfels simply dismissed everything Hirschfeld had to say out of hand, saying that homosexuality was a case of moral degeneration caused by a few \"biologically degenerate homosexuals\" who seduced otherwise \"healthy boys\" into their lifestyle. Ehrenfels could not accept Hirschfeld's theory that some people were born gay as it contradicted his view of male sexuality as an aggressive drive to pass on one's genes too much. \n\nDickinson noted that Ehrenfels's intense bouts of depression together with periods of manic activity suggested a degree of emotional instability on his part, adding: \"A number of prominent men of the period more or less conform to the same pattern. Gail Bederman has described related personality structures in G. Stanley Hall and Theodore Roosevelt. Both exhibited manic restlessness, quasi-messianic self-regard, insecure masculine sexuality, a fear of racial degeneration and bizarre theories regarding the regenerating evolutionary power of masculine sexuality and the genocidal instincts of all males-who, each believed, naturally sought to exterminate men of other races as part of the struggle for the survival of the fittest. Emperor Wilhelm II of Germany, while probably closer to outright mental illness, exhibited similar traits-including manic activity, intellectual eclecticism, megalomania, occasional nervous breakdowns, genocidal cogitations, and concern with the 'Yellow Peril'.\" Ehrenfels projected feminine qualities onto the Chinese, always using feminine verbs when writing about the Chinese, and always compared China to a woman after 1904. The German language has three sorts of verbs: masculine, feminine and neutral. Ehrenfels's fear of the Chinese reflected his fear of the feminine which might overwhelm the masculine through the powers of love and sex. By contrast, Ehrenfels always used masculine verbs when writing about the Japanese, and he often compared the Japanese to a rival male that was seeking to dominate the \"woman China\" in competition to the European powers that were also compared to males. Dickison argued that Ehrenfels's constant use of this sort of sexualized language of power, aggression and domination when writing about China reflected his own fear of sex, love, sexual dependence, his sexual adequacy as a man, and most of all, emotional dependence. Dickinson further noted the great irony of Ehrenfels's life, namely that his own biography disapproved his theories about men as sex-crazed animals incapable of love for either the women in their lives or their children. By all accounts, Ehrenfels did indeed deeply love his wife and his two children.\n\nDickinson noted that many of Ehrenfels's ideas seem to anticipate National Socialism, but this was not the case. Within the first decade of the 20th century some of the more radical members of the eugenics-Social Darwinist movement in Germany were already advocating killing the physically and/or mentally disabled as the best way of improving the Aryan race. Ehrenfels was deeply horrified by these ideas, and made it clear that in his proposed new society, the mentally and physically disabled would be prevented from marrying, and this was enough. Had Ehrenfels lived long enough, he would have been appalled by the Action T4 program launched by the German government in January 1939 to exterminate all physically and mentally disabled people in the \"Reich\" (which by that included Austria). Likewise, Ehrenfels was opposed to antisemitism, writing there was no \"Jewish bogey\" threatening the \"Aryan race\"; called antisemitism \"silly\" and argued that the Jews would be very useful allies for the Aryans in the coming war with the Asians. In this, Ehrenfels parted company with his friend Houston Stewart Chamberlain who believed in the coming great \"race war\" that the Asians together with the blacks would fight under the leadership of the Jews against the Aryans.\n\nEhrenfels's wife Emma was befriended by Houston Stewart Chamberlain. His daughter was the author Imma von Bodmershof and his son Rolf, a professor of anthropology who converted to Islam in 1927 and assumed the name Omar. Omar Rolf's wife, Elfriede von Bodmershof, was a literary person. As well, she registered the pseudonym \"Kurban Said\" as belonging to her for the novels \"Ali and Nino\" as well as \"Girl from the Golden Horn.\" However, Lucy Tal whose company E.P. Tal had published \"Ali and Nino\" wrote her lawyer saying, \"I had never heard of the Baroness... Also my late husband's right hand and secretary knew nothing of the Baroness. Only much later, when for some reason, we looked at Buchhaendler Boersenblatt, we discovered the Baroness as Kurban Said. Of course, under the Nazis pseudonyms were born, people unrightful had themselves as authors ...\"\n\nIn the 1890s, Ehrenfels-who was a passionate fan of Richard Wagner-befriended a fellow Wagnerite, the British born German \"völkisch\" thinker Houston Stewart Chamberlain, \"the Evangelist of Race\". Ehrenfels, who despite being a Wagnerite and a friend of Chamberlain's did not generally associate himself with the more extreme racist and anti-Semitic wing of the Wagner movement that Chamberlain came to be the leader of. Ehrenfels never accepted Chamberlain's anti-Semitism, but he was influenced by Chamberlain's theory that the Aryan race was the greatest and best race of them all. Chamberlain was later to have an affair with Ehrenfels's wife, Baroness Emma von Ehrenfels.\n\nThe Czech Zionist, philosopher and friend of Kafka Felix Weltsch wrote many essays and memos about Ehrenfels, who himself was of partly Jewish descent. Weltsch was one of Ehrenfels's most important pupils.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13459016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13459016", "title": "Cognitive description", "text": "Cognitive description\n\nCognitive description is a term used in psychology to describe the cognitive workings of the human mind.\n\nA cognitive description specifies what information is utilized during a cognitive action, how this information is processed and transformed, what data structures are used, and what behaviour is generated.\n\n"}
{"id": "7963745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7963745", "title": "Compliance problem", "text": "Compliance problem\n\nThe Compliance problem is a problem in contractarian ethics. It states that it is in the individuals' best interest to agree to contracts, but not to comply to them.\n\nThomas Hobbes first outlined the compliance problem in The Leviathan with the character called 'the foole'. His suggested solution was political coercion and oppression.\n\nDavid Gauthier is the current leading philosopher on the compliance problem. His suggested solution includes the theory of minimax relative concession. \n"}
{"id": "1039033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1039033", "title": "Cope's rule", "text": "Cope's rule\n\nCope's rule, named after American paleontologist Edward Drinker Cope, postulates that population lineages tend to increase in body size over evolutionary time. It was never actually stated by Cope, although he favoured the occurrence of linear evolutionary trends. It is sometimes also known as the Cope-Depéret rule, because Charles Depéret explicitly advocated the idea. Theodor Eimer had also done so earlier. The term \"Cope's rule\" was apparently coined by Bernhard Rensch, based on the fact that Depéret had \"lionized Cope\" in his book. While the rule has been demonstrated in many instances, it does not hold true at all taxonomic levels, or in all clades. Larger body size is associated with increased fitness for a number of reasons, although there are also some disadvantages both on an individual and on a clade level: clades comprising larger individuals are more prone to extinction, which may act to limit the maximum size of organisms.\n\nDirectional selection appears to act on organisms' size, whereas it exhibits a far smaller effect on other morphological traits, though it is possible that this perception may be a result of sample bias. This selectional pressure can be explained by a number of advantages, both in terms of mating success and survival rate.\n\nFor example, larger organisms find it easier to avoid or fight off predators and capture prey, to reproduce, to kill competitors, to survive temporary lean times, and to resist rapid climatic changes. They may also potentially benefit from better thermal efficiency, increased intelligence, and a longer lifespan.\n\nOffsetting these advantages, larger organisms require more food and water, and shift from r to K-selection. Their longer generation time means a longer period of reliance on the mother, and on a macroevolutionary scale restricts the clade's ability to evolve rapidly in response to changing environments.\n\nLeft unfettered, the trend of ever-larger size would produce organisms of gargantuan proportions. Therefore, some factors must limit this process.\nAt one level, it is possible that the clade's increased vulnerability to extinction, as its members become larger, means that no taxon survives long enough for individuals to reach huge sizes. There are probably also physically imposed limits to the size of some organisms; for instance, insects must be small enough for oxygen to diffuse to all parts of their bodies, flying birds must be light enough to fly, and the length of giraffes' necks may be limited by the amount of pressure it is possible for their hearts to generate. Finally, there may be a competitive element, in that changes in size are necessarily accompanied by changes in ecological niche. For example, terrestrial carnivores over 21 kg almost always prey on organisms larger, not smaller, than themselves. If such a niche is already occupied, competitive pressure may oppose the directional selection. The three Canidae clades show a trend towards larger size before becoming extinct.\n\nCope recognised that clades of Cenozoic mammals appeared to originate as small individuals, and that body mass increased through a clade's history. Discussing the case of canid evolution in North America, Blaire Van Valkenburgh of UCLA and coworkers state:\nIn some cases, the increase in body size may represent a passive, rather than an active, trend. In other words, the maximum size increases, but the minimum size does not; this is usually a result of size varying pseudo-randomly rather than directed evolution. This does not fall into Cope's rule \"sensu stricto\", but is considered by many workers to be an example of \"Cope's rule \"sensu lato\"\". In other cases, an increase in size may in fact represent a transition to an optimal body size, and not imply that populations always develop to a larger size.\n\nHowever, many palaeobiologists are skeptical of the validity of Cope's rule, which may merely represent a statistical artefact. Purported examples of Cope's rule often assume that the stratigraphic age of fossils is proportional to their \"clade rank\", a measure of how derived they are from an ancestral state; this relationship is in fact quite weak. Counterexamples to Cope's rule are common throughout geological time; although size increase does occur more often than not, it is by no means universal. For example, among genera of Cretaceous molluscs, an increase in size is no more common than stasis or a decrease. In many cases, Cope's rule only operates at certain taxonomic levels (for example, an order may obey Cope's rule, while its constituent families do not), or more generally, it may apply to only some clades of a taxon.\n\nDespite many counter-examples, Cope's rule is supported in many instances. For example, all marine invertebrate phyla except the molluscs show a size increase between the Cambrian and Permian. Collectively, dinosaurs exhibit an increase in body length over their evolution. Cope's rule also appears to hold in clades where a constraint on size is expected. For instance, one may expect the size of birds to be constrained, as larger masses mean more energy must be expended in flight. Birds have been suggested to follow Cope's law, although a subsequent reanalysis of the same data suggested otherwise.\n\nAn extensive study published in 2015 supports the presence of a trend toward larger body size in marine animals during the Phanerozoic. However, this trend was present mainly in the Paleozoic and Cenozoic; the Mesozoic was a period of relative stasis. The trend is not attributable simply to neutral drift in body size from small ancestors, and was mainly driven by a greater rate of diversification in classes of larger mean size. A smaller component of the overall trend is due to trends of increasing size within individual families.\n"}
{"id": "3519238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3519238", "title": "David Conway (academic)", "text": "David Conway (academic)\n\nDavid Conway (born 1947) is a British academic philosopher who has written several books on philosophy and politics. He has been described as \"a classical liberal who thinks nations are essential\".\n\nConway grew up in London, read Philosophy as an undergraduate at Cambridge University in the 1960s and went on to obtain his doctorate in Philosophy from University College London. He taught at Middlesex University for over thirty years, where he was Professor of Philosophy. He subsequently worked at Roehampton University as a senior research fellow in Theology and Religious Studies. Conway then worked for CIVITAS, an independent British think tank, as a senior research fellow.\n\n"}
{"id": "277226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277226", "title": "Demonym", "text": "Demonym\n\nA demonym (; from Greek δῆμος, \"dẽmos\", \"people, tribe\" and όνομα, \"ónoma\", \"name\") is a word that identifies residents or natives of a particular place, which is derived from the name of that particular place.\n\nExamples of demonyms include \"Cochabambino\", for a person from the city of Cochabamba; \"American\" for a person from the country called the United States of America; and \"Swahili\", for a person of the Swahili coast.\n\nDemonyms do not always clearly distinguish place of origin or ethnicity from place of residence or citizenship, and many demonyms overlap with the ethnonym for the ethnically dominant group of a region. Thus a \"Thai\" may be any resident or citizen of Thailand of any ethnic group, or more narrowly a member of the Thai people.\n\nConversely, some groups of people may be associated with multiple demonyms. For example, a native of the United Kingdom may be called a \"British person\", a \"Briton\" or, informally, a \"Brit\". In some languages, a demonym may be borrowed from another language as a nickname or descriptive adjective for a group of people: for example, \"Québécois(e)\" is commonly used in English for a native of Quebec (though \"Quebecker\" is also available).\n\nIn English, demonyms are capitalized and are often the same as the adjectival form of the place, e.g. \"Egyptian\", \"Japanese\", or \"Greek\". Significant exceptions exist; for instance, the adjectival form of Spain is \"Spanish\", but the demonym is \"Spaniard\".\n\nEnglish commonly uses national demonyms such as \"Ethiopian\" or \"Guatemalan\", while the usage of local demonyms such as \"Chicagoan\", \"Wisconsinite\", or \"Parisian\", is rare. Many local demonyms are rarely used and many places, especially smaller towns and cities, lack a commonly used and accepted demonym altogether.\n\nThe word \"gentilic\" comes from the Latin \"gentilis\" (\"of a clan, or gens\") and the English suffix \"-ic\". The word \"demonym\" was derived from the Greek word meaning \"populace\" (, \"demos\") with the suffix for \"name\" (-onym).\n\n\"National Geographic\" attributes the term \"demonym\" to Merriam-Webster editor Paul Dickson in a recent work from 1990. The word did not appear for nouns, adjectives, and verbs derived from geographical names in the Merriam-Webster Collegiate Dictionary nor in prominent style manuals such as the \"Chicago Manual of Style\". It was subsequently popularized in this sense in 1997 by Dickson in his book \"Labels for Locals\". However, in \"What Do You Call a Person From...? A Dictionary of Resident Names\" (the first edition of \"Labels for Locals\") Dickson attributed the term to George H. Scheetz, in his \"Names' Names: A Descriptive and Prescriptive Onymicon\" (1988), which is apparently where the term first appears. The term may have been fashioned after \"demonymic\", which the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" defines as the name of an Athenian citizen according to the deme to which the citizen belongs, with its first use traced to 1893.\n\nSeveral linguistic elements are used to create demonyms in the English language. The most common is to add a suffix to the end of the location name, slightly modified in some instances. These may resemble Late Latin, Semitic, Celtic, or Germanic suffixes, such as:\n\n\n\n\n\nas adaptations from the standard Spanish suffix \"-e(ñ/n)o\" (sometimes using a final \"-a\" instead of \"-o\" for a female, following the Spanish suffix standard \"-e(ñ/n)a\")\n\n\n\n\nOften used for European locations and Canadian locations\n\n\"-ish\" is usually proper only as an adjective. See note below list.\n\nOften used for Middle Eastern locations and European locations.\n\n\n\n\"-ese\" is usually considered proper only as an adjective, or to refer to the entirety. Thus, \"a Chinese person\" is used rather than \"a Chinese\". Often used for East Asian and Francophone locations, from the similar-sounding French suffix \"-ais(e)\", which is originally from the Latin adjectival ending \"-ensis\", designating origin from a place: thus Hispaniensis (Spanish), Danensis (Danish), etc.\n\nMostly for Middle Eastern and South Asian locales and in Latinate names for the various people that ancient Romans encountered (e.g. Allemanni, Helvetii)\n\n\n\nUsed especially for Greek locations.\n\n\nOften used for French locations.\n\n\nOften used for British and Irish locations.\n\n\n\nWhile derived from French, these are also official demonyms in English.\n\n\nIt is much rarer to find Demonyms created with a prefix. Mostly they are from Africa and the Pacific, and are not generally known or used outside the country concerned. In much of East Africa, a person of a particular ethnic group will be denoted by a prefix. For example, a person of the Luba people would be a Muluba, the plural form Baluba, and the language, Kiluba or Tshiluba. Similar patterns with minor variations in the prefixes exist throughout on a tribal level. And Fijians who are indigenous Fijians are known as Kaiviti (Viti being the Fijian name for Fiji). On a country level:\n\nIn the Pacific, at least two countries use prefixation:\n\n\nDemonyms may also not conform to the underlying naming of a particular place, but instead arise out of historical or cultural particularities that become associated with its denizens. These demonyms are usually more informal and colloquial. In the United States such informal demonyms frequently become associated with mascots of the intercollegiate sports teams of the state university system. In other countries the origins are often disputed.\n\n\n\n\nLiterature and science fiction have created a wealth of gentilics that are not directly associated with a cultural group. These will typically be formed using the standard models above. Examples include Martian for hypothetical people of Mars (credited to scientist Percival Lowell) or \"Gondorian\" for the people of Tolkien's fictional land of Gondor or \"Atlantean\" for Plato's island \"Atlantis\".\n\nOther science fiction examples include Jovian for those of Jupiter or its moons, and Venusian for those of Venus. Fictional aliens refer to the inhabitants of Earth as Earthling (from the diminutive \"-ling\", ultimately from Old English \"-ing\" meaning \"descendant\"), as well as \"Terran\", \"Terrene\", \"Tellurian\", \"Earther\", \"Earthican\", \"Terrestrial\", and \"Solarian\" (from Sol, the sun).\n\nFantasy literature which involves other worlds or other lands also has a rich supply of gentilics. Examples include \"Lilliputians\" and \"Brobdingnagians\", from the islands of Lilliput and Brobdingnag in the satire \"Gulliver's Travels\".\n\nIn a few cases, where a linguistic background has been created, non-standard gentilics are formed (or the eponyms back-formed). Examples include Tolkien's \"Rohirrim\" (from Rohan) and the \"Star Trek\" world's \"Klingon\" people (with various version of homeworld name).\n\n-onym, especially ethnonym and Exonym and endonym\n\n"}
{"id": "20118070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20118070", "title": "Dominique Lecourt", "text": "Dominique Lecourt\n\nDominique Lecourt (; born 5 February 1944) is a French philosopher. He is known in the anglophone world primarily for his work developing a materialist interpretation of the philosophy of science of Gaston Bachelard.\n\nLecourt was born in Paris. A former student at the École normale supérieure (1965), an agrégé in philosophy (1969), and a Docteur d’État ès lettres (1980), he is currently professor at the Université Paris Diderot-Paris 7 and director of the Centre Georges Canguilhem (Paris 7).\n\nCo-founder in 1984 of the International College of Philosophy, Rector of the National Center for Distance Education (1985–88), member of the Human Rights Commission of UNESCO (1977–90), member of the CNRS Ethics Commission for Life Sciences (1993–98), Chairman of the Ethics Commission of the French Research Development Institute (2002-2009).\n\nDirector General of the Institut Diderot and head of the surveillance council of Presses Universitaires de France (PUF), Dominique Lecourt has been decorated with the medals of Officier de la Légion d’Honneur, Chevalier de l’Ordre National du Mérite and has been awarded with the Gegner Prize (2000) and Louis Marin Price (2010) by the Academy of Political and Moral Sciences.\n\nIn addition to numerous publications in philosophy, philosophy of sciences, cloning, ethics, bioethics, and politics, Dominique Lecourt has published more than thirty books.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55059099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55059099", "title": "Duncan Pritchard", "text": "Duncan Pritchard\n\nDuncan Pritchard is the Chancellor’s Professor of philosophy and the Director of Graduate Studies at the University of California, Irvine and a professor of philosophy at Edinburgh University. His field of research is epistemology. He has studied the problem of scepticism, the epistemic externalism/internalism distinction; the rationality of religious belief; testimony; the relationship between epistemic and content externalism; virtue epistemology; epistemic value; modal epistemology; the history of scepticism; and epistemological contextualism.\n\nHe received his PhD in philosophy from the University of St Andrews.\n\nThe books of Pritchard:\n\nHe received the Philip Leverhulme Prize for his research in philosophy in 2007. He received a Chair in Epistemology in 2007. He was also elected to a Fellowship of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 2011 for his works in philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1191449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1191449", "title": "Force dynamics", "text": "Force dynamics\n\nForce dynamics is a semantic category that describes the way in which entities interact with reference to force. Force Dynamics gained a good deal of attention in cognitive linguistics due to its claims of psychological plausibility and the elegance with which it generalizes ideas not usually considered in the same context.\nThe semantic category of force dynamics pervades language on several levels. Not only does it apply to expressions in the physical domain like \"leaning on\" or \"dragging\", but it also plays an important role in expressions involving psychological forces (e.g. \"wanting\" or \"being urged\"). \nFurthermore, the concept of force dynamics can be extended to discourse. For example, the situation in which speakers A and B argue, after which speaker A gives in to speaker B, exhibits a force dynamic pattern.\n\nIntroduced by cognitive linguist Leonard Talmy in 1981, force dynamics started out as a generalization of the traditional notion of the causative, dividing \"causation\" into finer primitives and considering the notions of \"letting\", \"hindering\", and \"helping\". Talmy further developed the field in his 1985, 1988 and 2000 works. \n\nTalmy places force dynamics within the broader context of cognitive semantics. In his view, a general idea underlying this discipline is the existence of a fundamental distinction in language between closed-class (grammatical) and open-class (lexical) categories. This distinction is motivated by the fact that language uses certain categories of notions to structure and organize meaning, while other categories are excluded from this function. For example, Talmy remarks that many languages mark the number of nouns in a systematic way, but that nouns are not marked in the same way for \"color\". Force Dynamics is considered to be one of the closed-class notional categories, together with such generally recognized categories as number, aspect, mood, and evidentiality.\n\nAspects of force dynamics have been incorporated into the theoretical frameworks of Mark Johnson (1987), Steven Pinker (1997) and Ray Jackendoff (1990) (see Deane 1996 for a critical review of Jackendoff’s version of Force Dynamics). Force dynamics plays an important role in several recent accounts of modal verbs in various languages (including Brandt 1992, Achard 1996, Boye 2001, and Vandenberghe 2002). Other applications of force dynamics include use in discourse analysis (Talmy 1988, 2000), lexical semantics (Deane 1992, Da Silva 2003) and morphosyntactical analysis (Chun & Zubin 1990, Langacker 1999:352-4).\n\nExpressions can exhibit a force dynamic pattern or can be force-dynamically neutral. A sentence like \"The door is closed\" is force-dynamically neutral, because there are no forces opposing each other. The sentence \"The door cannot open\", on the other hand, exhibits a force dynamic pattern: apparently the door has some tendency toward opening, but there is some other force preventing it from being opened (e.g., it may be jammed).\n\nA basic feature of a force-dynamic expression is the presence of two force-exerting elements. Languages make a distinction between these two forces based on their roles. The force entity that is in focus is called the \"agonist\" and the force entity opposing it is the \"Antagonist\" (see \"a, figure 1\"). In the example, the \"door\" is the agonist and the force preventing the door from being opened is the Antagonist.\n\nForce entities have an \"intrinsic force tendency\", either toward action or toward rest. For the agonist, this tendency is marked with an arrowhead (action) or with a large dot (rest) (see \"b, figure 1\"). Since the antagonist by definition has an opposing tendency, it need not be marked. In the example, the door has a tendency toward action.\n\nA third relevant factor is the balance between the two forces. The forces are out of balance by definition; if the two forces are equally strong, the situation is not interesting from a force-dynamic point of view. One force is therefore stronger or weaker than the other. A stronger force is marked with a \"plus\" sign, a weaker force with a \"minus\" sign (\"c, figure 1\"). In the example, the Antagonist is stronger, since it actually holds back the door.\n\nThe outcome of the Force-Dynamic scenario depends on both the intrinsic tendency and the balance between the forces. The result is represented by a line beneath Agonist and Antagonist. The line has an arrowhead if the outcome is action and a large dot if the outcome is rest (\"d, figure 1\"). In the example, the door stays closed; the Antagonist succeeds in preventing it from being opened. The sentence 'The door cannot open' can be Force-Dynamically represented by the diagram at the top of this page.\n\nUsing these basic concepts, several generalizations can be made. The force dynamic situations in which the Agonist is stronger are expressed in sentences like ‘X happened \"despite\" Y’, while situations in which the Antagonist is stronger are expressed in the form of ‘X happened \"because of\" Y’. In the latter, a form of causation that Talmy termed \"extended causation\" is captured.\n\nMore possibilities arise when another variable is introduced: \"change over time\". This variable is exemplified by such expressions as \"A gust of wind made the pages of my book turn\". In force dynamic terms, the situation can be described as the entering of an antagonist (the wind) that is stronger in force than the agonist (the pages) and changes the force tendency of the pages from a state of rest to a state of action (turning). In force dynamic diagrams, this motion (‘change over time’) of the Antagonist is represented by an arrow.\n\nThe diagrams in \"Figure 2\" to the right combine a shifting antagonist with agonists of varying force tendencies. The following sentences are examples for these patterns:\n\nIn this series of scenarios, various kinds of causation are described. Furthermore, a basic relationship between the concepts of ‘causing something to happen’ and ‘letting something happen’ emerges, definable in terms of the balance between the force entities and the resultants of the interaction.\n\nIt should be noted that force entities do not have to be physical entities. Force dynamics is directly applicable to terms involving psychological forces like \"to persuade\" and \"to urge\". The force dynamic aspect of the sentence \"Herbie did not succeed in persuading Diana to sing another song\" can be graphically represented as easily as the earlier example sentence \"The door cannot open\" (and, incidentally, by the same diagram).\n\nIn addition, force entities do not have to be physically separate. A case in point is \"reflexive\" force dynamic constructions of the type \"Chet was dragging himself instead of walking\". It is perfectly possible to represent this in a Force Dynamic diagram (representing Chet’s will as the Agonist keeping the body — the Antagonist — in motion). Thus, even though Chet is one person, his will and his body are conceptualized separately.\n\nThe key elements of force dynamics are very basic to human cognition. Deane (1996:56) commented that “[f]rom a cognitive perspective, Talmy’s theory is a striking example of a psychologically plausible theory of causation. Its key elements are such concepts as the (amount of) force exerted by an entity, the balance between two such forces, and the force vector which results from their interaction. Such concepts have an obvious base in ordinary motor activities: the brain must be able to calculate the force vector produced by muscular exertion, and calculate the probable outcome when that force is exerted against an object in the outside world.”\n\nIn cognitive linguistic terms, force dynamic expressions reflect a \"conceptual archetype\" because of their conceptual basality (Langacker 1999:24). In this view, expressions involving psychological forces reflect an extension of the category of force dynamics from the physical domain to the psychological domain.\n\nFrom the perspective of lexical semantics, some people have argued that force dynamics fails to be explanatory. For example, Goddard (1998:262–266) raised the objection that \"a visual representation cannot — in and of itself — convey a meaning. (…) From a semiotic point of view, a diagram never stands alone; it always depends on a system of verbal captions, whether these are explicit or implied.\" He goes on to attack the verbal definition of causation Talmy provides, claiming that it is circular and obscure. Furthermore, Goddard objects to the use of the \"semantically obscure concept of force\". However, Goddard's objections lose some of their strength in light of the fact that Force Dynamics does not present itself as a complete semantic description of the constructions involving Force Dynamic concepts. \n\nAnother objection regarding force dynamics is the question, raised by Goddard (1998:81), of how different representational devices are supposed to interact with one another. As the field of cognitive linguistics is still in a state of theoretical flux, no systematic account addresses this issue yet. However, it is an objection many cognitive linguists are aware of. Some cognitive linguists have replied to such objections by pointing out that the goal of Cognitive Linguistics is not to construct a formal system in which theorems are proved, but rather to better understand the cognitive basis of language (cf. Newman 1996:xii). \n\nJackendoff (1990, 1996:120–3), in the process of incorporating aspects of force dynamics into his theory of conceptual semantics, has proposed a reconfiguration of some of its basic notions. In Jackendoff’s view, this reconfiguration \"conforms better to the syntax of force-dynamic verbs\" (1996:121).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2900660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2900660", "title": "Francisco Miró Quesada Cantuarias", "text": "Francisco Miró Quesada Cantuarias\n\nFrancisco Miró Quesada Cantuarias (21 December 1918 in Lima) is a contemporary Peruvian philosopher who disputes the summary of human nature on the basis that any collective assumption of human nature would be unfulfilling and leave the public with a negative result. He made his debut in 1941 with \"Sentido del movimiento fenomenológico\" (\"Meaning of the phenomenological movement\"). The term \"paraconsistent logic\" was coined by Miró Quesada at the Third Latin America Conference on Mathematical Logic in 1976.\n\nAfter Miró Quesada graduated from the University of San Marcos with a doctorate in Philosophy, he began teaching there as a professor of Contemporary Philosophy. Later, in 1952, he was granted a scholarship by UNESCO to go to France, Italy, and England to study the formation of the secondary teaching staff. In 1953, he published the Sunday Supplement (el Suplemento Dominical).\n"}
{"id": "1662015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1662015", "title": "Gene-centered view of evolution", "text": "Gene-centered view of evolution\n\nThe gene-centered view of evolution, gene's eye view, gene selection theory, or selfish gene theory holds that adaptive evolution occurs through the differential survival of competing genes, increasing the allele frequency of those alleles whose phenotypic trait effects successfully promote their own propagation, with gene defined as \"not just one single physical bit of DNA [but] all replicas of a particular bit of DNA distributed throughout the world\". The proponents of this viewpoint argue that, since heritable information is passed from generation to generation almost exclusively by DNA, natural selection and evolution are best considered from the perspective of genes.\n\nProponents of the gene-centered viewpoint argue that it permits understanding of diverse phenomena such as altruism and intragenomic conflict that are otherwise difficult to explain.\n\nThe gene-centered view of evolution is a synthesis of the theory of evolution by natural selection, the particulate inheritance theory, and the non-transmission of acquired characters. It states that those alleles whose phenotypic effects successfully promote their own propagation will be favorably selected relative to their competitor alleles within the population. This process produces adaptations for the benefit of alleles that promote the reproductive success of the organism, or of other organisms containing the same allele (kin altruism and green-beard effects), or even its own propagation relative to the other genes within the same organism (selfish genes and intragenomic conflict).\n\nThe gene-centered perspective can be traced to the philosopher Henri Bergson who wrote, in his book, ‘Creative Evolution’ (1907):\n\n‘Life is like a current passing from germ to germ through the medium of a developed organism. It is as if the organism itself were only an excrescence, a bud caused to sprout by the former endeavouring to continue itself in a new germ’.\n\nThe gene-centered view of evolution is a model for the evolution of social characteristics such as selfishness and altruism.\n\nThe formulation of the central dogma of molecular biology was summarized by Maynard Smith:\n\nThe rejection of the inheritance of acquired characters, combined with Ronald Fisher the statistician, giving the subject a mathematical footing, and showing how Mendelian genetics was compatible with natural selection in his 1930 book \"The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection\". J. B. S. Haldane, and Sewall Wright, paved the way to the formulation of the selfish-gene theory. For cases where environment can influence heredity, see epigenetics.\n\nThe view of the gene as the unit of selection was developed mainly in the works of Richard Dawkins, W. D. Hamilton, Colin Pittendrigh and George C. Williams. It was mainly popularized and expanded by Dawkins in his book \"The Selfish Gene\" (1976).\n\nAccording to Williams' 1966 book \"Adaptation and Natural Selection\",\n\nWilliams argued that \"[t]he natural selection of phenotypes cannot in itself produce cumulative change, because phenotypes are extremely temporary manifestations.\" Each phenotype is the unique product of the interaction between genome and environment. It does not matter how fit and fertile a phenotype is, it will eventually be destroyed and will never be duplicated.\n\nSince 1954, it has been known that DNA is the main physical substrate to genetic information, and it is capable of high-fidelity replication through many generations. So, a particular gene coded in a nucleobase sequence of a lineage of replicated DNA molecules can have a high permanence and a low rate of endogenous change.\n\nIn normal sexual reproduction, an entire genome is the unique combination of father's and mother's chromosomes produced at the moment of fertilization. It is generally destroyed with its organism, because \"meiosis and recombination destroy genotypes as surely as death.\" Only half of it is transmitted to each descendant due to independent segregation.\n\nAnd the high prevalence of horizontal gene transfer in bacteria and archaea means that genomic combinations of these asexually reproducing groups are also transient in evolutionary time: \"The traditional view, that prokaryotic evolution can be understood primarily in terms of clonal divergence and periodic selection, must be augmented to embrace gene exchange as a creative force.\"\n\nThe gene as an informational entity persists for an evolutionarily significant span of time through a lineage of many physical copies.\n\nIn his book \"River out of Eden\", Dawkins coins the phrase \"God's utility function\" to explain his view on genes as units of selection. He uses this phrase as a synonym of the \"meaning of life\" or the \"purpose of life\". By rephrasing the word \"purpose\" in terms of what economists call a utility function, meaning \"that which is maximized\", Dawkins attempts to reverse-engineer the purpose in the mind of the Divine Engineer of Nature, or the \"utility function of god\". Finally, Dawkins argues that it is a mistake to assume that an ecosystem or a species as a whole exists for a purpose. He writes that it is incorrect to suppose that individual organisms lead a meaningful life either; in nature, only genes have a utility function – to perpetuate their own existence with indifference to great sufferings inflicted upon the organisms they build, exploit and discard.\n\nGenes are usually packed together inside a genome, which is itself contained inside an organism. Genes group together into genomes because \"genetic replication makes use of energy and substrates that are supplied by the metabolic economy in much greater quantities than would be possible without a genetic division of labour.\" They build vehicles to promote their mutual interests of jumping into the next generation of vehicles. As Dawkins puts it, organisms are the \"survival machines\" of genes.\n\nThe phenotypic effect of a particular gene is contingent on its environment, including the fellow genes constituting with it the total genome. A gene never has a fixed effect, so how is it possible to speak of a gene for long legs? It is because of the phenotypic \"differences\" between alleles. One may say that one allele, all other things being equal or varying within certain limits, causes greater legs than its alternative. This difference enables the scrutiny of natural selection.\n\n\"A gene can have multiple phenotypic effects, each of which may be of positive, negative or neutral value. It is the net selective value of a gene's phenotypic effect that determines the fate of the gene.\" For instance, a gene can cause its bearer to have greater reproductive success at a young age, but also cause a greater likelihood of death at a later age. If the benefit outweighs the harm, averaged out over the individuals and environments in which the gene happens to occur, then phenotypes containing the gene will generally be positively selected and thus the abundance of that gene in the population will increase.\n\nEven so, it becomes necessary to model the genes in combination with their vehicle as well as in combination with the vehicle's environment.\n\nThe selfish-gene theory of natural selection can be restated as follows:\n\nThe result is that \"the prevalent genes in a sexual population must be those that, as a mean condition, through a large number of genotypes in a large number of situations, have had the most favourable phenotypic effects for their own replication.\" In other words, we expect selfish genes (\"selfish\" meaning that it promotes its own survival without necessarily promoting the survival of the organism, group or even species). This theory implies that adaptations are the phenotypic effects of genes to maximize their representation in future generations. An adaptation is maintained by selection if it promotes genetic survival directly, or else some subordinate goal that ultimately contributes to successful reproduction.\n\nThe gene is a unit of hereditary information that exists in many physical copies in the world, and which particular physical copy will be replicated and originate new copies does not matter from the gene's point of view. A selfish gene could be favored by selection by producing altruism among organisms containing it. The idea is summarized as follows:\n\nA gene in a somatic cell of an individual may forego replication to promote the transmission of its copies in the germ line cells. It ensures the high value of \"p = 1\" due to their constant contact and their common origin from the zygote.\n\nThe kin selection theory predicts that a gene may promote the recognition of kinship by historical continuity: a mammalian mother learns to identify her own offspring in the act of giving birth; a male preferentially directs resources to the offspring of mothers with whom he has copulated; the other chicks in a nest are siblings; and so on. The expected altruism between kin is calibrated by the value of \"p\", also known as the coefficient of relatedness. For instance, an individual has a \"p = 1/2\" in relation to his brother, and \"p = 1/8\" to his cousin, so we would expect, \"ceteris paribus\", greater altruism among brothers than among cousins. In this vein, geneticist J. B. S. Haldane famously joked, \"Would I lay down my life to save my brother? No, but I would to save two brothers or eight cousins.\" However, examining the human propensity for altruism, kin selection theory seems incapable of explaining cross-familiar, cross-racial and even cross-species acts of kindness. \n\nGreen-beard effects gained their name from a thought-experiment of Richard Dawkins, who considered the possibility of a gene that caused its possessors to develop a green beard and to be nice to other green-bearded individuals. Since then, \"green-beard effect\" has come to refer to forms of genetic self-recognition in which a gene in one individual might direct benefits to other individuals that possess the gene. Such genes would be \"especially selfish\", benefiting themselves regardless of the fates of their vehicles. After Dawkins predicted them, green-beard genes have been discovered in nature, such as \"Gp-9\" in fire ants (\"Solenopsis invicta\"), \"csA\" in social amoeba (\"Dictyostelium discoideum\"), and FLO1 in budding yeast (\"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\").\n\nOn the other hand, a single trait, group reciprocal kindness, is capable of explaining the vast majority of altruism that is generally accepted as \"good\" by modern societies. Imagine a green-bearding behavioral trait whose recognition does not depend on the recognition of some external feature such as beard color, but relies on recognition of the behavior itself. Imagine now that the behavior is altruistic. The success of such a trait in sufficiently intelligent and undeceived organisms is implicit. Moreover, the existence of such a trait predicts a tendency for kindness to unrelated organisms that are apparently kind, even if the organisms are of a completely different species. Moreover, the gene need not be exactly the same, so long as the effect is similar. Multiple versions of the gene—or even meme—would have virtually the same effect in a sort of symbiotic green-bearding cycle of altruism.\n\nWhenever recognition plays a role in evolution, so does deception. Just like the harmless lizard that has evolved a pattern that mimics its poisonous cousin and therefore tricks predators, the selfish creature may pretend to be kind by \"growing a green beard\" (whatever that green beard may be). Thus green-bearding and the selfish-gene theory also give rise to an explanation for the evolution of lies and deceit, characteristics that do not benefit the population as a whole.\n\nAs genes are capable of producing individual altruism, they are capable of producing conflict among genes inside the genome of one individual. This phenomenon is called intragenomic conflict and arises when one gene promotes its own replication in detriment to other genes in the genome. The classic example is segregation distorter genes that cheat during meiosis or gametogenesis and end up in more than half of the functional gametes. These genes can persist in a population even when their transmission results in reduced fertility. Egbert Leigh compared the genome to \"a parliament of genes: each acts in its own self-interest, but if its acts hurt the others, they will combine together to suppress it\" to explain the relative low occurrence of intragenomic conflict.\n\nThe Price equation is a covariance equation that is a mathematical description of evolution and natural selection. The Price equation was derived by George R. Price, working in London to rederive W. D. Hamilton's work on kin selection.\n\nBesides Richard Dawkins and George C. Williams, other biologists and philosophers have expanded and refined the selfish-gene theory, such as John Maynard Smith, George R. Price, Robert Trivers, David Haig, Helena Cronin, David Hull, Philip Kitcher, and Daniel C. Dennett.\n\nThe gene-centric view has been opposed by Ernst Mayr, Stephen Jay Gould, David Sloan Wilson, and philosopher Elliott Sober. An alternative, multilevel selection (MLS), has been advocated by E. O. Wilson, David Sloan Wilson, Sober, Richard E. Michod, and Samir Okasha.\n\nWriting in the \"New York Review of Books\", Gould has characterized the gene-centered perspective as confusing book-keeping with causality. Gould views selection as working on many levels, and has called attention to a hierarchical perspective of selection. Gould also called the claims of \"Selfish Gene\" \"strict adaptationism\", \"ultra-Darwinism\", and \"Darwinian fundamentalism\", describing them as excessively \"reductionist\". He saw the theory as leading to a simplistic \"algorithmic\" theory of evolution, or even to the re-introduction of a teleological principle. Mayr went so far as to say \"Dawkins' basic theory of the gene being the object of evolution is totally non-Darwinian.\"\n\nGould also addressed the issue of selfish genes in his essay \"Caring groups and selfish genes\". Gould acknowledged that Dawkins was not imputing conscious action to genes, but simply using a shorthand metaphor commonly found in evolutionary writings. To Gould, the fatal flaw was that \"no matter how much power Dawkins wishes to assign to genes, there is one thing that he cannot give them – direct visibility to natural selection.\" Rather, the unit of selection is the phenotype, not the genotype, because it is phenotypes that interact with the environment at the natural-selection interface. So, in Kim Sterelny's summation of Gould's view, \"gene differences do not cause evolutionary changes in populations, they register those changes.\" Richard Dawkins replied to this criticism in a later book, \"The Extended Phenotype\", that Gould confused particulate genetics with particulate embryology, stating that genes do \"blend\", as far as their effects on developing phenotypes are concerned, but that they do not blend as they replicate and recombine down the generations.\n\nSince Gould's death in 2002, Niles Eldredge has continued with counter-arguments to gene-centered natural selection. Eldredge notes that in Dawkins' book \"A Devil's Chaplain\", which was published just before Eldredge's book, \"Richard Dawkins comments on what he sees as the main difference between his position and that of the late Stephen Jay Gould. He concludes that it is his own vision that genes play a causal role in evolution,\" while Gould (and Eldredge) \"sees genes as passive recorders of what worked better than what\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38292038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38292038", "title": "Gerd B. Achenbach", "text": "Gerd B. Achenbach\n\nGerd B. Achenbach (born February 11, 1947 in Hameln as \"Gerd Böttcher\") is a German philosopher. He is widely noted for founding the world's first philosophical practice in 1981, a contemporary movement in practical philosophy. He received a doctorate in philosophy under Odo Marquard in 1981.\n\nDeveloping since the 1980s, practitioners of philosophical counseling ordinarily have a doctorate or minimally a master's degree in philosophy and offer their philosophical counseling or consultation services to clients in lieu of, or in conjunction with, more traditional psychotherapy. According to Shlomit C. Schuster, \"Achenbach maintains that philosophy is really understood only through its practice, through a personal empathic experience and intellectual cultivation of the subjects of thought\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11224528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11224528", "title": "Gift basket", "text": "Gift basket\n\nA gift basket, or fruit basket is typically a gift delivered to the recipient at their home or workplace. A variety of gift baskets exist: some contain fruit; while others might contain dry or canned foods such as tea, crackers and jam; or the basket might include a combination of fruit and dried good items. Gourmet gift baskets typically include exotic fruit, and often include quality cheese and wine, as well as other nonfood items. Gift baskets are often sent for special occasions—such as holidays—or as a thank-you or congratulations gift.\n\nA fruit bouquet is a fruit arrangement in the form of bouquet. The fruit is cut in the shape of flowers and leaves, and is arranged in the container with the help of sticks. A complete arrangement looks like a bouquet of flowers. Typically, a fruit bouquet is delivered to the recipient at their home or workplace.\n\nOften these bouquets will be made to suit the recipients' needs, such as diabetic, vegan, vegetarian, gluten intolerance or wheat intolerance. Common fruit bouquet items include apples, artichokes, avocados, bananas, cheeses, grapes, lychees, mangoes, oranges, papayas, pineapples, pomegranates, strawberries, and Chocolates.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17732773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17732773", "title": "Haridasa Thakur", "text": "Haridasa Thakur\n\nHaridasa Thakur (IAST ) (born 1451 or 1450) was a prominent Hindu Vaishnava saint known for being instrumental in the initial propagation of the Hare Krishna movement. He is considered to be the most famous convert of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, apart from Rupa Goswami and Sanatana Goswami. His story of integrity and unflinching faith in the face of extreme adversity is told in Chaitanya Charitamrita, \"Antya lila\". Besides being an ex-Muslim, he is famous because of his dedication to the religious practice of constantly chanting the names of God. Haridasa Thakura and Advaita Acharya, two senior and well-respected religious personalities of Gaudiya Vaishnavism in the local area of Mayapur, prayed for the descent of the \"yugavatara\" (avatar of the era), believed to be Chaitanya. As an associate of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, he is named the acharya, or guru, of the holy name. Due to his constant prayer and meditation on the names of God, he personified compassion, while being brutally beaten by Muslim aggressors he prayed incessantly that The Lord may forgive them. It is believed that Chaitanya Mahaprabhu himself designated Haridasa as \"\", meaning the 'teacher of the Name'. Haridasa Thakura, was a devotee of God, Krishna, and had practiced chanting the names of the Lord, Hare Krishna, 300,000 times daily.\n\nHaridasa Thakur was a prominent Vaishnava convert from Islam and is now venerated as a Hindu saint. From the very beginning of Chaitanya's 16th century \"bhakti\" movement in Bengal, Haridasa Thakur and other born Muslims as well as those of various faiths joined together to spread love of God. This openness received a boost from Bhaktivinoda Thakura's broad-minded vision in the late 19th century and was institutionalized by Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati in his Gaudiya Matha in the 20th century. A disciple of Bhaktisiddhanta, Srila A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, is the founder of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness, that celebrates festivals memory of Haridasa Thakura in India and worldwide.\n\nHowever one of the early records of the period by Isana Nagara, (c. 1564), author of the \"Advaita-prakasa\", describes contemporary condition of the Hindus under 'Ala-ud-din Hussain Shah (1493–1519):\n\nAccording to Murari Gupta's \"Krishna chaitanya charitamria\", \"mlecchas\" (a word used for those who do not follow the four regulative principles) are the objects of Lords saving mercy, and as is the case of Haridasa shows, it produces even a great saint. While in contrast to this, another biographer, Kavi Karnapura, in his \"Krishna Chaitanya Chartamritam Maha-vakyam\", written in Sanskrit in 1542, makes no explicit references to Islam, and when referring to the famed saint Haridasa, the author does not speak of his parentage. The earliest biography however, \"Chaitanya Bhagavata\", would avoid use of the word 'mleccha', but would use 'yavana' some fifty times and it appears that the author himself knows more about Islam than an average Hindu will do. While some contend that Haridasa was born of Muslim parents and instead was simply \"brought up\" by them, \"Chaitanya Bhagavata\" suggests that apostasy from Islam was a capital offense in Bengal at the time and local qazi became aware of the conversion of Haridasa and brought him before the district governor, also a Muslim. Haridasa defends himself on the basis that there is only one God with many names. In this remarkable scene and speech Vaishnava convert Haridasa Thakur refuses to recite from a Muslim scripture, and was therefore sentenced, beaten and left for dead in the river. He however recovered instantly, convincing many he was a pir, a special mystical person. As a result, according to the author of Chaitanya Bhagavata, qazi was removed from the office. Some suggest that the episode illustrates, that it was the pressure of communal prestige rather than desire of the governor to instill the law, that resulted in the punishment of Haridasa, when he was canned on the marketplaces. In contrast with it, even if Hussain Shah was depicted as a destructive ruler in Orissa, author attests that many yavanas were devoted to Chaitanya, and would weep over Chaitanya and confess their faith in him.\n\nThe elements of the historiographies of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Chaitanya Charitamrta and Chaitanya Bhagavata contain main points illustrating the religious bigotry of the Muslims and the consequent persecution of the Hindus, Vaishnavas at the period. Both books retell a famous episode in the life of Chaitanya. He had introduced the public worship in the form of public kirtana and this enraged the local Muslim ruler. To prevent the recurrences of public kirtana the qazi patrolled the streets of Nadiya with a party. After organizing a large civil march, Chaitanya discussed with quazi the situation, who appears in more chastened mood. Author of Chaitanya Charitamrita attributes the change in the quazi's attitude to a miracle. In Chaitanya Chariamrita however it appears describes an overriding order by a superior of quazi to respect \"sankirtan\" Chaitanya, that was issued by the Husain Shah himself, who was impressed with the popularity of the saint. Ishana in chapter 7 of his \"Advaita-prakasa\" introduces Haridasa, being originally a Muslim, Haridasa is such an anomalous figure that his presence in the community seems to require explanation. Although Chaitanya himself insisted that anyone who is devoted to Krishna automatically becomes a brahmana, there were only very few non-brahmana, who played a role of leadership in the young group of Gaudiya Vaishnava movement. Ishana uses a reference from Bhagavata Purana (S.Bhag 10.13-14) to support high place of Haridasa in Gaudiya Vaishnavism, and to illustrate spiritual power of his guru, Advaita, to elevate him to such a position.\n\nBorn in the village of Buron (Budana), in the present district of Sat-khira, which was previously a sub-division of Khulna, now in Bangladesh. Haridasa was 35 years older than Chaitanya Mahaprabhu and his prayers along with prayers of Advaita Acharya were the reason for Chaitanya Mahaprabhu descent. Ishana Nagara in his book \"Advaita Prakasha\", explains in great length that Haridasa Thakur was a follower of Advaita Acharya and also his close friend, he was raised in a Muslim family and then converted to Vaishnavism as a young man. Advaita Acharya repeatedly proclaims that becoming a Vaishnava, regardless of one's background, removes all past conditioning.\n\nWhen Haridasa Thakura was a young devotee of the Lord, he was allured by the incarnation of Maya-devi, but Haridasa easily passed the test because of his unalloyed devotion to Lord Krsna. He also believed to have stayed and chanted in a cave with a notorious snake, however, seemed unaffected by all of this. He did not even seem to be aware of the snake's presence.\n\nHaridasa first became associated with Advaita Acarya. Haricarana Dasa, the biographer of Advaita Acharya says that all the demigods in heaven heard prayers of Advaita and reveal themselves to him, therefore when Advaita saw Haridasa, he could immediately recognizes that he was Brahma incarnate and named him Hari-dasa (literary meaning servant of God). He instructs Haridasa to recite Krishna's names and assures him that Krishna will always show mercy to Haridasa. The close relationship between the two and the fact that Advaita was feeding a Muslim, became a subject of malicious gossip. This apparent anomaly create a stir in a brahmana community, where others could not understand how a powerful ascetic was disregarding a convention of keeping a distance from Muslims. The fact that community was disturbed is reflected in both Chaitanya Charitamrita and in Chaitanya Bhagavata. Haricarana Dasa in his historical records, confirms that while Advaita was from the higher ranks of Bengali brahmana community, he completely ignored the facts about Haridasa's background, being impressed with the young man's heartfelt devotion. While others became upset with Advaitas attention to Haridasa, and threatened to excommunicate Advaita, Advaita tells Haridasa to pay no attention to 'those petty people' and Advaita schedules a fire ceremony, agnihotra for the morning, and when preparations for this ritual to begin, there is no fire to be found in the whole town, and because of this whole life of the village is at a standstill. Advaita points out to all local brahmana priests that if priests are true to their religious teachings, there must be fire, and tells them to approach Haridasa with dried grass in their hands. When Haridasa relights all the fires with his potency, he also according to this record, manifests his four-faced Brahma-like form. While Agni, deity of Vedas responsible for fire is under control of the brahmanas, its Muslim born Haridasa, who lights the fires lost by all brahmanas in the village by the power of his devotion, 'the purity those \"born\" brahmana have lost.\n\nAccording to the philosophy of the holy name given by Haridasa Thakura, if you are on the platform of \"namabhasa\" (early or reflective stage of the pure chanting), it gives the chanter liberation, moksa. Whereas pure chanting gives \"prema\", or 'Love of God'.\n\nAn episode from Chaitanya Charitamrita illustrates different side of the life of Haridasa Thakura, and does not allude to the trial of the Haridasa by the Muslim ruler, but gives details of a sakta brahmana, who would hire a harlot to try (unsuccessfully) to seduce the celibate saint. In this story the avenging instruments of divine justice are none other than the agents of the Muslim king, who eventually punishes Ramachandra Khan.(CC Antya. 3.98-163)\n\nHaridasa Thakur was chanting mantra consisting of the names \"Hare\", \"Krishna\" and \"Rama\". Hare Krishna mantra appears originally in the :\n\n<poem>\n\"Hare Krishna Hare Krishna\"\n\"Krishna Krishna Hare Hare\"\n\"Hare Rama Hare Rama\"\n\"Rama Rama Hare Hare\"\n</poem>\n\nIt is often referred to as the \"Maha Mantra\" (great mantra) by practitioners.\n\nFollowing the footsteps of Haridasa Thakur in 1966, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada established ISKCON (the International Society for Krishna Consciousness), a branch of the Brahma-Madhva-Gaudiya Vaishnava sampradaya, and introduced the \"Hare Krishna\" mantra to the West, described as: \"an easy yet sublime way of liberation in the Age of Kali.\"\n\nHe was asked to join forces with Nityananda who was older than Chaitanya by some eight years, and he believed to infuse into the movement a great passion. Haridasa and Nityananda are famed for conversion of two notorious scoundrels, Jagai and Madhai, of Navadvipa into the new faith. They are considered important lieutenants in the campaign for spreading the \"sankirtana\" movement, chanting of the holy names: Brahma, in the form of Haridasa Thakura, and later, Balarama as Nityananda.\n\nDifferent associates of Chaitanya with this name include:\n\nHaridasa Thakur in Gaudiya Vaishnavism is believed to be a combined incarnation of Brahma Mahatapa, the son of Richika Muni and Prahlada. The respected Murari Gupta has written in his Chaitanya Charitamrita that this sage’s son picked a tulasi leaf and offered it to Krishna without having washed it first. His father then cursed him to become a mleccha in his next life. He was thus born as Haridasa, a great devotee.\n\n\"Nabadwip-dhama-mahatmya\" by Bhaktivinoda Thakur has written the following account of how Brahma became Haridasa Thakur:\n\nFrom the above it is understood that he was an incarnation of the secondary creator Brahma. It is said that in order to overcome his pride, he asked for a birth in a lowly family. Similar description is found in \"Advaita-vilasa\".\n\nLast years Haridasa has spent in Jagannatha Puri as a close associate of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu. One time Caitanya Mahaprabhu took Haridasa Thakura within the flower garden, and in a very secluded place He showed him his residence. He asked Haridasa to remain there and chant the Hare Krishna mantra, and said that He would personally come there to meet him every day. “Remain here peacefully and look at the cakra on top of the temple and offer obeisances. As for as your prasadam is concerned, I shall arrange to have it sent here”. Although Haridasa was not allowed to visit the temple because of the custom, Chaitanya promised to come and see him daily. To the belief of Gaudiya Vaishnavas this indicates that Haridasa Thakura was so advanced in spiritual life that although he was considered unfit to enter the temple of Jagannatha, he’s being personally visited by the lord every day. Prabhupada however on a number of occasions states that one should not imitate the behavior of Haridasa Thakura. He says the spiritual master gives different orders to different disciples:\n\nHe reasons ill who tells that Vaishnavas die When thou art living still in Sound! The Vaishnavas die to live & living try To spread the holy name around!\nVerse by Bhaktivinoda Thakura on the tomb of Haridasa Thakura at Puri, India, published in Swami Prabhupada's Narada Bhakti Sutra, (3.50, purport).\n\nIt is believed that Haridasa was buried on the ocean shore by Caitanya himself. Dr. A. N. Chatterjee makes a point in his doctoral thesis entitled \"Chaitanya's impact on medieval Indian society\" that death of Haridasa Thakura is one of the most important incidents which deserve mention when dealing with the last few years of Caitanya Mahaprabhus life. Haridasa dies after most of other Gaudiya Vaishnavas depart home from Puri, he collapses one day while singing Krishnas name. He is then placing a foot of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu on his chest and dies crying out \"Sri Krishna Chaitanya\".\nEven when mahatmas, great souls, do appear in human society, they are often not appreciated or understood. Illustrating Gaudiya Vaishnava perspective on it Prabhupada writes:\n\nHowever, if one gets the association of a such mahatma and is receptive to his blessings, it is believed that one will infallibly be benefited.\n\nFor more details of his life story see Chaitanya Bhagavata In this text Haridasa's tribulations are given in detail.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6183821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6183821", "title": "Ion Dragoumis", "text": "Ion Dragoumis\n\nIon Dragoumis (; September 14, 1878 – July 31, 1920) was a Greek diplomat, philosopher, writer and revolutionary.\n\nBorn in Vogatsiko, Dragoumis was the son of Stephanos Dragoumis who was foreign minister under Charilaos Trikoupis. The family originated from Vogatsiko in Kastoria regional unit. Ion's great-grandfather, Markos Dragoumis (1770–1854), was a member of the Filiki Eteria revolutionary organisation.\n\nIon Dragoumis studied law at Athens University and, in 1899, entered the diplomatic branch of the Greek Foreign Ministry. In 1897, he enlisted in the Greek Army and fought in the Greco-Turkish War of 1897.\n\nIn 1902, Dragoumis was made deputy consul in the Greek consulate at Monastir (present-day Bitola). In 1903, he became head of the consulate at Serres and later went on to serve in Plovdiv, Burgas, Alexandria and Alexandroupolis. In 1907, he was assigned to the embassy in Constantinople.\n\nIn 1905, during his time as the Vice-Consul of Greece in Alexandria, Dragoumis met and started a love affair with the writer Penelope Delta, who was married to the businessman Stephanos Delta. Out of respect for her husband and children, Dragoumis and Delta eventually decided to separate, but continued to correspond passionately until 1912, when Dragoumis started a relationship with the famous stage actress Marika Kotopouli.\n\nDragoumis became instrumental in the Macedonian Struggle. In Macedonia, a new Filiki Eteria was founded, under the leadership of Anastasios Picheon from Ochrid, whilst in Athens, the Macedonian Committee was formed in 1904 by Dragoumis' father, Stephanos Dragoumis.\n\nIn 1907, he published the book \"Martyron kai Iroon Aima\" (Martyrs’ and Heroes’ Blood), which presented his views on the situation in Macedonia and on what the Greek government should do to more properly defend the Greek element there. During this period, he also toyed with the idea of a Greek-Ottoman Empire, believing that Greeks, already having control of commerce and finance, would also gain political power in such an arrangement.\n\nIn 1909, the Goudi Revolt broke out and his father, Stephanos Dragoumis became Prime Minister of Greece. However, the force behind the new Prime Minister was Eleftherios Venizelos. When the First Balkan War broke out, Dragoumis travelled to Thessaloniki as an attaché to Crown Prince (later King) Constantine.\n\nIn 1915, he resigned from the diplomatic corps; having entered Greek politics as an independent, he was elected to the Greek Parliament for Florina Prefecture.\n\nOn July 30, 1920 an attempt was made to assassinate Venizelos at the Gare de Lyon railway station in Paris. The next day, July 31, Dragoumis was stopped by Pavlos Gyparis, head of the Venizelist Democratic Security Battalions (Δημοκρατικά Τάγματα Ασφαλείας) and executed as a form of payback.\n\nThough her relationship with him ended many years before, Penelope Delta deeply mourned Dragoumis, and after he was killed wore nothing but black until her own death two decades later. In the late 1930s she received Dragoumis' diaries and archives, entrusted to her by his brother Philip. She managed to dictate 1000 pages of manuscripted comment on Dragoumis' work, before deciding to take her own life in 1941.\n\nIn 1986, the journalist Freddy Germanos (1934–1999) wrote the novel \"I Ektelesi\" (The Execution), about Ion Dragoumis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25879986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25879986", "title": "Jason Walter Brown", "text": "Jason Walter Brown\n\nJason W. Brown M.D (born April 14, 1938 in New York) is a neurologist and writer of works in neuropsychology and philosophy of mind. He has been a reviewer and recipient of grants and fellowships from the National Institutes of Health and the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation and is or has been on the editorial boards of leading journals in his field. He has written 14 books, edited 4 others, and more than 200 articles.\n\nPremedical studies at the University of California in Los Angeles, graduation from Berkeley in 1959. Medical school at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles, with M.D. in 1963, internship at St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Washington, D.C.\n\nHe returned to Los Angeles for a residency in neurology at UCLA. 1967–1969 in the Army, in Korea and San Francisco. In 1969, he took a post-doctoral fellowship at the Boston Veteran's Hospital. In 1970, he was invited to the staff of Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in New York as assistant professor. In 1972, he published his first book, Aphasia, Apraxia, and Agnosia. In 1976, he received a fellowship from the Foundations Fund for Research in Psychiatry to spend a year at the Centre Neuropsychologique et Neurolinguistique in Paris. On his return, he joined the staff of New York University Medical Center, eventually as Clinical Professor in neurology. The academic year 1978–79 was spent as Visiting Associate Professor at Rockefeller University.\n\nThe Center for Cognition and Communication (CCC) was established to provide treatment for clients with head injury, stroke, and other acquired and developmental disorders of cognition.\n\nSince 2002, Prof. Jason W. Brown and his wife Carine house and co-organize the Whitehead Psychology Nexus workshops on South of France.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDr. Brown has written over 200 articles.\n\nRecent articles:\n\nBrown J.W. (2014) Feeling, in Journal of Mind and Behavior, 2014, in press\n\nBrown, J. (2014) Feeling. Journal of Mind and Behavior. 35:\n\nBrown, J. (2017) Microgenetic theory of perception, memory and the mental state Journal of Consciousness Studies, 24:51-70.\n\nBrown, J. (2018) The nature of existence. In: Orpheus’ Glance: Selected papers on process philosophy, 2002-2017. P. Stenner and M. Weber Eds) Les Editions Chromatika, Belgium\n\nBrown, J. (2018) A process theory of morality, In M. Pachalska and J. Kropotov (Eds) Psychology, Neuropsychology and Neurophysiology: Studies in Microgenetic Theory. IMPULS, Krakow\n\nBrown, J. (2018) Memory and thought. In: Texeira, M-T and Pickering, J. (Eds) Proceedings of the Whitehead conference in the Azores, 2017, Nature and Process. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2018-9, in press\n\nBrown, J. (2018) Theoretical note on the nature of the present. Process Studies, 2018, in press\n\n"}
{"id": "2702403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2702403", "title": "Jean-Baptiste de Boyer, Marquis d'Argens", "text": "Jean-Baptiste de Boyer, Marquis d'Argens\n\nJean-Baptiste de Boyer, Marquis d'Argens (June 24, 1704 - January 11, 1771) was a French philosopher and writer.\n\nBoyer was born in Aix-en-Provence. An arch-opponent of the Catholic Church, intolerance and religious oppression, he had to flee his native France and his books were frequently denounced by the Inquisition. In 1724 he accompanied the French ambassador on a journey to Constantinople, where he lived for a year. After an adventurous youth, he was disinherited by his father. He then settled for a time in Amsterdam, where he wrote his famous \"Lettres juives\" (The Hague, 6 vols, 1738-1742), \"Lettres chinoises\" (The Hague, 6 vols, 1739-1742), and \"Lettres cabalistiques\" (2nd ed., 7 vols, 1769); also the \"Mémoires secrets de la république des lettres\" (7 vols, 1743-1748), afterwards revised and augmented as \"Histoire de l'esprit humain\" (Berlin, 14 vols, 1765-1768). He also wrote six novels, the best known of which is Thérèse Philosophe (1748). \n\nHe was invited by Frederick the Great to his court where he spent the greater part of his career. He was appointed a Royal Chamberlain and Director of the Belles-Lettres section of the Academy. He married a Berlin actress, Babette Cochois and had one daughter. D'Argens returned to France in 1769, and died near Toulon on January 11, 1771, aged 66.\n\nHe was a friend of Voltaire, Pierre-Louis de Maupertuis, Leonhard Euler, Samuel Formey, Andreas Sigismund Marggraf, Charles-Louis de Beausobre, the Abbé de Prades, Casanova, Friedrich Nicolai and Moses Mendelssohn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "180716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180716", "title": "Johann Jakob Griesbach", "text": "Johann Jakob Griesbach\n\nJohann Jakob Griesbach (4 January 1745 – 24 March 1812), German biblical textual critic, was born at Butzbach, a small town in the state of Hesse-Darmstadt, where his father, Konrad Kaspar (1705–1777), was pastor. Griesbach's fame rests upon his work in New Testament criticism, in which he inaugurated a new epoch. His solution to the synoptic problem bears his name, but the Griesbach hypothesis has been modernly referred to as the Two-Gospel hypothesis.\nGriesbach was educated at Frankfurt, and at the universities of Tübingen, Leipzig and Halle, where he became one of J. S. Semler's most ardent disciples. It was Semler who induced him to turn his attention to the textual criticism of the New Testament. At the close of his undergraduate career he undertook a literary tour through Germany, the Netherlands, France and England. In England he may have met Henry Owen whose seminal work \"Observations on the Four Gospels\" (1764) is listed among the books of Griesbach's estate, although he does not seem to have acknowledged any indebtedness to Owen.\n\nOn his return to Halle, Griesbach acted for some time as \"Privatdozent\", but in 1773 was appointed to a professorial chair; in 1775 he went to the University of Jena, where he spent the rest of his life (though he received calls to other universities).\n\nGriesbach's critical edition of the New Testament first appeared at Halle, in three volumes, in 1774-1775. The first volume contained the first three Gospels, synoptically arranged; the second, the Epistles and the book of Revelation. All the historical books were reprinted in one volume in 1777, the synoptical arrangement of the Gospels having been abandoned as inconvenient. Of the second edition, considerably enlarged and improved, the first volume appeared in 1796 and the second in 1806 (Halle and London). Of a third edition, edited by David Schulz, only the first volume, containing the four Gospels, appeared (1827).\n\nFor the construction of his critical text Griesbach took as his basis the \"Elzevir\" edition. Where he differed from it he placed the \"Elzevir\" reading on the inner margin along with other readings he thought worthy of special consideration (these last, however, being printed in smaller type). To all the readings on this margin he attached special marks indicating the precise degree of probability in his opinion attaching to each. In weighing these probabilities he proceeded upon a particular theory which in its leading features he had derived from J. A. Bengel and J. S. Semler, dividing all the manuscripts into three main groups – the Alexandrian, the Western and the Byzantine.\n\nA reading supported by only one recension he considered as having only one witness in its favour; those readings which were supported by all the three recensions, or even by two of them, especially if these two were the Alexandrian and the Western, he unhesitatingly accepted as genuine. Only when each of the three recensions gives a different reading does he proceed to discuss the question on other grounds.\n\nSee his \"Symbolae criticae ad supplendas et corrigendas variarum N. T. lectionum collectiones\" (Halle, 1785, 1793), and his \"Commentarius criticus in textum Graecum N. T.\", which extends to the end of Mark and discusses the more important various readings with great care and thoroughness (Jena, 1794 if.).\n\nAmong the other works of Griesbach (which are comparatively unimportant) may be mentioned his university thesis \"De codicibus quatuor evangelislarum Origenianis\" (Halle, 1771) and a work upon systematic theology (\"Anleitung zur Kenntniss der populären Dogmatik\", Jena, 1779). His \"Opuscula\", consisting chiefly of university \"Programs\" and addresses, were edited by Gabler (2 vols, Jena, 1824).\n\nIn 1776 Griesbach published his Greek Gospel synopsis of Matthew, Mark and Luke as a volume separate from his critical edition of the New Testament (cf. above), of which it had previously been a part, and thereby established the tool of a synopsis as an essential research aid in New Testament studies.\n\nFor Griesbach's hypothesis concerning the interrelation of the Gospel accounts of Matthew, Mark and Luke, and its modern variant, see Griesbach hypothesis.\n\nTo mark the bicentenary of the publication of Griesbach's Gospel synopsis as a separate volume a group of distinguished international biblical scholars met in July 1976 at Münster/Westphalia for \"The Johann Jakob Griesbach Bicentenary Colloquium 1776-1976\".\n\nA selection of the papers presented at the colloquium appraising Griesbach's life, work and influence, aimed \"to indicate why an understanding of this scholar's contribution to New Testament criticism is important both for the history of New Testament scholarship and for contemporary research\", together with the text in Latin and in English translation of \"The Dissertation of J. J. Griesbach, Doctor of Theology and Principal Professor in the University of Jena, in which he demonstrates that the entire Gospel of Mark has been extracted from the Gospels of Matthew and Luke, written in the name of the University of Jena (1789–1790), now revised and furnished with many additions\", are to be found in Bernard Orchard and Thomas R. W. Longstaff (ed.), \"J. J. Griesbach: Synoptic and Text-Critical Studies 1776-1976\", Volume 34 in the SNTS Monograph Series (Cambridge University Press, hardback 1978, paperback 2005 ).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7309111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7309111", "title": "John Macquarrie", "text": "John Macquarrie\n\nJohn Macquarrie (1919–2007) was a Scottish-born theologian, philosopher and Anglican priest. He was the author of \"Principles of Christian Theology\" (1966) and \"Jesus Christ in Modern Thought\" (1991). Timothy Bradshaw, writing in the \"Handbook of Anglican Theologians\", described Macquarrie as \"unquestionably Anglicanism's most distinguished systematic theologian in the second half of the 20th century.\"\n\nMacquarrie was born on 27 June 1919 in Renfrew, into a devout Presbyterian family. His father was an elder in the Church of Scotland with strong Gaelic roots. Macquarrie was educated at Paisley Grammar School before studying philosophy at the University of Glasgow under the distinguished scholar Charles Arthur Campbell (MA 1940) and obtained a degree in theology (BD 1943).\n\nMacquarrie enlisted in the British Army and served from 1943 to 1948. He was ordained as a Presbyterian minister in the Church of Scotland in 1945 and then served in the Royal Army Chaplains Department (1945–1948). After demobilization he served as a parish minister in the Church of Scotland at St Ninian's Church, Brechin (1948–1953).\n\nMacquarrie returned to the University of Glasgow to study for a PhD, which he was awarded in 1954 while serving as lecturer in systematic theology at Trinity College, Glasgow. His supervisor was Ian Henderson who, despite having been a pupil of Karl Barth at Basle, was theologically more closely aligned with his disputant, Rudolf Bultmann.\n\nIn 1962 Macquarrie was appointed Professor of Systematic Theology at Union Theological Seminary, New York City. During his time in the United States Macquarrie became a member of the Episcopal Church, part of the Anglican Communion. While in Scotland, he had long been attracted to the Anglican church there, but in deference to his family's feelings and their strong Presbyterian roots, he maintained his membership in the Presbyterian Church of Scotland. His involvement in the Episcopal Church in the United States eventually led him to be ordained priest by the Bishop of New York on 16 June 1965. On the next day (the Feast of Corpus Christi) he celebrated his first Eucharist at the Church of St Mary the Virgin in New York City.\n\nHe was Lady Margaret Professor of Divinity in the University of Oxford and a canon residentiary of Christ Church, Oxford, from 1970 until 1986. On retirement he continued to live in Oxford and was appointed a professor emeritus and a canon emeritus. From 1996 he had been the Martin Heidegger Professor of Philosophical Theology at the Graduate Theological Foundation in the United States.\n\nMacquarrie was awarded the Territorial Decoration in 1962. In 1964 the University of Glasgow conferred the degree of Doctor of Letters on him and in 1969 the university awarded him the degree of Doctor of Divinity \"honoris causa\". On his appointment to the Lady Margaret chair at Oxford he incepted as a Master of Arts. In 1981 he became a Doctor of Divinity of the University of Oxford and in 1984 he was elected a Fellow of the British Academy. He has also received the honorary degrees of Doctor of Sacred Theology from the University of the South (1967) and the General Theological Seminary (1968), Doctor of Divinity from the Episcopal Theological Seminary of the Southwest (1981), the University of Dayton (1994) and the Graduate Theological Foundation, Indiana, and Doctor of Canon Law from Nashotah House (1986).\n\nHe was the Gifford Lecturer for 1983–1984, lecturing on the topic \"In Search of Deity\".\n\nMacquarrie is often categorised as both an existentialist and a systematic theologian. His most important philosophical influence is the work of Martin Heidegger. Macquarrie remains one of the most important commentators and explainers of Heidegger's work. His co-translation of \"Being and Time\" into English is considered the canonical version. He was also a notable English-language expositor on the theological and philosophical work of Rudolf Bultmann.\n\nAmong Macquarrie's most widely read books are \"Existentialism\", meant as an introduction to the subject, and his major work, \"Principles of Christian Theology\", a work of systematic theology which aims to harmonise existentialism and orthodox Christian thought. His work is characterised by even-handedness to all sides and viewpoints and, although not always readily accessible to those without a good background in philosophy, his writing is considered engaging and often witty - at least judged by the standards of existentialism and systematic theology.\n\nMacquarrie believed that truth value could reside in other faith traditions, although he rejected syncretism. In his book \"Mediators Between Human and Divine: From Moses to Muhammad\" (1996), he wrote:\n\nIn 1964 I published an article entitled 'Christianity and Other Faiths'... [and] I continue to hold the views I expressed then... I believe that, however difficult it may be, we should hold to our own traditions and yet respect and even learn from the traditions of others. I drew the conclusion that there should be an end to proselytizing but that equally there should be no syncretism of the kind typified by the Bahá'í movement. (p. 2)\nIn that book, Macquarrie commented on what he called nine historical figures who were viewed by their followers as mediators between the human and the divine (however it was conceived); Moses, Zoroaster, Lao-Tzu, Buddha, Confucius, Socrates, Krishna, Jesus, and Muhammad. Regarding these \"mediators\", Macquarrie wrote that\n\n[T]here will be no attempt to show that any one of [the mediators] is superior to the others... what has already been said... has shown the impossibility of any such judgment. No human being - and certainly not the present writer - has the exhaustive knowledge of the several mediators or the requisite criteria for making such a judgment. Neither does he or she have the detached situation that would enable a purely objective view of the question. Only God, I suppose, could make such a judgment. (p. 12)\n\nHe concluded that\n\nI do not deny for a moment that the truth of God has reached others through other channels – indeed, I hope and pray that it has. So while I have a special attachment to one mediator, I have respect for them all and have tried to give a fair presentation of each. (p. 12)\nMacquarrie died on 28 May 2007 at the age of 87. His widow, Jenny, died in August 2008. He is survived by two sons and a daughter. His archives are maintained by the Bodleian Library, Oxford. The Macquarrie Project, a multimedia collection which includes Macquarrie's personal research library, lecture recordings, library notations and a tome of sermons, is housed at the Graduate Theological Foundation in Indiana.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36086165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36086165", "title": "John de Ruiter", "text": "John de Ruiter\n\nJohn de Ruiter (born November 11, 1959) is a Canadian nondualist author who conducts meetings and seminars at his College of Integrated Philosophy located in Edmonton, Alberta and abroad.\n\nJohn de Ruiter was born on November 11, 1959, to Dutch immigrant parents in the town of Stettler in Alberta, Canada. He had a brother and two sisters. While still a boy, he was taught shoe repair by his father, who had come from a long line of shoemakers from De Bilt in the Netherlands.\n\nDe Ruiter claims to have experienced a spontaneous state of awakening, at the age of 17. It lasted a year, then left him equally abruptly. Following this experience, de Ruiter spent years in the investigation of mystical and philosophical traditions in an attempt to regain that which he had lost. He concluded that no existing system, religious dogma or technique provided the means to fill the void felt by him. According to de Ruiter's account, only unconditional surrender returned him to the state of awakening.\n\nHe founded Edmonton the College of Integrated Philosophy in 2005. Here he holds weekly meetings when not traveling. The facility is said to be worth $7-million.\n\nDe Ruiter rarely addresses the whole group in public meetings but answers questions on a one-on-one basis with individuals from the audience. He often responds after lengthy pauses, sometimes of half an hour or more. During these periods of silence, de Ruiter claims to be in a deep state of Samadhi. \nDe Ruiter's teaching style has been compared to oral-based teaching of Tibetan Buddhism where detachment and release are also key principles.\n\nProfessor Paul Joosee, in his 2009 study of de Ruiter published in the peer-reviewed academic \"Journal of Contemporary Religion\", concluded that de Ruiter’s silences can inspire devotion in three ways. First, they may elicit projection. In other words, listeners often interpret silence as understanding. Second, silence sometimes serves as a punitive purpose, as a display of power. Third, combined with the act of gazing into another's eyes, silence can create intimacy of a kind usually exclusive to lovers. Followers may confuse an act that usually accompanies intimacy with actual intimacy and feel a loving devotion to de Ruiter.\n\n\"Okayness\" is central to de Ruiter's philosophy. It is best understood as \"loving acceptance\" that may exist even \"in moments of intense sorrow or immense physical pain\". De Ruiter states that \"Truth lives in each one of us,\" and that a high level of awareness that can only come from \"core splitting honesty\" is required to understand that there is no necessity to search. De Ruiter is said to practice and recommend inner quiet and integrity on all levels of life, from the superficial to the profound.\n\nControversy concerning the movement arose in 1999 when, in a public meeting, de Ruiter's wife confronted him after learning that he was involved with two daughters of a devotee who had invested into the organisation. The sisters, themselves followers of de Ruiter, would later sue him in court for support.\n\nFurther controversy has arisen in 2014 after the death of one of de Ruiter's female followers under mysterious circumstances and in 2017, after de Ruiter publicly admitted that he had had sex with a number of his female followers. He has referred to this as the Calling.\n\nJasun Horsley's 2017 book \"Dark Oasis: A Self-Made Messiah Unveiled\" examines de Ruiter's life and teachings in critical and skeptical terms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56227518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56227518", "title": "Moira Gatens", "text": "Moira Gatens\n\nMoira Gatens is an Australian academic, feminist philosopher and current Challis Professor of Philosophy at the University of Sydney. Gatens is a Fellow of Australian Academy of the Humanities and she previously held the Spinoza Chair at the University of Amsterdam, Netherlands.\n\nGatens served as President of the Australasian Association of Philosophy in 2011. She was appointed in her current position as Challis Professor of Philosophy in 2012. She is perhaps best known for her work on feminist philosophy - especially on the place of women in philosophy - for political theory and her unique and original readings of Spinoza's ethics and politics. She is also the most accessible and recognisable proponent of the importance of the place of women in Australian philosophy, having championed numerous graduates and undergraduates in feminist philosophy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15325516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15325516", "title": "Mount Baldy Zen Center", "text": "Mount Baldy Zen Center\n\nMount Baldy Zen Center (MBZC) is a Rinzai Zen monastery of the Nyorai-nyokyo sect, located in the San Gabriel Mountains of the Angeles National Forest region on and founded in 1971 by Kyozan Joshu Sasaki. The monastery — once a Boy Scout camp — became famous when musician Leonard Cohen joined the community in 1994. The monastery served as residence for Sasaki, and is the training center for monastics in his lineage. Other centers in Sasaki's network, including Rinzai-ji, offer the opportunity to practice Zen to laypeople in the lineage. Sasaki died in 2014 at the age of 107.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3087164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3087164", "title": "Muraqabah", "text": "Muraqabah\n\nMurāqabah (ar. to observe) refers to meditation in Sufi terminology. Through murāqbah a person watches over their (spiritual) heart and gains insight into the heart’s relation with its creator and its own surroundings. Murqābah is a core concept in commonly found \"ṭarīqas\" (ar. sufi orders). The objective of murāqbah is to purge one's base characters and develop lofty character in its place.\n\nThe word murāqabah is derived from the base of rā-qāf-bāʿ. The base has the meaning of guarding and watching over with the expectation of noticing any change, unique qualities or abnormalities of a given thing. The word is also on verb scale three, which gives a connotation of exaggeration, overexertion, and partnership. This then implies that the one who is doing murāqabah is diligent and hardworking with the expectation that someone else is also doing a similar task.\n\nIn ancient Arabic, the word murāqabah referred to one who would watch the night sky. They would scan the sky in hopes to see the first signs of early stars to begin their journey. Due to the intense heat and difficult terrain of the Arabian Peninsula, the ability to recognize the constellations and their seasonal divergences was a critical skill. In the classic poem, “the observer of the night is as vigilant as a fish in search of water”.\n\nThis etymology can be connected to the modern linguistical and technical meaning of what murāqabah is understood to be today. Murāqabah is seen to be of twin perspectives, both with a connotation of persistence and exertion. According to al-Qushayrī (d.465/1072) and al-Jurjānī (d.816/1413) murāqabah is for one to be aware that their lord is perpetually aware of his subordinates. Not only is the person continuously in a state of mindfulness but they are also cognizant that their lord is aware as well, creating a reciprocal relation.\n\nOne of the most significant sentiments of the great philosopher and theologian Al-Ghāzālī (d.505/1111) centers around God-consciousness; he propagates that it is the obligation of the creation to be in constant awareness of its Creator. The Creator’s eternal knowledge encompasses the ephemeral existence of mortals, from before their conception to the ages after they have passed on. His Knowledge envelops the external, the internal and the metaphysical. He is the lord and creator and whenever someone remembers him, he is their companion, as it comes in the famous narration, “I am the companion of the one who remembers me”. Once one understands this, they must follow a level of etiquette and protocol which are but not limited to:\n\nHaving humility (ar. tawāḍuʾ) and modesty (ar. ḥayāʿ)\n\nStaying silent and only speaking when appropriate, as it is mentioned in the narration, “the one who believes in Allah and the last day should only speak good or stay quiet”.\n\nResolve to do the best that one can in every action.\n\nRush to do good deeds and avoiding sin.\n\nTo be content with what one must deal with daily (ar. al-raḍāʿ bi al-qaḍāʿ).\n\nContinuous reflection on one’s internal state and world around them. \n\nStanding up for the truth.The physical benefits of murāqabah is akin to the benefits of standard meditation. Metaphysically speaking, the intended result of murāqabah is to refrain from any actions contrary to Allah's pleasure and ultimately maintain one’s mindfulness in a state that one’s Lord finds them (in state of mindfulness) where He is pleased with them and not one where he is displeased with them.\n\nHere are the \"Maqāmāt\" (Arabic: مقامات stages) in which Sufis have broadly categorised their journey of ascension. The categorization is an arbitrary one, and each level is generally further divided into several sublevels. During the process of enlightenment, some stages can merge or overlap each other.<br>\nThis is the starting level of meditation. A person who starts meditation often enters a somnolent or sleep state (\"ghanood غنود\"). With the passage of time, the person goes into a state between sleep and wakefulness. The person can remember seeing something but not specifically what it is.\n\n(Arabic: إدراك - cognition) With continuous practice of meditation, the sleepiness from meditation decreases. When the conscious mind is not suppressed by sleep and is able to focus, the person can receive the spiritual knowledge from his subconscious mind. At this stage, the person is unable to see or hear anything but is able to experience or perceive it.\n\n(Arabic: ورود coming, beginning) When \"Idrāk\" (experience) becomes deep, it is exhibited as sight. The stage of \"Wurūd\" starts when mental concentration is sustained and somnolence is at its minimum. As soon as the mind is focused, the spiritual eye is activated. The conscious mind is not used to see through the spiritual eye so concentration comes and goes. Gradually, the mind gets used to this kind of visions, and the mental focus is sustained. With practice, the visions/experience becomes so deep that the person starts considering himself a part of the experience rather than considering himself an observer.\n\nKashf or ʾlhām(Arabic: كشف/الهام unveiling of arcane knowledge or intuition) is the stage of starting to get information that most other people are unable to observe. In the beginning, this occurs suddenly, without personal control. With practice, the mind gets so energized that it can get this knowledge by will.\n\n(Arabic: شهود evidence) A person can get any information about any event/person at will. This stage is broadly categorized according to activation of the senses:\n\n(Arabic: فتح opening, victory) Closing eyes is no longer necessary for meditation. The person is freed from both space and time and can see/hear/taste/touch anything present anywhere in time and space.\n\n(Arabic: فناء extinction, annihilation) Through a series of stages (\"maqamat\") and subjective experiences (\"ahwal\"), this process of absorbation develops until complete annihilation of the self (\"fana\") takes place, and the person becomes \"al-insanul-kamil\", the \"perfect man\". It is the disintegration of a person's narrow self-concept, social self and limited intellect (feeling like a drop of water aware of being part of the ocean). The stage is also called \"Fana fit tawheed\" (\"extinction with the unity\"), and \"Fana fil Haq\" (Extinction in the reality).\n\n(Arabic: سيرٌ الى الله journey towards the God) The person starts his spiritual journey towards the ultimate reality of the universe, God. It is also called \"Safr-e-Urooji\".\n\n(Arabic: فناء في الله Extinction of the self in God) One of the important phases of mystical experience is attained by the grace of God by a traveller on the mystical path. Now, the person becomes extinct in the will of God. It is important to mention that this is not incarnation or union. Most Sufis passing through this experience have preferred to live in the greatest depth of silence, which transcends all forms and sounds and to enjoy their union with the beloved.\n\n(Arabic: سير من الله journey from the God) Here the person comes back to his existence. It is also called \"Safr-e-Nuzooli\".\n\nNo one can subsist with God, and to believe as such is shirk. What really happens is the person's awareness of God increases so much so that he forgets his own self and is totally lost in his magnificence.\n\n(Arabic: بقاء بالله eternal life in God The Creator) This is the state in which man comes back to his existence and God appoints him to guide the humans. The individual is part of the world but unconcerned about rewards or position in the world. The doctrine is further explained in Sahih Bukhari, which states that God said: \nThere is another verse from Qur'an that is used to explain this concept:\n\nWhen Sufis have come out of the \"Fana fillah\" state and enter \"Baqa billah\", many of them have produced works of unsurpassed glory, especially in the fields of philosophy, literature and music. Such works have crowned the culture of the entire Islamic world and inspired Sufis and non-Sufis for generations. As the great Persian Sufi poet, Hafez of Shiraz, fondly remembered as the \"tongue of the unseen\", said centuries ago: \"He whose heart is alive with love, never dies\". The \"Qur'an\" says:\n\nThere are many different kinds of \"muraqaba\" practiced in various Sufi schools in different parts of the world. Here is a list of the most common ones.\n\n\n\n\nThe Naqshbandi Mujaddidi order has 35 lessons.They are all related to getting closer to Allah and receiving faiz and nur. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30418184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30418184", "title": "Night Fishing (film)", "text": "Night Fishing (film)\n\nNight Fishing (Original Korean title: 파란만장; Paranmanjang, lit. \"Ups and Downs.\" or \"A Checkered Past\") is a 2011 South Korean fantasy-horror short film directed, produced, written by PARKing CHANce (brand name of the brothers, Park Chan-wook and Park Chan-kyong). The lead role is played by K-pop star, Lee Jung-hyun.\n\nIt was shot entirely on the Apple iPhone 4, and was financially supported by KT (South Korea's exclusive distributor of the iPhone at the time), which supplied the duo with 150 million Korean Won (US$133,447). It was screened to over 100 reporters on January 11, 2011, and opened for public release on January 27.\n\nThe film won the Golden Bear for Best Short Film at the 61st Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nA man casually sets up for a fishing trip at the water's edge. Evening comes and a tug on his line presents him with the body of a woman. While he tries to disentangle himself from the fishing lines, she comes alive. The scene changes and the woman is now a shaman priestess in a funeral ritual for a man who drowned in a river. He speaks through her to his relatives, asking for forgiveness.\n\n\nThe film was captured entirely using iPhone 4, with the additional extra lenses and otherwise regular filmmaking equipment.\n\n"}
{"id": "9518556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9518556", "title": "Personal identifier", "text": "Personal identifier\n\nPersonal Identifiers (PID) are a subset of personally identifiable information (PII) data elements, which identify a unique individual and can permit another person to “assume” that individual’s identity without their knowledge or consent. \nThis can occur when PID data elements are used in any of these ways:\n\nThese examples are provided only as guidance. Other PIDs may be used in your location, and they may vary by country or region.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTreated as PID globally, not just for citizens of the EU\n\n"}
{"id": "2756164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2756164", "title": "Petrus Aureolus", "text": "Petrus Aureolus\n\nPetrus Aureolus ( – January 10, 1322) was a scholastic philosopher and theologian. We know little of his life before 1312. After this time, he taught at the Franciscan convent in Bologna, then at the convent in Toulouse, around 1314. He went to Paris in 1316 in order to qualify for his doctorate, where he read the Sentences. In 1318 he was appointed master of theology at the University of Paris. In 1321, he was appointed by his mentor, Pope John XXII, to the position of Archbishop of Aix-en-Provence, but died not long after in 1322.\n\nAuriol's first work was on evangelical poverty, where he argued for a moderate position between those of the spirituals and conventuals. He is best known for the enormous \"Scriptum super primum Sententiarum\", his commentary on the Sentences of Peter Lombard, which runs to more than 1100 folio pages and was eventually printed in Rome in 1596. He also wrote \"Tractatus de principiis\", a non-theological work, while he was lector at the Franciscan convent in Bologna some time before 1312, and some treatises on the Immaculate Conception at the Franciscan convent in Toulouse.\n\nAuriol was at first a Scotist. Later, he arrived at a position closer to that of the nominalist Durandus. He denied the reality of universals, the existence of species and of the active intellect, the distinction between essence and existence, and the distinction between the soul and its faculties. These doctrines are considered by some to have prepared the way for the conceptualism of Ockham. \nOckham was certainly aware of Auriol's work.\n\nHis ability earned for him the titles of \"Doctor Facundus\" and \"Doctor Abundans\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19456309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19456309", "title": "Physicist and Christian", "text": "Physicist and Christian\n\nPhysicist and Christian: A dialogue between the communities (1961) is a book by William G. Pollard. Much of the attention given to the book such as its review in Time magazine has been attributed to the fact that Pollard was not only a well-respected physicist but also an Anglican priest. The book deliberately avoids specific subject matter differences, focusing on religion and science both as human communities. An important theme is the idea that human knowledge—scientific or religious—can be developed only by those, like Pollard, who have \"fully and freely\" given themselves to a human community, whether to the physics community or Christian community or some other, e.g., the United States Marine Corps. Also an important theme is Pollard's argument and cautions against a cultural norm in which scientific knowledge would be objective and public, on the one hand, while religious knowledge would be subjective and private, on the other.\n\nThere are six chapters plus a preface and author's note. The first chapter \"Community vs. Subject Matter\" discusses the benefits of focusing on science and religion as communities, outlining five common frameworks in which religion and science are routinely compared. The first chapter's section on \"Impersonal vs. Personal knowledge\" highlights Werner Heisenberg's May 1958 article in Harper's magazine and Michael Polanyi's 1958 book \"Personal Knowledge\". The second chapter \"Science and Christianity as Communities\" begins by mentioning the work of the well-respected sociologist George Homans and anthropologist Robert Redfield selecting six methods from Redfield's \"The Little Community\" (University of Chicago Press, 1956) with which to study and compare the religion and science communities. In the third chapter \"The Reality of Spirit\", Pollard uses the United States Marine Corps as an example of another community in order to compare it with the religion and science communities and to better explain ancient and modern ideas of spirit. The third chapter's section on \"Spirit and Holy Spirit\" states that Eric Hoffer's \"The True Believer\" \"offers a profound understanding and exceptionally clear insights into the nature of the spirit in the community...\", but takes exception to Hoffer's idea that any spirit from a mass movement and its community, Christian or otherwise, always ends up being bad. The fourth chapter \"Nature and Supernature\" introduces Rudolf Otto's \"The Idea of the Holy\" leading into a discussion about non-conceptual components within the experience of life and how that relates to the science community. The fourth chapter holds that a range of reality can be experienced that is non-conceptual and to illustrate how a portion of reality could appear so, it goes over the idea of higher dimensions using Edwin Abbott's \"Flatland\" as an example. Chapter five \"Knowledge\" discusses epistemology as found in both science and religion communities incorporating ideas from Martin Buber's book \"I and Thou\" and a diagram from Henry Margenau. The sixth chapter \"The Problem of Revelation\" jocularly states \"To one who has known the sense of real achievement which accompanies the gaining of each new understanding and insight in science, the idea of revealed knowledge is likely to seem on a par with copying answers out of an answer book at an examination.\" \n\n\nOne of this book's major influences was the then Pennsylvania State University Dean of Physics Harold K. Schilling, whose lecture Pollard credits as follows. \"The effect of it was to let me realize for the first time that the same emphasis on community which was quite natural and generally understood in the acquisition of Christian knowledge within the Church could be applied in a remarkably parallel fashion to my earlier experience of coming to know physics through my personal involvement in and commitment to the community of physicists.\" \n\nPollard's extensive use of the analogy between the Holy Spirit within the Church and the esprit de corps of United States Marine Corps owes a direct debt to the Reverend Canon Theodore O. Wedel.\n\n\n\"Physicist and [Christian]\" is a good antidote to an impersonal, mechanistic understanding of science or to an individualistic view of Christianity. Its greatest weakness is its failure to do justice to the problem of sin in the empirical community. As a result the distinction between the spirit of the Christian community and the Holy Spirit becomes blurred. Here Pollard's \"Catholic Christianity\" needs to be corrected by a Protestant understanding of the Word of God in the community.\n\n\nTwo subjects of continuing religious and intellectual interest--the relation of science and religion and the matter of education--are given first-rate treatment in recent books by authors speaking with authority. William G. Pollard in [\"Physicist and Christian\"] writes as both atomic scientist and Episcopal clergyman, defining the spheres of physics and religion and showing how the claims and achievements of each, when properly understood, are complementary rather than contradictory.\n\n\n\n\"Learning to be a scientist, being initiated into the scientific community, discovering how to handle scientific concepts, deciding how much weight to give to this or that consideration, or what nuance of interpretation is demanded here or there, has been compared with learning to be a Christian. W.G. Pollard, who is a leading American physicist as well as an Anglican clergyman, has recently written a fascinating book making the comparison in detail.\" \n\n\n\"Yes,\" I said. \"I recently read an interesting book called \"Physcist and Christian\", William G. Pollard (executive director of the Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies and an Episcopal clergyman). He draws heavily on Heim's concept of hyperspace.\"\n"}
{"id": "49207836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49207836", "title": "Plato's unwritten doctrines", "text": "Plato's unwritten doctrines\n\nPlato's so-called unwritten doctrines are metaphysical theories ascribed to him by his students and other ancient philosophers but not clearly formulated in his writings. In recent research, they are sometimes known as Plato's 'principle theory' (German: \"Prinzipienlehre\") because they involve two fundamental principles from which the rest of the system derives. Plato is thought to have orally expounded these doctrines to Aristotle and the other students in the Academy and they were afterwards transmitted to later generations.\n\nThe credibility of the sources that ascribe these doctrines to Plato is controversial. They indicate that Plato believed certain parts of his teachings were not suitable for open publication. Since these doctrines could not be explained in writing in a way that would be accessible to general readers, their dissemination would lead to misunderstandings. Plato therefore supposedly limited himself to teaching the unwritten doctrines to his more advanced students in the Academy. The surviving evidence for the content of the unwritten doctrines is thought to derive from this oral teaching.\n\nIn the middle of the twentieth century, historians of philosophy initiated a wide-ranging project aiming at systematically reconstructing the foundations of the unwritten doctrines. The group of researchers who led this investigation, which became well-known among classicists and historians, came to be called the 'Tübingen School' (in German: \"Tübinger Platonschule\"), because some of its leading members were based at the University of Tübingen in southern Germany. On the other hand, numerous scholars had serious reservations about the project or even condemned it altogether. Many critics thought the evidence and sources used in the Tübingen reconstruction were insufficient. Others even contested the existence of the unwritten doctrines or at least doubted their systematic character and considered them mere tentative proposals. The intense and sometimes polemical disputes between the advocates and critics of the Tübingen School were conducted on both sides with great energy. Advocates suggested it amounted to a 'paradigm shift' in Plato studies.\n\nThe expression 'unwritten doctrines' (in Greek, ἄγραφα δόγματα, \"ágrapha dógmata\") refers to doctrines of Plato taught inside his school and was first used by his student Aristotle. In his treatise on physics, he wrote that Plato had used a concept in one dialogue differently than 'in the so-called unwritten doctrines.' Modern scholars who defend the authenticity of the unwritten doctrines ascribed to Plato lay stress on this ancient expression. They hold that Aristotle used the phrase 'so-called' not in any ironic sense, but neutrally.\n\nThe scholarly literature sometimes also uses the term 'esoteric doctrines.' This has nothing to do with the meanings of 'esoteric' common today: it does not indicate a secret doctrine. For scholars, 'esoteric' indicates only that the unwritten doctrines were intended for a circle of philosophy students inside Plato's school (in Greek, 'esoteric' literally means 'inside the walls'). Presumably they had the necessary preparation and had already studied Plato's published doctrines, especially his Theory of Forms, which is called his 'exoteric doctrine' ('exoteric' means 'outside the walls' or perhaps 'for public consumption').\n\nModern advocates of the possibility of reconstructing the unwritten doctrines are often called in a short and casual way 'esotericists' and their skeptical opponents are thus 'anti-esotericists.'\n\nThe Tübingen School is sometimes called the Tübingen School of Plato studies to distinguish it from an earlier 'Tübingen School' of theologians based at the same university. Some also refer to the 'Tübingen paradigm.' Since Plato's unwritten doctrines were also vigorously defended by the Italian scholar Giovanni Reale, who taught in Milan, some also refer to the 'Tübingen and Milanese School' of Plato interpretation. Reale introduced the term 'protology,' i.e., 'doctrine of the One,' for the unwritten doctrines, since the highest of the principles ascribed to Plato is known as the 'One.'\n\nThe case for the unwritten doctrines involves two steps. The first step consists in the presentation of the direct and circumstantial evidence for the existence of special philosophical doctrines taught orally by Plato. This, it is claimed, shows that Plato's dialogues, which have all survived, do not contain all of his teaching, but only those doctrines suitable for dissemination by written texts. In the second step, the range of sources for the supposed content of the unwritten doctrines is evaluated and the attempt made to reconstruct a coherent philosophical system.\n\nThe chief evidence and arguments for the existence of Plato's unwritten doctrines are the following:\n\n\n\nIf the \"Seventh Letter\" is authentic, Plato sharply disapproved of disclosing the contents of the supposed unwritten doctrines in writing. However, no obligation to remain silent was imposed upon the 'initiated.' The 'esoteric' character of the teachings should not be understood as a requirement to keep them secret or as a ban on writing about them. Indeed, students in the Academy did later publish writings about the unwritten doctrines or reuse them in their own works. This 'indirect tradition,' the evidence drawn from other ancient authors, supplies a basis for the reconstruction of doctrines that Plato communicated only orally.\n\nThe following sources are most frequently used for reconstructing Plato's unwritten doctrines:\n\nThe advocates of the Tübingen School have intensively examined the scattered evidence and testimony in the sources in order to reconstruct the principles of Plato's unwritten doctrines. They see in these teachings the core of Plato's philosophy and have reached a fairly settled picture of their fundamentals, though many important details remain unknown or controversial. A notable feature of the Tübingen paradigm is the contention that the unwritten doctrines are not unrelated to the written doctrines, rather there is a close and logical connection between them.\n\nInsofar as the Tübingen interpretation corresponds to the authentic teaching of Plato, it shows that his principles opened up a new path in metaphysics. His Theory of Forms opposes many views of the Eleatics, a school of Pre-Socratic philosophy. The principles at the foundation of Plato's unwritten doctrines indeed break with the convictions of the Eleatics, who held that only perfect, unchanging Being exists. Plato's principles replace this Being with a new concept of Absolute Transcendence, that is somehow higher than Being. They posit a sphere of absolutely perfect, 'Transcendental Being' beyond the being of ordinary things. 'Transcendental Being' thus somehow exists at a higher level than ordinary things. According to this model, all familiar kinds of being are in a certain way imperfect, since the descent from Transcendental Being to ordinary being involves a restriction of the original, absolute perfection.\n\nPlato's Theory of Forms asserts that the world which appears to our senses derives from the perfect, unchanging Forms. For him the realm of the Forms is an objective, metaphysical reality, which is independent of the lower sort of Being in the ordinary objects we perceive with our senses. For Plato, the Forms, not the objects of sense, are real Being: strictly, they and not the objects we experience are reality. Thus the Forms are the really existing things. As models for the individual objects we sense, the Forms cause ordinary objects to appear the way they do and lend them some secondary kind of existence.\n\nJust as the Theory of Forms in Plato's published dialogues is supposed to explain the existence and features of the world of appearances, the two principles of the unwritten doctrines are supposed to explain the existence and features of the realm of the Forms. The Theory of Forms and the principles of the unwritten doctrines fit together in a way that provides a unified theory of all existence. The existence of the Forms as well as the objects we sense are derived from two fundamental principles.\n\nThe two fundamental 'ur-principles' that are thought to constitute the basis of Plato's unwritten doctrines are :\n\n\nPlato is said to have described the Indefinite Dyad as 'the Great and the Small' \"(Gk., to méga kai to mikrón)\". This is the principle or source of more and less, of excess and deficiency, of ambiguity and indefiniteness, and of multiplicity. It does not imply unlimitedness in the sense of a spatial or quantitative infinity; instead, the indefiniteness consists in a lack of determinateness and therefore of fixed form. The Dyad is called 'indefinite' to distinguish it from definite two-ness, i.e., the number two, and to indicate that the Dyad stands above mathematics.\n\nThe One and the Indefinite Dyad are the ultimate ground of everything because the realm of Plato's Forms and the totality of reality derive from their interaction. The whole manifold of sensory phenomena rests in the end on only two factors. Form issues from the One, which is the productive factor; the formless Indefinite Dyad serves as the substrate for the activity of the One. Without such a substrate, the One could produce nothing. All Being rests upon the action of the One upon the Indefinite Dyad. This action sets limits to the formless, gives it Form and particularity, and is therefore also the principle of individuation that brings separate entities into existence. A mixture of both principles underlies all Being.\n\nDepending upon which principle dominates in a thing, either order or disorder reigns. The more chaotic something is, the more strongly the presence of the Indefinite Dyad is at work.\n\nAccording to the Tübingen interpretation, the two opposing principles determine not only the ontology of Plato's system, but also its logic, ethics, epistemology, political philosophy, cosmology, and psychology. In ontology the opposition of the two principles corresponds to the opposition between Being and Not-Being. The more the Indefinite Dyad influences a thing, the less it has of Being and the lower its ontological rank. In logic, the One supplies identity and equality, while the Indefinite Dyad supplies difference and inequality. In ethics, the One signifies Goodness (or virtue, \"aretḗ\"), while the Indefinite Dyad signifies Badness. In politics, the One gives to a populace that which makes it into a unified political entity and enables it to survive, while the Indefinite Dyad leads to faction, chaos, and dissolution. In cosmology, the One is evidenced by rest, persistence, and the eternality of the world, as well as the presence of life in the cosmos and the pre-determined activity of the Demiurge Plato mentions in his \"Timaeus\". The Indefinite Dyad is in cosmology the principle of movement and change, and especially of impermanence and death. In epistemology, the One stands for philosophical knowledge that rests upon acquaintance with Plato's unchanging Forms, while the Indefinite Dyad stands for mere opinion that is dependent upon sensory impressions. In psychology or the theory of the soul, the One corresponds to Reason, and the Indefinite Dyad to the sphere of instinct and bodily affects.\n\nPositing two fundamental principles raises the question of whether the unwritten doctrines and therefore—in the case they are authentic—of whether the whole of Plato's philosophy is monistic or dualistic. A philosophical system is monistic in the case when the opposition between the One and the Indefinite Dyad is founded upon a single, more fundamental principle. This occurs if the principle of multiplicity somehow reduces to the principle of unity and is subordinated to it. An alternative, monistic interpretation of the unwritten doctrines posits a higher 'meta-One' that serves as the foundation of both principles and unites them. If the Indefinite Dyad is, however, understood as an independent principle distinct from any sort of unity, then Plato's unwritten doctrines are in the end dualistic.\n\nThe evidence in the ancient sources does not make clear how the relation between the two principles should be understood. They do, however, consistently accord the One a higher status than the Indefinite Dyad and consider only the One as absolutely transcendent. This implies a monistic interpretation of the two principles and fits with assertions in the dialogues that suggest a monistic philosophy. Plato's \"Meno\" says that everything in nature is related, and the \"Republic\" states that there is an origin \"(archḗ)\" for all things, which can be grasped by reason.\n\nThe opinions of advocates of the Tübingen interpretation are divided on this question. Most favor resolving the dispute by concluding that, although Plato indeed considered the Indefinite Dyad as the indispensable and fundamental element of our ordered world, he nonetheless posited the One as some higher, overarching principle of unity. This would make Plato a monist. This position has been defended at length by Jens Halfwassen, Detlef Thiel, and Vittorio Hösle. Halfwassen asserts it is impossible to derive the Indefinite Dyad from the One since it would thereby lose its status as a fundamental principle. Moreover, an absolute and transcendental One could not contain any sort of latent multiplicity in itself. The Indefinite Dyad, however, would therefore not have an equal origin and equal power as the One, but is nonetheless dependent upon the One. According to Halfwassen's interpretation, therefore, Plato's philosophy is in the end monistic. John Niemeyer Findlay likewise makes the case for an emphatically monistic understanding of the two principles. Cornelia de Vogel also finds the monistic aspect of the system dominant. Two leading figures of the Tübingen School, Hans Joachim Krämer und Konrad Gaiser conclude that Plato has a single system with both monistic and dualistic aspects. Christina Schefer proposes that the opposition between the principles is logically irresolvable and points to something beyond them both. According to her, the opposition stems from some fundamental, 'ineffable' intuition that Plato experienced: namely, that the god Apollo is the common ground of both the One and the Indefinite Dyad. This theory also leads therefore to a monistic conception.\n\nAccording to the prevailing view of researchers today, although the two principles are considered elements of a finally monistic system, they also have a dualistic aspect. This is not contested by defenders of the monistic interpretation but they assert the dualistic aspect is subordinated to a totality that is monistic. Its dualistic nature remains because not only the One but also the Indefinite Dyad is treated as a fundamental principle. Giovanni Reale emphasized the role of the Dyad as a fundamental origin. He thought, however, that the concept of dualism was inappropriate and spoke of a 'bipolar structure of reality.' For him, however, these two 'poles' were not equally significant: the One 'remains hierarchically superior to the Dyad.' Heinz Happ, Marie-Dominique Richard, and Paul Wilpert argued against every derivation of the Dyad from a superior principle of unity, and consequently contended that Plato's system was dualistic. They believe that Plato's originally dualistic system was later reinterpreted as a kind of monism.\n\nIf the two principles are authentically Plato's and the monistic interpretation is correct, then Plato's metaphysics strongly resembles the Neo-Platonic systems of the Roman Imperial period. In this case, the Neo-Platonic reading of Plato is, at least in this central area, historically justified. This implies that Neo-Platonism is less of an innovation than it appears without the recognition of Plato's unwritten doctrines. Advocates of the Tübingen School emphasize this advantage of their interpretation. They see Plotinus, the founder of Neo-Platonism, as advancing a tradition of thought begun by Plato himself. Plotinus's metaphysics, at least in broad outline, was therefore already familiar to the first generation of Plato's students. This confirms Plotinus' own view, for he considered himself not the inventor of a system but the faithful interpreter of Plato's doctrines.\n\nAn important research problem is the controversial question of the status of the Form of the Good within the metaphysical system derived from a combination of the Theory of Forms and the two principles of the reconstruction. The resolution of this issue depends upon how one interprets the status Plato gives to the Good in his Theory of Forms. Some believe that Plato's \"Republic\" sharply contrasts the Good and the usual Forms, and gives the Good a uniquely high rank. This accords with his conviction that all the other Forms owe their Being to the Form of the Good, and are thus ontologically subordinated to it.\n\nThe starting point of the scholarly controversy is the disputed meaning of the Greek concept of \"ousia\". This is an ordinary Greek word and literally means 'being.' In philosophical contexts, it is usually translated by 'Being' or 'Essence.' Plato's \"Republic\" says that the Good is 'not ousia' but is rather 'beyond ousia' and surpasses it as an origin and in power. If this passage implies only that the essence or nature of the Good is beyond Being (but not the Good itself), or if the passage is just interpreted loosely, then the Form of the Good can retain its place inside the realm of the Forms, i.e., the realm of things with real Being. In this case the Good is not absolutely transcendent: it does not transcend Being and somehow exist above it. The Good would therefore have a place in the hierarchy of real Beings. According to this interpretation, the Good is not an issue for the two principles of the unwritten doctrines but only for the Theory of Forms. On the other hand, if the passage in the \"Republic\" is read literally and 'ousia' means 'Being,' then the phrase 'beyond Being' implies the Good actually transcends Being. According to this interpretation, Plato considered the Good to be absolutely transcendent and it must be integrated into the realm of the two principles.\n\nIf Plato considered the Good as transcendent, there is a problem about its relation to the One. Most proponents of the authenticity of the unwritten doctrines hold that the Good and the One were for Plato identical. According to their arguments, the identity follows from the nature of Absolute Transcendence, since it brooks no determinations of any kind and therefore also no distinction between the Good and the One as two separate principles. In addition, defenders of such an identity draw on evidence in Aristotle. A contrary view, however, is held by Rafael Ferber, who accepts that the unwritten doctrines are authentic and that they are concerned with the Good but denies that the Good and the One are identical.\n\nIt can be inferred from the report of Aristoxenus about Plato's lecture 'On the Good,' that a discussion of the nature of numbers occupied an important part of Plato's argument. This theme accordingly played an important role in the unwritten doctrines. This involved, however, not mathematics but a philosophy of numbers. Plato distinguished between the numbers used in mathematics and the metaphysical Forms of numbers. In contrast to the numbers used in mathematics, the Forms of numbers do not consist of groups of units and so cannot be added together or subjected to the ordinary operations of arithmetic. The Form of Twoness, for example, does not consist of two units designated by the number 2 but rather the real essence of twoness.\n\nAccording to defenders of the unwritten doctrines, Plato gave the Forms of Numbers a middle position between the two fundamental principles and the other, ordinary Forms. Indeed, these Forms of Numbers are the first entities to emerge from the One and the Indefinite Dyad. This emergence is—as with all metaphysical production—not to be understood as the result of a temporal process but rather as an ontological dependence. For example, the interaction of the One (the determining factor) and the Dyad (the source of multiplicity) leads to the Form of Twoness in the realm of the Forms of Numbers. As the product of both principles, the Form of Twoness reflects the nature of both: it is determinate twoness. Its fixed and determinate nature is shown by its expression of the relation between the Form of Doubleness (a determinate excess) and the Form of Halfness (a determinate deficiency). The Form of Twoness is not a group of units like the numbers used in mathematics but rather a connection between two magnitudes, one of which is double the other.\n\nThe One acts as the determining factor on the Indefinite Dyad, which is called 'the Great and the Small,' and eliminates its indeterminacy, which encompasses every possible relation between largeness and smallness or between excess and deficiency. Thus the One produces determinate relations between magnitudes by making the indeterminacy of the Indefinite Dyad determinate, and just these relations are understood by advocates of the unwritten doctrines to be the Forms of Numbers. This is the origin of determinate Twoness, which can from various perspectives be seen as the Form of Doubleness or the Form of Halfness. The other Forms of Numbers are derived in the same way out of the two fundamental principles. The structure of space is implicit in the Forms of Numbers: the dimensions of space somehow emerge from their relations. Key details of this extra-temporal emergence of space are missing from the surviving ancient testimonies, and its nature is debated in the scholarly literature.\n\nPlato believed that only experts in 'dialectics,' i.e., philosophers who follow his logical methods, are competent to make statements about the highest principle. Thus he would have developed the theory of the two principles—if indeed it is his—discursively in discussions and grounded it in argument. From these discussions, it emerged that a highest principle is necessary for his system, and that the One must be inferred indirectly from its effects. Whether and to what degree Plato in addition held it possible to have direct access to the sphere of the absolute and transcendental One or indeed ever claimed such a thing is debated in the literature. This poses the question of whether the assertion of transcendental Being also entails the possibility of knowledge of that higher Being, or whether the highest principle is known theoretically but not in any more direct way.\n\nIf human understanding were restricted to discursive or verbal arguments, then Plato's dialectical discussions could at most have reached the conclusion that the highest principle was demanded by his metaphysics but also that human understanding could never arrive at that transcendental Being. If so, the only remaining way that the One might be reached (and the Good, if that is the same as the One) is through the possibility of some nonverbal, 'intuitive' access. It is debated whether or not Plato in fact took this route. If he did, he thereby renounced the possibility of justifying every step made by our knowledge with philosophical arguments that can be expressed discursively in words.\n\nAt least in regards to the One, Michael Erler concludes from a statement in the \"Republic\" that Plato held it was only intuitively knowable. In contrast, Peter Stemmer, Kurt von Fritz, Jürgen Villers, and others oppose any independent role for non-verbal intuition. Jens Halfwassen believes that knowledge of the realm of the Forms rests centrally upon direct intuition, which he understands as unmediated comprehension by some non-sensory, 'inner perception' (Ger., \"Anschauung\"). He also, however, holds that Plato's highest principle transcended knowledge and was thus inaccessible to such intuition. For Plato, the One would therefore make knowledge possible and give it the power of knowing things, but would itself remain unknowable and ineffable.\n\nChristina Schefer argues that both Plato's written and unwritten doctrines deny any and every kind of philosophical access to transcendental Being. Plato nonetheless found such access along a different path: in an ineffable, religious experience of the appearance or theophany of the god Apollo. In the center of Plato's worldview, she argues, stood neither the Theory of Forms nor the principles of the unwritten doctrines but rather the experience of Apollo, which since it was non-verbal could not have grounded any verbal doctrines. The Tübingen interpretation of Plato's principles, she continues, correctly makes them an important component of Plato's philosophy, but they lead to insoluble puzzles and paradoxes (Gk., \"aporiai\") and therefore are ultimately a dead end. It should be inferred from Plato's statements that he nonetheless found a way out, a way that leads beyond the Theory of Forms. In this interpretation, even the principles of the unwritten doctrines are to a degree merely provisional means to an end.\n\nThe scholarly literature is broadly divided on the question of whether or not Plato regarded the principles of the unwritten doctrines as \"certainly\" true. The Tübingen School attributes an epistemological optimism to Plato. This is especially emphasized by Hans Krämer. His view is that Plato himself asserted the highest possible claim to certainty for knowledge of the truth of his unwritten doctrines. He calls Plato, at least in regard to his two principles, a 'dogmatist.' Other scholars and especially Rafael Ferber uphold the opposing view that for Plato the unwritten doctrines were advanced only as a hypothesis that could be wrong. Konrad Gaiser argues that Plato formulated the unwritten doctrines as a coherent and complete philosophical system but not as a 'Summa of fixed dogmas preached in a doctrinaire way and announced as authoritative.' Instead, he continues, they were something for critical examination that could be improved: a model proposed for continuous, further development.\n\nFor Plato it is essential to bind epistemology together with ethics. He emphasizes that a student's access to insights communicated orally is possible only to those souls whose character fulfills the necessary prerequisites. The philosopher who engages in oral instruction must always ascertain whether the student has the needed character and disposition. According to Plato, knowledge is not won simply by grasping things with the intellect; instead, it is achieved as the fruit of prolonged efforts made by the entire soul. There must be an inner affinity between what is communicated and the soul receiving the communication.\n\nIt is debated when Plato held his public lecture 'On the Good.' For the advocates of the Tübingen interpretation this is connected with the question of whether the unwritten doctrines belong to Plato's later philosophy or were worked out relatively early in his career. Resolving this question depends in turn upon the long-standing debate in Plato studies between 'unitarians' and 'developmentalists.' The unitarians maintain that Plato always defended a single, coherent metaphysical system throughout his career; developmentalists distinguish several different phases in Plato's thought and hold that he was forced by problems he encountered while writing the dialogues to revise his system in significant ways.\n\nIn the older literature, the prevailing view was that Plato's lecture took place at the end of Plato's life. The origin of his unwritten doctrines was therefore assigned to the final phase of his philosophical activity. In more recent literature, an increasing number of researchers favor dating the unwritten doctrines to an earlier period. This clashes with the suppositions of the unitarians. Whether or not Plato's early dialogues allude to the unwritten dialogues is contested.\n\nThe older view that Plato's public lecture occurred late in Plato's career has been energetically denied by Hans Krämer. He argues that the lecture was held in the early period of Plato's activity as a teacher. Moreover, he says, the lecture was not given in public only once. It is more probable, he says, that there was a series of lectures and only the first introductory lecture was, as an experiment, open to a broad and unprepared audience. After the failure of this public debut, Plato drew the conclusion that his doctrines should only be shared with philosophy students. The lecture on the Good and the ensuing discussions formed part of an ongoing series of talks, in which Plato regularly over the period of several decades made his students familiar with the unwritten doctrines. He was holding these sessions already by the time of this first trip to Sicily (c. 389/388) and thus before he founded the Academy.\n\nThose historians of philosophy who date the lecture to a later time have proposed several different possible periods: between 359/355 (Karl-Heinz Ilting), between 360/358 (Hermann Schmitz), around 352 (Detlef Thiel), and the time between the death of Dion(354) and Plato's own death (348/347: Konrad Gaiser). Gaiser emphasizes that the late date of the lecture does not entail that the unwritten doctrines were a late development. He rather finds that these doctrines were from early on a part of the Academy's curriculum, probably as early as the founding of the school.\n\nIt is unclear why Plato presented such demanding material as the unwritten doctrines to a public not yet educated in philosophy and was thereby met—as could not be otherwise—with incomprehension. Gaiser supposes that he opened the lectures to the public in order to confront distorted reports of the unwritten doctrines and thereby to deflate the circulating rumors that the Academy was a hive of subversive activity.\n\nAmong the first generations of Plato's students, there was a living memory of Plato's oral teaching, which was written up by many of them and influenced the literature of the period (much of which no longer survives today). The unwritten doctrines were vigorously criticized by Aristotle, who examined them in two treatises named 'On the Good' and 'On Philosophy' (of which we have only a few fragments) and in other works such as his \"Metaphysics\" and \"Physics.\" Aristotle's student Theophrastus also discussed them in his \"Metaphysics.\"\nIn the following Hellenistic Period (323–31 BCE) when a thorough-going skepticism came to dominate the Academy, the inheritance of Plato's unwritten doctrines could attract little interest (if they were known at all). This skepticism faded by the time of Middle Platonism and Neo-Platonism, but the philosophers of this period seem no better informed about the unwritten doctrines than modern scholars.\n\nAfter the rediscovery in the Renaissance of the original text of Plato's dialogues (which had been lost in the Middle Ages), the early modern period was dominated by an image of Plato's metaphysics influenced by a combination of Neo-Platonism and Aristotle's reports of the basics of the unwritten doctrines. The Humanist Marsilio Ficino (1433–1499) and his Neo-Platonic interpretation decisively contributed to the prevailing view with his translations and commentaries. Later, the influential popularizer, writer, and Plato translator Thomas Taylor (1758–1835) reinforced this Neo-Platonic tradition of Plato interpretation. The Eighteenth century increasingly saw the Neo-Platonic paradigm as problematic but was unable to replace it with a consistent alternative. The unwritten doctrines were still accepted in this period. The German philosopher Wilhelm Gottlieb Tennemann proposed in his 1792–95 \"System of Plato's Philosophy\" that Plato had never intended that his philosophy should be entirely represented in written form.\n\nIn the nineteenth century a scholarly debate began that continues to this day over the question of whether unwritten doctrines must be considered and over whether they constitute a philosophical inheritance that adds something new to the dialogues.\n\nThe Neo-Platonic interpretation of Plato prevailed until the beginning the nineteenth century when in 1804 Friedrich Schleiermacher published an introduction to his 1804 translation of Plato's dialogues and initiated a radical turn whose consequences are still felt today. Schleiermacher was convinced that the entire content of Plato's philosophy was contained in his dialogues. There never was, he insisted, any oral teaching that went beyond them. According to his conception, the genre of the dialogue is no literary replacement for Plato's philosophy, rather the literary form of the dialogue and the content of Plato's philosophy are inseparably bound together: Plato's way of philosophizing can by its nature only be represented as a literary dialogue. Therefore, unwritten doctrines with any philosophically relevant, special content that are not bound together into a literary dialogue must be excluded.\n\nSchleiermacher's conception was rapidly and widely accepted and became the standard view. Its many advocates include Eduard Zeller, a leading historian of philosophy in the nineteenth century, whose influential handbook \"The Philosophy of the Greeks and its Historical Development\" militated against 'supposed secret doctrines' and had lasting effects on the reception of Plato's works.\n\nSchleiermacher's stark denial of any oral teaching was disputed from the beginning but his critics remained isolated. In 1808, August Boeckh, who later became a well-known Greek scholar, stated in an edition of Schleiermacher's Plato translations that he did not find the arguments against the unwritten doctrines persuasive. There was a great probability, he said, that Plato had an esoteric teaching never overtly expressed but only darkly hinted at: 'what he here [in the dialogues] did not carry out to the final point, he there in oral instruction placed the topmost capstone on.' Christian August Brandis collected and commented upon the ancient sources for the unwritten doctrines. Friedrich Adolf Trendelenburg and Christian Hermann Weisse stressed the significance of the unwritten doctrines in their investigations. Even Karl Friedrich Hermann, in an 1849 inquiry into Plato's literary motivations, turned against Schleiermacher's theses and proposed that Plato had only insinuated the deeper core of his philosophy in his writings and directly communicated it only orally.\n\n\nUntil the second half of the twentieth century, the 'antiesoteric' approach in Plato studies was clearly dominant. However, some researchers before the midpoint of the century did assert Plato had an oral teaching. These included John Burnet, Julius Stenzel, Alfred Edward Taylor, Léon Robin, Paul Wilpert, and Heinrich Gomperz. Since 1959, the fully worked out interpretation of the Tübingen School has carried on an intense rivalry with the anti-esoteric approach.\n\nIn the twentieth century, the most prolific defender of the anti-esoteric approach was Harold Cherniss. He expounded his views already in 1942, that is, before the investigations and publications of the Tübingen School. His main concern was to undermine the credibility of Aristotle's evidence for the unwritten doctrines, which he attributed to Aristotle's dismissive hostility towards Plato's theories as well as certain misunderstandings. Cherniss believed that Aristotle, in the course of his polemics, had falsified Plato's views and that Aristotle had even contradicted himself. Cherniss flatly denied that any oral teaching of Plato had extra content over and above the dialogues. Modern hypotheses about philosophical instruction in the Academy were, he said, groundless speculation. There was, moreover, a fundamental contradiction between the Theory of Forms found in the dialogues and Aristotle's reports. Cherniss insisted that Plato had consistently championed the Theory of Forms and that there was no plausible argument for the assumption that he modified it according to the supposed principles of the unwritten doctrines. The \"Seventh Letter\" was irrelevant since it was, Cherniss held, inauthentic.\n\nIn the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries, a radicalization of Schleiermacher's dialogical approach arose. Numerous scholars urged an 'anti-systematic' interpretation of Plato that is also known as 'dialogue theory.' This approach condemns every kind of 'dogmatic' Plato interpretation and especially the possibility of esoteric, unwritten doctrines. It is fundamentally opposed to the proposition that Plato possessed a definite, systematic teaching and asserted its truth. The proponents of this anti-systematic approach at least agree that the essence of Plato's way of doing philosophy is not the establishment of individual doctrines but rather shared, 'dialogical' reflection and in particular the testing of various methods of inquiry. This style of philosophy—as Schleiermacher already stressed – is characterized by a \"process\" of investigation (rather than its results) that aims to stimulate further and deeper thoughts in his readers. It does not seek to fix the truth of final dogmas, but encourages a never-ending series of questions and answers. This far-reaching development of Schleiermacher's theory of the dialogue at last even turned against him: he was roundly criticized for wrongly seeking a systematic philosophy in the dialogues.\n\nThe advocates of this anti-systematic interpretation do not see a contradiction between Plato's criticism of writing and the notion that he communicated his entire philosophy to the public in writing. They believe his criticism was aimed only at the kind of writing that expresses dogmas and doctrines. Since the dialogues are not like this but instead present their material in the guise of fictional conversations, Plato's criticism does not apply.\n\nUntil the 1950s, the question of whether one could in fact infer the existence of unwritten doctrines from the ancient sources stood at the center of the discussion. After the Tübingen School introduced its new paradigm, a vigorous controversy arose and debate shifted to the new question of whether the Tübingen Hypothesis was correct: that the unwritten doctrines could actually be reconstructed and contained the core of Plato's philosophy.\n\nThe Tübingen paradigm was formulated and thoroughly defended for the first time by Hans Joachim Krämer. He published the results of his research in a 1959 monograph that was a revised version of a 1957 dissertation written under the supervision of Wolfgang Schadewaldt. In 1963, Konrad Gaiser, who was also a student of Schadewaldt, qualified as a professor with his comprehensive monograph on the unwritten doctrines. In the following decades both these scholars expanded on and defended the new paradigm in a series of publications while teaching at Tübingen University.\n\nFurther well-known proponents of the Tübingen paradigm include Thomas Alexander Szlezák, who also taught at Tübingen from 1990 to 2006 and worked especially on Plato's criticism of writing, the historian of philosophy Jens Halfwassen, who taught at Heidelberg and especially investigated the history of Plato's two principles from the fourth century BCE through Neo-Platonism, and Vittorio Hösle, who teaches at the University of Notre Dame (USA).\n\nSupporters of the Tübinger approach to Plato include, for example, Michael Erler, Jürgen Wippern, Karl Albert, Heinz Happ, Willy Theiler, Klaus Oehler, Hermann Steinthal, John Niemeyer Findlay, Marie-Dominique Richard, Herwig Görgemanns, Walter Eder, Josef Seifert, Joachim Söder, Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker, Detlef Thiel, and—with a new and far-reaching theory—Christina Schefer.\nThose who partially agree with the Tübingen approach but have reservations include Cornelia J. de Vogel, Rafael Ferber, John M. Dillon, Jürgen Villers, Christopher Gill, Enrico Berti, and Hans-Georg Gadamer.\n\nSince the important research of Giovanni Reale, an Italian historian of philosophy who extended the Tübingen paradigm in new directions, it is today also called the 'Tübingen and Milanese School.' In Italy, Maurizio Migliori and Giancarlo Movia have also spoken out for the authenticity of the unwritten doctrines. Recently, Patrizia Bonagura, a student of Reale, has strongly defended the Tübingen approach.\n\nVarious, skeptical positions have found support, especially in Anglo-American scholarship but also among German-speaking scholars. These critics include: in the USA, Gregory Vlastos and Reginald E. Allen; in Italy, Franco Trabattoni and Francesco Fronterotta; in France, Luc Brisson; and in Sweden, E. N. Tigerstedt. German-speaking critics include: Theodor Ebert, Ernst Heitsch, Fritz-Peter Hager and Günther Patzig.\n\nThe radical, skeptical position holds that Plato did not teach anything orally that was not already in the dialogues.\n\nModerate skeptics accept there were some kind of unwritten doctrines but criticize the Tübingen reconstruction as speculative, insufficiently grounded in evidence, and too far-reaching. Many critics of the Tübingen School do not dispute the authenticity of the principles ascribed to Plato, but see them as a late notion of Plato's that was never worked out systematically and so was not integrated with the philosophy he developed beforehand. They maintain that the two principles theory was not the core of Plato's philosophy but rather a tentative concept discussed in the last phase of his philosophical activity. He introduced these concepts as a hypothesis but did not integrate them with the metaphysics that underlies the dialogues.\n\nProponents of this moderate view include Dorothea Frede, Karl-Heinz Ilting, and Holger Thesleff. Similarly, Andreas Graeser judges the unwritten principles to be a 'contribution to a discussion with student interns' and Jürgen Mittelstraß takes them to be 'a cautious question to which a hypothetical response is suggested.' Rafael Ferber believes that Plato never committed the principles to a fixed, written form because, among other things, he did not regard them as knowledge but as mere opinion. Margherita Isnardi Parente does not dispute the possibility of unwritten doctrines but judges the tradition of reports about them to be unreliable and holds it impossible to unite the Tübingen reconstruction with the philosophy of the dialogues, in which the authentic views of Plato are to be found. The reports of Aristotle do not derive from Plato himself but rather from efforts aimed at systematizing his thought by members of the early Academy. Franco Ferrari also denies that this systematization should be ascribed to Plato. Wolfgang Kullmann accepts the authenticity of the two principles but sees a fundamental contradiction between them and the philosophy of the dialogues. Wolfgang Wieland accepts the reconstruction of the unwritten dialogues but rates its philosophical relevance very low and thinks it cannot be the core of Plato's philosophy. Franz von Kutschera maintains that the existence of the unwritten doctrines cannot be seriously questioned but finds that the tradition of reports about them are of such low quality that any attempts at reconstruction must rely on the dialogues. Domenico Pesce affirms the existence of unwritten doctrines and that they concerned the Good but condemns the Tübingen reconstruction and in particular the claim that Plato's metaphysics was bipolar.\n\nThere is a striking secondary aspect apparent in the sometimes sharp and vigorous controversies over the Tübingen School: the antagonists on both sides have tended to argue from within a presupposed worldview. Konrad Gaiser remarked about this aspect of the debate: 'In this controversy, and probably on both sides, certain modern conceptions of what philosophy should be play an unconscious role and for this reason there is little hope of a resolution.'\n\n\n\n\nOverviews\nInvestigations\n\n"}
{"id": "14764284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14764284", "title": "Regular modal logic", "text": "Regular modal logic\n\nIn modal logic, a regular modal logic L is a modal logic closed under the duality of the modal operators:\n\nformula_1\n\nand the rule\n\nformula_2\n\nEvery regular modal logic is classical, and every normal modal logic is regular and hence classical.\n\n"}
{"id": "38499142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38499142", "title": "Ricardo Forster", "text": "Ricardo Forster\n\nRicardo Forster (born 26 September 1957) is an Argentine philosopher, historian of ideas and political critic\n\nHe is professor and researcher at Universidad de Buenos Aires and University of Maryland. He is also member of the editorial board of \"Pensamiento de los Confines\" magazine. Along with Horacio Verbitsky, Nicolás Casullo and others created Espacio Carta Abierta (\"Open Letter Spot\"), a propagandistic group in defense of the Kirchner government, in 2008, after an attempt to raise taxes on agricultural exports led to large street protests.\n\nHe also had a small incursion in television as presenter of \"Grandes pensadores del siglo XX\" (\"Greatest thinkers of 20th-century\") in Encuentro, in years 2009–2010.\n\nIn 2013, he ran for National Deputy representing the city of Buenos Aires. He was fourth on the list of the government-backed Party for Victory (Frente para la Victoria) party. The party came in third place with less than 22% of the vote and Forster did not get elected to Congress.\n\nIn June 2014, the position of \"Secretary of Strategic Coordination of National Thought\" was created by the Kirchner administration and Forster was named its first office holder. The Secretary was given the task to \"design, coordinate and instrument a factory of National Thought\" and its creation and Forster's naming were criticised by the opposition but applauded by Carta Abierta.\n\nForster is also an essayist and writer. In his works he develops his thinking on diverse subjects, which include political philosophy, nihilism, the entire concept of essay (topic of his doctoral dissertation), and social sciences in general.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34351960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34351960", "title": "Right to withdraw", "text": "Right to withdraw\n\nThe right to withdraw is a concept in clinical research ethics that a study participant in a clinical trial has a right to end participation in that trial at will. According to ICH GCP guidelines, a person can withdraw from research at any point of time and it is no binding of participant to reveal the reason of discontinuation.\n\nWhen children participate in clinical research their parents or guardians must give assent for them to participate, but ethics dictate that even in this case it is best to get the consent of the research subject. Studies have shown that children participating in research have little understanding of the right to withdraw when they are presented with the option.\n\nWithdrawal from participating in biobank research is problematic for many reasons, including the fact that participant's data is often de-identified to grant research participant privacy.\n"}
{"id": "26275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26275", "title": "Robert Nozick", "text": "Robert Nozick\n\nRobert Nozick (; November 16, 1938 – January 23, 2002) was an American philosopher. He held the Joseph Pellegrino University Professorship at Harvard University, and was president of the American Philosophical Association. He is best known for his books \"Philosophical Explanations\" (1981), which included his counterfactual theory of knowledge, and \"Anarchy, State, and Utopia\" (1974), a libertarian answer to John Rawls' \"A Theory of Justice\" (1971), in which Nozick also presented his own theory of utopia as one in which people can freely choose the rules of the society they enter into. His other work involved ethics, decision theory, philosophy of mind, metaphysics and epistemology. His final work before his death, \"Invariances\" (2001), introduced his theory of evolutionary cosmology, by which he argues invariances, and hence objectivity itself, emerged through a theory of evolutionary cosmology across possible worlds.\n\nNozick was born in Brooklyn to a family of Kohenic descent. His mother was born Sophie Cohen, and his father was a Jew from the Russian shtetl who had been born with the name Cohen and who ran a small business.\n\nHe attended the public schools in Brooklyn. At one point he joined the youth branch of Norman Thomas's Socialist Party. In addition, at Columbia he founded the local chapter of the Student League for Industrial Democracy, which in 1962 changed its name to Students for a Democratic Society.\n\nThat same year, after receiving his bachelor of arts degree in 1959, he married Barbara Fierer. They had two children, Emily and David. The Nozicks eventually divorced and he remarried, to the poet Gjertrud Schnackenberg. Nozick died in 2002 after a prolonged struggle with stomach cancer. He was interred at Mount Auburn Cemetery in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\nNozick was educated at Columbia (A.B. 1959, \"summa cum laude\"), where he studied with Sidney Morgenbesser, and later at Princeton (Ph.D. 1963) under Carl Hempel, and at Oxford as a Fulbright Scholar (1963–1964).\n\nFor \"Anarchy, State, and Utopia\" (1974) Nozick received a National Book Award in category Philosophy and Religion.\nThere, Nozick argues that only a minimal state limited to the narrow functions of protection against \"force, fraud, theft, and administering courts of law\" could be justified without violating people's rights. For Nozick, a distribution of goods is just if brought about by free exchange among consenting adults from a \"just\" starting position, even if large inequalities subsequently emerge from the process. Nozick appealed to the Kantian idea that people should be treated as ends (what he termed 'separateness of persons'), not merely as a means to some other end.\n\nNozick challenged the partial conclusion of John Rawls' Second Principle of Justice of his \"A Theory of Justice\", that \"social and economic inequalities are to be arranged so that they are to be of greatest benefit to the least-advantaged members of society.\" \"Anarchy, State, and Utopia\" claims a heritage from John Locke's \"Second Treatise on Government\" and seeks to ground itself upon a natural law doctrine, but reaches some importantly different conclusions from Locke himself in several ways.\n\nMost controversially, Nozick argued that a consistent upholding of the non-aggression principle would allow and regard as valid consensual or non-coercive enslavement contracts between adults. He rejected the notion of inalienable rights advanced by Locke and most contemporary capitalist-oriented libertarian academics, writing in \"Anarchy, State, and Utopia\" that the typical notion of a \"free system\" would allow adults to voluntarily enter into non-coercive slave contracts.\n\nIn \"Philosophical Explanations\" (1981), which received the Phi Beta Kappa Society's Ralph Waldo Emerson Award, Nozick provided novel accounts of knowledge, free will, personal identity, the nature of value, and the meaning of life. He also put forward an epistemological system which attempted to deal with both the Gettier problem and those posed by skepticism. This highly influential argument eschewed justification as a necessary requirement for knowledge.\n\nNozick's four conditions for S's knowing that P were:\n\n\nNozick's third and fourth conditions are counterfactuals. He called this the \"tracking theory\" of knowledge. Nozick believed the counterfactual conditionals bring out an important aspect of our intuitive grasp of knowledge: For any given fact, the believer's method must reliably track the truth despite varying relevant conditions. In this way, Nozick's theory is similar to reliabilism. Due to certain counterexamples that could otherwise be raised against these counterfactual conditions, Nozick specified that:\n\nWhere M stands for the method by which S came to arrive at a belief whether or not P.\n\nA major criticism of Nozick's theory of knowledge is his rejection of the principle of deductive closure. This principle states that if S knows X and S knows that X implies Y, then S knows Y. Nozick's truth tracking conditions do not allow for the principle of deductive closure. Nozick believes that the truth tracking conditions are more fundamental to human intuition than the principle of deductive closure.\n\n\"The Examined Life\" (1989), pitched to a broader public, explores love, death, faith, reality, and the meaning of life. According to Stephen Metcalf, Nozick expresses serious misgivings about capitalist libertarianism, going so far as to reject much of the foundations of the theory on the grounds that personal freedom can sometimes only be fully actualized via a collectivist politics and that wealth is at times justly redistributed via taxation to protect the freedom of the many from the potential tyranny of an overly selfish and powerful few. Nozick suggests that citizens who are opposed to wealth redistribution which fund programs they object to, should be able to opt out by supporting alternative government approved charities with an added 5% surcharge.\n\nHowever, Jeff Riggenbach has noted that in an interview conducted in July 2001, he stated that he had never stopped self-identifying as a libertarian. Roderick Long reported that in his last book, \"Invariances\", [Nozick] identified voluntary cooperation as the 'core principle' of ethics, maintaining that the duty not to interfere with another person's 'domain of choice' is '[a]ll that any society should (coercively) demand'; higher levels of ethics, involving positive benevolence, represent instead a 'personal ideal' that should be left to 'a person's own individual choice and development.' And that certainly sounds like an attempt to embrace libertarianism all over again. My own view is that Nozick's thinking about these matters evolved over time and that what he wrote at any given time was an accurate reflection of what he was thinking at that time.\" Furthermore, Julian Sanchez reported that \"Nozick \"always\" thought of himself as a libertarian in a broad sense, right up to his final days, even as his views became somewhat less 'hardcore.'\"\n\n\"The Nature of Rationality\" (1993) presents a theory of practical reason that attempts to embellish notoriously spartan classical decision theory.\n\n\"Socratic Puzzles\" (1997) is a collection of papers that range in topic from Ayn Rand and Austrian economics to animal rights. A thesis claims that \"social ties are deeply interconnected with vital parts of Nozick's later philosophy\", citing these two works as a development of \"The Examined Life\".\n\nHis last production, \"Invariances\" (2001), applies insights from physics and biology to questions of objectivity in such areas as the nature of necessity and moral value.\n\nNozick created the thought experiment of the \"utility monster\" to show that average utilitarianism could lead to a situation where the needs of the vast majority were sacrificed for one individual. He also wrote a version of what was essentially a previously-known thought experiment, the experience machine, in an attempt to show that ethical hedonism was false. Nozick asked us to imagine that \"superduper neuropsychologists\" have figured out a way to stimulate a person's brain to induce pleasurable experiences. We would not be able to tell that these experiences were not real. He asks us, if we were given the choice, would we choose a machine-induced experience of a wonderful life over real life? Nozick says no, then asks whether we have reasons not to plug into the machine and concludes that since it does not seem to be rational to plug in, ethical hedonism must be false.\n\nNozick was notable for the exploratory style of his philosophizing and for his methodological ecumenism. Often content to raise tantalizing philosophical possibilities and then leave judgment to the reader, Nozick was also notable for drawing from literature outside of philosophy (e.g., economics, physics, evolutionary biology).\n\nIn his 2001 work, \"Invariances\", Nozick introduces his theory of truth, in which he leans towards a deflationary theory of truth, but argues that objectivity arises through being invariant under various transformations. For instance, space-time is a significant objective fact because an interval involving both temporal and spatial separation is invariant, whereas no simpler interval involving only temporal or only spatial separation is invariant under Lorentz transformations. Nozick argues that invariances, and hence objectivity itself, emerged through a theory of evolutionary cosmology across possible worlds.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4927199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4927199", "title": "Sandhyavandanam", "text": "Sandhyavandanam\n\nSandhyavandana (Sanskrit: , ') is a mandatory religious ritual performed, traditionally, by \"Dvija\" communities of Hindus , particularly those initiated through the sacred thread ceremony referred to as the Upanayanam and instructed in its execution by a \"Guru\", in this case one qualified to teach Vedic ritual. The Sandhyāvandanam consists of recitation from the Vedas, accompanied by ritual. These rituals are performed three times a day - at morning ('), noon (') and evening (').\n\nThe Sandhyavandanam is the oldest extant liturgy in world religion. As a practice, it may be descended from the much older daily Agnihotra ritual.\n\nSandhyavandanam literally means \"salutation to Sandhya\". Sandhya, in turn, has traditionally been interpreted either as \"the transition moments of the day\" (namely the two twilights dawn and dusk), or as \"the solar noon\". Thus, Sandhyavandanam may be defined as the ritual \"salutation to twilight or the solar noon\".\nThe term ', when used by itself in the sense of \"daily practice\", may also refer to the performance of these rituals at the opening and closing of the day.\nThe steps in the Sandhyavandan always include the following essential components:\n\nIn addition to the above Vedic components of the Sandhyavandanam, many include the following Tantric component:\n\nThe steps in the Rigveda Sandhyavandan are twenty-eight in number. The emerging need to perform the Sandhyaavandanam daily is supposedly increasing .\n\nPoorvaangam\nMeaning of Mantra - \nPranava - Om means eeswarah (implying that God is everything). \nVyahrithihi) - Bhu, bhuvaha etc. refer to 7 upper lokas (other 7 lower lokas are implied) are all God.\nGayatri - Simple meaning - I meditate upon the light of the sun which activates our intelligent)\nGayatri shiras (again says that God is everything - All waters (aapo), lights (jyothi), essences/nourishment(raso), God's nourishment (amrutham) is God). \n\nSri Thillasthanam Swamy Kainkarya Sabha , Bangalore in order to promote Sandhyavandanam have brought out a book on Sandhyāvandanaṃ modelled as a Guide and self instructor bringing out significance and importance and also scientific basis for the same . Book has all the procedures and hymns in Devanāgari , Tamil and Kannaḍa scripts and the meanings of each hymn and explanations in English for better appreciation . For more details please visit the sabha website http://www.thillasthanam-swamy-sabha.in\n\nChanting of the Gayatri mantra, traditionally, is done 21, 32, 64 or 108 times (it depends on the person doing sandhyavandana; he can chant any number of times. \"YathaSakti Gayatri mantra japam karishye\" was the sankalpam in Sandhya vandana), depending upon the prescriptions of the practitioner's Veda and Sutra, an integral part of Sandhyavandanam. In addition to the mantra, the ritual of ' includes other rites that are purifying and preparatory (Sanskrit: ' mantras), serving to prevent distracting thoughts and bring focus to the mind. Some of these are propitiatory libations of water to the Gods of the planets and of the months of the Hindu calendar, atoning for Sandhyavandanams not performed and atoning for sins committed since the last hour of Sandhya. In addition, one of the most important rituals of Sandhyavandanam involves worshiping the Sun as Mitra in the morning and worshiping Varuna, in the evening. For Gayatri Japam morning is 21,64 or 108 times, afternoon 32 times and evening is 21,64 or 108 times.\n\nEach Shakha of the holy Veda has its own unique way of sandhyavandanam. Shatatapa Smriti says a Dwija who doesn't do sandhyavandanam at least once will be a dog in the next birth. During Ashoucham (during death of any relative or birth of a child) sandhyavandanam is done without water and Darbham (Kusha grass). On Trayodashi, during sayam sandhya minimum gayatri japam and silence is prescribed by some vedik scholars. There are few additional mantras in Navagraha Kesavathi Tarpana for Bodhayana Sutra. They include Yama mantras, in addition to Navagraha Kesavathi mantras.\n\nDoing Sandhya-vandana first creates the eligibility for a brahmin to do all rituals following it. Rituals done without doing sandhya-vandanam are regarded as fruitless by Dharmaśāstra. Thus, sandhyavandanam forms the basis or regarded as the foundation for all other vedic rituals. After doing Sandhyavandanam ( mādhyāhnika-sandhyā ) to get rid off sins occurred due preparation of lunch like boiling rice,cutting vegetables, burning firewood etc. In Vaishvadeva homa rice cakes are offered to vishvadevas (all devatas).\n\nOther aspects of the ritual, though, speaking strictly, not included in Sandhyavandanam, may include meditation, chanting of other mantras (Sanskrit: \"japa\"), and devotional practices specifically for divinities that are preferred by the practitioner. Regarding the connection with meditation practices, Monier-Williams notes that if regarded as an act of meditation, the ' may be connected with the etymology '.\n\nDepending on the beliefs — Smartha, Sri Vaishnava, Madhva — these mantras or procedures have slight changes, while the main mantras like mārjanaṃ (sprinkling of water), prāśanaṃ (drinking water), punar-mārjanaṃ and arghya-pradānaṃ remain the same in 95% of the cases. Smārtas (Advaitins) have aikyānu-Sandhānam, where they (Yajur Vedins) recite the verse from bṛhadāraṇyaka Upanishad ( brahmair vāhaṃ asmi ).Sivaprasad Bhattacharya defines it as the \"Hindu code of liturgical prayers.\"\n\n\n Rigved Steps\n\n"}
{"id": "162612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162612", "title": "Sari Nusseibeh", "text": "Sari Nusseibeh\n\nSari Nusseibeh () (born in 1949) is a Palestinian Professor of Philosophy and former President of the Al-Quds University in Jerusalem. Until December 2002 he was the representative of the Palestinian National Authority in that city. In 2008, in an open online poll, Nusseibeh was voted the 24th most influential intellectual in the world on the list of Top 100 Public Intellectuals by \"Prospect Magazine\" (UK) and \"Foreign Policy\" (United States). He lives with his family in Beit Hanina.\n\nThe Nusseibeh boast of a 1,300 year presence in Jerusalem, being descended from Ubayda ibn as-Samit, the brother of Nusaybah bint Ka'ab, a female warrior from the Banu Khazraj of Arabia, and one of the four women leaders of the 14 tribes of early Islam. Ubadya, a companion of Umar ibn al-Khattab, was appointed the first Muslim high judge of Jerusalem after its conquest in 638 C.E., together with an obligation to keep the Holy Rock of Calvary clean. Despite the noble origins, family tradition, in keeping with the belief that all great families have roots in brigandage, transmits a legend that their descent can also be traced through a long line of thieves.\n\nAccording to family tradition, they retained an exclusive right to the keys of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre down to the Ottoman period, when the Joudeh family obtained a warrant to share possession. To this day, the Nusseibeh family are said to be trustees, and upon receiving the keys from a member of the Joudeh clan, the Nusseibeh are said to turn them over to the warden of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre around dawn every day.Moshe Amirav reports Nusseibeh as quipping, nonetheless, when replying in the negative to a query about his family’s possession of the keys, that:'No, there is no longer any need for it. Jesus isn’t there any more.'\n\nNusseibeh's grandfather successively married into three different Palestinian families of notables, the Shihabi, noted for their scholarship; the Darwish of the powerful al-Husayni clan; and to the Nashashibi, and thus, in Nusseibeh's words: 'in a matter of a few years [...] managed to stitch together four ancient Jerusalem families, two of which were bitter rivals'.\n\nNusseibeh was born in Damascus, Syria, to the politician Anwar Nusseibeh who was a distinguished statesman, prominent in Palestinian and (after 1948) Palestinian-Jordanian politics and diplomacy. His mother, Nuzha Al-Ghussein, daughter of Palestinian political leader Yaqub al-Ghusayn was born in Ramle, into a family of wealthy landed aristocrats with land in Wadi Hnein (now the Israeli town of Nes Ziona), His mother had left Palestine in 1948 to avoid the fighting, and his father lost a leg when wounded while participating in the 1947–48 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine. They moved to Cairo some years later, where his father participated in the formation of the First Palestine Government in exile. On returning to Jerusalem, he lived just a few hundred yards over the other side of No man's land from Amos Oz, and in reading the latter’s memoir of his upbringing, was struck by the profound differences between their respective experiences as children in the same city. Their family owned farmland in Karameh which he helped till by driving a tractor during summer vacations. It was to be the site of what in Palestinian memory became known as the bloodbath of their Palestinian Stalingrad. During Israel's conquest of the West Bank in the Six-Day War, Israel troops sacked the family home in Jerusalem, looting it of all of their heirlooms, though the family car was later returned. Some months later, the occupation authorities then expropriated the family's 200 acre country estate in the Jordan Valley.\n\nIn the fall of 1967, Nusseibeh went to study philosophy at Christ Church, Oxford. There he became friends with Avishai Margalit, as well as Ahmad Walidi, the only other Palestinian undergraduate there at the time, and son of the distinguished scholar Walid Khalidi. It was a period marked by student revolutionary upheavals and it was at this time that Ahmad introduced him to the intricacies of Palestinian political factions, parodied in Monty Python's The Life of Brian. The summers he spent back in Jerusalem, where, in 1968 he began studying Hebrew did a stint of work at the HaZore'a kibbutz, and, the following year, was on hand to help quench the flames caused by Australian Christian fundamentalist arsonist Michael Rohan when the latter tried to burn down the Al-Aqsa Mosque by setting alight Saladin's 1,000 year old Aleppo pulpit.\nAt Oxford, Nusseibeh met Lucy Austin, the daughter of British philosopher J.L. Austin, and future founder of the NGO MEND. They were married in late 1973 by the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem, Sheikh Saad al-Din Jalal al-Alami, and their marriage gave them four children: three sons, Jamal, Absal, Buraq, and one daughter, Nuzha. While at Oxford Sari was much drawn to the linguistic philosophy introduced by Ludwig Wittgenstein and developed by Austin. After completing his Oxford degree, he spent a year at the Warburg Institute in London, after hearing a lecture by Abdulhamid Sabra which attracted him to the study of the early Islamic school of Mu'tazilite logicians, the thought of Al-Ghazali and the subsequent discursive victory of the latter, as formulated by the Ash'ari school of theologians.\nAfter a brief period working in Abu Dhabi, Nusseibeh took up doctoral studies on the topic of Islamic Philosophy at from Harvard University, beginning in the fall of 1974, and gained his Ph.D. in (1978).\nHe returned to the West Bank in 1978 to teach at Birzeit University (where he remained as Professor of Philosophy until the University was closed from 1988 to 1990 during the First Intifada). At the same time, he taught classes in Islamic philosophy at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, Israel. Through the early 1980s, he helped to organize the teachers' union at Birzeit, and served three terms as president of the union of faculty and staff there. Nusseibeh is also co-founder of the Federation of Employees in the Education Sector for all of the West Bank.\n\nSari Nusseibeh has long been viewed as a Palestinian moderate. In July 1987, Nusseibeh and Faisal Husseini met with Moshe Amirav, a member of Israel's Likud Party becoming the first prominent Palestinians to meet with a member of the Israeli right. Amirav was testing the waters for a group close to then prime minister Yitzhak Shamir on the possibility of making a historic pact with the PLO and Fatah.\n\nAfter years of working toward the establishment of a functioning Palestinian state alongside the state of Israel, Nusseibeh was by 2011 referring to the two-state solution as a \"fantasy\". In \"What's A Palestinian State Worth?\" (Harvard University Press, 2011) he called for a \"thought experiment\" of a single state in which Israel annexed all the territories, and Palestinians would be \"second-class citizens\" with \"civil but not political rights\" in which \"Jews could run the country while the Arabs could live in it.\" This specific suggestion has been dismissed as \"disingenuous\". During this time, Nusseibeh has been speaking of steps toward one version or another of a single-state solution, such as a binational state.\n\nNusseibeh was also an important leader during the First Intifada, authoring the Palestinian Declaration of Principles and working to strengthen the Fatah movement in the West Bank; Nusseibeh helped to author the \"inside\" Palestinians' declaration of independence issued in the First Intifada, and to create the 200 political committees and 28 technical committees that were intended to as an embryonic infrastructure for a future Palestinian administration.\n\nFollowing the firing of Scud missiles at Tel Aviv, Nusseibeh worked with Israeli Peace Now on a common approach to condemn the killing of civilians in the war. But he was arrested and placed under administrative detention on 29 January 1991, effectively accused of being an Iraqi agent. The arrest was then questioned by British and American officials, and the U.S. administration urged that he should either be charged or else the suspicion would be that the arrest was political. He was adopted as a prisoner of conscience by Amnesty International. and letters of protest were written to The Times by such luminaries as Peter Strawson, Isaiah Berlin and H. L. A. Hart. Some Israelis said the move was designed to discredit Nusseibeh before international opinion. Palestinians saw the arrest as a political warning that Israel did not intend to negotiate with any Palestinian leader, no matter how moderate. For example, Saeb Erekat of An-Najah University said: \"This is a message to us Palestinian moderates. The message is, 'You can forget about negotiations after the war because we are going to make sure there is no one to talk to'\". He was released without charge shortly after the end of the war, after 90 days of imprisonment in Ramle Prison.\n\nNusseibeh was not politically active during much of the Oslo Peace Process but was appointed as the PLO Representative in Jerusalem in 2001. During this period Nusseibeh began to strongly suggest that Palestinians give up their Right of Return in exchange for a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. A number of Palestinian organizations have strongly condemned his views on this issue.\n\nNusseibeh criticised the militarization of the intifada in January 2002 and called for the renunciation of suicide bombings and the establishment of Palestine as a demilitarized state: \"A Palestinian state should be demilitarized—not because that's what Israel demands, but in our own interest.\" Some senior Israel figures, such as Uzi Landau rebuffed the proposal as a trick.\n\nIn 2002 Sari Nusseibeh and former Shin Bet director, Ami Ayalon published The People's Voice, an Israeli-Palestinian civil initiative that aims to advance the process of achieving peace between Israel and the Palestinians, and a draft peace agreement that called for a Palestinian state based on Israel's 1967 borders and for a compromise on the Palestinian Right of Return. The People's Voice Initiative was officially launched on June 25, 2003.\n\nIn 2002, Yasser Arafat appointed Nusseibeh as the PLO's representative in East Jerusalem, a position he assumed after the sudden death of Faisal Husseini.\n\nIn 2008, Nusseibeh said that the quest for the two-state solution was floundering. He called on Palestinians to start a debate on the idea of a one-state solution.\n\nNusseibeh is head and founder of the \"Palestinian Consultancy Group\", co-founder and member of several Palestinian institutions including the \"Jerusalem Friends of the Sick Society\", the \"Federation of Employees in the Education Sector in the West Bank\", the \"Arab Council for Public Affairs\", the \"Committee Confronting the Iron Fist\", and the \"Jerusalem Arab Council\". He is also on the advisory board of The International Center for Ethics, Justice and Public Life at Brandeis University.\n\nInternationally, Nusseibeh is a member of the McGill Middle East Program's Executive and Management Committees. In November 2007, following the publication of \"Once Upon a Country: A Palestinian Life\", he traveled to Montreal, Canada, to lecture on the MMEP and his vision of peace.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3636398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3636398", "title": "Sholom Gherman", "text": "Sholom Gherman\n\nSholom Gherman (born 1920) is a philosopher from Russia.\n\nGherman graduated from Leningrad State University with an MA in Philosophy. From there, he taught philosophy in \"higher schools of art\", according to his biography in the 1967 book \"\". He also published several other books of philosophy and theory of art.\n"}
{"id": "317633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317633", "title": "Social theory", "text": "Social theory\n\nSocial theories are analytical frameworks, or paradigms, that are used to study and interpret social phenomena. A tool used by social scientists, social theories relate to historical debates over the validity and reliability of different methodologies (e.g. positivism and antipositivism), the primacy of either structure or agency, as well as the relationship between contingency and necessity. Social theory in an informal nature, or authorship based outside of academic social and political science, may be referred to as \"social criticism\" or \"social commentary\", or \"cultural criticism\" and may be associated both with formal cultural and literary scholarship, as well as other non-academic or journalistic forms of writing.\n\nSocial theory by definition is used to make distinctions and generalizations among different types of societies, and to analyze modernity as it has emerged in the past few centuries. Social theory as it is recognized today emerged in the 20th century as a distinct discipline, and was largely equated with an attitude of critical thinking and the desire for knowledge through \"a posteriori\" methods of discovery, rather than \"a priori\" methods of tradition. \n\nSocial thought provides general theories to explain actions and behavior of society as a whole, encompassing sociological, political, and philosophical ideas. Classical social theory has generally been presented from a perspective of Western philosophy, and often regarded as Eurocentric.\n\nConfucius (551–479 BCE) envisaged a just society that went beyond his contemporary society of the Warring States. Later on, also in China, Mozi (\"circa\" 470 – \"circa\" 390 BCE) recommended a more pragmatic sociology, but ethical at base.\n\nIn the West, Saint Augustine (354–430) was concerned exclusively with the idea of the \"just society\". St. Augustine describes late Ancient Roman society through a lens of hatred and contempt for what he saw as false Gods, and in reaction theorized City of God. Ancient Greek philosophers, including Aristotle (384–322 BC) and Plato (428/427 or 424/423 – 348/347 BC), did not see a distinction between politics and society. The concept of society did not come until the Enlightenment period. The term, \"société\", was probably first used as key concept by Rousseau in discussion of social relations. Prior to the enlightenment, social theory took largely narrative and normative form. It was expressed as stories and fables, and it may be assumed the pre-Socratic philosophers and religious teachers were the precursors to social theory proper.\n\nThere is evidence of early Muslim sociology from the 14th century: in Ibn Khaldun's \"Muqaddimah\" (later translated as \"Prolegomena\" in Latin), the introduction to a seven volume analysis of universal history, was the first to advance social philosophy and social science in formulating theories of social cohesion and social conflict. Ibn Khaldun is thus considered by many to be the forerunner of sociology. Khaldun's treatise described in \"Muqaddimah\" \"(Introduction to History)\", published in 1377, two types of societies: (1) the city or town-dweller and (2) the mobile, nomadic societies.\n\nModernity arose during the Enlightenment period, with the emergence of the world economy and exchange among diverse societies, bringing sweeping changes and new challenges for society. Many French and Scottish intellectuals and philosophers embraced the idea of progress and ideas of modernity.\n\nThe Enlightenment period was marked by the idea was that with new discoveries challenging the traditional way of thinking, scientists were required to find new normativity. This process allowed scientific knowledge and society to progress. French thought during this period focused on moral critique and criticisms of the monarchy. These ideas did not draw on ideas of the past from classical thinkers, nor involved following religious teachings and authority of the monarch. \n\nA common factor among the classical theories was the agreement that the history of humanity is pursuing a fixed path. They differed on where that path would lead: social progress, technological progress, decline or even fall. Social cycle theorists were skeptical of the Western achievements and technological progress, but argued that progress is an illusion of the ups and downs of the historical cycles. The classical approach has been criticized by many modern sociologists and theorists; among them Karl Popper, Robert Nisbet, Charles Tilly and Immanuel Wallerstein.\n\nThe 19th century brought questions involving social order. The French Revolution freed French society of control by the monarchy, with no effective means of maintaining social order until Napoleon came to power. Three great classical theories of social and historical change emerged: the social evolutionism theory (of which Social Darwinism forms a part), the social cycle theory, and the Marxist historical materialism theory.\n\n19th-century classical social theory has been expanded upon to create newer, contemporary social theories such as multilineal theories of evolution (neoevolutionism, sociobiology, theory of modernization, theory of post-industrial society) and various strains of Neo-Marxism.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries, social theory became closely related to academic sociology, and other related studies such as anthropology, philosophy, and social work branched out into their own disciplines. Subjects like \"philosophy of history\" and other multi-disciplinary subject matter became part of social theory as taught under sociology.\n\nA revival of discussion free of disciplines began in the late 1920s and early 1930s. The Frankfurt Institute for Social Research is a historical example. The Committee on Social Thought at the University of Chicago followed in the 1940s. In the 1970s, programs in Social and Political Thought were established at Sussex and York. Others followed, with emphases and structures, such as Social Theory and History (University of California, Davis). Cultural Studies programs extended the concerns of social theory into the domain of culture and thus anthropology. A chair and undergraduate program in social theory was established at the University of Melbourne. Social theory at present seems to be gaining acceptance as a classical academic discipline.\n\nAdam Ferguson, Montesquieu, and John Millar, among others, were the first to study society as distinct from political institutions and processes. In the nineteenth century, the scientific method was introduced into study of society, which was a significant advance leading to development of sociology as a discipline.\n\nIn the 18th century, the pre-classical period of social theories developed a new form that provides the basic ideas for social theory, such as: evolution, philosophy of history, social life and social contract, public and general will, competition in social space, organistic pattern for social description.\nMontesquieu, in \"The Spirit of Laws\", which established that social elements influence human nature, was possibly the first to suggest a universal explanation for history. Montesquieu included changes in mores and manners as part of his explanation of political and historic events.\n\nPhilosophers, including Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Voltaire, and Denis Diderot, developed new social ideas during the Enlightenment period that were based on reason and methods of scientific inquiry. Jean-Jacques Rousseau in this time played a significant role in social theory. He revealed the origin of inequality, analyzed the social contract (and social compact) that forms social integration and defined the social sphere or civil society. Jean-Jacques Rousseau also emphasized that man has the liberty to change his world, an assertion that made it possible to program and change society.\n\nAdam Smith addressed the question of whether vast inequalities of wealth represented progress. He explained that the wealthy often demand convenience, employing numerous others to carry out labor to meet their demands. Smith argued that this allows wealth to be redistributed among inhabitants, and for all to share in progress of society. Smith explained that social forces could regulate the market economy with social objectivity and without need for government intervention. Smith regarded the division of labor as an important factor for economic progress. John Millar suggested that improved status of women was important for progress of society. Millar also advocated for abolition of slavery, suggesting that personal liberty makes people more industrious, ambitious, and productive.\n\nThe first \"modern\" social theories (known as classical theories) that begin to resemble the analytic social theory of today developed simultaneously with the birth of the science of sociology. Auguste Comte (1798–1857), known as the \"father of sociology\" and regarded by some as the first philosopher of science, laid the groundwork for positivism – as well as structural functionalism and social evolutionism. Karl Marx rejected Comtean positivism but nevertheless aimed to establish a \"science of society\" based on historical materialism, becoming recognised as a founding figure of sociology posthumously. At the turn of the 20th century, the first of German sociologists, including Max Weber and Georg Simmel, developed sociological antipositivism. The field may be broadly recognized as an amalgam of three modes of social scientific thought in particular; Durkheimian sociological positivism and structural functionalism, Marxist historical materialism and conflict theory, and Weberian antipositivism and verstehen critique.\n\nAnother early modern theorist, Herbert Spencer (1820–1903), coined the term \"survival of the fittest\". Vilfredo Pareto (1848–1923) and Pitirim A. Sorokin argued that \"history goes in cycles,\" and presented the social cycle theory to illustrate their point. Ferdinand Tönnies (1855–1936) made \"community\" and \"society\" (\"Gemeinschaft and Gesellschaft\", 1887) the special topics of the new science of \"sociology\", both of them based on different modes of will of social actors.\n\nThe 19th century pioneers of social theory and sociology, like Saint-Simon, Comte, Marx, John Stuart Mill or Spencer, never held university posts and they were broadly regarded as philosophers. Emile Durkheim endeavoured to formally established academic sociology, and did so at the University of Bordeaux in 1895, he published \"Rules of the Sociological Method\". In 1896, he established the journal \"L'Année Sociologique\". Durkheim's seminal monograph, \"Suicide\" (1897), a case study of suicide rates amongst Catholic and Protestant populations, distinguished sociological analysis from psychology or philosophy.\n\nThe term \"postmodernism\" was brought into social theory in 1971 by the Arab American Theorist Ihab Hassan in his book: \"The Dismemberment of Orpheus: Toward a Postmodern Literature\". In 1979 Jean-François Lyotard wrote a short but influential work \"The Postmodern Condition: A report on knowledge\". Jean Baudrillard, Michel Foucault, and Roland Barthes were influential in the 1970s in developing postmodern theory.\n\nScholars most commonly hold \"postmodernism\" to be a movement of ideas arising from, but also critical of elements of modernism. The wide range of uses of this term resulted in different elements of modernity are chosen as being continuous. Each of the different uses is rooted in some argument about the nature of knowledge, known in philosophy as epistemology. Individuals who use the term are arguing that either there is something fundamentally different about the transmission of meaning, or that modernism has fundamental flaws in its system of knowledge. \n\nThe argument for the necessity of the term states that economic and technological conditions of our age have given rise to a decentralized, media-dominated society. These ideas are simulacra, and only inter-referential representations and copies of each other, with no real original, stable or objective source for communication and meaning. Globalization, brought on by innovations in communication, manufacturing and transportation. Globalization is cited as one force which has decentralized modern life, creating a culturally pluralistic and interconnected global society, lacking any single dominant center of political power, communication, or intellectual production. The postmodern view is that inter-subjective knowledge, and not objective knowledge, is the dominant form of discourse. The ubiquity of copies and dissemination alters the relationship between reader and what is read, between observer and the observed, between those who consume and those who produce. \n\nNot all people who use the term postmodern or postmodernism see these developments as positive. Users of the term argue that their ideals have arisen as the result of particular economic and social conditions, including \"late capitalism\", the growth of broadcast media, and that such conditions have pushed society into a new historical period.\n\nIn the past few decades, in response to postmodern critiques, social theory has begun to stress free will, individual choice, subjective reasoning, and the importance of unpredictable events in place of deterministic necessity. Rational choice theory, symbolic interactionism, False necessity are examples of more recent developments. A view among contemporary sociologists is that there are no great unifying 'laws of history', but rather smaller, more specific, and more complex laws that govern society.\n\nPhilosopher and politician Roberto Mangabeira Unger recently attempted to revise classical social theory by exploring how things fit together, rather than to provide an all encompassing single explanation of a universal reality. He begins by recognizing the key insight of classical social theory of society as an artifact, and then by discarding the law-like characteristics forcibly attached to it. Unger argues that classical social theory was born proclaiming that society is made and imagined, and not the expression of an underlying natural order, but at the same time its capacity was checked by the equally prevalent ambition to create law-like explanations of history and social development. The human sciences that developed claimed to identify a small number of possible types of social organization that coexisted or succeeded one another through inescapable developmental tendencies or deep-seated economic organization or psychological constraints. Marxism is the star example.\n\nUnger, calling his efforts \"super-theory\", has thus sought to develop a comprehensive view of history and society. Unger does so without subsuming deep structure analysis under an indivisible and repeatable type of social organization or with recourse to law-like constraints and tendencies. His articulation of such a theory is in \"False Necessity: anti-necessitarian social theory in the service of radical democracy,\" where he uses deep-logic practice to theorize human social activity through anti-necessitarian analysis.\n\nUnger begins by formulating the theory of false necessity, which claims that social worlds are the artifact of human endeavors. There is no pre-set institutional arrangement that societies must adhere to, and there is no necessary historical mold of development that they will follow. We are free to choose and to create the forms and the paths that our societies will take. However, this does not give license to absolute contingency. Unger finds that there are groups of institutional arrangements that work together to bring about certain institutional forms—liberal democracy, for example. These forms are the basis of a social structure, which Unger calls formative context. In order to explain how we move from one formative context to another without the conventional social theory constraints of historical necessity (e.g. feudalism to capitalism), and to do so while remaining true to the key insight of individual human empowerment and anti-necessitarian social thought, Unger recognized that there are an infinite number of ways of resisting social and institutional constraints, which can lead to an infinite number of outcomes. This variety of forms of resistance and empowerment make change possible. Unger calls this empowerment negative capability. However, Unger adds that these outcomes are always reliant on the forms from which they spring. The new world is built upon the existing one.\n\nThe Chicago school developed in the 1920s, through the work of Albion Woodbury Small, W. I. Thomas, Ernest W. Burgess, Robert E. Park, Ellsworth Faris, George Herbert Mead, and other sociologists at the University of Chicago. The Chicago school focused on patterns and arrangement of social phenomenon across time and place, and within context of other social variables.\n\nCritical theorists rejected the \"objective\", scientific approach, and sought to frame theories within ideologies of human freedom.\n\nKarl Marx wrote and theorized about the importance of political economy on society, and focused on the \"material conditions\" of life. His theories centered around capitalism and its affect on class-struggle between the proletariat and bourgeoisie.\n\nPostmodernism was defined by Jean-François Lyotard as \"incredulity towards metanarratives\" and contrasted that with modern which he described as \"any science that legitimates itself with reference to a metadiscourse... making an explicit appeal to some grand narrative, such as the dialectics of Spirit the hermeneutics of meaning, the emancipation of the rational or working subject, or the creation of wealth.\"\n\nOther theories include:\n\nSome known French social thinkers are Claude Henri Saint-Simon, Auguste Comte, and Émile Durkheim.\n\nBritish social thought, with thinkers such as Herbert Spencer, addressed questions and ideas relating to political economy and social evolution. The political ideals of John Ruskin were a precursor of social economy (\"Unto This Last\" had a very important impact on Gandhi's philosophy).\n\nImportant German philosophers and social thinkers included Immanuel Kant, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Karl Marx, Max Weber, Georg Simmel and Niklas Luhmann.\n\nImportant Chinese philosophers and social thinkers included Shang Yang, Lao Zi, Confucius, Mencius, Wang Chong, Wang Yangming, Li Zhi, Zhu Xi, Gu Yanwu, Gong Zizhen, Wei Yuan, Kang Youwei, Lu Xun, Mao Zedong, Xi Jinping, Zhu Ming.\n\nImportant Italian social scientists include Antonio Gramsci, Gaetano Mosca, Vilfredo Pareto, Franco Ferrarotti.\n\nSocial theory seeks to question why humans inhabit the world the way they do, and how that came to be by looking at power relations, social structures, and social norms, while also examining how humans relate to each other and the society they find themselves in, how this has changed over time and in different cultures, and the tools used to measure those things. Social theory looks to interdisciplinarity, combining knowledge from multiple academic disciplines in order to enlighten these complex issues, and can draw on ideas from fields as diverse as anthropology and media studies. \n\nSocial theory guides scientific inquiry by promoting scientists to think about which topics are suitable for investigation and how they should measure them. Selecting or creating appropriate theory for use in examining an issue is an important skill for any researcher. Important distinctions: a \"theoretical orientation\" (or paradigm) is a worldview, the lens through which one organizes experience (i.e. thinking of human interaction in terms of power or exchange). A \"theory\" is an attempt to explain and predict behavior in particular contexts. A theoretical orientation cannot be proven or disproven; a theory can. \n\nHaving a theoretical orientation that sees the world in terms of power and control, one could create a theory about violent human behavior which includes specific causal statements (e.g. being the victim of physical abuse leads to psychological problems). This could lead to a hypothesis (prediction) about what one expects to see in a particular sample, e.g. \"a battered child will grow up to be shy or violent\". One can then test the hypothesis by looking to see if it is consistent with data. One might, for instance, review hospital records to find children who were abused, then track them down and administer a personality test to see if they show signs of being violent or shy. The selection of an appropriate (i.e. useful) theoretical orientation within which to develop a potentially helpful theory is the bedrock of social science.\n\nPhilosophical questions addressed by social thinkers often centered around modernity, including:\nOther issues relating to modernity that were addressed by social thinkers include social atomization, alienation, loneliness, social disorganization, and secularization.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38293703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38293703", "title": "Studies on Marx and Hegel", "text": "Studies on Marx and Hegel\n\nStudies on Marx and Hegel () is a 1955 book about Karl Marx and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel by the French philosopher Jean Hyppolite. It has received praise from commentators, and has been credited with showing Hegel's anticipation of existentialism.\n\nHyppolite provides assessments of Hegel's \"The Phenomenology of Spirit\" (1807), including the significance of Hegel's discussion in that work of the French Revolution. He also assesses Hegel's \"Science of Logic\", Marx's \"Das Kapital\" (1867–1883), and Marx's critique of Hegel's \"Elements of the Philosophy of Right\" (1820), and discusses György Lukács's \"The Young Hegel\" (1938).\n\n\"Studies on Marx and Hegel\" was published by Marcel Rivière et Cie in 1955. In 1969, an English translation by John O'Neill was published by Heinemann Educational Books Ltd. \n\n\"Studies on Marx and Hegel\" received a positive review from Michael Faia in \"American Sociological Review\". The book was also reviewed by the political scientist David McLellan in \"Sociology\".\n\nFaia credited Hyppolite with helping to clarify Hegel's philosophy, and with showing Marx's indebtedness to Charles Darwin. He also maintained that Hyppolite showed Hegel's anticipation of the ideas of existentialism.\n\nThe philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre concluded in \"Search for a Method\" (1957) Hyppolite was at least partially successful in his attempt to reinterpret Hegel as an existentialist. Sartre cited \"Studies on Marx and Hegel\" in \"Critique of Dialectical Reason\" (1960). The historian Peter Gay described \"Studies on Marx and Hegel\" as one of the best discussions of alienation in the literature on Marx and Hegel in the second volume of \"The Bourgeois Experience Victoria to Freud\" (1986).\n\nMcLellan called \"Studies on Marx and Hegel\" profound in the 1995 edition of his \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18249237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18249237", "title": "Vicki Noble", "text": "Vicki Noble\n\nVicki Noble (born 1947) is an American feminist shamanic healer, author, scholar and wisdom teacher.\n\nOriginally from Iowa, she arrived in Berkeley, California in 1976. In the 1970s she created, graduated with honors from, and subsequently taught in, the first women's interdisciplinary studies program at Colorado College. Noble worked for many years with archaeologist Marija Gimbutas, and has lectured and taught at the graduate level, both in the United States and abroad, on female shamanism and the healing arts. She has written several books, developed a ritual healing process, and led tours of women on pilgrimage to sacred Goddess sites around the world, including to Peru, Ireland, England, Bali, Malta, Greece, Turkey, Egypt and the Aegean Islands.\n\nShe has been appointed to a halftime position as Scholar in Residence in the Women’s Spirituality graduate program at New College of California in San Francisco. She also currently teaches at the California Institute of Integral Studies. Her most recent research project has taken her into Russia to work with archaeologist , director of the Center for the Study of Eurasian Nomads and founder of the Kazakh/American Research Project.\n\nNoble has two daughters, Robyn and Brooke, and a son named Aaron Eagle, who was the subject of her book, \"Down Is Up for Aaron Eagle\".\n\nWith artist Karen Vogel, Noble co-authored the Motherpeace Tarot based upon the documented history and ethnography of female esoteric practices. Noble authored several highly respected books on female shamanism, such as \"Shakti Woman\". In 1990 and 1991 she published a total of four issues of the magazine \"Snakepower\", which received an Utne Reader nomination as Best First Publication. The content of the last two issues was consolidated into an anthology, edited by Noble and published by HarperSF in 1994, titled \"Uncoiling the Snake\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16806155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16806155", "title": "William Herbert Dray", "text": "William Herbert Dray\n\nWilliam Herbert Dray (23 June 1921, in Montreal – 6 August 2009, in Toronto) was a Canadian philosopher of history. He was Professor Emeritus at the University of Ottawa.\n\nHe is known for his version of anti-positivist \"Verstehen\" in history, in \"Laws and Explanation in History\", and his work on R. G. Collingwood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2022813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2022813", "title": "X Club", "text": "X Club\n\nThe X Club was a dining club of nine men who supported the theories of natural selection and academic liberalism in late 19th-century England. Thomas Henry Huxley was the initiator: he called the first meeting for 3 November 1864. The club met in London once a month—except in July, August and September—from November 1864 until March 1893, and its members are believed to have wielded much influence over scientific thought. The members of the club were George Busk, Edward Frankland, Thomas Archer Hirst, Joseph Dalton Hooker, Thomas Henry Huxley, John Lubbock, Herbert Spencer, William Spottiswoode, and John Tyndall, united by a \"devotion to science, pure and free, untrammelled by religious dogmas.\"\n\nThe nine men who would compose the X Club already knew each other well. By the 1860s, friendships had turned the group into a social network, and the men often dined and went on holidays together. After Charles Darwin's \"On the Origin of Species\" was published in 1859, the men began working together to aid the cause for naturalism and natural history. They backed the liberal Anglican movement that emerged in the early 1860s, and both privately and publicly supported the leaders of the movement.\n\nAccording to its members, the club was originally started to keep friends from drifting apart, and to partake in scientific discussion free from theological influence. A key aim was to reform the Royal Society, with a view to making the practice of science professional. In the 1870s and 1880s, the members of the group became prominent in the scientific community and some accused the club of having too much power in shaping the scientific landscape of London. The club was terminated in 1893, after depletion by death, and as old age made regular meetings of the surviving members impossible.\n\nWhen the first dinner meeting commenced on 3 November 1864 at St. George's Hotel on Albemarle Street in central London, the eight members of what was to be known as the X Club—William Spottiswoode was added at the second meeting in December 1864—already had extensive social ties with one another. In the mid-1850s, the men who would come to make up the X Club formed two distinct sets of friends. John Tyndall, Edward Frankland and Thomas Hirst, men who became friends in the late 1840s, were artisans who became physical scientists. Thomas Huxley, Joseph Dalton Hooker, and George Busk, friends since the early 1850s, had worked as surgeons and had become professional naturalists. Beginning in the mid-1850s, the network began to form around Huxley and Hooker, and these six men began helping one another, both as friends and professionals. In 1863, for example, Tyndall aided Frankland in getting a position at the Royal Institution. Spottiswoode, Herbert Spencer, and John Lubbock joined the circle of friends during the debates over evolution and naturalism in the early 1860s.\n\nThe original members of the club had much in common. They shared a middle-class background and similar theological beliefs. All of the men were middle-aged, except Lubbock, who was 30, and Busk, who was 57, and all of the men, except Lubbock, lived in London. More importantly, the men of the club all shared an interest in natural history, naturalism, and a more general pursuit of intellectual thought free from religious influence, commonly referred to as academic liberalism.\n\nThe X Club came together during a period of turbulent conflict in both science and religion in Victorian England. The publication in 1859 of Charles Darwin's book \"On the Origin of Species through Natural Selection\" brought a storm of argument, with the scientific establishment of wealthy amateurs and clerical naturalists as well as the Church of England attacking this new development. Since the start of the 19th century they had seen evolutionism as an assault on the divinely ordained aristocratic social order. On the other side, Darwin's ideas on evolution were welcomed by liberal theologians and by a new generation of salaried professional scientists; the men who would later come to form the X Club supported Darwin, and saw his work as a great stride in the struggle for freedom from clerical interference in science. The members of the X social network played a significant part in nominating Darwin for the Copley Medal in 1864.\n\nIn 1860, \"Essays and Reviews\", a collection of essays on Christianity written by a group of liberal Anglicans, was published. The collection represented a summation of a nearly century-long challenge to the history and prehistory of the Bible by higher critics as well as geologists and biologists. In short, the writers of \"Essays and Reviews\" sought to analyse the Bible like any other work of literature. At the time, \"Essays\" created more of a stir than Darwin's book. The members of the X network backed the collection, and Lubbock even sought to form an alliance between liberal Anglicans and scientists. Two liberal Anglican theologians were convicted of heresy, and when the government overturned the judgement on appeal, Samuel Wilberforce, the High Church and the evangelicals organised petitions and a mass backlash against evolution. At the Anglican convocation, the evangelicals presented a declaration reaffirming their faith in the harmony of God's word and his works and tried to make this a compulsory \"Fortieth Article\" of faith. They took their campaign to the British Association for the Advancement of Science, aiming to overthrow Huxley's \"dangerous clique\" of Darwin's allies.\n\nIn 1862, Bishop John William Colenso of Natal published \"The Pentateuch and Book of Joshua Critically Examined\", an analysis of the first five books of the Old Testament. In his analysis Colenso used mathematics and concepts of population dynamics, including examinations of food supply and transportation, to show that the first five books of the Bible were faulty and unreliable. Outrage broke out within the Church of England, and the X network not only gave their support to Colenso, but at times even dined with him to discuss his ideas.\nLater, in 1863, a new rift began to emerge within the scientific community over race theory. Debate was stirred up when the Anthropological Society of London, which rejected Darwinian theory, claimed that slavery was defensible based on the theory of evolution proposed by Darwin. The members of what would become the X Club sided with the Ethnological Society of London, which denounced slavery and embraced academic liberalism. The men of the X Club, especially Lubbock, Huxley, and Busk, felt that dissension and the \"jealousies of theological sects\" within learned societies were damaging, and they attempted to limit the contributions the Anthropological Society made to the British Association for the Advancement of Science, a society of which they were all members.\n\nThus, by 1864, the members of the X Club were joined in a fight, both public and private, to unite the London scientific community with the objective of furthering the ideas of academic liberalism.\n\nDining clubs, common in late-Victorian England, were characterised by informal gatherings where men with similar interests could share new ideas and information among friends. Many formal societies and institutions that existed in England during the 19th century started as informal dining clubs. The problem with most formal societies at the time, especially to those men that would come together to form the X Club, was the manner in which meetings were conducted; most were too large and unsuitable for the discussion of private scientific matters. In addition, due to the outbreak of debates over evolution and religion within the scientific societies of London during the 1860s, the pursuit of discussion with likeminded men was often difficult.\n\nSeveral scientific clubs, such as the Philosophical Club and the Red Lion Club, were formed in the late 19th century, but these organisations lacked the scientific professionalism that serious scientists, including those members of the X Club such as Hooker and Huxley, sought. Other more serious clubs, such as the 'B-Club', were not sufficiently intimate for the men who would comprise the X Club.\n\nIn 1864, Huxley wrote to Hooker and explained that he feared he and his group of friends, the other men of the social network, would drift apart and lose contact. He proposed the creation of a club that would serve to maintain social ties among the members of the network, and Hooker readily agreed. Huxley always insisted that sociability was the only purpose of the club, but others in the club, most notably Hirst, claimed that the founding members had other intentions. In his description of the first meeting, Hirst wrote that what brought the men together was actually a \"devotion to science, pure and free, untrammelled by religious dogmas,\" and he predicted that situations would arise when their concerted efforts would be of great use.\n\nOn the night of the first meeting, Huxley jokingly proposed that the club be named \"Blastodermic Club\", in reference to blastoderm, a layer of cells in the ovum of birds that acts as the center of development for the entire bird. Some historians, such as Ruth Barton, feel that Huxley wanted the newly formed club to act as a guide to the development of science. The name \"Thorough Club\", which referred to the movements that existed at the time for the \"freedom to express unorthodox opinion\", was also rejected as a possible name. As Spencer would later explain, \"X Club\" was chosen in May 1865 because \"it committed [the group] to nothing.\" The name itself, according to Hirst, was proposed by Mrs. Busk.\n\nIt was also decided on the first night that each ensuing meeting would take place on the first Thursday of each month, except during the holiday months of July, August, and September. During the existence of the club, dinners took place at St. George’s Hotel on Albemarle Street, Almond’s Hotel on Clifford Street, and finally at the Athenaeum Club after 1886. Meetings always started at six in the evening so that dinner would be over in time for the Royal Society meetings at 8:00 or 8:30 pm in the Burlington House.\nEight men attended the first meeting, and in addition Spottiswoode came to the next meeting in December 1864, making the membership of nine. William Benjamin Carpenter, an English physiologist, and William Fergusson, the Queen's surgeon, were also invited to join the club, but they declined. After some discussion, it was decided, according to Spencer, that no more members would be added because no other men outside their network were friendly or intelligent enough to be part of the X Club. In contrast, Huxley would later write that no others were admitted to the group because it was agreed that the name of any new member would have to contain \"all the consonants absent from the names of the old ones.\" As the members of the club had no Slavonic friends, the matter was supposedly dropped.\n\nAccording to Spencer, the only rule the club had was to have no rules. When a resolution was proposed in November 1885 to keep formal notes of the meetings, the motion was defeated because it violated the rule. Nevertheless, the club kept both a secretary and a treasurer, and both positions were held in turn by each member of the club. These offices were in charge of account collecting and sending notices of upcoming meetings. Members, including Hirst, Huxley, Hooker, and Tyndall, also took informal notes of the meetings.\n\nBetween the time of its inception in 1864 and its termination in 1893, the X club and its members gained much prominence within the scientific community, carrying much influence over scientific thought, similar to the Scientific Lazzaroni in the United States and the Society of Arcueil in France. Between 1870 and 1878, Hooker, Spottiswoode, and Huxley held office in the Royal Society simultaneously, and between 1873 and 1885, they consecutively held the presidency of the Royal Society. Spottiswoode was treasurer of the Society between 1870 and 1878 and Huxley was elected Senior Secretary in 1872. Frankland and Hirst were also of importance to the Society, as the previous held the position of Foreign Secretary between 1895 and 1899, and the latter served on the Council three times between 1864 and 1882.\n\nOutside the Royal Society, the men of the X Club continued to gain influential positions. Five members of the Club held the presidency of the British Association for the Advancement of Science between 1868 and 1881. Hirst was elected president of the London Mathematical Society between 1872 and 1874 while Busk served as Examiner and eventually President of the Royal College of Surgeons. Frankland also served as President of the Chemical Society between 1871 and 1873.\n\nDuring this time, the members of the X-Club began to gain renown and win awards within the scientific community in London. Among the nine, three received the Copley Medal, five received the Royal Medal, two received Darwin Medals, one received the Rumford Medal, one received the Lyell Medal, and one received the Wollaston Medal. Eighteen honorary degrees were handed out among the nine members, as well as one Prussian 'Pour le Mérite' and one Order of Merit. Two of the members were knighted, one served as Privy Councillor, one as Justice of the Peace, three as Corresponding Members, and one was a Foreign Associate of the French Academy of Sciences.\n\nAs the members of the club continued to gain prominence within the scientific community, the private club became well known. Many people at the time viewed the club as a scientific caucus, and some, such as Richard Owen, accused the group of having too much influence in shaping the scientific landscape of late-Victorian England. Huxley recounted that he once overheard a conversation about the club between two men of the Athenaeum Club, and when one asked what the X-Club did, the other explained \"Well they govern scientific affairs, and really, on the whole, they don't do it badly.\" Informal notes of early meetings seem to confirm some of the concerns. Discussion often surrounded the nomination of members to offices of major societies, as well as the negotiation of pension and medal claims. In 1876, the club even voted to collectively support Lubbock’s candidacy for the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nHuxley, however, always stated that the simple purpose of the club was to bring friends together who may have drifted apart otherwise. According to Huxley, the fact that all the members of the club gained distinction within science was merely coincidental.\n\nBy 1880, the members of the X Club had prominent positions within the scientific community, and the club was highly regarded, but it was beginning to fall apart. In 1883, Spottiswoode died of typhoid and at the same time, according to Spencer, only two of the remaining eight members of the X club were in good health. Attendance at meetings began to dwindle and by 1885, Frankland and Lubbock urged for the election of new members. There was a difference of opinion on the matter and it was eventually dropped. In 1889, a rift emerged in the group when Huxley and Spencer had an argument over land nationalisation policies and refused to talk with one another.\n\nThe members of the club were growing old and during the late 1880s and early 1890s, a few of the members moved out of London. When attendance began to severely dwindle, talks of ending the club emerged. The last meeting was held unceremoniously in March 1893, and only Frankland and Hooker attended.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23829901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23829901", "title": "Xueren", "text": "Xueren\n\nXueren (English: \"The Scholar\") was an influential Chinese independent intellectual journal that ran from 1991 to 2000. It was founded and edited by Chen Pingyuan, Wang Hui, and Wang Shouchang under the sponsorship of a Japanese foundation. In order to work around censorship conditions in the Chinese publishing industry that make it more difficult for periodicals to get approval than books, \"Xueren\" was published as a \"series\" in the latter format. Other journals that have taken the same approach include \"Res Publica\" and \"Horizons\".\n\nScholar Chaohua Wang locates \"Xueren\"'s origins in \"the self-examination of intellectuals intimately involved in the ferment of the eighties\":\n\nThe project of its editors [. . .] was to retrieve the history of modern Chinese scholarship (\"xueshu shi\"), a tradition they felt was in danger of being obscured or forgotten under the pressure of imported theories. In doing so, they wanted to clarify their own intellectual identity and responsibilities. What was their position in a historical chain of scholarly development? When and how should a scholar speak out on public issues?\n\nCo-founder Wang Hui characterizes his and his colleagues' motivations similarly, but without a critical approach toward \"imported theories\" in academe as a primary component of their intellectual project, and with more of an eye toward directly socially relevant goals. According to him, \"Xueren\" was created to facilitate an effort by young intellectuals to \"reconsider\" modern Chinese history in the wake of the failure of the 1989 democracy movement, a \"process of reflection\" that\n\nincluded serious reconsideration of modern history, conscientious rethinking of attempts to carry out radical reform on the basis of Western models, close investigation of the Chinese historical legacy and its contemporary significance, and necessary critiques of certain of the consequences of radical political action.\n\nHowever, Wang Hui states that \"Xueren\" \"did not pursue any particular academic agenda.\"\n\nThe 648-page seventh issue of \"Xueren\" (May 1995) printed the following table of contents in English (though all articles were in Chinese):\n\n"}
