{"id": "51738345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51738345", "title": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Foggia", "text": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Foggia\n\nThe Accademia di Belle Arti di Foggia is an academy of fine arts located in Foggia, Italy. It was founded in 1970.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1308001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1308001", "title": "Ace (Doctor Who)", "text": "Ace (Doctor Who)\n\nAce is a fictional character played by Sophie Aldred in the long-running British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". A 20th-century Earth teenager from the London suburb of Perivale, she is a companion of the Seventh Doctor and was a regular in the series from 1987 to 1989. She is considered one of the Doctor's most popular companions.\n\nAce appeared in nine stories (31 episodes), and was the final companion in the original run of the classic series.\n\n\"Doctor Who\" script editor Andrew Cartmel said that the character was written to be a \"fighter and not a screamer\".\n\nAce is a 16-year-old human who first appears in the 1987 serial \"Dragonfire\", where she is working as a waitress in the frozen food retail complex of Iceworld on the planet Svartos. She had been a troubled teen on Earth, having been expelled from school for blowing up the art room as a \"creative statement\". Gifted in chemistry (despite failing the subject at O-level), she was in her room experimenting with the extraction of nitroglycerin from gelignite when a 'time storm' swept her up and transported her to Iceworld, many years in the future. There, she meets the Doctor and his companion Mel. When Mel leaves the Doctor at the conclusion of the serial, he offers to take Ace with him in the TARDIS, and she happily accepts.\n\nAce suffered traumatic events in her childhood, including a bad relationship with her mother Audrey (the daughter of merchant seaman Frank William Dudman and his wife Kathleen, who served in the Women's Royal Naval Service during World War II) and the racially motivated Molotov cocktail firebombing of her friend Manisha's flat when she was 13. Following the latter event, needing to lash out, she burned down a local abandoned Victorian house named Gabriel Chase after sensing the presence of the villain Light there and was put on probation. Consequently, Ace covered up her own fears and insecurities with a streetwise, tough exterior. Her weapon of choice, disapproved of by the Doctor (who nonetheless found it useful on occasion), was a powerful explosive she called \"Nitro-9\", which she invented and mixed up in canisters which she carried around in her backpack.\n\nAffectionately giving the Doctor the nickname of \"Professor\", Ace is convinced that he needs her to watch his back, and protects him with a fierce loyalty. In turn, the Doctor seems to take a special interest in Ace's education, taking her across the universe and often prompting her to figure out explanations for herself rather than giving her all the answers. However, the Seventh Doctor's increasing tendency to manipulate events and people (including her), even with what appears to be the best of intentions, results in several difficult moments in their relationship.\n\nUnder the Doctor's tutelage, Ace fights the Daleks in \"Remembrance of the Daleks\", the Cybermen in \"Silver Nemesis\", encounters the all-powerful Gods of Ragnarok in \"The Greatest Show in the Galaxy\", the sadistic torturer Kandy Man in \"The Happiness Patrol\", and many other dangers. She also faces the ghosts of her own past in \"Ghost Light\" and \"The Curse of Fenric\", coming to terms with them and, ironically, creating them in the latter case thanks to the paradoxes of time travel. Over time, she starts to mature into a confident young woman, and her brash exterior ceases to be a front.\n\nWhat the Doctor is aware of, but Ace is not, is that her arrival on Iceworld was no accident but part of a larger scheme stretching across the centuries and conceived by Fenric, an evil that had existed since the beginning of the universe. Ace is a \"Wolf of Fenric\", one of many descendants of a Norseman tainted with Fenric's genetic instructions to help free it from its ancient prison so it can evolve humans into the Vampiric Haemovores, and a pawn in the complex game between it and the Doctor. After Fenric is defeated in 1943, Ace continues to journey with the Doctor.\n\nIn the original script for Part One of \"The Curse of Fenric\", writer Ian Briggs planned to reveal that Ace was no longer a virgin, but producer John Nathan-Turner forced him to cut this. Instead, at one point in the story, Ace offers to distract a guard so that the Doctor can free a prisoner. When the Doctor asks how she plans to divert the guard's attention she replies that she is \"not a little girl\". She proceeds to lead the guard away from his post by intriguing him with a combination of slightly suggestive innuendo towards the guard and cryptic musings about the Doctor's machinations. The scene suggests that she is aware of both her developed sexuality and the Doctor's manipulative tendencies. Briggs, who had created the character of Ace, had stated in Ace's character outline for \"Dragonfire\" that she had lost her virginity to Sabalom Glitz on Iceworld.\n\nThe circumstances of Ace's parting of ways with the Doctor are not known, as the series went on hiatus in 1989 with the end of the very next serial, \"Survival\", in which Ace is returned by the Doctor to Perivale but ultimately chooses to leave again with him. A painting seen in the extended version of \"Silver Nemesis\" suggests that at some point in her personal future Ace will end up in 18th or 19th century France. This idea is further explored in the novelisation of \"The Curse of Fenric\" and the Virgin New Adventures. The novelisation contains an epilogue not included in the televised serial, in which the Doctor visits an older Ace in 1887 Paris.\n\nIf the series had continued, the production team's intent was to have Ace eventually enter the Prydonian Academy on the Doctor's home planet of Gallifrey and train to be a Time Lord. The story \"Ice Time\" by Marc Platt, in which this would happen, was never made. When the Seventh Doctor is next seen in the 1996 \"Doctor Who\" television movie, he is travelling alone, with no reference made as to what had happened to Ace.\n\nHowever, in \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" story \"Death of the Doctor\", Sarah Jane reveals to her companions that she has done research on some of the Doctor's companions. She mentions \"that Dorothy something — she runs that charity, 'A Charitable Earth' (\"ACE\"). She's raised billions.\" In the same episode, the Eleventh Doctor reveals that his Tenth incarnation looked in on each of his former companions as he prepared for regeneration at the end of \"The End of Time\".\n\nAce and the Seventh Doctor appeared twice more on television after \"Doctor Who\" was cancelled. The first occasion was in 1990, in a special episode of the BBC2 educational programme \"Search Out Science\". In this episode, the Doctor acts as a quiz show host, asking questions about astronomy; Ace, K-9 and \"Cedric, from the planet Glurk\" are the contestants. The last appearance of Ace on British television was in the 1993 charity special \"Dimensions in Time\".\n\nAce was also featured in the \"Doctor Who Magazine\" comic strip sporadically, one of the few television companions to appear in it.\n\nThe character is extensively developed in the New Adventures, a BBC-licensed series of novels from Virgin Books continuing on from \"Survival\". Ace becomes more and more frustrated with the Doctor's manipulations; he forcibly separates her from a potential relationship with Robin Yeadon in \"Nightshade\" and sacrifices her lover Jan to defeat the alien Hoothi in \"Love and War\" by Paul Cornell, which proves to be the last straw. She leaves the TARDIS, joins Spacefleet and fights the Daleks for three years, later rejoining the Doctor and his new companion Bernice Summerfield in \"Deceit\" by Peter Darvill-Evans, older and more hardened. This development in the character was the result of a deliberate decision by Darvill-Evans as the editor of the line at Virgin to change Ace and her role in the ongoing narrative. It is first revealed in \"Blood Heat\" by Jim Mortimore that Manisha had died in the firebombing of her flat.\n\nAce's relationship with the Doctor remains strained for some time, boiling over in \"Blood Heat\" when the Doctor destroys an unstable parallel Earth (where Manisha is still alive) and under the influence of an alien creature she stabs him through one of his hearts in \"The Left-Handed Hummingbird\". In \"No Future\" (also by Cornell) the Meddling Monk tries to manipulate her into betraying the Doctor, which she seemingly does, again stabbing him and leaving him alone on an ice planet. In reality she stabbed him with a pantomime knife from the TARDIS wardrobe and she is playing her own game (partly to teach him what it feels like to be manipulated). When the Monk and his chained Chronovore offer her a chance to return Jan to life, she refuses and rejoins the TARDIS crew, her issues with the Doctor resolved. In \"Set Piece\" by Kate Orman, Ace becomes stranded in Ancient Egypt and comes to realise that she can survive without the Doctor, but that she also increasingly sees the world as he does. At the book's end she leaves the Doctor again to become Time's Vigilante, using a short-range time hopper mounted on a motorcycle to patrol a particular segment of time; in effect doing what the Doctor does, but on a smaller scale. She appears in later books, notably \"Head Games\", \"Happy Endings\", and \"Lungbarrow\".\n\nOther spin-off media give contradictory versions of Ace's eventual fate. The comic strip in \"Doctor Who Magazine\" has Ace killed off just prior to the events of the 1996 television movie (\"Ground Zero\", DWM #238-#242). In the webcast audio play \"Death Comes to Time\", Ace inherits the mantle of the Time Lords when they become extinct.\n\nAce's first name is Dorothy, and production notes suggest that it was intended that her last name would be Gale, an allusion to \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\", given the fact that she was transported to Iceworld via a time storm. In another contradiction, the novels (and, following their lead, Big Finish audio plays) have given Ace the last name of McShane. A sequence of BBC Books' Past Doctor Adventures set after \"Survival\" and written by Mike Tucker and Robert Perry used the \"Dorothy Gale\" name, as the authors were unaware of the name used in the New Adventures. This was eventually resolved to some extent when the novel Loving the Alien (novel) by Tucker and Perry saw the original Ace (Dorothy Gale) shot and killed, but replaced by an Ace from another universe whose real name is \"Dorothy McShane\". Loving the Alien also makes it clear that all the television episodes and Tucker/Perry novels occur \"before\" the New Adventures, thus reconciling the different ranges.\n\nSophie Aldred has voiced Ace for several audio plays produced by Big Finish Productions, alongside Sylvester McCoy as the Seventh Doctor and, in some stories, Lisa Bowerman as Bernice Summerfield or Philip Olivier as Hex. In one of these stories, \"The Rapture\", Ace discovers that she has a brother named Liam, of whom she had no previous knowledge. As the more experienced traveller, Ace has developed a slightly flirtatious mentor-teacher relationship with Hex. How the audio plays tie in with the other media is not clear, and the continuity of the various lines may not match up with each other.\n\nIn 1996, Virgin's Doctor Who Books imprint published a hardback by Sophie Aldred and Mike Tucker entitled \"Ace!: The Inside Story of the End of an Era\" (). This book gives details of each serial featuring the character Ace, complete with many photographs and concept art. It also contains a list of other spin-offs in which the character of Ace appears and some of the conventions which Sophie Aldred attended, along with information about the planned Season 27, including Ace's departure. In 1998, BBV produced a number of audio adventures starring McCoy and Aldred as \"The Professor\" and \"Ace\". The plays were not licensed by the BBC, but the duo were clearly intended to be the same characters, to the extent that the BBC intervened, causing BBV to change the character names to \"The Dominie\" and \"Alice\".\n\nThe Reeltime Pictures video \"Mindgame\" features Sophie Aldred as \"the Human\", imprisoned with a Sontaran and a Draconian.\n\nIn 2018, Ace was confirmed to appear in six audio dramas based on Doctor Who spin-off \"Class\", with Aldred reprising her role alongside the show's main cast.\n\nThe character of Ace has been cited as the first \"modern\" companion for the Doctor. One of the reasons is that her character was written to be more realistic, three-dimensional and to grow as a person throughout her run on the show.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18317576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18317576", "title": "Alaska Native art", "text": "Alaska Native art\n\nAlaska Native cultures are rich and diverse, and their art forms are representations of their history, skills, tradition, adaptation, and nearly twenty thousand years of continuous life in some of the most remote places on earth. These art forms are largely unseen and unknown outside the state of Alaska, due to distance from the art markets of the world.\n\nHistorically, \"art\" as a decorative concept did not traditionally exist among these indigenous people. Objects were utilitarian, although decorated in ways that conveyed images of spiritual or physical activity. It was not until Europeans and Asians first made contact with the indigenous people of coastal Alaska in the 17th century that such non-utilitarian art objects began to be traded in exchange for metal implements, cloth, and foodstuffs such as tea, flour, or sugar.\n\nMany objects traded were valued for their functionality: clothing woven of grass, harpoon tips carved from the ivory tusk of the walrus; rainproof outerwear sewn from membranes in the intestines of seals; and animal skins valued for their warmth and durability. Gradually, these items were refined to be more decorative, as a way to increase their value in trade. For example, a walrus tusk might be etched with many hunting scenes depicting life of the coastal people; later, this technique would come to be known as \"scrimshaw\" when brought back to New England on whaling ships. Elaborate patterns in beadwork were designed as the beads themselves arrived through trade; Regalia of all types used for ceremonial purposes – masks, woven clothing, hats, dance fans – all became souvenirs for the whalers and explorers of the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. Even the towering totem poles from Southeastern Alaska found their way back to the East Coast of the United States, where they formed the basis of many museum collections.\nWhile the art forms were and still are as different as the cultures of the Native people who made them – Athabaskan Indians of the vast Interior, Inupiaq of the Northwestern Arctic coasts; Yupik and St. Lawrence Island Yupik of the Bering Sea coast; Aleuts and Alutiiq people from the Aleutian islands; and the Tlingit, Haida and Tsimshian Indians often known as Northwest Coastal tribes – they commonly evoke references to living in harmony with nature and all its many creatures. No part of an animal hunted, fished or trapped could be wasted, for example, so one might see boots or \"mukluks\" made of bearded seal skin for soles, salmon skin for the outer layer, and straps of caribou or deerskin, perhaps even dyed with berries. As Native people lived off the land and the sea, their relationships to a particular place could always be seen in their objects in both physical and metaphorical terms. As traditions evolved through more \"westernization\" with Russian America in the 17th century and Territorial Alaska beginning in 1867 and finally the creation of Alaska as our 49th State in 1959, so did their art forms.\n\nAll are continually evolving, blurring the distinction between what an art critic today might want to categorize as \"traditional\" versus \"contemporary\" Native art. And contemporary, international art values have a place in Alaska Native art. Wall-size paintings, three-dimensional mobiles, life-size bronze castings and marble sculptures, to name just a few categories, fill galleries alongside bears carved from whalebones, cribbage boards honed from full-length walrus tusks, fine jewelry etched of copper and silvers; Nephrite jade and musk ox horn polished into bracelets, bentwood boxes carved from coastal white cedar trees; and baskets of infinite shapes and designs, from birch bark or woven spruce root, beach grasses or the baleen from a bowhead whale, all intricately woven and shaped into vessels of all sizes.\n\nThe Inupiat tribes create useful tools such as bows, arrows, harpoons, float discs, snow beaters, boot sole creasers, skin scrapers, fat removers, spoons, handles, rope, belts and other clothing from materials they find locally. These materials include fish skin, caribou hide, polar bear fur, whale baleen (baleen basketry), old ivory and seal (all parts of each animal are normally used somehow for tool-making if not consumed). Masks were often made for ceremonial purposes, bringing the people, animals and spirits together in one being. Traditionally sculptures are not made for decoration, but as \"good luck amulets\" for hunting, or sometimes they are toys for small children. Objects are often colored with charcoal and then a layer of fish oil was also applied to assure it does not rub off. Although contemporary commercial paints are commonly used today. Mukluks (shoes) and parkas (jackets) were sewn by the women out of animal hides and were generally only elaborately decorated for ceremonies. This art form is called \"skin-sewing.\"\nThe Yup'ik tribes traditionally decorate most all of their tools, even ones that perform smaller functions. One of their most popular forms of art are masks, which are generally made of wood and range in size from a few inches tall to several pounds in weight. They most often create masks for ceremonies but the masks are traditionally destroyed after being used. These masks are used to bring the person wearing it luck and good fortune in hunts. Masks are the result of multiple persons efforts, sometimes created by one in mind but physically created by another\n\nThe Tlingit tribes' artwork is also frequently functional. Their artwork often consists of clothing and carvings, including canoes and totem poles, which are still well-recognized today. The tools generally used for carving are knives, traditionally made of shell, stone or bone, depending on the artist and what its purpose. The materials that are carved were bone of sheep or goat, and most often wood. Many types of wood are found in the southeastern panhandle of Alaska; some major species include cedar (both yellow and red) for totems and canoes, and finally, alder is used in making dishes and utensils for eating since that wood does not impart its taste onto food. Totem poles always tell a story, since the Tlingit culture traditional is an oral culture with minimal written history. Each animal on a totem pole represent family crests or tells a specific story.\n\nWith the advent of the internet, all of these art forms can now be seen and appreciated from anywhere. The Alaska Native Arts Foundation, a non-profit organization, is dedicated to supporting Native artists and their subsistence lifestyles based on living in harmony with the environment. The University of Alaska, Fairbanks has a Native art program, created in 1965.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4878340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4878340", "title": "Algorithmic art", "text": "Algorithmic art\n\nAlgorithmic art, also known as \"algorithm art\", is art, mostly visual art, of which the design is generated by an algorithm. Algorithmic artists are sometimes called algorists.\n\nAlgorithmic art, also known as computer-generated art, is a subset of generative art (generated by an autonomous system) and is related to systems art (influenced by systems theory). Fractal art is an example of algorithmic art.\n\nFor an image of reasonable size, even the simplest algorithms require too much calculation for manual execution to be practical, and they are thus executed on either a single computer or on a cluster of computers. The final output is typically displayed on a computer monitor, printed with a raster-type printer, or drawn using a plotter. Variability can be introduced by using pseudo-random numbers. There is no consensus as to whether the product of an algorithm that operates on an existing image (or on any input other than pseudo-random numbers) can still be considered computer-generated art, as opposed to computer-assisted art.\n\nRoman Verostko argues that Islamic geometric patterns are constructed using algorithms, as are Italian Renaissance paintings which make use of mathematical techniques, in particular linear perspective and proportion.\n\nSome of the earliest known examples of computer-generated algorithmic art were created by Georg Nees, Frieder Nake, A. Michael Noll, Manfred Mohr and in the early 1960s. These artworks were executed by a plotter controlled by a computer, and were therefore computer-generated art but not digital art. The act of creation lay in writing the program, which specified the sequence of actions to be performed by the plotter. Sonia Landy Sheridan established Generative Systems as a program at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago in 1970 in response to social change brought about in part by the computer-robot communications revolution. Her early work with copier and telematic art focused on the differences between the human hand and the algorithm. \n\nAside from the ongoing work of Roman Verostko and his fellow algorists, the next known examples are fractal artworks created in the mid to late 1980s. These are important here because they use a different means of execution. Whereas the earliest algorithmic art was \"drawn\" by a plotter, fractal art simply creates an image in computer memory; it is therefore digital art. The native form of a fractal artwork is an image stored on a computer –this is also true of very nearly all equation art and of most recent algorithmic art in general. However, in a stricter sense \"fractal art\" is not considered algorithmic art, because the algorithm is not devised by the artist.\n\nIn light of such ongoing developments, pioneer algorithmic artist Ernest Edmonds has documented the continuing prophetic role of art in human affairs by tracing the early 1960s association between art and the computer up to a present time in which the algorithm is now widely recognized as a key concept for society as a whole. \n\nFrom one point of view, for a work of art to be considered algorithmic art, its creation must include a process based on an algorithm devised by the artist. Here, an algorithm is simply a detailed recipe for the design and possibly execution of an artwork, which may include computer code, functions, expressions, or other input which ultimately determines the form the art will take. This input may be mathematical, computational, or generative in nature. Inasmuch as algorithms tend to be deterministic, meaning that their repeated execution would always result in the production of identical artworks, some external factor is usually introduced. This can either be a random number generator of some sort, or an external body of data (which can range from recorded heartbeats to frames of a movie.) Some artists also work with organically based gestural input which is then modified by an algorithm. By this definition, fractals made by a fractal program are not art, as humans are not involved. However, defined differently, algorithmic art can be seen to include fractal art, as well as other varieties such as those using genetic algorithms. The artist Kerry Mitchell stated in his 1999 \"Fractal Art Manifesto\":\n\n\"Algorist\" is a term used for digital artists who create algorithmic art.\n\nAlgorists formally began correspondence and establishing their identity as artists following a panel titled \"Art and Algorithms\" at SIGGRAPH in 1995. The co-founders were Jean-Pierre Hébert and Roman Verostko. Hébert is credited with coining the term and its definition, which is in the form of his own algorithm:\n\nCellular automata can be used to generate artistic patterns with an appearance of randomness, or to modify images such as photographs by applying a transformation such as the stepping stone rule (to give an impressionist style) repeatedly until the desired artistic effect is achieved. Their use has also been explored in music.\n\nFractal art consists of varieties of computer-generated fractals with colouring chosen to give an attractive effect. Especially in the western world, it is not drawn or painted by hand. It is usually created indirectly with the assistance of fractal-generating software, iterating through three phases: setting parameters of appropriate fractal software; executing the possibly lengthy calculation; and evaluating the product. In some cases, other graphics programs are used to further modify the images produced. This is called post-processing. Non-fractal imagery may also be integrated into the artwork.\n\nGenetic or evolutionary art makes use of genetic algorithms to develop images iteratively, selecting at each \"generation\" according to a rule defined by the artist.\n\nAlgorithmic art is not only produced by computers. Wendy Chun explains:\n\nThe American artist, Jack Ox, has used algorithms to produce paintings that are visualizations of music without using a computer. Two examples are \"visual performances\" of extant scores, such as Anton Bruckner's Eighth Symphony and Kurt Schwitters' \"Ursonate\". Later, she and her collaborator, Dave Britton, created the 21st Century Virtual Color Organ that does use computer coding and algorithms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13910153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13910153", "title": "Alice B. Russell", "text": "Alice B. Russell\n\nAlice Burton Russell (June 30, 1892 – December 1984) was an African-American actress and the wife of director Oscar Micheaux, who appeared in six films directed by her husband. She was born in Maxton, North Carolina and died in New Rochelle, New York. She was mentioned often as A. Burton Russell in credits. In addition, she produced three films by her husband and worked as miscellaneous crew in two films.\n\nAs actress:\n\nAs producer:\n\nAs miscellaneous crew:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49292007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49292007", "title": "Almost There (film)", "text": "Almost There (film)\n\nAlmost There is a 2014 independent documentary film, produced by Kartemquin Films. It was directed by Aaron Wickenden and Dan Rybicky.\n\nThe film delivered a Central Pitch at the 2013 International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam Forum. It later premiered at DOC NYC and Sheffield Doc/Fest, followed by Official Selections at film festivals around the world. It has received coverage in \"The New York Times\", C\"hicago Tribune\", \"The Village Voice\", and many other outlets.\n\n\"Almost There\" was nominated for the 2016 Cinema Eye Honors Spotlight Award. It was recently acquired for distribution by Factory 25.\n\n\"Almost There\" follows elderly outsider artist Peter Anton. It explores how his life changes dramatically after he is discovered by filmmakers Wickenden and Rybicky and puts on his first art exhibition, the fallout from which forces him to leave his deteriorating childhood home.\n\n"}
{"id": "824199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=824199", "title": "Arts and entertainment in India", "text": "Arts and entertainment in India\n\nArts and entertainment in India have had their course shaped by a synthesis of indigenous and foreign influences that have consequently shaped the course of the arts of the rest of Asia, since ancient times. Arts refer to paintings, architecture, literature, music, dance, languages and cinema. In early India, most of the arts were derived Vedic influences. After the birth of contemporary Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism, and Sikhism arts flourished under the patronage of kings and emperors. The coming of Islam spawned a whole new era of Indian architecture and art. Finally the British brought their own Gothic and Roman influences and fused it with the Indian style. They have a culture infusion in their art.\n\nIndian architecture consists of production of the Indian subcontinent which encompasses a multitude of expressions over space and time, transformed by the forces of history considered unique to the sub-continent, sometimes destroying, but most of the time absorbing. The result is an evolving range of architectural production that nonetheless retains a certain amount of continuity across history.\n\nThe earliest production in the Indus Valley Civilization was characterised by well planned cities and houses where religion did not seem to play an active role. The Buddhist period is primarily represented by three important building types- the Chaitya Hall (place of worship), the Vihara (monastery) and the Stupa (hemispherical mound for worship/ memory) - exemplified by the extraordinary caves of Ajanta and Ellora and the monumental Sanchi Stupa. The Jaina temples are characterised by a richness of detail that can be seen in the Dilwara Temples in Mt.Abu. Early beginnings of Hindu temple architecture have been traced to the remains at Aihole and Pattadakal in present-day Karnataka, and have Vedic altars and late Vedic temples as described by Pāṇini as models. Later, as more differentiation took place, the Dravidian/ Southern style and or the Indo-Aryan/ Northern/ Nagara style of temple architecture emerged as dominant modes, epitomized in productions such as the magnificent Brihadeeswara Temple, Thanjavur, and the Sun Temple, Konark.\n\nWith the arrival of Islam, a new style of architecture known as Indo-Islamic architecture emerged combining traditional Indian and Islamic elements. The earliest examples include the Qutb complex, a series of monuments built by successive sultans of the Delhi Sultanate. The architecture of the Mughal Empire includes the Red Fort, Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, Humayun's tomb, Jama Masjid and Fatehpur Sikri.\n\nWith colonization, a new chapter began. Though the Dutch, Portuguese and the French made substantial forays, it was the English who had a lasting impact. The architecture of the colonial period varied from the beginning attempts at creating authority through classical prototypes to the later approach of producing a supposedly more responsive image through what is now termed Indo-Saracenic architecture- a mixture of Hindu, Islamic and Western elements.\n\nWith the introduction of Modern Architecture into India and later with Independence, the quest was more towards progress as a paradigm fuelled by Nehruvian visions. The planning of Chandigarh- a city most architects hate/love- by Le Corbusier was considered a step towards this. Later as modernism exhausted itself in the West and new directions were sought for, in India too there was a search for a more meaningful architecture rooted in the Indian context. This direction called Critical Regionalism is exemplified in the works of architects such as B. V. Doshi, Charles Correa, etc. Apart from this, the advent of globalisation and economic development since the 90s, has spawned an impressive collection of modern IT campuses and skyscrapers, and as economic reform accelerates, metropolitan areas are gaining futuristic skylines.\n\nIndian literature is generally acknowledged, but not wholly established, as the oldest in the world. India has 22 officially recognized languages, and a huge variety of literature has been produced in these languages over the years. In Indian literature, oral and written forms are both important. Hindu literary traditions dominate a large part of Indian culture. Apart from the Vedas which are a sacred form of knowledge, there are other works such as the Hindu epics \"Ramayana\" and \"Mahabharata\", treatises such as Vaastu Shastra in architecture and town planning, and Arthashastra in political science. Devotional Hindu drama, poetry and songs span the subcontinent. Among the best known are the works of Kalidasa (writer of the famed Sanskrit play Shakuntala) and Tulsidas (who wrote an epic Hindi poem based on the Ramayana, called Raamcharitmaanas).\n\nTamil literature has been in existence for more than 2500 years. Tolkaappiyam has been credited as its oldest work, whereas the exact origins of Thirukkural is unknown. The golden age of Tamil literature was during the Sangam period, roughly 1800 years ago. The classic works of this period are Cilappatikaram, Manimekalai, and Sivakasinthamani. Tamil literature is known for its secular traditions, although its authors had strong religious beliefs. Thirukkural is considered to be the greatest of Tamil works. Kannada literature is probably the third oldest in Indian literature next to Sanskrit literature and Tamil literature. The earliest reported work in Kannada literature dates back to the fifth century. The first available literary in Kannada is Kavirajamarga, written in the eighth century by Amoghavarsha Nrpatunga. Hindi literature started as religious and philosophical poetry in medieval periods in dialects like Avadhi and Brij. The most famous figures from this period are Kabir and Tulsidas. In modern times, the \"Khadi\" dialect became more prominent and a variety of literature was produced in Sanskrit.\n\nThe most renowned Bengali writer is Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore, who received the Nobel Prize for Literature. In the last century, several Indian writers have distinguished themselves not only in traditional Indian languages but also in English. India's only native-born Nobel laureate in literature was the Bengali writer Rabindranath Tagore, but VS Naipaul, a diaspora Indian novelist born in Trinidad, also won the Nobel in 2001. Other major writers who are either Indian or of Indian origin and derive much inspiration from Indian themes are R. K. Narayan, Vikram Seth, Salman Rushdie, Arundhati Roy, Raja Rao, Amitav Ghosh, Vikram Chandra, Mukul Kesavan, Shashi Tharoor, Nayantara Sehgal, Anita Desai, Ashok Banker, Shashi Deshpande, Jhumpa Lahiri, and Bharati Mukherjee.\n\nIndian music includes multiple varieties of folk, popular, pop, and classical music. India's classical music tradition, including Carnatic and Hindustani music, has a history spanning millennia and, developed over several eras, remains fundamental to the lives of Indians today as sources of religious inspiration, cultural expression and pure entertainment. India is made up of several dozen ethnic groups, speaking their own languages and dialects. Alongside distinctly subcontinental forms there are major influences from Persian, Arab and British music. Indian genres like filmi and bhangra have become popular throughout the United Kingdom, South and East Asia, and around the world.\n\nIndian stars now sell records in many countries, while world music fans listen to the roots music of India's diverse nations. American soul, rock and hip hop music have also made a large impact, primarily on Indian pop and filmi music. Other highly popular forms are ghazal, qawwali, thumri, dhrupad, dadra, bhajan, kirtan, shabad, and gurbani.\n\nFilmi music is often said to have begun in 1931, with the release of Ardeshir M. Irani's Alam Ara and its popular soundtrack. In the earliest years of the Indian cinema, filming was generally Indian (classical and folk) in inspiration, with some Western elements. Over the years, the Western elements have increased, but without completely destroying the Indian flavour. Most of the Indian movies are musicals and feature elaborate song and dance numbers. There is constant work for pop music composers — or music directors, to use the Indian term. Movie soundtracks are released as tapes and CDs, sometimes even before the movie is released.\n\nIndian classical dance is performed in different styles. Its theory can be traced back to the Natya Shastra of Bharata Muni, a sage from Tamil Nadu (400 BC). The Natya Shastra is the most important ancient treatise on classical Indian dance. It is also called the fifth Veda in reference to the foundation of Hindu religion and philosophy, from which sprang the related South Indian musical tradition of Carnatic music. Its various current forms include Bharatanatyam, Odissi, Manipuri, Kathakali, Kuchipudi, Mohiniaattam, Kathak and Sattriya.\n\nBharatanatyam is a classical dance form originating in Tamil Nadu. It is thought to have been created by Bharata Muni. In ancient times Bharatanatyam was performed by mandir (Hindu temple) Devadasis. Many of the ancient sculptures in Hindu temples are based on Bharatanatyam dance postures karanas.\n\nOdissi is one of the oldest surviving forms of dance, with depictions of Odissi dancing dating back as far as the 1st century BC. Like other forms of Indian classical dance, the Odissi style traces its origins back to antiquity. Dancers are found depicted in bas-relief in the hills of Udaygiri (near Bhubaneswar) dating back to the 1st century BC. The Natya Shastra speaks of the dance from this region and refers to it as Odra-Magadhi.\n\nKathakali (\"katha\" for story, \"kali\" for performance or play) is a form of dance-drama. It originated in the South Indian state of Kerala over 500 years ago. It is a spectacular combination of drama, dance, music and ritual. Characters with vividly painted faces and elaborate costumes re-enact stories from the Hindu epics, Mahabharata and Ramayana.\n\nKuchipudi is a classical dance form from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, a state of South India. Kuchipudi is the name of a small village in the Divi Taluq of Krishna district that borders the Bay of Bengal and with resident Brahmins practising this traditional dance form, it acquired the present name.\nMohiniaattam is a traditional dance from the South Indian state of Kerala. Mohini is an Apsaras in the Hindu mythology and aattam in Malayalam means dance. So Mohiniaattam essentially means \"dance of the enchantress\". The theme of Mohiniaattam is love and devotion to god. The costume worn by the dancers are typically white coloured kasavu saree with golden borders.\n\nThe Kathak dance form arose from the Vaishnava devotees dancing to the episodes from Krishna's life. Originally a Northern Indian temple dance, it was transformed to a court dance in the Mughal era. The new Muslim influence brought with it certain changes to the dance form: what had been a largely devotional practice now became more a courtly entertainment.\n\nThe Sattriya dance is believed to be a creation of the great Vaishnavite (bhakti) guru Srimanta Sankardeva considered the lead architect of Assamese literature and culture. He created this magnificent Sattriya dance to accompany the \"Ankiya Naat\" (a form of Assamese one-act play, another creation of Sankardeva) which was usually performed in \"Satras\" (Assamese monasteries). Since the dance developed and grew within the \"Satras\", it is named after these religious institutions.\n\nFolk dances are performed for every possible occasion, to celebrate the arrival of seasons, birth of a child, a wedding and festivals. The dances are very focused on gestures, postures, and expressions. The dances burst with verve and vitality. Men and women perform some dances exclusively, while in some performances men and women dance together. On most occasions artists sing the main lyrics and are accompanied by instruments. Each form of dance has a specific costume. Most costumes are flamboyant with extensive jewels.\n\nBhangra is a form of music and dance that originated in the Punjab region of India. Bhangra dance began as a folk dance conducted by Punjabi farmers to celebrate the coming of Vaisakhi, a sikh festival. The specific moves reflect the manner in which villagers farmed their land. This musical art further became synthesized after the partition of India, when refugees from different parts of the Punjab shared their folk dances with individuals who resided in the regions they settled in. This hybrid dance became Bhangra. The dance started from just one move and evolved later on. It has been popularized by Punjabi artists from the Sikh communities, with which it is now commonly associated.[1] Today, Bhangra dance survives in different forms and styles all over the globe – including pop music, film soundtracks, collegiate competitions and even talent shows.\n\nThirayattam is a ritual performing dance of south malabar region (kozhikode and malappuram Dt:) in Kerala state.In Malayalam language, the word \"Thirayattam\" refers to a 'colourful dance' This vibrant Ethnic art form blend of dance,instrumental music, drama, facial and body makeup, martial art and ritualistic Function. Thirayattam enacted in courtyards of sacred groves and village shrines, during Thirayattam festival.\n\n first sculptures in India date back to the Indus Valley civilization, where stone and bronze carvings have been discovered. This is one of the earliest instances of sculpture in the world. Later, as Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism developed further, India produced some of the most intricate bronzes in the world, as well as unriveled temple carvings. Some huge shrines, such as the one at Ellora were not actually constructed using blocks, but instead carved out of solid rock, making them perhaps the largest and most intricate sculptures in the world.\n\nDuring the 2nd to 1st century BCE in far northern India, in what is now southern Afghanistan and northern Pakistan, sculptures became more explicit, representing episodes of the Buddha's life and teachings. Although India had a long sculptural tradition and a mastery of rich iconography, the Buddha was never represented in human form before this time, but only through some of his symbols. This may be because Gandharan Buddhist sculpture in modern Afghanistan displays Greek and Persian artistic influence. Artistically, the Gandharan school of sculpture is said to have contributed wavy hair, drapery covering both shoulders, shoes and sandals, acanthus leaf decorations, etc.\n\nThe pink sandstone sculptures of Mathura evolved during the Gupta period (4th to 6th century) to reach a very high fineness of execution and delicacy in the modeling. Newer sculptures in Afghanistan, in stucco, schist or clay, display very strong blending of Indian post-Gupta mannerism and Classical influence, Hellenistic or possibly even Greco-Roman. Meanwhile, elsewhere in India, less anatomically accurate styles of human representation evolved, leading to the classical art that the world is now familiar with, and contributing to Buddhist and Hindu sculpture throughout Asia. If you would like more information on this topic please let us recommend.\n\nThe earliest Indian paintings were the rock paintings of pre-historic times, the petroglyphs as found in places like Rock Shelters of Bhimbetka, and some of them are older than 5500 BC. Such works continued and after several millennia, in the 7th century, carved pillars of Ellora, Maharashtra state present an example of Indian paintings, and the colors, mostly various shades of red and orange, were derived from minerals. Thereafter, frescoes of Ajanta and Ellora caves appeared. India's Buddhist literature is replete with examples of texts which describe that palaces of kings and aristocratic class were embellished with paintings, but they have not survived. But, it is believed that some form of art painting was practiced in that time.\n\nIndian Art was given a new lease of life by the British in early 19th century when the new government required painters to document Indian life and times. The English School paintings, as these new art were called had seen the emergence of India's greatest artists of all times Raja Ravi Verma. Other important artists of the Colonial period include Jamini Roy, Amrita Shergil, Ramkinker Baij and Rabindranath Tagore. After independence, Indian art became more diverse and artists like Maqbool Fida Hussain, Francis Newton Souza, Subodh Gupta, Devajyoti Ray, Sudip Roy, Paresh Maity and Bose Krishnamachari earned international recognition.\n\nIndia is a major regional center for cinema. The Indian film industry is the second largest in the world (1200 movies released in the year 2002). Each of the larger jrods supports its own film industry: Hindi, Bengali, Kannada, Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam. The Hindi/Urdu film industry, based in Mumbai, formerly \"Bombay\", is called Bollywood (a melding of Hollywood and Bombay). Similar neologisms have been coined for the Kannada (Karnataka State) film industry (Sandalwood) based on Karnataka being known for Sandalwood, Tamil film industry (Kollywood, from the Kodambakkam district of Chennai) and the Telugu film industry (Tollywood). Tollygunge is a metonym for the Bengali film industry, long centered in the Tollygunge district of Kolkata. The Bengali language industry is notable as having nurtured the director Satyajit Ray, an internationally renowned filmmaker and a winner of many awards, among them the yo yorat Ratna (India's highest civilian award), the Légion d'honneur (France), and the Lifetime achievement Academy Award. The Bollywood industry is usually the largest in terms of films produced and box office receipts, just as Urdu/Hindi speakers outnumber speakers of other Indian languages within India. (Tollywood is close on Bollywood's heels, and sometimes will turn out more films in a year.)\n\nRadio broadcasting was, until recently a government monopoly under the Directorate General of All India Radio—established in 1936 and since 1957 also known as Akashvani—a government-owned, semicommercial operation of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. From only six stations at the time of independence, All India Radio's network had expanded by the mid-1990s to 146 AM stations plus a National Channel, the Integrated North-East Service (aimed at tribal groups in northeast India), and the External Service. There are five regional headquarters for All India Radio: the North Zone in New Delhi; the North-East Zone in Guwahati, Assam; the East Zone in Calcutta; the West Zone in Bombay; and the South Zone in Madras. All India Radio covers 99.37% of India's populace.\n\nThe government-owned network provides both national and local programs in Hindi, English, and sixteen regional languages. Commercial services, which were inaugurated in 1957, are provided by Vividh Bharati Service, headquartered in Mumbai. Vividh Bharati, which accepts advertisements, broadcasts from thirty-one AM and FM stations in the mid-1990s.\n\nIndia has an extensive network of medium wave and shortwave stations. In 1994 there were eighty-five FM stations and seventy-three shortwave stations that covered the entire country. The broadcasting equipment is mostly Indian made and reaches special audiences, such as farmers needing agroclimatic, plant protection, and other agriculture-related information. The number of radio receivers increased almost fivefold between 1970 and 1994, from around 14 million to nearly 65 million. Most radios are also produced within India.\n\nThe foreign broadcast service is a function of the External Services Division of All India Radio. In 1994 seventy hours of news, features, and entertainment programs were broadcast daily in twenty-five languages using thirty-two shortwave transmitters. The principal target audiences are listeners in neighbouring countries and the large overseas Indian community.\n\nSatellite Radio was introduced to the Indian market in 2000 by WorldSpace, a Washington-DC based company. Currently WorldSpace beams 30 channels comprising music, news, and regional channels, a subscriber in India pays 1,200 per annum. In addition, some premium channels are available at an extra cost. This service requires special receivers which are often subsidized by world space.\n\nRecently The Department of Space (DoS) indicated it is exploring the possibility of setting up a multi-media satellite platform that would include satellite radio, video and data channels.\n\nTelevision service is available throughout the country. Doordarshan is a government-owned broadcaster established in 1959 and a part of All India Radio until 1976. It operates of one national network and seven regional networks. In 1992 there were sixty-three high-power television transmitters, 369 medium-power transmitters, seventy-six low-power transmitters, and twenty-three transposers. Regular satellite transmissions began in 1982 (the same year colour transmission began).\nBy 1994 some 6 million people were receiving television broadcasts via satellite, and the number was expected to increase rapidly throughout the rest of the decade. Cable television was even more prolific, with an estimated 12 to 15 million subscribers in 1994. Besides Doordarshan, Zee TV—an independent station broadcasting from Mumbai since 1992—uses satellite transmissions. In fact, because Doordarshan is the only network that is permitted to broadcast television signals domestically, Zee TV and other entrepreneurs broadcast their Indian-made videotapes via foreign transmitters. Other networks joining the fray are Cable News Network (1990); Asia Television Network (1991); Hong Kong-based Star TV (1991); Jain TV, near Bombay (1994); EL TV, a spin-off of Zee TV in Bombay (1994); HTV, an affiliate of the Hindustan Times in New Delhi (1994); and Sun TV, a Tamil language service in Chennai (1994). In a communications breakthrough in July 1995, Doordarshan agreed, for a US$1.5 million annual fee and 50 percent of advertising revenue when it exceeds US$1.5 million, to allow CNN to broadcast twenty-four hours a day via an Indian satellite. regional, and local service. The number of television sets increased from around 500,000 in 1976 to 9 million in early 1987 and to around 47 million in 1994; increases are expected to continue at around 6 million sets per year. More than 75 percent of television sets were black and white models in 1992, but the proportion of colour sets is increasing annually. Most television sets are produced in India.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56573201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56573201", "title": "CMC Music Awards", "text": "CMC Music Awards\n\nCMC Music Awards is an Australian music awards ceremony held annually since 2011. They are provided by the Country Music Channel (CMC), which is owned by Foxtel, and are determined by fan votes. From 2015 the ceremonies were staged in the Brisbane to Gold Coast region. Since 2016 there are three international categories, where Australians residing abroad are acknowledged.\n\n\nNot all categories were used in each year.\n\nFrom 2007 to 2010, CMC awarded only one category, Oz Artist of the Year; Adam Brand won the trophy four years in a row. In March 2011 the ceremony was expanded to four awards – all fan voted.\n\nThe first ceremony was held at the Hope Estate Winery, Hunter Valley, on 4 March 2011.\n\nThe second ceremony was held at the Hope Estate Winery, Hunter Valley on 16 March 2012 with Jay and Mark O'Shea hosting.\n\nThe third ceremony was held at the Hope Estate Winery, Hunter Valley on 15 March 2013.\n\nThe fourth ceremony was held at the Hope Estate Winery, Hunter Valley on 14 March 2014 with the McClymonts hosting.\n\nThe fifth ceremony was held at Brisbane's QPAC on 12 March 2015 with Morgan Evans hosting.\n\nThe sixth ceremony was held at Brisbane's QPAC on 10 March 2016 with Morgan Evans and Kelsea Ballerini hosting.\n\nThe seventh ceremony was held on 23 March 2017 on the Gold Coast with Morgan Evans hosting.\n\nThe eighth ceremony was held on 15 March 2018 on the Gold Coast with the McClymonts hosting.\n"}
{"id": "26790289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26790289", "title": "Catalogue of Works in Refutation of Methodism", "text": "Catalogue of Works in Refutation of Methodism\n\nCatalogue of Works in Refutation of Methodism: from its Origin in 1729, to the Present Time (often referred to as Catalogue of Works in Refutation of Methodism) is the title of an antiquarian bibliography or catalogue first published in America in 1846 by the 19th century author Curtis H. Cavender, who compiled the work under the anagrammatic pen name of H.C. Decanver.\n\nA reference work of religious criticism, the \"Catalogue\" is Decanver's debut publication, and his only written work. It is notable as one of the most prominent writings critical of Methodist doctrine ever written, and remains the only compilation of books written from a primarily anti-Methodist perspective.\n\nAn otherwise virtually unknown individual, the only evidence which suggests that the author Decanver ever existed was the publication of his \"Catalogue\" in 1846. He was self-evidently opposed to the doctrines of Methodism, a branch of Protestant Christianity which emerged from the teachings of John Wesley in 18th century England, and in 1846 compiled the catalogue under the full title of Catalogue of Works in Refutation of Methodism: from its Origin in 1729, to the Present Time: of Those by Methodist Authors on Lay-Representation, Methodist Episcopacy, Etc., Etc., and of the Political Pamphlets Relating to Wesley's \"Calm Address to Our American Colonies\". The pseudonym \"H.C. Decanver\" is an anagram of the author's actual name, Curtis H. Cavender.\n\nThe book was first published in both hardback and paperback by the presently-defunct John Penington publishing company, once located on 10 South Fifth Street in eastern Philadelphia. The original printings were attributed to an individual \"C. Sherman, printer\" from 19 St. James Street in the same city.\n\nThere are several editions of the book, some including minor changes deviating from former editions.\n\nThe catalogue as a whole lists over 100 individual documents, books, pamphlets and articles — many of which today are regarded as historical texts. As a whole the works listed assumedly refute certain doctrines of Methodist thought, although – if somewhat ironically – many of them are by Methodist authors themselves.\n\nThe book is divided into two sections, the first being a preface entitled either \"Prefatory Remarks\" or \"Preliminary Remarks\", depending upon the edition of the book (the first edition of the work was printed containing the latter title), and the second being the catalogue proper – in all editions simply deemed \"Catalogue\". The Catalogue section is itself divided further, the first group of works representing those called \"Anti-Methodistical\", the second group listed under \"Methodist Authors\" (being by Methodist authors themselves), the third called \"Miscellaneous\", and the last group listed as \"Political\".\n\n"}
{"id": "411635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=411635", "title": "Charles Gleyre", "text": "Charles Gleyre\n\nMarc Gabriel Charles Gleyre (2 May 1806 – 5 May 1874), was a Swiss artist who was a resident in France from an early age. He took over the studio of Paul Delaroche in 1843 and taught a number of younger artists who became prominent, including Claude Monet, Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Alfred Sisley, James Abbott McNeill Whistler, Auguste Toulmouche, Louis-Frederic Schützenberger, and Henry-Lionel Brioux.\n\nGleyre was born in Chevilly, near Lausanne. His parents died when he was eight or nine years old, and he was brought up by an uncle in Lyon, France, who sent him to the city's industrial school. He began his formal artistic education in Lyon under Bonnefond, before moving to Paris, where he enrolled at the École des Beaux-Arts under Hersent. He also attended the Academie Suisse and studied watercolour technique in the studio of Richard Parkes Bonington. He then went to Italy, where he became acquainted with Horace Vernet and Louis Léopold Robert. \n\nIt was through Vernet's recommendation that he was chosen by the American traveller John Lowell Jr. to accompany him on his journeys round the eastern Mediterranean, recording the scenes and ethnographic subjects they met with. They left Italy in spring 1834 and visited Greece, Turkey and Egypt, where they remained together until November 1835, when Lowell left for India. Gleyre continued his travels around Egypt and Syria, not returning to France until 1838. He returned to Lyons in shattered health, having been attacked with ophthalmia, or inflammation of the eye, in Cairo, and struck down by fever in Lebanon. \n\nOn his recovery he proceeded to Paris, and, establishing a modest studio in the rue de Université, began carefully to work out the ideas which had been slowly shaping themselves in his mind. Mention is made of two decorative panels \"Diana leaving the Bath\", and a \"Young Nubian\" as almost the first fruits of his genius; but these did not attract public attention until much later, and the painting by which he practically opened his artistic career was the \"Apocalyptic Vision of St John\", sent to the Salon of 1840.This was followed in 1843 by \"Evening\", which received a medal of the second class, and afterwards became widely popular under the title \"Lost Illusions\". It depicts a poet seated on the bank of a river, with his head drooping and a wearied posture, letting his lyre slip from a careless hand, and gazing sadly at a bright company of maidens whose song is slowly dying from his ear as their boat is borne slowly from his sight.\n\nIn spite of the success of these first ventures, Gleyre retired from public competition, and spent the rest of his life in quiet devotion to his artistic ideals, neither seeking the easy applause of the crowd, nor turning his art into a means of aggrandizement and wealth. After 1845, when he exhibited the \"Separation of the Apostles\", he contributed nothing to the Salon except the \"Dance of the Bacchantes\" in 1849. Yet he worked steadily and was productive. He had an \"infinite capacity of taking pains\", and when asked by what method he attained to such marvelous perfection of workmanship, he would reply, \"En y pensant toujours\". Many years often intervened between the first conception of a piece and its embodiment, and years not infrequently between the first and the final stage of the embodiment itself. A landscape was apparently finished; even his fellow artists would consider it done; Gleyre alone was conscious that he had not \"found his sky\".\n\nGleyre became influential as a teacher, taking over the studio of studio of Paul Delaroche – then the leading private teaching atelier in Paris – in 1843. His students included Jean-Léon Gérôme, Jean-Louis Hamon, Auguste Toulmouche, Whistler and several of the Impressionists: Monet, Renoir, Sisley, and Bazille. He did not charge his students a fee, although he expected them to contribute towards the rent and the payment of models. They were also given a say in the running of the school.\n\nThough he lived in almost complete retirement from public life, he took a keen interest in politics, and was a voracious reader of political journals. For a time, under Louis Philippe, his studio had been the rendezvous of a sort of liberal club. To the last—amid all the disasters that befell his country—he was hopeful of the future, \"la raison finira bien par avoir raison\". It was while on a visit to the Retrospective Exhibition, opened on behalf of the exiles from Alsace and Lorraine, that he died suddenly on 5 May 1874. He had never married.\n\nHe left unfinished the \"Earthly Paradise\", a picture, which Taine described as \"a dream of innocence, of happiness and of beauty—Adam and Eve standing in the sublime and joyous landscape of a paradise enclosed in mountains\", a worthy counterpart to the \"Evening\". His other works include \"Deluge\", which represents two angels speeding above the desolate earth from which the destroying waters have just begun to retire, leaving visible behind them the ruin they have wrought; the \"Battle of the Lemanus\", a piece of elaborate design, crowded but not encumbered with figures, and giving fine expression to the movements of the various bands of combatants and fugitives; the \"Prodigal Son\", in which the artist has ventured to add to the parable the new element of mother's love, greeting the repentant youth with a welcome that shows that the mother's heart thinks less of the repentance than of the return; \"Ruth and Boaz\"; \"Ulysses and Nausicaa\"; \"Hercules at the Feet of Omphale\"; the \"Young Athenian,\" or, as it is popularly called, \"Sappho\"; \"Minerva and the Nymphs\"; \"Venus and Adonis\"; \"Daphnis and Chloë\"; and \"Love and the Parcae\". He also left a considerable number of drawings and watercolours, and a number of portraits, among which is the sad face of Heinrich Heine, engraved in the \"Revue des deux mondes\" for April 1852. In Clement's catalogue of his works there are 683 entries, including sketches and studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42811726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42811726", "title": "Claire van Kampen", "text": "Claire van Kampen\n\nClaire Louise van Kampen (born November 9 1953) is an English director, composer and playwright. She composed the music for Mark Rylance's 1989 performance as Hamlet and shared the 2007 Sam Wanamaker Award with him. Her composing credits include music for productions of the plays \"Days and Nights\" and \"Boeing-Boeing\".\n\nIn 2015, she was historical music advisor and arranger of Tudor music on the BBC TV series \"Wolf Hall\".\n\nVan Kampen was born in Marylebone, London, England. She originally trained as a pianist at the Royal College of Music for five years, becoming the recipient of a John Land scholarship. As a girl she met David Munrow, a recorder player and pioneer of the early-music scene in England, and became interested in Renaissance music.\n\nStudying music theory with Dr Ruth Gipps, she also specialised in the performance of 20th century music, premiering many works by today's leading composers.\n\nIn 1986, she joined the Royal Shakespeare Company, and the Royal National Theatre, the first female musical director with both companies. In 1990, she co-founded the theatre company Phoebus Cart with her husband Mark Rylance.\n\nSince the opening of the Shakespeare's Globe Theatre in 1997, van Kampen has been the Director of Theatre Music, creating both period and contemporary music for 30 of the Globe's productions – including the 'jazz' \"Macbeth\" in 2001, and \"The Golden Ass\" in 2002, which contained a 30-minute opera \"Cupid and Psyche\".\n\nIn spring 2007, she received the Vero Nihil Verius award for Distinguished Achievement in the Arts, conferred upon her by Concordia University in Oregon, United States. Together with Mark Rylance and Jenny Tiramani, she received the 2007 Sam Wanamaker Award for the founding work during the opening ten years at Shakespeare's Globe Theatre.\n\n\"Farinelli and the King\" is van Kampen's historical play about the relationship between Farinelli, the castrato, and the Spanish King Philippe V, first performed at Sam Wanamaker Playhouse in February and March 2015, and at the Duke of York's Theatre in the West End, London from September to December 2015, with Mark Rylance as Philippe V. it received six Olivier Award nominations including Best Play. In 2016 she directed Mark Rylance in Nice Fish at the St. Ann's Warehouse, New York. The production subsequently transferred to the Harold Pinter Theatre\n\nVan Kampen was previously married to an architect, Chris van Kampen, with whom she had two daughters, the actress Juliet Rylance and the late filmmaker Nataasha van Kampen. She met Mark Rylance in 1987, and they married in Oxfordshire on 21 December 1989.\n\nHer daughter Nataasha died of a suspected brain haemorrhage on a flight from New York in July 2012 at the age of 28.\n\n"}
{"id": "7076358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7076358", "title": "Condolence book", "text": "Condolence book\n\nA condolence book or book of condolence is a book in which people may record their condolences after a death or great tragedy.\n\nAfter the death of a leading figure or great disaster, condolence books are placed in public places for members of the general public to use. When closed, the books are given to the relatives of the deceased or archived. Reviewing a condolence book may help grieving relatives come to terms with the reality of their loss.\n\nAfter especially notable deaths, official records of the condolences may be compiled and reprinted. For example, after the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, the Government Printing Office published a leather-bound, gilt-edged collection of official condolences in 1867.\n\nDigital condolence books are now placed on the Internet so people may write their thoughts on-line.\n\n"}
{"id": "18604074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18604074", "title": "Conductors Without Borders", "text": "Conductors Without Borders\n\nConductors Without Borders (CWB), is an international development programme for conductors and choral leaders who lack access to professional education, mentorship or guidance. The programme shall create insightful leadership committed to the social values of choral singing.\n\nThe programme was founded in 2007, hosted and supported by the International Federation for Choral Music (IFCM) and under the patronage of the composer Alberto Grau in Venezuela. It engages conductors who want to assist with the training of choral conductors and the improvement of choral singing in developing countries and regions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4915589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4915589", "title": "Contemporary (magazine)", "text": "Contemporary (magazine)\n\nContemporary was a monthly visual arts magazine based in London. Founded and edited as \"The Green Book\" by Keith Spencer as a quarterly publication, it re-emerged under the title \"Contemporary Art\" in 1993. On the death of Spencer, the title was acquired by Gordon and Breach Publishing (G+B), and produced four issues under the editorship of Lynne Green, Spencer's deputy.\n\nThe magazine finally found its feet as a committed contemporary art publication in 1996 under the editorial control of Keith Patrick and with the change of title to Contemporary Visual Arts, later abbreviated to CVA. During this period the magazine achieved sales of nearly 20,000, including 5,000 subscribers, with distribution mainly in the UK, Europe, the States and Australia. Its base at this time was the former Peek Freans biscuit factory in Bermondsey, London, the site of several key early exhibitions of the YBA generation.\n\nWith the collapse of the G+B parent company in 2001, the title was acquired by and reappeared as \"Contemporary\" in January 2002 although no longer with an exclusive commitment to the visual arts. In 2003 a sister publication, \"Contemporary 21\", was launched. Initially media-focused, with special issues dedicated to painting, sculpture, video art and performance, it would later embrace a wider range of topics, from art collecting to the relationship between visual art and architecture. In 2006 \"Contemporary\" published its first Annual, featuring 50 emerging artists nominated by its network of world correspondents. In 2008 the magazine relocated to Panama City, where it ceased publication after failing in an attempt to start a Spanish-language edition. \n\nIn May 2009, it was reported that the publisher, Brian Muller, had not paid the magazine's contributing writers for over a year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18537639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18537639", "title": "De remediis utriusque fortunae", "text": "De remediis utriusque fortunae\n\nDe remediis utriusque fortunae is a collection of 254 Latin dialogues written by the humanist Francesco Petrarca (1304-1374), commonly known as Petrarch.\n\nThe dialogues, completed towards the end of Petrarch's life, are treasure-chests of wisdom and humour which have not lost their relevance despite the passing of six centuries. They display remarkably lucid ideas that are cogently expressed. Drawing on classical sources, Petrarch expounded on refinement in taste and intellect, on finesse and propriety in speech and style.\n\nThe writing is a bouquet of moral philosophy, set out to show how thought and deed can generate happiness on the one hand, or sorrow and disillusionment on the other. In a recurring theme throughout the dialogues, Petrarch advises humility in prosperity and fortitude in adversity.\n\nThe 254 woodcut illustrations by the anonymous Master of Petrarch for the 1532 German edition are considered masterpieces of the German Renaissance.\n\nIn 1579 the dialogues were translated into English by the Elizabethan physician Thomas Twyne (1543–1613) as \"Phisicke Against Fortune\", and by Susannah Dobson in 1791 as \"Petrarch's View of Human Life\".\n\n"}
{"id": "55420109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55420109", "title": "Eva Frankfurther", "text": "Eva Frankfurther\n\nEva Frankfurther (10 February 1930-January 1959) was a German-born British artist, notable for depicting the immigrant communities of the East End of London in the 1950s.\n\nFrankfurther was born in the Dahlem district of Berlin to a Jewish family. Her father, Paul, was a businessman while her mother, Henriette, was an economics graduate. Henriette died of cancer 18 months after Eva was born and her father remarried in 1934. The family fled to Britain in 1939 to avoid persecution under Nazism. The children, Eva and her two siblings, left Berlin six months before their parents and spent some time in Haslemere, being looked after by German refugee teachers, before their parents arrived in England during August 1939. The family rented a flat in Belsize Park Gardens but Frankfurther and her sister were evacuated to Hertfordshire in World War II to avoid the bombing of London.\n\nAfter the War, Frankfurther enrolled in Saint Martin's School of Art. There she studied life drawing under Roland Vivian Pitchforth and was held in great esteem by her fellow students, who included Leon Kossoff and Frank Auerbach. As a student, Frankfurther had spent some summers in America. After graduating in 1951, she visited Italy, where she painted numerous portraits of street beggars and pilgrims, and then, briefly, Paris. Returning to England, Frankfurther took herself away from the central London art scene, and her family home, and moved to the East End of the city. She lived in a basement flat in Whitechapel and took an evening job, working as a counter-hand and dish-washer at the J. Lyons and Co. Corner House restaurant in Piccadilly. This allowed her time to paint during the day. Frankfurther spent five years working at the Corner House and painted several portraits of her fellow workers. Frankfurther also painted portraits of the local East End population. As well as depicting members of the long established Jewish East End community, she also sketched and painted people from the Pakistani, West Indian and Irish communities then arriving in the area. She left the Corner House in 1956 and took a job at the Tate & Lyle sugar refinery at Victoria Dock. She left that job in 1957 and lived in Israel for several months. She returned to London in 1959 where, suffering from depression, she took her own life.\n\nDuring her life, Frankfurther only appears to have exhibited locally in the East End, mainly at the Whitechapel Gallery, though she did feature in a group exhibition at the Ben Uri Gallery in 1956. The same gallery included examples of her work in their 2014 \"Refiguring the 50s\" exhibition and held a one-person show of her work in 2017.\n\nPosthumous exhibitions:\n"}
{"id": "12394910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12394910", "title": "Fellowship of Australian Writers", "text": "Fellowship of Australian Writers\n\nThe Fellowship of Australian Writers, also known as FAW, was established in Sydney in 1928. Its aim is to bring writers together and promote their interests. It covers such areas as government policy, literary awards, professional advice, representation of writers' rights and the promotion of literature.\n\nThe various states and branches hold meetings and lectures, publish newsletters and anthologies, and run literary competitions and other regular or occasional events such as writers weeks and literary festivals.\n\nVarious claims have been made about its origin, but it seems that poet, Mary Gilmore, was encouraged by Roderic Quinn, and helped by Lucy Cassidy (wife of poet R.J. Cassidy), to hold a meeting of writers, at which a president, John Le Gay Brereton was elected.\n\nIt was initially a Sydney-based organisation, but gradually spread to other states, with Victoria and Western Australia being the first. In 1955 a federal council was created, with the national president rotating between the state presidents.\n\nEarly prominent members include: in New South Wales, Flora Eldershaw, Marjorie Barnard, Frank Dalby Davison, Dymphna Cusack, Miles Franklin and T. Inglis Moore; in Victoria, Nettie Palmer; and in Western Australia, Paul Buddee, Henrietta Drake-Brockman and Katharine Susannah Prichard.\n\nThe FAW was, with ex-Prime Minister Jim Scullin, largely responsible for a trebling of the Commonwealth Literary Fund's budget in 1939.\n\nIn 1935 the Fellowship organised an Authors' Week to, in the words of their press release, \"encourage the development of our national literature, especially by bringing the work of our authors before the general public and schools\". The week took place from 8 to 13 April and was held at Farmers' Blaxland Galleries. Events included personal appearances by authors, display of Australian books, dramatisations from Australian works, lectures by writers, radio broadcasts and an authors' ball.\n\nThe Week was prompted by a longstanding desire of the Fellowship to strengthen the place of Australian literature in Australian society, and it was believed that a way to do this was to encourage a closer dialogue between authors and their audience. The week was preceded by significant promotion and communication to the community primarily through newspapers and magazines. An editorial written in \"The Telegraph\" during the week commented on the popularity of Ion Idriess and suggested that:\n\nTherein is cause to hope that ere long the appreciation for Australian writings will grow and widen to embrace the works of many others who, with a growing confidence in ultimate success, are continually and obscurely working to give Australians a literature which they may call their own.\n\nThe events of the week were mostly held during the day and hence primarily reached, or in some cases specifically targeted at, women, children and teachers. Indeed, it was generally accepted that women formed the bulk of the readership. Norman Lindsay, for example, wrote that \"My personal opinion is that the average woman reads much better stuff than the average man\". In his Authors' Week talk, Frank Dalby Davison said that \"many people preferred yelling themselves hoarse at a test match or racecourse to reading a book by a cultured author\".\n\nOverall, the Week was deemed a success, with Marjorie Barnard writing that they'd received \"a good deal of publicity\" and were \"pretty satisfied with the effort\".\n\nThe national, state and regional offices of the FAW offer a large number of literary competitions and awards. Listed here are some of the major ones. More awards can be found on the webpages of the individual offices (See under External Links below).\n\n\nPresidents of the Fellowship of Australian Writers include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6518264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6518264", "title": "Fiorucci", "text": "Fiorucci\n\nFiorucci is an Italian fashion label founded by Elio Fiorucci in 1967. The first shop exposed Milan to the styles of Swinging London and American classics such as the T-shirt and jeans. By the late 1970s and early 1980s this would be reversed and the New York store would become famous for the fashions it introduced to the United States. Known as the \"daytime Studio 54\", it attracted trendsetters from Andy Warhol to a young Madonna.\n\nAs a leader in the globalisation of fashion, Fiorucci would scour the globe for underground trends introducing a newly affluent mass market to styles such as thongs from Brazil and Afghan coats. The label popularised camouflage prints and leopard-skin prints before creating the designer jean market with the invention of stretch jeans. The iconic advertising usually featured a woman's buttocks in skin-tight denim, or in one case obscured by pink fluffy handcuffs, whilst the company logo is two cheeky angels modelled after Raphael's cherubs. However, mismanagement of the company led to receivership in 1989 and the brand was subsequently dogged by legal battles over the trademarks. Several relaunches failed to make much impact.\n\nElio Fiorucci was found dead in his Milan home on July 20, 2015, at the age of 80. A month before his death, the brand was sold to Janie and Stephen Schaffer, who had founded the high street chain Knickerbox together in 1986. Following an on-line Fiorucci launch and campaign featuring Georgia May Jagger, a 5,000 sq ft destination store opened on Brewer Street in London's Soho in September 2017 during London Fashion Week. The launch party saw the Theo Adams Company transform L’Escargot, London’s oldest French restaurant, into a world of disco, hedonism and horror, and was described by WWD as \"the kind of party that many brands would kill for: achingly cool, outrageously oversubscribed and lots of fun.\" The following month Rizzoli launched a book entitled \"Fiorucci\" to celebrate 50 years of the brand with a foreword by Oscar-winning director Sofia Coppola.\n\nElio Fiorucci was born in Milan on 10 June 1935, son of a shoe shop owner. One day in 1962, Elio came up with the idea of making galoshes in bright primary colours whilst working at his father's shop. When they were featured in a local weekly fashion magazine, the galoshes caused a sensation. Following a trip to London in 1965, Elio was determined to bring Carnaby Street fashions to Milan. He opened his first shop on Galleria Passerella in Milan on 31 May 1967 selling clothes by London designers such as Ossie Clark and Zandra Rhodes.\n\nIn 1968 Fiorucci looked East for inspiration, buying cheap T-shirts from India, and turning rice sacks into bags. Two years later the company set up its own manufacturing plant, and adopted the \"two angels\" logo created by Italo Lupi. In 1974 the company opened a huge new store on Via Torino in Milan, expanding beyond fashion to offer books, furniture and music. The new shop also had a performance area, vintage clothing market, and restaurant, and was financed by an investment from the Standa department stores, part of the Montedison group. Meanwhile the label introduced the monokini and thong from Brazil, causing controversy with the topless photos used to advertise them. Glass beads from New Mexico were another hit. In 1975 the company opened its first store overseas, on the King's Road in London, and launched a children's collection called Fioruccino. It brought Afghan coats to the mass market, and popularised the leopard-skin prints first created by Elsa Schiaparelli two decades before.\n\nThe 1976 opening of the store down the block from Bloomingdale's, on East 59th Street between Lexington and Park Avenues in New York City, introduced the brand to American trendsetters during the disco age. Customers such as Marc Jacobs Cher and Terence Conran would rub shoulders with Jackie Onassis and Lauren Bacall, you might see drag queen Joey Arias serving the King of Spain, author Douglas Coupland absorbing the store's pop culture or Calvin Klein and Gloria Vanderbilt buying some jeans. In the early 1980s the Fiorucci art director was jewelry designer Maripol, known for creating Madonna's look at the time. Other employees included Madonna's brother Christopher Ciccone, Terry Jones of i-D magazine fame, Oliviero Toscani, who shot many of the famous Benetton ads, and famed interior designer Jim Walrod.\n\nIn May 1979 cartoon/graffiti-based artist Kenny Scharf had his first solo exhibition in the New York City store, called \"Fiorucci Celebrates the New Wave\" and featured his colorful, retro-futuristic \"Estelle Series.\" The opening included a performance by Klaus Nomi, the new wave opera singer.\n\nMeanwhile, the company continued to bring new products to market, including a collection made from DuPont's new Tyvek fabric, and velvet slippers from China. In 1978 they were the first fashion house to license their name for a collection of sunglasses, whilst in 1981 a Disney licence led to a highly successful range of clothes emblazoned with Mickey Mouse. Ever on the pulse of the times, Fiorucci sponsored the reunion of Simon and Garfunkel in The Concert in Central Park on 19 September 1981, attended by 400,000 people or more, and on the bill for their birthday party in 1983 was a then-unknown Madonna. In 1982 the company launched the first stretch jeans with Lycra, and the success of the 5-pocket \"Safety\" jeans was recognised three years later in a licensing deal with Wrangler Jeans. In 1987 Fiorucci produced the Junior Gaultier line designed by Jean-Paul Gaultier, and in 1989 they went back to their roots with a deal with Vivienne Westwood, queen of the London street scene.\n\nThe company expanded rapidly after 1978, launching new stores across the US, Europe and Asia. In 1981 Benetton bought Montedison's 50% stake in Fiorucci, which was reduced to 33.3% in 1986 when Elio Fiorucci brought in Iranian businessman Massimo Aki Nuhi (Akinouhi) as a third partner via his holding company Aknofin. Benetton sold their remaining stake to Fiorucci and Aki Nuhi in August 1987. Despite thriving sales, the company was dogged by poor management and had to close the New York store in 1986; Betsey Johnson has suggested \"Fiorucci was the most happening place. It never stopped being happening — it just left New York City, because I don't think New York City was happening enough by the mid-80's\". Fiorucci closed down the rest of the US retail locations in 1988 after a franchise dispute, moving instead to a wholesale strategy. The company went into administration in April 1989 following a dispute over the strategic direction of the firm that had seen Elio offer to buy out Aki Nuhi.\n\nThe company was rescued by the Tacchella brothers of Italian jeans company Carrera S.p.A., who sold on the company to Japanese jeans group Edwin Co., Ltd for 45bn lire (~US$41m). In January 1996 after a plea bargain, Elio Fiorucci was given a suspended jail sentence of 22 months for inflating the value of invoices to increase the value of the company to Carrera at the expense of his creditors. Luciano Benetton was cleared of similar charges, on the grounds that he had not been involved at an operational level during his time (September 1985 - September 1987) on the board of Fiorucci.\n\nOriginally, Edwin planned to launch five stores in key cities like London, but although they signed an initial deal on 4 June 1990 that was ratified that October, Edwin did not gain control of the Fiorucci assets until May 1992. In fact they would later lose the rights to the Fiorucci name in Canada on the grounds of disuse. However, one of Edwin's first acts was a deal with Coles Myer that would see 68 Fiorucci concessions in stores across Australia. They opened a new store in Piazza San Babila, Milan in early 1993, that included a variety of branded boutiques. It took them longer to get things going in North America, after a 1993 deal with Mary Ann Wheaton of Wheaton International fell through. In 1995 they licensed the rights for eyewear in the US to Swan International Optical, and then opened a US office in September 1997. However, the strategy of their licensee, Stephen Budd, to sell the brand into US department stores didn't work out so in 1999 they announced a plan to open a New York store once again. The initial plan was to open in time for Christmas 1999, but the store on lower Broadway finally opened its doors in June 2001. Commentators such as Kim Hastreiter were sceptical that it could recapture the buzz of times past, given the increased competition in mass-market clubbing gear from the likes of H&M and The Limited.\n\nMeanwhile the brand continued to thrive in Europe, and regained some of its former notoriety in 1995 with a poster campaign for its jeans featuring a naked woman's buttocks and pink furry handcuffs, which became instant bestsellers. In 1999 it launched a successful perfume, followed by a second, \"Fiorucci Loves You\", in 2001, and \"Miss Fiorucci\" makeup in 2003. Edwin have been aggressively expanding the brand throughout Asia, from Seoul to Tokyo and China.\n\nAlthough Elio Fiorucci retained creative control during the Edwin era, the new owners were protective of the Fiorucci trademarks, and took legal action against H&M in the US when Elio designed H&M's Poolside line. He had also set up a brand of his own called Love Therapy, and designed for Agent Provocateur.\n\nIn March 2003, Elio Fiorucci announced that after 36 years, he was closing the doors to his historic shop in Corso Vittorio Emmanuele, Milan. When Fiorucci hit the scene nearly 40 years ago, he blew Italy - and the rest of the world - away with a larger-than-life attitude. He brought in the new and unexpected, pre-dating the surge of today's \"lifestyle\" stores. Fiorucci mixed clothing with beauty products, vintage items, music and home furnishings. He even used his retail space for artistic performances. Elio, who had become an ethical vegetarian, said the reason he was closing his shop was because he had \"fallen out of love\" with fashion.\n\nIn 2015, the year Elio Fiorucci died, the brand was sold by the Japanese trading house Itochu to Janie Schaffer, an ex- CEO of Victoria's Secret, and her business partner and former husband Stephen. Their plans to relaunch the iconic brand began in early 2017 with pop-up shops in Barneys in New York, and Selfridges and Harrods in London. A new three storey Fiorucci store opens in Brewer Street in London's Soho in September 2017.\n\nIn 1979, along with Halston and Gucci, Fiorucci was name-checked in the Sister Sledge disco song, \"He's The Greatest Dancer\".\n\nAnother artist, singer and songwriter Terence Boylan, also name-checked Fiorucci in his 1980 song, \"Shake Your Fiorucci\" [(Suzy Terence Boylan Asylum 6E-201 (1980)]. As did Antipodean band Australian Crawl in their 1980 song, \"Hoochie Gucci Fiorucci Mama\", which also referenced Gucci.\n\nThe Beverly Hills Fiorucci store was featured in the 1980 cult classic movie \"Xanadu\", where the ELO video \"All Over the World\" was filmed. A fake Fiorucci store was built on the set of the final battle in New York city for the movie Superman II in 1979.\n\nChristopher Ciccone stated in his book \"Life With My Sister, Madonna\" that he worked at the Manhattan store in the early 80's; also stating that is where he met his lover.\nBritish artist Mark Leckey used the brand name in his landmark work from 1999, \"Fiorucci Made Me Hardcore\".\n\nFiorucci was mentioned in the song \"Beverly Hills\" by the band The Circle Jerks.\n\nThe 1981 EP Minor Disturbance by American punk band The Teen Idles featured the song \"Fiorucci Nightmare\".\n\nIn 2017, American DJ Alex Gimeno best known for Ursula 1000 released the album \"Galleria\" which contains the single \"\"Fiorucci\".\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1933785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933785", "title": "Goharshad Mosque", "text": "Goharshad Mosque\n\nGoharshad Mosque () is a former free standing mosque in Mashhad of the Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran, which now serves as one of the prayer halls within the Imam Reza shrine complex.\n\nIt was built by the order of Empress Goharshad, the wife of Shah Rukh of the Timurid dynasty in 1418 CE. The architect of the edifice was Ghavameddin Shirazi, who is responsible for so many of Shah Rukh's great buildings, with the architectural and decorative manpower supplied from Shiraz and Isfahan. \n\nThe mosque underwent some renovations during the Safavid and Qajar eras. It has four \"iwans\" and a courtyard measuring , as well as several \"shabestans\".\n\nThe double layered dome of the mosque was severely damaged in 1911 in bombings by troops of the Russian Empire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56620192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56620192", "title": "Hurufiyya movement", "text": "Hurufiyya movement\n\nThe Hurufiyya movement ( \"hurufiyya\", adjective form \"hurufi\" literal meaning \"letters\" [of the alphabet]) was an aesthetic movement that emerged in the late twentieth century amongst Arabian and North African artists, who used their understanding of traditional Islamic calligraphy, within the precepts of modern art. By combining tradition and modernity, these artists worked towards developing a Pan-Arab visual language, which instilled a sense of national identity in their respective nation states, at a time when many of these states where shaking off colonial rule and asserting their independence. They adopted the same name as the Hurufi, an approach of Sufism which emerged in the late 14th–early 15th century. Art historian, Dagher, has described hurufiyya as the most important movement to emerge in the Arab art world in the 20th-century. \n\nThe term, \"hurifiyya\" is derived from the Arabic term, \"harf\" which means letter (as in a letter of the alphabet). When the term is used to describe an contemporary art movement, it explicitly references a Medieval system of teaching involving political theology and lettrism. In this theology, letters were seen as primordial signifiers and manipulators of the cosmos. Thus, the term is charged with Sufi intellectual and esoteric meaning. \n\nThe hurufiyya art movement (also known as the \"Al-hurufiyyah movement\" or the \"Letrism movement\") refers to the use of calligraphy as a graphic element within an artwork, typically an abstract work. The pan-Arab hurufiyya art movement is distinct from the Letterist International which had an Algerian section founded in Chlef in 1953 by Hadj Mohamed Dahou. \n\nThe term, \"hurufiyya\" has become somewhat controversial and has been rejected by a number of scholars, including Wijdan Ali, Nada Shabout and Karen Dabrowska. An alternative term, \"al-Madrassa al-Khattiya Fil-Fann\" [Calligraphic School of Art] has been proposed to describe the experimental use of calligraphy in modern Arabic art.\n\nTraditional hurufi art was bound by strict rules, which amongst other things, confined calligraphy to devotional works and prohibited the representation of humans in manuscripts. Practising calligraphers trained with a master for many years in order to learn both the technique and the rules governing calligraphy. Contemporary hurufiyya artists broke free from these rules, allowing Arabic letters to be deconstructed, altered and included in abstract artworks. \n\nThe use of traditional Arabic elements, notably, calligraphy, in modern art arose independently in various Islamic states; few of these artists working in this area, had knowledge of each other, allowing for different manifestations of hurufiyya to develop in different regions. In Sudan, for instance, the movement was known as the \"Old Khartoum School\", and assumed a distinctive character in which both African motifs and calligraphy were combined, while media such as leather and wood replaced canvas to provide a distinct African style. In Morocco, the movement was accompanied by the replacement of traditional media for oils; artists favoured traditional dyes such as henna, and embraced weaving, jewellery and tattoo as well as including traditional Berber motifs. In Jordan, it was generally known as the \"al-hurufiyyah\" movement, while in Iran, the Saqqa-Khaneh movement.\n\nSome scholars have suggested that Madiha Omar, who was active in the US and Baghdad from the mid-1940s, was the pioneer of the movement, since she was the first to explore the use of Arabic script in a contemporary art context in the 1940s and exhibited hurufiyya-inspired works in Washington in 1949. However, other scholars have suggested that she was a \"precursor\" to Hurufiyya. Yet other scholars have suggested that the hurufiyya art movement probably began in North Africa, in the area around Sudan, with the work of Ibrahim el-Salahi, who initially explored Coptic manuscripts, a step that led him to experiment with Arabic calligraphy. It is clear that by the early 1950s, a number of artists in different countries were experimenting with works based on calligraphy, including the Iraqi painter and sculptor, Jamil Hamoudi who experimented with the graphic possibilities of using Arabic characters, as early as 1947; Iranian painters, Nasser Assar (b. 1928) () and Hossein Zenderoudi, who won a prize at the 1958 Paris Biennale. \nHurufiyya artists rejected Western art concepts, and instead grappled with a new artistic identity drawn from within their own culture and heritage. These artists successfully integrated Islamic visual traditions, especially calligraphy, into contemporary, indigenous compositions. The common theme amongst hurufiyya artists is that they all tapped into the beauty and mysticism of Arabic calligraphy, but used it in a modern, abstract sense. Although hurufiyya artists struggled to find their own individual dialogue with nationalism, they also worked towards a broader aesthetic that transcended national boundaries and represented an affiliation with an Arab identity in the post-colonial period.\n\nThe art historian, Christiane Treichl, explains how calligraphy is used in contemporary art: \n\nThe hurufiyya art movement was not confined to painters, but also included important ceramicists such as the Jordanian, Mahmoud Taha, who combined traditional aesthetics, including calligraphy, with skilled craftsmanship, and sculptors, such as the Qatari, Yousef Ahmad and the Iraqi sculptors, Jawad Saleem and Mohammed Ghani Hikmat. Nor, was the movement organised along formal lines across the Arab-speaking nations. In some Arab nations, hurufiyya artists formed formal groups or societies, such as Iraq's \"Al Bu'd al Wahad\" (or the One Dimension Group)\" which published a manifesto, while in other nations artists working independently in the same city had no knowledge of each other. \n\nArt historian, Dagher, has described hurufiyya as the most important movement to emerge in the Arab world in the 20th-century. However, the \"Cambridge Companion to Modern Arab Culture,\" while acknowledging its importance in terms of encouraging Arab nationalism, describes hurufiyya as neither \"a movement nor a school.\" \n\nArt historians have identified three generations of hurufiyya artists: \n\nHurufiyya art involved a very diverse range of \"explorations into the abstract, graphic, and aesthetic properties of Arabic letters.\" Art historians, including Wijdan Ali and Shirbil Daghir, have attempted to develop a way of classifying different types of hurufiyya art. Ali identifies the following, which she describes as \"schools\" within the \"movement\": \n\n\n\nIraqi painter, Madiha Omar, is recognised as a pioneer of the hurufiyaa art movement, having exhibited a number of hurufist-inspired works in Georgetown in Washington as early as 1949. and publishing \"Arabic Calligraphy: An Inspiring Element in Abstract Art\" in 1950. Jamil Hamoudi was also a pioneer, active from the 1950s. Both Omar and Hamoudi joined the One Dimension Group when it was founded by Shakir Hassan Al Said in 1971 since its principles were based on the importance of the Arabic letter. The artist and art historian, Princess Wijdan Ali, who developed the traditions of Arabic calligraphy in a modern, abstract format and is considered a pioneer of the movement in Jordan, has been able to bring hurufiyya to the attention of a broader audience through her writing and her work as a curator and patron of the arts. \n\nNotable exponents of hurufiyya art include: \n\nAlgeria\n\nEgypt\n\nIraq\n\nIran\n\nJordan\n\nLebanon\nMorocco\n\nPakistan\n\nPalestine\n\nSaudi Arabia\n\nSudan\n\nSyria\n\nTunisia\n\nUnited Arab Emirates\n\nIndividual hurufiyya artists began to stage exhibitions from the 1960s. In addition to solo exhibitions, several group exhibitions showcasing the variations in hurufiyya art, both geographically and temporally, have also been mounted by prestigious art museums. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21107417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21107417", "title": "Independent Theatre Society", "text": "Independent Theatre Society\n\nThe Independent Theatre Society was a by-subscription-only organisation in London from 1891 to 1897, founded by Dutch drama critic Jacob Grein to give \"special performances of plays which have a literary and artistic rather than a commercial value.\" The society was inspired by its continental forerunners, the \"Théâtre-Libre\" (Free Theatre) and \"Die Freie Bühne\" (Free Stage). The Society produced modern realist plays, mostly by continental European playwrights, on the London stage.\n\nThe Society's performances, using professional actors, were given in theatres that were otherwise 'dark' — on Sundays, when no normal performances were scheduled. Because membership was by subscription, the performances were not \"public\", and so the Society was allowed to perform plays that had not received a licence from the Lord Chamberlain's Office; and in this way they were able to avoid the censorship of the London stage.\n\nDuring 1891, the Royalty Theatre fell vacant and offered the Society an opportunity to stage plays with a professional cast and crew. The first performance for the Society there was of Henrik Ibsen's \"Ghosts\", on 13 March 1891 — in a translation by William Archer. This was followed by Émile Zola's \"Thérèse Raquin\" on 9 October 1891. Both plays were greeted with a storm of protest. \"Ghosts\" was described thus: \"an orderly audience, including many ladies... listened attentively to the dramatic exposition of a subject which is not usually discussed outside the walls of an hospital\". Other critics called for the withdrawal of Kate Santley's licence. The following year, Grein approached the (then) young theatre critic George Bernard Shaw for a play for the Society. Shaw's first play, \"Widowers' Houses\", premièred for the Society at the Royalty Theatre on 9 December 1892. \"A Question of Memory\" by Michael Field premièred on 27 October 1893; and \"The Black Cat\" by Irish playwright, John Todhunter received its only performance, on 8 December 1893, at the Opera Comique. The Society premièred Ibsen's \"The Wild Duck\" (in translation) in 1894. In 1895, Grein invited Aurélien Lugné-Poe to present a season of productions in French, of Ibsen's \"Rosmersholm\", \"The Master Builder\" and Maurice Maeterlinck's symbolist \"L'Intruse\" and \"Pelléas and Mélisande\".\n\nMembership of the Society never exceeded 175, but it was influential, including George Meredith, Arthur Wing Pinero, Thomas Hardy and Henry James, amongst the members. In 1895, Shaw wrote (of the Society) \"The Independent Theatre is an excellent institution, simply because it is independent. The disparagers ask what it is independent of... It is, of course, independent of commercial success... If Mr Grein had not taken the dramatic critics of London and put them in a row before \"Ghosts\" and \"The Wild Duck\", with a small but inquisitive and influential body of enthusiasts behind them, we should be far less advanced today than we are. The real history of the drama for the last ten years is not the history of the prosperous enterprises of Mr Hare, Mr Irving, and the established West-End theatres, but of the forlorn hopes led by Mr Vernon, Mr Charrington, Mr Grein, Messrs Henly and Stevenson, Miss Achurch, Miss Robins and Miss Lea, Miss Farr and the rest of the Impossibilities.\" He went on to urge that the London managers \"might provide one marketable play each year\", so that the Society could continue as a laboratory for experimental theatre.\n\nAs a result of its small subscription base and its high ambitions, the Society was not financially successful and was wound up in 1897, having presented 22 productions and premières of an additional 26 one-act programmes. The Incorporated Stage Society took over the work two years later and was itself the inspiration for the formation of the Abbey Theatre in Dublin and the English Stage Company, which is today the resident company of the Royal Court Theatre. Grein continued his interest in European theatre, founding the German Theatre in London Programme in 1900 with his future wife, the actress, Alice Augusta Greeven.\n"}
{"id": "36609482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36609482", "title": "Lindsey Pollard", "text": "Lindsey Pollard\n\nLindsey Pollard is an animator from Victoria, British Columbia, Canada, now residing in Los Angeles, California. Her work as an animation director on the children's Cartoon Network series \"Camp Lazlo\" garnered three Pulcinella awards, two Emmy nominations, and a 2007 Emmy win. In 1994, she received The Grand Prize Norman McLaren Award and won \"Best Animation\" in the Montreal World Film Festival for her student film \"The Chain Letter\". As a member of The Emily Carr Institute Alumni, she received The Emily Award in Recognition of Outstanding Achievement in 2008. Lindsey was an assistant director on \"The Simpsons Movie\" and a timer on \"My Gym Partner's A Monkey\", \"The Simpsons\", \"Drawn Together\", \"The Fairly OddParents\", \"The Oblongs\", \"Baby Blues\", \"The Cramp Twins\", and \"Mission Hill\". She is currently a retake director on the Emmy award winning hit series \"Family Guy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "51674407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51674407", "title": "List of Archibald Prize 2016 finalists", "text": "List of Archibald Prize 2016 finalists\n\nThis is a list of finalists for the 2016 Archibald Prize for portraiture. As the images are copyrighted, an external link to an image has been listed where available (listed is Artist – \"Title\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11163970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11163970", "title": "List of New Testament uncials", "text": "List of New Testament uncials\n\nA New Testament uncial is a section of the New Testament in Greek or Latin majuscule letters, written on parchment or vellum. This style of writing is called \"Biblical Uncial\" or \"Biblical Majuscule\".\n\nNew Testament uncials are distinct from other ancient texts based on the following differences:\n\nIn 1751, New Testament theologian Johann Jakob Wettstein knew of only 23 uncial codices of the New Testament. By 1859, Constantin von Tischendorf had increased that number to 64 uncials, and in 1909 Caspar René Gregory enumerated 161 uncial codices. By 1963, Kurt Aland, in his \"Kurzgefasste Liste\", had enumerated 250, then in 1989, finally, 299 uncials.\n\nWettstein inaugurated the modern method of classification. He used capital Latin letters to identify the uncials. Codex Alexandrinus received the letter \"A\", Codex Vaticanus – \"B\", Codex Ephraemi – \"C\", Codex Bezae – \"D\", until he arrived at the last letter used by him, \"O\". Succeeding generations used this pattern, but newly discovered manuscripts soon exhausted the Latin alphabet. As a result, letters of the Greek and Hebrew alphabets began to be used. Tischendorf, for example, assigned the Codex Sinaiticus the Hebrew letter א. Uncial 047 received siglum ב, Uncial 048 received ב, Uncial 075 received ג, Codex Macedoniensis – ו, to name a few. When Greek and Hebrew letters ran out, Gregory assigned uncials numerals with an initial 0 (to distinguish them from the symbols of minuscule manuscripts). Codex Sinaiticus received the number 01, Alexandrinus – 02, Vaticanus – 03, Ephraemi – 04, etc. The last uncial manuscript known by Gregory received number 0161. Ernst von Dobschütz expanded the list of uncials through 0208 in 1933.\n\nHowever, the 322 currently catalogued does not provide a precise count of all the New Testament Greek uncials. Uncial 0168 has been lost and over thirty manuscripts are associated with a smaller set of designations. Sometimes one number also applies to two separate manuscripts, as with uncial 092a and 092b, 0121a and 0121b, and 0278a and 0278b. Some other numerical designations should be reallocated to other lists: 055 (commentary), 0100 (lectionary), 0129 (lectionary), 0152 (talisman), 0153 (ostracon), 0192 (lectionary), 0195 (lectionary), 0203 (lectionary). Uncial 0212 from the 3rd or 4th century is more properly a witness to the Diatessaron than to the New Testament itself. So, the number 322 is merely nominal; the actual figure should be somewhat lower. Conversely, minuscule 1143, known as \"Beratinus 2\", has some parts that were written in semi-uncial letters.\n\n<br>\n† Indicates the manuscript has damaged or missing pages.\n[ ] Brackets around Gregory-Aland number indicate the manuscript belongs to an already numbered manuscript, was found to not be a continuous text manuscript, is destroyed or presumed destroyed.\n\nOnly one uncial, Codex Sinaiticus has a complete text of the New Testament. Codex Alexandrinus has an almost complete text. It contains all books of the New Testament but lacks some leaves of Matthew (25), John (2), and Second Corinthians (3). Codex Vaticanus lacks the four last books, and the Epistle to the Hebrews is not complete. Codex Ephraemi has approximately 66 per cent of the New Testament. Uncials with designations higher than 046 typically have only one or two leaves.\n\nThe first 45 uncials have been assigned descriptive names as well as a single letter code called a \"siglum\", for usage in academic writing. Beginning with uncial 046 the assignment of \"sigla\" was dropped and only a few manuscripts thereafter received a descriptive name.\n\nBeginning with 046, the use of identifying \"sigla\" was dropped, and very few uncials were given identifying names.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36305967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36305967", "title": "List of postminimalist artists", "text": "List of postminimalist artists\n\nArtists who are frequently considered postminimalist include:\n\n"}
{"id": "38549424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38549424", "title": "Lydia Goehr", "text": "Lydia Goehr\n\nLydia Goehr is a Professor of Philosophy at Columbia University. Her research specialties include the philosophy of music, aesthetics, critical theory, the philosophy of history, and 19th- and 20th-century philosophy.\n\nGoehr was born in London, on January 10, 1960. She is the daughter of the composer Alexander Goehr and granddaughter of Walter Goehr. She received her Ph.D. from Cambridge University, where her dissertation on the ontology of music was supervised by Bernard Williams. In addition to her permanent appointment at Columbia, Goehr has accepted a number of visiting appointments, including a position as Visiting Ernest Bloch Professor at UC Berkeley's music department in 1997, as the visiting Aby Warburg Professor at the University of Hamburg in 2002-2003, as a visiting professor at the Freie Universität in Berlin in 2008, and as a visiting professor in the Fu-Berlin SFB Theater und Fest in 2009.\n\nGoehr has written three books, co-edited a fourth, and has published numerous articles in the philosophy of music and critical theory. Her first book, \"The Imaginary Museum of Musical Works: An Essay in the Philosophy of Music\" (Clarendon Press, Oxford), was published in 1992, and has since been translated into Greek, Chinese and Italian. Her second book, \"A Quest for Voice: On Music, Politics, and the Limits of Philosophy\" (Clarendon Press, Oxford), is based on the Bloch Lectures, delivered at the University of California, Berkeley in 1997. Her third book, published in 2008, is \"Elective Affinities: Musical Essays on the History of Aesthetic Theory\" (Columbia University Press).\n\nGoehr's work focuses on the history of aesthetic theory, attempting to understand the relational nature of norms and power dynamics with the structure that confines them and regulates their practice. Most of her work has focused on the musical arts, and some of it has explored the complicated and often hostile relationship between the various arts, and between the arts and philosophy and religion. She has also engaged with ideas about the legitimacy of war from a critical theory standpoint, as well as dealt with the philosophy of history and the history of philosophy.\n\nGoehr has received several awards for her research as well as for her teaching of undergraduate students and mentoring of graduate students. She has been a recipient of the Getty and Guggenheim Fellowships. In 2012, Goehr was awarded the H. Colin Slim Award by the American Musicological Society. In 2009/2010, Goehr received a Lenfest Distinguished Columbia Faculty Award. In 2005, Goehr was a winner of the Columbia University Presidential Award for Outstanding Teaching.\n\n"}
{"id": "33436603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33436603", "title": "Minister for Arts, Culture and Heritage", "text": "Minister for Arts, Culture and Heritage\n\nThe Minister for Arts, Culture and Heritage is a minister in the government of New Zealand with responsibility for arts, culture, heritage, and broadcasting, and is in charge of the Ministry for Culture and Heritage. The position was established in 1975 as Minister for the Arts.\n\nThe present Minister is Jacinda Ardern, the current Prime Minister and leader the Labour Party.\n\nThe Third National Government of New Zealand established a ministerial portfolio with responsibility for the arts at its election in 1975. This reflected a growing interest of the Government in the cultural sector. The name of the portfolio changed to \"Minister for Arts and Culture\" in 1987. During this period, the portfolio was serviced by the Department of Internal Affairs.\n\nA separate portfolio, Minister responsible for the New Zealand Symphony Orchestra, was established in 1987. This was held first by Jonathan Hunt (24 August 1987—9 February 1990) and subsequently by Margaret Austin (also the Minister for Arts and Culture; 9 February 1990—2 November 1990) before being subsumed back into the responsibilities of the Minister for Arts and Culture.\n\nA standalone agency, the Ministry for Cultural Affairs, was established by the Fourth National Government in 1991, which necessitated the change of title to \"Minister for Cultural Affairs.\" With the creation of the Ministry for Culture and Heritage in 1999, which brought together cultural and heritage responsibilities in the same agency, the portfolio title changed to match its department. The present name was adopted in November 1999 at the election of the Fifth Labour Government.\n\nPrime Minister Jacinda Ardern appointed two Associate Ministers:\n"}
{"id": "16741897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16741897", "title": "Muraqqa", "text": "Muraqqa\n\nA Muraqqa (, , ) is an album in book form containing Islamic miniature paintings and specimens of Islamic calligraphy, normally from several different sources, and perhaps other matter. The album was popular among collectors in the Islamic world, and by the later 16th century became the predominant format for miniature painting in the Persian Safavid, Mughal and Ottoman empires, greatly affecting the direction taken by the painting traditions of the Persian miniature, Ottoman miniature and Mughal miniature. The album largely replaced the full-scale illustrated manuscript of classics of Persian poetry, which had been the typical vehicle for the finest miniature painters up to that time. The great cost and delay of commissioning a top-quality example of such a work essentially restricted them to the ruler and a handful of other great figures, who usually had to maintain a whole workshop of calligraphers, artists and other craftsmen, with a librarian to manage the whole process. An album could be compiled over time, page by page, and often included miniatures and pages of calligraphy from older books that were broken up for this purpose, and allowed a wider circle of collectors access to the best painters and calligraphers, although they were also compiled by, or presented to, shahs and emperors. The earliest \"muraqqa\" were of pages of calligraphy only; it was at the court in Herat of the Timurid prince Baysunghur in the early 15th century that the form became important for miniature painting. The word \"muraqqa\" means \"that which has been patched together\" in Persian.\n\nThe works in an album, typically of different original sizes, were trimmed or mounted on standard size pages, often with new border decoration being added. When the compilation was considered complete it was bound, often very luxuriously, with an Islamic book-cover that might be highly decorated with lacquered paint, gold stamping on leather, or other techniques. Other \"muraqqa\" might be bound in a special concertina-like form. Many were arranged with pages of calligraphy facing miniatures, the matching of verse to image allowing some scope for the creativity of the compiler. Albums containing only calligraphy tended to be arranged chronologically to show the development of a style. The bindings of many albums allowed items to be added and removed, or they were just removed from the centre of the page, and such changes were often made; some albums had marks which allow changes to be traced. The grandest albums had specially written prefaces which are the source of a high proportion of surviving contemporary writing on the arts of the book, and the biographies of painters and calligraphers; these tended to be written by calligraphers. For calligraphers too the single page for an album became the \"bread and butter\" source of income, using mostly texts from poetry, whether extracts from a long classic or ghazal lyrics, but sometimes an extract from the Qur'an, perhaps given the place of honour at the start of the album. Album pages often have areas of decorated illumination (as in the illustration) that share their motifs with other media, notably book-covers and carpet designs, the best of which were in fact probably mostly produced by the same type of artist at court, and sent to the weavers.\n\nWhile the classic Islamic illuminated manuscript tradition had concentrated on rather crowded scenes with strong narrative content as illustrations in full texts of classic and lengthy works like the \"Shahnameh\" and the \"Khamsa of Nizami\", the single miniature intended from the start for a \"muraqqa\" soon developed as a simpler scene with fewer, larger, figures, often showing idealized beauties of either sex in a garden setting, or genre figures from nomadic life, usually with no real or fictional identities attached to them. In Mughal India realistic portraiture, nearly always of rulers or courtiers, became a very common feature, and in Ottoman Turkey portraits of the Sultans, often very stylised, were a particular speciality. Fully coloured scenes tended to give way to part-drawn and part-painted ones, or to figures with little or no background. The album to some extent overlaps with the anthology, a collection of different pieces where the main emphasis is on the texts, but which can also include paintings and drawings inserted from different sources.\n\nThe dominant tradition of miniature painting in the late Middle Ages was that of Persia, which had a number of centres, but all usually dependent on one key patron, whether the shah himself, or a figure either governing a part of the country from a centre such as Herat, where Baysunghur was an important patron in the early 15th century, or the ruler of a further part of the Persianate world in a centre like Bukhara. As the Safavid dynasty centralized Persian rule in the 16th century the number of potential partrons of a full-size atelier declined, but the atelier of the shah expanded and produced a number of superb illustrated books, using a variety of very talented artists on each. However, in the 1540s Shah Tahmasp I, previously a keen patron, lost interest in commissioning books, and thereafter the Persian miniature painting tradition lacked a steady source of commissions for books in the old style. After a gap of some years, Tahmasp's nephew Ibrahim Mirza established an atelier at Mashad, which produced the Freer Jami in the 1560s, and which Shah Ismail II took over after having its former patron killed in 1577. But Ismail's reign was very brief, and thereafter consistent large-scale patronage was lacking. It was in this period that the single miniature designed for inserting in an album came to be dominant; such works had long been produced, but now they became the main source of income for many artists, who probably often produced them speculatively with no commission, and then looked to sell them (little is known about the market for album miniatures).\n\nThe artist who epitomises the Persian album miniature is Riza Abbasi, active from the 1580s until his death in 1635, whose early single miniatures of groups are somewhat like those in narrative scenes, but lacking any actual narrative attached to them. He soon turned to, and developed, subjects mostly of one or two figures, often portrait-like, although very few identities are given or were probably ever intended to be recognised. There are a large number of beautiful youths, to whose clothes great attention is paid.\n\nThe best Ottoman painting was heavily concentrated in the capital, which from 1453 was Istanbul, and the most important patron was always the Sultan. The royal library remains very largely intact in Turkey, mostly at Topkapi Palace, and was greatly enriched by Persian manuscripts, initially taken during the several Ottoman invasions of eastern Persia, and later, after a treaty in 1555, often received as diplomatic gifts. Many of these manuscripts were broken up to use the miniatures in albums. Persian artists were imported from virtually the start of the Ottoman tradition, but especially in the 16th century; sixteen artists were brought back just from the brief Ottoman conquest of Tabriz in 1514, though by 1558 the palace records list only nine foreign artists of all kinds, against twenty-six Turks. But a distinctively Ottoman style can be seen from the start of the 16th century, with pictures showing simpler landscape backgrounds, more sea and ships, neatly tented army camps, distant cityscapes, more individual characterization of faces, but also a less refined technique. There was strong European influence, mostly from Venice, but this was restricted to portraiture.\n\nTurkish albums include mixtures of collected miniatures similar to those in Persia, and often including Persian pieces, with the addition of rather more greatly elaborated pen drawings of an essentially decorative nature, of a foliage motif, or a bird or animal treated largely as such. Albums dedicated to the sultans, with portraits and laudatory pieces of text, are a distinctive Turkish type, and there were also albums of scenes of Turkish life, showing the relatively uniform costume of different ranks in society, methods of torture and execution, and other scenes of interest to the mostly Western foreigners they were produced for, matching similar prints made in contemporary Europe.\n\nOne very distinctive type of miniature is found only in Ottoman albums, though they may have been brought from Persia as booty, and perhaps were not intended for albums originally. These are eighty or so the mysterious and powerful images grouped under the name of Siyah Qalam, meaning \"Black Pen\" (or drunk or evil pen), full of demons and scenes which suggest nomadic life in Central Asia, though it has also been suggested that they come from a single Persian court artist letting himself go. They are perhaps from the early 15th century, reaching Turkey in the 16th.\n\nAnother distinctive type of Ottoman work is the découpage or cut paper miniature, where different colours of paper, cut with minute detail then pasted together, are used to create the image. This technique was used for book-covers in Timurid Persia, which were then varnished over for protection, but in Turkey the images were treated as miniatures and went inside albums; the technique was also much used for page border decoration.\n\nThe Mughal dynasty in the Indian subcontinent was rather later in establishing a large court atelier, which did not begin until after the exile in Persia of the second emperor, Humayun, who on his return was joined from about 1549 by Persian artists including Abd as-Samad. The Mughal style developed under the next emperor, Akbar, who commissioned some very large illustrated books, but his artists produced single miniatures for albums as well. In the case of the Jahangirnama, the emperor Jahangir kept a diary and commissioned paintings separately, which were most likely held in the Kitabkhana (किताबखाना), until his official contribution to the court chronicle genre could be assembled. From fairly early the Mughal style made a strong feature of realistic portraiture, usually in profile, and perhaps influenced by Western prints, which were available at the Mughal court. For a long time portraits were always of men, often accompanied by generalized female servants or concubines; but there is scholarly debate about the representation of female court members in portraiture. Some scholars claim there are no known extant likenesses of figures like Jahanara Begum and Mumtaz Mahal, and others attribute miniatures, for example from the Dara Shikoh album or the Freer Gallery of Art mirror portrait, to these famous noblewomen. Another popular subject area was realistic studies of animals and plants, mostly flowers; from the 17th century equestrian portraits, mostly of rulers, became another popular borrowing from the West. The single idealized figure of the Riza Abbasi type was less popular, but fully painted scenes of lovers in a palace setting became popular later. Drawings of genre scenes, especially showing holy men, whether Muslim or Hindu, were also popular.\n\nAkbar had an album, now dispersed, consisting entirely of portraits of figures at his enormous court which had a practical purpose; according to chroniclers he used to consult it when discussing appointments and the like with his advisors, apparently to jog his memory of who the people being discussed were. Many of them, like medieval European images of saints, carried objects associated with them to help identification, but otherwise the figures stand on a plain background. There are a number of fine portraits of Akbar, but it was under his successors Jahangir and Shah Jahan that the portrait of the ruler became firmly established as a leading subject in Indian miniature painting, which was to spread to both Muslim and Hindu princely courts across India.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries Indian artists working in the hybrid Indo-European Company style produced albums of miniatures for Europeans living in India as part of the British Raj and its French and Portuguese equivalents. Some Europeans collected or were given earlier Indian miniatures; the Large and Small Clive albums were presented to Lord Clive, and are now in the Victoria & Albert Museum in London. Others created albums of new work, tending to concentrate on animal portraits and the houses, horses and other possessions of this wealthy group. In the 19th century images of Indians and their costumes, often categorized by regional and ethnic type, or occupation, became very popular. Large-scale patrons included Colonel James Skinner of Skinner's Horse fame, who had a Rajput mother, and for natural history paintings, Mary Impey, wife of Elijah Impey, who commissioned over three hundred, and the Marquess Wellesley, brother of the first Duke of Wellington, who had over 2,500 miniatures.\n\nAlbums were often presented as gifts to mark a milestone in life. Chroniclers record that when the Persian Prince Ibrahim Mirza was killed in 1577, on the orders of Shah Tahmasp I, his wife, Tahmasp's sister, destroyed artworks including an album containing miniatures by Behzad among others, which her husband had compiled and given her for their wedding, washing the miniatures in water. Perhaps she did not want anything to fall into the hands of her brother, who had ordered his death, and who did take over the prince's atelier. Albums were often presented to rulers on their accession, or in Turkey at New Year. They could also be given as diplomatic gifts between rulers.\n\nA muraqqa was created for Sultan Murad III in 1572 when he ascended to the throne, which is unusual because the dedication is very detailed, including the date and place of creation, namely Istanbul, 980 AH/1572-73 AD. The dedication is to Murad III, also naming his compiler Mehmed Cenderecizade. The Murad III muraqqa was designed much more extravagantly than other Islamic muraqqa and with original nakkashane (Ottoman painting studio) border paintings. This muraqqa contained miniature paintings, ink drawings, and calligraphy, including ghazals. The Murad III muraqqa has twenty-four miniatures created in the cities of Bukhara to the east of Persia, Tabriz, Isfahan, and Qazvin in Persia, and Istanbul between the late fifteenth and seventeenth centuries. It has a two-page introduction written in Persian, which is similar in structure to Timurid and Safavid album prefaces, and indicates that this muraqqa was compiled in Istanbul less than two years before Murad III became Sultan.\n\nAnother album in the Ottoman royal collection contains only Western images, mostly prints but including a drawing in pen of an \"Ornamental Scroll with Putti and Penises\", \"for the merriment of adult guests at a dinner in Pera\". The collection was probably assembled for a Florentine in the late 15th century, probably a merchant living in Istanbul (where Pera was the quarter for Westerners). The other 15 images are a mixed group of Florentine engravings, mostly unique impressions (i.e. otherwise unknown), with some religious subjects and a coloured print of Mehmet II, who apparently acquired the album. It is of interest to art historians because only a small handful of early albums of Western prints survive anywhere, having been broken up by later collectors or dealers; they were probably common among collectors in Europe at the time.\n\n\nAbdur Rahman Chughtai was a painter who was responsible for the revival of the muraqqa in Pakistan in 1928 after publishing his Muraqqa-I Chughtai. When he started painting in the 1910s his major influence was Hindu mythology, but by the 1920s he was inspired by Islamic artwork including the muraqqa, ghazals, and Ottoman miniatures.\n\nUsing the emergent tools of digital humanities, Sumathi Ramaswamy at Duke University has recreated the form of a Mughal muraqqa’ to track the itineraries of the terrestrial globe in early modern India.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52529768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52529768", "title": "Music for Electric Metronomes", "text": "Music for Electric Metronomes\n\nMusic for Electric Metronomes is an avant-garde aleatoric composition written in 1960 by Japanese composer Toshi Ichiyanagi for any number of performers between three and eight. The piece involves the manipulation of electric metronomes, followed by various unspecified sounds and actions. It is a very theatrical piece, and reflects Ichiyanagi's affiliation with Fluxus, an experimental art movement from the sixties. The only true scored \"instrument\" is an electric metronome for each individual player, though the varying sounds and/or actions may involve many different instruments and objects at the discretion of the performer. Because the graphic notation of the score – a series of dashes, lines, and numbers in an erratic pattern of connected paths – leaves room for personal interpretation and expression, each performance is unique, and almost certainly cannot be reproduced. There is no conductor for the performance. It has been recorded on the album \"Toshi Ichiyanagi: 1960's & 1990's\". In a review of a performance by the S.E.M. Ensemble in 1992 at the Paula Cooper Gallery, the music critic of \"The New York Times\", Alex Ross, described the piece as \"merely a timid, spastic prelude to György Ligeti's monumental \"Poème symphonique\" for 100 metronomes\".\n\nThe score for \"Music for Electric Metronomes\" consists of a diagram featuring series of dashes, lines, and numbers in an erratic pattern of connected paths accompanied by a set of directions. Each player looks at the score and chooses a path, starting from one \"end\" of the score, and finishing at another. There are 10 \"ends\" to start and finish with. This path should culminate in about 8 minutes worth of actions, sounds, and metronome manipulation. Once the player has chosen their path, they will use numbers as guides for meter and duration, and various types of lines as a guide to choosing their actions and sounds. Each player will begin at their respective ends, and start the metronome at the BPM (beats-per-minute) designated by their starting number. Then, using the amount of beats specified, they will gradually adjust the tempo of the metronome to the next designated BPM on their path. The connecting line between these BPMs is what specifies the action(s) or sound(s) that follow:\n\n"}
{"id": "997595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=997595", "title": "Mythopoeic Society", "text": "Mythopoeic Society\n\nThe Mythopoeic Society (MythSoc) is a non-profit organization devoted to the study of mythopoeic literature, particularly the works of J. R. R. Tolkien, Charles Williams, and C. S. Lewis, all members of The Inklings, an informal group of writers who met weekly in C.S. Lewis’ rooms at Magdalen College, Oxford, from the early 1930s through late 1949.\n\nThe Mythopoeic Society was founded in 1967 by Glen H. GoodKnight. Originally composed of discussion groups based in the Los Angeles area, it expanded to include organized branches across North America; in 1972 it assimilated the Tolkien Society of America. Membership is open to those who read, study, or write in the genres of myth and fantasy.\n\nThree periodical publications are produced by the society:\n\nIn addition to the periodicals, the society formed The Mythopoeic Press to publish material by and about writers of mythopoeic and fantastic literature, especially focused on The Inklings. Works published include out-of-print materials, collections of short articles and essays, and scholarly items.\n\nThe society sponsors local discussion groups throughout the United States and the \"Annual Mythopoeic Conference\", also known as \"Mythcon\", generally held on college or university campuses in various locations, primarily within the United States. Mythcon XX was held in Vancouver, British Columbia, in 1989. Mythcon XXIII was held at Keble College, Oxford, England, in 1992 as part of \"The J.R.R. Tolkien Centenary Conference\", co-sponsored with The Tolkien Society. Likewise, Mythcon XXXVI in 2005 was held at Aston University, Birmingham, England, combined with \"Tolkien 2005 - 50 Years of The Lord of the Rings\", sponsored by The Tolkien Society.\n\nSince 1971 the Mythopoeic Society has bestowed a series of annual awards to outstanding works. In 1991 the literary award was broken into two categories: the \"Mythopoeic Fantasy Award for Adult Literature\" and the \"Mythopoeic Fantasy Award for Children’s Literature\".\n\nThe \"Mythopoeic Scholarship Award in Inklings Studies\" is given to books on J.R.R. Tolkien, C.S. Lewis, and/or Charles Williams that make significant contributions to Inklings scholarship. The \"Mythopoeic Scholarship Award in Myth and Fantasy Studies\" is given to scholarly books on other specific authors in the Inklings tradition, or to more general works on the genres of myth and fantasy. For the scholarship awards, books first published during the previous three years are eligible, including finalists for previous years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953574", "title": "National Library of Iran", "text": "National Library of Iran\n\nThe National Library of Iran (NLI) is located in Tehran, Iran, with several branches scattered throughout the city.\n\nPrior to the library's official inauguration in 1937, other libraries existed that performed the same function informally. The first prototype of a national library in Iran was the Library of Dar al-Funun College, established in 1851. In 1899, another library called the \"Nation's Library\" was inaugurated in Tehran.\n\nThe present National Library of Iran incorporates many different collections from older libraries, including many rare and valuable manuscripts. The central main branch is located in north central Tehran.\n\nThe new building is specially designed to combine different faculties of the library in a single platform. The library by itself is over 90,000 m, the largest library campus in the Middle East. It encompasses 5 separate halls, each hall dedicated to a different faculty, including Humanities, Social Sciences, Law, Science and Science Education, and Health Studies.\n\nIt took over the publishing of the \"Iranian National Bibliography\" (\"Ketab Shenasi Melli Iran\"), with annual publications between 1962 and 1966, a break for two years, and then monthly and quartly since 1969.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45390420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45390420", "title": "Pithora (painting)", "text": "Pithora (painting)\n\nPithora is a highly ritualistic painting done on the walls by several tribes such as the Rathwas and Bhilalas who live in the central Gujarat, , in a village called Tejgadh. In several other villages around Tejgadh (even in Madhya Pradesh) and Chhota Udaipur district , lives a large population of these tribes where we find Pithora paintings on three inner walls of the house. These paintings have significance in their lives and executing the Pithora paintings in their homes brings peace, prosperity and happiness. What is even more interesting is that there is never an attempt to imitate nature. A horse or a bull, which might be a vision of a God, impresses him with only one central quality. This central quality is worked upon and given a form. It might be crude but it is this crudity that adds to the beauty of this painting.\nPithora paintings are more of a ritual than an art form. These rituals are performed either to thank God or for a wish or a boon to be granted. The Bhadwa or the head priest of the tribe is summoned and the problems are narrated. These problems can vary from dying cattle, to unwell children in the family. The concerned person is given a solution and is asked, by the Bhadwa, to perform the ritual and the painting. The presence of Pithora Baba is considered as a solution to all the problems. A Pithora is always located at the threshold, or the Osari, outside the first front wall or inside on the walls of the first room as one enters a house. The painting usually floods the entire wall with figures. Three walls are prepared for the painting, the front wall and the two on either side of it. The front or central wall is very large, twice the size of each of the sidewalls. These walls are treated with two layers of cow dung paste and one layer of white chalk powder. Unmarried girls bring in these materials. This procedure is called Lipna. The main wall of the verandah that divides it from the kitchen is considered sacred to the Pithoro. The wall paintings related to the legends of creation and Pithoro, are done on this wall. The two sidewalls of the veranda are also painted with figures of minor deities, ghosts and ancestors.\n"}
{"id": "34504807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34504807", "title": "Pronkstilleven", "text": "Pronkstilleven\n\nPronkstilleven (Dutch for 'ostentatious', 'ornate' or 'sumptuous' still life) is a style of ornate still life painting, which was developed in the 1640s in Antwerp from where it spread quickly to the Dutch Republic. \n\nFlemish artists such as Frans Snyders and Adriaen van Utrecht started to paint still lifes that emphasized abundance by depicting a diversity of objects, fruits, flowers and dead game, often together with living people and animals.\n\nThe style was soon adopted by artists from the Dutch Republic. A leading Dutch representative was Jan Davidsz. de Heem, who spent a long period of his active career in Antwerp and was one of the founders of the style in Holland.\n\nCornelis Norbertus Gijsbrechts developed the style further by incorporating pronkstillevens in the trompe-l'œil compositions for which he was known. An example is his \"\" at the Museum of Fine Arts, Ghent.\n\nPronkstillevens are usually interpreted as a form of vanitas painting that conveys a moral lesson. The various objects in the compositions serve as symbols that can be read as an admonition or a life lesson. The objects usually refer to the transience and emptiness of wealth and possessions and the ultimate extinction and emptiness of earthly life.\n\nFor instance, roses are often used as a vanitas motif, as they recall that all life and earthly beauty are fleeting. Hourglasses are an admonition that life is fleeting and will end. Empty containers such as glasses or vases point to the emptiness of earthly wealth and aspirations. The paintings remind the viewer of the need to practice moderation and temperance.\n"}
{"id": "6392323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6392323", "title": "Public Art Fund", "text": "Public Art Fund\n\nPublic Art Fund is an independent, non-profit arts organization founded in 1977 by Doris C. Freedman. The organization presents contemporary art in New York City's public spaces through a series of highly visible artists' projects, new commissions, installations, and exhibitions that are emblematic of the organization's mission and innovative history.\n\nPublic Art Fund was founded in 1977 by Doris C. Freedman who served as the first Director of New York City's Department of Cultural Affairs, the President of the Municipal Art Society, and a tireless supporter of New York City's Percent for Art legislation. Public Art Fund was born from the merger of two preexisting organizations, CityWalls, which was founded in 1966, and the Public Arts Council, founded in 197). Working with artists and museums, Public Art Fund works to bring artwork outside of traditional spaces and into the public sphere. Since its inception, Public Art Fund has presented more than 500 artists' exhibitions and projects at sites throughout New York City's five boroughs as varied as streets, plazas, parks, buses, billboards, and even major landmarks including Times Square, Rockefeller Center, the Brooklyn Bridge Park, Columbus Circle, and Lincoln Center. Susan K. Freedman has served as president since 1986. Nicholas Baume joined Public Art Fund as Director and Chief Curator in 2009 and Jill Kraus has been Chairman of the Board of Directors since 2011.\n\nIn addition to presenting works of art, Public Art Fund also hosts additional programs including Public Art Fund Talks. This series encompasses discussions and presentations from today's most influential artist. Another program, In the Public Realm, is an open call which allows emerging artist to conceive and develop innovative ideas for public works. Public Art Fund also releases a semi annual magazine and exhibition catalog which provides its audience with a summary of the organizations activities and achievements.\n\nPublic Art Fund has collaborated with many New York City institutions, including the Whitney Museum of American Art for the Whitney Biennial, Outdoors in Central Park(2002, 2004), and the Museum of Modern Art for Francis Alÿs’ \"The Modern Procession\" (2002).\n\nEarly exhibition highlights include Agnes Denes’ \"Wheatfields for Manhattan\" (1982), David Hammons’ \"Higher Goals\" (1986), and \"Messages to the Public\" (1982-1990), a series of projects created for Times Square’s Spectacolor board that featured work by over 70 artists including Jenny Holzer, Keith Haring, Barbara Kruger, Vito Acconci, Lynne Tillman, Alfredo Jaar, Richard Prince, and the Guerilla Girls.\n\nIn the late 1980s and into the 1990s, the organization commissioned socially conscious pieces such as Felix Gonzalez-Torres’ \"“Untitled”\" billboard (1989), Gran Fury’s “Women don’t get AIDS…they just die from it” poster (1991), Guerilla Girls’ billboard project for Public Art Fund’s \"PSA: Public Service Art\" exhibition series (1991), and Barbara Kruger’s \"Bus\" (1997).\n\nIn 1997, Public Art Fund organized Ilya Kabakov's \"Monument to the Lost Glove\", a giant glove made of red plastic resin, which was bolted to the traffic triangle where Fifth Avenueand Broadwaycross at 23rd Street, and worked with him again in 2000 with \"The Palace of Projects\", which was shown at the 69Regiment Armory.\n\nOther New York City projects included Nancy Rubins' \"Big Pleasure Point\" (2006) at Lincoln Center; \"Corner Plot\" (2006) by Sarah Sze at the Doris C. Freedman Plaza; \"Alexander Calder in New York\" at the City Hall Park (2006) ; and \"Material World\" (2005) at the MetroTech Commonsion Downtown Brooklyn, which featured new commissions by Rachel Foullon, Corin Hewitt, Matthew Day Jackson, Peter Kreider, and Mamiko Otsubo.\n\nPublic Art Fund moved into a new territory when it announced it would present 2001 Turner Prize winner Martin Creed's performance art piece, \"Variety Show,\" on March 30, 2007 at the Abrons Arts Centeron the Lower East Side of Manhattan.\n\nRecent exhibition highlights include Olafur Eliasson's \"The New York City Waterfalls\" (2008), which created man-made waterfalls at four sites on New York City’s waterfront; Rob Pruitt's \"The Andy Monument\", a tribute to Andy Warholat Union Square (2011),Tatzu Nishi's \"Discovering Columbus\" (2012), which reimagined the 13-foot-tall statue of Columbus standing in a fully furnished, modern living room;and Jeppe Hein's \"Please Touch the Art\" (2015) at Brooklyn Bridge Park.\n\nIn In 2017, Public Art Fund is celebrating its 40anniversary with the citywide group exhibition \"Commercial Break\", Liz Glynn's \"Open House\" at Doris C. Freedman Plaza, Anish Kapoor's \"Descension\"at Brooklyn Bridge Park, and Ai Weiwei's \"Good Fences Make Good Neighbors\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2447976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2447976", "title": "Recording contract", "text": "Recording contract\n\nA recording contract (commonly called a record contract or record deal) is a legal agreement between a record label and a recording artist (or group), where the artist makes a record (or series of records) for the label to sell and promote. Artists under contract are normally only allowed to record for that label exclusively; guest appearances on other artists' records will carry a notice \"By courtesy of (the name of the label)\", and that label may receive a percentage of sales.\n\nLabels typically own the copyright in the records their artists make, and also the master copies of those records. An exception is when a label makes a distribution deal with an artist; in this case, the artist, their manager, or another party may own the copyright (and masters), while the record is licensed exclusively to the label for a set period of time. Promotion is a key factor in the success of a record, and is largely the label's responsibility, as is proper distribution of records.\n\nWhile initial recording deals usually yield a smaller percentage of royalties to the artists, subsequent (or renegotiated) deals can result in much greater profit, or profit potential. A few acts, such as Madonna, Michael Jackson, R.E.M., U2, and Janet Jackson, among others, have signed multimillion-dollar deals. Whitney Houston signed a $100 million deal with BMG to deliver just six albums, the largest recording deal at the time. Robbie Williams signed an £80m (US$125m) contract with EMI. For many other artists, though, for the millions to become tangible, hit albums meeting or exceeding their previous sales figures must follow. Recording contracts may include opt-out clauses for the label in the event an act's popularity dips or the act releases non-hit albums under the deal. For instance, Mariah Carey was dropped by Virgin Records and her $80 million recording deal cancelled after her first album released by the label sold poorly.\n\nRecord companies put forth huge sums of money to produce, release, and promote an album. Recording time, manufacturing, packaging, photos, distribution, marketing, and music videos are just some of the areas where the label must spend money on an act it has signed. The label usually absorbs these expenses, but in some artists contracts, some of this money may be due back to the label, unless otherwise worded. Advances (upfront money that is paid directly to a recording artist) are normally always owed back to the label. Once (and if) the advance has been paid back from record sales, the artist then begins to see royalty payments for additional sales. Advancing an act money is a risk the label endures as it does not know how well the act's album will sell. Capitol Records suspended Linda Ronstadt's contract in the early 1970s, as Capitol had spent more money on Ronstadt then it had yielded. She continued to tour partly to pay Capitol back for her 1960s deal, and a string of hits in the mid-1970s allowed her to finally clear the debt. Record companies expect to make a profit, and little concern themselves with a given performer's lack of business or financial savvy, as artists such as George Michael have discovered. \"Walking out\" on a deal is very difficult or nearly impossible, as is attempting to strike a new deal without completing an old one. Donna Summer signed a new deal with Geffen Records in 1980, and released an album on Geffen. She was then told by her previous label, Polygram Records, that she owed them another album, per her agreement. She recorded and delivered an album to Polygram that the label released, and it became a hit. Summer then went back to recording for Geffen Records for her next project. The Mamas & the Papas were forced into a reunion, years after their 1968 breakup, by the letter of their Dunhill Records contract, which required one more album to be completed -which became 1971's \"People Like Us\".\n\nRecord companies will generally increase royalty rates or give artistic freedom to get acts to re-sign contracts with them once the original deal has been fulfilled. Established acts may otherwise go where they see better opportunity. During 1980, Diana Ross released her album \"diana\", which fulfilled her contract with Motown Records. The album spawned three US hits (a #1 and two top tens) and sold 10 million copies worldwide. Ross, however, felt she was never fairly compensated by Motown for her work with The Supremes or her solo releases. When RCA Records offered her $20 million to sign with them, Ross gave Motown the chance to match the deal, or at least offer something almost comparable. Motown, believing Ross's solo career was too up-and-down, and not seeing any reason to now compensate her for her earlier Supremes work, offered $3 million. Split with the decision to remain with the label that made her famous, or sign a deal with a company that was willing to pay her what she felt she was worth, she ultimately signed with RCA. That $20 million deal was the biggest recording contract at the time. She had signed with RCA for North America only, she signed a separate longterm contract with Capitol/EMI for international territories. That contractual amount was never officially released. However, it is believed to be as much as $20 more million and she has remained currently signed with them for over 30 years and has produced many more successful recordings internationally including her multi-platinum 1991 release, \"The Force Behind the Power\" and an even greater success with a greatest hits compilation, \"\" that sold over 1.5 million in the United Kingdom alone, spending several weeks at #1.\n\nThere are plenty examples of recording contracts available in music business guides, legal texts and also online.\n\nWhen recordings go out of print, this typically happens because either the label has decided that continuing to sell (or distribute) the record will not be profitable, or the licensing agreement with the artist has expired. (Labels may also stop distribution as a punitive measure, if an artist fails to comply with their contract, or as a strategic measure if negotiations for a new one prove difficult.) Record labels can also become bankrupt like any business, and their masters and copyrights sold or traded as part of their assets. (Occasionally these are purchased by the artists themselves.)\n\nRecording artists signed to a failed label can find themselves in limbo, unable to record for anyone but a company that is out of business (and thus cannot sell or distribute their records), and with their existing works unavailable for sale. When one label \"buys out\" another (or a label is purchased by an outside party), any existing copyrights and contracts held (and masters, if owned by the label) normally go with the sale. This often benefits recording artists, but not always.\n\nDistribution deals are often renewed, but occasionally the label and the copyright owner cannot come to terms for a renewal. The reason is usually that one party expects too much money, or too large a percentage of profits, to suit the other.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50019220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50019220", "title": "Safa Mosque", "text": "Safa Mosque\n\nThe Safa Mosque is a historical mosque in Isfahan, Iran. The mosque was built by Mohammad Golestaneh in the Qajar era and is located near the Shahshahan mausoleum.\n\n"}
{"id": "44575975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44575975", "title": "Sarah Dollard", "text": "Sarah Dollard\n\nSarah Dollard (born 21 January 1980) is an Australian television screenwriter, living and working in the United Kingdom. She made her start in writing for television on the long-running Australian soap opera \"Neighbours\", before moving to the UK in 2008. She created and wrote the Welsh romantic comedy series \"Cara Fi\" (Love Me), which debuted on S4C in 2014. \nDollard worked on \"Neighbours\" for four years, as a storyliner, a script editor, a story editor, and a writer of over thirty episodes. Before leaving Australia, she also worked in script development for popular children's television series \"The Saddle Club\", and in development on other children's shows with the Australian Children's Television Foundation.\nAfter moving to the UK, Dollard began working in the script departments of British fantasy and science fiction TV shows. She worked on season two of BBC One fantasy-adventure series \"Merlin\", before moving on to \"Primeval\" in 2010, where she script-edited seasons four and five of the sci-fi series and wrote all five episodes of the \"Primeval\" web-series that introduced season four.\n\nDollard wrote the fifth episode of the fifth season of Toby Whithouse's popular BBC Three series \"Being Human\", featuring guest star Kathryn Prescott, of \"Skins\" fame. Digital Spy called the episode, titled \"No Care, All Responsibility\", \"the latest in a string of knockout episodes – sweet and chilling in equal measure\". Dollard also penned the webisodes that accompanied \"Being Human\" season five, focusing on the character of Alex Millar, played by Kate Bracken.\n\nShe wrote episode three of BBC spy thriller \"The Game\", and co-wrote episode five with series creator Toby Whithouse. \nDollard created and wrote her own rom-com series \"Cara Fi\" (Love Me) with Touchpaper Television, for the Welsh broadcaster S4C. The eight episode series focuses on a sleepy seaside village in Wales that runs out of women, so the locals advertise their single men on the side of milk cartons leaving the dairy. Each episode focuses on a new woman arriving in the village to be set up with a local man. The show debuted in November 2014 on S4C, and was subsequently on the BBC iPlayer.\n\nIn 2015, she wrote the tenth episode of the ninth series of \"Doctor Who\", titled \"Face the Raven\". She also wrote an episode of the UK-US co-produced comedy-drama \"You, Me and the Apocalypse\", and ITV period drama The Halcyon. She returned to write the episode \"Thin Ice\" for Series 10 of Doctor Who.\n\nIn December 2016 it was announced that Dollard would adapt YA novel \"Cuckoo Song\" for television. Written by Frances Hardinge, the novel was \"the first YA book to win the British Fantasy Awards' top prize and was shortlisted for both the Carnegie Medal and the James Herbert Award\".\n\nIn 2018, she will write for \"A Discovery of Witches\", a television film series based on the novel trilogy of the same name by Deborah Harkness.\n"}
{"id": "49629891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49629891", "title": "Space Group Company", "text": "Space Group Company\n\nSpace Group is an architecture office established in 1999 in Oslo, Norway and created by Gary Bates and Gro Bonesmo. Prior to founding Space Group, they worked with OMA/Rem Koolhaas, which they later on collaborated for the Vestbanen project in Oslo.\n\nThe firm is also known for leading large master plan development and research. One of their current involvement is for the project \"8 million city\"/Station City, connecting Oslo to Copenhagen by train. They were the curator of the Nordic Pavilion at the 14th International Architecture Exhibition at the Venice Biennale in 2014.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33914237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33914237", "title": "Systems-oriented design", "text": "Systems-oriented design\n\nSystems-oriented design (S.O.D.) uses system thinking in order to capture the complexity of systems addressed in design practice. The main mission of S.O.D. is to build the designers' own interpretation and implementation of systems thinking. S.O.D. aims at enabling systems thinking to fully benefit from design thinking and practice, and design thinking and practice to fully benefit from systems thinking. S.O.D. addresses design for human activity systems, and can be applied to any kind of design problem ranging from product design and interaction design, through architecture to decision making processes and policy design.\n\nDesign is getting more and more complex for a number of reasons, for example due to globalization, need for sustainability, and the introduction of new technology and increased use of automation. Many of the challenges designers meet today can be considered wicked problems. The characteristics of a wicked problem include among others that there are no definitive formulation of the problem and that the solutions are never true-or-false, but rather better or worse. A traditional problem solving approach is not sufficient in addressing for such design problems. S.O.D. is an approach that addresses the challenges the designer faces when working with complex systems and wicked problems, providing tools and techniques which makes it easier for the designer to grasp the complexity of the problem at hand. With a systems-oriented approach towards design, the designer acknowledges that the starting point for the design process is constantly moving, and that \"every implemented solution is consequential. It leaves \"traces\" that cannot be undone.\" (see Rittel and Webber's 5th property of wicked problems).\n\nDesigners are well suited to work with complexity and wicked problems for a number of reasons:\n\nS.O.D. emphasizes these abilities as central and seeks to further train the designer in systems thinking and systems practice as a skill and an art.\n\nSystems-oriented design builds on systems theory and systems thinking in order to develop practices for addressing complexity in design. Particularly influential is soft systems methodology (SSM), acknowledging conflicting worldviews and people's purposeful actions, and a systems view on creativity. However, S.O.D. is inspired by critical systems thinking and approaches systems theories in an eclectic way transforming the thoughts of the different theories to fit the design process. The design disciplines build on their own traditions and have a certain way of working with problems, often referred to as \"design thinking\" or \"the design way\". Design thinking is a creative process based around the \"building up\" of ideas. This style of thinking is one of the advantages of the designer and is the reason why simply employing one of the existing systems approach into design, like for example systems engineering, is not found sufficient by the advocates of S.O.D.\n\nCompared with other systems approaches, S.O.D. is less concerned with hierarchies and borders of systems, modelling and feedback loops, and more focused on the whole fields of relations and patterns of interactions. S.O.D. seeks richness rather than simplification of the complex systems.\n\nImportant in the systems-oriented design process is to carry out activities in order to grasp the complexity of the system designed for, and to accommodate for a creative process taking place. In order to gain the necessary understanding of the complex system, a comprehensive data capture and analysis phase is needed. Visualizations play a vital role in the design process, both as a means to analyze and understand the information gathered, and in order to communicate. The obtained insight into the complex system is used to come up with solutions for the design problem.\n\nMethods and techniques from other disciplines are used in order to understand the complexity of the system, including for example ethnographic studies, risk analysis, and scenario thinking. Methods and concepts unique to S.O.D. include for example the Rich Design Space, GIGA-mapping, and Incubation Techniques.\n\nThe Rich Design Space includes the physical space of the design studio with sketches, ideas, mood boards, plans etc. and the virtual digital design space of the design software, media like video and sound recording, traditional design techniques and even the social space created in the project. By paying attention to the richness of the design space, the design space can become a very efficient tool to maintain an overview of the complexity of the project all the way.\n\nGIGA-mapping is the central tool for registering, analyzing and managing complexity in S.O.D.. It is used for systematizing and interrelating the information and knowledge obtained.\n\nIncubation is one of the 4 proposed stages of creativity: preparation, incubation, illumination, and verification. Incubation Techniques are techniques used by the designer in order to acquire the background knowledge needed for an incubation process to take place.\n\nS.O.D. has proved valuable for designers to quickly acquire knowledge of a new domains, and to reveal unexpected parts of a system where a new design can be beneficial.\n\nThe concept of systems-oriented design was initially proposed by professor Birger Sevaldson at the Oslo School of Architecture and Design (AHO) in the context of the OCEAN design research network. The S.O.D. approach is currently under development through teaching and research projects, as well as through the work of design practitioners. AHO provides Master courses in Systems Oriented Design each term as part of their Industrial Design program. In these courses, design students are trained in using the tools and techniques of S.O.D. in projects with outside partners. Research projects in systems-oriented design are carried out at the Centre for Design Research at AHO in order to develop the concept, methods and tools further. In 2016 the project Systemic Approach to Architectural Performance was announced as an institutional cooperation between the Faculty of Art and Architecture at the Technical University of Liberec and the Oslo School of Architecture and Design. Its mission is to link the methodology of systems-oriented design with performance-oriented architecture on the case study Marie Davidova's project Wood as a Primary Medium to Architectural Performance.\nThe Oslo-based design consultancy Halogen (www.halogen.no) has used SOD extensively with a varied range of customers. They have suggested a typology of Gigamaps and contributed with other methodological developments.\nGigamapping and other SOD methods are used by a growing range of businesses and educational institutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52197693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52197693", "title": "Time Bites: Views and Reviews", "text": "Time Bites: Views and Reviews\n\nTime Bites: Views and Reviews is a 2004 collection of essays by Doris Lessing. It contains book reviews, literary criticism and commentaries that have appeared in various works since the 1970s. \n\nBookList wrote \"Most of her conversational, fast-moving, often wry inquiries into literature, politics, and ethics were originally published in England, hence little known in America, a lack redressed in this generous and pleasurable collection. Knowing books as intimately as she does, and caring deeply about reading and writing, Lessing pens critical essays that are vibrant and illuminating, with quotable lines on every page.\" and the Library Journal stated \"Lessing comments cleverly on the classic novelists (e.g., Leo Tolstoy), but some of the most interesting pieces are centered on less well known or virtually forgotten writers. There are quite a few essays on the Sufi author Idries Shah (1924-96); other topics Lessing covers range from politics to cats.\" \n\nKirkus Reviews wrote \"While this collection of random journalism—some dating back to 1974, but most from the past decade—has the inevitable repetitions and a rather scattershot feel, it still gives a nice sense of Lessing’s character and commitments in vigorous old age.\" Publishers Weekly wrote \"The main theme, whether addressed overtly or underlying her literary criticism, is the indispensable place of books in the life of an educated person and an enlightened culture. Hers is a clarion call.\"\n\n\"Time Bites\" has also been reviewed by The New York Review of Books, and The Daily Telegraph.\n"}
{"id": "44448617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44448617", "title": "ToryBoy The Movie", "text": "ToryBoy The Movie\n\nToryBoy The Movie is a 2011 gonzo-style British documentary feature film directed by and starring John Walsh. It follows Walsh as he becomes a political candidate for the Conservative Party in the north east England constituency of Middlesbrough. \n\nA staunch Labour Party supporter all his life, Walsh had become disillusioned with the party. When David Cameron opened the door to allow non party members to run for the Conservative candidacy ahead of the 2010 General Election, John Walsh decided to do just that and document his experiences on camera. He came third in the election; Stuart Bell remained the MP of Middlesbrough, but increased the Conservative vote to its highest in thirty years with an 18.8% share of the vote.\n\nThe film was based on the 72 hours of footage made by Walsh on the campaign trail. It made the case that Labour's Stuart Bell should not be the Member of Parliament (MP) of Middlesbrough, as Bell was absent so often from Middlesbrough that he is an unsuitable candidate. Walsh showed the finished film in a free showing a year after the election. On the \"Who Can I vote For?\" website a humorous warning is given, \"this film contains strong language throughout and scenes of politicians that some viewers may find offensive\".\n\nMike Amesbury appeared in the documentary protesting outside the Conservative conference in Manchester.\n\nWalsh paid homage to the great title designer Saul Bass and recreated his angular animations to create a fresh approach to telling this story. “This map cap comedy best captured the visual style and the transition of the film was making from a serious expose of the political shenanigans in the North East, to a political satire.”\n\nWalsh said that he took a risk making this film in an article with Digital Journal \"For something like this, an investigative film, there will be some who think that I have exceeded my brief as a candidate. I would say that it is right to look at injustice and in this country people have died so that we may all have the right to question those in authority and those in public office.\"\n\n\"The Northern Echo\" discussed the possible of the film forcing a new by election as a result of its findings. Walsh said he had been serious about becoming an MP and had self-funded his £15,000 election campaign. \"When I got to Middlesbrough I found a town that politics had forgotten and a MP who was there in name only, a truly depressingly affair.”\n\nThe film received positive reviews, with a high score of 8.8 on IMDb.\n\nIn 2011 the film was nominated for the Grierson Awards for \"Best Documentary on a Contemporary Theme\". \nThe \"Radio Times\" film review by Jeremy Aspinall on the film's re-release gave it four stars, and called it \"A revealing and droll fly-on-the-wall documentary. It's a fascinating odyssey illuminated by pithily informative animations. Who would have thought politics could be so entertaining?\". \n\nDetails of the film's award nomination was covered by the Middlesbrough \"Teesside Gazette\".\n\n\"The Irish Post\" Walsh’s “documentary about a rookie Conservative candidate aimed to provide an insight into British political culture, and in doing so uncovered the next big political scandal.” \n\nAccording to Richard Moss, the BBC's North East & Cumbria Political editor, \"some silliness aside, it is a thought-provoking insight into the way our political system works or doesn't work on the ground... But I'm not sure he quite nails down a case against Stuart Bell.. And John Walsh doesn't help his case with some of the content in the film.\" Liberal Democrat commentator Mark Pack wrote on his blog that \"John Walsh portrays life on the campaign trail as it really is. It is a hugely enjoyable documentary, which mixes humour, drama and education\". A screening at the Frontline Club took place on 22 November 2011 followed by a Q&A with John Walsh. \"Empire Magazine\" gave it three stars and called it a \"shit stirring exposé of local politics that will make you cross\". Samuel Scott from review site DVD Compare gave it a B- and wrote \"I found this documentary very intriguing and very honest. John is a very likable character, and I wouldn't hesitate in voting for someone with so much passion for a second.\" Doc Geeks commented that the film was \"a blunt exposé combined with a tinge of lightheartedness. Satirical animation cleverly frames Britain in its political context\". On his blog, novelist Christopher Fowler wrote that \"ToryBoy The Movie\" was \"a snapshot of our country’s political apathy in microcosm. It’s heartbreaking to see people blindly supporting their own demise as if they’re playing some kind of long game they’ll probably never live to see the outcome of. Oh, and it’s also very funny.\"\n\nWhen the DVD was released Ben Kamal interviewed Walsh for the Aberdeen student newspaper \"Gaudie\", and wrote \"I was prepared for some careful sneering in the interview and subsequent write-up. This did not (and could not) transpire: firstly because of the film, which comes across as Frank Capra scripted by Evelyn Waugh; secondly because of Walsh himself. He is warm, patient and generous, to my own shock I liked him and if you watch the film you'll like him too.\" \"Dave\", a reviewer at the website 60 Minutes With, wrote \"\"ToryBoy the Movie\" is a fantastic documentary and one in which you will be cheering for John despite what political party you follow. His journey from his Labour roots through to a Tory campaign is superbly documented and will have you both laughing and feeling his frustration in equal measure.\"\n\n\"The Northern Echo\" article by Lucy Richardson she reveals that “at the pre-election hustings, where Sir Stuart does not make an appearance, he tells voters that he will have Sir Stuart jailed before Christmas if elected.”\n\nTwo years after the film release, Lord Michael Ashcroft wrote on his blog: \"I’d defy anyone with an interest in politics not to enjoy this film\". He went on to say that \"despite the zany tone of the film, it also has a hard-hitting message which questions whether one MP in his safe seat, and perhaps other MPs in similar situations, do enough to justify their salary and expenses.\"\n\nIn April 2017 the political Guido Fawkes website also known as Order Order, ran an article entitled “Inside The Greatest Election Scandal of All Time” says that Walsh “lifted the lid on the real-life world of political campaigning.”\n\nVice Mangazine’s Joe Zadeh’s article suggests a link between how Labour in Middlesbrough lost the votes of blue collar people and its shift to the right. He cited ToryBoy The Movie as an example of this shift.\n\nIn a podcast interview with BritFlicks Walsh talks about ToryBoy and the difficulties in making the film and also his plans to develop lost Ray Harryhausen film projects.\n\nAlthough not explicitly inspired by the film, Neil Macfarlane, in a report for local newspaper\"Teesside Gazette\", asked \"Are Teessiders getting enough from Sir Stuart Bell?\" when he failed to answer over 100 telephone calls made to his constituency office. The \"Gazette\" story was picked up by national newspapers. \"The Independent\" asked \"is Sir Stuart Bell Britain's laziest MP?\" The \"Guardian\" fact-checked the \"laziest MP\" claim and found that the laziest MP was Roger Godsiff but the report did confirm that Sir Stuart Bell did not maintain the pivotal role for a MP, an office in their constituency. The Labour Party said it would be totally unacceptable if constituents had been unable to contact their MP. Ed Miliband and the Labour Party expect the highest standards from Labour representatives. It is totally unacceptable if the public cannot reach their MP. \n\nSir Stuart Bell did have a right of reply, which appeared in the short film \"ToryBoy The AfterMath\". The film's expose nearly forced a By Election.\n\nThe film's re-release in 2015 caused more controversy after a showing in Middlesbrough by Teesside University was cancelled to avoid breaching union rules on political neutrality in the run up to the general election. According to Walsh's interview with \"Teesside Gazette\" the film was booked in by the Student Union, but at the last minute the screening was halted. \"I think it's a shame really,\" said Walsh. \"It's a unique opportunity for students to hold me to account.\" Teesside Free Education Campaign activists, writing on the website of the National Campaign Against Fees and Cuts, mentioned the union cancelling the film: \"A few weeks after the student elections, a planned screening of the film Tory Boy, made by the 2010 Tory candidate for Middlesbrough about his experience standing in the area was cancelled, despite having been screened at schools and colleges up and down the country without controversy.\" The North Crowd featured an interview with John Walsh website where they showed the actual print work that was created by the Student Union.\n\nThe film received a re-release in cinemas in 2015 in the lead up to the 2015 UK General Election. \n\nCommunity cinema screenings were given and included a Q&A from Walsh. \n\nAfter a digital download version of the film was made available during the United Kingdom General Election, 2017.\n\nThe film used older film ques from films across the last six decades to create a unique soundscape. \"Radio Times\" described it as \"a fascinating odyssey illuminated by pithily informative animations and music from films like \"It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World\" and \"Midnight Cowboy\".\". Other notable films which provided musical material included: \"King Kong\", \"The Firm\" and \"The Ladykillers\".\n\n\"ToryBoy The Movie\" was issued for the first time on DVD 1 October 2012 by FremantleMedia. It included extras on the making of the film and gave Stuart Bell a right of reply, where he denied the allegations levelled against him in the film. The film was also made available as a high definition download on Vimeo \n\n"}
{"id": "39636272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39636272", "title": "Treatise on Law", "text": "Treatise on Law\n\nTreatise on Law is St. Thomas Aquinas' major work of legal philosophy. It forms questions 90–108 of the \"Prima Secundæ\" (\"First [Part] of the Second [Part]\") of the \"Summa Theologiæ\", Aquinas' masterwork of Scholastic philosophical theology. Along with Aristotelianism, it forms the basis for the legal theory of Catholic canon law.\n\nAquinas defines a law as \"an ordinance of reason for the common good, made by him who has care of the community, and promulgated.\"\n\nLaw is an ordinance of reason because it must be reasonable or based in reason and not merely in the will of the legislator. It is for the common good because the end or \"telos\" of law is the good of the community it binds, and not merely the good of the lawmaker or a special interest group. It is made by the proper authority who has \"care of the community\", and not arbitrarily imposed by outsiders. It is promulgated so that the law can be known.\n\nHe says: \n\nStrictly speaking, this is a definition of human law. The term \"law\" as used by Aquinas is equivocal, meaning that the primary meaning of law is \"human law\", but other, analogous concepts are expressed with the same term.\n\nNatural law or the law of nature refers to normative properties that are inherent by virtue of human nature and universally cognizable through human reason. Historically, natural law refers to the use of reason to analyze both social and personal human nature to deduce binding rules of moral behavior. The law of nature, being determined by nature, is universal.\n\nFor Aquinas, human law is only valid if it conforms to natural law. If a law is unjust, then it is not actually a law, but a \"perversion of law\".\n\nThe \"Treatise on Law\" (as part of the Summa Theologica) is divided into Articles (or broad topics) and Questions (or specific topics). The Questions each argue for a single thesis and defend it against objections. The division is as follows:\n\n1. IN GENERAL\n\n2. IN PARTICULAR\n\nWilliam S. Brewbacker III has called it \"perhaps the most famous of metaphysical legal texts”, while Robert M. Hutchins declared it “that greatest of all books on the philosophy of law”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28989035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28989035", "title": "Tritagonist", "text": "Tritagonist\n\nIn literature, the tritagonist or tertiary main character (from , \"tritagōnistḗs\", third actor) is the third most important character of a narrative, after the protagonist and deuteragonist. In ancient Greek drama, the tritagonist was the third member of the acting troupe.\n\nAs a character, a tritagonist may act as the instigator or cause of the sufferings of the protagonist. Despite being the least sympathetic character of the drama, he or she occasions the situations by which pity and sympathy for the protagonist are excited.\n\nThe part of the tritagonist emerged from earlier forms of two-actor drama. Where two actors only allowed for a principal character and their adversary, moving the part of adversary to a third actor (the tritagonist) allowed for the second actor (the deuteragonist) to play roles as a confidant or aide to the principal character, and thereby elicit greater character depth from the principal character by having the protagonist explain their feelings and motivations to an on-stage listener. As Ancient Greek theater recitations were partly melodic, the role of the tritagonist would typically go to a performer with a voice in the bass range (as compared to the protagonist as tenor and the deuteragonist as baritone). Cicero, in his \"Divinatio in Caecilium\", reported that the tritagonist (being a role of lesser importance than the protagonist) would often have to subdue his voice if he was naturally stronger than the protagonist.\n\nNotable Ancient Greek actors who worked in this role include the orator Aeschines, who was held by Demosthenes to have been untalented as a tritagonist, and Myniscus, who was tritagonist under the playwright Aeschylus.\n\nIn some forms of Greek theater, it was traditional for the tritagonist to enter the stage from the left.\n"}
{"id": "14485353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14485353", "title": "Tutima", "text": "Tutima\n\nTutima Uhrenfabrik GmbH Ndl. Glashütte is a German watchmaker established in 1927 in Glashütte, Saxony. \n\nTheir products include analog chronographs of high precision, including pilot's watches (\"Fliegerchronograph\"), which are standard military equipment of NATO and Luftwaffe pilots.\n\nTutima has four product lines made in Glashütte: Saxon One, M2, Grand Flieger, and Patria.\n\nTutima Germany is registered with HRB 140173 at Amtsgericht Delmenhorst and is a member of Industrie und Handelskammer Oldenburg. The brand Tutima has been registered since 7 April 1970. Tutima USA, Inc., an independent company, is based in Torrance, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38942527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38942527", "title": "Whirligig Theatre", "text": "Whirligig Theatre\n\nWhirligig Theatre is a British theatre company based in London. It presents full-length musicals and plays in London and on tour.\nWhirligig was founded in 1979 by David Wood and John Gould. Its first production was the musical, \"The Plotters of Cabbage Patch Corner\" at Sadler's Wells Theatre, London.\n"}
{"id": "18973344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18973344", "title": "William Blake's Illustrations of the Book of Job", "text": "William Blake's Illustrations of the Book of Job\n\nWilliam Blake's \"Illustrations of the Book of Job\" primarily refers to a series of twenty-two engraved prints (published 1826) by Blake illustrating the biblical Book of Job. It also refers to two earlier sets of watercolours by Blake on the same subject (1806 and 1821). The engraved \"Illustrations\" are considered to be Blake's greatest masterpieces in the medium of engraving, and were also a rare commercial and critical success for Blake.\n\nAs early as 1785 Blake had sketched several ink studies of an illustration to Job. In 1793 Blake engraved a composition based upon these drawings, which he offered for sale in the \"Prospectus to the Public\" for twelve shillings. This, alongside an engraving of Ezekiel, are the only extant examples of an intended series of biblical illustrations that were never completed. Blake reworked the Job plate sometime after 1804, but the resulting print was not included in the \"Illustrations\".\n\nBlake's next illustration was the tempera painting \"Job and his Daughters\" (1800), commissioned by Thomas Butts (see gallery below). This has similarities to plate 20 of the engraved illustrations, but it is unclear whether the print was directly based upon it.\n\nThe engraved illustrations to Job originated as a series of watercolours that Blake painted in 1805-6, also for Butts. These 19 watercolours are referred to as the \"Butts Set\" (in the collection of the Morgan Library & Museum).\n\nA second set of watercolours, known as the \"Linell Set\" (mostly in the collection of the Fogg Art Museum) was produced in 1821 at the request of John Linell. Linell traced the watercolours from the \"Butts set\"; these tracings were then coloured in by Blake. As a result of this unusual process, the outlines of the \"Linell set\" are thicker and the colouring is uniformly darker, with a more restricted palette than the \"Butts set\". Blake also added two new designs to the \"Linell set\", and added copies of these to the Butts set. The two designs added were No.s 17 and 20, \"The Vision of Christ\" and \"Job and His Daughters\".\n\nThere is also another set of watercolours known as the \"New Zealand Set\". These were initially believed to be from Blake's hand, but their authenticity has been all but refuted by scholars such as Martin Butlin and Bo Lindberg. They are most likely copies after the engravings by someone in the circle of John Linell, as they have no unique features.\n\nIn 1823 Linell formally commissioned Blake to engrave plates for printing. Unlike Blake's own productions in relief etching, this, like other commissioned work, was produced using the intaglio method of engraving. However, Blake rejected the \"mixed method\" popular among commercial reproductive engravers of his time. The \"mixed method\" entailed lightly etching guidelines into the plate. The image was then engraved by the dot and lozenge method and by stippling. Instead, Blake engraved his illustrations in pure line and without preliminary etching.\n\nThe engravings were completed in 1825, and an edition of 315 was produced in 1826. These were the last set of illustrations that Blake would complete. His illustrations of Dante's \"Divine Comedy\" were left unfinished upon his death.\n\nThe completed engravings differ from Blake's original watercolours mainly in the complex marginal designs that they employ. These comment upon the text with biblical quotes and paraphrases, and also contain images that reinforce the themes of the main illustrations.\n\nAfter completing the engravings, Blake painted an additional tempera of \"Satan Smiting Job with Boils\" in 1826.\n\nThe \"Book of Job\" was an important influence upon Blake's writings and art; Blake apparently identified with Job, as he spent his lifetime unrecognized and impoverished. Harold Bloom has interpreted Blake's most famous lyric, \"The Tyger\", as a revision of God's rhetorical questions in the Book of Job concerning Behemoth and Leviathan. Blake also depicted the story of Job throughout his career as an artist. The song of Enion in Night the Second of \"The Four Zoas\" also demonstrates that Blake identified with Job.\nBlake used symbols extensively in the illustrations; most notable is the use of right and left limbs in the figures. The right limb represents the spiritual and the good; the left, the material and evil. In plate six, Satan smites Job with boils using his left hand, and in plate 15 God indicates Behemoth and Leviathan with his left hand. Contrarily, God banishes Satan with his right hand in plate sixteen and speaks to Job from the whirlwind in plate fourteen with his right foot extended forward. Some scholars, however, have asserted that this systematic interpretation fails to account for inconsistencies in such symbolism and is excessively subjective.\n\nThe Hebrew incorporated in the Butts watercolor \"Job's Evil Dreams\" and in the engravings \"title\" plate and plate numbered 2 \"Hast thou considered my Servant Job\" is analyzed in 'Blake's Hebrew Calligraphy.' \n\nThe theme of an Orthodox Jewish ritual used in the composition of plate numbered 17 \"I have heard thee with the hearing of the Ear but now my Eye seeth thee\" is explained in 'Blake's Priestly Blessing: God Blesses Job.' \n\nFrom early in his artistic career, Blake collected the prints of Albrecht Dürer. The depiction of Behemoth in plate 15 of the engravings is believed to have been influenced by \"Dürer's Rhinoceros\".\n\nIn his \"Public Address\" (possibly from 1810), Blake also indicates \"Marc Antonio\" (Marcantonio Raimondi), as an artist who inspired his linear technique of engraving. \"Julio Romano\" (Giulio Romano), Raphael, and Michelangelo are also mentioned by Blake in this address.\n\nOf the edition of 315, only 20 copies of the illustrations were sold in Blake's lifetime, mostly to people within Blake's immediate circle (such as Samuel Palmer). However, the \"Illustrations\" brought Blake an unprecedented degree of recognition. The Royal Academy and the King's Library each bought a copy; the former also awarded Blake £25. Such notables as John Constable and Lady Caroline Lamb invited him to dine, and the collector Charles Alders introduced him to Samuel Taylor Coleridge. The \"Illustrations\" also gained critical acknowledgment after Blake's death more quickly than his prophetic books. As early as 1857 John Ruskin wrote of Blake in \"The Elements of Drawing\" that The \"Book of Job\", engraved by himself, is of the highest rank in certain characters of imagination and expression; in the mode of obtaining certain effects of light it will also prove a very useful example to you. In expressing conditions of glaring and flickering light, Blake is greater than Rembrandt.\n\nThe triple-mirror design in the background of plate 20, \"Job and his Daughters\", is believed to have influenced William Holman Hunt's use of the same motif in his painting \"The Lady of Shalott\"; Blake was highly regarded by the Pre-Raphaelites.\n\nRalph Vaughan Williams based his ballet \"\" (first staged in 1931) upon the \"Illustrations\".\nBlake did not give titles to the illustrations and the most prominent text in the margins is used by some scholars (such as S. Foster Damon) as a title for a given illustration. Others, such as Robert Essick, use descriptive titles. Therefore, both are given here. In some cases the titles are the same.\n\nNote that Blake's marginal texts are paraphrases of biblical passages and so will not be exactly identical to the linked verse.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33546671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33546671", "title": "William Farquhar Collection of Natural History Drawings", "text": "William Farquhar Collection of Natural History Drawings\n\nThe William Farquhar Collection of Natural History Drawings consists of 477 watercolour botanical drawings of plants and animals of Malacca and Singapore by unknown Chinese (probably Cantonese) artists that were commissioned between 1819 and 1823 by William Farquhar (26 February 1774 – 13 May 1839). The paintings were meant to be of scientific value with very detailed drawings, except for those of the birds which have text going beyond their original purpose. For each drawing, the scientific and/or common name of the specimen in Malay, and, occasionally, in English, was written in pencil. A translator also penned the Malay names in Jawi using ink. The paper used was normally European paper framed by a blue frame while some have no frames at all suggesting there are two artist.\n\nDuring his tenure as Resident and Commandant of Singapore, Farquhar hired a group of professionally trained Chinese artists from Macau (as described by Munshi Abdullah ) to paint watercolours of the flora and fauna of the Malay Peninsula. Farquhar donated these in eight volumes to the Museum of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland on 17 June 1826. In 1937, the Society lent six of the volumes to the Library of the British Museum (Natural History) (now the Library of the Natural History Museum), retaining the two volumes of botanical drawings in its own library. In 1991 the Natural History Museum returned the works to the Society for valuation, and on 20 October 1993 the Society offered them for sale by auction at Sotheby's in London, where they were acquired by Goh Geok Khim, founder of the brokerage firm GK Goh, for S$3 million. Goh donated the drawings to the National Museum of Singapore in 1995. As at 2011, the collection was believed to be worth at least $11 million. In 2011, 70 works from the collection were placed on permanent display in the Goh Seng Choo Gallery of the museum, named for Goh's father.\n\nDue to the variable quality of work done by some artists, some drawings have proved difficult to identify. Nonetheless, botanists have identified some of these problematic drawings, one a drawing of a male Raffles's malkoha in which the breast is too yellow. Others which have yet to be identified include a drawing of a climber similar to \"Smilax\". Plate 29 of the collection inscription reads \"Soogow\", probably a misspelling of \"saga\". However, the drawing shows little resemblance to the latter.\n\nHistorians suggest that many of the backdrops of the drawings were copied from drawing manuals. One such example is a drawing of the greater mousedeer, the background of which shows a leafless climber attached to a rock. Some scholars query this, as mousedeer do not live in such rocky habitats. This suggests that either the artists did not visit the habitat of the subject, or, if they did, that they were not particularly observant.\n\nIn the book Natural History Drawings: The Complete William Farquhar Collection, Malay Peninsula 1803–1818 an article by Kwa Chong Guan suggest that there were two artist, one usually frames his works as seen in the illustration of the durian and one who does the opposite of the latter. Usually, the artist who draws a frame around his work does show fungi like shaped rocks while the other takes the rocks in its own natural form also the artist who draw frames usually has drawings of trees with its roots spread out while the other has its roots in a clenched like manner.\n\nThe works were published in two volumes, the first being,\"The William Farquhar Collection of Natural History Drawings\", published in 1999 showing 141 of these illustrations. A second version containing prints of all 477 works in the Farquhar collection was published by Editions Didier Millet and the National Museum of Singapore in 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36586999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36586999", "title": "World Sensorium", "text": "World Sensorium\n\nWorld Sensorium is a natural and inclusive world scent, a work of olfactory art by interdisciplinary artist Gayil Nalls, who is based in New York. A large-scale conceptual project and social sculpture, the world scent comprises the most culturally significant scents of 225 countries combined proportionally according to the statistical population data of the year 2000. \"World Sensorium\" has been recognized by UNESCO and the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities as a global peace project and has been internationally exhibited in large public events, museums and galleries since its creation in 1999.\n\nThe research for the creation of \"World Sensorium\" established smells from natural flora that triggered olfactory memory for the majority of people of each nation, with the goal of interpreting the relationship between world flora and human numbers on earth, and to bring new awareness of the living world and its influence on the human spirit and psyche. Through this work, Nalls has sought to foster an understanding of the larger evolutionary social construct of knowledge we share with others via the senses.\n\nThe project of \"World Sensorium\" can be categorized as a contribution to the genres of Olfactory Art and Aesthetics, Participatory art, and environmental art and functions along the trajectories of avant-garde and political or activist art.\n\nNalls envisioned this concept for a “world scent” in 1989, eleven years prior to its completion and debut release. She describes the moment of inspiration for the formula as having occurred on December 28 of that year at the Brandenberg Gate, as the crowd pulled her on top of the Berlin Wall. As the connectivity passed through the bodies gathered, she envisioned a formula for \"World Sensorium\" where everyone would be counted.\n\n\"World Sensorium\" was created for the aesthetic of mass anatomy to evoke global memory and to evolve a metabolic collective. Permutatude Theory and science form a significant background to the ongoing project, as do the processes of cultural transformation and globalization. As a theoretical construct, conceived to be an embodied consciousness of “one world” the olfactory sculpture critically engages individuals with their sense of smell, often in performative settings.\n\nHistorical scents of all the countries of the world, culturally significant in medicine, mythology, the arts, anthropology, spiritual practices, diet and memory were identified based on survey research to obtain quantitative information that supplied the raw data for the creation of the scent, establishing the constituent natural plant oils “from tree, flower, grass or herb”. \nMany of the plants were identified in local vernacular and required additional research to verify the Latin or English names. In some instances an English name did not exist. “Nalls located botanical taxonomy scholars from the New York Botanical Garden and ethno-botanists from the National Tropical Botanical Garden in Hawaii to assist in properly identifying the botanical names” materials which had been referred to in colloquial terms such as, Senegal: Gowe (Cyperus articulatus), no English name, and American Samoa: Mos’oi (Cananga odorata), English name Ylang-ylang.\n\n“The goal was to have to have each flora’s complex molecular compositions represented in its entirety so as to be perceived by humans as closely as it would if it were experienced in its habitat, in order to evoke the same psychological ad emotional responses, and neurological and immune functions as in the traditions of the culture.” To this end all raw materials were derived straight from botanical sources by means of distillation or extraction.\n\nThe composition of these ingredients was based on projected population percentages for each individual country for the year 2000. Everyone was counted.\n\nIn her quantitative research, Nalls crossed political boundaries in dialog with “countries the United States doesn’t get along with, such as Iran (rose), Iraq (date palm) Libya (orange blossom) and Cuba (tobacco).”\n\nIn some cases, communications spanned several months, but an especially “poignant moment in the creation of \"World Sensorium\" was the day the representative from the Israeli Embassy in Washington and the Palestinian representative from the united Nations called Nalls by phone within minutes of each other to report that their national choices were both the Olive tree because of its long revered association with peace.”\n\nIn 1998, in recognition of Nalls’ outstanding creative achievement, \"World Sensorium\" was endorsed by the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities and was granted sponsorship by the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) as an original cultural initiative building goodwill and peace in conjunction with the United Nation's International Year for Culture of Peace. In his letter to Nalls, Director-General, Dr. Federico Mayor, a brain biochemist, said that \"World Sensorium\" is a “highly original cultural initiative” that “will certainly contribute to creating a climate of goodwill and peace at this memorable moment in time” leading to “understanding and collaboration among nations”.\n\nWith \"World Sensorium\" and more recent works, Nalls has advanced concepts of aesthetics to consider the olfactory sense over the historically privileged sense of vision. While the visual remains dominant, artists have and are now increasingly working with the sense of smell to produce emotionally and phenomenologically resonant works in the emergent genre of Olfactory Art. Nalls “like many other olfactory artists, uses only natural fragrances and essential oils. “I call it ‘rewilding the mind,’” she says.\n\nFor Nalls, the connection between olfaction and social or participatory art is rooted in the evolutionary biology of the sense of smell. As the oldest sense, olfaction has the uncanny ability to trigger memory (individual and collective), and its significant role in chemosensory communication is critical to the collective action that is necessary for participatory social and art processes. \n\"World Sensorium\" is a participatory project in its all-inclusive ethos, Nalls’ intention for its en masse experience, and in its very creation which at times required to assistance of volunteers to gather the phytogenic materials. “Randia aculeata an ingredient from the Netherlands Antilles, could only be found locally in Florida. A team was rushed to the site before Hurricane Lenny came in and swept through the area.” to harvest the leaves.\n\nIn its use of extant culturally significant plant materials, Nalls advances the advant-garde notion that art should be brought closer to the praxis of life. \"World Sensorium\" is all-inclusive in its conception–a reflection of actual human-plant relations, making every experience of \"World Sensorium\" a connection to the world's collective ecology and human consciousness. When experienced en masse as in Times Square, Nalls initiated a collective metabolic experience, and introduced a universal language for cross-cultural efforts toward peace, by evoking our co-evolution with nature. Ken Johnson called \"World Sensorium\" a \"utopian project\" and \"an olfactory metaphor for world unity\" by an \"earnest and rather grandiose conceptualist\".\n\n\nAdditionally \"World Sensorium\" has been shown in group exhibitions in the United States, England, Sweden and Slovenia.\n"}
