{"id": "55898953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55898953", "title": "2010 Hong Kong democracy protests", "text": "2010 Hong Kong democracy protests\n\nThe 2010 Hong Kong democracy protests reflect the growing force of the pro-democracy movement, and were sparked by events that year including electoral reforms and the arrest of a high-profile Chinese activist, Liu Xiaobo. The democracy movements of 2010 can be seen as a precursor to the events of the 2014 Umbrella Revolution.\n\nHong Kong, as a former British colony, was reunified with mainland China in 1997 under the concept of “One Country, Two Systems”. While originally a concept with no legal power, a committee consisting of 59 members from different backgrounds and industries joined together after the signing of Sino-British Joint Declaration to create the basic laws of the new Hong Kong under China based on the ideas stipulated in the Declaration and thus gave national legitimacy to the concept. Effective July 1, 1997, Hong Kong was to be treated as fully autonomous from mainland China. This is followed in the Declaration by the promise that “[Hong Kong] will remain unchanged for 50 years”, until 2047.\n\nHong Kong’s chief executive is chosen by an 800-member committee, while its legislature of 60 is half elected and half chosen by interest groups called functional constituencies, While a democratic style of government election is promised in Hong Kong’s constitution, China ruled in 2007 that Hong Kong cannot directly elect a leader until 2017 and its legislature until 2020.\n\nAccording to figured offered by the Hong Kong police, 9000 people marched to Beijing’s representative office. Organizers claim that more than 30,000 protesters turned up to reignite the democracy movement at times when locals were preoccupied with economic issues. A diverse group of organizations joined the march but largely aligned themselves with three headline causes: 'true' universal suffrage, abolition of the small-circle functional constituencies, and freedom for Chinese dissident Liu Xiabo. The exception was protesters opposing the location of a Hong Kong connection to the Mainland's national high-speed rail network through a New Territories village. Protesters carried out colorful banners such as “Democracy Now!” Some demonstrators held aloft portraits of Liu Xiaobo, demanding the release of the prominent writer and activist. Hundreds of police erected steel barricades and with minor scuffles when they tried to prevent a small number of protesters from storming the office. New year marches are a fixture on the political calendar in Hong Kong.\n\nMore than 3000 people marched from Victoria Park to the Central Government Offices to demand full democracy in Hong Kong in the May 2nd Protest. In January 2010, the Five Constituencies Referendum triggered a by-election when five pan-democrats stepped down. The protest happened a couple of weeks before the scheduled by-election on 16 May 2010, during which few politicians tried to turn it into a referendum on political reform that unsurprisingly failed.\n\nJuly 1st protests are annual protest rallies originally held by the Civil Human Rights Front. The holiday commemorates the day of handover from the United Kingdom to China in 1997 and the establishment of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. The July 1st march in 2010 was the first public march for democracy in Hong Kong after the unprecedented acceptance by Beijing of a limited democratic reform proposal by the Democratic Party under a document titled the 'Consultation Document on the Methods for Selecting the Chief Executive and for Forming the LegCo in 2012'. While this was seen by a step forward for Hong Kong, many were disappointed in the pan-democracy camp for going back on their word to settle for something less than pure universal suffrage. As a result, approximately 52,000 people took part in the protest. An anniversary parade was organized by opposition pro-government groups, attended by 2000 people. Several hundred democratic party members faced verbal abuse and chants such as “shame on you” and “you betrayed Hong Kong’s people” throughout the march to the Hong Kong government headquarters for selling out to Beijing.\n\nIn January 10, five legislators from the Civic Party and the League of Social Democrats, one from each of Hong Kong’s electoral districts resigned their seats as a part of the ‘Five Constituencies Resignation’ concept for meaningful political reform. Albert Chan, Alan Leong, Tanya Chan, “Longhair” Leung Kwok-hung, and Wong Yuk-man resigned from the Legislative Council of Hong Kong. The intention was to trigger by-elections by pitting pro-democracy candidates against pro-China ones in hopes for a de facto referendum on full democracy. However, the Basic Law of Hong Kong does not provide for official referenda. Their resignations were submitted on 26 January 2010, with effect on 29 January 2010. They resigned in spite of Beijing warning them not to, Chief Executive Donald Tsang claimed that the “so-called referendum” had no legal grounding. The by-elections were nevertheless held on 16 May 2010. Following a boycott by the pro-government parties, the five who resigned were returned to the Legislative Council by voters. The by-election was criticized as a waste of taxpayers’ money.\n\nProtesters called for the release of the Chinese activist Liu Xiaobo, who was detained on 8 December 2008. He was formally arrested and sentenced to eleven years of imprisonment and two years’ deprivation of political rights on 25 December 2009 for “inciting subversion of state power” in the manifesto he co-authored, Charter 08.\n\nThe Central Government unveiled a package of electoral reforms, calling for 10 new seats in the legislature from 60 to 70 of which 40 will be directly elected, the first time a majority of seats will be determined by popular vote. It also called for an extra 400 people to be added to the 800-member committee that nominates and elects the Chief Executive. The bill requires a vote of 40, or a two-thirds majority threshold to pass. Hong Kong’s Legislative Council passed the bill on 25 June 2010 with 46 lawmakers, including moderates, in favor. 12 others, including members from the League of Social Democrats and all five members of the Civic Party, voted against it. Opponents view that the bill does not go far enough and does not set any concrete roadmap for Hong Kong’s universal suffrage, leaving uncertainty. The pan-democracy camp attacked the conservative proposals as a rehash of those already rejected in 2005, but the Hong Kong government under Donald Tsang said its proposals were “more democratic”, and could not exceed what was authorized by Beijing. The pan-democratic party was split when The Democratic Party opted to vote with the Beijing government, parting company with the Civic Party and the League of Social Democrats. The Chief Executive assented on 29 June 2010, and China’s parliament ratified the decision on 28 August. It was the first time Hong Kong's legislature had passed major reforms to electoral arrangements since the city reverted from British to Chinese rule in 1997. A previous attempt in 2005 was voted down by opposition democrats.\n\nBeijing was wary of upsurges of public discontent in Hong Kong. The Chinese government did not immediately comment after the resignation of five legislators, but it criticized the resignation plan in a statement afterwards, calling it a challenge to authority.\n\n"}
{"id": "4424593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4424593", "title": "All-National Congress of the Chechen People", "text": "All-National Congress of the Chechen People\n\nThe All-National Congress of the Chechen People (NCChP) of the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria came to power on 1 November 1991 under president Dzhokhar Dudayev, a former commander of the Soviet air force base in Tartu, Estonia. Since its formation, the organization advocated sovereignty for Chechnya as a separate republic within the Soviet Union. During the period of Soviet breakup, it switched this to explicit support for the separation of \"Ichkeria\" from Russia. \n\nOn 7 September 1991, the NCChP National Guard seized government buildings and the radio and television center. They stormed a session of the Chechen-Ingush ASSR Supreme Soviet, which caused the death of the Soviet Communist Party chief for Grozny, Vitali Kutsenko, who was either thrown out of a window or fell trying to escape, and effectively dissolved the government of the Chechen-Ingush ASSR. Between 1992 and 1994 and again from 1996 until 1999 Chechnya was \"de facto\" an independent state. \n\n"}
{"id": "49918743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49918743", "title": "Almanac of American Philanthropy", "text": "Almanac of American Philanthropy\n\nThe Almanac of American Philanthropy is a reference book published by the nonprofit Philanthropy Roundtable in 2016 to capture the history, purpose, effects, and modern direction of private philanthropy in the United States. Philanthropy in the U.S. is a major part of the economy with $360 billion given every year and 8 billion hours of time volunteered. Philanthropy is a major cultural force in the U.S., handling many social responsibilities, thanks to individual giving levels that are two to twenty times higher than in other comparable nations.\n\n\"The Almanac\" records the achievements of American philanthropy, profiles influential donors, presents statistics and polling results, lists books and recommended readings in the field, provides a selection of philanthropy quotations, and summarizes modern approaches to charitable giving in the United States.\n\nThree thousand copies of the \"Almanac\" were distributed to academic and public libraries and 13,000 copies were sent to donors and U.S. foundations worth at least $50 million. Hard copies of the book are available for sale on Amazon for $25, but its content is also available for free online.\n\nThe \"Almanac of American Philanthropy\" chronicles 380 years of private giving in America. Jeff Jacoby of \"The Boston Globe\" called the \"Almanac\" \"the first definitive work on the history, variety, and impact of private giving in the United States.\" Its sections include:\n\n\nThe \"Orange County Register\" wrote that the \"Almanac\" \"shatters myths about the stinginess of the wealthy and bleeding-heart liberals’ monopoly on compassion.\" \"Booklist\", published by the American Library Association, reviewed the \"Almanac\" this way: \"This comprehensive, current, accurate, well-organized reference on private giving in the U.S. contains sections on our greatest givers, past and present, and major achievements from 1636 to 2015. The volume's very reasonable cost (for 1,300+ pages) enhances the reference value... Recommended.\"\n\nKarl Zinsmeister created the \"Almanac of American Philanthropy\" for the Philanthropy Roundtable. He has authored eleven books, including works on charter schools and public policy philanthropy, embedded reporting on the Iraq War, and a Marvel Comics nonfiction graphic novel. He has written for publications including the \"Wall Street Journal\", the \"New York Times\", and the \"Atlantic\", and he produced a PBS documentary film.\n\n"}
{"id": "47630006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47630006", "title": "Authentic Croatian Peasant Party", "text": "Authentic Croatian Peasant Party\n\nThe Authentic Croatian Peasant Party () is a centre-right political party in Croatia.\n\nAuthentic Croatian Peasant Party was founded in Zagreb on 14 March 2007. First party president was Jasenko Stipac.\n\nThe party refers to the tradition of Stjepan Radić's HPSS.\n\nAccording to the Party's statute \"it is in particular committed to the promotion of the interests of farmers, workers, and intelligence of the Croatian nation\". Party's values are \"honesty, faith, family, patriotism and labor.\"\n\nAhead of the 2015 parliamentary election the party joined the ruling centre to centre-left Kukuriku coalition led by the Social Democratic Party of Croatia.\n"}
{"id": "2303324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303324", "title": "Basic Rights Oregon", "text": "Basic Rights Oregon\n\nBasic Rights Oregon is an American nonprofit LGBT rights organization based in Portland, Oregon. It is the largest advocacy, education, and political organization working in Oregon to end discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. Basic Rights Oregon has a full-time staff, a contract lobbyist, and more than 10,000 contributors, and 5,000 volunteers. It is a 501(c)(4) organization that maintains a 501(c)(3) education fund, a state candidate PAC and a ballot measure PAC. The organization is a member of the Equality Federation.\n\nOregon Citizens Alliance (OCA), an organization that opposed LGBT rights, successfully backed the passage of a 1988 ballot measure revoking the ban on sexual-orientation discrimination in the state's executive branch. In 1992, when OCA proposed a ballot measure to prohibit the \"encouragement\" of homosexual lifestyles in public schools, Oregonians who supported LGBT rights raised over $2 million and were successful in defeating the measure. OCA continued to promote similar measures at the local level and promised another statewide ballot in 1994. In response activists pressured for a stable political organization and formed Support Our Communities-PAC (SOC-PAC) in 1993. The following year, SOC-PAC successfully organized the opposition to another OCA proposal, a ballot measure to ban the recognition of homosexuals as a minority group. Oregon Ballot Measure 9, in the year 2000, would have prevented any positive or neutral language from being used by educators or administrators in all Oregon public schools from Kindergarten through Ph.D. (https://ballotpedia.org/Oregon_Prohibition_of_Public_School_Instruction_on_Homosexual_Behaviors,_Measure_9_(2000).\n\nBasic Rights Oregon held its first meetings in 1995 and became a 501(c)(4) organization in 1996.\n\nIn 1999, Basic Rights launched the Fair Workplace Project, which was designed to increase the number of employers voluntarily adopting nondiscrimination policies.\n\nIn 2002, Basic Rights Oregon endorsed Democratic candidate Bill Bradbury for election to the United States Senate, opposing the Human Rights Campaign, a national LGBT rights organization, which endorsed the re-election of the Republican incumbent Gordon H. Smith.\n\nIn 2004, Basic Rights Oregon, nine same-sex couples, the American Civil Liberties Union, and Multnomah County joined as plaintiffs against the State of Oregon, the Governor, the Attorney General, the Director of the Department of Human Services, and the State Registrar in a suit, \"Li v. State\", in the Oregon Supreme Court seeking a declaration that the statutes (ORS chapter 106) prohibiting same-sex couples from marrying on the same terms as different-sex couples violated the Oregon Constitution.\n\nIn 2004, Basic Rights Oregon worked against Ballot Measure 36, which amended the Oregon Constitution to prohibit same-sex marriage. Although Basic Rights Oregon raised nearly $3 million to fight the measure, it passed with 57% in favor and 43% opposed. Following this loss, Basic Rights Oregon hired its first team of field organizers and pushed nondiscrimination ordinances in Washington County, Bend, Hillsboro, and Wasco County.\n\nIn 2007, Basic Rights led the lobbying effort to pass the Oregon Equality Act and the Oregon Family Fairness Act.\n\nIn 2012, following years of education and collaboration with Basic Rights Oregon, the state Insurance Division issued a bulletin banning many private insurers from selling discriminatory policies in Oregon.\n\nIn 2015, in the wake of the Supreme Court ruling on Marriage Equality, Basic Rights Oregon adopted a new strategic direction for 2015-2020. The new strategic direction seeks to center the voices of LGBTQ people of color, of rural and religious LGBTQ Oregonians, and of transgender and gender non-conforming Oregonians.\n\nIn 2015, Oregon became the third state to ban the discredited practice of Conversion therapy on minors. Basic Rights Oregon worked to pass HB2307, the Youth Mental Health Protection Act, which was signed into law by Gov. Kate Brown, the nations only out Bi-sexual governor.\n\nIn 2017 Oregon passed HB 2673A - effective January 1, 2018 - simplifying the process for changing the name on a birth certificate, and also establishing a gender amendment process for transgender citizens. The revisions provide less expensive, more private and simpler transactions. The Department of Motor Vehicles also changed its procedure for gender changes on IDs, allowing Oregonians to self-certify gender change without input from their health provider. Furthermore, effective July 1, 2017, the DMV made Oregon the first state in the country to recognize non-binary identities. The third marker on IDs is \"X\", for \"not specified.\"\n\nAs of January 1, 2018, contractors working with the state of Oregon must have in place policies and practices which prohibit discrimination against their LGBTQ employees. The sponsor of the successful bill, HB 3060, was Rep. Ann Lininger. The measure also prevents state contractors from health care discrimination based on gender identity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36780637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36780637", "title": "Benjamin Franklin Award for Public Diplomacy", "text": "Benjamin Franklin Award for Public Diplomacy\n\nBenjamin Franklin Award for Public Diplomacy is an American award by the United States Department of State recognizes individuals, foundations, associations, and corporations that actively contribute to advancing America's ideals around the globe through public diplomacy. The award is named in honor of Benjamin Franklin because, as the nation's first envoy, he was \"known for his creative ways of using culture, business and science to attract the attention of foreign audiences\"\n\nThe establishment of the award was announced by US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in January 2007, as the most prestigious honor that the Department of State can bestow on U.S. citizens and non-governmental organizations, giving special emphasis to activities that:\n\nThe awards are presented in four categories: \n\n2016\n\n"}
{"id": "595183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=595183", "title": "Calcium sulfate", "text": "Calcium sulfate\n\nCalcium sulfate (or calcium sulphate) is the inorganic compound with the formula CaSO and related hydrates. In the form of γ-anhydrite (the anhydrous form), it is used as a desiccant. One particular hydrate is better known as plaster of Paris, and another occurs naturally as the mineral gypsum. It has many uses in industry. All forms are white solids that are poorly soluble in water. Calcium sulfate causes permanent hardness in water.\n\nThe compound exists in three levels of hydration corresponding to different crystallographic structures and to different minerals in the nature:\n\nThe main use of calcium sulfate is to produce plaster of Paris and stucco. These applications exploit the fact that calcium sulfate which has been powdered and calcined forms a moldable paste upon hydration and hardens as crystalline calcium sulfate dihydrate. It is also convenient that calcium sulfate is poorly soluble in water and does not readily dissolve in contact with water after its solidification.\n\nWith judicious heating, gypsum converts to the partially dehydrated mineral called calcium sulfate hemihydrate, calcined gypsum, and plaster of Paris.This material has the formula CaSO·(\"n\"HO), where 0.5 ≤ \"n\" ≤ 0.8. Temperatures between 100 °C and 150 °C (302 °F) are required to drive off the water within its structure. The details of the temperature and time depend on ambient humidity. Temperatures as high as 170 °C are used in industrial calcination, but at these temperatures γ-anhydrite begins to form. The heat energy delivered to the gypsum at this time (the heat of hydration) tends to go into driving off water (as water vapor) rather than increasing the temperature of the mineral, which rises slowly until the water is gone, then increases more rapidly. The equation for the partial dehydration is:\n\nThe endothermic property of this reaction is relevant to the performance of drywall, conferring fire resistance to residential and other structures. In a fire, the structure behind a sheet of drywall will remain relatively cool as water is lost from the gypsum, thus preventing (or substantially retarding) damage to the framing (through combustion of wood members or loss of strength of steel at high temperatures) and consequent structural collapse. But at higher temperatures, calcium sulfate will release oxygen and act as an oxidizing agent. This property is used in aluminothermy. In contrast to most minerals, which when rehydrated simply form liquid or semi-liquid pastes, or remain powdery, calcined gypsum has an unusual property: when mixed with water at normal (ambient) temperatures, it quickly reverts chemically to the preferred dihydrate form, while physically \"setting\" to form a rigid and relatively strong gypsum crystal lattice:\n\nThis reaction is exothermic and is responsible for the ease with which gypsum can be cast into various shapes including sheets (for drywall), sticks (for blackboard chalk), and molds (to immobilize broken bones, or for metal casting). Mixed with polymers, it has been used as a bone repair cement. Small amounts of calcined gypsum are added to earth to create strong structures directly from cast earth, an alternative to adobe (which loses its strength when wet). The conditions of dehydration can be changed to adjust the porosity of the hemihydrate, resulting in the so-called alpha and beta hemihydrates (which are more or less chemically identical).\n\nOn heating to 180 °C, the nearly water-free form, called γ-anhydrite (CaSO·\"n\"HO where \"n\" = 0 to 0.05) is produced. γ-Anhydrite reacts slowly with water to return to the dihydrate state, a property exploited in some commercial desiccants. On heating above 250 °C, the completely anhydrous form called β-anhydrite or \"natural\" anhydrite is formed. Natural anhydrite does not react with water, even over geological timescales, unless very finely ground.\n\nThe variable composition of the hemihydrate and γ-anhydrite, and their easy inter-conversion, is due to their nearly identical crystal structures containing \"channels\" that can accommodate variable amounts of water, or other small molecules such as methanol.\n\nThe calcium sulfate hydrates are used as a coagulant in products such as tofu.\n\nUp to the 1970s, commercial quantities of sulfuric acid were produced in Whitehaven (Cumbria, UK) from anhydrous calcium sulfate. Upon being mixed with shale or marl, and roasted, the sulfate liberates sulfur trioxide gas, a precursor in sulfuric acid production, the reaction also produces calcium silicate, a mineral phase essential in cement clinker production.\n\nWhen sold at the anhydrous state as a desiccant with a color-indicating agent under the name Drierite, it appears blue (anhydrous) or pink (hydrated) due to impregnation with cobalt(II) chloride, which functions as a moisture indicator.\n\nThe main sources of calcium sulfate are naturally occurring gypsum and anhydrite, which occur at many locations worldwide as evaporites. These may be extracted by open-cast quarrying or by deep mining. World production of natural gypsum is around 127 million tonnes per annum.\n\nIn addition to natural sources, calcium sulfate is produced as a by-product in a number of processes:\n\nThese precipitation processes tend to concentrate radioactive elements in the calcium sulfate product. This issue is particular with the phosphate by-product, since phosphate ores naturally contain uranium and its decay products such as radium-226, lead-210 and polonium-210.\n\nCalcium sulfate is also a common component of fouling deposits in industrial heat exchangers, because its solubility decreases with increasing temperature (see the specific section on the retrograde solubility).\n\n2011 findings by the \"Opportunity\" rover on Mars show a form of calcium sulfate in a vein on the surface. Images suggest the mineral is gypsum.\n\nThe dissolution of the different crystalline phases of calcium sulfate in water is exothermic and release heat (decrease in Enthalpy: ΔH < 0). As an immediate consequence, to proceed, the dissolution reaction needs to evacuate this heat that can be considered as a product of reaction. If the system is cooled, the dissolution equilibrium will evolve towards the right according to the Le Chatelier principle and calcium sulfate will dissolve more easily. The solubility of calcium sulfate increases thus when the temperature decreases. If the temperature of the system is raised, the reaction heat cannot dissipate and the equilibrium will regress towards the left according to Le Chatelier principle. The solubility of calcium sulfate decreases thus when temperature increases. This contra-intuitive solubility behaviour is called retrograde solubility. It is less common than for most of the salts whose dissolution reaction is endothermic (i.e., the reaction consumes heat: increase in Enthalpy: ΔH > 0) and whose solubility increases with temperature. Another calcium compound, calcium hydroxide (Ca(OH), portlandite) also exhibits a retrograde solubility for the same thermodynamic reason: because its dissolution reaction is also exothermic and releases heat. So, to dissolve higher amounts of calcium sulfate or calcium hydroxide in water, it is necessary to cool down the solution close to its freezing point instead of increasing its temperature.\n\nThe retrograde solubility of calcium sulfate is also responsible for its precipitation in the hottest zone of heating systems and for its contribution to the formation of scale in boilers along with the precipitation of calcium carbonate whose solubility also decreases when CO degasses from hot water or can escape out of the system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40370401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40370401", "title": "Central Statistics Office (Botswana)", "text": "Central Statistics Office (Botswana)\n\nThe Central Statistics Office (CSO) is the statistical agency responsible for the gathering of \"data collecting, processing and disseminating\" and for \"coordinating, monitoring and supervising the National Statistical System\" in Botswana.\nStatistics Botswana embarked on the production of this special publication on \"selected Statistical indicators: 1966-2016\" as part and contribution to Botswana's 50th anniversary of independence celebrations.\n\nThe office has its main offices in Gaborone. One of the office's activities is a nationwide census every 10 years, the last one being conducted in 2011.\n\nTable 1: Annual Inflation Rate\n(Percentage) and consumer Price Index 1970 to 2015\n"}
{"id": "959133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=959133", "title": "Chancellor of Florence", "text": "Chancellor of Florence\n\nThe Chancellor of Florence held the most important position in the bureaucracy of the Florentine Republic. Though the chancellor was not officially a member of the Republic's elected political government, unlike the gonfaloniere or the nine members of the signoria, the role was roughly equivalent to the head of the civil service in some countries today, and its hilder could still wield considerable political influence. Holders included some of the most famous scholars, political thinkers and humanists of the Renaissance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "78359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78359", "title": "Client state", "text": "Client state\n\nA client state is a state that is economically, politically, or militarily subordinate to another more powerful state (termed controlling state in this article) in international affairs. Types of client states include: satellite state, associated state, puppet state, neo-colony, protectorate, vassal state, and tributary state.\n\nAncient states such as Persia and Greek city-states would create client states by making the leaders of that state subservient. Classical Athens, for example, forced weaker states into the Delian League and in some cases imposed democratic government on them. Later, Philip II of Macedon similarly imposed the League of Corinth. One of the most prolific users of client states was Republican Rome which, instead of conquering and then absorbing into an empire, chose to make client states out of those it defeated (e.g. Demetrius of Pharos), a policy which was continued up until the 1st century BCE when it became the Roman Empire. Sometimes the client was not a former enemy but a pretender whom Rome helped, Herod the Great being a well-known example. The use of client states continued through the Middle Ages as the feudal system began to take hold.\n\nIn the 13th century, Goryeo dynasty of Korea was overrun by the Mongols who founded the powerful Mongol Empire. After the peace treaty in 1260 and the Sambyeolcho Rebellion in 1270, Goryeo became a semi-autonomous client state of the Yuan dynasty for about 80 years.\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian Empire tried to make Serbia a client state in order to form a Christian opposition to the Ottoman Empire. That changed after a revolution in Serbia in 1900. Serbia now came under Russian protection, which was forming a pan-Orthodox opposition to the Latin Christianity represented by the Austria-Hungarian empire. In 1914, Russia repeatedly warned the Austro-Hungarian Empire against attacking Serbia. When it did attack, Russia mobilized its army. Russia also wanted Bulgaria and Montenegro as client states.\n\nGreat Britain and Austria both considered Serbia as a client state controlled by Russia. Most historians call Serbia a client state but historian Christopher Clark disagrees. He says the Russians made a mistake in thinking Serbia was a client state. In an unpublished commentary Clark argues: \"It was a risk enhancing initiative [of Russian Foreign Minister Serge Sazanov] to see Serbia as a kind of client...Serbia to my knowledge, has never been a client of anyone. This is a mistake, when Great Powers think they can secure the services of \"client states\". That \"clients\" are never in fact \"clients\". But this is a mistake that is presumably going to be keep being made by our political leaderships, though one hopes one day it will stop.\"\n\nDuring the French Revolution and Napoleonic eras, France conquered most of western Europe and established several client states.\nAt first, during the French revolutionary wars these states were erected as republics (the so-called \"Républiques soeurs\", or \"sister republics\"). They were established in Italy (Cisalpine Republic in Northern Italy, Parthenopean Republic in Southern Italy), Switzerland, Belgium, and the Netherlands as a republic and a monarchy.\n\nDuring the First French Empire, while Napoleon and the French army conquered Europe, such states changed, and several new states were formed. The Italian republics were transformed into the Kingdom of Italy under Napoleon's direct rule in the north and the Kingdom of Naples in the south, under Joseph Bonaparte's rule and later under Marshal of the Empire Joachim Murat's rule.\n\nThe west bank of the river Rhine was annexed and was a part of the French Empire. Numerous German states, comprising the Confederation of the Rhine, were client states of the French Empire, including the Kingdom of Westphalia, which was controlled by Jerome Bonaparte.\n\nSpain, too, was a client kingdom, following the French invasion of the Iberian Peninsula; as was Poland, then the Duchy of Warsaw.\n\nIn the 20th century, France started to apply the concept of Françafrique, its name for its former African colonies, sometimes extended to the former Belgian colonies. At present the term is used on some occasions to criticise the allegedly neocolonial relationship France has with its former colonies in Africa.\n\nThe countries involved provide oil and minerals important to the French economy. In addition, French companies have commercial interests in several countries of the continent. As if that were not enough, Francophone countries in Africa help to sustain the image of France as a world power, by giving votes of support for French initiatives at the UN.\n\nIn the British Empire the Indian Princely States were technically independent and were technically given their separate independence in 1947 (although the Nizam of Hyderabad indeed opted for independence but could not retain his independence from India). Egyptian Independence in 1922 technically ended a British protectorate in Egypt. Sudan continued to be governed as Anglo-Egyptian Sudan until Sudanese independence in 1956; Britain also had an interest in Egypt until the Suez Crisis was over. Iraq was made a kingdom in 1932. In each case the economic and military reality did not amount to full independence, but a status where the local rulers were British clients. Similarly in Africa (e.g. Northern Nigeria under Lord Lugard), and Malaya with the Federated Malay States and Unfederated Malay States; the policy of \"indirect rule\".\n\nAfter France was defeated in the Battle of France, Vichy France was established as a client state of Nazi Germany, which remained as such until 1942 when it was reduced to a puppet government until its liberation in 1944. Germany also established, in its newly conquered Eastern territories, client states including the Slovak Republic, the Croatian State and the Serbian State.\n\nAfter 1945 the term \"client state\" often characterised countries ruled by dictatorships backed openly by either the United States or by the Soviet Union. During the Cold War of 1945-1992, many Latin American countries such as Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua (until 1979), Cuba (until 1959), and Chile (under the regime of General Augusto Pinochet between 1973 and 1990) were seen as U.S. client states, as the U.S. government had significant influence over the policies of those dictatorships. The term also applied to other authoritarian regimes with close ties to the United States during the Cold War, more appropriately referred to as U.S. proxy states, such as South Vietnam, Indonesia (1966-1998) under the Suharto Regime, Iran until 1979, Cambodia under the regime of Lon Nol from 1970 to 1975, the Philippines under Ferdinand Marcos from 1965 to 1986, and Saudi Arabia. U.S. - Iran relations under the Shah (reigned 1941 to 1979) have been cited as a modern political-science case-study.\n\nA school of thought saw an earlier incarnation of Canada as a client state of the U.S.\n\nThe term might also arguably be used for those states extremely economically dependent on a more powerful nation. The three Pacific Ocean countries associated with the United States under the Compact of Free Association (the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands and Palau) may fall somewhat in this category.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the Japanese Empire reduced Korea's status to that of a client state. In the early 20th century, this was converted to direct rule. Manchukuo, in contrast, remained a puppet state throughout World War II.\n\nSoviet proxy or \"client\" states included much of the Warsaw Pact nations whose policies were heavily influenced by Soviet military power and economic aid. Other third world nations with Marxist-Leninist governments were routinely criticized as being Soviet proxies as well, among them Cuba following the Cuban Revolution, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the People's Republic of Angola, the People's Republic of Mozambique, the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan, and the Democratic Republic of Vietnam (North Vietnam). Within the Soviet Union itself, the Ukrainian SSR and the Byelorussian SSR, had seats at the United Nations, but were actually proper Soviet territory.\n\nSome sources regard the tiny Pacific Island state of Nauru as a client state of Australia, as it is heavily dependent on economic support from Australia, uses Australia's currency and processes and houses unauthorised asylum seeker arrivals to Australia under the Pacific Solution. In \"The Guardian\", Ben Doherty wrote that \"Nauru is a client state in every sense, kept functioning, just, by its wealthy neighbour. But its dependence on Australian largesse makes its government entirely beholden to its benefactor’s interests, even at the expense of its own people\" and described Nauru as a \"tiny, impoverished client state in the middle of the Pacific\". Refugee advocate David Manne labelled a plan by Nauru to sign the 1951 Refugee Convention as a \"cynical marketing tool\" by a \"client state of Australia\" Other sources have suggested Papua New Guinea, also involved in the Pacific Solution is, to a lesser extent, a client state of Australia while further sources have alleged that Australia's intervention in East Timor was an \"imperialistic\" mission to acquire a client state.\n\nNorth Korea has sometimes been seen as a client state of the People's Republic of China since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.\n\nWalter C. Ladwig III classifies Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan as \"contemporary client states\" of the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "41989250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41989250", "title": "Community Accountability", "text": "Community Accountability\n\nCommunity Accountability is\na community-based strategy, rather than a police/prison-based strategy, to address violence including domestic violence, sexual violence, and child abuse.\nCommunity Accountability is a process in which a community – a group of friends, a family, a church, a workplace, an apartment complex, a neighborhood, etc. – work together to do the following things:\n\n\nTransformative justice\n\n"}
{"id": "17339917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17339917", "title": "Cost-effective minimum water network", "text": "Cost-effective minimum water network\n\nCost-effective minimum water network is a holistic framework for water conservation which considers all conceivable methods to save water based on the water management hierarchy. \n\nThis framework, which is applicable for industrial as well as urban systems was first developed by Wan Alwi and Manan. The framework is applicable for grassroots design and retrofit of water systems and ensures that a desired payback period for design of a water recovery system is satisfied using the systematic hierarchical approach for resilient process screening (SHARPS) technique. \n\n"}
{"id": "40472011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40472011", "title": "Disabled People Against Cuts", "text": "Disabled People Against Cuts\n\nDisabled People Against Cuts (DPAC) is an organisation based in the United Kingdom for disabled people and allies to campaign against the impact of government spending cuts on the lives of disabled people. Formed on 3 October 2010 DPAC promotes full human rights and equality for all disabled people, and operates from the Social Model of Disability.\n\nThe 'Disabled People Protest' demonstration took place outside the Conservative Party annual conference on 3 October 2010 in the pouring rain in Birmingham, England. This was the first mass protest against the impact of austerity cuts to disabled people. It was also entirely led by disabled people, speaking out on their own behalf for themselves. Using this march as a catalyst, leading activists founded the organisation.\n\nDPAC is a non-hierarchical organisation which grew organically from a small group of people who came together to plan an anti-cuts march in Birmingham. The current steering group was elected at the 2011 conference.\n\nThere are 26 local DPAC groups, each one of which works within the DPAC constitution but are generally autonomous and their members make decisions for those groups.\n\nDPAC currently has a formal membership of 1,500, with 2,500 members of the Facebook page and 4,500 followers on Twitter. Online activism has had a key role to play in the development of the group. While other groups were organising entirely on line, or alternatively making little use of new social media, DPAC developed an approach that enabled both approaches side by side which enabled greater numbers to take part.\n\nDPAC is closely affiliated with its sister organisation Black Triangle in Scotland.\n\nDPAC operate from the Social model of disability which sees disability as being created by the structures of society not the medical differences in a persons body. A very simple example of this is where a wheelchair user won't say that they can not get up the steps into the public building because they have a specific medical condition that prevents them from walking, rather, they are disabled by the lack of access ramps. Economic, political and cultural forces exclude those of us with impairments and long term health conditions from full participation in society, limiting our educational, social, political, economic, health and cultural potential, well-being and participation. DPAC supports full citizenship for all Disabled People and opposes all cutbacks and austerity measures which are currently hitting Disabled People 9 times harder than non-disabled people.\n\nDPAC oppose all austerity measures which are currently heavily impacting disabled people in the UK. These include the closure of the Independent Living Fund, Personal Independence Payment (replacing Disability Living Allowance), Employment and Support Allowance, the Children and Families Bill 2013 and the 'Bedroom tax'.\n\nEllen Clifford, of DPAC, explained the tactics used by the anti-cuts group in the Guardian, saying \"No one who cares about social justice can work with a government that is intent on dismantling the welfare state, so disabled activists are having to find other means to try to stop what is happening. Legal challenges to reforms are one part of that... But legal challenges aren't an answer in themselves, and, as a form of campaigning, need to be run alongside other forms of awareness-raising, lobbying, protests and direct action. We need the 99% to stand up and say \"We will not let this happen\"\"\".\"\n\nDPAC have carried out a number of civil disobedience actions. The most notable of these actions follow. A blockade of Regents street in London, January 2012, with UK Uncut.\nBlockade of Trafalgar Square in April 2012\nA street blockade as part of a national Trade Union march in October 2012\nApril 2013 The 'Eviction' of Iain Duncan Smith\nAugust 2013 DPAC members took part in the 'Reclaim the Power' anti-fracking protest camp at Balcombe, West Sussex to engage with training in non-violent Direct action, and emphasise the needs of disabled people for clean, affordable and sustainable energy. On 24th June 2015, activists angered by the ending of The Independent Living Fund for disabled people were prevented from accessing The House of Commons Chamber during PMQs. Members of Manchester DPAC chained their wheelchairs together to block the VIP entrance to the Conservative Party Conference in October 2015. In September 2016, DPAC protesters closed down Westminster Bridge for several hours to bring attention to deaths arising from government welfare 'reforms'. In July 2017, the Lobby of Parliament was occupied and the main entrance to the Commons Chamber blocked, accompanied by chants of \"No Justice...No Peace\".\n\nIn 2012, 2013, 2016, and 2017 have held a 'Week of Action' to highlight the impact of austerity and the cuts on disabled peoples lives.\nThe Atos Games\nFrom Monday 27 August 2012 DPAC hosted a week of 'The Atos Games' which focused on highlighting the hypocrisy of the sponsorship of the Paralympic games by Atos – the same company that carries out the highly controversial Work Capability Assessments. Events included a spoof 'paralymic award ceremony', and the delivery of a coffin to Atos offices. On the 30th August, campaigners staging a \"die in\" in Cardiff brought traffic to a standstill. On the closing day of the event, a demonstration outside Atos head offices moved to the offices of the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) where protestors chained themselves to the main entrance. This event was marred with significant police violence.\n\nReclaiming our Futures was the week of action held from 29 August to 4 September 2013 to protest against the targeting of disabled people by austerity measures, and to celebrate the value, pride and self-determination of disabled people. The event features an on-line day of action launch, coinciding with the Torch Relay protest organised by Transport for All to highlight lack of accessibility on the new crossrail trainline currently being constructed. Friday 30 August saw local protests across the UK, while Saturday 1 September features a day of art and music with a 'Disability, Art and Protest' exhibition, banner making workshop, poetry reading and gig. 'The Social Model in the 21st century' conference saw key note speeches by Debbie Jolly of DPAC, Professor Colin Barnes and Ann Rae of the Union of the Physically Impaired Against Segregation (UPAIS). The week included a direct action outside the BBC to highlight biased representation of disabled people and promotion of 'scrounger rhetoric' and culminated on a march on parliament during which the UK Disabled Peoples Manifesto was launched.\n\nThe 2016 Week Of Action was held to coincide with the Paralympic Games in London in September. Events included a pop-up guerilla art installation at Tate Modern, London, and the closing of Westminster Bridge by activists.\n\nThe 2017 Week of Action, in August, included support for RMT action to keep guards on trains, a protest outside ATOS HQ, and the blocking of the main entrance to The House of Commons Chamber.\n"}
{"id": "22658304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22658304", "title": "Europe of Freedom and Democracy", "text": "Europe of Freedom and Democracy\n\nEurope of Freedom and Democracy (EFD) was a right-wing Eurosceptic political group in the European Parliament. The group was formed following the 2009 European parliamentary election, mostly composed of elements of the Independence/Democracy (IND/DEM) and Union for a Europe of Nations (UEN) groups that had existed during the 6th European Parliament. The group had a loose relationship with Movement for a Europe of Liberties and Democracy (MELD), a European political party founded in 2011.\n\nThe EFD was a coalition of ten political parties – the largest being the UK Independence Party (UKIP) with eleven seats and the Italian Lega Nord, with nine seats – along with one independent. The EFD is hostile to further European integration, and more nationalistic and anti-immigration than its main predecessor IND/DEM. The EFD was considered to belong on the right-wing to far-right of the political spectrum.\n\nOn 24 June 2014 EFD group became Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy (EFDD) for the 8th European Parliament, with the continuing membership of just two of the eleven political parties that formed EFD.\n\nFollowing the 2009 European parliament elections, the Independence/Democracy (IND/DEM) and Union for a Europe of Nations (UEN), two political groups of the European Parliament, were in trouble. The UK Independence Party (UKIP) component of IND/DEM had done well, but the other parties of this group fared very poorly. UEN had also lost MEPs and both groups had fallen under the threshold required for a group to exist. The remnants of both groups needed to find a new group before the constitutive session of the 7th European Parliament on 14 July 2009.\n\nSpeculation regarding the new group surfaced on 30 June 2009. The name of the group was originally speculated as \"A Europe of Free Peoples\", or \"A Europe of Peoples for Liberty\", or a phrase involving the word \"Independence\" or \"Freedom\" or \"Democracy\" or \"People\". In the absence of an official name, the nascent group was given the placeholder name of \"Liberty\". On 1 July 2009 a press conference was held launching the group. That press conference named the group \"Europe of Freedom and Democracy\".\n\nAndreas Mölzer, the leader of the Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ) European Parliament list, announced in July 2009 that FPÖ and EFD were in negotiations over FPÖ joining the group; each side had reservations about the other, with UKIP, the Reformed Political Party (SGP) of the Netherlands, and the Slovak National Party (SNS) each uneasy about the inclusion of the FPÖ. In June 2011, the FPÖ tried again to have its two MEPs join the faction, but was again denied, being opposed by five or six of the nine parties in the EFD.\n\nIn March 2010 it was announced that MEP Nikki Sinclaire had had the UKIP whip withdrawn. Sinclaire had refused to join the EFD on the grounds that it was a grouping with \"extreme views\" and consequently had not sat with her UKIP colleagues in the European parliament. In June 2010 MEP Mike Nattrass also left the EFD, albeit on other grounds than Sinclaire, stating that \"I don't share the same principles of some of the Group, on balance, the majority of the Group want to stay in the EU and I've always believed that we should leave.\" Nattrass later rejoined the group in December 2012. In March 2011 MEP Trevor Colman left the EFD, allegedly due to an \"unresolved dispute over financial and staffing issues.\" However Colman continued to represent UKIP as a Non-Attached MEP. On 24 May 2011, British MEP David Campbell Bannerman defected to the Conservative Party, and the European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR) group.\n\nIn March 2011, Danish MEP Anna Rosbach left the EFD, and in turn joined the ECR group as an independent.\n\nThe EFD was joined by Belgian MEP Frank Vanhecke in November 2011, after Vanhecke left Flemish Interest (VB). It was joined by Magdi Allam in December 2011, when Allam defected from the Union of Christian and Centre Democrats (UDC) in the EPP group. The four MEPs from United Poland defected from the ECR group on 26 December 2011, taking the group's numbers to 33. In March 2012 Roger Helmer who was elected as a British Conservative Party MEP and previously sat with the ECR group, defected to UKIP and the EFD, raising the group's numbers to 34.\n\nIn late 2012, Slavcho Binev MEP of People for Real, Open and United Democracy (PROUD) joined the group.\n\nIn February 2013 Marta Andreasen announced she was leaving UKIP and defected to the Conservative Party.\n\nIn late September 2013, National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria (NSFB) joined the group.\n\nEurope of Freedom and Democracy had 34 elected members between 2009–2014, they are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8796362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8796362", "title": "FLAMA", "text": "FLAMA\n\nThe Frente de Libertação do Arquipélago da Madeira (), or FLAMA (which could be read as an archaic Portuguese word for \"flame\", \"flama\"), was a right-wing terrorist paramilitary organisation from Madeira, whose main goal was to achieve Madeira's independence from mainland Portugal.\n\nFLAMA carried out around 200 bomb attacks between 1974-1976, during the revolutionary period that followed the Portuguese Carnation Revolution (April 25, 1974). The Carnation Revolution effectively changed the Portuguese regime from an authoritarian dictatorship (the Estado Novo) to a democracy (the Third Republic), but only after two years of a transitional period known as PREC (\"Processo Revolucionário Em Curso\", Portuguese for \"Ongoing Revolutionary Process\"), characterized by social turmoil and power dispute between left and right wing political forces. During this period the new government withdrew from Angola and Mozambique, the last Portuguese colonies on mainland Africa. Some in Madeira thought that their area should be the next to separate.\n\nFLAMA's demands were more a right-wing political reaction by some of the regional elites to the left-wing nature of the Revolution and its main actors, than a truly ethnic or nationalist separatist goal. The group is thought to have been made up of young, anti-communist students.\n\nA similar group in the Azores Archipelago, called Frente de Libertação dos Açores, established contact in October 1975. After the normalization of the Portuguese political system, early in 1976, and the constitutional grant of autonomy to the Portuguese North Atlantic archipelagos of Madeira and Azores, the organization slowed down. However, the end of the organization is thought to have taken place in 1978, which was confirmed by one of its most prominent members Daniel Drumont, \"The movement ended in 1978, (...) when Portugal was walking towards a communist dictatorship, but now it’s extinct\".\nThe FLAMA flag is composed of a blue-yellow-blue vertical triband, and in the yellow sections there are five small shields. The blue represents the environment that characterizes the island and represents nobility and serenity. The yellow mirrors the climate of the Archipelago, a symbol of richness, strength, faith and purity. The five shields, which are also present in the Portuguese flag stand for the five wounds of Christ (Portuguese: ) when crucified, and are typically associated with the legend in which Count Afonso Henriques (future Afonso I) \"killed the five Moorish kings of the Seville, Badajoz, Elvas, Évora and Beja taifas. Hence, in gratitude to Jesus, he incorporated five shields arranged in a cross—representing his divine-led victory over the five enemy kings—with each one carrying Christ's five wounds in the form of silver bezants. The sum of all bezants (doubling the ones in the central shield) would give thirty, symbolizing Judas Iscarot's thirty pieces of silver\".\n\nThe flag was first raised on the 20th of July 1975, in FLAMA's first high-profile act.\n\nOn the 20th of July 1975, FLAMA's first high-profile action took place when several walls in Funchal, Madeira's main city, were sprayed with phrases and expressions such as \"Independence for Madeira\" and \"Out With The Portuguese\", which FLAMA's signature at the bottom. One of the common expressions in the graffiti that became FLAMA's signature action, was the expression \"Cubans\" to describe the mainland Portuguese. This came from the fact that Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho, a well-known Portuguese military officer and main strategist of the 1974 Carnation Revolution, was an admirer of Fidel Castro's communist policies in Cuba.\n\nIn the beginning of August 1975, FLAMA releases several statements in which it promises violent acts in case no action no action is taken to start the process of independence. The expression \"Friday, it's João's birthday\" (form the Portuguese: Sexta-feira, o João faz anos\"), which was supposed to be a code for violent acts that were going to be taken. As a response, Madeira's military forces launched operation \"Happy Birthday\" (from the Portuguese: \"parabéns\"), in which 200 military officers and police officers are given orders to find the group. At 2:45am of the 9th of August, a Saturday, a bomb attack is perpetrated and its target is the national news station, Emissora Nacional. The attackers made use of 200 grams of dynamite, but the attack did not cause much damage and was intended to serve as a warning.\n\nOn the 23rd of August, FLAMA strikes once again Emissora Nacional, and at 3:16am, a bomb exploded at its headquarters in Funchal. The organization states that it views the news station as \"leftist propaganda\". Following that attack, whose main aim was to neutralize the electronic equipment of the station and therefore stop the news casting, a series of other attacks followed. Less than 24 hours later, another explosion took place at a bakery. The next bomb attack took place on the 29th of August, when a car from a well known politically left-oriented banker was the target of the explosion. On that same day, FLAMA releases pamphlets stating its intentions to start a provisional government of Madeira and asking for the recognition of FLAMA \"as the true representative of the will of Madeira's people\". However, the director of FLAMA at the time, José Carvalho, has stated that the move was \"pure propaganda\". Another attack followed, in the morning of the 31st of August, when another banker's car, João Abel Azevedo, was the target of the bomb attack. This attack led to the detention of a number of suspects by the local police forces, and when the news of the detentions was released in the 2nd of September, FLAMA retaliated and a firecracker was thrown at São Lourenço Palace.\n\nOne of FLAMA's most controversial moments however, came on the night of the 28th of August, when 6 young men with ages raging from 15 to 17, sprayed words in support of FLAMA and Madeira's independence on the walls of a tourist complex named , located in the municipality of Machico. They were detained by the police forces, due to the security cameras at the site, and once the news spread regarding their detention there was popular outrage against their actions. However, as minors, they were released but the event, which captured significant media attention, became known as the \"Popular Trial of Machico\".\n\nA manifestation against FLAMA and its actions was called on the 18th of September, and it turned into a protest against independence with banners reading \"Death to FLAMA\". The following morning, two firecrackers are fired an the attacks were perpetrated by FLAMA, the first aimed at a car, the second bomb aimed at the house of a known syndicalist on the island. Several attacks took place in the following days, and after an occupation of another news broadcaster by a group of expatriates who had returned to Portugal following the war for independence of Angola and Mozambique and who demanded higher standards of living, three more attacks took place on the 10th, 12th, 15th and 21st of October.\n\nAfter establishing contact with FLA, FLAMA's boldest attack took place on November 13th. At the Santa Catarina airport, there were three planes, on of them a military one called Noratlas of the Portuguese Air Force. At the time, there were rumors that the military plane was supposed to carry a sum of money out of Madeira and to the mainland, and at 4:10, a bomb explodes under the plane's cockpit, which causes significant damage to the plane and a fire at the airport. No suspects were detained due to the lack of evidence.\n\nAfter a period of conversation and turmoil in the mainland, where elections had just taken place and Azores has plans of institutional autonomy, FLAMA is behind another attack which took place on the 14th of January 1976. This was followed by, on the 19th of February, the visit of José Baptista Pinheiro de Azevedo, Prime-Minister at the time, to start the talks with the local governmental authorities regarding the region's autonomy. On the 20th of February, following an explosion on a road in which the car of the Prime-Minister was passing, the documents granting a provisional government to the region of Madeira were signed.\n\nAlthough FLAMA's activities were more sparse, the organization was still active. In the following months, merchandise featuring FLAMA's flag is distributed along with a new currency named \"zarco\", which was supposed to act as Madeira's new currency. On the 24th of March, FLAMA decides to take on a political and organized approach, and so the Political Association of the Madeira Archipelago was founded.\n\nOn the 2nd of April, the Portuguese Constitution is approved in the Parliament, and in it, there are 10 articles which grant political and administrative autonomy to the Azores and Madeira.\n\nWhat was FLAMA's most complex operation to the time took place on the month of June. Involving 25 people and a bomb weighting 12 kilograms of gelignite, the bomb was placed under a bridge in Água-de-Pena, whose target was the then Presidential candidate Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho. However, the bomb was deLfused when it was known that a bus of 20 children would be travelling with the commission travelling with the Presidential candidate at the time.\n\nFollowing several strikes at the beginning of 1977 due to the delays in the transfer of administrative powers to the regional governments and the visit of then President Ramalho Eanes, another bomb was placed on the 26th of August in the offices of the Portuguese National Airline, TAP. While other minor incidents followed that one, arson became the new FLAMA strategy. The targets were the cars of university professors, syndicalists, members of parliament and journalists. However, this new phase of FLAMA \"escaped the control\" of the directory members, with one member in particular setting fires which were no longer under FLAMA's ideological motivations. He was identified as Eduardo Mendonça. \n\nAt the end of 1977, the Portuguese Judiciary Police (from the Portuguese: \"Polícia Judiciária\") counts 14 bombings in Madeira, perpetrated by FLAMA.\n\nOn the 15th of February 1978, 3 suspects are detained and accused of terrorism and 219 objects used in bombing devices were found. As a reaction to the detentions, FLAMA reacts by leaving two firecrackers in the Place of Justice (from he Portuguese: \"Palácio da Justiça\") in Funchal. On the 5th of April, two police officers and two tourists were injured in a car explosion set by FLAMA.\n\nFLAMA's first deadly attack took place on the 23rd of August 1978, when a car bomb is set and the 19 year-old operational, João Alberto, who was installing it is killed. Another member, Alírio Paulo Fernandes, commits suicide while detained by the police. However, suicide was never confirmed as the cause of death which led to protests during his funeral, where independents accused the police of abuse of strength. Following this event, FLAMA dispersed and there are no more records of any bombings.\n\nWhile it is said in multiple sources that the organization vanished due to its diminishing importance after 1976 and the establishment of Madeira as an autonomous region, recent news indicates the opposite.\n\nAllegedly one of FLAMA's most important activists was the controversial Alberto João Jardim, the former President of the regional government of Madeira, co-founder of the Madeiran branch of the popular centre-right-wing Portuguese party PSD and former Vice-president of the European People's Party.However, he has denied any connection to FLAMA, stating that “in contrary to what my political adversaries have accused me of- it’s not that FLAMA was dishonourable, in the contrary actually-, I not only have never belonged to its organizations, as I also never established any contact with them. Everyone had its role in defending democracy. Mine was ensuring the survival of PSD and of \"Madeira’s Newspaper.”\" This accusation is supported by a photo in which Albert João Jardim is wearing a shirt that states \"Madeira, my Homeland\". \n\nIn 1997, the Forum for Madeira’s Autonomy, or FAMA (originally in Portuguese: \"Fórum para a Autonomia da Madeira\"), was created, which advocated for more autonomy. Although they rejected FLAMA's claims for independence, one of its members, Jaime Ramos, stated “Total autonomy” in reference to the archipelago. The organization was dissolved in October 2015.\n\nOn the 1 of July 2011, the Region's Autonomy Day, fifty FLAMA flags were raised in several locations across the islands, and a statement was released claiming once again the Archipelago's independence. The statement released to the press was the following: “Today, the 1 of July of 2011, the day of the autonomy that doesn’t deserve to be celebrated, Madeira’s people woke up to an archipelago “dressed up” with its flag, and, after 35 years, it is a good time to reflect on what FLAMA has always proposed and what was accepted with open arms by some and questioned by others\". This was followed by a member of Parliament, António Fontes, displaying a FLAMA flag in Parliament to prove that displaying such a flag was a crime, as that was the “flag of bombs”.\n\nIn 2014, the Scottish Referendum for independence, revived the conversation about the Archipelago's independence. In Funchal, FAMA's president, Gabriel Drumond, reaffirmed that the Madeira people have the right to be free from Portugal and that “no one could, democratically, stop them from holding a referendum”. Alberto João Jardim questioned “What has the Portuguese State given to Madeira so far, or what has it promised to Madeira?”.\n\n\nJoão Costa Miranda and Daniel Drumond are still vocal about FLAMA's recent controversies, trying to dissociated themselves from recent events, but after the end of the organisation in 1978, their names and roles were not known and so no legal prosecution was pursued. Afterwards, the members have recused themselves from the bombings, stating that \"there were people who made use of FLAMA's brand\".\n\nJosé Carvalho, an outspoken ex-director of FLAMA, recently passed away. \n"}
{"id": "2283506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283506", "title": "Group Areas Act", "text": "Group Areas Act\n\nGroup Areas Act was the title of three acts of the Parliament of South Africa enacted under the apartheid government of South Africa. The acts assigned racial groups to different residential and business sections in urban areas in a system of urban apartheid. An effect of the law was to exclude non-Whites from living in areas which were restricted to Whites (e.g., Sea Point, Lansdowne, Cape Town, Claremont). It caused many non-Whites to have to commute large distances from their homes in order to be able to work. The law led to non-Whites being forcibly removed for living in the \"wrong\" areas. The non-white majority were given much smaller areas (e.g., Tongaat, Grassy Park) to live in than the white minority who owned most of the country. Pass Laws required that non-Whites carry pass books, and later 'reference books' (similar to passports) to enter the 'white' parts of the country.\n\nThe first Group Areas Act, the \"Group Areas Act, 1950\" was promulgated on 7 July 1950, and it was implemented over a period of several years. It was amended by Parliament in 1952, 1955 (twice), 1956 and 1957. Later in 1957 it was repealed and re-enacted in consolidated form as the \"Group Areas Act, 1957\", which was amended in 1961, 1962, and 1965. In 1966 this version was in turn repealed and re-enacted as the \"Group Areas Act, 1966\", which was subsequently amended in 1969, 1972, 1974, 1975, 1977, 1978, 1979, 1982, and 1984. It was repealed (along with many other discriminatory laws) on 30 June 1991 by the Abolition of Racially Based Land Measures Act, 1991.\n\nAfter the 1948 general election, D.F. Malan's administration commenced its policy of apartheid that sought to segregate the races in South Africa. The government hoped to achieve this through 'separate development' of the races and this entailed passing laws that would ensure a distinction on social, economic, political and, in the case of the Group Areas Act, geographical lines. The Group Areas Act may be regarded as an extension of the Asiatic Land Tenure Act, 1946.\n\nThe Act empowered the Governor-General to declare certain geographical areas to be for the exclusive occupation of specific racial groups. In particular the statute identified three such racial groups: whites, coloureds and natives. This authority was exercised on the advice of the Minister of the Interior and the Group Areas Board.\n\nOnce an area had been designated for sole occupation by certain racial groups the proclamation would not become legally effective for at least one year. Once this time had expired it became a criminal offence to remain in occupation of property in that area with the punishment potentially being a fine and two years' imprisonment.\n\nThe Act also applied to businesses with racial designation being applied on the basis of the individuals who held a controlling interest in the company.\n\nThe Act became an effective tool in the separate development of races in South Africa. It also granted the Minister of the Interior a mandate to forcibly remove non-whites from valuable pieces of land so that they could become white settlements.\nOne of the most famous uses of the Group Areas Act was the destruction of Sophiatown, a suburb of Johannesburg. On 9 February 1955 2,000 policemen began removing residents to Meadowlands, Soweto and erected a new white-only area called \"Triomf\" (Triomf —Afrikaans for Triumph).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13456", "title": "Head of state", "text": "Head of state\n\nA head of state (or chief of state) is the public persona that officially represents the national unity and legitimacy of a sovereign state. Depending on the country's form of government and separation of powers, the head of state may be a ceremonial figurehead or concurrently the head of government. In the parliamentary system the head of state is the \"de jure\" leader of the nation, because the leader \"de facto\" is the prime minister. In contrast, the semi-presidential system has both heads of state and government as the leaders \"de facto\" of the nation (in practice they divide the leadership of the nation among themselves).\n\nIn countries with parliamentary systems, the head of state is typically a ceremonial figurehead that does not actually guide day-to-day government activities or is not empowered to exercise any kind of political authority. In countries where the head of state is also the head of government, the head of state serves as both a public figurehead and the actual highest-ranking political leader who oversees the executive branch (e.g., the President of Brazil).\n\nFormer French president Charles de Gaulle, while developing the current Constitution of France (1958), said the head of state should embody \"\" (\"the spirit of the nation\").\n\nSome academic writers discuss states and governments in terms of \"models\".\n\nAn independent nation state normally has a head of state, and determines the extent of its head's executive powers of government or formal representational functions.\nIn protocolary terms, the head of a sovereign, independent state is usually identified as the person who, according to that state's constitution, is the reigning monarch, in the case of a monarchy, or the president, in the case of a republic.\n\nAmong the different state constitutions (fundamental laws) that establish different political systems, four major types of heads of state can be distinguished:\n\n\nThe same role in a federal constituent and a dependent territory is fulfilled by the corresponding office equivalent to that of a head of state. For example, in each Canadian province the role is fulfilled by the Lieutenant Governor, whereas in most British Overseas Territories the powers and duties are performed by the Governor. The same applies to Australian states, Indian states, etc. Hong Kong's constitutional document, the Basic Law, for example, specifies the Chief Executive as the head of the special administrative region, in addition to his role as the head of government. These non-sovereign-state heads, nevertheless, have limited or no role in diplomatic affairs, depending on the status and the norms and practices of the territories concerned.\n\nIn parliamentary systems the head of state may be merely the nominal chief executive officer, heading the executive branch of the state, and possessing limited executive power. In reality, however, following a process of constitutional evolution, powers are usually only exercised by direction of a cabinet, presided over by a head of government who is answerable to the legislature. This accountability and legitimacy requires that someone be chosen who has a majority support in the legislature (or, at least, not a majority opposition – a subtle but important difference). It also gives the legislature the right to vote down the head of government and their cabinet, forcing it either to resign or seek a parliamentary dissolution. The executive branch is thus said to be responsible (or answerable) to the legislature, with the head of government and cabinet in turn accepting constitutional responsibility for offering constitutional advice to the head of state.\n\nIn parliamentary constitutional monarchies, the legitimacy of the unelected head of state typically derives from the tacit approval of the people via the elected representatives. Accordingly, at the time of the Glorious Revolution, the English parliament acted of its own authority to name a new king and queen (the joint monarchs Mary II and William III); likewise, Edward VIII's abdication required the approval of each of the six independent realms of which he was monarch. In monarchies with a written constitution, the position of monarch is a creature of the constitution and could quite properly be abolished through a democratic procedure of constitutional amendment, although there are often significant procedural hurdles imposed on such a procedure (as in the Constitution of Spain).\n\nIn republics with a parliamentary system (such as India, Germany, Austria, Italy and Israel) the head of state is usually titled \"president\" and the principal functions of such presidents are mainly ceremonial and symbolic, as opposed to the presidents in a presidential or semi-presidential system.\nIn reality, numerous variants exist to the position of a head of state within a parliamentary system. The older the constitution, the more constitutional leeway tends to exist for a head of state to exercise greater powers over government, as many older parliamentary system constitutions in fact give heads of state powers and functions akin to presidential or semi-presidential systems, in some cases without containing reference to modern democratic principles of accountability to parliament or even to modern governmental offices. Usually, the king had the power of declaring war without previous consent of the parliament.\n\nFor example, under the 1848 constitution of the Kingdom of Italy, the \"Statuto Albertino\"—the parliamentary approval to the government appointed by the king—was customary, but not required by law. So, Italy had a de facto parliamentarian system, but a de jure \"presidential\" system.\n\nExamples of heads of state in parliamentary systems using greater powers than usual, either because of ambiguous constitutions or unprecedented national emergencies, include the decision by King Leopold III of the Belgians to surrender on behalf of his state to the invading German army in 1940, against the will of his government. Judging that his responsibility to the nation by virtue of his coronation oath required him to act, he believed that his government's decision to fight rather than surrender was mistaken and would damage Belgium. (Leopold's decision proved highly controversial. After World War II, Belgium voted in a referendum to allow him back on the throne, but because of the ongoing controversy he ultimately abdicated.) The Belgian constitutional crisis in 1990, when the head of state refused to sign into law a bill permitting abortion, was resolved by the cabinet assuming the power to promulgate the law while he was treated as \"unable to reign\" for twenty-four hours.\n\nThese officials are excluded completely from the executive: they do not possess even theoretical executive powers or any role, even formal, within the government. Hence their states' governments are not referred to by the traditional parliamentary model head of state styles of \"His/Her Majesty's Government\" or \"His/Her Excellency's Government\". Within this general category, variants in terms of powers and functions may exist.\n\nThe was drawn up under the Allied occupation that followed World War II and was intended to replace the previous militaristic and quasi-absolute monarchy system with a form of liberal democracy parliamentary system. The constitution explicitly vests all executive power in the Cabinet, who is chaired by the prime minister (articles 65 and 66) and responsible to the Diet (articles 67 and 69). The emperor is defined in the constitution as \"the symbol of the State and of the unity of the people\" (article 1), and is generally recognized throughout the world as the Japanese head of state. Although the emperor formally appoints the prime minister to office, article 6 of the constitution requires him to appoint the candidate \"as designated by the Diet\", without any right to decline appointment. He is a ceremonial figurehead with no independent discretionary powers related to the governance of Japan.\n\nSince the passage in Sweden of the 1974 Instrument of Government, the Swedish monarch no longer has many of the standard parliamentary system head of state functions that had previously belonged to him or her, as was the case in the preceding 1809 Instrument of Government. Today, the Speaker of the Riksdag appoints (following a vote in the Riksdag) the prime minister and terminates his or her commission following a vote of no confidence or voluntary resignation. Cabinet members are appointed and dismissed at the sole discretion of the prime minister. Laws and ordinances are promulgated by two Cabinet members in unison signing \"On Behalf of the Government\" and the government—not the monarch—is the high contracting party with respect to international treaties. The remaining official functions of the sovereign, by constitutional mandate or by unwritten convention, are to open the annual session of the Riksdag, receive foreign ambassadors and sign the letters of credence for Swedish ambassadors, chair the foreign advisory committee, preside at the special Cabinet council when a new prime minister takes office, and to be kept informed by the prime minister on matters of state.\n\nIn contrast, the only contact the President of Ireland has with the Irish government is through a formal briefing session given by the Taoiseach (head of government) to the president. However, he or she has no access to documentation and all access to ministers goes through the Department of the Taoiseach. The president does, however, hold limited reserve powers, such as referring a bill to the Supreme Court to test its constitutionality, which are used under the president's discretion.\n\nThe most extreme non-executive republican Head of State is the President of Israel, which holds no reserve powers whatsoever. The least ceremonial powers held by the President are to appoint the Prime Minister, to approve the dissolution of the Knesset made by the Prime Minister, and to pardon criminals or to commute their sentence.\n\nSome parliamentary republics (like South Africa, Botswana and Suriname) have fused the roles of the head of state with the head of government (like in a presidential system), while having the sole executive officer, often called a president, being dependent on the Parliament's confidence to rule (like in a parliamentary system). While also being the leading symbol of the nation, the president in this system acts mostly as a prime minister, since the incumbent must be a member of the legislature at the time of the election, answer question sessions in Parliament, avoid motions of no confidence, etc.\n\nSemi-presidential systems combine features of presidential and parliamentary systems, notably (in the president-parliamentary subtype) a requirement that the government be answerable to both the president and the legislature. The constitution of the Fifth French Republic provides for a prime minister who is chosen by the president, but who nevertheless must be able to gain support in the National Assembly. Should a president be of one side of the political spectrum and the opposition be in control of the legislature, the president is usually obliged to select someone from the opposition to become prime minister, a process known as Cohabitation. President François Mitterrand, a Socialist, for example, was forced to cohabit with the neo-Gaullist (right wing) Jacques Chirac, who became his prime minister from 1986 to 1988. In the French system, in the event of cohabitation, the president is often allowed to set the policy agenda in security and foreign affairs and the prime minister runs the domestic and economic agenda.\n\nOther countries evolve into something akin to a semi-presidential system or indeed a full presidential system. Weimar Germany, for example, in its constitution provided for a popularly elected president with theoretically dominant executive powers that were intended to be exercised only in emergencies, and a cabinet appointed by him from the Reichstag, which was expected, in normal circumstances, to be answerable to the Reichstag. Initially, the President was merely a symbolic figure with the Reichstag dominant; however, persistent political instability, in which governments often lasted only a few months, led to a change in the power structure of the republic, with the president's emergency powers called increasingly into use to prop up governments challenged by critical or even hostile Reichstag votes. By 1932, power had shifted to such an extent that the German President, Paul von Hindenburg, was able to dismiss a chancellor and select his own person for the job, even though the outgoing chancellor possessed the confidence of the Reichstag while the new chancellor did not. Subsequently, President von Hindenburg used his power to appoint Adolf Hitler as Chancellor without consulting the Reichstag.\n\n\"Note: The head of state in a \"presidential\" system may not actually hold the title of \"president\" - the name of the system refers to any head of state who actually governs and is not directly dependent on the legislature to remain in office.\"\n\nSome constitutions or fundamental laws provide for a head of state who is not only in theory but in practice chief executive, operating separately from, and independent from, the legislature. This system is known as a \"presidential system\" and sometimes called the \"imperial model\", because the executive officials of the government are answerable solely and exclusively to a presiding, acting head of state, and is selected by and on occasion dismissed by the head of state without reference to the legislature. It is notable that some presidential systems, while not providing for collective executive accountability to the legislature, may require legislative approval for individuals prior to their assumption of cabinet office and empower the legislature to remove a president from office (for example, in the United States of America). In this case the debate centers on confirming them into office, not removing them from office, and does not involve the power to reject or approve proposed cabinet members \"en bloc\", so it is not accountability in the sense understood in a parliamentary system.\n\nPresidential systems are a notable feature of constitutions in the Americas, including those of Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, El Salvador, Mexico and Venezuela; this is generally attributed to the strong influence of the United States in the region, and as the United States Constitution served as an inspiration and model for the Latin American wars of independence of the early 19th century. Most presidents in such countries are selected by democratic means (popular direct or indirect election); however, like all other systems, the presidential model also encompasses people who become head of state by other means, notably through military dictatorship or \"coup d'état\", as often seen in Latin American, Middle Eastern and other presidential regimes. Some of the characteristics of a presidential system (i.e., a strong dominant political figure with an executive answerable to them, not the legislature) can also be found among absolute monarchies, parliamentary monarchies and single party (e.g., Communist) regimes, but in most cases of dictatorship, their stated constitutional models are applied in name only and not in political theory or practice.\n\nIn the 1870s in the United States, in the aftermath of the impeachment of President Andrew Johnson and his near-removal from office, it was speculated that the United States, too, would move from a presidential system to a semi-presidential or even parliamentary one, with the Speaker of the House of Representatives becoming the real center of government as a quasi-prime minister. This did not happen and the presidency, having been damaged by three late nineteenth and early twentieth century assassinations (Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley) and one impeachment (Johnson), reasserted its political dominance by the early twentieth century through such figures as Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson.\n\nIn certain states under Marxist constitutions of the constitutionally socialist state type inspired by the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) and its constitutive Soviet republics, real political power belonged to the sole legal party. In these states, there was no formal office of head of state, but rather the leader of the legislative branch was considered to be the closest common equivalent of a head of state as a natural person. In the Soviet Union this position carried such titles as \"Chairman of the Central Executive Committee of the USSR\"; \"Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet\"; and in the case of the Soviet Russia \"Chairman of the Central Executive Committee of the All-Russian Congress of Soviets\" (pre-1922), and \"Chairman of the Bureau of the Central Committee of the Russian SFSR\" (1956–1966). This position may or may not have been held by the de facto Soviet leader at the moment. For example, Nikita Khrushchev never headed the Supreme Soviet but was First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party (party leader) and Chairman of the Council of Ministers (head of government).\n\nThis may even lead to an institutional variability, as in North Korea, where, after the presidency of party leader Kim Il-Sung, the office was vacant for years. The late president was granted the posthumous title (akin to some ancient Far Eastern traditions to give posthumous names and titles to royalty) of \"Eternal President\". All substantive power, as party leader, itself not formally created for four years, was inherited by his son Kim Jong Il. The post of president was formally replaced on 5 September 1998, for ceremonial purposes, by the office of Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme People's Assembly, while the party leader's post as Chairman of the National Defense Commission was simultaneously declared \"the highest post of the state\", not unlike Deng Xiaoping earlier in the People's Republic of China.\n\nWhile clear categories do exist, it is sometimes difficult to choose which category some individual heads of state belong to. In reality, the category to which each head of state belongs is assessed not by theory but by practice.\n\nConstitutional change in Liechtenstein in 2003 gave its head of state, the Reigning Prince, constitutional powers that included a veto over legislation and power to dismiss the head of government and cabinet. It could be argued that the strengthening of the Prince's powers, vis-a-vis the Landtag (legislature), has moved Liechtenstein into the semi-presidential category. Similarly the original powers given to the Greek President under the 1974 Hellenic Republic constitution moved Greece closer to the French semi-presidential model.\n\nAnother complication exists with South Africa, in which the President is in fact elected by the National Assembly (legislature) and is thus similar, in principle, to a head of government in a parliamentary system but is also, in addition, recognized as the head of state. The offices of President of Nauru and President of Botswana are similar in this respect to the South African presidency.\n\nPanama, during the military dictatorships of Omar Torrijos and Manuel Noriega, was nominally a presidential republic. However, the elected civilian presidents were effectively figureheads with real political power being exercised by the chief of the Panamanian Defense Forces.\n\nHistorically, at the time of the League of Nations (1920–1946) and the founding of the United Nations (1945), India's head of state was the monarch of the United Kingdom, ruling directly or indirectly as Emperor of India through the Viceroy and Governor-General of India.\n\nHead of state is the highest-ranking constitutional position in a sovereign state. A head of state has some or all of the roles listed below, often depending on the constitutional category (above), and does not necessarily regularly exercise the most power or influence of governance. There is usually a formal public ceremony when a person becomes head of state, or some time after. This may be the swearing in at the inauguration of a president of a republic, or the coronation of a monarch.\n\nOne of the most important roles of the modern head of state is being a living national symbol of the state; in hereditary monarchies this extends to the monarch being a symbol of the unbroken continuity of the state. For instance, the Canadian monarch is described by the government as being the personification of the Canadian state and is described by the Department of Canadian Heritage as the \"personal symbol of allegiance, unity and authority for all Canadians\".\n\nIn many countries, official portraits of the head of state can be found in government offices, courts of law, even airports, libraries, and other public buildings. The idea, sometimes regulated by law, is to use these portraits to make the public aware of the symbolic connection to the government, a practice that dates back to medieval times. Sometimes this practice is taken to excess, and the head of state becomes the principal symbol of the nation, resulting in the emergence of a personality cult where the image of the head of state is the only visual representation of the country, surpassing other symbols such as the flag.\n\nOther common representations are on coins, postage and other stamps and banknotes, sometimes by no more than a mention or signature; and public places, streets, monuments and institutions such as schools are named for current or previous heads of state. In monarchies (e.g., Belgium) there can even be a practice to attribute the adjective \"royal\" on demand based on existence for a given number of years. However, such political techniques can also be used by leaders without the formal rank of head of state, even party - and other revolutionary leaders without formal state mandate.\n\nHeads of state often greet important foreign visitors, particularly visiting heads of state. They assume a host role during a state visit, and the programme may feature playing of the national anthems by a military band, inspection of military troops, official exchange of gifts, and attending a state dinner at the official residence of the host.\n\nAt home, heads of state are expected to render luster to various occasions by their presence, such as by attending artistic or sports performances or competitions (often in a theatrical honor box, on a platform, on the front row, at the honours table), expositions, national day celebrations, dedication events, military parades and war remembrances, prominent funerals, visiting different parts of the country and people from different walks of life, and at times performing symbolic acts such as cutting a ribbon, groundbreaking, ship christening, laying the first stone. Some parts of national life receive their regular attention, often on an annual basis, or even in the form of official patronage.\n\nThe Olympic Charter (rule 55.3) of the International Olympic Committee states that the Olympic summer and winter games shall be opened by the head of state of the host nation, by uttering a single formulaic phrase as determined by the charter.\n\nAs such invitations may be very numerous, such duties are often in part delegated to such persons as a spouse, a head of government or a cabinet minister or in other cases (possibly as a message, for instance, to distance themselves without rendering offense) just a military officer or civil servant.\n\nFor non-executive heads of state there is often a degree of censorship by the politically responsible government (such as the head of government). This means that the government discreetly approves agenda and speeches, especially where the constitution (or customary law) assumes all political responsibility by granting the crown inviolability (in fact also imposing political emasculation) as in the Kingdom of Belgium from its very beginning; in a monarchy this may even be extended to some degree to other members of the dynasty, especially the heir to the throne.\n\nBelow follows a list of examples from different countries of general provisions in law, which either designate an office as head of state or define its general purpose.\n\nIn the majority of states, whether republics or monarchies, executive authority is vested, at least notionally, in the head of state. In presidential systems the head of state is the actual, de facto chief executive officer. Under parliamentary systems the executive authority is exercised by the head of state, but in practice is done so on the advice of the cabinet of ministers. This produces such terms as \"Her Majesty's Government\" and \"His Excellency's Government.\" Examples of parliamentary systems in which the head of state is notional chief executive include Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, India, Italy, Norway, Spain and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe few exceptions where the head of state is not even the nominal chief executive - and where supreme executive authority is according to the constitution explicitly vested in a cabinet - include the Czech Republic, Ireland, Israel, Japan and Sweden.\n\nThe head of state usually appoints most or all the key officials in the government, including the head of government and other cabinet ministers, key judicial figures; and all major office holders in the civil service, foreign service and commissioned officers in the military. In many parliamentary systems, the head of government is appointed with the consent (in practice often decisive) of the legislature, and other figures are appointed on the head of government's advice.\n\nIn practice, these decisions are often a formality. The last time the prime minister of the United Kingdom was unilaterally selected by the monarch was in 1963, when Queen Elizabeth II appointed Alec Douglas-Home on the advice of outgoing Prime Minister Harold Macmillan.\n\nIn presidential systems, such as that of the United States, appointments are nominated by the president's sole discretion, but this nomination is often subject to confirmation by the legislature; and specifically in the US, the Senate has to approve senior executive branch and judicial appointments by a simple majority vote.\n\nThe head of state may also dismiss office-holders. There are many variants on how this can be done. For example, members of the Irish Cabinet are dismissed by the president on the advice of the taoiseach; in other instances, the head of state may be able to dismiss an office holder unilaterally; other heads of state, or their representatives, have the theoretical power to dismiss any office-holder, while it is exceptionally rarely used. In France, while the president cannot force the prime minister to tender the resignation of the government, he can, in practice, request it if the prime minister is from his own majority. In presidential systems, the president often has the power to fire ministers at his sole discretion. In the United States, the unwritten convention calls for the heads of the executive departments to resign on their own initiative when called to do so.\n\nSome countries have alternative provisions for senior appointments: In Sweden, under the Instrument of Government of 1974, the Speaker of the Riksdag has the role of formally appointing the prime minister, following a vote in the Riksdag, and the prime minister in turn appoints and dismisses cabinet ministers at his/her sole discretion.\n\nThe Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, which codified longstanding custom, operates under the presumption that the head of a diplomatic mission (i.e. ambassador or nuncio) of the sending state is accredited to the head of state of the receiving state. The head of state accredits (i.e. formally validates) his or her country's ambassadors (or rarer equivalent diplomatic mission chiefs, such as high commissioner or papal nuncio) through sending formal a Letter of Credence (and a Letter of Recall at the end of a tenure) to other heads of state and, conversely, receives the letters of their foreign counterparts. Without that accreditation, the chief of the diplomatic mission cannot take up their role and receive the highest diplomatic status. The role of a head of state in this regard, is codified in the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations from 1961, which (as of 2017) 191 sovereign states has ratified.\n\nHowever, there are provisions in the Vienna Convention that a diplomatic agent of lesser rank, such as a Chargé d'affaires, is accredited to the minister of foreign affairs (or equivalent).\n\nThe head of state is often designated the high contracting party in international treaties on behalf of the state; signs them either personally or has them signed in his/her name by ministers (government members or diplomats); subsequent ratification, when necessary, may rest with the legislature. The treaties constituting the European Union and the European Communities are noteworthy contemporary cases of multilateral treaties cast in this traditional format, as are the accession agreements of new member states. However, rather than being invariably concluded between two heads of state, it has become common that bilateral treaties are in present times cast in an intergovernmental format, e.g., between the \"Government of X and the Government of Y\", rather than between \"His Majesty the King of X and His Excellency the President of Y\".\n\nIn Canada, these head of state powers belong to the monarch as part of the Royal Prerogative, but the Governor General has been permitted to exercise them since 1947 and has done so since the 1970s.\n\nA head of state is often, by virtue of holding the highest executive powers, explicitly designated as the commander-in-chief of that nation's armed forces, holding the highest office in all military chains of command.\n\nIn a constitutional monarchy or non-executive presidency, the head of state may de jure hold ultimate authority over the armed forces but will only normally, as per either written law or unwritten convention, exercise their authority on the advice of their responsible ministers: meaning that the de facto ultimate decision making on military maneuvers is made elsewhere. The head of state will, regardless of actual authority, perform ceremonial duties related to the country's armed forces, and will sometimes appear in military uniform for these purposes; particularly in monarchies where also the monarch's consort and other members of a royal family may also appear in military garb. This is generally the only time a head of state of a stable, democratic country will appear dressed in such a manner, as statesmen and public are eager to assert the primacy of (civilian, elected) politics over the armed forces.\n\nIn military dictatorships, or governments which have arisen from coups d'état, the position of commander-in-chief is obvious, as all authority in such a government derives from the application of military force; occasionally a power vacuum created by war is filled by a head of state stepping beyond his or her normal constitutional role, as King Albert I of Belgium did during World War I. In these and in revolutionary regimes, the head of state, and often executive ministers whose offices are legally civilian, will frequently appear in military uniform.\n\nSome countries with a parliamentary system designate officials other than the head of state with command-in-chief powers. \n\nIt is usual that the head of state, particularly in parliamentary systems as part of the symbolic role, is the one who opens the annual sessions of the legislature, e.g. the annual State Opening of Parliament with the Speech from the Throne in Britain. Even in presidential systems the head of state often formally reports to the legislature on the present national status, e.g. the State of the Union address in the United States of America.\n\nMost countries require that all bills passed by the house or houses of the legislature be signed into law by the head of state. In some states, such as the United Kingdom, Belgium and Ireland, the head of state is, in fact, formally considered a tier of the legislature. However, in most parliamentary systems, the head of state cannot refuse to sign a bill, and, in granting a bill their assent, indicate that it was passed in accordance with the correct procedures. The signing of a bill into law is formally known as \"promulgation\". Some monarchical states call this procedure \"royal assent\".\n\nIn some parliamentary systems, the head of state retains certain powers in relation to bills to be exercised at his or her discretion. They may have authority to veto a bill until the houses of the legislature have reconsidered it, and approved it a second time; reserve a bill to be signed later, or suspend it indefinitely (generally in states with royal prerogative; this power is rarely used); refer a bill to the courts to test its constitutionality; refer a bill to the people in a referendum.\n\nIf he or she is also chief executive, he or she can thus politically control the necessary executive measures without which a proclaimed law can remain dead letter, sometimes for years or even forever.\n\nA head of state is often empowered to summon and dissolve the country's legislature. In most parliamentary systems, this is often done on the advice of the head of government. In some parliamentary systems, and in some presidential systems, however, the head of state may do so on their own initiative. Some states have fixed term legislatures, with no option of bringing forward elections (e.g., Article II, Section 3, of the U.S. Constitution). In other systems there are usually fixed terms, but the head of state retains authority to dissolve the legislature in certain circumstances. Where a head of government has lost support in the legislature, some heads of state may refuse a dissolution, where one is requested, thereby forcing the head of government's resignation.\n\nIn the Commonwealth realms, other than the United Kingdom, a governor-general (\"governor general\" in Canada) is appointed by the sovereign, on the advice of the relevant prime minister, as a representative and to exercise almost all the Royal Prerogative according to established constitutional authority. In Australia the present Queen is generally assumed to be head of state, since the governor-general and the state governors are defined as her \"representatives\". However, since the governor-general performs almost all national regal functions, the governor-general has occasionally been referred to as head of state in political and media discussion. To a lesser extent, uncertainty has been expressed in Canada as to which officeholder—the monarch, the governor general, or both—can be considered the head of state. New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, and Tuvalu explicitly name the monarch as their head of state (though Tuvalu's constitution states that \"references in any law to the Head of State shall be read as including a reference to the Governor-General\"). Governors-general are frequently treated as heads of state on state and official visits; at the United Nations, they are accorded the status of head of state in addition to the sovereign.\n\nAn example of a governor-general departing from constitutional convention by acting unilaterally (that is, without direction from ministers, parliament, or the monarch) occurred in 1926, when Canada's governor general refused the head of government's formal advice requesting a dissolution of parliament and a general election. In a letter informing the monarch after the event, the Governor General said: \"I have to await the verdict of history to prove my having adopted a wrong course, and this I do with an easy conscience that, right or wrong, I have acted in the interests of Canada and implicated no one else in my decision.\"\n\nAnother example occurred when, in the 1975 Australian constitutional crisis, the Governor-General unexpectedly dismissed the Prime Minister in order to break a stalemate between the House of Representatives and Senate over money bills. The Governor-General issued a public statement saying he felt it was the only solution consistent with the constitution, his oath of office, and his responsibilities, authority, and duty as governor-general. A letter from the Queen's Private Secretary at the time, Martin Charteris, confirmed that the only person competent to commission an Australian prime minister was the governor-general and it would not be proper for the monarch to personally intervene in matters that the Constitution Act so clearly places within the governor-general's jurisdiction.\n\nOther Commonwealth realms that are now constituted with a governor-general as the viceregal representative of Elizabeth II are: Antigua and Barbuda, the Bahamas, Belize, Grenada, Jamaica, New Zealand, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.\n\nAlthough many constitutions, particularly from the 19th century and earlier, make no explicit mention of a head of state in the generic sense of several present day international treaties, the officeholders corresponding to this position are recognized as such by other countries. In a monarchy, the monarch is generally understood to be the head of state. In a republic, the head of state nowadays usually bears the title of President, but some have or had had other titles.\n\nIn medieval Europe, it was universally accepted that the Pope ranked first among all rulers and was followed by the Holy Roman Emperor. The Pope also had the sole right to determine the precedence of all others. This principle was first challenged by a Protestant ruler, Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden and was later maintained by his country at the Congress of Westphalia. Great Britain would later claim a break of the old principle for the Quadruple Alliance in 1718. However, it was not until the 1815 Congress of Vienna, when it was decided (due to the abolition of the Holy Roman Empire in 1806 and the weak position of France and other catholic states to assert themselves) and remains so to this day, that all sovereign states are treated as equals, whether monarchies or republics. On occasions when multiple heads of state or their representatives meet, precedence is by the host usually determined in alphabetical order (in whatever language the host determines, although French has for much of the 19th and 20th centuries been the \"lingua franca\" of diplomacy) or by date of accession. Contemporary international law on precedence, built upon the universally admitted principles since 1815, derives from the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations (in particular, articles 13, 16.1 and Appendix iii).\n\nThere are also several methods of head of state succession in the event of the removal, disability or death of an incumbent head of state.\n\nNiccolò Machiavelli used \"Prince\" () as a generic term for the ruler, similar to contemporary usage of \"head of state\", in his classical treatise \"The Prince\", originally published in 1532: in fact that particular literary genre it belongs to is known as Mirrors for princes. Thomas Hobbes in his \"Leviathan\" (1651) used the term \"Sovereign\". In Europe the role of a monarchs has gradually transitioned from that of a sovereign rulerin the sense of Divine Right of Kings as articulated by Jean Bodin, Absolutism and the \"L'etat c'est moi\"to that of a constitutional monarch; parallel with the conceptual evolution of sovereignty from merely the personal rule of a single person, to Westphalian sovereignty (Peace of Westphalia ending both the Thirty Years' War & Eighty Years' War) and popular sovereignty as in consent of the governed; as shown in the Glorious Revolution of 1688 in England & Scotland, the French Revolution in 1789, and the German Revolution of 1918–1919. The monarchies who survived through this era were the ones who were willing to subject themselves to constitutional limitations. Titles commonly used by monarchs are King/Queen or Emperor/Empress, but also many other; e.g., Grand Duke, Prince, Emir and Sultan.\n\nWhenever a head of state is not available for any reason, constitutional provisions may allow the role to fall temporarily to an assigned person or collective body. In a republic, this is - depending on provisions outlined by the constitution or improvised - a vice president, the chief of government, the legislature or its presiding officer. In a monarchy, this is usually a regent or collegial regency (council). For example, in the United States the Vice President acts when the President is incapacitated, and in the United Kingdom the Queen's powers may be delegated to Counselors of State when she is abroad or unavailable.\n\nIn some countries where there is no resident head of state, such as Andorra, a local representative is appointed. In the case of Andorra, two co-princes act as the principality's heads of state; one is also simultaneously the President of France, residing in France, and the other is the Bishop of Urgell, residing in Spain. Each co-prince is represented in Andorra by a delegate, though these persons hold no formal title.\n\nIn exceptional situations, such as war, occupation, revolution or a coup d'état, constitutional institutions, including the symbolically crucial head of state, may be reduced to a figurehead or be suspended in favor of an emergency office (such as the original Roman Dictator) or eliminated by a new \"provisionary\" regime, such as a collective of the junta type, or removed by an occupying force, such as a military governor (an early example being the Spartan Harmost).\n\nSince antiquity, various dynasties or individual rulers have claimed the right to rule by divine authority, such as the Mandate of Heaven and the divine right of kings. Some monarchs even claimed divine ancestry, such as Egyptian pharaohs and Sapa Incas, who claimed descent from their respective sun gods and often sought to maintain this bloodline by practicing incestuous marriage. In Ancient Rome, during the Principate, the title ('divine') was conferred (notably posthumously) on the emperor, a symbolic, legitimating element in establishing a de facto dynasty.\n\nIn Roman Catholicism, the pope was once sovereign pontiff and head of state, first, of the politically important Papal States. After Italian unification, the pope remains head of state of Vatican City. Furthermore, the Bishop of Urgell is \"ex officio\" one of the two Co-Princes of Andorra. In the Church of England, the reigning monarch holds the title Defender of the Faith and acts as Supreme Governor of the Church of England, although this is purely a symbolic role.\n\nDuring the early period of Islam, caliphs were spiritual and temporal absolute successors of the Prophet Mohammed. Various political Muslim leaders since have styled themselves \"Caliph\" and served as dynastic heads of state, sometimes in addition to another title, such as the Ottoman Sultan. Historically, some theocratic Islamic states known as \"imamates\" have been led by imams as head of state, such as in what is now Oman, Yemen, and Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Supreme Leader, at present Ali Khamenei serves as head of state. The Aga Khans, a unique dynasty of temporal/religious leadership, leading an offshoot of Shia Islam in Central and South Asia, once ranking among British India's princely states, continue to the present day.\n\nIn Hinduism, certain dynasties adopted a title expressing their positions as \"servant\" of a patron deity of the state, but in the sense of a viceroy under an absentee god-king, ruling \"in the name of\" the patron god(ess), such as Patmanabha Dasa (servant of Vishnu) in the case of the Maharaja of Travancore.\n\nFrom the time of the 5th Dalai Lama until the political retirement of the 14th Dalai Lama in 2011, Dalai Lamas were both political and spiritual leaders (\"god-king\") of Tibet.\n\nOuter Mongolia, the former homeland of the imperial dynasty of Genghis Khan, was another lamaist theocracy from 1585, using various styles, such as tulku. The establishment of the Communist Mongolian People's Republic replaced this regime in 1924.\n\n\nA collective head of state can exist in republics (internal complexity), e.g., nominal triumvirates, the Directoire, the seven-member Swiss Federal Council (where each member acts in turn as president for one year), Bosnia and Herzegovina with a three-member presidium from three different nations, San Marino with two \"Captains-regent\" which maintains the tradition of Italian medieval republics that had always had an even number of consuls.\n\nIn condominiums, sovereignty is shared between two external powers, e.g., Andorra (president of France and bishop of Urgell, Spain, co-princes), and the former Anglo-French New Hebrides (each nation's head of state was represented by a high commissioner).\n\nIn the Roman Republic there were two heads of state, styled Consul, both of whom alternated months of authority during their year in office, similarly there was an even number of supreme magistrates in the Italic republics of Ancient Age. In the Athenian Republic there were nine supreme magistrates, styled archons. In Carthage there were two supreme magistrates, styled kings or suffetes (judges). In ancient Sparta there were two hereditary kings, belonging to two different dynasties. In the Soviet Union the Central Executive Committee of the Congress of Soviets (between 1922-1938) and later the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet (between 1938-1989) served as the collective head of state. After World War II the Soviet model was subsequently adopted by almost all countries belonged to its sphere of influence. Czechoslovakia remained the only country among them that retained an office of president as a form of a single head of state throughout this period, followed by Romania in 1974. \n\nSuch arrangements are not to be confused with supranational entities which are not states and are not defined by a common monarchy but may (or not) have a symbolic, essentially protocollary, titled highest office, e.g., Head of the Commonwealth (held by the British crown, but not legally reserved for it) or 'Head of the Arab Union' (14 February - 14 July 1958, held by the Hashemite King of Iraq, during its short-lived Federation with Jordan, its Hashemite sister-realm).\n\nThe National Government of the Republic of China, established in 1928, had a panel of about 40 people as collective head of state. Though beginning that year, a provisional constitution made the Kuomintang the sole government party and the National Government bound to the instructions of the Central Executive Committee of that party.\n\nThough president and various monarchichal titles are most commonly used for heads of state, in some nationalistic regimes, the leader adopts, formally or de facto, a unique style simply meaning \"leader\" in the national language, e.g., Germany's single national socialist party chief and combined head of state and government, Adolf Hitler, as the \"Führer\" between 1934 and 1945.\n\nIn 1959, when former British crown colony Singapore gained self-government, it adopted the Malay style \"Yang di-Pertuan Negara\" (literally means \"head of state\" in Malay) for its governor (the actual head of state remained the British monarch). The second and last incumbent of the office, Yusof bin Ishak, kept the style at 31 August 1963 unilateral declaration of independence and after 16 September 1963 accession to Malaysia as a state (so now as a constituent part of the federation, a non-sovereign level). After its expulsion from Malaysia on 9 August 1965, Singapore became a sovereign Commonwealth republic and installed Yusof bin Ishak as its first President.\n\nIn 1959 after the resignation of Vice President of Indonesia Mohammad Hatta, President Sukarno abolished the position and title of vice president, assuming the positions of Prime Minister and Head of Cabinet. He also proclaimed himself president for life (Indonesian: \"Presiden Seumur Hidup Panglima Tertinggi\"; \"panglima\" meaning \"commander or martial figurehead\", \"tertinggi\" meaning \"highest\"; roughly translated to English as \"Supreme Commander of the Revolution\"). He was praised as \"Paduka Yang Mulia\", a Malay honorific originally given to kings; Sukarno awarded himself titles in that fashion due to his noble ancestry.\n\nThere are also a few nations in which the exact title and definition of the office of head of state have been vague. During the Chinese Cultural Revolution, following the downfall of Liu Shaoqi, who was Chairman of the People's Republic of China, no successor was named, so the duties of the head of state were transferred collectively to the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress. This situation was later changed: the Head of State of the PRC is now the President of the People's Republic of China.\n\nIn North Korea, the late Kim Il-sung was named \"Eternal President\" 4 years after his death and the presidency was abolished. As a result, some of the duties previously held by the President are constitutionally delegated to the Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme People's Assembly, who performs some of the roles of a Head of State, such as accrediting foreign ambassadors and undertaking overseas visits. However, the symbolic role of a Head of State is generally performed by Kim Jong-un, who as the leader of the party and military, is the most powerful person in North Korea.\n\nThere is debate as to whether Samoa was an elective monarchy or an aristocratic republic, given the comparative ambiguity of the title \"O le Ao o le Malo\" and the nature of the head of state's office.\n\nIn some states the office of head of state is not expressed in a specific title reflecting that role, but constitutionally awarded to a post of another formal nature. Thus in March 1979 Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, who kept absolute power (until his overthrow in 2011 referred to as \"Guide of the Revolution\"), after ten years as combined Head of State and Head of government of the Libyan \"Jamahiriya\" (\"state of the masses\"), styled Chairman of the Revolutionary Command Council, formally transferred both qualities to the General secretaries of the General People's Congress (comparable to a Speaker) respectively to a Prime Minister, in political reality both were his creatures.\n\nSometimes a head of state assumes office as a state becomes legal and political reality, before a formal title for the highest office is determined; thus in the since 1 January 1960 independent republic Cameroon (\"Cameroun\", a former French colony), the first President, Ahmadou Babatoura Ahidjo, was at first not styled \"président\" but 'merely' known as \"chef d'état\" - (French 'head of state') until 5 May 1960. In Uganda, Idi Amin the military leader after the coup of 25 January 1971 was formally styled \"military head of state\" till 21 February 1971, only from then on regular (but unconstitutional, not elected) president.\n\nIn certain cases a special style is needed to accommodate imperfect statehood, e.g., the title \"Sardar-i-Riyasat\" was used in Kashmir after its accession to India, and the Palestine Liberation Organization leader, Yasser Arafat, was styled the first \"President of the Palestinian National Authority\" in 1994. In 2008, the same office was restyled as \"President of the State of Palestine\".\n\nThe position of head of state can be established in different ways, and with different sources of legitimacy.\n\nPower can come from force, but formal legitimacy is often established, even if only by fictitious claims of continuity (e.g., a forged claim of descent from a previous dynasty). There have been cases of sovereignty granted by deliberate act, even when accompanied by orders of succession (as may be the case in a dynastic split). Such grants of sovereignty are usually forced, as is common with self-determination granted after nationalist revolts. This occurred with the last Attalid king of Hellenistic Pergamon, who by testament left his realm to Rome to avoid a disastrous conquest.\n\nUnder a theocracy, perceived divine status translated into earthly authority under divine law. This can take the form of supreme divine authority above the state's, granting a tool for political influence to a priesthood. In this way, the Amun priesthood reversed the reforms of Pharaoh Akhenaten after his death. The division of theocratic power can be disputed, as happened between the Pope and Holy Roman Emperor in the investiture conflict when the temporal power sought to control key clergy nominations in order to guarantee popular support, and thereby his own legitimacy, by incorporating the formal ceremony of unction during coronation.\n\nThe notion of a social contract holds that the nation—either the whole people or the electorate—gives a mandate, through acclamation or election.\n\nIndividual heads of state may acquire their position by virtue of a constitution. An example includes SFR Yugoslavia whose Constitution from 1974, article 333, stated that Federal Assembly can appoint namely Josip Broz Tito as the President of Republic without time limitation.\n\nThe position of a monarch is usually hereditary, but in constitutional monarchies, there are usually restrictions on the incumbent's exercise of powers and prohibitions on the possibility of choosing a successor by other means than by birth. In a hereditary monarchy, the position of monarch is inherited according to a statutory or customary order of succession, usually within one royal family tracing its origin through a historical dynasty or bloodline. This usually means that the heir to the throne is known well in advance of becoming monarch to ensure a smooth succession. However, many cases of uncertain succession in European history have often led to wars of succession.\n\nPrimogeniture, in which the eldest child of the monarch is first in line to become monarch, is the most common system in hereditary monarchy. The order of succession is usually affected by rules on gender. Historically \"agnatic primogeniture\" or \"patrilineal primogeniture\" was favoured, that is inheritance according to seniority of birth among the sons of a monarch or head of family, with sons and their male issue inheriting before brothers and their issue, and male-line males inheriting before females of the male line. This is the same as semi-Salic primogeniture. Complete exclusion of females from dynastic succession is commonly referred to as application of the Salic law (see \"Terra salica\").\n\nBefore primogeniture was enshrined in European law and tradition, kings would often secure the succession by having their successor (usually their eldest son) crowned during their own lifetime, so for a time there would be two kings in coregency – a senior king and a junior king. Examples include Henry the Young King of England and the early Direct Capetians in France.\n\nSometimes, however, primogeniture can operate through the female line. In some systems a female may rule as monarch only when the male line dating back to a common ancestor is exhausted. In 1980, Sweden, by rewriting its 1810 Act of Succession, became the first European monarchy to declare equal (full cognatic) primogeniture, meaning that the eldest child of the monarch, whether female or male, ascends to the throne. Other European monarchies (such as the Netherlands in 1983, Norway in 1990 and Belgium in 1991) have since followed suit. Similar reforms were proposed in 2011 for the United Kingdom and the other Commonwealth realms, which came into effect in 2015 after having been approved by all of the affected nations. Sometimes religion is affected; under the Act of Settlement 1701 all Roman Catholics and all persons who have married Roman Catholics are ineligible to be the British monarch and are skipped in the order of succession.\n\nIn some monarchies there may be liberty for the incumbent, or some body convening after his or her demise, to choose from eligible members of the ruling house, often limited to legitimate descendants of the dynasty's founder. Rules of succession may be further limited by state religion, residency, equal marriage or even permission from the legislature.\n\nOther hereditary systems of succession included tanistry, which is semi-elective and gives weight to merit and Agnatic seniority. In some monarchies, such as Saudi Arabia, succession to the throne usually first passes to the monarch's next eldest brother, and only after that to the monarch's children (agnatic seniority).\n\nElection usually is the constitutional way to choose the head of state of a republic, and some monarchies, either directly through popular election, indirectly by members of the legislature or of a special college of electors (such as the Electoral College in the United States), or as an exclusive prerogative. Exclusive prerogative allows the heads of states of constituent monarchies of a federation to choose the head of state for the federation among themselves, as in the United Arab Emirates and Malaysia. The Pope, head of state of Vatican City, is chosen by previously appointed cardinals under 80 years of age from among themselves in a papal conclave.\n\nA head of state can be empowered to designate his successor, such as Lord Protector of the Commonwealth Oliver Cromwell, who was succeeded by his son Richard.\n\nA head of state may seize power by force or revolution. This is not the same as the use of force to \"maintain\" power, as is practiced by authoritarian or totalitarian rulers. Dictators often use democratic titles, though some proclaim themselves monarchs. Examples of the latter include Emperor Napoleon III of France and King Zog of Albania. In Spain, general Francisco Franco adopted the formal title \"Jefe del Estado\", or Chief of State, and established himself as regent for a vacant monarchy. Uganda's Idi Amin was one of several who named themselves President for Life.\n\nA foreign power can establishing a branch of their own dynasty, or one friendly to their interests. This was the outcome of the Russo-Swedish War from 1741 to 1743 where the Russian Empress made the imposition of her relative Adolf Frederick as the heir to the Swedish Throne, to succeed Frederick I who lacked legitimate issue, as a peace condition.\n\nApart from violent overthrow, a head of state's position can be lost in several ways, including death, another by expiration of the constitutional term of office, abdication, or resignation. In some cases, an abdication cannot occur unilaterally, but comes into effect only when approved by an act of parliament, as in the case of British King Edward VIII. The post can also be abolished by constitutional change; in such cases, an incumbent may be allowed to finish his or her term. Of course, a head of state position will cease to exist if the state itself does.\n\nHeads of state generally enjoy widest inviolability, although some states allow impeachment, or a similar constitutional procedure by which the highest legislative or judicial authorities are empowered to revoke the head of state's mandate on exceptional grounds. This may be a common crime, a political sin, or an act by which he or she violates such provisions as an established religion mandatory for the monarch. By similar procedure, an original mandate may be declared invalid.\n\nEffigies, memorials and monuments of former heads of state can be designed to represent the history or aspirations of a state or its people, such as the equestrian bronze sculpture of Kaiser Wilhelm I, first Emperor of a unified Germany erected in Berlin at the end of the nineteenth century; or the Victoria Memorial erected in front of Buckingham Palace London, commemorating Queen Victoria and her reign (1837–1901), and unveiled in 1911 by her grandson, King George V; or the monument, placed in front of the Victoria Memorial Hall, Kolkata (Calcutta) (1921), commemorating Queen Victoria's reign as Empress of India from 1876. Another, twentieth century, example is the Mount Rushmore National Memorial, a group sculpture constructed (1927–1941) on a conspicuous skyline in the Black Hills of South Dakota (40th state of the Union, 1889), in the midwestern United States, representing the territorial expansion of the United States in the first 130 years from its founding, which is promoted as the \"Shrine of Democracy\".\n\nFormer Presidents of the United States, while holding no political powers per se, sometimes continue to exert influence in national and world affairs.\n\nA monarch may retain his style and certain prerogatives after abdication, as did King Leopold III of Belgium, who left the throne to his son after winning a referendum which allowed him to retain a full royal household deprived him of a constitutional or representative role. Napoleon transformed the Italian principality of Elba, where he was imprisoned, into a miniature version of his First Empire, with most trappings of a sovereign monarchy, until his \"Cent Jours\" escape and reseizure of power in France convinced his opponents, reconvening the Vienna Congress in 1815, to revoke his gratuitous privileges and send him to die in exile on barren Saint Helena.\n\nBy tradition, deposed monarchs who have not freely abdicated continue to use their monarchical titles as a courtesy for the rest of their lives. Hence, even after Constantine II ceased to be \"King of the Hellenes\", it is still common to refer to the deposed king and his family as if they were still on the throne, as many European royal courts and households do in guest lists at royal weddings, as in Sweden in 2010, Britain in 2011 and Luxembourg in 2012. The Republic of Greece oppose the right of their deposed monarch and former royal family members to be referred to by their former titles or bearing a surname indicating royal status, and has enacted legislation which hinder acquisition of Greek citizenship unless those terms are met. The former king brought this issue, along with property ownership issues, before the European Court of Human Rights for alleged violations of the European Convention on Human Rights, but lost with respect to the name issue.\n\nHowever, some other states have no problem with deposed monarchs being referred to by their former title, and even allow them to travel internationally on the state's diplomatic passport.\n\nIn the Italian constitution provides that after the period sent the President of the Republic takes the title President Emeritus of the Italian Republic is also a senator for life, and enjoys immunity, flight status and official residences certain privileges.\n\n\nLists:\n"}
{"id": "1191804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1191804", "title": "Heterarchy", "text": "Heterarchy\n\nA heterarchy is a system of organization where the elements of the organization are unranked (non-hierarchical) or where they possess the potential to be ranked a number of different ways. Definitions of the term vary among the disciplines: in social and information sciences, heterarchies are networks of elements in which each element shares the same \"horizontal\" position of power and authority, each playing a theoretically equal role. But in biological taxonomy, the requisite features of heterarchy involve, for example, a species sharing, with a species in a different family, a common ancestor which it does not share with members of its own family. This is theoretically possible under principles of \"horizontal gene transfer\".\n\nA heterarchy may be parallel to a hierarchy, subsumed to a hierarchy, or it may contain hierarchies; the two kinds of structure are not mutually exclusive. In fact, each level in a hierarchical system is composed of a potentially heterarchical group which contains its constituent elements.\n\nThe concept of heterarchy was first employed in a modern context by Warren McCulloch in 1945. As Carole L. Crumley has summarised, \"[h]e examined alternative cognitive structure(s), the collective organization of which he termed heterarchy. He demonstrated that the human brain, while reasonably orderly was not organized hierarchically. This understanding revolutionized the neural study of the brain and solved major problems in the fields of artificial intelligence and computer design.\"\n\nIn a group of related items, heterarchy is a state wherein any pair of items is likely to be related in two or more differing ways. Whereas hierarchies sort groups into progressively smaller categories and subcategories, heterarchies divide and unite groups variously, according to multiple concerns that emerge or recede from view according to perspective. Crucially, no one way of dividing a heterarchical system can ever be a totalizing or all-encompassing view of the system, each division is clearly partial, and in many cases, a partial division leads us, as perceivers, to a feeling of contradiction that invites a new way of dividing things. (But of course the next view is just as partial and temporary.) Heterarchy is a name for this state of affairs, and a description of a heterarchy usually requires ambivalent thought... a willingness to ambulate freely between unrelated perspectives.\n\nHowever, because the requirements for a heterarchical system are not exactly stated, identifying a heterarchy through the use of archaeological materials can often prove to be difficult.\n\nExamples of heterarchical conceptualizations include the Gilles Deleuze/Félix Guattari conceptions of deterritorialization, rhizome, and body without organs.\n\nNumerous observers in the information sciences have argued that heterarchical structure processes more information more effectively than hierarchical design. An example of the potential effectiveness of heterarchy would be the rapid growth of the heterarchical Wikipedia project in comparison with the failed growth of the Nupedia project. Heterarchy increasingly trumps hierarchy as complexity and rate of change increase.\n\nInformational heterarchy can be defined as an organizational form somewhere between hierarchy and network that provides horizontal links that permit different elements of an organization to cooperate whilst individually optimizing different success criteria. In an organizational context the value of heterarchy derives from the way in which it permits the legitimate valuation of multiple skills, types of knowledge or working styles without privileging one over the other. In information science, therefore, heterarchy, responsible autonomy and hierarchy are sometimes combined under the umbrella term Triarchy.\n\nThis concept has also been applied to the field of archaeology, where it has enabled researchers to better understand social complexity. For further reading see the works of Carole Crumley.\n\nAnthropologist Dmitri Bondarenko follows Carole Crumley in her definition of heterarchy as \"the relation of elements to one another when they are unranked or when they possess the potential for being ranked in a number of different ways\" and argues that it is therefore not strictly the opposite of hierarchy, but is rather the opposite of homoarchy, which is itself defined as \"the relation of elements to one another when they possess the potential for being ranked in one way only\".\n\nDavid C. Stark has been contributing to developing the concept of heterarchy in the sociology of organizations.\n\nPolitical hierarchies and heterarchies are systems in which multiple dynamic power structures govern the actions of the system. They represent different types of network structures that allow differing degrees of connectivity. In a (tree-structured) hierarchy every node is connected to at most one parent node and zero or more child nodes. In a heterarchy, however, a node can be connected to any of its surrounding nodes without needing to go through or get permission from some other node.\n\nSocially, a heterarchy distributes privilege and decision-making among participants, while a hierarchy assigns more power and privilege to the members high in the structure. In a systemic perspective, Gilbert Probst, Jean-Yves Mercier and others describe heterarchy as the flexibility of the formal relationships inside an organization. Domination and subordination links can be reversed and privileges can be redistributed in each situation, following the needs of the system.\n\nA heterarchical network could be used to describe neuron connections or democracy, although there are clearly hierarchical elements in both.\n\nThe term heterarchy is used in conjunction with the concepts of holons and holarchy to describe individual systems at each level of a holarchy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51861933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51861933", "title": "Homelessness in Egypt", "text": "Homelessness in Egypt\n\nHomelessness in Egypt is a significant social issue affecting some 12 million people in the country. Egypt has over 1,200 areas designated for irregular dwellings that do not conform to standard building laws, allowing homeless people to build shacks and other shelters for themselves.\n\nReportedly, in Egypt, homelessness is defined to include those living in marginal housing. Some scholars have stated that there is no agreed upon definition of homelessness in Egypt due to the difficulties government would face if an official definition were accepted.\n\nAccording to UNICEF, there are 1 million children living on the streets in Egypt. Other researchers estimate the number to be some 3 million. Homelessness NGOs assisting street children include those such as Hope Village Society, and NAFAS. Other NGOs, such as Plan International Egypt, work to reintegrate street children back into their families.\n"}
{"id": "22541326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22541326", "title": "House of Numbers: Anatomy of an Epidemic", "text": "House of Numbers: Anatomy of an Epidemic\n\nHouse of Numbers: Anatomy of an Epidemic is a 2009 documentary film directed, produced, and hosted by Brent Leung and described by him as an objective examination of the idea that HIV causes AIDS. The film argues that human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is harmless and does not cause acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), a position known as AIDS denialism. The film's claims of impartiality have been widely rejected by scientists, and the film's claims about HIV/AIDS have been dismissed as pseudoscience and conspiracy theory masquerading as even-handed examination.\n\nA group of scientists interviewed for the film later complained that their comments had been misrepresented and taken out of context, and that the film promotes pseudoscience. The film also interviews Christine Maggiore, a prominent AIDS denialist who later died after suffering from AIDS-related conditions.\n\nLeung has declined to discuss funding for the film except to state that funders came from \"all over the world\". In the film, Leung interviews a range of scientists and AIDS denialists, most notably Christine Maggiore. At the time of filming, Maggiore was HIV-positive and appeared healthy, despite her refusal to take anti-retroviral medication, which mainstream medicine uses to slow down the rate at which HIV destroys CD4+ T-cells. As she said in the film, she refused to take the medication, and had not had her daughter, Eliza Jane Scovill, tested, or provided her with medication, because she believed HIV did not cause AIDS. Rather, she believed that the medication itself caused AIDS. Maggiore's relative health, despite years of infection, is used by the film to support the idea that anti-retrovirals are unnecessary to combat, and may themselves cause, AIDS.\n\nThe film was screened at the multiple small film festivals, including the London Raindance film festival A panel discussion of the film at a Boston film festival was disrupted by Leung and other AIDS denialists in the audience, who attempted to shout down members of the panel with whom they disagreed.\n\nBoth Maggiore and her daughter died of AIDS-related complications before the film's release, although their deaths are mentioned only in small print during the closing credits along with a claim that Maggiore's death was \"unrelated to HIV.\" Maggiore's daughter died in September 2005 of AIDS-related infections, although Maggiore rejected the cause of death and argued that the coroner's report was politically motivated. Maggiore herself died in December 2008 from AIDS-related opportunistic infections.\n\nEighteen scientists interviewed in the film stated that their answers to Leung's questions were selectively edited to convey a false sense that the scientific community disagrees on basic facts about HIV/AIDS. Two interviewees, Neil Constantine and Robin Weiss, cite examples supporting the allegation that Leung misrepresented their words in a \"surely intentional\" manner. Brent Leung denied taking quotes out of context.\n\nThe film's promotion of AIDS denialism, a pseudoscientific movement implicated in thousands of deaths, drew criticism and anger. The \"New York Times\" characterized the film as \"a weaselly support pamphlet for AIDS denialists\", \"willfully ignorant\", and \"a globe-trotting pseudo-investigation that should raise the hackles of anyone with even a glancing knowledge of the basic rules of reasoning.\" \"The Wall Street Journal\" cited the film as part of \"this season's fashion in conspiracy theories.\" The \"Portland Oregonian\" criticized Leung for \"not being entirely honest with viewers,\" and decried the film's reliance on \"selective editing, anomalies and anecdotes, unsupported conclusions... and suppression of inconvenient facts.\"\n\nReaction from the scientific community was similarly negative. \"Lancet Infectious Diseases\" criticized the film's arguments, calling them a \"toxic combination of misrepresentation and sophistry.\" AIDSTruth.org, a website created by HIV researchers to address AIDS denialism, criticized the film for concealing its \"agenda behind a false veneer of honest inquiry\", and published a rebuttal to some of the film's claims. Ben Goldacre, writing in \"The Guardian\", described \"House of Numbers\" as \"a dreary and pernicious piece of Aids denialist propaganda.\"\n\nIn February 2014 several people involved with the film filed DMCA notices against a YouTube science blogger named Myles Power, who had made a video series debunking claims made in the film. Power argued that the film was fair use as criticism and education. Several commentators described the notices as attempted censorship. The videos were restored several days later.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14426179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14426179", "title": "Issue network", "text": "Issue network\n\nIssue networks are an alliance of various interest groups and individuals who unite in order to promote a common cause or agenda in a way that influences government policy. Issue networks can be either domestic or international in scope depending on their collective goal. With the rise of the internet, many interest groups have turned to online resources, such as blogs and social media, to promote and spread their cause because of its low cost and high efficiency in outreach. An Issue network's tactics vary depending on their goals and purpose. In developed countries, issue networks often push for a change in policy within the government bureaucracy. An example includes the wide-ranging network of environmental groups and individuals who push for more environmental regulation in government policy. Other issue networks may revolve around such controversial issues as abortion, gun ownership rights, and drug laws. In the most extreme circumstances issue networks may seek to achieve their means through violence, such as terrorist organizations looking to overthrow existing governments all together. In the U.S, the most common tactic of effective issue networks is the role they play in what is called Iron Triangles. This is the term used to describe the three way back and forth communication process between Congress, Bureaucracies, and the interest groups that make up an issue network where they discuss policy and agendas in order to compromise on solutions to satisfy each other's agendas.\n\nIn this table, subjects are categorized from high to low complexity and salience. Salience, meaning how high something affects a large number of people, and complexity meaning how much training and knowledge is needed for someone to answer the questions that can be asked about the subject. The typography below is by William T. Gormley\nIron triangles are three-pronged relationships that are used between interest groups. Generally these interest groups are composed of businesses, congressional committees, and Federal agencies set to deal with a certain issue. These iron triangles do not have the general welfare of the public in mind, but are for the furthering of favorable policies for the interest group. For example, an iron triangle dealing with fossil fuels would be composed of a business or corporation dealing in fossil fuels, a congressional committee who oversees fossil fuel laws and regulations, and a fossil fuel Federal Agency which makes sure these laws are obeyed. However, iron triangles do not benefit the public, they only benefit the players within the iron triangle. Some cases these iron triangles not only benefit inside the ring, but often do so at the expense of the constituencies that Congress and these Federal bureaucracies are supposed to represent.\n\nIssue networks are not the same as iron triangles for several reasons. One of the main differences between iron triangles and issue networks is that issue networks are generally free-forming groups of people in the public sector who form a coalition together, not through a congressional committee, or a Federal Agency but are bound together to accomplish a task at hand. These groups, most often, once the goal has been accomplished either A, break up and only form if the issue is brought back up, or B, find another issue similar in scope which they want to tackle. Another difference between iron triangles and Issue networks is that sometimes they can be at antagonistic with one another. Referring back to the paragraph above, if we take an iron triangle issue network who wants to build a pipeline, an issue network can form as a group of citizens who oppose it. They may oppose it for various reasons, but what brings them together temporarily is to not allow it to be built. If the issue network is successful in blocking the fossil fuel pipeline, then the issue network may dissolve because the task has been accomplished. Another example is the case in regards to [,[environmental issue]] networks that disagree with the lax environmental standards pursued by private energy companies. It is also important to note often different Issue networks can also compete with one another, as in the case of pro-life and pro-choice sides of abortion.\n\nInterest groups are organizations that may be formed by constitutes of an issue network to help promote their cause. They usually focus on tactics of raising money to donate to political campaigns and lobbying politicians already elected into office. Forming these organizations are often the most effective way for an issue network to influence government policy. Without them, it can be hard for the members of issue networks to unite as a whole in order to effectively make their demands heard. Interest groups play an integral part of Iron Triangle networks. They act as the voice of the people in the constant communication between themselves, legislatures, and bureaucracies.\n\nFrom a stable policy community, through a period of substantial change under firm government control, to a densely populated and competitive environment composed of issue networks. In countries such as Australia and the United Kingdom, government is returning to a more interactive strategy regarding issue networks. In other countries, group input is a vital component of the policy-making process, through that process bureaucratic expertise is built-up and maintained. The existence of knowledgeable government agencies is necessary to balance the demands of competing groups and thereby ensure greater stability of policy outcomes. For example, in Australia, higher education is a good example of how the government is listening to clientele groups (issue networks) less than they were in the past due to the complexity of universities and the higher education system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1424742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1424742", "title": "Joseph Nasi", "text": "Joseph Nasi\n\n\"Dom\" Joseph Nasi (or Nassi; also known as João Miques/Micas and Dom João Migas Mendes in a Portuguese variant, Giuseppe Nasi in Italian, and as Yasef Nassi in Ottoman Turkish; 1524, Portugal – 1579, Constantinople) was a Portuguese Sephardi diplomat and administrator, member of the House of Mendes/Benveniste, nephew of Dona Gracia Mendes Nasi, and an influential figure in the Ottoman Empire during the rules of both Sultan Suleiman I and his son Selim II. He was a great benefactor of the Jewish people.\n\nA Court Jew, he was appointed the Lord of Tiberias, with the expressed aim of resettling Jews in Ottoman Syria and encouraging industry there; the attempt failed, and, later, he was appointed to the Duke of Naxos. Nasi also brought about war with the Republic of Venice, at the end of which Venice lost the island of Cyprus to the Ottomans. After the death of Selim, he lost influence in the Ottoman Court, but was allowed to keep his titles and pension for the remainder of his life.\n\nJoao Micas, Yosef Nasi was born in Portugal as a \"Marrano\" (practicing Judaism in secret), a son of the doctor Agostinho Micas (?-1525), a well known physician and professor at the University of Lisbon. A friend of Maximilian, nephew of the Habsburg King Charles I of Spain. He escaped to Portugal after Charles decided to confiscate the Mendes fortune, and, after the Holy Inquisition began operating against Portuguese \"Marranos\" in 1546, moved to Antwerp, in the Habsburg Netherlands, with his aunt, Doña Gracia Mendes Nasi. He studied at the University of Louvain, but had to flee the Inquisition in 1547. He then moved to France and later to Venice, before finally leaving for the Ottoman realm in 1554, where he married Ana (Reyna) Mendes, the daughter of his aunt Gracia Mendes Nasi.\n\nWhen he arrived in Constantinople together with his aunt Gracia Mendes Nasi, Nasi made a fortunate decision in supporting the future sultan Selim II, against his rival Bayezid; as a result, he was favored by the Seraglio, and eventually became a high ranking diplomat and minister.\n\nDue to his trading connections in Europe, he was able to exercise great influence on Ottoman foreign policy. Among his achievements were negotiating peace with Poland and influencing the new election of the Polish king. He was awarded the monopoly of the beeswax trade with Poland, and of the wine trade with Moldavia, and maneuvered in the latter country to keep princes favorable to his policies in power. In 1561, Nasi backed Ioan Iacob Heraclid to rule as \"despot\", supported Alexandru Lăpuşneanu's return to the throne in place of Ştefan Tomşa (1564), and ultimately endorsed Ion Vodă cel Cumplit (1572); he was himself considered a suitable choice for \"hospodar\" of either Moldavia or Wallachia in 1571, but Selim II rejected the proposal.\n\nDuring the war between the Ottomans and the Republic of Venice, Nasi's negotiations with the Jewish community in Venetian-ruled Cyprus were uncovered, and, as a result, the Jewish population of Famagusta (with the exception of Jews who were natives of the city) was expelled in June, 1568 (\"see History of the Jews in Cyprus\"). It is believed that he intended parts of Cyprus to be a Jewish colony and encouraged the Ottoman annexation of Cyprus in the war to that end; he was granted a coat of arms by Selim that indicated he would be given viceregal rank in that colony. Nasi's relative Abraham Benveniste (\"Righetto Marrano\") was arrested in 1570, on charges of having set fire to the Venetian Arsenal on Nasi's instigation.\n\nMaintaining contacts with William the Silent, Nasi encouraged the Netherlands to revolt against Spain, a major adversary of the Ottoman Empire (the rebellion was ultimately carried out by the Union of Utrecht, as the start of the Eighty Years' War). For this and other achievements, he was appointed by Selim to become the Duke of Naxos; he also later became the Count of Andros. Represented locally by one Francesco Coronello, Nasi mainly ruled the Duchy from his palace of \"Belvedere\", where he also maintained his own Hebrew printing press, which was kept by his wife, Doña Reyna, after Joseph's death.\n\nJoseph Nasi is best known to history for his attempt to resettle the towns of Tiberias and Safed in 1561. He was the first person to attempt to settle Jews in the cities of what was then Southern Syria by practical means, as opposed to waiting for the Messiah.\n\nNasi secured a grant giving ruling authority from the Sultan, and, with the assistance of Joseph ben Adruth, rebuilt the walls and the town. He also attempted to turn it into a textile (silk) center by planting mulberry trees and encouraging craftsmen to move there. Arrangements were made for Jews to move from the Papal States, but, when the Ottomans and the Republic of Venice went to war, the plan was abandoned.\n\nNasi is a character in Altai by Wu Ming.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7515890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7515890", "title": "Kuwait", "text": "Kuwait\n\nKuwait (; ', or ), officially the State of Kuwait ( '), is a country in Western Asia. Situated in the northern edge of Eastern Arabia at the tip of the Persian Gulf, it shares borders with Iraq and Saudi Arabia. , Kuwait has a population of 4.2 million people: 1.3 million are Kuwaitis and 2.9 million are expatriates. Expatriates account for 70% of the population.\n\nOil reserves were discovered in commercial quantities in 1938. From 1946 to 1982, the country underwent large-scale modernization. In the 1980s, Kuwait experienced a period of geopolitical instability and an economic crisis following the stock market crash. In 1990, Kuwait was invaded, and later annexed, by Saddam’s Iraq. The Iraqi occupation of Kuwait came to an end in 1991 after military intervention by a military coalition led by the United States. Kuwait is a major non-NATO ally of the United States. It is also a major ally of ASEAN, while maintaining a strong relationship with China.\nKuwait is a constitutional sovereign state with a semi-democratic political system. Kuwait has a high-income economy backed by the world's sixth largest oil reserves. The Kuwaiti dinar is the highest valued currency in the world. According to the World Bank, the country has the fourth highest per capita income. The Constitution was promulgated in 1962. Kuwait is home to the largest opera house in the Middle East. The Kuwait National Cultural District is a member of the Global Cultural Districts Network.\n\nIn 1613, the town of Kuwait was founded in modern-day Kuwait City. In 1716, the Bani Utub settled in Kuwait, which at this time was inhabited by a few fishermen and primarily functioned as a fishing village. In the eighteenth century, Kuwait prospered and rapidly became the principal commercial center for the transit of goods between India, Muscat, Baghdad and Arabia. By the mid 1700s, Kuwait had already established itself as the major trading route from the Persian Gulf to Aleppo.\n\nDuring the Persian siege of Basra in 1775–79, Iraqi merchants took refuge in Kuwait and were partly instrumental in the expansion of Kuwait's boat-building and trading activities. As a result, Kuwait's maritime commerce boomed, as the Indian trade routes with Baghdad, Aleppo, Smyrna and Constantinople were diverted to Kuwait during this time. The East India Company was diverted to Kuwait in 1792. The East India Company secured the sea routes between Kuwait, India and the east coasts of Africa. After the Persians withdrew from Basra in 1779, Kuwait continued to attract trade away from Basra.\n\nKuwait was the center of boat building in the Persian Gulf region. During the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, vessels made in Kuwait carried the bulk of trade between the ports of India, East Africa and the Red Sea. Kuwaiti ships were renowned throughout the Indian Ocean. Regional geopolitical turbulence helped foster economic prosperity in Kuwait in the second half of the 18th century. Perhaps the biggest catalyst for much of Kuwait becoming prosperous was due to Basra's instability in the late 18th century. In the late 18th century, Kuwait partly functioned as a haven for Basra's merchants, who were fleeing Ottoman government persecution. Kuwaitis developed a reputation as the best sailors in the Persian Gulf.\n\nThe Sheikhdom of Kuwait became a British protectorate in 1899 (until 1961) after the Anglo-Kuwaiti Agreement of 1899 was signed between Sheikh Mubarak Al Sabah and the British government in India due to severe threats to Kuwait's independence from the Ottoman Empire.\nFollowing the Kuwait–Najd War of 1919–20, Ibn Saud imposed a trade blockade against Kuwait from the years 1923 until 1937. The goal of the Saudi economic and military attacks on Kuwait was to annex as much of Kuwait's territory as possible. At the Uqair conference in 1922, the boundaries of Kuwait and Najd were set; as a result of British interference, Kuwait had no representative at the Uqair conference. Ibn Saud persuaded Sir Percy Cox to give him two-thirds of Kuwait's territory. More than half of Kuwait was lost due to Uqair. After the Uqair conference, Kuwait was still subjected to a Saudi economic blockade and intermittent Saudi raiding.\n\nThe Great Depression harmed Kuwait's economy, starting in the late 1920s. International trading was one of Kuwait's main sources of income before oil. Kuwaiti merchants were mostly intermediary merchants. As a result of the decline of European demand for goods from India and Africa, Kuwait's economy suffered. The decline in international trade resulted in an increase in gold smuggling by Kuwaiti ships to India. Some Kuwaiti merchant families became rich from this smuggling. Kuwait's pearl industry also collapsed as a result of the worldwide economic depression. At its height, Kuwait's pearl industry had led the world's luxury market, regularly sending out between 750 and 800 ships to meet the European elite's desire for pearls. During the economic depression, luxuries like pearls were in little demand. The Japanese invention of cultured pearls also contributed to the collapse of Kuwait's pearl industry.\n\nFrom 1946 to 1982, Kuwait experienced a period of prosperity driven by oil and its liberal atmosphere. In popular discourse, the years between 1946 and 1982 are referred to as the \"Golden Era\". In 1950, a major public-work programme began to enable Kuwaitis to enjoy a modern standard of living. By 1952, the country became the largest oil exporter in the Persian Gulf region. This massive growth attracted many foreign workers, especially from Palestine, India, and Egypt – with the latter being particularly political within the context of the Arab Cold War. In June 1961, Kuwait became independent with the end of the British protectorate and the Sheikh Abdullah Al-Salim Al-Sabah became Emir of Kuwait. Kuwait's national day, however, is celebrated on 25 February, the anniversary of the coronation of Sheikh Abdullah (it was originally celebrated on 19 June, the date of independence, but concerns over the summer heat caused the government to move it). Under the terms of the newly drafted Constitution, Kuwait held its first parliamentary elections in 1963. Kuwait was the first of the Arab states of the Persian Gulf to establish a constitution and parliament.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, Kuwait was the most developed country in the region. Kuwait was the pioneer in the Middle East in diversifying its earnings away from oil exports. The Kuwait Investment Authority is the world's first sovereign wealth fund. From the 1970s onward, Kuwait scored highest of all Arab countries on the Human Development Index. Kuwait University was established in 1966. Kuwait's theatre industry was well-known throughout the Arab world.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, Kuwait's press was described as one of the freest in the world. Kuwait was the pioneer in the literary renaissance in the Arab region. In 1958, \"Al Arabi\" magazine was first published, the magazine went on to become the most popular magazine in the Arab world. Many Arab writers moved to Kuwait because they enjoyed greater freedom of expression than elsewhere in the Arab world. The Iraqi poet Ahmed Matar left Iraq in the 1970s to take refuge in the more liberal environment of Kuwait.\n\nKuwaiti society embraced liberal and Western attitudes throughout the 1960s and 1970s. For example, most Kuwaiti women did not wear the hijab in the 1960s and 70s.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Kuwait experienced a major economic crisis after the Souk Al-Manakh stock market crash and decrease in oil price.\n\nDuring the Iran–Iraq War, Kuwait supported Iraq. Throughout the 1980s, there were several terror attacks in Kuwait, including the 1983 Kuwait bombings, hijacking of several Kuwait Airways planes and the attempted assassination of Emir Jaber in 1985. Kuwait was a regional hub of science and technology in the 1960s and 1970s up until the early 1980s; the scientific research sector significantly suffered due to the terror attacks.\n\nAfter the Iran–Iraq War ended, Kuwait declined an Iraqi request to forgive its US$65 billion debt. An economic rivalry between the two countries ensued after Kuwait increased its oil production by 40 percent. Tensions between the two countries increased further in July 1990, after Iraq complained to OPEC claiming that Kuwait was stealing its oil from a field near the border by slant drilling of the Rumaila field.\n\nIn August 1990, Iraqi forces invaded and annexed Kuwait. After a series of failed diplomatic negotiations, the United States led a coalition to remove the Iraqi forces from Kuwait, in what became known as the Gulf War. On 26 February 1991, the coalition succeeded in driving out the Iraqi forces. As they retreated, Iraqi forces carried out a scorched earth policy by setting oil wells on fire. During the Iraqi occupation, more than 1,000 Kuwaiti civilians were killed. In addition, more than 600 Kuwaitis went missing during Iraq's occupation, approximately 375 remains were found in mass graves in Iraq.\nIn March 2003, Kuwait became the springboard for the US-led invasion of Iraq. Upon the death of the Emir Jaber in January 2006, Saad Al-Sabah succeeded him but was removed nine days later by the Kuwaiti parliament due to his ailing health. Sabah Al-Sabah was sworn in as Emir.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2009, Kuwait had the highest Human Development Index ranking in the Arab world. In 2005, women won the right to vote and run in elections. In 2014 and 2015, Kuwait was ranked first among Arab countries in the Global Gender Gap Report. Sabah Al Ahmad Sea City was inaugurated in mid 2015.\n\nThe Amiri Diwan is currently developing the new Kuwait National Cultural District (KNCD), which comprises Sheikh Abdullah Al Salem Cultural Centre, Sheikh Jaber Al Ahmad Cultural Centre, Al Shaheed Park, and Al Salam Palace. With a capital cost of more than US$1 billion, the project is one of the largest cultural investments in the world. In November 2016, the Sheikh Jaber Al Ahmad Cultural Centre opened. It is the largest cultural centre in the Middle East. The Kuwait National Cultural District is a member of the Global Cultural Districts Network.\n\nKuwaiti popular culture, in the form of theatre, radio, music, and television soap opera, flourishes and is even exported to neighboring states. Within the Gulf Arab states, the culture of Kuwait is the closest to the culture of Bahrain; this is evident in the close association between the two states in theatrical productions and soap operas.\n\nKuwaiti society is markedly more open than other Gulf Arab societies. Kuwaiti citizens are ethnically diverse, consisting of both Arabs and Persians ('Ajam). Kuwait stands out in the region as the most liberal in empowering women in the public sphere. Kuwaiti women outnumber men in the workforce. Kuwaiti political scientist Ghanim Alnajjar sees these qualities as a manifestation of Kuwaiti society as a whole, whereby in the Gulf region it is “the least strict about traditions”.\n\nKuwait's television drama industry tops other Gulf drama industries and produces a minimum of fifteen serials annually. Kuwait is the production centre of the Gulf television drama and comedy scene. Most Gulf television drama and comedy productions are filmed in Kuwait. Kuwaiti soap operas are the most-watched soap operas from the Gulf region. Soap operas are most popular during the time of Ramadan, when families gather to break their fast. Although usually performed in the Kuwaiti dialect, they have been shown with success as far away as Tunisia. Kuwait is frequently dubbed the \"Hollywood of the Gulf\" due to the popularity of its television soap operas and theatre.\n\nKuwait is known for its home-grown tradition of theatre. Kuwait is the only country in the Gulf with a theatrical tradition. The theatrical movement in Kuwait constitutes a major part of the country's cultural life. Theatrical activities in Kuwait began in the 1920s when the first spoken dramas were released. Theatre activities are still popular today. Abdulhussain Abdulredha is the most prominent actor.\n\nKuwait is the main centre of scenographic and theatrical training in the Gulf region. In 1973, the Higher Institute of Theatrical Arts was founded by the government to provide higher education in theatrical arts. The institute has several divisions. Many actors have graduated from the institute, such as Souad Abdullah, Mohammed Khalifa, Mansour Al-Mansour, along with a number of prominent critics such as Ismail Fahd Ismail.\n\nTheatre in Kuwait is subsidized by the government, previously by the Ministry of Social Affairs and now by the National Council for Culture, Arts, and Letters (NCCAL). Every urban district has a public theatre. The public theatre in Salmiya is named after Abdulhussain Abdulredha.\n\nKuwait has the oldest modern arts movement in the Arabian Peninsula. Beginning in 1936, Kuwait was the first Gulf country to grant scholarships in the arts. The Kuwaiti artist Mojeb al-Dousari was the earliest recognized visual artist in the Gulf region. He is regarded as the founder of portrait art in the region. The Sultan Gallery was the first professional Arab art gallery in the Gulf.\n\nKuwait is home to more than 30 art galleries. In recent years, Kuwait's contemporary art scene has boomed. Khalifa Al-Qattan was the first artist to hold a solo exhibition in Kuwait. He founded a new art theory in the early 1960s known as \"circulism\". Other notable Kuwaiti artists include Sami Mohammad, Thuraya Al-Baqsami and Suzan Bushnaq.\n\nThe government organizes various arts festivals, including the Al Qurain Cultural Festival and Formative Arts Festival. The Kuwait International Biennial was inaugurated in 1967, more than 20 Arab and foreign countries have participated in the biennial. Prominent participants include Layla Al-Attar. In 2004, the Al Kharafi Biennial for Contemporary Arab Art was inaugurated.\n\nKuwait is the birthplace of various popular musical genres, such as sawt. Kuwaiti music has considerably influenced the music culture in other GCC countries. Traditional Kuwaiti music is a reflection of the country's seafaring heritage, which is known for genres such as fijiri. Kuwait pioneered contemporary Khaliji music. Kuwaitis were the first commercial recording artists in the Gulf region. The first known Kuwaiti recordings were made between 1912 and 1915.\n\nThe Sheikh Jaber Al-Ahmad Cultural Centre contains the largest opera house in the Middle East. Kuwait is home to various music festivals, including the International Music Festival hosted by the National Council for Culture, Arts and Letters (NCCAL). Kuwait has several academic institutions specializing in university-level music education. The Higher Institute of Musical Arts was established by the government to provide bachelor's degrees in music. In addition, the College of Basic Education offers bachelor's degrees in music education. The Institute of Musical Studies offers degrees equivalent to secondary school.\n\nKuwait has, in recent years, produced several prominent contemporary writers such as Ismail Fahd Ismail, author of over twenty novels and numerous short story collections. There is also evidence that Kuwaiti literature has long been interactive with English and French literature.\n\nThe new Kuwait National Cultural District (KNCD) consists of various cultural venues including Sheikh Abdullah Al Salem Cultural Centre, Sheikh Jaber Al Ahmad Cultural Centre, Al Shaheed Park, and Al Salam Palace. With a capital cost of more than US$1 billion, it is one of the largest cultural districts in the world. The Abdullah Salem Cultural Centre is the largest museum complex in the Middle East. The Kuwait National Cultural District is a member of the Global Cultural Districts Network. \n\nSeveral Kuwaiti museums are devoted to Islamic art, most notably the Tareq Rajab Museums and Dar al Athar al Islamiyyah cultural centres. The Dar al Athar al Islamiyyah cultural centres include education wings, conservation labs, and research libraries. There are several art libraries in Kuwait. Khalifa Al-Qattan's Mirror House is the most popular art museum in Kuwait. Many museums in Kuwait are private enterprises. In contrast to the top-down approach in other Gulf states, museum development in Kuwait reflects a greater sense of civic identity and demonstrates the strength of civil society in Kuwait, which has produced many independent cultural enterprises.\n\nSadu House is among Kuwait's most important cultural institutions. Bait Al-Othman is the largest museum specializing in Kuwait's history. The Scientific Center is one of the largest science museums in the Middle East. The Museum of Modern Art showcases the history of modern art in Kuwait and the region. The National Museum, established in 1983, has been described as \"underused and overlooked\".\n\nFootball is the most popular sport in Kuwait. The Kuwait Football Association (KFA) is the governing body of football in Kuwait. The KFA organises the men's, women's, and futsal national teams. The Kuwaiti Premier League is the top league of Kuwaiti football, featuring eighteen teams. They have been the champions of the 1980 AFC Asian Cup, runners-up of the 1976 AFC Asian Cup, and have taken third place of the 1984 AFC Asian Cup. Kuwait has also been to one FIFA World Cup, in 1982; they drew 1–1 with Czechoslovakia before losing to France and England, failing to advance from the first round. Kuwait is home to many football clubs including Al-Arabi, Al-Fahaheel, Al-Jahra, Al-Kuwait, Al-Naser, Al-Salmiya, Al-Shabab, Al Qadsia, Al-Yarmouk, Kazma, Khaitan, Sulaibikhat, Sahel, and Tadamon. The biggest football rivalry in Kuwait is between Al-Arabi and Al Qadsia.\n\nBasketball is one of the country's most popular sports. The Kuwait national basketball team is governed by the Kuwait Basketball Association (KBA). Kuwait made its international debut in 1959. The national team has been to the FIBA Asian Championship in basketball eleven times. The Kuwaiti Division I Basketball League is the highest professional basketball league in Kuwait. Cricket in Kuwait is governed by the Kuwait Cricket Association. Other growing sports include rugby union. Handball is widely considered to be the national icon of Kuwait, although football is more popular among the overall population.\n\nIce hockey in Kuwait is governed by the Kuwait Ice Hockey Association. Kuwait first joined the International Ice Hockey Federation in 1985, but was expelled in 1992 due to a lack of ice hockey activity. Kuwait was re-admitted into the IIHF in May 2009. In 2015, Kuwait won the IIHF Challenge Cup of Asia.\n\nKuwait's media is annually classified as \"partly free\" in the Freedom of Press survey by Freedom House. Since 2005, Kuwait has frequently earned the highest ranking of all Arab countries in the annual Press Freedom Index by Reporters Without Borders. In 2009, 2011, 2013 and 2014, Kuwait surpassed Israel as the country with the greatest press freedom in the Middle East. Kuwait is also frequently ranked as the Arab country with the greatest press freedom in Freedom House's annual Freedom of Press survey.\n\nKuwait produces more newspapers and magazines per capita than its neighbors. There are limits to Kuwait's press freedom; while criticism of the government and ruling family members is permitted, Kuwait's constitution criminalizes criticism of the Emir.\n\nThe state-owned Kuwait News Agency (KUNA) is the largest media house in the country. The Ministry of Information regulates the media industry in Kuwait.\n\nKuwait has 15 satellite television channels, of which four are controlled by the Ministry of Information. State-owned Kuwait Television (KTV) offered first colored broadcast in 1974 and operates five television channels. Government-funded Radio Kuwait also offers daily informative programming in several foreign languages including Arabic, Farsi, Urdu, and English on the AM and SW.\n\nKuwait is a constitutional emirate with a semi-democratic political system. The Emir is the head of state. The hybrid political system is divided between an elected parliament and appointed government.\n\nThe Constitution of Kuwait was promulgated in 1962. Kuwait is among the Middle East's freest countries in civil liberties and political rights. Freedom House rates the country as \"Partly Free\" in the Freedom in the World survey.\n\nThe Constitution of Kuwait is considered as a liberal constitution in the GCC. It guarantees a wide range of civil liberties and rights. In contrast to other states in the region, the political process largely respects constitutional provisions. Kuwait has a robust public sphere and active civil society with political and social organizations that are parties in all but name. Professional groups like the Chamber of Commerce maintain their autonomy from the government.\nThe National Assembly is the legislature and has oversight authority. The National Assembly consists of fifty elected members, who are chosen in elections held every four years. Since the parliament can conduct inquiries into government actions and pass motions of no confidence, checks and balances are robust in Kuwait. The parliament can be dissolved under a set of conditions based on constitutional provisions. The Constitutional Court and Emir both have the power to dissolve the parliament, although the Constitutional Court can invalidate the Emir's dissolution.\n\nExecutive power is executed by the government. The Emir appoints the prime minister, who in turn chooses the ministers comprising the government. According to the constitution, at least one minister has to be an elected MP from the parliament. The parliament is often rigorous in holding the government accountable, government ministers are frequently interpellated and forced to resign. Kuwait has more government accountability and transparency than other GCC countries.\n\nThe judiciary is nominally independent of the executive and the legislature, and the Constitutional Court is charged with ruling on the conformity of laws and decrees with the constitution. The judiciary's independence has come under question, although the Constitutional Court is widely regarded as one of the most judicially independent courts in the Arab world. The Constitutional Court has the power to dissolve the parliament and invalidate the Emir's decrees, as happened in 2013 when the dissolved 2009 parliament resumed its role.\n\nKuwaiti women outnumber men in the workforce. The political participation of Kuwaiti women has been limited, although Kuwaiti women are among the most emancipated women in the Middle East. In 2014 and 2015, Kuwait was ranked first among Arab countries in the Global Gender Gap Report. In 2013, 53% of Kuwaiti women participated in the labor force. Kuwait has higher female citizen participation in the workforce than other GCC countries.\n\nPolitical groups and parliamentary voting blocs exist, although most candidates run as independents. Once elected, many deputies form voting blocs in the National Assembly. Kuwaiti law does not recognize political parties. However, numerous political groups function as \"de facto\" political parties in elections, and there are blocs in the parliament. Major \"de facto\" political parties include the National Democratic Alliance, Popular Action Bloc, Hadas (Kuwaiti Muslim Brotherhood), National Islamic Alliance and the Justice and Peace Alliance.\n\nKuwait follows the \"civil law system\" modeled after the French legal system, Kuwait's legal system is largely secular. Sharia law governs only family law for Muslim residents, while non-Muslims in Kuwait have a secular family law. For the application of family law, there are three separate court sections: Sunni, Shia, and non-Muslim. According to the United Nations, Kuwait's legal system is a mix of English common law, French civil law, Egyptian civil law and Islamic law.\n\nThe court system in Kuwait is secular. Unlike other Arab states of the Persian Gulf, Kuwait does not have Sharia courts. Sections of the civil court system administer family law. Kuwait has the most secular commercial law in the Gulf. The parliament criminalized alcohol consumption in 1983. Kuwait’s Code of Personal Status was promulgated in 1984.\n\nHuman rights in Kuwait has been the subject of criticism, particularly regarding foreign workers' rights. Expatriates account for 70% of Kuwait's total population. The kafala system leaves foreign workers prone to exploitation. Kuwait has the most liberal labor laws in the GCC. As a result, the International Labour Organization (ILO) removed Kuwait from the list of countries violating workers rights. Male homosexuality is illegal in Kuwait and punishable by up to 6 years in prison.\n\nForeign affairs relations of Kuwait is handled at the level of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The first foreign affairs department bureau was established in 1961. Kuwait became the 111th member state of the United Nations in May 1963. It is a long-standing member of the Arab League and Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf.\n\nBefore the Gulf War, Kuwait was the only \"pro-Soviet\" state in the Persian Gulf region. Kuwait acted as a conduit for the Soviets to the other Arab states of the Persian Gulf, and Kuwait was used to demonstrate the benefits of a pro-Soviet stance. In July 1987, Kuwait refused to allow U.S. military bases in its territory. As a result of the Gulf War, Kuwait's relations with the U.S. have improved (Major non-NATO ally) and currently hosts thousands of US military personnel and contractors within active U.S. facilities. Kuwait is also a major ally of ASEAN, while enjoying good relationship with China, establishing cooperation model in numerous fields. According to Kuwaiti officials, Kuwait is the largest Arab investor in Germany, especially in the Mercedes-Benz company..\n\nThe Military of Kuwait traces its original roots to the Kuwaiti cavalrymen and infantrymen that used to protect Kuwait and its wall since the early 1900s. These cavalrymen and infantrymen formed the defense and security forces in metropolitan areas; charged with protecting outposts outside the wall of Kuwait.\n\nThe Military of Kuwait consists of several joint defense forces. The governing bodies are the Kuwait Ministry of Defense, the Kuwait Ministry of Interior, the Kuwait National Guard and the Kuwait Fire Service Directorate. The Emir of Kuwait is the commander-in-chief of all defense forces by default. Even in the most adverse of all times such as a war, even the military is not allowed to make a single move without the Emir's consent.\n\nKuwait is divided into six governorates. The governorates are further subdivided into areas.\n\n\nLocated in the north-east corner of the Arabian Peninsula, Kuwait is one of the smallest countries in the world in terms of land area. Kuwait lies between latitudes 28° and 31° N, and longitudes 46° and 49° E. The flat, sandy Arabian Desert covers most of Kuwait. Kuwait is generally low lying, with the highest point being above sea level.\n\nKuwait has nine islands, all of which, with the exception of Failaka Island, are uninhabited. With an area of , the Bubiyan is the largest island in Kuwait and is connected to the rest of the country by a bridge. 0.6% of Kuwaiti land area is considered arable with sparse vegetation found along its coastline. Kuwait City is located on Kuwait Bay, a natural deep-water harbor.\n\nKuwait's Burgan field has a total capacity of approximately of proven oil reserves. During the 1991 Kuwaiti oil fires, more than 500 oil lakes were created covering a combined surface area of about . The resulting soil contamination due to oil and soot accumulation had made eastern and south-eastern parts of Kuwait uninhabitable. Sand and oil residue had reduced large parts of the Kuwaiti desert to semi-asphalt surfaces. The oil spills during the Gulf War also drastically affected Kuwait's marine resources.\n\nThe spring season in March is warm with occasional thunderstorms. The frequent winds from the northwest are cold in winter and hot in summer. Southeasterly damp winds spring up between July and October. Hot and dry south winds prevail in spring and early summer. The shamal, a northwesterly wind common during June and July, causes dramatic sandstorms. Summers in Kuwait are some of the hottest on earth (like Ahvaz). The highest recorded temperature was , which is the highest temperature recorded in Asia. Kuwait experiences colder winters than other GCC countries because of its location in a northern position near Iraq and Iran.\n\nIn 2014 Kuwait was the third country in the world in term of CO2 per capita emissions after Qatar and Trinidad and Tobago according to the World Bank. On average, every single inhabitant released that year 25.2 metric tons of CO2 in the atmosphere. In comparison, the world average was 5.0 tons per capita the same year.\n\nAt present, there are five protected areas in Kuwait recognized by the IUCN. In response to Kuwait becoming the 169th signatory of the Ramsar Convention, Bubyan island's Mubarak al-Kabeer reserve was designated as the country's first Wetland of International Importance. The 50,948 ha reserve consists of small lagoons and shallow salt marshes and is important as a stop-over for migrating birds on two migration routes. The reserve is home to the world's largest breeding colony of crab-plover.\n\nMore than 363 species of birds were recorded in Kuwait, 18 species of which breed in the country. Kuwait is situated at the crossroads of several major bird migration routes and between two and three million birds pass each year. The marshes in northern Kuwait and Jahra have become increasingly important as a refuge for passage migrants. Kuwaiti islands are important breeding areas for four species of tern and the socotra cormorant.\n\nKuwait's marine and littoral ecosystems contain the bulk of the country's biodiversity heritage. Twenty eight species of mammal are found in Kuwait; animals such as gerboa, desert rabbits and hedgehogs are common in the desert. Large carnivores, such as the wolf, caracal and jackal, are not found. Among the endangered mammalian species are the red fox and wild cat. Causes for wildlife extinction are habitat destruction and extensive unregulated hunting. Forty reptile species have been recorded although none are endemic to Kuwait.\n\nKuwait does not have any permanent rivers. It does have some wadis, the most notable of which is Wadi Al-Batin which forms the border between Kuwait and Iraq.\n\nKuwait relies on water desalination as a primary source of fresh water for drinking and domestic purposes. There are currently more than six desalination plants. Kuwait was the first country in the world to use desalination to supply water for large-scale domestic use. The history of desalination in Kuwait dates back to 1951 when the first distillation plant was commissioned.\n\nIn 1965, the Kuwaiti government commissioned the Swedish engineering company of VBB (Sweco) to develop and implement a plan for a modern water-supply system for Kuwait City. The company built five groups of water towers, thirty-one towers total, designed by its chief architect Sune Lindström, called \"the mushroom towers\". For a sixth site, the Emir of Kuwait, Sheikh Jaber Al-Ahmed, wanted a more spectacular design. This last group, known as Kuwait Towers, consists of three towers, two of which also serve as water towers. Water from the desalination facility is pumped up to the tower. The thirty-three towers have a standard capacity of 102,000 cubic meters of water. \"The Water Towers\" (Kuwait Tower and the Kuwait Water Towers) were awarded the Aga Khan Award for Architecture (1980 Cycle).\n\nKuwait's fresh water resources are limited to groundwater, desalinated seawater, and treated wastewater effluents. There are three major municipal wastewater treatment plants. Most water demand is currently satisfied through seawater desalination plants. Sewage disposal is handled by a national sewage network that covers 98% of facilities in the country.\n\nKuwait has a petroleum-based economy, petroleum is the main export product. The Kuwaiti dinar is the highest-valued unit of currency in the world. According to the World Bank, Kuwait is the seventh richest country in the world per capita. Kuwait is the second richest GCC country per capita (after Qatar). Petroleum accounts for half of GDP and 90% of government income. Non-petroleum industries include financial services.\n\nIn the past five years, there has been a significant rise in entrepreneurship and small business start-ups in Kuwait. The informal sector is also on the rise, mainly due to the popularity of Instagram businesses.\n\nKuwait is a major source of foreign economic assistance to other states through the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, an autonomous state institution created in 1961 on the pattern of international development agencies. In 1974, the fund's lending mandate was expanded to include all developing countries in the world.\n\nIn 2018 Kuwait enacted certain measures to regulate foreign labor. Citing security concerns, workers from Georgia will be subject to heightened scrutiny when applying for entry visas, and an outright ban was being imposed on the entry of domestic workers from Guinea-Bissau and Vietnam. Workers from Bangladesh are also banned.\n\nDespite its relatively small territory, Kuwait has proven crude oil reserves of 104 billion barrels, estimated to be 10% of the world's reserves. According to the constitution, all natural resources in the country are state property. Kuwait currently pumps 2.9 million bpd and its full production capacity is a little over 3 million bpd.\n\nThe Kuwait Investment Authority (KIA) is Kuwait's sovereign wealth fund specializing in foreign investment. The KIA is the world's oldest sovereign wealth fund. Since 1953, the Kuwaiti government has directed investments into Europe, United States and Asia Pacific. , the holdings were valued at $592 billion in assets. It is the 5th largest sovereign wealth fund in the world.\n\nKuwait has a leading position in the financial industry in the GCC; the abyss that separates Kuwait from its Persian Gulf neighbors in terms of tourism, transport, and other measures of diversification is absent in the financial sector. The Emir has promoted the idea that Kuwait should focus its energies, in terms of economic development, on the financial industry.\n\nThe historical preeminence of Kuwait (among the Persian Gulf monarchies) in finance dates back to the founding of the National Bank of Kuwait in 1952. The bank was the first local publicly traded corporation in the Persian Gulf region. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, an alternative stock market, trading in shares of Persian Gulf companies, emerged in Kuwait, the Souk Al-Manakh. At its peak, its market capitalization was the third highest in the world, behind only the U.S. and Japan, and ahead of the UK and France.\n\nKuwait has a large wealth-management industry that stands out in the region. Kuwaiti investment companies administer more assets than those of any other GCC country, save the much larger Saudi Arabia. The Kuwait Financial Centre, in a rough calculation, estimated that Kuwaiti firms accounted for over one-third of the total assets under management in the GCC. The relative strength of Kuwait in the financial industry extends to its stock market. For many years, the total valuation of all companies listed on the Kuwait Stock Exchange far exceeded the value of those on any other GCC bourse, except Saudi Arabia. In 2011, financial and banking companies made up more than half of the market capitalization of the Kuwaiti bourse; among all the Persian Gulf states, the market capitalization of Kuwaiti financial-sector firms was, in total, behind only that of Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn recent years, Kuwaiti investment companies have invested large percentages of their assets abroad, and their foreign assets have become substantially larger than their domestic assets.\n\nKuwait has a state-funded healthcare system, which provides treatment without charge to Kuwaiti nationals. There are outpatient clinics in every residential area in Kuwait. A public insurance scheme exists to provide reduced cost healthcare to expatriates. Private healthcare providers also run medical facilities in the country, available to members of their insurance schemes. There are 29 public hospitals. Many new hospitals are under construction. The Sheikh Jaber Al-Ahmad Hospital is the largest hospital in the Middle East.\n\nKuwait has a growing scientific research sector. To date, Kuwait has registered 384 patents, the second highest figure in the Arab world. Kuwait produces the largest number of patents per capita in the Arab world and OIC. The government has implemented various programs to foster innovation resulting in patent rights. Between 2010 and 2016, Kuwait registered the highest growth in patents in the Arab world.\n\nKuwait has the highest literacy rate in the Arab world. The general education system consists of four levels: kindergarten (lasting for 2 years), primary (lasting for 5 years), intermediate (lasting for 4 years) and secondary (lasting for 3 years). Schooling at primary and intermediate level is compulsory for all students aged 6 – 14. All the levels of state education, including higher education, are free.\n\nThe public school system is undergoing a revamp due to a project in conjunction with the World Bank. In 2013, the government launched a pilot project in 48 schools across the state called the National Curriculum Framework. The curriculum is set to be implemented in the next two or three years.\n\nTourism accounts for 1.5 percent of the GDP. In 2016, the tourism industry generated nearly $500 million in revenue. The annual \"Hala Febrayer\" festival attracts many tourists from neighboring GCC countries, and includes a variety of events including music concerts, parades, and carnivals. The festival is a month-long commemoration of the liberation of Kuwait, and runs from 1 to 28 February. Liberation Day itself is celebrated on 26 February.\n\nThe Amiri Diwan is currently developing the new Kuwait National Cultural District (KNCD), which comprises Sheikh Abdullah Al Salem Cultural Centre, Sheikh Jaber Al Ahmad Cultural Centre, Al Shaheed Park, and Al Salam Palace. With a capital cost of more than US$1 billion, the project is one of the largest cultural investments in the world. In November 2016, the Sheikh Jaber Al Ahmad Cultural Centre opened. It is the largest cultural centre in the Middle East. The Kuwait National Cultural District is a member of the Global Cultural Districts Network.\n\nKuwait has an extensive and modern network of highways. Roadways extended , of which is paved. There are more than two million passenger cars, and 500,000 commercial taxis, buses, and trucks in use. On major highways the maximum speed is . Since there is no railway system in the country, most people travel by automobiles.\nThe country's public transportation network consists almost entirely of bus routes. The state owned Kuwait Public Transportation Company was established in 1962. It runs local bus routes across Kuwait as well as longer distance services to other Gulf states. The main private bus company is CityBus, which operates about 20 routes across the country. Another private bus company, Kuwait Gulf Link Public Transport Services, was started in 2006. It runs local bus routes across Kuwait and longer distance services to neighbouring Arab countries.\n\nThere are two airports in Kuwait. Kuwait International Airport serves as the principal hub for international air travel. State-owned Kuwait Airways is the largest airline in the country. A portion of the airport complex is designated as Al Mubarak Air Base, which contains the headquarters of the Kuwait Air Force, as well as the Kuwait Air Force Museum. In 2004, the first private airline of Kuwait, Jazeera Airways, was launched. In 2005, the second private airline, Wataniya Airways was founded.\n\nKuwait has one of the largest shipping industries in the region. The Kuwait Ports Public Authority manages and operates ports across Kuwait. The country’s principal commercial seaports are Shuwaikh and Shuaiba, which handled combined cargo of 753,334 TEU in 2006. Mina Al-Ahmadi, the largest port in the country, handles most of Kuwait's oil exports. Construction of another major port located in Bubiyan island started in 2007. The port is expected to handle 1.3 million TEU when operations start.\n\nKuwait's 2014 population was 4.1 million people, of which 1.2 million were Kuwaitis, 1.1 million are Arab, 1.4 million Asian expatriates, and 76,698 Africans.\n\nExpatriates in Kuwait account for around 70% of Kuwait's total population. 60% of Kuwait's total population are Arabs (including Arab expats). Indians and Egyptians are the largest expat communities respectively.\n\nKuwaiti society is diverse and tolerant. Most Kuwaiti citizens are Muslim; it is estimated that 60%-65% are Sunni and 35%-40% are Shias. Most Shia Kuwaiti citizens are of Persian ancestry. The country includes a native Christian community, estimated to be composed of between 259 and 400 Christian Kuwaiti citizens. Kuwait is the only GCC country besides Bahrain to have a local Christian population who hold citizenship. There is also a small number of Bahá'í Kuwaiti citizens. Kuwait also has a large community of expatriate Christians, Hindus, Buddhists, and Sikhs.\n\nKuwait's official language is Modern Standard Arabic, but its everyday usage is limited to journalism and education. Kuwaiti Arabic is the variant of Arabic used in everyday life. English is widely understood and often used as a business language. Beside English, French is taught as a third language for the students of the humanities at schools, but for two years only. Kuwaiti Arabic is a variant of Gulf Arabic, sharing similarities with the dialects of neighboring coastal areas in Eastern Arabia. Due to immigration during its early history as well as trade, Kuwaiti Arabic borrowed a lot of words from Persian, Indian languages, Turkish, English and Italian. \n\nDue to historical immigration, Kuwaiti Persian is used among Ajam Kuwaitis. The Iranian sub-dialects of Larestani, Khonji, Bastaki and Gerashi also influenced the vocabulary of Kuwaiti Arabic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59157523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59157523", "title": "Ladies' Land League", "text": "Ladies' Land League\n\nThe Ladies' Land League (founded 31 January 1881; dissolved 10 August 1882) was an auxiliary of the Irish National Land League and took over the functions of that organization when its leadership was imprisoned.\n\nThe Irish National Land League was founded by Michael Davitt in 1879. Its aims were a) \"to bring about a reduction of rack rents\" and b) \"to facilitate the obtaining of the ownership of the soil by the occupiers\". Charles Stewart Parnell, the dominant political figure of the day, was chosen as President. By late 1880 Davitt felt sure that the leadership of the League would soon be imprisoned. He suggested that a Ladies' Land League be set up to carry on the work after their imprisonment. A few months previously a Ladies' Land League Committee had been set up in New York by Fanny Parnell, Charles' sister, to raise funds for the Irish National Land League. Parnell was strongly opposed but Davitt and the Treasurer, Patrick Egan, persuaded the Central Committee. Davitt suggested Anna Parnell, another sister, to head it and on 31 January 1881 at 39, Sackville Street, the Ladies' Land League was formally established.\n\nThe organisation grew rapidly. By May 1881 there were 321 branches in Ireland, with branches also in Britain, the U.S.A., Canada, Australia and New Zealand.\n\nAt Central Office a detailed register, referred to by the women as the \"Book of Kells\" was kept of information sent in weekly by the local branches. This detailed every estate, the name of the landlord or agent, number of tenants, rent paid, valuation, number of evictions that had taken place and the number pending .\nWhen notice of a pending eviction was received, members travelled to the area bringing money for assistance. If the tenants wanted to bring a law case, the league instructed a solicitor and paid his costs. They also erected wooden huts, if they could, for the evicted tenants, though the police often stopped this.\nIn October the Land League leaders were jailed and the League banned. From jail they issued a \"No Rent \" manifesto. From this point on the women were responsible for continuing the work.\n\nOn Sunday 12 March 1881, just more than a month after the formation of the league, a pastoral letter of Archbishop Edward McCabe of Dublin was read out in all the churches of the diocese. It condemned the league in the strongest terms, deploring that \"our Catholic daughters, be they matrons or virgins, are called forth, under the flimsy pretext of charity, to take their stand in the noisy street of life.\"\nMcCabe was not representative of all bishops, particularly Archbishop Thomas Croke of Cashel, a strong supporter of the original league. Croke published a letter in the Freeman's Journal challenging the \"monstrous imputations\" in McCabe's pastoral. It was quite a church scandal for one bishop to attack the pastoral of another. McCabe complained to the Vatican, backing his complaints with a thick file of Irish newspaper clippings about events around the country. Bishop Moran was charged with sorting out the quarrel and managed to elicit a grudging apology to McCabe from Croke for being \"technically\" wrong in his actions.\n\nThe dissension was revived somewhat in the summer of 1882. An \"Address by the Catholic Bishops of Ireland to their Flocks on the State of the Country\" was to be issued on 10 June. McCabe (now Cardinal) and another bishop tried to have a public condemnation of the Ladies' Land League inserted into the Address. The other bishops resisted on the basis that it would probably do more harm than good. They contented themselves with expressing their hope that \"the women of Ireland will continue to be the glory of their sex and the noble angels of stainless modesty\". When newspapers interpreted this as a condemnation of the league, Croke wrote again to the Freeman's Journal to deny that this had been the intention of the bishops. Again complaints about him were made to the Vatican and again he had to account for himself to church authorities.\n\nThe order banning the League made no direct reference to the Ladies' Land League but many police officers tried to insist that the ban included the women's group. Eventually, on 16 December, Inspector General Hillier of the R.I.C. ordered the police to stop the women's meetings.. Anna Parnell defiantly issued a notice to all Ladies' Land League branches in the country, widely publicised in the press, calling on them all to hold a meeting at 1.30 p.m. on 1 January 1882.\n\nOn 3 May 1882 Parnell and other leaders were released from jail after agreeing the Kilmainham Treaty.This included some improvement in the 1881 Land Act. He now wished to turn his attention more to the Home Rule question. The Irish National Land League was replaced by the Irish National League. Parnell also wanted to see an end to the Ladies' Land League. There had been increased violence when he was in jail and he saw Anna as too radical. The organization had an overdraft of £5,000 which Parnell agreed to clear from central funds only if the organization was dissolved. \nAt a meeting of the Central Committee on 10 August 1882 The Ladies' Land League voted to dissolve itself. Anna herself was not in attendance at that meeting having suffered a physical and mental collapse after the sudden death of Fanny the previous month at the age of 33.\n\nThe records of the Ladies' Land League were lost to history in 1916.\nJennie Wyse Power who had served on the Central Committte had kept them in her house in Henry Street. When fire spread from Sackville Street during the 1916 Rising, her house was destroyed and the records perished in the blaze. \n"}
{"id": "55473742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55473742", "title": "Leonard Montefiore", "text": "Leonard Montefiore\n\nLeonard Montefiore (1853, Kensington, London – 1879) was an author and philanthropist. He was a grandnephew of Moses Montefiore and a nephew of Francis Goldsmid.\n\nIn October 1870 Montefiore entered University College London where he attended lectures for the next two years. It was at this time that he formed a friendship with Henry Birchenough that was described in his \"Essays and Letters\" as \"the greatest friendship of his life\" Montefiore attended Balliol College, Oxford where his posthumous memoire reports that he was a devotee of Ruskin. Whilst at Balliol he became a friend of Oscar Wilde who, after Montefiore's death allegedly proposed to his sister Charlotte. . He was also influenced by Arnold Toynbee and Benjamin Jowett. \n\nMontefiore was Chief assistant to reformer Samuel Barnett in his work regarding the extension of Oxford University to London and was secretary of the Tower Hamlets branch of the Society for the extension of University Teaching. Montefiore was the Secretary of the Jewish Schools in Red Lion Square from April 1877 until his departure for America and became a member of the Jewish Board of Guardians in 1878.\n\nThe Jewish Encyclopedia says \"Montefiore was associated with many philanthropic movements, especially with the movement for women's emancipation.\"\n\nMontefiore died at Newport, Rhode Island, aged 27. According to the Women's rights activist Emily Faithfull in her book \"Three Visits to America\" published in 1884 Montefiore died \"While he was visiting the United States, in order to see for himself what could be learned from the political and social condition of the people, must ever be deplored. The world can ill afford to lose men of such deep thought and energetic action.\"\n\nMontefiore's posthumously published \"Essays and Letters\" are divided into three sections with a foreword by Lord Milner who was a mutual friend of Henry Birchenough and Montefiore and had learnt to know the latter at Balliol College where both were influenced by Toynbee.\n\nThe first section of \"Essays and Letters\" deals with primarily German politics including Alsace Lorraine since 1871, the second section covers German literature, including Heine, Goethe, Heinrich von Treitschke, Heinrich Friedrich Karl vom und zum Stein and Joseph Görres. The third section is on social and miscellaneous issues, and includes articles on the Oneida community, working women, the position of women in the labour market and the Art Museum in Berlin. \nA memorial fountain in memory of Montefiore exists in Stepney Green, East London.\n\nEssays and Letters by Leonard A. Montefiore, in Memoriam, Privately Printed. London 1881.\n"}
{"id": "37254460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37254460", "title": "Lesbian Nation", "text": "Lesbian Nation\n\nLesbian Nation: The Feminist Solution is a 1973 book by the radical lesbian feminist author and cultural critic Jill Johnston. The book was originally published as a series of essays featured in \"The Village Voice\" from 1969 to 1972.\n\nIn the book Johnston outlines her vision of radical lesbian feminism. She argues in favor of lesbian separatism, writing that women should make a total break from men and male-dominated capitalist institutions. Johnston also wrote that female heterosexuality was a form of collaboration with patriarchy. Writing in the \"Gay & Lesbian Review\" in 2007, Johnston summarized her views:\n\nBecki L. Ross wrote the book \"The House That Jill Built: A Lesbian Nation in Formation\", which analyzes the history of the lesbian feminist movement.\n"}
{"id": "6804234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6804234", "title": "List of medieval great powers", "text": "List of medieval great powers\n\nThis is a list of great powers during the medieval period. The term \"great power\" has only been used in historiography and political science since the Congress of Vienna in 1815. \nLord Castlereagh, the British Foreign Secretary, first used the term in its diplomatic context in 1814. Use of the term in medieval historiography is therefore idiosyncratic to each author. In historiography of the pre-modern period, it is more typical to talk of empires (itself a poorly-defined term, see list of empires).\n\nThe Middle Ages proper begin with the collapse of the remnants of Late Antiquity in the 7th century due to the Islamic conquests.\nThe Old World is largely dominated by Muslim caliphates during the mid-7th to 10th centuries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52515557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52515557", "title": "Loubna Mrie", "text": "Loubna Mrie\n\nLoubna Mrie (born 1991) is a Syrian civil rights activist.\n\nMrie comes from an Alawite family from a village near Latakia. Her father is a high official in the Syrian Air Force Intelligence. Despite her family ties, she is one of a few Alawites to join the fight against the Assad regime and has been branded a traitor by her father.\n\nAs rioting broke out in the initial stages of the Syrian Civil War, Loubna attended Latakia University but moved to Damascus in 2012 as Latakia was deemed to be unsafe for activists. This was due to Assad troops opening fire on civilian protestors. She later joined the Free Syrian Army (FSA) where she helped with the transport of food and medical aid, then with the smuggling of ammunition. She promoted the aims of the revolution in the Alawitian community and spoke with the victims of government-run troops. After her father issued a warrant for her arrest, she fled in August 2012 to Turkey.\n\nOn August 11, 2012, her mother was abducted, according to her father, who subsequently broke off all contact with her. Loubna then received information from a friend with details about the death of her mother. It is said that her father killed her mother. In an interview with \"The Guardian,\" she talked about her father stating that \"he wished he could do the same to me.\"\n\nShe later became a photojournalist with Reuters based in Aleppo where she covered the conflict then moved to New York where she is a researcher and commentator on Syrian and Middle Eastern affairs. She has been published in \"The Washington Post\" and \"The New Republic\", among other publications.\n"}
{"id": "29449447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29449447", "title": "Ministry of Economic Development (Azerbaijan)", "text": "Ministry of Economic Development (Azerbaijan)\n\nThe Ministry of Economic Development of Azerbaijan Republic () is a governmental agency within the Cabinet of Azerbaijan in charge of economic development, state investments, economic relations, foreign investments, sustainable development and business promotion activities in Azerbaijan. The ministry is headed by Shahin Mustafayev.\n\nThe Ministry of Economic Development was established on April 30, 2001 as per Presidential Decree of President Heydar Aliyev No. 475 in accordance with structural reforms within the Azerbaijani government. According to the decree, \"State Property Committee\", \"Ministry of Economy\", \"Ministry of Trade\", \"State Committee for Antimonopoly Policy and Entrepreneurial Assistance\" and \"Foreign Investments Agency\" were abolished and replaced by one centralized Ministry of Economic Development.\n\nThe ministry is headed by the minister with two deputy ministers and head of administration. Main functions of the ministry are development and preparation of economic policies and forecasts of Azerbaijan Republic, development of individual segments of economic markets, fostering and maintaining foreign economic and trade relations, conducting investment operations, attracting foreign direct investment to the country, domestic trade development, provision of state assistance to entrepreneurs, encouragement of competition and regulation of laws on economic activity in the country. \n\n\"State Service for Antimonopoly Policy and Consumers' Rights Protection\", \"National Fund for Entrepreneurial Assistance\", \"Scientific Research Institute for Economic Reforms\", \"Baku Business Education Center\" are state agencies within the ministry. The ministry has regional chapters in Absheron, Aran, Mountainous Shirvan, Quba-Khachmaz, Ganja-Qazakh, Lankaran, Shaki-Zaqatala, Upper Karabakh. The Ministry of Economic Development of Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic exclave subordinates to the Ministry of Economic Development.\n\nThere is also National Fund for Entrepreneurship Support under the Ministry (executive director is Shirzad Abdullayev).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26697447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26697447", "title": "Ministry of Economy and Infrastructure (Moldova)", "text": "Ministry of Economy and Infrastructure (Moldova)\n\nThe Ministry of Economy and Infrastructure of Moldova () is one of the nine ministries of the Government of Moldova.\n\nThe current minister is Octavian Calmîc.\n\nMinistry of Economy of Moldova was founded on 1 June 1990, as Ministry of National Economy of SSR Moldova, while Moldova was part of Soviet Union. Over years, it was a few times restructured and renamed, as follows:\n\nIn 2017 as part of the government refom in Moldova, the Ministry of Economy was renamed to Ministry of Economy and Infrastructure, absorbing the Ministry of Transport and Roads Infrastructure, and the Ministry of Informational Technologies and Communications, becoming their legal successor. Also this ministry took the domain of constructions from the former Minister of Construction and Regional Development.\n\n"}
{"id": "36506708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36506708", "title": "Mountain Village Operation Unit", "text": "Mountain Village Operation Unit\n\nThe was an underground organization of the early 1950s under the direction of the Interim Central Directorate of the Japanese Communist Party, an informal group created by the party’s majority Shokanha faction, which sought to foment an armed uprising against the Japanese government and US occupational authorities. The Mountain Village Operation Unit emulated Mao Zedong’s strategy of forming a base of operations in rural villages, but it achieved no successes.\nIn November 1949 China’s Liu Shaoqi urged spreading China’s methods of armed struggle across Asia including in Japan. He proposed this on the basis of his talks with Joseph Stalin.\n\nOn 6 June 1950 Douglas MacArthur, the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, ordered a purge of 24 members of JCP’s Central Committee and forbade them from engaging in any political activities. General Secretary Kyuichi Tokuda and his allies saw this repression as a perfect opportunity to take personal control of the party and, through an informal process that did not involve convening the Central Committee or the Politburo, he named the Interim Central Directorate. Tokuda excluded seven Central Committee members, including Kenji Miyamoto, who held dissenting points of view, and went underground.\n\nFollowing the red purge, Tokuda and his group went into exile in China and on 23 February 1951, at the JCP’s 4th National Conference, they decided on a policy of armed resistance against the American occupation of Japan, issuing orders to form a “liberated zone” in the rural villages across the country, particularly among peasants in mountain villages, just like the tactics employed by the Chinese Communist Party in the Second Sino-Japanese War. At the 5th National Conference of October 16 a new manifesto-like document was adopted called “Present Demands of the Japanese Communist Party” which included clauses on waging guerrilla war in the villages. Then clandestine organizations were created including the Chukaku Jieitai, for weapons' procurement and training, the Dokuritsu Yugekitai, for offensive guerrilla operations, and the Mountain Village Operation Unit.\n\nThe armed struggle was activated throughout the country, including terrorist attacks on police officers, arson against police boxes and bombing trains. Then in July 1952 the Subversive Activities Prevention Law was enacted and enforced to clamp down on the JCP’s attacks. Direct attacks with Molotov cocktails, the preferred weapon of the insurgents, abated from about the summer of 1952 but the JCP’s militant policy did not change and operations in the countryside were continued.\n\nThese campaign tactics also drew the ire of popular opinion and they suffered a setback in the elections of October 1952 in which all their candidates were defeated. On 1 January 1955 the Japanese Communist Party engaged in self-criticism, labeling the insurgency “adventurism of the extreme left”, and at the 6th National Conference of 29 July 1955 the policy of armed struggle was renounced. After the 6th National Conference the JCP adopted a policy of not excluding any party members who, though they had made mistakes, recognized the errors of the armed struggle and party split and intended sincerely to make effort in supporting the new party line. People who didn’t accept this shift by the party to peaceful accommodation formed the nucleus of a variety of Japanese new left movements.\n\nCurrently, the Japanese Communist Party’s official evaluation is that “The policy of the 5th National Conference was not officially adopted by the party but rather was born from the breakup and subsequent takeover of the party apparatus by Tokuda’s Shokanha faction and the imposition of armed struggle on us by the Soviet Union and China. The division of the party and the extreme-left adventurism orchestrated by the Shokanha were a serious mistake.”\n\n“How to Raise Flower Bulbs” was the secret publication setting out concepts relating to the party’s military policy such as construction and use of Molotov cocktails. It was actually an official bulletin called “Internal and External Critiques”, but took the title of “How to Raise Flower Bulbs” in order to disguise that. It was published several times through mimeograph.\nThe policies of the Mountain Village Operation Unit were out of touch with the real situation in the countryside and they were not supported at all by the locals. The exception was the travelling clinics operated by deployed medical teams who were greeted warmly in many of the villages they visited without local doctors. However, their arts and culture-based campaign, including such thing as kamishibai attacking “feudalistic” landlords, was not accepted by locals and their newspapers and propaganda leaflets were quickly handed over to the police. Without achieving any of its aims, the operations of the Mountain Village Operation Unit were extinguished by a police crackdown.\n\nIn deference to the policy of the JCP, there were also students who had quit their studies and joined the Mountain Village Operation Unit. It is said that these participants were in deep despair at the change in policy of the 6th National Conference. Some of the members who escaped exposure in the police crackdown holed up in the mountains and aimed to support themselves but, being neglected and unsupplied by the JCP, they naturally dissolved. The recollections of participants are published in certain new left bulletins, and the Mountain Village Operation Unit at the time of the 6th National Conference is the backdrop for Sho Shibata’s Akutagawa Award-winning 1964 novel \"Saredo Warera ga Hibi\" (\"Those Were the Days, However...\").\n\nOn the other hand, it is thought that there were differences in the directive and goals of “Y Organization” on the one hand, the JCP’s Military Affairs Committee including the Chukaku Jieitai and Dokuritsu Yugekitai which were purely in the armed struggle, and the Mountain Village Operation Unit on the other hand where armed struggle coexisted with appeals to the masses. There were also people among the members of Mountain Village Operation Unit who thought that the policy of armed struggle was an absurd idea and remained active in the Unit without supporting the policy. Participation in the Unit was by the appointment of the JCP Directorate which supported Kyuichi Tokuda’s Shokanha faction, and there are some who testified that service was assigned as a punishment to students who had belonged to the former faction of Kenji Miyamoto.\n"}
{"id": "46580038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46580038", "title": "Nagode Trial", "text": "Nagode Trial\n\nThe Nagode Trial () was a political show trial in Slovenia in 1947.\n\nThe trial was carried out by the Slovene authorities under the leadership of the Communist Party of Slovenia against non-communist politicians that wished to participate in politics in Slovenia after 1945. In May 1947 the Slovenian secret police (UDBA) arrested 32 highly educated intellectuals. These included some former members of the Communist Party of Slovenia, but the majority were liberal democrats that were inclined toward western-style parliamentary democracy. Those arrested included Črtomir Nagode, Ljubo Sirc, Leon Kavčnik, Boris Furlan, Zoran Hribar, Angela Vode, Metod Kumelj, Pavla Hočevar, Svatopluk Zupan, Bogdan Stare, Metod Pirc, Vid Lajovic, Franjo Sirc, and Elizabeta Hribar, and during the trial Franc Snoj was added to the group. They were interrogated and tortured for two months in Ljubljana's prisons. The Politburo of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Slovenia used the Slovene media to characterize those arrested as \"a handful of spies, class enemies, foreign paid agents, who have no political program and whose work, with no political value at all, is to damage the people's authority.\" The trial against the accused began on July 29, and the proceedings were broadcast to the public via special loudspeakers on the streets. The public prosecutor in the trial was Viktor Avbelj, later a president of the presidency of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, and Drago Supančič was used as an incriminating witness. The trial became known as the \"Nagode trial\" after the principal defendant. After 13 days of hearings, on August 12 three of the defendants (Nagode, Boris Furlan, and Ljubo Sirc) were sentenced to be shot, and the remainder were sentenced to lengthy prison sentences with forced labor, deprivation of all civil rights, and confiscation of their property. Nagode was shot on September 12, 1947 and the death sentences against Furlan and Sirc were commuted to 20 years in prison. Two of those sentenced committed suicide.\n\nIn 1991 the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia overturned the conviction against Nagode and his fourteen co-defendants on the grounds that it was based on false testimony and that it had been a corrupt trial against imaginary Western spies.\n\n"}
{"id": "4436871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4436871", "title": "National delimitation in the Soviet Union", "text": "National delimitation in the Soviet Union\n\nNational delimitation in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was the process of creating well-defined national territorial units (Soviet socialist republics – SSR, autonomous Soviet socialist republics – ASSR, autonomous oblasts (provinces), raions (districts) and \"okrugs\") from the ethnic diversity of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) and its subregions. The Russian term for this Soviet state policy is \"razmezhevanie\" (, \"natsionalno-territorialnoye razmezhevaniye\"), which is variously translated in English-language literature as national-territorial delimitation, demarcation, or partition. National delimitation is part of a broader process of changes in administrative-territorial division, which also changes the boundaries of territorial units, but is not necessarily linked to national or ethnic considerations. National delimitation in the USSR is distinct from nation-building (), which typically refers to the policies and actions implemented by the government of a national territorial unit (a nation state) after delimitation. In most cases national delimitation in the USSR was followed by \"korenizatsiya\".\n\nPre-1917 Russia was an imperial state, not a nation. In the 1905 Duma elections the nationalist parties received only 9 percent of all votes. The many non-Russian ethnic groups that inhabited the Russian Empire were classified as \"inorodtsy\", or aliens. After the February Revolution, attitudes in regards to this topic began to change. For instance, in early 1917, a Socialist Revolutionary publication called Delo Naroda, No. 5 called for Russia to be transformed into a federal state along the lines of the United States of America. Specifically, separate constituent units inside of this federal state would be created for the various regions and ethnic groups of Russia (such as Little Russia, Georgia, Siberia, and Turkestan).\n\nThe Soviet Russia that took over from the Russian Empire in 1917 was not a nation-state, nor was the Soviet leadership committed to turning their country into such a state. In the early Soviet period, even voluntary assimilation was actively discouraged, and the promotion of the national self-consciousness of the non-Russian populations was attempted. Each officially recognized ethnic minority, however small, was granted its own national territory where it enjoyed a certain degree of autonomy, national schools, and national elites. A written national language (if it had been lacking), national language planning, native-language press, and books written in the native language came with the national territory.\nThe attitudes towards many ethnic minorities changed dramatically in the 1930s–1940s under the leadership of Joseph Stalin (despite his own Georgian ethnic roots) with the advent of a repressive policy featuring abolition of the national institutions, ethnic deportations, national terror, and Russification (mostly towards those with cross-border ethnic ties to foreign nation-states in the 1930s or compromised in the view of Stalin during the Great Patriotic War in the 1940s), although nation-building often continued simultaneously for others. \n\nAfter the establishment of the Soviet Union within the boundaries of the former Russian Empire, the Bolshevik government began the process of national delimitation and nation building, which lasted through the 1920s and most of the 1930s. The project attempted to build nations out of the numerous ethnic groups in the Soviet Union. Defining a nation or politically conscious ethnic group was in itself a politically charged issue in the Soviet Union. In 1913, Stalin, in his work \"Marxism and the National Question\", which subsequently became the cornerstone of the Soviet policy towards nationalities, defined a nation as \"a historically constituted, stable community of people, formed on the basis of a common language, territory, economic life, and psychological makeup manifested in a common culture\". Many of the subject nationalities or communities in the Russian Empire did not fully meet these criteria. Not only cultural, linguistic, religious and tribal diversities made the process difficult but also the lack of a political consciousness of ethnicity among the people was a major obstacle to this process. Still, the process relied on the \"Declaration of the Rights of the Peoples of Russia\", adopted by the Bolshevik government on 15 November 1917, immediately after the October Revolution, which recognized equality and sovereignty of all the peoples of Russia; their right for free self-determination, up to and including secession and creation of an independent state; freedom of religion; and free development of national minorities and ethnic groups on the territory of Russia. \n\nThe Soviet Union (or more formally USSR – the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) was established in 1922 as a federation of nationalities, which eventually came to encompass 15 major national territories, each organized as a Union-level republic (Soviet Socialist Republic or SSR). All 15 national republics, created between 1917 and 1940, had constitutionally equal rights and equal standing in the formal structure of state power. The largest of the 15 republics – Russia – was ethnically the most diverse and from the very beginning it was constituted as the RSFSR – the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, a federation within a federation. The Russian SFSR was divided in the early 1920s into some 30 autonomous ethnic territories (Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republics – ASSR and autonomous oblasts – AO), many of which exist to this day as ethnic republics within the Russian Federation. There was also a very large number of lower-level ethnic territories, such as national districts and national village soviets. The exact number of ASSR and AO varied over the years as new entities were created while old entities switched from one form to another, transformed into Union-level republics (e.g., Kazakh and Kyrgyz SSR created in 1936, Moldovan SSR created in 1940), or were absorbed into larger territories (e.g., Crimean ASSR absorbed into the RSFSR in 1945 and Volga German ASSR absorbed into RSFSR in 1941).\n\nThe first population census of the USSR in 1926 listed 176 distinct nationalities. Eliminating excessive detail (e.g., four ethnic groups for Jews and five ethnic groups for Georgians) and omitting very small ethnic groups, the list was condensed into 69 nationalities. These 69 nationalities lived in 45 nationally delimited territories, including 16 Union-level republics (SSR) for the major nationalities, 23 autonomous regions (18 ASSR and 5 autonomous oblasts) for other nationalities within the Russian SFSR, and 6 autonomous regions within other Union-level republics (one in Uzbek SSR, one in Azerbaijan SSR, one in Tajik SSR, and three in Georgian SSR). \n\nHigher-level autonomous national territories in the Soviet Union\nMap showing the ethnic republics of the Russian Federation (2008) that succeeded the national territories of Russian SFSR (pre-1990)\n\nDespite the general policy of granting national territories to all ethnic groups, several nationalities remained without their own territories in the 1920s and the 1930s. These included Poles, Bulgarians, Greeks, Hungarians, Gypsies, Uigurs, Koreans, and Gagauz (today the Gagauz live in a compact area in the south of Moldova, where they enjoy a measure of autonomy). The Volga Germans lost their national territory with the outbreak of World War II in 1941. The peoples of the North had neither autonomous republics nor autonomous oblasts, but since the 1930s they have been organized in 10 national \"okrugs\", such as the Chukotka Autonomous Okrug, the Koryak Autonomous Okrug, the Nenets Autonomous Okrug, and others.\n\nBesides national republics, oblasts, and okrugs, several hundred national districts (with populations between 10,000 and 50,000) and several thousand national townships (population 500 to 5,000) were established. In some cases this policy required voluntary or forced resettlement in both directions to create a compact population. Ethnic left immigration and the return of non-Russian émigrés to the Soviet Union during the New Economic Policy, albeit perceived as an easy cover for espionage, were not discouraged and proceeded quite actively, contributing to nation-building.\n\nSoviet fear of foreign influence gained momentum from sporadic ethnic guerilla uprisings along the entire Soviet frontier throughout the 1920s. The Soviet government was particularly concerned about the loyalty of the Finnish, Polish, and German populations. However, in July 1925 the Soviet authorities felt secure enough and in order to project Soviet influence outwards, exploiting cross-border ethnic ties, granted national minorities in the border regions more privileges and national rights than those in the central regions. This policy was implemented especially successfully in the Ukrainian SSR, which at first indeed succeeded in attracting the population of Polish Kresy. However, some Ukrainian communists claimed neighboring regions even from the Russian SFSR.\n\nRussia had conquered Central Asia in the 19th century by annexing the formerly independent Khanates of Kokand and Khiva and the Emirate of Bukhara. After the Communists took power in 1917 and created the Soviet Union it was decided to divide Central Asia into ethnically-based republics in a process known as National Territorial Delimitation (or NTD). This was in line with Communist theory that nationalism was a necessary step on the path towards an eventually communist society, and Joseph Stalin’s definition of a nation as being \"“a historically constituted, stable community of people, formed on the basis of a common language, territory, economic life, and psychological make-up manifested in a common culture”\".\n\nThe NTD is commonly portrayed as being nothing more than a cynical exercise in divide and rule, a deliberately Machiavellian attempt by Stalin to maintain Soviet hegemony over the region by artificially dividing its inhabitants into separate nations and with borders deliberately drawn so as to leave minorities within each state. Though indeed Russia was concerned at the possible threat of pan-Turkic nationalism , as expressed for example with the Basmachi movement of the 1920s, closer analysis informed by the primary sources paints a much more nuanced picture than is commonly presented.\n\nThe Soviets aimed to create ethnically homogenous republics, however many areas were ethnically-mixed (e.g. specially the Ferghana Valley) and often proved difficult to assign a ‘correct’ ethnic label to some peoples (e.g. the mixed Tajik-Uzbek Sart, or the various Turkmen/Uzbek tribes along the Amu Darya). Local national elites often strongly argued (and in many cases overstated) their case and the Russians were often forced to adjudicate between them, further hindered by a lack of expert knowledge and the paucity of accurate or up-to-date ethnographic data on the region. Furthermore NTD also aimed to create ‘viable’ entities, with economic geographical, agricultural and infrastructural matters also to be taken into account and frequently trumping those of ethnicity. The attempt to balance these contradictory aims within an overall nationalist framework proved exceedingly difficult and often impossible, resulting in the drawing of often tortuously convoluted borders, multiple enclaves and the unavoidable creation of large minorities who ended up living in the ‘wrong’ republic. Additionally the Soviets never intended for these borders to become international frontiers.\n\nNTD of the area along ethnic lines had been proposed as early as 1920. At this time Central Asia consisted of two Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republics (ASSRs) within the Russian SFSR: the Turkestan ASSR, created in April 1918 and covering large parts of what are now southern Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, as well as Turkmenistan), and the Kirghiz Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic (Kirghiz ASSR, Kirgizistan ASSR on the map), which was created on 26 August 1920 in the territory roughly coinciding with the northern part of today's Kazakhstan (at this time Kazakhs were referred to as ‘Kyrgyz’ and what are now the Kyrgyz wre deemed a sub-group of the Kazakhs and referred to as ‘Kara-Kyrgyz’ i.e. ‘mountain-Kyrgyz’). There were also the two separate successor ‘republics’ of the Emirate of Bukhara and the Khanate of Khiva, which were transformed into the Bukhara and Khorezm People's Soviet Republics following the takeover by the Red Army in 1920.\n\nOn 25 February 1924 the Politburo and Central Committee of the Soviet Union announced that it would proceed with NTD in Central Asia. The process was to be overseen by a Special Committee of the Central Asian Bureau, with three sub-committees for each of what were deemed to be the main nationalities of the region (Kazakhs, Turkmen and Uzbeks), with work then exceedingly rapidly. There were initial plans to possibly keep the Khorezm and Bukhara PSRs, it was eventually decided to partition them in April 1924, over the often vocal opposition of their Communist Parties (the Khorezm CP in particular were reluctant to destroy their PSR and had to be strong-armed into voting for their own dissolution in July of that year).\n\nThe Turkestan ASSR was officially partitioned into two Soviet Socialist Republics (SSR), the Turkmen SSR and the Uzbek SSR. The Turkmen SSR roughly matched the borders of today's Turkmenistan and it was created as a home for the Turkmens of Soviet Central Asia. The Bukhara and Khorezm People's Soviet Republics were largely absorbed into the Uzbek SSR, which also included other territories inhabited by Uzbeks as well as those inhabited by ethnic Tajiks. At the same time, the Tajik ASSR was created within the Uzbek SSR for the Tajik ethnic population and, in May 1929, it was separated from Uzbek SSR and upgraded to the status of a full Soviet Socialist Republic (the Tajik SSR). The Kirghiz SSR (today's Kyrgyzstan) was created only in 1936; between 1929 and 1936 it existed as the Kara-Kirghiz Autonomous Oblast (province) within the Russian SFSR. The Kazakh SSR was also created at that time (5 December 1936), thus completing the process of national delimitation of Soviet Central Asia into five Soviet Socialist Republics that in 1991 would become five independent states.\n\n\"For a more detailed look at the creation of specific boundaries, see individual pages e.g. Tajikistan-Uzbekistan border, Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan border etc.\"\n\nIn the 1920s and the 1930s, the policy of national delimitation, which assigned national territories to ethnic groups and nationalities, was followed by nation-building, attempting to create a full range of national institutions within each national territory. Each officially recognized ethnic minority, however small, was granted its own national territory where it enjoyed a certain degree of autonomy, in addition to national elites. A written national language was developed (if it had been lacking), national language planning was implemented, native teachers were trained, and national schools were established. This was always accompanied by native-language press and books written in the native language. National elites were encouraged to develop and take over the leading administrative and Party positions, sometimes in proportions exceeding the proportion of the native population.\n\nWith the grain requisition crises, famines; troubled economic conditions; international destabilization and the reversal of the immigration flow in the early 1930s, the Soviet Union became increasingly worried about the possible disloyalty of diaspora ethnic groups with cross-border ties (especially Finns, Germans and Poles), residing along its western borders. This eventually led to the start of Stalin's repressive policy towards them.\n\nEach adult citizen's ethnicity () was necessarily recorded in his passport after the introduction of the passport system in the Soviet Union in 1932 and was determined by his choice between his parents' ethnicities (a practice that did not exist in Russian Empire and is abolished in today's Russia).\n\nThe Bolsheviks’ plan was to identify the total sum of all national, cultural, linguistic, and territorial diversities under their rule and establish scientific criteria to identify which groups of people were entitled to the description of 'nation'. This task relied on the existing work of tsarist-era ethnographers and statisticians, as well as new research conducted under Soviet auspices. Because most people did not know what is meant by a nation, some of them simply gave names when asked about ethnic group. Many groups were thought to be biologically similar, but culturally distinct. In Central Asia, many identified their \"nation\" as \"Muslim.\" In other cases, geography made the difference, or even whether one lived in a town versus the countryside. Principally, however, dialects or languages formed the basis for distinguishing between various nations. The results were often contradictory and confusing. More than 150 nations were counted in Central Asia alone. Some were quickly subordinated to others, with communities which had hitherto been counted as \"nations\" now deemed to be simply tribes. As a result, the number of nations shrunk over the decades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53563941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53563941", "title": "Nevertheless, she persisted", "text": "Nevertheless, she persisted\n\n\"Nevertheless, she persisted\" is an expression adopted by the feminist movement, especially in the United States. It became popular in 2017 after the United States Senate voted to silence Senator Elizabeth Warren's objections to confirmation of Senator Jeff Sessions as U.S. Attorney General. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell uttered this sentence during comments following the vote in an effort to defend the Senate's actions and blame Warren.\n\nThe expression went viral as feminists posted it with hashtag references to other women. Conservative critics objected that comparisons between Warren and other female political activists were inappropriate. Its meaning expanded to refer to women's persistence in breaking barriers, despite being silenced or ignored.\n\nOn February 7, 2017, the U.S. Senate debated confirmation of Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama to become Attorney General. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts spoke against confirmation, criticizing his record on civil rights.\n\nSenator Warren quoted a statement from 1986 by former Senator Ted Kennedy regarding Senator Sessions' nomination to federal court judge, \"'He is, I believe, a disgrace to the Justice Department, and he should withdraw his nomination and resign his position.'\" Senator Warren said she \"will stand with Senator Kennedy, and, like he did, I will cast my vote against the nomination of Senator Sessions.\"\n\nSenator Warren continued by reading a letter that Coretta Scott King had written to the Senate Judiciary Committee in 1986:\n\nWhile Senator Warren was reading the letter from Mrs. King, Presiding Senate Chair Steve Daines of Montana interrupted her, reminding her of Senate Rule XIX, which prohibits ascribing \"to another senator or to other senators any conduct or motive unworthy or unbecoming a senator.\"\n\nSenator Warren stated that she had only said that former Senator Kennedy had called Senator Sessions a disgrace, and she asked whether reading King's letter that had been admitted into the Senate Record in 1986 was a violation of Senate Rules. Presiding Senate Chair Daines again quoted Rule XIX. Senator Warren asked to continue reading Mrs. King's letter, and Presiding Senate Chair Daines allowed her to do so.\n\nWhile Senator Warren continued reading the letter, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky interrupted, saying, \"The senator has impugned the motives and conduct of our colleague from Alabama, as warned by the chair.\" Senator McConnell objected to a line from Ms. King's letter, \"Mr. Sessions has used the awesome power of his office to chill the free exercise of the vote by black citizens\", which Senator Warren had quoted prior to the warning.\n\nSenator Warren said she was \"surprised that the words of Coretta Scott King are not suitable for debate in the United States Senate\", and requested to continue. Senator Daines asked whether there was objection. Senator McConnell objected, and Senator Daines called for a vote saying, \"The senator will take her seat\", preventing Senator Warren from continuing. The Senate voted to sustain McConnell's objection along party lines, 49–43, silencing Warren for the duration of the Sessions confirmation hearings.\n\nThirty hours remained in the hearings, and Democrats objected to Senator Warren's silencing. Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon subsequently read the letter from Coretta Scott King without objection. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey pointed out that the letter was already in the 1986 \"Congressional Record\".\n\nFollowing the Senate ruling to silence Senator Warren, Senator McConnell said on the Senate floor:\n\nFeminists and supporters of Senator Warren immediately adopted as a rallying cry the three-word sentence, \"Nevertheless, she persisted.\" It has been referenced with hashtags such as \"#Shepersisted\", and \"#LetLizspeak\", and it has been called a \"hashtag-ready motto for women at the ready to break barriers\". According to BuzzFeedNews, the quotation was shared on social media along with pictures of strong women \"who refused to be silenced\". Amy Wang of \"The Washington Post\" observed,\n\nCNN reported, \"For Warren's supporters, it was a textbook case of mansplaining followed by males silencing a woman\".\n\nOn National Public Radio's \"All Things Considered\", Scott Detrow said that \"Nevertheless, she persisted\" had become the new \"nasty woman\", which had become a rallying cry derived from Donald Trump's description of Hillary Clinton in 2016.\n\nMegan Garber of \"The Atlantic\" wrote that \"Nevertheless, she persisted\" appeared on the internet next to \"images not just of Warren and King, but also of Harriet Tubman, and Malala Yousafzai, and Beyoncé, and Emmeline Pankhurst, and Gabby Giffords, and Michelle Obama, and Hillary Clinton, and Princess Leia. It accompanied tags that celebrated #TheResistance.\" Hillary Clinton tweeted, \"She was warned. She was given an explanation. Nevertheless, she persisted. So must we all.\" It also appeared on merchandise: Reebok produced tee shirts with the expression and gave the proceeds to the Women's March. Hoodies and mugs with the meme were also produced. Salon reported women getting tattoos of the three words, more than 100 women in Minneapolis alone.\n\nOn June 7, 2017, Senator Warren tweeted support for Senator Kamala Harris using the \"Nevertheless She Persisted\" hashtag, after Harris was admonished for interrupting Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein during a hearing.\n\nIn 2018, the Women's History Month theme in the United States was \"Nevertheless, She Persisted: Honoring Women Who Fight All Forms of Discrimination against Women\", intentionally referring to the \"Nevertheless, she persisted\" remark by Mitch McConnell.\n\nOthers were less favorably inclined toward the expression and its application to Warren. Charlotte Allen of \"The Weekly Standard\" suggested that #Shepersisted was yet another tactic in the marketing of Warren as a possible presidential candidate, describing it as \"Red meat for Warren's supporters, who promptly cried sexism and compared her to Rosa Parks in her refusal to move to the back of the bus, and also to Marie Curie, who never gave up on her quest to discover radium. Within hours entrepreneurs were grinding out 'Nevertheless, she persisted' T-shirts in every size and color.\"\n\nThe incident was also discussed in the context of Senator Warren's possible presidential candidacy by the \"National Review\"'s David Harsanyi, who referred to Rule XIX as \"an arbitrary, speech-inhibiting rule that should not be used\". Stating \"it was unlikely any persuadable voter would have even heard about Warren’s grandstanding if it weren’t for the kerfuffle\", he suggested that the \"fuss\" (including popularity of the hashtags \"#Shepersisted\" and \"#LetLizspeak\") was indicative of a Democratic tendency to \"rely heavily on the identity politics that have failed them for six years, if not longer.\"\n\nAlso in the \"National Review\", Alexandra Desanctis wrote that McConnell's remark was \"inviting endless inappropriate comparisons between Warren and female political activists from around the world.\" Desanctis continued:\n\nGretel Kaufman of \"The Christian Science Monitor\" noted that some Democrats used the hashtag #LetLizSpeak to call Senator McConnell's remarks sexist, and that video of Senator Warren reading the full letter was widely viewed on social media. Raising concerns that the incident was \"an example of partisanship getting in the way of productive debate\", Kaufman quoted Republican Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, as saying that \"All of us need to take stock and need to start thinking about the people on the other side of the aisle and need to start thinking about how we might bring each other together.\"\n\nSome observers posited non-political reasons for the meme's proliferation. According to Daniel Victor of \"The New York Times\", \"A broader theme—that women are too commonly shushed or ignored—emerged on social media.\" Victor also noted that \"a man silencing a woman struck some as all too common\", and \"rang familiar with many women who had their own stories of being silenced.\" \"The Atlantic's\" Megan Garber wrote, \"American culture tells women to be quiet—many ways they are reminded that they would really be so much more pleasing if they would just smile a little more, or talk a little less, or work a little harder to be pliant and agreeable.\" Further, she wrote, when Senator Warren was silenced, \"many women, regardless of their politics or place...felt that silencing, viscerally... Because, regardless of their politics or place, those women have heard the same thing, or a version of it, many times before.\"\n\nHeidi Stevens of the \"Chicago Tribune\" commented, \"Three little words that women can draw on for decades to come, when something needs to be said and, darn it, we plan to say it. When we’re being talked over in meetings. When we’re fighting to be heard in male-dominated fields. When we’re standing up for our values. When we’re doing valuable work and people reduce us to our appearance.\"\n\nValerie Schultz wrote in \"America: the Jesuit Review of Faith & Culture\", \"It is a phrase we women embrace because persistence is what we do.\" After describing stories of persistent women from the Gospels, she concluded:\n\nIn March 2017, Chelsea Clinton announced she had written a picture book for children about 13 inspirational American women, titled \"She Persisted\". \n\nThe second-season finale of \"Supergirl\" is titled \"Nevertheless, She Persisted.\"\n\nIn July 2017, independent Abraham Lincoln researcher Kerry Ellard published an article entitled \"Nevertheless, She Persisted\" about Mary Todd Lincoln's fight for a government pension during the last two years of her life.\n\nThe anthology \"Nevertheless, She Persisted\", was released by Book View Café in August 2017. The anthology contains stories of female empowerment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "191539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191539", "title": "No Border network", "text": "No Border network\n\nThe No Border Network (In the United Kingdom also called \"No Borders Network\" or \"Noborders Network\") refers to loose associations of autonomous organisations, groups, and individuals in Western Europe, Central Europe, Eastern Europe and beyond. They support freedom of movement and resist human migration control by coordinating international border camps, demonstrations, direct actions, and anti-deportation campaigns.\n\nThe Western European network opposes what it says are increasingly restrictive harmonisation of asylum and immigration policy in Europe, and aims to build alliances among migrant laborers and refugees. Common slogans used by the Network include; \"No Border, No Nation, Stop Deportations!\" and \"No one is illegal.\"\n\nNo Border Network has existed since 1999, and its website since 2000. The No Borders Network in the United Kingdom claims to have local groups in 11 cities.\n\nGroups from the No Border network have been involved in organising a number of protest camps (called \"No Border Camps\" or sometimes \"Border Camps\"), e.g. in Strasbourg, France (2002), Frassanito, Italy (2003), Cologne (2003, 2012), Gatwick Airport (2007), United Kingdom, at Patras, Greece, Dikili, Turkey (2008), Calais, France (2009, 2015), Lesvos, Greece (2009), Brussels, Belgium (2010), Siva Reka, Bulgaria (2011), Stockholm, Sweden (2012), Rotterdam, the Netherlands (2013), Ventimiglia, Italy (2015).\n\nOn 18 December 2007, to coincide with the UN International Migrants Day, the network carried out a co-ordinated blockade of Border and Immigration Agency (now UK Border Agency) offices in Bristol, Portsmouth, Newcastle and Glasgow to prevent dawn raids by immigration officers from taking place. This form of action has been repeated across the UK by the network several times since.\n\nOn 24 October 2008, Phil Woolas, UK Minister of State for Borders and Immigration was pied by No Borders activists following his remarks on population control.\n\nIn February 2010 No Borders groups from the UK and France opened a large centre for refugees sleeping rough in Calais, France, under the name \"Kronstadt Hangar\".\n\nCalais authorities have accused \"extremist activists\" within to the No Borders network of being \"driven by an anarchist ideology of hatred of all laws and frontiers\" and engaging in, and encouraging, violence and harassment against French police and social workers at the Calais Jungle migrant camp, as well as \"manipulating\" and \"misleading\" the migrants living there.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1411062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1411062", "title": "Rashtriya Parivartan Dal", "text": "Rashtriya Parivartan Dal\n\nRashtriya Parivartan Dal (राष्ट्रीय परिवर्तन दल) (National Transformation Party) is a political party in India led by D. P. Yadav.\n\nRPD have 2 seats in UP State Assembly. Party President is D. P. Yadav, Uttar Pradesh State President is Ram Samujh and State Vice President is Abhinav Shukla.\n\nYadav's son, Vikas Yadav, had contested the 2002 Uttar Pradesh state assembly elections and lost. Vikas Yadav stands accused of murder.\n\nAhead of the 2004 Lok Sabha elections Yadav joined the Bharatiya Janata Party. His stay in the party did however become short, due to the overwhelming criticism inside the BJP for accepting him in spite of his criminal record. After being expelled from the BJP, Yadav reconstituted RPD.\n"}
{"id": "11837913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11837913", "title": "Real progress", "text": "Real progress\n\nReal Progress was a strapline, brand and theme of the Green Party of England and Wales in the 2004 European Election and the 2005 General Election. It was the subject of a Guardian editorial simply entitled \"Real progress\". \n\nIt was conceived by the Publications Co-ordinator on the Green Party of England and Wales#Executive 25-year-old Matt Wootton in late Summer 2003. It was first used in a leaflet at the Green Party's Autumn Conference in Lancaster in 2003. The Real Progress phrase was based on a theme initiated by External Communications Co-ordinator 2000-2004 Dr Spencer Fitz-Gibbon. By the end of the year Wootton had employed graphic designer Jim Killock to unify the words Green Party and Real Progress in a single \"badge\" and the \"lozenge\" was born, inspired as a homage to the European Green Party's \"rhomb\" which Wootton and Killock considered clunky (see Wootton's homepage).\n\nThe Real Progress rebrand was also a house style change, using a new set of colours, according to Wootton's website, inspired by the colours used on the website of the Swedish Green Party.\n\nThe rebrand utilised a designer typeface - the first time the Green Party had used one - which was chosen to be the modern-looking FF Profile which was chosen for its progressive, clean and slightly quirky qualities.\n\nThe rebrand was first launched to the media at the Spring Conference 2004 and made was covered by the BBC and The Times. The Times article demonstrates the importance of the rebrand to the Green Party at that time, with the party apparently eschewing \"beards, sandals and nut cutlets\" for \"sharp suits, a new colour scheme, a corporate logo and an “upbeat” range of “commonsense” policies.\"\n\nAlthough not an essentially research-based rebrand created using qualitative feedback, Wootton and Killock (Killock joined the Executive the next year) went on to become the party's two leading advocates of research and demographics.\n\nA series of Guardian articles are below, demonstrating the impact of the rebranding.\n\n"}
{"id": "14337444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14337444", "title": "Reichsbanner Schwarz-Rot-Gold", "text": "Reichsbanner Schwarz-Rot-Gold\n\nThe Reichsbanner Schwarz-Rot-Gold (, \"Black, Red, Gold Banner of the Reich\") was an organization in Germany during the Weimar Republic, formed by members of the Social Democratic Party of Germany, the German Centre Party, and the (liberal) German Democratic Party in 1924. Its goal was to defend parliamentary democracy against internal subversion and extremism from the left and right, to teach the population to respect the new Republic, to honor its flag and the constitution. Its name is derived from the Flag of Germany adopted in 1919, the colors of which were associated with liberal parliamentary democracy and the republic, and themselves had first appeared together on a state flag, within a German-ethnicity sovereign state in 1778.\n\nWhile the Reichsbanner was set up as a multiparty organization, it came to be strongly associated with the Social Democratic Party and viewed as their paramilitary force. The headquarters of the Reichsbanner was located in Magdeburg, but it had branches elsewhere.\n\nThe Reichsbanner's main opponents were the Communist Party of Germany and their Rotfrontkämpferbund on the left, and the Nazi Party and their Sturmabteilung on the right. Following the Nazi takeover, Reichsbanner members played a central role in the anti-Nazi resistance.\n\nThe Reichsbanner was re-established in 1953, as Reichsbanner Schwarz-Rot-Gold, Bund aktiver Demokraten e.V. as an association for political education.\n\nRight wing and nationalist armed groups, like the Stahlhelm or the SA, as well as the left-wing Communist Red Front Fighters had continued to radicalize and intensify the political struggle in Germany. The Reichsbanner was initially formed in reaction to the far right's \"Beer Hall\" Putsch and far left's Hamburg rebellion, both failed coups, which had taken place at the end of 1923. On 22 February 1924 members of the SPD, the German Centre Party, the German Democratic Party and trade unionists in Magdeburg established the \"Reichsbanner\". However the proportion of Social Democrats in the membership clearly outweighed all others, with estimates of up to 90 per cent.\n\n\"Reichsbanner\" was a veterans' federation, in which former soldiers of the First World War enlisted their military experience in the service of the republic. It thus saw its main task as the defense of the Weimar Republic against enemies from the National Socialist, monarchist and Communist camps. Social Democratic politician Otto Hörsing designated \"Reichsbanner\" in 1931 as a 'non-partisan protection organization of the Republic and democracy in the fight against the swastika and the Soviet star'. Members saw themselves as guardians of the inheritance of Germany's democratic tradition, going back to the Revolutions of 1848, and of the constitutional national colors: black, red and gold.\n\nIn the \"Reichsbanner\", two organizational structures existed in parallel: the political as a registered political association and the operational as a fighting force.\n\nThe political organization was headed by the Federal Administration comprising a 1st and 2nd chairman, three deputies, the federal treasurer, federal cashier, secretary, technical manager, federal youth leader, the sitting representatives and 15 assessors. The Federal Chairman was from 3 June 1932 Otto Hörsing. His deputy and later successor was Karl Höltermann. Beneath the federal level, Germany was divided up into \"gaus\", circles, districts and finally local associations. The executive committees of all organizational levels were elected from the membership of the all republican parties in concert.\n\nParallel to it, the operational organization was modeled as a military structure. The smallest unit was the group, with a group leader and eight men. Two to five groups formed a platoon (\"Zug\"), two to three courses formed a \"Kameradschaft\", which corresponded to a company of the army, between two and five of which constituted a department (\"Abteilung\") with two to five departments making up a district. At least two districts formed a circle. At \"Gau\" and federal level operational and political level structures overlapped so that The Federal Chairman was at the same time also Federal Commander, while each of the 32 \"Gau\" chairmen was also \"Gauführer\". The command personnel of the operational organisation were also recognized by badges of rank. The Federal Commander, for example, wore on his lower sleeve the federal eagle (black on a red field, with golden circular border) and two black-red-golden stripes over all.\n\nAccording to the organization's own records, membership in 1932 was put at three million.\n\nFollowing substantial Nazi electoral successes in 1930, the \"Reichsbanner\" in September sought to strengthen itself against intensified street violence by SA units with a restructuring of the operational organization. Active members were divided into master formations (\"Stafo\") and the elite units into protection formations (\"Schufo\"). In addition there were the \"Young Banners\". 250,000 men belonged to the Schufos in Spring 1931.\n\nOn 16 December 1931, the \"Reichsbanner\", the Workers' Gymnastic and Sporting Federation (ATSB), the General German Trade Union Federation (ADGB), and the Social Democratic Party formed the Iron Front, within which armed defensive operations were the responsibility of \"Reichsbanner\" and which became increasingly important in view of ever more intensifying acts of violence by members of the Nazi SA and the Communist Red Front (RFB).\n\nThe last federal general assembly of the \"Reichsbanner\" met on 17–18 February 1933 in Berlin. In March \"Reichsbanner\" and the Iron Front were banned throughout the Reich. The membership of both organizations were systematically hunted down for deportation to concentration camps and partially exterminated.\n\nFollowing the banning of the \"Reichsbanner\", some members joined the Stahlhelm, Bund der Frontsoldaten, which led to an incident where a mass signup in Braunschweig was raided by the Nazis, who called it the Stahlhelm Putsch.\n\nIn the now illegal underground organisations, the organisation's membership, in particular the former \"Schufos\" represented an important component in the Social Democratic resistance to the Nazi regime, for example the groups centred on Theodor Haubach and Karl Heinrich in Berlin and around Walter Schmedemann in Hamburg as well as the Socialist Front in Hanover.\n\n\"Reichsbanner\" was re-formed in 1953 as an association for political education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38004941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38004941", "title": "Religious affiliations of Prime Ministers of the Netherlands", "text": "Religious affiliations of Prime Ministers of the Netherlands\n\nThe following is a list of Prime Ministers of the Netherlands by religious affiliations.\n\n"}
{"id": "4091123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4091123", "title": "Rump party", "text": "Rump party\n\nA rump party is a political party that is formed by the remaining body of supporters and leaders who do not support a breakaway group who merge with or form another new party.\nThe rump party can have the name of the original party, or a new name.\n\nExamples:\n"}
{"id": "12454392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12454392", "title": "Solidarity lending", "text": "Solidarity lending\n\nSolidarity lending is a lending practice where small groups borrow collectively and group members encourage one another to repay. It is an important building block of microfinance.\n\nSolidarity lending takes place through 'solidarity groups'. These groups are a distinctive banking distribution channel used primarily to deliver microcredit to poor people. Solidarity lending lowers the costs to a financial institution related to assessing, managing and collecting loans, and can eliminate the need for collateral. Since there is a fixed cost associated with each loan delivered, a bank that bundles individual loans together and permits a group to manage individual relationships can realize substantial savings in administrative and management costs.\n\nIn many developing countries the legal system offers little, if any support for the property rights of poor people. Laws related to secured transactions – a cornerstone of Western banking – may also be absent or unenforced. Instead, solidarity lending levers various types of social capital like peer pressure, mutual support and a healthy culture of repayment. These characteristics make solidarity lending more useful in rural villages than in urban centres where mobility is greater and social capital is weaker.\n\nEfforts to replicate solidarity lending in developed countries have generally not succeeded. For example, the Calmeadow Foundation tested an analogous 'peer lending' model in three locations in Canada: rural Nova Scotia and urban Toronto and Vancouver during the 1990s. It concluded that a variety of factors – including difficulties in reaching the target market, the high risk profile of clients, their general distaste for the joint liability requirement, and high overhead costs – made solidarity lending unviable without subsidies. However, debates have continued about whether the required subsidies may be justified as an alternative to other subsidies targeted to the entrepreneurial poor, and VanCity Credit Union, which took over Calmeadow's Vancouver operations, continues to use peer lending.\n\nTapping social capital to lend money is not new to microfinance. Earlier precedents include the informal practices of ROSCAs and the bonds of association used in credit unions. In India, the practice of self-help group banking is inspired by similar principles.\n\nHowever, solidarity groups are distinctly different from earlier approaches in several important ways.\n\nFirst, solidarity groups are very small, typically involving 5 individuals who are allowed to choose one another but cannot be related. Five is often cited as an ideal size because it is:\n\nMuch evidence has also shown that social pressure is more effective among women than among men. The vast majority of loans using this methodology are delivered to women.\n\nLearning from the failure of the Comilla Model of cooperative credit piloted by Akhtar Hameed Khan in the 1950s and '60s, Grameen Bank and many other microcredit institutions have also taken an assertive approach to targeting poor women and excluding non-poor individuals entirely.\n\nAn early pioneer of solidarity lending, Dr. Muhammad Yunus of Grameen Bank in Bangladesh describes the dynamics of lending through solidarity groups this way:\n\nThe Grameen approach uses solidarity groups as its primary building block. However, responsibility for delinquent loans is handled by the elected leaders of a larger, village-level group called a 'centre' composed of eight solidarity groups. Because all the members are from the same village and loan payments take place during the centre meeting, the principle of using social capital for leverage is not compromised; the only difference is that all the members of the centre are collectively responsible for unpaid loans.\n\nMany microcredit institutions use solidarity groups essentially as a form of joint liability. That is, they will take any action practical to collect a seriously delinquent loan not just from the individual member, but from any member of the solidarity group with the capability to repay it. But Yunus has always rejected this concept, arguing that whatever moral responsibility may pertain among group members, there is no formal or legal \"... form of joint liability, i.e. group members are not responsible to pay on behalf of a defaulting member.\"\n\nSolidarity lending is widespread in microfinance today, particularly in Asia. In addition to Grameen Bank, major practitioners include SEWA, Bank Rakyat Indonesia, Accion International, FINCA, BRAC and SANASA. The Calmeadow Foundation was another important pioneer.\n\nThe \"Microbanking Bulletin\" tracks solidarity lending as a separate microfinance methodology. Of 446 microfinance institutions worldwide that it was tracking at the end of 2005, 39 lent only through this method, while another 205 used a mix of solidarity and individual lending. The average loan balance outstanding at solidarity lenders was $109 (19% of local gross national income), compared to $1,024 (61% of local gross national income) among individual lenders. This shows not only that solidarity lenders are meeting the needs of a significantly poorer market segment, but also that they are doing it in significantly poorer countries.\n\nIn Costa Rica, many companies enable their employees to organize \"Asociaciones Solidaristas\" (Solidarism Associations), which enables them to create saving funds, loans, and financial activities (for example managing the company's coffee shop) with financial support from the company. \n\nSolidarity lending has clearly had a positive impact on many borrowers. Without it, many would not have borrowed at all, or would have been forced to rely on loan sharks. However, it has been the subject of much criticism. A recent survey of the empirical research concludes that the search for alternative approaches must continue, and highlights problems such as \"borrowers growing frustrated at the cost of attending regular meetings, loan officers refusing to sanction good borrowers who happen to be in 'bad' groups, and constraints imposed by the diverging ambitions of group members.\"\n\nEfforts to ensure that all members of solidarity groups are equally poor may not always improve group performance. Greater socio-economic diversity \"means that group members' incomes are less likely to vary together, and thus group members' ability to insure each other increases\". The solidarity lending approach, which excludes less-poor borrowers, was adopted in large part because of a view that the more inclusive cooperative 'bond of association' had failed in Bangladesh (see the Comilla Model). But the founder of Bangladesh's credit cooperatives, Akhter Hameed Khan documented that the Model's practices contravened two fundamental credit union operating principles: independence from government intervention, and local financial self-reliance. The case that the 'inclusive' approach to organizational development used by the Comilla Model accounts for its failure has not been made.\n\nWhile poverty-targeting has had many successes, social solidarity is not solely a tool for the lending institution – it can also be used by borrowers. A loan 'strike', if it gains the sympathy of a large number of borrowers, can lead to a rapid and highly unstabilizing escalation in delinquencies. It was this type of circumstance that led in 1998, to the rapid escalation of delinquency at Grameen Bank that resulted in the redesign dubbed 'Grameen II'.\n\nThe photo above – of a group of women seated in rows on the ground before a male NGO-officer who sits in a chair processing their payments – encapsulates another common critique. Solidarity groups may be composed entirely of women, but the staff who decide when and if they receive financial services are often dominated by males.\n\n"}
{"id": "54891714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54891714", "title": "Tamsin Blanchard", "text": "Tamsin Blanchard\n\nTamsin Blanchard is a British fashion journalist, author, and lecturer. She is particularly known for her work on sustainability and ecological issues in fashion.\n\nBlanchard was born in Liverpool and took a fashion journalism course at Central Saint Martins.\n\nIn 1998 Blanchard started up a biannual fashion and visual arts magazine titled \"IT\", for which she was publisher and co-editor. She was also at \"The Independent\" as a fashion editor, and from 1999 to 2005 was Style Editor at \"The Observer\". She then joined \"The Daily Telegraph\" as style director for their magazine.\n\nThe Fashion Museum, Bath, chose Blanchard as the fashion journalist to select the most defining looks of 1996 for their Dress of the Year collection. She picked out an Alexander McQueen tunic and 'bumster' trousers from his \"Hunger\" collection for the womenswear look, and a man's Paul Smith electric blue two-piece suit and shirt. At the press launch, the clothes were modelled by Jimmy Pursey and his then partner Tizer Bailey, the model who had originally worn the McQueen ensemble in the designer's catwalk presentation. Blanchard said at the time that McQueen, who had recently succeeded John Galliano as the designer for Givenchy, was one of the strongest representations of mid-nineties \"cutting-edge style,\" whilst Smith's suit represented the revolution in menswear where the male consumer was increasingly aware of labels and design.\n\nBlanchard is also a fashion correspondent for the Victoria and Albert Museum's magazine and a contributing editor to \"10 Magazine.\" She has also contributed to \"Vogue\", \"Marie Claire\", \"Harper's Bazaar\" and \"Rubbish\". \n\nBlanchard has been invited to teach fashion journalism at the University of Westminster and Central Saint Martins.\n\nBlanchard's best-known book is probably \"Green is the New Black: How to Change the World with Style\", published in 2007 and dealing with ecological awareness in a fashion-conscious lifestyle. TreeHugger reviewed the book favourably, noting that while Blanchard was not as authoritative on eco-issues as Lucy Siegle, she had still written a well-informed, fair-handed book that wrote accessibly about how to be both fashion-conscious and environmentally aware, and the EcoSalon website listed it as among their top 15 books on eco-fashion. However, a reviewer for \"The Daily Mail\" dismissed the book as \"utter pointlessness.\" The book established Blanchard as an authority on the subject of eco-consciousness in fashion, leading to her being approached for commentary on the topic.\n\n\nBlanchard lives in London with her partner and their children.\n\n"}
{"id": "10951104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10951104", "title": "Treaty of Lutatius", "text": "Treaty of Lutatius\n\nThe Treaty of Lutatius officially ended the First Punic War. It received its name from Gaius Lutatius Catulus, the Roman consul and victor of the Battle of the Aegates Islands who negotiated it with a subordinate of Hamilcar Barca in 241 BC. According to the historian Polybius, the terms of the accord dictated that Carthage must evacuate Sicily, not make war upon Syracuse or its allies, hand over all prisoners taken during the war, and pay an indemnity of 2200 talents (66 tons) of silver in 20 annual installments. Originally rejected by the Roman people, these terms were eventually adopted with very little change under the authority of Quintus Lutatius Cerco, the brother of Gaius Lutatius Catulus. In the final agreement, Carthage was only given ten years to pay an indemnity of 3200 talents (96 tons), and had to evacuate the islands between Sicily and Italy (Ustica and the Aeolian Islands) and Aegadian Islands off western coast of Sicily.\n\n"}
{"id": "3595454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3595454", "title": "Vaccine Safety Datalink", "text": "Vaccine Safety Datalink\n\nThe Vaccine Safety Datalink Project (VSD) was established in 1990 by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to study the adverse effects of vaccines.\n\nFour large health maintenance organizations, including Kaiser Permanente, were initially recruited to provide the CDC with medical data on vaccination histories, health outcomes, and subject characteristics. The VSD database contains data compiled from surveillance on more than seven million people in the United States, including about 500,000 children from birth through age six years (2% of the U.S. population in this age group).\n\nThe VSD data-sharing program is now being administered by the National Center for Health Statistics Research Data Center. The data sharing guidelines have been revised to include comments from interested groups as well as recommendations from the Institute of Medicine (IOM).\n\nThe Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS), the VSD, and the Clinical Immunization Safety Assessment (CISA) Network are tools by which the CDC and FDA measure vaccine safety to fulfill their duty as regulatory agencies charged with protecting the public. Data from the VSD Project have been utilized to address a number of vaccine safety concerns; examples include a study clarifying the risk of anaphylaxis after vaccine administration and several studies examining the rejected hypothesis of a link between thimerosal-containing vaccines and autism.\n\nThe following organizations are members of the project:\n\n"}
{"id": "11737832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11737832", "title": "Vergonha", "text": "Vergonha\n\n\"La vergonha\" (, meaning \"shame\") is what Occitans call the effects of various policies of the government of France on its citizens whose native language was a so-called \"patois\", a language other than French, such as Occitan or one of the dialects of the \"langues d'oc\". \"Vergonha\" is being made to reject and feel ashamed of one's (or one's parents') mother tongue through official exclusion, humiliation at school and rejection from the media, as organized and sanctioned by French political leaders from Henri Grégoire onward. \"Vergonha\", which is still a taboo topic in France where some still refuse to admit such discrimination ever existed, can be seen as the result of an attempted linguicide. In 1860, before schooling was made compulsory, native Occitan speakers represented more than 39% of the whole French population, as opposed to 52% of francophones proper; their share of the population declined to 26–36% in the 1920s, and then dropped to less than 7% by 1993.\n\nBeginning in 1539 with Art. 111 of the Ordinance of Villers-Cotterêts, non-French languages in France were reduced in stature when it became compulsory \"to deliver and execute all [legal] acts in the French language\" (\"de prononcer et expedier tous actes en langaige françoys\"). Originally meant as a way to eliminate Latin in official documents — few 16th-century French subjects were educated and familiar with Latin — it also stated that French and only French was legal in the kingdom (\"en langage maternel françoys et non aultrement\").\n\nThe deliberate process of eradicating non-French vernaculars in modern France and disparaging them as mere local and often strictly oral dialects was formalized with Henri Grégoire's \"Report on the necessity and means to annihilate the patois and to universalise the use of the French language\", which he presented on June 4, 1794 to the National Convention; thereafter, all languages other than French were officially banned in the administration and schools for the sake of linguistically uniting post-Bastille Day France. At the time, only one tenth of the population were fluent in French. In reference to \"patois\", Jean Jaurès famously claimed that \"one names \"patois\" the language of a defeated nation\". According to the \"Chambers Dictionary\", the origin of the term is disputed but could be a \"corruption of \"patrois\", from LL \"patriensis\", a local inhabitant\".\n\nFour months earlier (January 27), Bertrand Barère, although an Occitan from Tarbes himself, claimed before this same Convention:\nThis policy can be noted by the way France's internal borders were redrawn, creating 83 \"départements\". The law was passed on December 22, 1789 and took effect the following year, on March 4, 1790. As a result, the centuries-old singularities of the various Occitan-speaking parts were overlooked and shaken in a deliberate effort by the newly formed government to weaken and parcel out long-established feudal domains so that republican France would subdue traditional allegiances, as Antonin Perbòsc reveals in the Foreword to his \"Anthologie\":\nIn the 20th century, the \"départements\" were grouped into \"régions\", to create a level of government between the departmental and national. While the \"régions\" were intended to replace the old provinces, they were not necessarily formed along the same boundaries. As the map shows, there were eleven Occitan-speaking enclaves in the pre-1789 state, such as the powerful lands of Languedoc and Gascony, but they were divided into seven \"régions\" with no regard whatsoever for cultural and linguistic identities. This is how Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur was created out of portions of five Occitan provinces and three capitals were scrapped in favour of Marseille; and Auvergne came to comprise both native and \"langues d'oïl\" entities. Meanwhile, the city of Nantes was administratively removed from Brittany, of which it had been one of two traditional capitals (along with Rennes), and the city of Toulouse was not included in the \"région\" of Languedoc-Roussillon, though it had historically been located in that province.\n\nMany of the \"régions\" contain hyphenated names, reflecting the merging of multiple historically distinct areas. This is true for four of the seven \"régions\" of Occitania: Languedoc-Roussillon, Midi-Pyrénées, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur and Rhône-Alpes.\n\n\nIn the 1880s, Jules Ferry implemented a series of strict measures to further weaken \"regional\" languages in France, as shown in Bernard Poignant's 1998 report to Lionel Jospin. These included children being given punishments by their teachers for speaking Occitan in a Toulouse school or Breton in Brittany. Art. 30 of \"Loi d'éducation française\" (French Teaching Law, 1851) stated that: \"It is strictly forbidden to speak patois during classes or breaks.\"\n\nAmong other well-known humiliations was \"clogging\" young rebels, namely hanging a clog (\"sabot\") around their necks as this young lady recalls her grandparents telling her:\n\nMy grandparents speak Breton too, though not with me. As children, they used to have their fingers smacked if they happened to say a word in Breton. Back then, the French of the Republic, one and indivisible, was to be heard in all schools and those who dared challenge this policy were humiliated with having to wear a clog around their necks or kneel down on a ruler under a sign that read: \"It is forbidden to spit on the ground and speak Breton\". That's the reason why some older folks won't transmit the language to their children: it brings trouble upon yourself...\n\nThis practice was referred to as le symbole by officials and \"la vache\" (the cow) by pupils, with offenders becoming \"vachards\". Many objects were used, not just clogs: horseshoes, shingles, slates, wooden plates with a message, coins with a cross on them. The following are official instructions from a Finistère sub-prefect to teachers in 1845: \"And remember, Gents: you were given your position in order to kill the Breton language.\" The prefect of Basses-Pyrénées in the French Basque Country wrote in 1846: \"Our schools in the Basque Country are particularly meant to substitute the Basque language with French...\"\n\nResorting to the practice of \"clogging\" is confirmed by the Autonomes de Solidarité Laïques website:\n\nSchool has had a unifying role inasmuch as speaking the \"noble\" language [French] reduced the use of regional dialects and \"patois\". Let us mention the humiliation of children made to wear a clog around their necks for inadvertently speaking a word in the language of the people.\n\nAs for signs, they were also found in Poitou schools:\n\nIt seems as though Jules Ferry making school free and compulsory in 1881 materialized the work started four centuries earlier [with the Ordinance of Villers-Cotterêts]; the method of repression and humiliation that was undertaken bore fruit with, for instance, the famous signs in school reading: \"It is forbidden to spit on the ground and speak \"patois\".\"\n\nThe Conselh de Representacion Generala de la Joventut d'Òc (CRGJOC, General Representation Council of the Occitan Youth), through the Youth of European Nationalities website, reports that\n\nOur language [Occitan] lost its name, becoming some \"\"patois\", first at school and then in families through putting pressure on women in education (\"Interdit de cracher par terre et de parler patois\"\") with the French Third Republic, Mussolini and Franco.\n\nThe Confolentés Occitan (Occitan-speaking Limousin) website testifies of the methods used by French authorities over the past century or so:\n\nTo help efface traditional regional identities, the Occitan language was not merely discouraged but actively suppressed. School pupils were punished well within living memory for speaking their native language on school premises.\n\nThe French administration managed to make the Occitan speakers think of their own language as a patois, i.e. as a corrupted form of French used only by the ignorant and uneducated. This alienating process is known as \"la vergonha\" (\"the shame\").\n\nMany older speakers of Occitan still believe that their native language is no more than a shameful patois. This is one reason why you rarely hear it in public — or anywhere outside of the neighbourhood or family circle.\nIn the school of Camélas in Northern Catalonia, a former pupil reports,\n\nEveryone but the teacher's children spoke Catalan among themselves. We'd even get punished for that, because at the time, we all had to speak French. \"Be Clean, Speak French\" could be found written on the school's walls. And if you refused to speak French, they'd give you some sort of wooden sign to wear \"until death came\", as we said, which meant the last offender, in the evening, had twenty lines to copy. We'd speak French in the schoolyard, and for the first ten metres of the way back home, for as long as we thought the teacher would overhear us, and then we'd switch back to our own mother tongue, Catalan.\n\nIn those times, Catalan speakers were rather despised. My generation associated speaking Catalan with a disadvantage, with being less than the others, with running the risk of being left behind on the social ladder, in short with bringing trouble.\nAbbé Grégoire's own terms were kept to designate the languages of France: while Breton referred to the language spoken in Brittany, the word \"patois\" encompassed all Romance \"dialects\" such as Occitan and Franco-Provençal. In his report, Corsican and Alsatian were dismissed as \"highly degenerate\" (\"très-dégénérés\") forms of Italian and German, respectively. As a result, some people still call their non-French language \"patois\", encouraged by the fact they were never taught how to write it and made to think only French exists in the written form.\n\nIn 1902, in a speech before the \"Conseil Général\" of Morbihan, Chief Education Officer Dantzer recommended that \"the Church give first communion only to French-speaking children\".\n\nIn the same year, prime minister Émile Combes, himself an Occitan, told the prefects of Morbihan, Côtes-du-Nord and Finistère that:\n\nBreton priests want to keep their flock in ignorance by refusing to promote education and using only the Breton language in religious teachings and catechism. The Bretons will only be part of the Republic the day they start speaking French.\nAs the doctor in Catalan philology and professor at the University of the Balearic Islands Jaume Corbera Pou argues,\n\nWhen at the mid-19th century, primary school is made compulsory all across the State, it is also made clear that only French will be taught, and the teachers will severely punish any pupil speaking in \"patois\". The aim of the French educational system will consequently not be to dignify the pupils' natural humanity, developing their culture and teaching them to write their language, but rather to humiliate them and morally degrade them for the simple fact of being what tradition and their nature made them. The self-proclaimed country of the \"Human rights\" will then ignore one of man's most fundamental rights, the right to be himself and speak the language of his nation. And with that attitude France, the \"grande France\" that calls itself the champion of liberty, will pass the 20th century, indifferent to the timid protest movements of the various linguistic communities it submitted and the literary prestige they may have given birth to.\n\nFrance, that under Franco's reign was seen here [in Catalonia] as the safe haven of freedom, has the miserable honour of being the [only] State of Europe—and probably the world — that succeeded best in the diabolical task of destroying its own ethnic and linguistic patrimony and moreover, of destroying human family bonds: many parents and children, or grandparents and grandchildren, have different languages, and the latter feel ashamed of the first because they speak a despicable \"patois\", and no element of the grandparents' culture has been transmitted to the younger generation, as if they were born out of a completely new world. This is the French State that has just entered the 21st century, a country where stone monuments and natural landscapes are preserved and respected, but where many centuries of popular creation expressed in different tongues are on the brink of extinction. The \"gloire\" and the \"grandeur\" built on a genocide. No liberty, no equality, no fraternity: just cultural extermination, this is the real motto of the French Republic.\nIn 1972, Georges Pompidou, the President of France and a native of an Occitan-speaking region, declared that \"there is no room for regional languages in a France whose fate is to mark Europe with its seal\".\n\nIn a pre-election speech in Lorient, on March 14, 1981, François Mitterrand asserted that:\n\nThese declarations however were not followed by any effective measures.\n\nIn 1992, after some questioned the unconstitutional segregation of minority languages in France, Art. II of the 1958 French Constitution was revised so that \"the language of the Republic is French\" (\"la langue de la République est le français\"). This was achieved only months before the Council of Europe passed the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, which Jacques Chirac ignored despite Lionel Jospin's plea for the Constitutional Council to amend Art. II and include all vernacular languages spoken on French soil. Yet again, non-French languages in France were denied official recognition and deemed too dangerous for the unity of the country, and Occitans, Basques, Corsicans, Catalans, Bretons, Alsatians, Nissarts, Savoyards and Flemings have still no explicit legal right to conduct public affairs in their regional languages within their home lands. The text was again refused by majority deputies on January 18, 2008, after the Académie française voiced their absolute disapproval of so-called regional languages, the recognition of which they perceive as \"an attack on French national identity\".\n\nOn the UMP website, Nicolas Sarkozy denies any mistreatment of regional languages. In a pre-electoral speech in Besançon on 13 March 2007 he claimed:\n\nHis Socialist rival, Ségolène Royal, on the contrary, declared herself ready to sign the Charter in a March 2007 speech in Iparralde for the sake of cultural variety in France:\n\nOn 27 October 2015, the Senate rejected a bill for the ratification of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, preventing the adoption of a constitutional reform that would have given a degree of official status to regional languages such as Occitan.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7962309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7962309", "title": "Vladimir Pronichev", "text": "Vladimir Pronichev\n\nGeneral of the Army Vladimir Yegorovich Pronichev (born March 1, 1953) is the current head of the Border Guard Service of the Russian Federation. Pronichev also holds the title of First Deputy Director of the Federal Security Service (FSB), the successor organization to KGB.\n\nBorn in 1953, Pronichev served with the Border Guards as an officer in the Transcaucasus, the Soviet Far East, and the Northwest Border Districts from 1974 to 1981. Subsequently, he served with the FSB in Karelia and led the FSB's anti-terrorism efforts until 1999, when he was named to his current post in the FSB.\n\nWhen the Federal Border Guard Service was reorganized (in 2003) as a directorate of the FSB, Pronichev was named to lead the Border Service and retained his former title as well.\n\nVladimir Pronichev was the head of the FSB operation on the ground in Beslan during the Beslan school siege.\n\nBiography of V.Y. Pronichev, official website of the Border Service of the Russian Federation (in Russian)\n\n"}
{"id": "17339980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17339980", "title": "Water management hierarchy", "text": "Water management hierarchy\n\nWater Management Hierarchy (WMH) is a hierarchy of water conservation priorities. Levels of the hierarchy from the highest to the lowest in terms of the priority for water conservation include elimination, reduction, outsourcing/reuse and regeneration. The most preferred option is elimination, followed by reduction of water demand. After that, direct reuse/recycling and water outsourcing through method such as rainwater harvesting are preferred. This is followed by regeneration or treatment of wastewater before being reused. Freshwater will only be used when all water-saving options have been explored.\n\nThe WMH was used as an effective screening tool in cost effective minimum water network methodology to stretch the limits of water savings beyond those achievable using conventional pinch analysis approach.\n\n\nsee the references"}
{"id": "27045784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27045784", "title": "World Development (journal)", "text": "World Development (journal)\n\nWorld Development is a monthly peer-reviewed academic journal covering development studies. The journal was established in 1973 and is published by Elsevier.\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 2.848. It was ranked 32/347 in economics and 5/55 in planning and development.\n"}
{"id": "3781123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3781123", "title": "World Network of Users and Survivors of Psychiatry", "text": "World Network of Users and Survivors of Psychiatry\n\nThe World Network of Users and Survivors of Psychiatry (WNUSP) is an international organisation representing, and led by what it terms \"survivors of psychiatry\". As of 2003, over 70 national organizations were members of WNUSP, based in 30 countries. The network seeks to protect and develop the human rights, disability rights, dignity and self-determination of those labeled 'mentally ill'.\n\nWNUSP has special consultative status with the United Nations. It contributed to the development of the UN's Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. WNUSP has produced a manual to help people use it entitled \"Implementation Manual for the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities\", edited by Myra Kovary.\n\nWNUSP joined with other organizations to create the International Disability Caucus, which jointly represented organizations of people with disabilities and allies during the CRPD negotiations. WNUSP was part of the steering committee of the IDC, which maintained a principle of respecting the leadership of diverse constituencies on issues affecting them, and also maintained that the convention should be of equal value to all persons with disabilities irrespective of the type of disability or geographical location. Tina Minkowitz, WNUSP's representative on the IDC steering committee, coordinated the IDC's work on key articles of the CRPD, including those on legal capacity, liberty, torture and ill-treatment and integrity of the person. Since the adoption and entry into force of the CRPD, WNUSP has worked with other organizations in the International Disability Alliance and its CRPD Forum to guide the interpretation and application of the CRPD on these issues.\n\nIn 2007 at a Conference held in Dresden on \"Coercive Treatment in Psychiatry: A Comprehensive Review\", the president and other leaders of the World Psychiatric Association met, following a formal request from the World Health Organization, with four representatives from the user/survivor movement, including Judi Chamberlin, co-chair of WNUSP, who participated in her personal capacity.\n\nSalam Gomez and Jolijn Santegoeds are the current Co-Chairpersons of WNUSP.\n\nCurrent International Representative and former co-chair of WNUSP is Tina Minkowitz, an international advocate and lawyer. She represented WNUSP in the Working Group convened by the UN to produce a draft text of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and contributed to a UN seminar on torture and persons with disabilities that resulted in an important report on the issue by Special Rapporteur on Torture Manfred Nowak in 2008.\n\nSince the 1970s, the psychiatric survivors movement has grown from a few scattered self-help groups to a worldwide network engaged in protecting civil rights and facilitation of efforts to provide housing, employment, public education, research, socialisation and advocacy programmes. The term 'psychiatric survivor' is used by individuals who identify themselves as having experienced human rights violations in the mental health system. WNUSP was established to further promote this movement and to respond on an international level to the oppression survivors continue to experience.\n\nAfter initially meeting, in 1991, as the World Federation of Psychiatric Users at the biennial World Federation for Mental Health conference in Mexico, the network's name was changed to WNUSP in 1997. In 2000, the WNUSP Secretariat was established in Odense, Denmark. In 2001, the network held its First General Assembly in Vancouver, British Columbia, with 34 groups from twelve countries represented, and adopted its governing statutes.\n\nIn 2004, the network held its Second General Assembly in Vejle, Denmark with 150 participants from 50 countries attending.\n\nIn 2007 WNUSP received ECOSOC special consultative status at the United Nations.\n\nIn 2009, WNUSP held its third General Assembly in Kampala, Uganda. It adopted the Kampala Declaration stating its positions on the CRPD, which was later expanded into a longer version adopted by consensus of the board and the participants in the Kampala GA.\n\nThe European Network of (Ex)Users and Survivors of Psychiatry is the most important European NGO of (ex-)users and survivors. Forty-two representatives from 16 European countries met at a conference to found it in the Netherlands in October 1991. Every 2 years, delegates from the ENUSP members in more than 40 European countries meet at a conference where the policies for the coming period are set out. All delegates are (ex-)users and survivors of psychiatry. ENUSP is officially involved in consultations on mental health plans and policies of the European Union, World Health Organization and other important bodies. Initial funding came from the Dutch government and from the European Commission but has since proved more difficult to secure. ENUSP is involved in commenting and debating declarations, position papers, policy guidelines of the EU, UN, WHO and other important bodies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33306427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33306427", "title": "Young Europe", "text": "Young Europe\n\nYoung Europe () was an international association formed in 1834 by Giuseppe Mazzini on the model of Young Italy. It was composed of the national societies of Young Italy, , and Young Germany, which, independent in their own sphere, acted in common, through a central committee, for the furthering of the principles of liberty, equality, and humanity in Europe. The headquarters of the society were in Switzerland, where, in 1835-36, was brought about the organization of a French society, Young France. The activity of the society speedily aroused the opposition of the Swiss authorities, who expelled many of its members from the country.\n"}
