{"id": "39173543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39173543", "title": "Academy of Comic-Book Fans and Collectors", "text": "Academy of Comic-Book Fans and Collectors\n\nThe Academy of Comic-Book Fans and Collectors (ACBFC) was the first official organization of comic book enthusiasts and historians. Active during the 1960s, the ACBFC was established by Jerry Bails, the \"father of comics fandom.\" A vital player in the development of comics fandom, the ACBFC brought fans of the medium together, administered the first industry awards (the Alley Awards), and assisted in the establishment of the first comic book fan conventions.\n\nThe idea of the Academy was inspired by Bails' friend and fellow enthusiast Roy Thomas, who felt a comics-industry version of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences would be an effective way \"to emphasize the seriousness of comics fans about their hobby.\" Bails further liked \"the idea of a fandom organization that would not only perpetuate the concept of comics as an art form, but would also act as a sort of umbrella for all his ideas and projects, and those of others.\" In short order — 1961 or 1962 — the Academy of Comic-Book Arts and Sciences was established. Bails served as the Academy's first executive secretary, which had an initial roster of about twenty members.\nThe Academy's first order of business was to administer the Alley Awards, which traced their origin to \"a letter to Jerry dated October 25, 1961,\" by Thomas, in which he suggested to Bails that his fanzine \"Alter-Ego\" create its own awards to reward fandom's \"favorite comic books in a number of categories\" in a manner similar to the Oscars. Initially suggested as \"The Alter-Ego Award,\" the resulting idea was soon named \"The Alley Award,\" \"named after V. T. Hamlin's Alley Oop\" by Thomas \"because surely a caveman had to be the earliest superhero chronologically.\" The first Alley Awards, given for the calendar year 1961, were reported in \"Alter Ego\" #4 (Oct. 1962).\n\nIn 1963 Bails renamed the organization (which now had a membership of 90) the Academy of Comic-Book Fans and Collectors upon ratification of its charter,\nwith these goals:\n\n\"Forum\" was name of the ACBFC journal, the first issue of which was published in October 1964 out of South Bend, Indiana.\n\nOn March 21–22, 1964, the first annual \"Alley Tally\" by ACBFC members was organized by Bails at his house in Detroit, with the purpose of counting \"the Alley Award ballots for 1963.\" This became notable in retrospect as the first major gathering of comics fans, predating the earliest comic book conventions, which were held later in the year. Attendees included Ronn Foss, Don Glut, Don and Maggie Thompson, Mike Vosburg, and Grass Green. Comics historian Bill Schelly notes that the Alley Tally and \"even larger fan meetings in Chicago . . . helped build momentum\" for these earliest conventions. (Bails himself was \"on the organizing committee\" for the Detroit Triple Fan Fair, held in 1965.)\n\nAt the end of 1964, Bails passed on his role as executive secretary to fellow fan Paul Gambaccini (who termed himself \"ExecSec2\").\n\nBy 1965, the title of ACBFC Executive Secretary had passed to Dave Kaler and the Academy had a membership of 2,000. Under Kaler's leadership, the Academy produced three successful \"Academy Con\" comic book conventions in New York City during the summers of 1965–1967, attracting industry professionals such as Otto Binder, Bill Finger, Gardner Fox, Mort Weisinger, James Warren, Roy Thomas, Gil Kane, Stan Lee, Bill Everett, Carmine Infantino, and Julius Schwartz.\n\nBy 1968, comics fandom — including annual conventions being held in New York, Detroit, St. Louis, and the Southwest — had become well established, and the Academy's mission had been essentially fulfilled. In early 1968, due to a number of factors, Executive Secretary Kaler left, and Academy member Maggie Thompson declared the ACBFC \"moribund.\" A 1969 mention in \"Marvel Bullpen Bulletins\" may have helped revive interest temporarily — it noted that the group \"holds an annual poll to determine the most popular mags, writers and artists of the preceding year,\" (referring to the Alley Awards) and directed fans to obtain a ballot from then ACBFC executive secretary (and future comics professional) Mark Hanerfeld (who resided in Flushing, New York). Nonetheless, the Academy waned, \"and it was disbanded for lack of interest by the decade's end.\" 1970 was also the final year of the Alley Awards (awarded for calendar year 1969).\n\n\"The Comic Reader\", meanwhile, became \"a mainstay of fandom,\" continuing as a (generally) monthly magazine under a succession of editors (including Hanerfeld and Paul Levitz), before being taken over in 1973 by Street Enterprises, which published the magazine until the mid-1980s.\n\n"}
{"id": "3091859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3091859", "title": "Adventure therapy", "text": "Adventure therapy\n\nAdventure therapy, as a distinct and separate form of psychotherapy, has become prominent since the 1960s. Influences from a variety of learning and psychological theories have contributed to the complex theoretical combination within adventure therapy. The underlying philosophy largely refers to experiential education. Existing research in adventure therapy reports positive outcomes in effectively improving self-concept and self-esteem, help seeking behavior, increased mutual aid, pro-social behavior, trust behavior and more. Although there is considerable and growing research evidence indicating positive outcome there is some disagreement about the underlying process that creates these positive outcomes.\n\nMany different terms have been used to identify the diverse methods of treatment in the wilderness environment. Ewert, McCormick, & Voight, (2001) distinguished between adventure therapy, wilderness therapy, and outdoor experiential therapy. According to them, adventure therapy uses outdoor activities involving risk and physical and emotional challenge. Wilderness therapy usually refers to the use of primitive methods in wilderness contexts requiring adaptation or the ability to cope. Outdoor experiential therapy is outdoor treatment to promote \"rehabilitation, growth, development, and enhancement of an individual's physical, social and psychological well-being through the application of structured activities involving direct experience\" (Ewert et al., 2001, p. 109). The latter may be part of a residential treatment program. \nMore recently, adventure therapy has evolved to include the use of adventure activities supported by traditional therapy. Often adventure therapy is conducted in a group or family context, though increasingly adventure therapy is being used with individuals. Adventure therapy approaches psychological treatment through experience and action within cooperative games, Trust activities, Problem Solving Initiatives, High adventure, outdoor pursuits, and wilderness expeditions. Some believe that in adventure therapy there must be a real or perceived psychological and or physical risk generating a level of challenge or perceived risk. Challenge can be viewed as significant in eliciting desired behavioral changes. Positive behavior changes, which are synonymous with psychological healing, can occur through a variety of processes. For example, through the use of vicarious experience, verbal persuasion, and overwhelming mastery experiences, participants' efficacy in the adventure activity may be increased (Bandura, 1997). These increases may then be generalized to treatment outcomes within and across life domains (Bandura, 1997; Weitlauf, Cervone, Smith, & Wright, 2001; Cervone, 2005). Five factors can be used to promote generalization of efficacy across domains: overwhelming mastery experiences, identification of similar sub-skills, co-development of sub-skills, cognitive restructuring of efficacy beliefs and generalizing sub-skills (Bandura, 1997, pp 50–54). Debriefing or processing provides a context for implementing therapeutic techniques related to the desired outcomes. It typically involves a discussion where facilitators lead a discussion to help participants internalize the experience and relate it to therapeutic goals.\n\nAdventure therapy encompasses varying techniques and environments to elicit change. These include cooperative games, problem solving initiatives, trust building activities, high adventure (rock climbing/rappelling, ropes courses, peak ascents); and wilderness expeditions (backpacking, canoeing, dog sledding, sailing, etc.). Wilderness therapy, adventure based therapy, and long term residential camping are the most common forms of adventure therapy.\n\nThe use of adventure as a part of healing process can be traced back in history to many cultures including Native American, Jewish and Christian traditions. Tent therapy, emerged in the early 1900s. This therapy brought certain psychiatric patients out of hospital buildings and into tents on the hospital's lawn. Many patients showed improvement during this treatment that prompted a series of studies, which failed to present enough evidence to support efficacy. Literature on this therapy lasted approximately 20 years and then dropped off completely.\n\nIn the late 1930s this approach reappeared mainly as camping programs designed for troubled youth. This era influenced the present day use and extent of adventure therapy programs with adolescents. The format for these programs utilized observation, diagnosis and psychotherapy. One of the first of these programs was Salesmanship Club Camp based in Dallas, Texas and founded by Campbell Loughmiller in 1946. His philosophy of adventure in therapy included the theory that the \"…perception of danger and immediate natural consequences for [a] lack of cooperation on the part of [participants]…[after confronting danger] built self-esteem, [while] suffering natural consequences taught the real need for cooperation.\" These ideas informed some adventure therapy programs\n\nThis period also saw the creation of Outward Bound in the 1940s by Kurt Hahn. Outward Bound was a direct response to Lawrence Holt, part owner of the Blue Funnel Shipping Company, who was looking for a training program for young sailors who seemed to have lost the tenacity and fortitude needed to survive the rigors of war and shipwreck, unlike older sailors who, because of their formative experiences on sailing ships, were more likely to survive. In this way Outward Bound was engaging in a form of adventure therapy – intervening in the lack of tenacity through the use of challenging adventure training.\n\nIn the 1960s Outward Bound came to the United States through the Outward Bound school in Colorado Outward Bound programs in Colorado and other schools quickly began to use Outward bound as an adjunctive experience work with adjudicated youth and adults (one of the first programs in 1964 offered recently released prisoners a job at Coors Brewery if they completed a 23-day course). In the late 1970s Colorado Outward Bound developed the Mental Health Project. Courses were offered to adults dealing with substance abuse, mental illness, being a survivor of sexual assault and other issues. In 1980, Stephen Bacon wrote the seminal adventure therapy \"The Conscious Use of Metaphor in Outward Bound\" which linked the work of Milton Erickson and Carl Jung to the Outward Bound process.\n\nProject Adventure adapted the Outward Bound philosophy for school environments and used ropes course activities developed at the Colorado Outward Bound School into use at schools. Project Adventure staff including Karl Rohnke are credited with developing many of the cooperative games, problem solving initiatives, trust activities, low elements, and high elements. Project Adventure emerged in Hamilton-Wenham High School in Massachusetts in 1972 with a principal named Jerry Pieh, son of Robert Pieh founder of the Minnesota Outward Bound School. Jerry Peih wanted to bring the concepts behind the Outward Bound schools, developing self-esteem and self-confidence through mentally and physically straining and stressful situations, to classrooms. Project Adventure programs were often used at part of the health curriculum in physical education programs.\n\nEventually Paul Radcliffe, a Project Adventure trained facilitator and school psychologist, Mary Smithy a Project Adventure staff member along with a social worker from Addison Gilbert Hospital, started a 2-hour weekly outpatient group. Eventually this model was incorporated into school psychological services and was called the Learning Activities Group. This later grew into Adventure-Based Counseling (ABC), a Project Adventure term that reflects the therapeutic use of adventure activities.\n\nAdventure therapy theory draws from a mixture of learning and psychological theories. The learning theories include contributions from Albert Bandura, John Dewey, Kurt Hahn, and Kurt Lewin. These theorists also have been credited with contributing to the main theories comprising experiential education. Experiential education is a theoretical component of adventure therapy. The ideas and thinking of Alfred Adler, Albert Ellis, Milton Erickson, William Glasser, Carl Jung, Abraham Maslow, Jean Piaget, Carl Rogers, B.F. Skinner, Fritz Perls, and Viktor Frankl all appear to have contributed to the thinking in adventure therapy. Adventure therapy is a cognitive-behavioral-affective approach which utilizes a humanistic existential base to strategically enact change through direct experience through challenge.\n\nThis theory, though, has been questioned extensively. Most research on adventure therapy as a therapeutic intervention has focused on aspects of cooperation and trust, and less research examines therapeutic techniques with adventure therapy or outcomes on pathology. Further research on the standards, requirements, education, and training for individuals conducting adventure therapy is required. The research is based upon the examination of self-concept and social adjustments. In a meta-analysis study to statistically integrate all the available empirical research on adventure therapy, 99 studies were found covering a 25-year span. Out of the 99 studies located, only 43 studies fit the criteria for analysis. Many of the studies excluded were dissertations and the authors stated that dissertation studies did not accurately represent the field of adventure programming. The 43 studies used varied in design, methods, and treatment goals. They report that the limited amount of studies for their meta-analysis is proof of the limitations in the research in adventure programming.\n\nThe major theme of these questions about adventure therapy is effectiveness. A group has emerged arguing that before any other question in adventure therapy can be answered the question what are the properties that influence the effectiveness of adventure therapy must be answered. This group argues that theory driven research instead of outcome driven research will answer this question. Outcome driven research means that outcomes are the source of explanations for AT theoretical structure. Outcome driven research has generated many conflicting findings that confuse theoretical structure and explanations of effectiveness. The outcomes in adventure therapy research are linked to existing psychological theories of change to explain, modify, or validate AT theory. The theories of change have upwards of 400 forms of therapy and related practices that have emerged from a conglomeration of psychological theories. When outcomes are tied to existing psychological theories within the 400 forms of therapy it is impossible to understand the underlying influences of AT.\n\nWith all the research to date and the numerous reports of positive outcomes, there is still little understanding of the underlying processes influencing these positive outcomes. This has caused extensive discussion concerning why adventure therapy appears effective in treating a multitude of DSM related mental disorders in children, adolescents, and adults. Several researchers have attempted to explain the underlying process to adventure therapy.\n\nAdventure therapy is described as non-traditional therapy allowing for the pre-therapeutic adolescent to experience their mental health issues, with several theoretical aspects: 1) it is a physical augmentation to traditional therapy for the purpose of a shared history with the participants and the therapist, 2) there is a sense of natural and logical consequences in the activities, 3) environment should be structured into the activities, 4) a participant perceives risk, stress, and anxiety so that they can problem solve and generate their own sense of community for feedback and behavior modeling, 5) participants will transfer their present attitudes and behaviors into the activities, 6) works with a small group of participants, and 7) requires a facilitator that models appropriate behaviors and guides the group towards adaptive self-regulation that is based upon appropriate behaviors.\n\nAdventure therapy has normalizing effects on deficits in delinquent adolescent's developmental process, as a process of moving into formal operational thinking which is achieved through the experiential learning theories. A therapist holds the skills to make the adventure experience a therapy. The theoretical basis of adventure therapy describes the participant as a learning being who achieves their greatest learning outside the classroom, through challenge and perceived risk, promoting social skills through experiencing a group challenge mixed with affect, cognition, psychomotor activity and formal operational thinking generated through metaphor. Experiential learning becomes adventure therapy when the activities are planned and implemented as vehicles for patients to address individual treatment goals. Adventure experiences molded into a more therapeutic group model ran by the therapist can have a more significant effect than the one-day intervention run by counselors. It is important to have the clinician as an integral part of the adventure therapy process so that there can be a strong transference of the adventure experience to other aspects of the therapeutic process.\n\nBaldwin, Persing, and Magnuson, though, report that many of these explanations are \"…folk pedagogies…\" that lack thorough empirical evidence. Adventure therapy research has focused on outcomes without exploring theoretical structure. Some argue that the focus of AT research needs should be on testing and validating theoretical structure, and that discussion of outcomes should only come after a theoretical structure has been validated.\n\nAlthough some questions remain regarding the efficacy of adventure therapy, existing research suggests that adventure therapy is an effective modality for treatment. For example, a meta-analytic review of 197 studies of adventure therapy participant outcomes (2,908 effect sizes, 206 unique samples) found that the short-term effect size for adventure therapy was moderate (\"Hedges' g\" = .47) and larger than for alternative (.14) and no treatment (.08) comparison groups. There was little change during the lead-up (.09) and follow-up periods (.03) for adventure therapy, indicating long-term maintenance of the short-term gains.\n\nA meta-analysis of 26 studies of psychological intervention programs for youth-at-risk which used a version of the Youth Outcomes Questionnaire found very large positive effect sizes for wilderness-based programs according to observers (\"g\" = 1.38) which was larger than the changes according to observers for non-wilderness programs (\"g\" = 0.74). Participants self-report results large effects for wilderness-based programs (\"g\" = 0.72) and larger effects for non-wilderness programs (\"g\" = 0.89).\n\nA meta-analysis of 36 studies of private-pay wilderness therapy programs found moderate effect sizes of approximately half a standard deviation (~0.50) across six outcome categories (self-esteem (\"g\" = 0.49), locus of control (\"g\" = 0.55), behavioral observations (\"g\" = 0.75), personal effectiveness (\"g\" = 0.46), clinical measures (\"g\" = 0.50) and interpersonal measures (\"g\" = 0.54), with some moderator effects that varied across outcome types.\n\nA study of the effects of adventure therapy on 266 high risk youth in rural areas reported lasting improvement in behavior over a six-month period. Another study on adventure therapy effectiveness reports that adventure therapy is effective because specifically designed activities can bring about specific outcomes.\n\nAdventure therapy is further viewed as effective because of the apparent positive effects in treating developmental issues with juvenile offenders and adolescent offenders with drug abuse and addiction issues. The effectiveness of adventure therapy with offenders with drug abuse and addiction issues in mental health treatment is related to the characteristics present in addicted offenders. They \"…(1) need more structure, [and] (2) they work better with an informal, tactile-kinesthetic design….\" Adventure therapy as treatment is equally effective for adjudicated youth and other adolescent populations. 62% of adolescents who participated in an adventure therapy group are at an advantage for coping with adolescent issues than adolescents that did not. There is a 12% improvement in self-concept for adolescents who participate in adventure therapy. Adolescents are approximately 30% better off in their ability to cope with mental health issues than those that do not participate in a psychotherapeutic treatment making the implication that adventure therapy effectiveness is comparable to the effectiveness of psychotherapeutic treatment.\n\nThe concepts contributing to adventure therapy effectiveness are: increases in self-esteem, self-concept, self efficacy, self perceptions, problem solving, locus of control, behavioral and cognitive development, decreases in depression, decrease in conduct disordered behaviors, overall positive behavioral changes, improved attitude, and that adventure therapy generates a sense of individual reward. Further aspects that contribute to adventure therapy's effectiveness are that it: increases group cohesion, aids in diagnosing conduct disorders in adolescents, improves psychosocial related difficulties, is effective in treating drug addicted and juvenile youth, treats sensation seeking behaviors, improves clinical functioning, facilitates connecting participants with their therapist and treatment issues, and increases interpersonal relatedness.\n\nWhen comparing the reduction in recidivism rates with traditional programs and programs with adventure therapy, programs using adventure therapy have lower recidivism. There is an increases in interpersonal relatedness, which has been described as the most important factor for improving mental health issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35887987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35887987", "title": "Alibi-ya", "text": "Alibi-ya\n\nAn is a kind of business in Japan that creates an identity viewed as socially respectable for peoples involved in occupations viewed as shameful, typically identities for women involved in the sex industry. The fictitious identity is created to conceal the person's actual from her family, and potential spouses. Services provided by alibi-ya range from simply a phone answering services at a non-existent employer to arrangements for a boss to give a speech at the client's wedding praising her work at the non-existent company. Though the business is not illegal of itself, alibi-ya came to attention in 2011 when fake documents issued by an alibi-ya were used to illegally obtain bank loans.\n\n\"Alibi-ya\" is a combination of the English world \"alibi\" and the Japanese \"ya\", meaning \"shop\" or \"seller\". It is also written in Japanese as , meaning \"alibi \".\n"}
{"id": "248049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248049", "title": "Allen B. DuMont", "text": "Allen B. DuMont\n\nAllen Balcom DuMont, also spelled Du Mont, (January 29, 1901 – November 14, 1965) was an American electronics engineer, scientist and inventor best known for improvements to the cathode ray tube in 1931 for use in television receivers. Seven years later he manufactured and sold the first commercially practical television set to the public. In June 1938, his Model 180 television receiver was the first all-electronic television set ever sold to the public, a few months prior to RCA's first set in April 1939. In 1946, DuMont founded the first television network to be licensed, the DuMont Television Network, initially by linking station WABD (named for DuMont) in New York City to station W3XWT, which later became WTTG, in Washington, D.C. (WTTG was named for Dr. Thomas T. Goldsmith, DuMont's Vice President of Research, and his best friend.) DuMont's successes in television picture tubes, TV sets and components and his involvement in commercial TV broadcasting made him the first millionaire in the business.\n\nDuMont was born in Brooklyn, New York City. At the age of 10, he was stricken with polio and was quarantined at his family's Eastern Parkway apartment for nearly a year. During his quarantine, his father brought home books and magazines for the young DuMont to read while bedridden. At this time, DuMont developed an interest in science, specifically wireless radio communication, and taught himself Morse code.\n\nHis father bought him a crystal radio receiver, which he assembled, took apart, reassembled and rebuilt several times. He improved his set each time he rebuilt it and later built a transmitter, while his father obtained the landlord's permission to erect a transceiving antenna on the roof.\n\nWhile recuperating from polio, DuMont was advised to swim to regain the use of his legs. In 1914, the family moved to Montclair, New Jersey, where there was an indoor year-round pool available at the local YMCA. He graduated from Montclair High School in 1919, and went to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York, where he was part of the Alpha Chapter of the Theta Xi Fraternity.\n\nIn 1915, DuMont became the youngest American to obtain a first class commercial radio operator's license at age 14. The following summer, he worked as a radio operator aboard a coastal steamer making runs from New York to Providence, Rhode Island. As the summers went by, he made his way to the Caribbean, South America and, after World War I, to Europe, where, during the summer of 1922, he was stuck in Copenhagen for months because of a dock workers' strike.\n\nAfter graduating from Rensselaer in 1924, DuMont worked at the Westinghouse Lamp Company in Bloomfield, New Jersey, in charge of radio tube production. While there, he increased production from 500 tubes per day to an astounding 50,000 tubes per day. Management decided to give him a $500 bonus, a small raise, and the \"Westinghouse Award\", an award devised to recognize his accomplishments. The \"Westinghouse Award\" was later presented as a scholarship award to high school seniors showing promise in a field of science (and continues to this day as the Intel Science Talent Search).\n\nBy 1928, DuMont was searching for new opportunities and was wooed by Dr. Lee De Forest, a radio pioneer who developed the audion tube, the original voice amplifier for radio reception. De Forest had a checkered career as an inventor and had several failed business ventures. DuMont was hired as vice president and production manager for radio tubes. He revamped the factory with newly designed machinery: \"a high speed sealing machine, automatic grid winding and welding machine, base branding machine, basing and wire cutting machine, high-frequency bombarder and numerous tube-characteristic test sets and life racks.\" Factory capacity was increased to 30,000 tubes per day.\n\nWhen De Forest took over the mechanical television system of C. Francis Jenkins, DuMont turned his attention to television. He was involved in the first television transmissions from W2XCD in Passaic. But DuMont realized that clear images would need the development of scanning in a cathode ray tube. DuMont worked to improve television transmission and reception and went to De Forest asking for funds to build a long-lasting cathode ray tube for television reception. De Forest denied DuMont's request as De Forest's investors were demanding better returns. Subsequently, DuMont resigned at the same time that De Forest sold his radio manufacturing business to David Sarnoff at RCA.\n\nDuMont had developed an improved version of the cathode ray tube which was both cheaper to produce and was longer-lasting than the German tubes used at that time; the imported tubes had a life of 25 to 30 hours. DuMont's invention of the first long-lasting cathode ray tube would later make commercially viable television possible. He started his own company, DuMont Laboratories, in the basement of his Upper Montclair home, building long-lasting cathode ray tubes. In 1931, he sold two tubes to two college science laboratories for $35 each.\n\nSince DuMont was a leader in cathode ray tube or CRT design and manufacturing, it was a natural step to use the CRT as a visual measuring instrument or oscilloscope. The production of CRT's and oscilloscopes was part of DuMont Laboratories located in Upper Montclair, NJ. Needing more space he moved to a larger location in Passaic, NJ in 1934. Although not the inventor of the oscilloscope, DuMont designed and mass-produced practical oscilloscopes (he called them oscillographs) for all types of laboratory, automotive/equipment servicing and manufacturing applications. By the 1940s DuMont was the leader in the oscilloscope equipment market. DuMont was one of the earliest designers of the trigger sweep oscilloscope using a gas thyratron vacuum tube (forerunner to the silicon controlled rectifier or SCR). This allowed the oscilloscope to show a visual trace at a preset input signal level. In addition the sweep (trace across the CRT screen) could be regulated by the sweep speed or sweep frequency. This design allowed the oscilloscope to provide better visual detail of the measurement being studied. The trigger was a frequency synchronizing type which provided stability in viewing.\n\nThe profits from the oscillographs helped him invest in television design and his DuMont TV Network. Unfortunately the time spent on his TV ventures proved to be the end of his profitable oscillograph business. In 1947 a young equipment manufacturer called Tektronix produced the model 511 Time Base Trigger and Sweep Oscilloscope for $795. The use of time instead of frequency to measure a sweep across the CRT was Tektronix's big selling point. Time measurements are easier to interpret pulses and complex waveforms. It has been mentioned informally that Allen DuMont saw the model 511 demonstrated at an electronics show. He tried it and was impressed, but commented to Howard Vollum and Jack Murdock, co-founders of Tektronix that it was too expensive and they would be lucky to sell any. Tektronix's time base trigger and time sweep generator design would become the standard in the 1950s and into the 21st century. Tektronix would replace DuMont Oscillographs as the leading selling oscilloscope brand.\n\nWhen Fairchild Camera and Instrument acquired DuMont Laboratories in 1960, oscilloscopes were still being made with the DuMont name brand. Allen DuMont became Group General Manager of the DuMont Division, until his death in 1965. All DuMont oscilloscopes in the late 1950s and after the Fairchild acquisition were using the time base trigger and time sweep generator method introduced by Tektronix. The DuMont line of oscilloscopes continued to be produced into the 1980s.\n\nDuring the early years of World War II, DuMont received special government contracts to provide large wide cathode ray tubes. These special tubes allowed scientists working on the Manhattan Project to study the action of accelerated electrons.\n\nIn 1932, DuMont proposed a \"ship finder\" device to the United States Army Signal Corps at Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, that used radio wave distortions to locate objects on a cathode ray tube screen, a type of radar. The military asked him, however, not to take out a patent for developing what they wanted to maintain as a secret, and so he is not often mentioned among those responsible for radar.\nIn 1932 DuMont invented the magic eye tube also known as the Electron Ray Tube, used as a tuning accessory in radios and as a level meter in mono and stereo home reel-to-reel tape recorders. In the 1930s the manufacture of mechanical panel meters were labor-intensive and expensive. Magic eye tubes provided radio designers with a less expensive and more profitable way to add a feature usually found in higher price equipment. The general public reception was a success as customers like the green glow and the seemingly magical way it worked. He released information on his invention the following year. He sold the patents and rights to RCA for $20,000 to help fund his other projects.\n\nDuMont produced black and white televisions in the late 1930s, 1940s and 1950s that were generally regarded as offering highest quality and durability. Many of these premium sets included a built in AM/FM radio and record player.\n\nDuMont sold his television manufacturing division to Emerson Radio in 1958, and sold the remainder of the company to Fairchild Camera in 1960. Fairchild later developed semiconductor microchips. Robert Noyce, a co-founder of Intel, originally worked for DuMont as an engineer.\n\nThe DuMont Television Network was not an unqualified success, being faced with the major problem of how to make a profit without the benefit of an already established radio network as a base. After ten years, DuMont shuttered the network and sold what remained of his television operations to John Kluge in 1956, which Kluge renamed Metromedia. DuMont's partner, Thomas T. Goldsmith (for whom the Washington, D.C. station WTTG was named), remained on Metromedia's board of directors from this time all the way until Kluge sold the stations to the Fox Television Stations Group.\n\nDuMont was the first to provide funding for educational television broadcasting. He was the recipient of numerous honorary degrees and awards, among them the Cross of Knight awarded by the French Government, the Horatio Alger Award, the Westinghouse Award, and the DeForest Medal. He is also a holder of over 30 patents in cathode ray tubes and other television equipment.\n\nDuMont enjoyed sailing. He owned a cruiser, the \"Hurricane III\". He would participate in boat races and compete in navigation skills competition, winning three national championships. He died in 1965 and is buried in Mount Hebron Cemetery in Montclair, New Jersey. He was survived by his wife Ethel and their two children, Allen Jr. and Yvonne. The television center at Montclair State University bears his name and produces programs for the NJTV system (formerly New Jersey Network).\n\n"}
{"id": "3646843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3646843", "title": "Asynchronous serial interface", "text": "Asynchronous serial interface\n\nAsynchronous Serial Interface, or ASI, is a method of carrying an MPEG Transport Stream (MPEG-TS) over 75-ohm copper coaxial cable or multimode optical fiber. It is popular in the television industry as a means of transporting broadcast programs from the studio to the final transmission equipment before it reaches viewers sitting at home. \n\nThe ASI standard is maintained by CENELEC, the European Committe for Electrotechnical Standardization, and is part of the collection of standards known as Digital Video Broadcast, or DVB.\n\nASI carries MPEG data serially as a continuous stream with a constant rate at or less than 270 megabits per second, depending on the application. It cannot run faster than this, which is the same rate as SDI\nand also the rate of a DS4 telecommunications circuit which is typically used to transport the stream over commercial telephone/telecommunications digital circuits (Telco).\nThe MPEG data bits are encoded using a technique called 8B/10B which stands for 8-bit bytes mapped to 10-bit character codes. Encoding maintains DC balance and makes it possible for the receiving end to stay synchronized. \nWhen on 75-ohm coaxial cable, ASI is terminated with BNC male connectors on each end. Electrically, the coaxial standard specifies an output voltage of 800 millivolts peak-to-peak, while the receiver must be able to operate from a voltage anywhere from 200 mV to 880 mV. ASI is electrically identical to and has the same bit rate as standard definition SDI. \nWhen ASI is on optical fiber, it is multimode fiber. \n\nThere are two data transmission packet sizes commonly seen by the ASI interface and the cable carrying it: the packet and the packet, the fundamental building blocks of the MPEG Transport Stream.\nThe 188 byte format is by far the most common packet size, used by the vast majority of transmissions. When optional Reed–Solomon error correction data are included, a format primarily developed by Cable Television industry, the packet grows an extra 16 bytes to 204 bytes total. \n\nASI has one purpose only: the transmission of an MPEG Transport Stream (MPEG-TS), \nIt is usually made up of one or more television channels with accompanying audio, sometimes with additional audio-only or data transmission channels. When that composite data transmission path, asynchronous but formatted data, travels through space as RF, it is usually called DVB-S, DVB-T, or ATSC. But when carried on coaxial cable, unmodulated, it is called an ASI signal.\n\nIt is a one-way transmission, similar to RS-232 asynchronous data—a stream of raw but formatted zeros and ones—designed to primarily travel through coaxial cable at speeds that range from 6-200 megabits per second. Though 270 megabits per second is the rate of the underlying available bandwidth, Transport Streams, and therefore ASI transmissions, usually top out at around 200 megabits per second.\n\nA Transport Stream, and thereby ASI when over coax, can carry one or multiple SD, HD or audio programs that are already compressed, as opposed to an uncompressed SD-SDI () or HD-SDI (). An ASI signal can be at varying transmission speeds and is completely dependent on the user's engineering requirements. For example, an ATSC (US digital standard for broadcasting) has a specific bit rate of . Null characters, represented by the ASCII comma, are used to pad the transmission to that rate should the media itself not require the entire bitstream.\n\nGenerally, the ASI signal is the final product of video and audio compression for distant delivery, internal distribution, or broadcast to the public, as is today's digital television and cable.. Though it is codec agnostic and can carry any kind or data, It most often carries MPEG2 (H.262 video with MPEG-1 Layer II audio) or MPEG4 (H.264 video with MPEG-4 Part 14 audio), ready for transmission to a television or radio broadcast transmitter, microwave system or other device. Sometimes it is also converted to fiber, RF or the \"SMPTE 310\" format: (a synchronous version of ASI developed by Harris specifically for the 19+ megabit per second ATSC-transmitter input feed).\n\nBy far, in the television industry the term ASI refers to its use on coaxial cable, not optical fiber, and even though the standard itself also maintains its use on fiber, whenever ASI is mentioned the meaning is almost always coaxial cable. \nASI is also sometimes referred to as DVB-ASI or TS-ASI. \n\n"}
{"id": "553720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=553720", "title": "Australian Communications and Media Authority", "text": "Australian Communications and Media Authority\n\nThe Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) is an Australian Government statutory authority within the Communications portfolio. ACMA was formed on 1 July 2005 with the merger of the Australian Broadcasting Authority and the Australian Communications Authority.\n\nACMA is responsible for ensuring media and communications works for all Australians. It does this through various legislation, regulations, standards and codes of practice. ACMA is a 'converged' regulator, created to oversee the convergence of the four 'worlds' of telecommunications, broadcasting, radio communications and the internet.\n\nACMA is an independent agency composed of the Chairman, Deputy Chair and two part-time Members, and managed by an executive team comprising the Chairman (who is also the Chief Executive Officer of the agency), the Deputy Chair, four general managers and nine executive managers. The corporate structure comprises four divisions – Communications Infrastructure, Content, Consumer and Citizen, Corporate and Research, and Legal Services.\n\nACMA has responsibilities under four principal Acts – the Broadcasting Services Act 1992, the Telecommunications Act 1997, the Telecommunications (Consumer Protection and Service Standards) Act 1999 and the Radiocommunications Act 1992. There are another 22 Acts to which the agency responds in such areas as spam, the Do Not Call Register and interactive gambling. The ACMA also creates and administers more than 523 legislative instruments including radiocommunications, spam and telecommunications regulations; and licence area plans for free-to-air broadcasters.\n\nACMA collects revenue on behalf of the Australian Government through broadcasting, radiocommunications and telecommunications taxes, charges and licence fees. It also collects revenue from price-based allocation of spectrum.\n\nACMA's main offices are located in Canberra, Melbourne and Sydney.\n\nCommunications convergence is the merging of the previously distinct services by which information is communicated – telephone, television (free-to-air and subscription) radio and newspapers – over digital platforms. ACMA also works with industry and citizens to solve new concerns and mitigate risks arising in the evolving networked society and information economy, recognising that Australians are interacting with digital communications and content in changing ways. Not only does ACMA address a wide and disparate range of responsibilities, it does so against a backdrop of rapid and disruptive change.\n\nMany of the controls on the production and distribution of content and the provision of telecommunications services through licensing or other subsidiary arrangements, or by standards and codes (whether co-regulatory or self-regulatory) are subject to revision and adaptation to the networked society and information economy. Moreover, there are new platforms, applications, business models, value chains and forms of social interaction available with more to come in what is a dynamic, innovative environment. Other challenges for regulators include cross-jurisdictional issues and the need for engagement and collaboration with stakeholders locally, regionally and internationally. The ACMA's response to these pressures is to remain constantly relevant by delivering on its mandated outcomes and its statutory obligations, and by transforming itself into a resilient, e-facing, learning organisation, responsive to the numerous pressures for change that confront it.\n\nACMA has developed a 'converged communications regulator' framework which seeks to bring to the global discussion a 'common ground' which can capture the fundamental tasks any regulator in a convergent environment will engage with to deliver outcomes in the public interest. The four cornerstone parts to the framework, each divided into two sub-streams, are outlined below along with the main functions of ACMA under each task.\n\nBridging to the future – active engagement with the currents of change and proactive development of responses through thought leadership and regulatory development:\nTransforming the agency – adapting the organisation to the changing world of convergence by ensuring a structural fit with convergence and a focus on agency innovation:\nMajor program delivery – undertaking major development work or program implementation through resource and program management with fully effective corporate governance:\nEffective regulation – doing the 'day job' of the regulatory agency with effective and efficient regulatory administration and operations coupled with extensive stakeholder engagement:\n\nThe Convergence Review Committee set up by the Government in 2011 was independent of the ACMA and its final report in 2012 suggested the ACMA be replaced with a new regulator to implement a different approach to regulation. These changes were not enacted by the Labour Government and the new Coalition Government has not made major decisions on the future of the ACMA.\n\nThe ACMA administers a complaints mechanism for Australian residents and law enforcement agencies to report prohibited online content, including child sexual abuse material. Within the scheme, which operates under Schedules 5 and 7 of the \"Broadcasting Services Act 1992\", content is assessed with reference to the same criteria within the National Classification Scheme that applies to films and computer games in Australia.\n\nThe ACMA Hotline is one of a global network of international bodies within INHOPE – the International Association of Internet Hotlines that exchange information on child abuse images, pinpointing the hosting countries to help eradicate them from the web. INHOPE consists of 44 members in 38 countries, with members including the Internet Watch Foundation (UK), the National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC), Cybertip (Canada), Friendly Runet Foundation (Russian Federation) and the Internet Hotline Center Japan.\n\nIf prohibited online content is found in Australia, it is issued with a take-down notice after being formally classified; if it is hosted overseas it is notified to optional end-user Family Friendly Filters that are accredited by industry through the Internet Industry Association (these are available at cost from ISPs). All potentially illegal content is reported by the ACMA to law enforcement in Australia, or, in the case of child sexual abuse material hosted overseas, through INHOPE for rapid police notification and take-down in the host country.\n\nThe ACMA publishes comprehensive statistics and information about the ACMA Hotline on its website. The majority of investigations the ACMA conducts concern online child sexual abuse material. Complaints to the ACMA Hotline are usually made via a webform on the ACMA's website.\n\nPopularly held misconceptions about the ACMA's regulatory role include that it investigates and takes action on whole websites (it investigates specific URLs, images or files) and that the ACMA causes blocking of content at an ISP level (it notifies overseas hosted content to optional end-user filters).\n\nIn February 2013, the ACMA and Australian Federal Police announced a new agreement for sharing of information about serious child abuse material, including an arrangement whereby the ACMA can report content through INHOPE based on where content may be produced, as well as where it is hosted\n\nDuring National Child Protection Week 2013, the ACMA Hotline conducted 418 investigations involving over 4,700 images of abused children to Australian police agencies or through the INHOPE international network for action overseas During the week, the ACMA announced it is now working more closely with CrimeStoppers in Australia to make it easier to report illegal online content.\n\nThe ACMA's online role is not connected to ISP blocking 'worst of the worst' child abuse material, which was operated by ISPs and the Australian Federal Police. In July 2015, this function moved to the Office of the Children's eSafety Commissioner.\n\nACMA operates Australia's Do Not Call Register, which is a scheme to reduce unsolicited telemarketing calls and marketing faxes to individuals who have indicated they do not want to receive such calls by registering their private and domestic telephone (including mobile) and fax numbers on the Register. The scheme has been in operation since May 2007. Since mid-2013, Salmat has managed the Register on behalf of ACMA.\n\nACMA is responsible for enforcing the \"Spam Act 2003\" which prohibits the sending of unsolicited commercial electronic messages with an Australian link. A message has an Australian link if it originates, or was authorised, in Australia, or if the message was accessed in Australia. Anyone who sends commercial email, SMS, or instant messages must ensure that the message is sent with consent, contains sender identification and contact information and includes a functional unsubscribe facility. Some exemptions apply.\n\nMembers of the public are able to make complaints and reports about commercial electronic messages to ACMA which may conduct formal investigations and take enforcement actions.\n\nThe ACMA developed the Australian Internet Security Initiative (AISI) to help address the problem of computers being compromised by the surreptitious installation of malicious software. 'Malware' enables a computer to be controlled remotely for illegal and harmful activities without the owner's knowledge.\n\nWhat malware can do is limited to the creator's imagination, but includes:\n\nThe AISI collects data from various sources on computers exhibiting 'bot' behaviour in the Australian internet space. Using this data, the ACMA provides daily reports to internet service providers (ISPs) identifying IP addresses on their networks that have generally been supplied to the ACMA in the previous 24-hour period. ISPs can then inform the customer associated with that IP address that their computer appears to be compromised and provide advice on how they can fix it. The ACMA does not know who the user of an IP address is, so the ISP is a critical link in the process of customer notification.\n\nSince January 2000, internet content considered offensive or illegal has been subject to a statutory scheme administered by the ACMA.\n\nEstablished under Schedule 5 to the Broadcasting Services Act 1992, the online content scheme evolved from a tradition of Australian content regulation in broadcasting and other entertainment media. This tradition embodies the principle that – while adults should be free to see, hear and read what they want – children should be protected from material that may be unsuitable for (or harmful to) them, and everyone should be protected from material that is highly offensive.\n\nThe online content scheme seeks to achieve these objectives by a number of means such as complaint investigation processes, government and industry collaboration, and community awareness and empowerment. While administration of the scheme is the responsibility of the ACMA, the principle of 'co-regulation' underpinning the scheme reflects parliament's intention that government, industry and the community each plays a role in managing internet safety issues in Australia. The ACMA has a significant cyber safety education program called CyberSmart which provides resources for youth, parents and teachers.\n\nSome people strongly disagree with this approach. They say the Australian constitution does not clearly provide either the states or the Federal Government power to censor online content, so internet censorship in Australia is typically an amalgam of various plans, laws, acts and policies. The regulator has been criticised for its role in examining internet censorship in Australia and how it is enabled and might further be enabled. Particular criticism has been leveled at the regulator's technical understanding of what is involved overall in internet regulation and censorship.\n\nOn 10 March 2009, the ACMA issued the Australian web-hosting company, Bulletproof Networks, with an \"interim link-deletion notice\" due to its customer, the Whirlpool internet community website, not deleting a link to a page on an anti-abortion web site. The web page, which is the 6th of a series of pages featuring images of aborted babies, had been submitted to the ACMA, who determined it was potential prohibited content, by the user whose post on Whirlpool containing the ACMA's reply was later subject to the link-deletion notice. This came with an A$11,000 per day fine if the take down was not actioned after 24 hours. In order for other URLs contained on the same website to be 'prohibited', a separate complaint would need to be submitted and reviewed by the ACMA.\n\nAs indicated above (the issuance) of an \"interim link-deletion notice\" is a consumer and business protection mechanism that ACMA has the authority to issue to a media or telecommunications provider, as required by the Telecommunications Act 1997, section 110 despite providers adopting it voluntarily or not – through the Communications Alliance process. This gives ACMA access to consumer personal details such as name, phone number, address and other details. It is not known thoroughly for which purpose this information is required, protected and used (Citation needed) by other governmental departments and law enforcement agencies.\n\nOn 19 March 2009 it was reported that the ACMA's blacklist of banned sites had been leaked online, and had been published by WikiLeaks. Julian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks, obtained the blacklist after the ACMA blocked several WikiLeaks pages following their publication of the Danish blacklist. Assange said that \"This week saw Australia joining China and the United Arab Emirates as the only countries censoring WikiLeaks.\" Three lists purporting to be from the ACMA were published online over a seven-day period.\n\nThe leaked list, which was reported to have been obtained from a manufacturer of internet filtering software, contained 2395 sites. Approximately half of the sites on the list were not related to child pornography, and included online gambling sites, YouTube pages, gay, straight, and fetish pornography sites, Wikipedia entries, euthanasia sites, websites of fringe religions, Christian sites, and even the websites of a tour operator and a Queensland dentist. Colin Jacobs, spokesman for lobby group Electronic Frontiers Australia, said that there was no mechanism for a site operator to know they got onto the list or to request to be removed from it. Australia's Communications Minister, Stephen Conroy later blamed the addition of the dentist's website to the blacklist on the \"Russian mob\".\n\nAssociate professor Bjorn Landfeldt of the University of Sydney said that the leaked list \"constitutes a condensed encyclopedia of depravity and potentially very dangerous material\". Stephen Conroy said the list was not the real blacklist and described its leak and publication as \"grossly irresponsible\" and that it undermined efforts to improve \"cyber safety\". He said that ACMA was investigating the incident and considering a range of possible actions including referral to the Australian Federal Police, and that Australians involved in making the content available would be at \"serious risk of criminal prosecution\".\n\nConroy initially denied that the list published on WikiLeaks and the ACMA blacklist were the same, saying \"This is not the ACMA blacklist.\" He stated that the leaked list was alleged to be current on 6 August 2008 and contained 2,400 URLs, where the ACMA blacklist for the same date contained 1,061 URLs. He added that the ACMA advised that there were URLs on the leaked list that had never been the subject of a complaint or ACMA investigation, and had never been included on the ACMA blacklist. He was backed up by ISP Tech 2U, one of six ISPs involved in filtering technology trials.\n\nConroy's denial was called into doubt by the Internet Industry Association (IIA), who publicly condemned the publishing of the list, chief executive Peter Coroneos saying, \"No reasonable person could countenance the publication of links which promote access to child abuse images, irrespective of their motivation, which in this case appears to be political.\"\n\nConroy later claimed the leaked blacklist published on WikiLeaks closely resembled the official blacklist, admitting that the latest list (dated 18 March) \"seemed to be close\" to ACMA's current blacklist.\n\nIn an estimates hearing of the Australian Federal Government on 25 May 2009 it was revealed that the leak was taken so seriously that it was referred to the Australian Federal Police for investigation. It was further stated that distribution of further updates to the list have been withheld until recipients can improve their security. Ms Nerida O'Laughlin of the ACMA confirmed that the list has been reviewed and as of 30 April consists of 997 URLs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51010298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51010298", "title": "Babylon FM", "text": "Babylon FM\n\nBabylon FM is a contemporary hit radio station located in Erbil, Iraq. The station is owned by Babylon Group and broadcasts from studios in the Babylon Media headquarters located in the city's Ankawa district. The station is the only all-English radio station in all of Iraq. The station is the official partner of American Top 40 show in the country.\n\nBabylon Group CEO Salwan Zaito launched Babylon FM in 2011, as an all-Jazz radio station, catering only to Erbil city. After one year of broadcasting, the station changed its format to hit music in September 2012 with Noor Matti joining the company. The station became to be known as the only all-English radio station in all of Iraq. The first all-English live show (Noor in the Morning) went on air October 15, 2012. In March 2013, British radio personal Angel B joined the morning show, along with the Dutch-Kurd Maze to create the Breakfast Club.\n\n2014 and 2015, the station quickly became popular within the expat community as well as the local youth population, as the Ipsos polls showed the station within top 20 for the first time in Erbil. The station expanded to broadcast in Duhok on 17 April 2015. Three months later, the station began to broadcast in Iraqi Kurdistan's second largest city, Slemani.\n\nAs Iraqi Kurdistan's expat community continued to become more diverse, the station began to broadcast 1-hour shows in different language, with Pierrick Bonno going on air in French for the first time in early 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "857516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=857516", "title": "Beyblade", "text": "Beyblade\n\nBeyblade, known in Japan as , is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Takao Aoki to promote sales of spinning tops called \"Beyblades.\" Originally serialized in \"CoroCoro Comic\" from September 1999 to July 2004, the individual chapters were collected and published in 14 \"tankōbon\" by Shogakukan. The series focuses on a group of kids who form teams with which they battle one another using Beyblades.\n\nThe manga is licensed for English language release in North America by Viz Media. An anime adaptation, also titled \"Beyblade\" and spanning 51 episodes, aired in Japan on TV Tokyo from January 8, 2001, to December 24, 2001. The second, \"Beyblade V-Force\", ran for another 51 episodes from January 7, 2002, until December 30, 2002. \"Beyblade G-Revolution\", the third and final adaptation, also spanned 52 episodes (the last two episodes were released together as a double-length special in Japan) and aired from January 6, 2003, until its conclusion on December 29, 2003. Hasbro Studios and Nelvana Limited licensed the anime for an English-language release. On November 30, 2018, Discotek Media licensed the anime for SD Blu-ray releases starting with Season 1 for a January 29, 2019 release. Takara Tomy developed the \"Beyblade\" toy line.\n\nA young man named Tyson (Takao Kinomiya) enters the Japan Regional Beyblade Qualifying Tournament, where he encounters Ray Kon (Rei Kon) and Kai Hiwatari. After defeating them, they organize a team, known as the Bladebreakers, along with Max Tate (Max Mizuhara). Kenny tags along as their manager. The Bladebreakers tour to China to register for the championships while confronting the White Tigers, Ray's former team. It is seen that Ray's old team holds a grudge against him for leaving them. Toward the end of the Chinese tournament, Ray and his ex-teammates make amends, and the Bladebreakers win the tournament.\n\nAfter this, Tyson and his friends arrive in the United States to fight the All Starz, who are coached by Max's mother. After winning the American League, the team finds itself stranded in Europe. They tour Europe and meet Oliver, Enrique, Johnny and Robert, who go by the name Majestics.\n\nThe Bladebreakers battle the Majestics and the Bladebreakers win the battle. They then go to Russia for the final tournament. In Russia, they meet Boris's team, of which Kai was also a member of in the past. Kai had forgotten about Boris and the training grounds where he had learned almost everything he knew about Beyblading. However, he soon regains his memory. He finds Black Dranzer, his dream Beyblade and decides to join the Demolition Boys team, aiming to be the best Beyblader. Tyson finds out and tries to convince Kai to return to the Bladebreakers, but Kai rejects him, throwing his old Beyblade, Dranzer, at Tyson's feet. Tyson keeps Dranzer with him and vows to bring Kai back. Soon, before the finals, Kai challenges the Bladebreakers to steal their Bit-Beasts and become most powerful Blader. However, only Tyson and Ray show up. Max is still at the airport, returning from where he was training with Tyson and Ray with his new Beyblade, Draciel. Just at the moment when Kai seems to take the bit-beasts of Tyson and Ray, Max comes and challenges Kai. Kai thinks that he could easily beat Draciel but he can't and soon Tyson uses Kai's own old Blade, Dranzer to beat the Black Dranzer and defeat Kai. Kai, shocked by the power of Dranzer, doesn't notice the ice beneath him cracking and falls into the frozen water below. Tyson, Ray, Max and Kenny rescue Kai. Realizing the power of friendship as well as the power of Dranzer, Kai returns to the Bladebreakers.\n\nIn the final match, Tyson battles Tala, winning the match and becoming a Beyblade World Champion for the first time.\n\nThe Bladebreakers have gone their separate ways. But when Team Psykick and the Saint Shields attack the Bladebreakers and try to steal their bit-beasts, the Bladebreakers reassemble to defeat the new enemies. Tyson's classmate Hilary Tachibana (Hiromi Tachibana) joins the Bladebreakers but takes time to learn that Beyblade isn't just the stupid game she thinks it is.\n\nIn an attempt to steal the four bit-beasts from the Bladebreakers, Team Psykick creates four cyber bitbeast copies of the Bladebreakers' bit-beasts and recruit four skilled bladers named Kane, Salima, Goki, and Jim. These teenagers were pure-hearted and innocent bladers with high ambitions, but the dark power of the cyborg bit-beasts gradually take over their minds and turn them evil. The first half of the second season ends with the Bladebreakers defeating Team Psykick. Tyson, Ray, Kai and Max battle Kane, Salima, Goki and Jim respectively and defeat them. After the cyborg beasts are destroyed Team Psykick come back to their normal selves and regain consciousness. The second half of Season 2 deals with the truth of why the Saint Shields and Team Psykick are after Bladebreakers' bit-beasts and about a rock that Max's mother found that contains bit-beasts, which is stolen by Team Psykick.\n\nThe Saint Shields' reason behind attempting to steal the bit-beasts is because they wish to seal them in a rock because they fear that the bit-beasts could get out of control like they did in the past. The Saint Shields battle the Bladebreakers and manage to seal off Ray's bit-beast Driger in a rock. Later Ray reclaims Driger and defeats all the Saint Shields in a team face-off. The Psykick's leader, Dr. Zagart, wants the bit-beasts to turn his android son Zeo (an exact replica of his son who died in an accident) into a real human.\n\nAfter defeating the Saint Shields, Tyson meets Zeo and befriends him without knowing that he is the son of Team Psykick's leader. Zeo is unaware that he is a cyborg and that his father is behind all of Team Psykick's plans. Later Zeo finds out about his past and decides to help his father in his plans. Dr. Zagart gives Zeo a bit beast named Cerberus, the strongest bit-beast sealed in the rock. Zeo enters the world Beyblade tournament with the motive of defeating all the Bladebreakers members and stealing their bit-beasts. In the tournament, Zeo defeats Kai and Max and steals their bit-beasts Dranzer and Draciel. But in the final battle Tyson and Dragoon (Tyson's bit-beast) defeat Zeo and Cerberus. In the process, Tyson and Max's team win the world tournament. Dranzer and Draciel come back to their original bladers, Kai and Max.\n\nKai, Ray, and Max left Tyson and went their separate ways to rejoin their old teams so that they have a chance to beat each other at the World Championship which has been re-designed with tag-teams of two. Max joins the PPB All Starz, Ray joins White Tiger X, and Kai joins the Blitzkrieg Boys. This leaves only Tyson, Hilary, and Kenny on the team. A new character, Daichi Sumeragi, and Tyson's brother, Hiro Granger, join them. The two other teams involved are the Barthez Battalion and F-Dynasty. One week after the results of the World Championships, Boris, the secondary villain from the first season, says things will return to the way they were before. But he declares that all the Beyblade shops must sell Beyblades and their parts to BEGA associated Beybladers only, otherwise they will not be allowed to run the shops.\n\nTyson and the team find some parts at Max's father's store, which are insufficient. Then after sometime Kenny comes with the solution, he makes a new type of Beyblades known as hard metal Beyblades, using a different type of parts. But they still needed one more blader, that's when Kai, who tried to join BEGA but lost severely to Brooklyn, disbanded the Blitzkrieg Boys and rejoined the team now known as the G Revolutions. Additionally during the BEGA qualifying matches Kai's former teammates, Spencer and Bryan of the Blitzkrieg Boys defeat a BEGA Training squad but lose easily to a mysterious blader known as Garland Siebald. Tala, the leader of the Blitzkrieg Boys who was previously the final boss in season 1, takes on Garland but lost the match and was seriously injured after Garland activated his attack, Radiant Thunder and ended the match. Daichi and Ray lose the first two matches to Ming-Ming and Crusher only proving that their hard metal blades were also no match for their powerful blades. Max ends the third match with Mystel in a draw. Then it is Kai's turn to face the unbeaten Brooklyn. Kai defeats Brooklyn in a match. Then Tyson beats Garland. Brooklyn becomes insane due to his loss to Kai and confronts Tyson. In the ensuing match, Tyson and Brooklyn battle it out in the tie-breaker match. As the final fight rages on, Tyson is able to absorb the powers of every single bit-beast and with a final attack defeats Brooklyn's, Beyblade Zeus. And the BEGA corporation had fallen thanks to the efforts of the Bladebreakers (G-Revolutions). The episode ends with Tyson and Kai to have one final match.\n\nIn the Japanese version, the episode ends with a special ending showing every major character from the series.\n\nTyson and Kai battle one last time before Kai goes to London with Tyson releasing his storm but that didn't work on Kai and the match ends with Tyson being defeated. Meanwhile, Ray wins a regional tournament but isn't happy that Tyson hasn't participated.\n\nKai returns to Japan after completing his studies. Tyson comes to know about this and tries to meet Kai, but when he reaches there he finds that Kai has left beyblading and is now controlling his grandfather's company. Tyson is shocked to hear this. He understands that Kai is abandoning his passion just to keep his grandpa, Voltaire's will. Tyson makes Kai understand and listen to his inner voice. Voltaire at last understands his mistake and allows Kai to carry on his journey. Tyson challenges Kai for a beybattle. Kai is about to be defeated when he uses his beyblading skills and defeats Tyson. Tyson and others are shocked but he is glad to find his friend back to action.\n\nThe chapters of the \"Beyblade\" manga were written and illustrated by Takao Aoki. It was serialized in CoroCoro Comic from 2000 to 2004. The manga was licensed for an English-language release by Viz Media.\n\nIn 2016 Takao Aoki released a sequel manga to G-Revolution called 'Beyblade: Rising' featuring the original characters, which is currently ongoing. There are currently four volumes, with the fifth being released in Japan in September 2017.\n\nA three-season anime television adaptation was adapted from the series. The first season, spanning 51 episodes, was produced by Madhouse and aired in Japan on TV Tokyo from January 8, 2001, to December 24, 2001. The second season, produced by Nihon Animedia and titled \"Beyblade V-Force\", ran for another 51 episodes from January 7, 2002, until December 30, 2002. The third season, \"Beyblade G-Revolution\" was also produced by Nihon Animedia. It spanned 52 episodes and ran from January 6, 2003, until its conclusion on December 29, 2003. All three seasons are licensed for English adaptation, broadcast, and release in North America by Nelvana, it aired on FOX Kids, But it got cancelled to make way for FoxBox TV, then it was broadcast on ABC Family's unnamed pre-JETIX-era action-oriented programming kids' morning block in 2002. It also aired on Toon Disney's action late-night/primetime children's programming block, JETIX in 2004 until 2009.\n\nAnother \"Beyblade\" anime series entitled \"Metal Fight Beyblade\" was produced by Tatsunoko and SynergySP, and is based on the aforementioned Metal Fight Beyblade manga. It premiered on April 5, 2009. Nelvana has licensed the series, which was released in North America as \"Beyblade: Metal Fusion\". It premiered on Cartoon Network in June 2010 with showings on Saturdays and Sundays, and has lasted four seasons, including Metal Fusion, Metal Masters, Metal Fury, and Shogun Steel.\n\nA new Beyblade series is undergoing release named \"Beyblade Burst\".\n\n\"Beyblade\" inspired two spin-off series: \"BeyWheelz\" and \"\".\n\nTwo theatrical films based on the Beyblade series were produced: \"\" was released in 2004 and \"\" was released in 2010.\n\nIn May 2015, \"Deadline Hollywood\" announced that Paramount Pictures had acquired the rights to turn it into a live action film after the success of \"Transformers\" and \"G.I. Joe\" all of which are owned by Hasbro and released through Paramount. The film will be produced by Mary Parent through her Disruption Entertainment banner.\n\nBeyblade developed a cult following when the series' popular spinning top toy was launched worldwide. Now with the released fourth season of the \"Metal Fight Beyblade\" series, \"Metal Fight Beyblade Zero-G\", aka \"Beyblade Shogun Steel\", a toy line which consists of Beyblades from the anime including Samurai Ifraid W145CF, MSF Shinobi Saramanda SW145SD, MSF Pirates Orojya 145D, Thief Phoenix E230GCF, Guardian Reviser 160SB, MSF Archer Gryph C145S, Pirates Killerken A230JSB, and many more are being released in Asia.\n\n\"Beyblade, Let It Rip! The Official Album\" was released in the UK to coincide with the show's popularity. It featured the anime's opening theme, as well as songs by artists including Nickelback and Busted.\n\nOriginally developed and manufactured by Takara Tomy, first released in 2000. The toys include a 'launcher' – a device for bringing the spinning top up to speed in a plastic arena known as a Beystadium, with a slightly dished base, where they subsequently strike each other. The last top still spinning wins. Beyblade is largely a game of power and angle, although many players believe a particular launch style can influence the outcome of a game.\n\nCommon Sense Media described the series as a \"formulaic toy-inspired series [that] has some good messages.\" Don Houston of DVD Talk wrote, \"The show is just one long repetitive commercial, and not a well made commercial at that.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4652198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4652198", "title": "Billboard Radio Monitor", "text": "Billboard Radio Monitor\n\nBillboard Radio Monitor was a weekly music trade publication that followed the radio industry and tracked the monitoring of current songs by format, station and audience cumes. The magazine was a spinoff of \"Billboard magazine\" and was mostly available through subscription to people who work in the radio industry as well as music chart enthusiasts. It was developed in Columbia, Maryland, initially by Alan Smith and Jonas Cash, principals of the music company called AIR. AIR created music listening competitions for radio programmers in five different musical genres and were looking for a \"qualifier\" for the contests. The contests involved testing new songs' potential by having radio programmers listen to and respond to each song's hit potential using a national chart as the qualifier. After using Radio and Records chart for the first 10 years of the competition, AIR developed the BAM, and went into partnership with \"Billboard Magazine\" to produce and market the magazine. As members of the Board of Directors, the AIR principals continued to improve its features over the next eight years under the new name of \"Billboard Radio Monitor\".\n\nIt started out in 1993 as one 8-page publication covering Top 40, Rhythm 40, Crossover, Urban, AC, Hot AC, Rock, Alternative and Country formats. Eventually, four different publications under the \"Airplay Monitor\" title appeared and became the #1 source of hit music information. They were combined in 2001 and later changed their name to Billboard Radio Monitor in 2003. On July 14, 2006, publication ceased and was relaunched under the \"Radio & Records\" banner on August 11, 2006. The move was a result of a merger between the current \"R&R\" and \"Radio Monitor\" after VNU Media acquired \"R&R\" on July 6, 2006. The relaunched \"R&R\" would later cease publication on June 5, 2009.\n\nPrior to 1993, the radio stations playlists and radio music charts were featured in Billboard. But with the addition of monitored airplay from Nielsen Broadcast Data Systems in 1990 and the fragmentation of music formats, the need for a magazine that would focus on one format would come to the forefront. That move resulted in the spinoff of Airplay Monitor, a publication that would the monitor songs or tracks being played on radio station by the number of spins, which in turn are added and tabulated to the corresponding chart the station reports to. The charts and the number of spins featured on the chart are also used to factor in the main \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart, as well as the Hot 100 Airplay, Pop 100, Pop 100 Airplay, Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks and Hot Country Singles & Tracks music charts.\n\nAt the start of Airplay Monitor's first issue on January 9, 1993, the publication was available in four editions, which would last until 2001, when they were consolidated into one publication as \"Airplay Monitor\":\n\n\nOn January 6, 2003, just ten years after its debut, Billboard renamed the publication \"Billboard Radio Monitor\". The change was to reflect to growing landscape of the radio industry as it began to incorporate more articles involving programmers, markets, formats and artists into the magazine. They also expanded the number of format airplay panels as well and in 2004 became the first music trade to include satellite and audio networks in its reporting panels.\n\nThe monitored radio panels are:\n\n\nOn July 6, 2006 VNU, the parent company of \"Billboard Radio Monitor\", announced the acquisition of \"Radio & Records\" (\"R&R\"), which became a part of the Billboard Information Group a month later on August 1. \"R&R\" had been considered a rival to \"Billboard\" and \"BRM\" for more than 33 years (since 1973, the year \"R&R\" started) and like \"BRM\" also used radio airplay to determine chart activity.\n\nIn a statement on both \"R&R\" and \"Billboard Radio Monitor\"'s websites:\n\n“This acquisition is in line with VNU's strategy to further strengthen its services to the radio and record industries,” said Michael Marchesano, president and CEO of VNU Business Media and Nielsen Entertainment. “With the added resources of VNU, especially our music services, including the Billboard Information Group, Nielsen BDS, and Nielsen SoundScan, \"R&R\" will continue to grow as a vibrant brand.”\n\nWith the purchase of \"R&R\" it was announced on July 12, 2006 that their operations were integrated into \"R&R\" after the transition was completed, since both \"BRM\" and \"R&R\"'s charts and radio reporting panels were identical to each other, thus resulting in \"Billboard Radio Monitor\" ceasing publication with its July 14 issue. However they continued issuing weekly charts and report on radio industry news online during the turnover, as \"R&R\" started integrating their articles and columns into the Billboard Information Group.\n\nOnce the merger was completed both trades was relaunched on August 11 under the \"R&R\" name, which combined the features and format articles from the current \"R&R\" but continues to use the same BDS charts and format reporting panels that was featured in \"Radio Monitor\", starting with the week ending August 6. The change also ended \"R&R\"'s partnership with Mediabase after the August 4, 2006 issue.\n\nFrom January 9, 1993 up until its last first-run show on January 28, 1995, \"American Top 40\" used the Top 40 Mainstream chart as its main source.\n\n"}
{"id": "36620634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36620634", "title": "Booby Kids", "text": "Booby Kids\n\nIn 1993, Nichibutsu released for the Game Boy a similar game entitled \"Booby Boys\".\n\n\"Booby Kids\" is a game played form an overhead perspective, with the player taking on the role of one of the titular Booby Kids, named for their ability to instantly dig booby traps in front of where they stand and bury hostile enemies that attempt to seek out and ultimately destroy the Booby Kids. Compared to \"Kid no Hore Hore Daisakusen\", the levels in \"Booby Kids\" feature more of a reliance on puzzle-solving in addition to the maze like structures of the original game.\n\nLevels range from the conventional Prehistory setting of the first four levels to feudal Japan and even some futuristic levels inspired by science fiction. There are 21 levels in this game with five different bonus levels to gain extra points in. Objects to acquire in the other time zones include coconuts (in the prehistoric era), ancient Japanese scrolls (in feudal Japan), radios (in the World War II era), bags of money (in the modern era), and computer monitors (retrieved in the future era).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2960672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2960672", "title": "Bygdedans", "text": "Bygdedans\n\nBygdedans (or village dance) is the regional, traditional dance of Norway. Bygdedans are the oldest and most distinctive among Norwegian folk dances. \n\nThe music accompanying bygdedans is normally seen as the oldest living musical traditions in the country. These traditions have mainly survived in the more isolated farming communities of the country. In the urban areas and along the coastline where the interaction with other cultural expressions was more intense, these dances have been left behind in favour of new popular dances such as the \"gammeldans\" which became popular with the arrival of new instruments like the accordion. \n\nThe basic form of the bygdedans is the \"gangar\" (walking dance in 2/4 or 3/8) and the \"springar\" (running dance in even rhythm or 3/4) distinguished from each other mainly by tempo and intensity of the music and the dance. Both dances were characterised by a sequence of three parts: the figuring part; the free dancing part (\"lausdans\") and the closed hold part (\"samdans\"). \n\nThrough time a lot of regional variation has developed and most springar dances today have a clear ¾ pulse, which character varies considerably regionally. For instance in Telemark the pulse is best characterised as longer – long – short, whereas in Valdres it is short – longer – long. The \"gangar\" today is only a living tradition in Telemark and Setesdal. In the western part of Norway the \"gangar\" and its traditional tunes have been taken over by \"rull\" or \"rudl\", a dance with a more modern waltzing style. The more athletic \"Halling\" or \"Lausdans\" can also be seen as an heir of \"gangar\" but is mostly danced by men.\n\nThe areas of bygdedans correlate mainly with the regions where the hardanger fiddle is used as the main folk music instrument. In the parts of Norway where the violin is more common, the traditional dances like, \"pols\" and \"springleik\", have taken up more modern traits associated with the \"gammaldans\".\n\n\nLarson, Leroy W. \"Scandinavian-American Folk Dance Music of the Norwegians in Minnesota\" (Ph.D. diss., University of Minnesota. 1975)\n"}
{"id": "576061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=576061", "title": "Candombe", "text": "Candombe\n\nCandombe is an Uruguayan music and dance that comes from African slaves. It is considered an important aspect of the culture of Uruguay and was recognized by UNESCO as a World Cultural Heritage of humanity. To a lesser extent, Candombe is practiced in Argentina, Paraguay and Brazil. In Argentina, it can be found in Buenos Aires, Santa Fe, Paraná, and Corrientes. In Paraguay is continued this tradition in Kamba Kua (Camba Cua) in Fernando de la Mora near to Asuncion. Also in Brazil, it still retains its religious character and can be found in Minas Gerais State.\n\nThis Uruguayan music style is based on three different drums: chico, repique and piano drums. This music style is usually played in February during carnival in Montevideo, Uruguay at dance parades called \"Llamadas\" and \"Desfile Innaugural del Carnaval\".\n\nAccording to George Reid Andrews, the historian of Montevideo Black communities, after the middle of the 19th century younger blacks in particular abandoned the \"candombe\" in favor of dances from Europe such as the mazurka. Meanwhile, whites began to imitate the steps and movements of blacks. Calling themselves Los Negros, upper class porteños in the 1860s and 1870s blackened their faces and formed one of the carnival processions each year.\n\nAfrican-Uruguayans organized candombe dances every Sunday and on special holidays such as New Year's Eve, Christmas, Saint Baltasar, Rosary Virgin and Saint Benito. They would set a fire to heat the drums and play candombe music, specially during the night in certain neighbors such as Barrio Sur and Palermo in Montevideo.\nThe typical characters on the parade represent the old white masters during slavery in old Montevideo city. It was a mockery to their lifestyle with a rebel spirit for freedom and a way to remember the African origins.\n\nA new dance, which embodied the movement and style of the \"candombe\", and called a \"tango\" with couples dancing apart, rather than in an embrace, was created by the Afro-Argentines of Mondongo in the year 1877. So wrote a man who identified himself as \"Viejo Tanguero\" in a September 1913 article in Buenos Aires's first mass circulation popular newspaper. In a book published in 1883 Ventura Lynch—a noted student of the dances and folklore of Buenos Aires Province—noted the influence the Afro-Argentine dancers had on the \"compadritos\", or tough guys, who apparently frequented the Afro-Argentine dance venues. Lynch wrote, \"the milonga is danced only by the \"compadritos\" of the city, who have created it as a mockery of the dances the blacks hold in their own places\". Lynch's report was interpreted by Robert Farris Thompson in \"Tango: The Art of Love\" as meaning that city \"compadritos\" danced milonga, not rural gauchos. Thompson notes that the population of city toughs dancing milonga would have included blacks and mulattoes, and that it would not have been danced as a mockery by all the dancers.\n\nIn the third decade of the 19th century the word \"candombe\" began to appear in Montevideo, referring to self-help dancing societies founded by persons of African descent. The term means \"pertaining to blacks\" in Kikongo. In Montevideo it meant more than a dance or a music or a congregation, but all of the above. Candombe the dance was a local fusion of various African traditions. A complicated choreography included a final section with wild rhythms, freely improvised steps, and energetic, semi-athletic movements. Candombe in Uruguay includes a music troupe playing Uruguayan Candombe in a special dance parade called “Desfile de Llamadas”, through the Sur and Palermo neighborhoods in Montevideo, Uruguay.\n\nThe African influence was not foreign to Argentina, where the candombe also has been developed with specific characteristics. A population of black African slaves had been present in Buenos Aires since around 1580. However their place in Argentine culture nearly died out due to events such as the yellow fever epidemic and the War against Paraguay that decimated the black population in Argentina and nearly wiped out their culture. While wars and disease decreased black populations particularly, widespread discrimination in the 19th and 20th century, especially after the abolution of slavery in 1863, also took a toll. In addition, afroporteños (black people from Buenos Aires)were outnumbered by the increasing flow of immigration of white Europeans who displaced black workers in the domestic services, crafts and street sales. Still, in Buenos Aires, mainly in southern districts—today called San Telmo and Montserrat—crowds gathered to practice candombe.\n\nThe seeds of candombe originated in present-day Angola, where it was taken to South America during the 17th and 18th centuries by people who had been sold as slaves in the kingdoms of Kongo, Anziqua, Nyong, Quang and others, mainly by Portuguese slave traders. The same cultural carriers of candombe colonized Brazil (especially in the area of Salvador de Bahia), Cuba, and the Río de la Plata with its capital Buenos Aires and Montevideo. The different histories and experiences in these regions separated the common origin, giving rise to different rhythms.\n\nIn Buenos Aires, during the two governments of Juan Manuel de Rosas, it was common that “afroporteños” (black people of Buenos Aires) practiced the candombe in public, even encouraged and visited by Rosas and his daughter, Manuela. Rosas defeated in the battle of Caseros in 1852, Buenos Aires began a profound and rapid change with respect to European culture. In this context, the afroporteños (black people of Buenos Aires) replicated their ancestral cultural patterns increasingly into their private life. For this reason since 1862, the press, intellectuals and politicians began to assert that had disappeared misconception that has remained virtually until now in the imagination of ordinary people, from Argentina.\n\nMany researchers agree that the Candombe, through the development of the Milonga is an essential component in the genesis of Argentine tango. This musical rhythm influenced, specially, the \"Sureña Milonga\". In fact, tango, milonga and candombe form a musical triptych from the same African roots. But with different developments.\n\nInitially, the practice of Candombe was practiced exclusively by blacks, who had designed special places called “Tangó’s”. This word originated sometime in the 19th century the word \"Tango\", but not yet its present meaning.\n\nLately, some artists have incorporated this genre to their compositions, and have also created groups and NGOs of Afro-descendants, as the Misibamba Association, Afro-Argentines of Buenos Aires Community. However, it is important to note that the Uruguayan Candombe is the most practiced in Argentina, both due to immigration from Uruguay and to the seductiveness of the rhythm that captivates the Argentines. For this reason they learn the music, dance and characters and recreate something similar. Uruguayan Candombe is played much in the neighborhoods of San Telmo, Montserrat and La Boca. While the Argentine variety had less local diffusion (compared with the diffusion that occurred in Uruguay), mainly by the decrease of population of black African origin, its mixing with white immigrants and the prohibition of the carnival during the last dictatorship. The Afroargentine Candombe is only played by the Afro-Argentines in the privacy of their homes, mainly located in the outskirts of Buenos Aires. Recently, due to a change in strategy by the Afro-Argentines to move from concealment to the visibility, there are some ventures to interpret it in public places, as stages and street parades. Among the groups who play Afroargentine Candombe are: “Tambores del Litoral” (union of “Balikumba” from Santa Fe, and “Candombes del Litoral” from Parana, Entre Ríos), “Bakongo” (these, have their own web page), the “Comparsa Negros Argentinos” and \"Grupo Bum Ke Bum (both from Asociación Misibamba). The latter two are in Gran Buenos Aires (Buenos Aires City and its surroundings).\n\nIn the late 1960s and early 1970s candombe was mixed with elements from 60s pop music and bossa nova to create a new genre called candombe beat. The origin of this genre was largely said to be the work of Eduardo Mateo, a Uruguayan singer, songwriter and musician together with other musicians such as Jorge Galemire. This style was later adopted by Jaime Roos and also heavily influenced Jorge Drexler. Contemporary musicians like Diego Janssen are experimenting with fusing candombe with jazz, blues and milonga.\n\nInscribed in 2009 on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity, UNESCO. The candombe is a source of pride and a symbol of the identity of communities of African descent in Montevideo, embraced by younger generations and favouring group cohesion, while expressing the communities’ needs and feelings with regard to their ancestors.\n\nThe music of \"candombe\" is performed by a group of drummers called a cuerda. The barrel-shaped drums, or tamboriles, have specific names according to their size and function:\n\n\nAn even larger drum, called \"bajo\" or \"bombo\" (very large, very low timbre, accent on the fourth beat), was once common but is now declining in use. A \"cuerda\" at a minimum needs three drummers, one on each part. A full cuerda will have 50–100 drummers, commonly with rows of seven or five drummers, mixing the three types of drums. A typical row of five can be piano-chico-repique-chico-piano, with the row behind having repique-chico-piano-chico-repique and so on to the last row.\n\nTamboriles are made of wood with animal skins that are rope-tuned or fire-tuned minutes before the performance. They are worn at the waist with the aid of a shoulder strap called a \"talig\" or \"talí\" and played with one stick and one hand.\n\nA key rhythmic figure in \"candombe\" is the clave (in 3–2 form). It is played on the side of the drum, a procedure known as \"hacer madera\" (literally, \"making wood\").\n\nAmong the most important and traditional Montevidean rhythms are: Cuareim, Ansina and Cordon. There are several master drummers who have kept Candombe alive uninterrupted for two hundred years. Some of highlights are: in Ansina school: Wáshington Ocampo, Héctor Suárez, Pedro \"Perico\" Gularte, Eduardo \"Cacho\" Giménez, Julio Giménez, Raúl \"Pocho\" Magariños, Rubén Quirós, Alfredo Ferreira, \"Tito\" Gradín, Raúl \"Maga\" Magariños, Luis \"Mocambo\" Quirós, Fernando \"Hurón\" Silva, Eduardo \"Malumba\" Gimenez, Alvaro Salas, Daniel Gradín, Sergio Ortuño y José Luis Giménez.\n\nThe Afro-Argentine Candombe is played with two types of drums, played exclusively by men. Those drums are: “llamador” (also called \"base\", \"tumba\", \"quinto\" or \"tumba base\"), and \"repicador\" (also called \"contestador\", \"repiqueteador\" or \"requinto\"). The first is a bass drum, and the second is a sharp drum. There are two models of each of the drums: one made in hollowed trunk, and the other made with staves. The first type are hung with a strap on the shoulder and are played in a street parade. The latter are higher than those, and played for granted. Both types of drums, are played only with both hands. Sometimes others drums are played: the \"macú\" and the \"sopipa\". Both are made from hollowed tree trunk, the first is performed lying on the floor, as it is the largest and deepest drum; and the \"Sopipa\" which is small and acute, is played hung on the shoulder or held between the knees.\n\nAmong the idiophones that always accompany the drums are the \"taba\" and \"mazacalla\", being able to add: the \"quijada\", the \"quisanche\", and the \"chinesco”. The Argentine Candombe is a vocal-instrumental practice, all the same to be played sitting or street parade. There is a large repertoire of songs in African languages archaic, in Spanish or in a combination of both. They are usually structured in the form of dialogue and are interpreted solo, responsorial, antiphonal or in group. Although singing is usually a feminine practice, men may be involved. Where there is more than one voice, they are always in unison.\n\nA full \"Candombe\" group, collectively known as a Comparsa Lubola (composed of blackened white people, traditionally with burnt corks) or Candombera (composed of black people), constitutes the \"cuerda\", a group of female dancers known as mulatas, and several stock characters, each with their own specific dances. The stock characters include:\n\nCandombe is performed regularly in the streets of old Montevideo's south neighbourhood in January and February, during Uruguay's Carnival period, and also in the rest of the country. All the \"comparsas\", of which there are 80 or 90 in existence, participate in a massive Carnival parade called Las Llamadas (\"calls\") and vie with each other in official competitions in the \"Teatro de Verano\" theatre. During Las Llamadas, members of the comparsa often wear costumes that reflect the music's historical roots in the slave trade, such as sun hats and black face-paint. The monetary prizes are modest; more important aspects include enjoyment, the fostering of a sense of pride and the winning of respect from peers. \nIntense performances can cause damage to red blood cells, which manifests as rust-colored urine immediately after drumming.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1561740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561740", "title": "Carimbó", "text": "Carimbó\n\nCarimbó is a Brazilian dance. The dance was common in the northern part of Brazil, from the time that Brazil was still a Portuguese colony, originally from the Brazilian region of Pará, around Marajó island and the capital city of Belém. \n\nCarimbó was a loose and very sensual dance which involved only side to side movements and many spins and hip movement by the female dancer, who typically wore a rounded skirt. The music was mainly to the beat of Carimbó drums. In this dance, a woman would throw her handkerchief on the floor and her male partner would attempt to retrieve it using solely his mouth.\n\nOver time, the dance changed, as did the music itself. It was influenced by the Caribbean (for example, Zouk, and Merengue styles) and French/Spanish dance styles of the Caribbean, especially Cumbia from Colombia.\n\nThe style survives today, with Caribbean radio stations in the northern states of Brazil, such as Amapá, playing the music. The Carimbó style has formed the basis of some new rhythms like the \"Sirimbó\", the \"Lari Lari\" and the Lambada.\n\nThe carimbó drum is approximately 1m tall and 30cm wide and made of a hollow trunk of wood, thinned by fire, and covered with a deerskin.\n"}
{"id": "6389166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6389166", "title": "Cinema of Myanmar", "text": "Cinema of Myanmar\n\nThe cinema of Burma has a long history dating back to the 1910s. The person who created the first silent film was Ohn Maung (Burma's first producer and director). He is known today as the father of Burmese cinema.\n\nBurma's first film was a recording of the funeral of Tun Shein - a leading politician of the 1910s, who campaigned for Burmese independence in London. It was captured with a second-hand camera by Ohn Maung and was screened at the Royal Cinema, near Scott Market (now Bogyoke Market), which belonged to a Mr Achar, a friend of Ohn Maung. Despite its documentary nature, the Burmese public was very proud of the film, which opened with the notice \"Please accept our apologies for the poor quality of the film\".\n\nOhn Maung then founded The Burma Film Company to produce and direct more films. He hired Nyi Pu (Burma's first actor) to shoot the first Burmese silent film \"Myitta Ne Thuya\" (\"Love and Liquor\") which proved a major success, despite its poor quality due to a fixed camera position and inadequate film accessories. The film opened with the title \"Burma Film Presents: Love and Liquor\" but there were no credits or mention of the cast. It was based on a story by P Moe Nin about how gambling and alcohol destroyed a man's life. The day the film premiered, 13 October 1920, is commemorated annually as the Myanmar Movie Day.\n\nFox of America asked for Burmese nature study scenes and bought them from Ohn Maung. He also acquired more advanced film accessories and camera from the Kodak Company.\n\nDuring the 1920s and 1930s, many Burmese-owned film companies (such as A1, New Burma, British Burma, The Imperial, Bandula and Yan Gyi Aung) made and produced several films. Some of the famous directors of this era were Nyi Pu, Sunny, Tote Kyi, and Tin Pe.\n\nThe first Burmese sound film was produced in 1932 in Bombay, India with the title \"Ngwe Pay Lo Ma Ya\" (Money Can't Buy It) and directed by Tote Kyi. Films dealing with social issues and political themes became popular in the 1930s. Parrot Film Company produced films that addressed social issues such as gambling and police corruption, although the films were censored by the British colonial government. There were also films that were banned like \"Do Daung Lan\" (Our Peacock Flag) in 1936 and \"Aung Thabyay\" (The Triumphant Jambul) in 1937. The political film \"Boycott\" was directed by the student leader Ko Nu in 1937 and starred other student leaders such as Aung San and Htun Ohn. The censors allowed this film to be shown.\n\nMany of the films from this era no longer exist due to the lack of adequate preservation.\n\nAfter World War II, Burmese cinema continued to address political themes. Many of the films produced in the early Cold War era had a strong propaganda element to them. The film \"Palè Myetyay\" (Tear of Pearl), produced in the wake of the Kuomintang invasion of Burma in the 1950s, highlighted the importance of the armed forces or Tatmadaw to the country. \"Ludu Aung Than\" (The People Win Through) featured anti-Communist propaganda. The script was written by U Nu who served as Prime Minister during the 1950s.\n\nThe famous film maker and author Thukha started producing films during this period. His most famous film is \"Bawa Thanthaya\" (The Life Cycle). Burma held its first Academy Awards in 1952. Starting with the Socialist era in 1962, there was strict censorship and control of film scripts.\n\nIn the era that followed the political events of 1988, the film industry has been increasingly controlled by the government. After the 1989 move by the government to open up the economy, the movie industry was privatised. The film company Mingala became the most powerful company in the industry. Film stars who had been involved in the political activities of the 1980s and 1990s, such as Aung Lwin and Tun Wai, were banned from appearing in films. The films of some directors such as Win Pe have also been banned. The government issues strict rules on censorship and largely determines who produces films, as well as who gets academy awards.\n\nOver the years, the movie industry has also shifted to producing many lower budget direct-to-video films.\n\nMost of the movies produced nowadays are comedies. In 2008, only 12 films worthy of being considered for an Academy Award were made, although at least 800 VCDs were produced.\n\nAnother issue plaguing the Burmese cinema is a steep decline in the number of theatres in which to screen the films. According to a December 2011 survey, the number of theatres nationwide had declined to just 71 from their peak of 244. The survey also found that most were several-decade-old ageing theatres, and that only six \"mini-theaters\" had been built in 2009–2011. Moreover, the vast majority of the theatres were located in Yangon and Mandalay alone.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "464601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=464601", "title": "Close-up", "text": "Close-up\n\nA close-up or closeup in filmmaking, television production, still photography, and the comic strip medium is a type of shot that tightly frames a person or object. Close-ups are one of the standard shots used regularly with medium and long shots (cinematic techniques). Close-ups display the most detail, but they do not include the broader scene. Moving toward or away from a close-up is a common type of zooming.\n\nMost early filmmakers—such as Thomas Edison, Auguste and Louis Lumière and Georges Méliès—tended not to use close-ups and preferred to frame their subjects in long shots, similar to the stage. Film historians disagree as to which filmmaker first used a close-up. One of the best claims is for George Albert Smith in Hove, who used medium close-ups in films as early as 1898 and by 1900 was incorporating extreme close-ups in films such as \"As Seen Through a Telescope\" and \"Grandma's Reading Glass\". In 1901, James Williamson, also working in Hove, made perhaps the most extreme close-up of all in \"The Big Swallow\", when his character approaches the camera and appears to swallow it. D. W. Griffith, who pioneered screen cinematographic techniques and narrative format, is associated with popularizing the close up with the success of his films. For example, one of Griffith's short films, \"The Lonedale Operator\" (1911), makes significant use of a close-up of a wrench that a character pretends is a gun. Lillian Gish remarked on Griffith's pioneering use of the close-up:\n\nThe people in the front office got very upset. They came down and said: 'The public doesn’t pay for the head or the arms or the shoulders of the actor. They want the whole body. Let’s give them their money’s worth.’ Griffith stood very close to them and said: ‘Can you see my feet?’ When they said no, he replied: ‘That’s what I’m doing. I am using what the eyes can see.'\n\nClose-ups are used in many ways and for many reasons. They are often employed as cutaways from a more distant shot to show detail, such as characters' emotions, or some intricate activity with their hands. Close cuts to characters' faces are used far more often in television than in movies; they are especially common in soap operas. For a director to deliberately avoid close-ups may create in the audience an emotional distance from the subject matter.\n\nClose-ups are used for distinguishing main characters. Major characters are often given a close-up when they are introduced as a way of indicating their importance. Leading characters will have multiple close-ups. There is a long-standing stereotype of insecure actors desiring a close-up at every opportunity and counting the number of close-ups they received. An example of this stereotype occurs when the character Norma Desmond in \"Sunset Boulevard\", announces \"All right, Mr. DeMille, I'm ready for my close-up\" as she is taken into police custody in the film's finale.\n\nClose-up shots do not show the subject in the broad context of its surroundings. If overused, they may leave viewers uncertain as to what they are seeing. Close-ups are rarely done with wide-angle lenses, because perspective causes objects in the center of the picture to be unnaturally enlarged. This may convey a sense of confusion, intoxication, or other unusual mental state.\n\nThere are various degrees of close-up depending on how tight (zoomed in) the shot is. The terminology varies between countries and even different companies, but in general these are:\nWhen the close-up is used in shooting, the subject should not be put in exactly the middle of the frame. Instead, it should be located in the frame according to the law of golden section.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "25466355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25466355", "title": "Closed for the Season", "text": "Closed for the Season\n\nClosed for the Season is a 2010 supernatural thriller film written and directed by Jay Woelfel, starring Aimee Brooks, Damian Maffei, and Joe Unger.\n\nThe film tells the story of Kristy who, wakes up to find herself trapped beneath the ruins of a dilapidated wooden roller coaster inside an abandoned amusement park. She quickly finds herself being terrorized by the myths and urban legends that have become part of Chippewa Lake’s 130-year history. While attempting to escape, Kristy runs into James, whose parents are the caretakers of the park. \nJames listens to Kristy and helps her investigate. James discovers that he, too, is now trapped inside the park. Kristy and James encounter a mysterious carny in clown makeup, who once was responsible for operating the amusement park’s roller coaster but who died many years previously. He advises the couple that their only escape is to relive and survive all the life-threatening tales from the park’s past and to ride the now-operational rides in the park one final time.\n\nThe film was written and directed by Jay Woelfel, and produced by ShadowCast Pictures; Jay Ellison and Jon Wagner worked as executive producers. It was shot in Chippewa Lake, Ohio and Los Angeles, California. The film is based upon folklore surrounding an amusement park in Chippewa Lake, Ohio. Many of the film's scenes were shot on the site of the long-closed amusement park, using some of the derelict attractions as backgrounds.\n\nThe film premiered on March 12, 2010 at the Monster-Mania 14 and is part of the Famous Monster Convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "21225053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21225053", "title": "Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs (film)", "text": "Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs (film)\n\nCloudy with a Chance of Meatballs is a 2009 American 3D computer-animated science fiction comedy film produced by Sony Pictures Animation and loosely based on the 1978 children's book of the same name by Judi and Ron Barrett. It was written and directed by Phil Lord and Christopher Miller in their directorial debuts, and stars the voices of Bill Hader, Anna Faris, Bruce Campbell, James Caan, Bobb'e J. Thompson, Andy Samberg, Mr. T, Benjamin Bratt, Neil Patrick Harris, Al Roker, Lauren Graham, and Will Forte. In the film, an aspiring inventor named Flint Lockwood develops a machine that can convert water into food following a series of failed experiments. After the machine begins to develop food storms, Flint must destroy the machine in order to save the world.\n\nThe film premiered in Los Angeles on September 12, 2009, and was released in the United States on September 18, 2009. It received critical acclaim and earned over $243 million worldwide on a budget of $100 million. The film has since been expanded into a franchise, with a sequel, \"Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs 2,\" released on September 27, 2013 and an animated television series based on the film premiering on Cartoon Network on February 20, 2017.\n\nFlint Lockwood is a wannabe-scientist who lives in Swallow Falls, a tiny island in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean that has sardines as the base of its economy. Flint lives with Tim, his widowed technophobic father, and his pet monkey, Steve. Despite Flint's zealous enthusiasm, his inventions, including spray-on shoes, a remote controlled television, hair-un-balding serum, a flying car, a monkey thought translator, and rat birds, all end in failure.\n\nFlint then invents a machine that transforms water into food, called the \"Flint Lockwood Diatonic Super Mutating Dynamic Food Replicator\" (FLDSMDFR). Flint turns on the FLDSMDFR in his laboratory, but ends up overloading the house's electrical supply. He then decides to power the machine by hooking it up to a nearby power plant. When he turns the machine back on, it ends up rocketing through town, destroying Sardine Land (a park conceived by the mayor to increase tourism) before ultimately shooting up into the sky. While recovering from his failure, Flint meets Samantha \"Sam\" Sparks, a weather intern whose big break was ruined thanks to his actions. Their conversation is cut short when rainbow colored clouds float over the town and begin to rain cheeseburgers.\n\nThe town rejoices in their renewed food choices, and Flint creates a communication device to send orders to the machine and order it to create different types of food. Swallow Falls (now renamed Chewandswallow) suddenly becomes a successful \"food tourism\" destination. Everything is going well until the townsfolk start greedily requesting food from Flint's machine. Flint notices that the food is beginning to grow larger in size. Although he is concerned that the food is starting to \"over mutate\", the now morbidly obese mayor sees it as profitable for him and the city, and guilts Flint into continuing to make food rain.\n\nCitizens and worldly tourists in Chewandswallow are blissful until suddenly a large tornado formed of spaghetti and meatballs threatens the town. Flint rushes to his lab to turn the FLDSMDFR off and attempts to send a \"kill code\" to stop the machine, but the mayor, while trying to stop him by throwing a giant radish at him, accidentally destroys the communication device after ordering a vegas style all-you-can-eat buffet. With Flint unable to control the machine, a massive food storm is created which threatens the world. When Flint's father encourages him to fix the mess, Flint gains self-confidence, places the kill code in a USB flash drive, and builds a new flying car to reach and deactivate the FLDSMDFR, with the aid of Sam, her cameraman Manny, Steve and Brent (namesake of the Baby Brent Sardine cannery).\n\nAs they approach the machine in the sky, they find that it is now at the core of a giant meatball, where clouds go in the top and a food hurricane comes out the bottom. The machine sends living food to attack them. In the chaos, the flash drive with the kill code flies out of the window.\n\nBack at Chewandswallow, the citizens and tourists escape while the last leftovers fall. Mt. Leftovers collapses, causing an avalanche of food that destroys the town. Despite the avalanche ravaging Flint's Lab, Tim manages to re-send the kill code to Flint's cell phone from there. Flint then goes inside the meatball, finds the machine, and connects the phone to a port. To his dismay, Flint discovers that Tim sent him the wrong file by accident, so he is unable to stop the FLDSMDFR. Flint then gets an idea and uses his Spray-On Shoes formula on the machine, causing it to explode. With the machine destroyed, the food storm subsides and everyone is able to return safely to Chewandswallow. Tim finally shows his appreciation for his son and his inventions and Flint and Sam celebrate with a kiss. Meanwhile, the obese mayor is seen stranded in the middle of the sea, having eaten nearly all of his peanut butter and jelly sandwich boat, while muttering that his plans were not well thought out.\n\n\nOn May 9, 2003, a year after establishment, Sony Pictures Animation announced its first animated slate, including \"Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs\", a film adaptation of the book of the same name. The Brizzi brothers were brought to direct the film, with Wayne Rice adapting the screenplay. In 2006, it was reported that the film had been helmed by new directors and writers, Phil Lord and Christopher Miller. \n\nAfter a year working on the script, they were fired for story issues and replaced with new writers, who after a year were also fired. Lord and Miller were then re-hired in 2006. The two completely redid the script, this time with the creative input of their crew. The new draft had the protagonist as a failed inventor who wanted to prove himself to his town. The two were almost fired again after Amy Pascal, head of Sony, criticized the film for a lack of story. Although the film succeeded on the comedic front in the animatic stage, Pascal cited the lack of an anchoring relationship in the film as a failure in the story telling. Unable to create new characters and environments to suit the new story demands, the two elevated the character of the tackle shop extra to be the protagonist’s father, thereby creating the relationship Pascal had requested. The pair's experience on \"Cloudy\" taught them two valuable lessons: the power of creative collaboration and the importance of emotion in a story.\n\nOn September 18, 2008, Variety announced that Bill Hader and Anna Faris had signed on to voice the two lead characters, with James Caan, Bruce Campbell, Mr. T, Andy Samberg, Neil Patrick Harris, Bobb'e J. Thompson, Benjamin Bratt, Al Roker, Lauren Graham, and Will Forte also in the voice cast. Lord and Miller said later that year that it would be a homage to, and a parody of, disaster films such as \"Twister\", \"Armageddon\", \"The Core\", and \"The Day After Tomorrow\". \"Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs\" is the second film (after \"Monster House\") made using animation rendering software Arnold.\n\nCloudy with a Chance of Meatballs is a soundtrack to the film of the same name, released under Sony Pictures Entertainment on September 15, 2009. The music of the film and this album are both credited to be composed and produced by American composer Mark Mothersbaugh of Devo.\n\n\"Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs\" premiered on September 12, 2009, at the Mann Village Theatre in Los Angeles, California. The film had its wide release on September 18, 2009, along with a digitally re-mastered release to IMAX 3D theatres.\n\nThe film was released on DVD, Blu-ray Disc, and PSP UMD on January 5, 2010 in the United States and Canada. A 3D Blu-ray was released on June 22, 2010. It was the first 3D Blu-ray sold individually in the United States.\n\nIn August 2009, Insight Editions published a companion book to the film called \"The Art and Making of Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs\".\n\nReview aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 87% of critics gave positive reviews based on 139 reviews with an average rating of 7.3/10. The consensus statement reads, \"Quirky humor, plucky characters and solid slapstick make this family comedy a frenetically tasty time at the movies.\" Another review aggretator, Metacritic, which normalizes a rating from mainstream critics, gave the film an approval rating of 66 based on 24 reviews. Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"A-\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nErnest Hardy of \"LA Weekly\" stated the film \"is smart, insightful on a host of relationship dynamics, and filled with fast-paced action\". Hardy also applauded the 3-D effects which \"are wonderful, full of witty sight gags that play out both center-screen and on the periphery\". Michael Phillips of the \"Chicago Tribune\" gave the film a mixed review stating that \"Crazy doesn't always equal funny, and the gigantism of this 3-D offering's second half puts a damper on your enjoyment. But look: This film wasn't made for you, or me. It was made for dangerously, easily distracted 9-year-olds.\" Kyle Smith of the \"New York Post\" gave the film two stars stating that the animated film \"greatly expands on the kids' book on which it's based in a clever and engaging first half. But the second half leaves a foul aftertaste.\" Animator John Kricfalusi, known for his generally negative opinions on modern animation, did a review of the film on his blog, saying that \"It was an optimistic portent of what \"could\" be. It's basically an undirected film—but one that allowed many of the artists to take nothing scenes and add some kind of cleverness, design and action to the formulaic events being told by the story.\"\n\n\"Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs\" earned a total of $243 million on a reported budget of $100 million. Of the gross, 51%, or $124,870,275, came from the domestic market, while the rest, $118,135,851, from other territories. For the film's marketing, Sony spent $43.3 million in the United States, and $26 million in other countries. The film earned $8,137,358 on its opening Friday, and ranked #1 at the box office with a total of $30.3 million for the first weekend. On its second weekend, it remained at #1 with a decrease of only 17%. It currently holds the record for third-largest opening weekend in the month of September.\n\nA sequel, titled \"Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs 2\", was released on September 27, 2013. Directed by Cody Cameron and Kris Pearn, and it is based on an original idea, where Flint and his friends must again save the world from the food machine, this time producing living food beasts. Most of the main cast reprised their roles, with Terry Crews replacing Mr. T. New cast also includes Kristen Schaal as orangutan Barb, and Will Forte in his new role of Chester V.\n\nOn October 9, 2014, DHX Media announced that it will develop and produce a television series based on the film franchise, titled \"Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs: The Series\". The series will be traditionally animated and will consist of twenty-six 22-minute episodes. It will take place before the first film, showing Flint Lockwood as a high school student who dreams of becoming a serious scientist. In his adventures, he will be joined by Sam Sparks, a new girl in town and the school's \"wannabe\" reporter, along with Flint's dad Tim, Steve the Monkey, Manny as the head of the school's audiovisual club, Earl as a school gym teacher, Brent as a baby wear model, and mayor Shelbourne. DHX Media will handle the global television and non-US home entertainment distribution, along with worldwide merchandising rights, while Sony will distribute home entertainment in the US. Commissioned by Teletoon in Canada, the series will air on Cartoon Network in the United States, and on the Boomerang channel in other territories.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41011361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41011361", "title": "Crowned (web series)", "text": "Crowned (web series)\n\nCrowned is an American comedy web series created by Josh Bednarsky and his wife Brianne Sanborn, who also wrote, directed and star in the episodes. The show follows Macie Edwards, an unemployed actress who, in a desperate effort to keep her apartment and pay her cat's medical bills takes a job as a Party Princess in North Hollywood, CA. The series depicts the everyday routine of party princesses in the fictional Crowned Entertainment Company. Most of the show follows a standard narrative style but often cuts to interviews with the employees of the fictional corporation to simulate the look of a documentary.\n\nThe first episode premiered at a private event in Los Angeles, CA. The show became available on YouTube and the show's website on August 15, 2013, it became an instant hit online and some episodes surpassed 100,000 views. The show's 2nd season has yet to be announced. Film Threat gave the show 3 out of 5 stars, film critic Mark Bell wrote \"it’s an entertaining series, and it ends on a bit of a cliffhanger setting up some potentially fun dynamics for next season.\" \n\nThe series stars comedian Drew Droege, Megan Heyn (Browsers, Freak Dance) and Veronica Mannion. The show was co-produced by Usher Morgan who also supervised the Post Production process. Before Morgan's involvement, the show had a successful Crowdfunding campaign and the producers raised the funds needed for principal photography. The series soundtrack includes songs from the British IBM.\n\n"}
{"id": "38130159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38130159", "title": "Dan Dion", "text": "Dan Dion\n\nDaniel James Dion (born December 11, 1970) is an American photographer and comedy producer. He is best known for his location portraiture of comedians, and was the house photographer of the legendary San Francisco venue The Fillmore for twenty years.\n\nDion grew up in Kenwood, California. He attended Santa Clara University, where he was the campus comedy director, producing shows such as The Second City, P. J. O'Rourke, and Greg Proops. Upon graduation, he moved to San Francisco to work for political satirist Will Durst at his comedy club, the Holy City Zoo.\n\nIn 1993 he was an assistant photographer for the San Francisco Giants, and became the house photographer for The Fillmore and The Warfield venues as a staff shooter for Bill Graham Presents. His location portraits of comedians have spawned ongoing exhibitions at Gotham Comedy Club, The Punch Line San Francisco, the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater in Hollywood, as well as an annual show at the Montreal Just For Laughs Festival. In 2004, as a producer, he brought comedy back to The Purple Onion and later produced a stand-up comedy web series there for Crackle, a division of Sony Entertainment. In 2012 he produced the final show at the Purple Onion, when the entire building was sold to a restaurant concern.\n\nIn May 2010, Dion’s book \"¡SATIRISTAS!\", co-authored with Paul Provenza, was published by Harper-Collins. It features interviews and portraits with Stephen Colbert, Bill Maher, George Carlin, and other satirists.\n\nHe was the photographer for the book \"Tuesday Tucks Me In\", written by Luis Carlos Montalván and Bret Witter and published by Roaring Brook Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "39190318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39190318", "title": "Deliberative rhetoric", "text": "Deliberative rhetoric\n\nDeliberative rhetoric (sometimes called legislative oratory) is a rhetorical device that juxtaposes potential future outcomes to communicate support or opposition for a given action or policy. In deliberative rhetoric, an argument is made using examples from the past to predict future outcomes in order to illustrate that a given policy or action will either be harmful or beneficial in the future. It differs from deliberative democracy, which is a form of governmental discourse or institution that prioritizes public debate.\n\nIn \"Rhetoric\" (4th century BCE), Aristotle wrote that deliberative rhetoric is relevant in political debate since the \"political orator is concerned with the future: it is about things to be done hereafter that he advises, for or against.\" According to Aristotle, political orators make an argument for a particular position on the grounds that the future results will be in the public's best interest. He wrote that a politician \"aims at establishing the expediency or the harmfulness of a proposed course of action; if he urges its acceptance, he does so on the ground that it will do good; if he urges its rejection, he does so on the ground that it will do harm.\"\n"}
{"id": "57580517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57580517", "title": "Eastridge Mountain Bike Trail Centre", "text": "Eastridge Mountain Bike Trail Centre\n\nEastridge Mountain Bike Trail Centre is a free mountain biking venue in Shropshire, UK. The venue is developed and maintained by volunteers, and features a mixture of blue, red and black graded trails. There are also a number of steep, technical off-piste trails. Since 1991 Eastridge Woods have been used to host Downhill and XC mountain biking events since the 90's hosted the British National Mountain biking Championships in 1993,1994,1995,1996 and 1999.\n\nEastridge Wood is located in the Shropshire Hills, between the Villages of Habberley, Minsterley and Snailbeach, it lies east of the quartzite ridge known as the Stiperstones. The Rocky outcrop that forms Eastridge is known as the Habberly Formation and is thought to correlate with the Hunnebergian Stage of Scandinavia. It is the youngest known tremadoc in the Welsh Borderlands geological area.\n\nThe trails are located on Forestry Commission land and are signposted from the A5 near, Shrewsbury. The trails are built, run and maintained by a group of volunteers working in partnership with the Forestry commission in England.\n\nThe area was mined for lead and other minerals until 1955. At one point it was believed to be the most productive lead mine in Europe, it even had its own railway network: Snailbeach District Railways. Relics from the mine workings can still be found today at the nearby village of Snailbeach.\n\nThe first races at the venue were organised by local cycling club, the Mid Shropshire Wheelers in collaboration with the British cycling federation. In 1998 the venue hosted a round of the National Mountain Bike Points Series and featured in the satellite TV program \"Mountain Bike Britain\".\n\nEastrige fell out of favor as a downhill venue due to longer and steeper courses being built in other parts of the UK. However it experienced something of a resurgence in popularity due to the emergence of the gravity enduro mountain bike discipline. Recent years have seen the venue continuing to host British Cycling Federation sanctioned cross country mountain bike races at regional level, as well as national level gravity enduro races.\n\nA moderately difficult trail of 2.8 km in length, the Easty blue is aimed at beginners.\n\nThis 8 kilometer loop is graded Red for difficult and covers many of the venue's most popular descents including; Son and Daughter, Big Log and Topography. The latter of which passes the mine workings in the village of Snailbeach. The trail is approximately 8 kilometers in length and was built in partnership with The Eastridge Trail Partnership, Revelation is composed of tight twisty single track, off camber traverses, roots, rocks, ruts, climbs and hairpin bends. The natural, rough nature of the trail regularly divides opinion; with some favoring its rough natural terrain and others deriding it for its lack of bike park style features.\n\nIn 2006 the BUSA National Student Downhill Mountain biking championships were held at Eastridge after the venue was changed from Moelfre days before the event was due to take place. The course is graded black for experienced riders only and consists of a relatively flat but rocky top section with two jumps and a much steeper and very rocky bottom section. Beginning in 2009 the course has been included as a stage in several gravity enduro races including the UK gravity enduro series and is known for being fast, rocky and technical.\n\nAt just 0.5 km the 99 Nationals course is relatively short. The 99 Nationals course was used for the 1999 National Mountain Bike championships. Since then it has been used in regional level downhill races and national level gravity enduro races.\n\nEastridge is home to a large network of unmarked trails, many of which are used for races.\n\nAs Eastridge Trail Centre is free and run by volunteers facilities are limited to a small carpark.\n\n"}
{"id": "2491278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2491278", "title": "Ewa Laurance", "text": "Ewa Laurance\n\nLaurance has been playing pool since she was 14 years old. She moved to the United States in 1981 after competing at the New York City World Championships.\n\nLaurance has won numerous major women's pool titles, including the WPA World Nine-ball Championship, US Open Nine-ball Championship, WPBA National Nine-ball Championship, International Trickshot Championship and the Swedish and European 14.1 Championships.\n\nIn 2005, Laurance bested three of her peers, WPBA tour members Allison Fisher, Dawn Hopkins, and Gerda Hofstatter, at the Women's Trick Shot Challenge held at the New York Hotel Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada, pocketing US$25,000 as the grand prize. Animated and expressive, she played to the audience and the cameras, \"a true showperson in her element and a wonderful example to all trick shot artists.\" \n\nShe was the co-host of the GSN original game show \"Ballbreakers\". She has hosted the \"Ultimate Pool Party\" on ESPN. She has also been a model, appearing in TV commercials for No Nonsense brand pantyhose, and appeared on \"National Bingo Night\" on June 1, 2007. She frequently acts as a color commentator on ESPN telecasts of nine-ball tournaments, usually along with her husband Mitch Laurance. She has recently been featured on commercials featuring Dick's Pawn Shop in Myrtle Beach, SC.\n\nShe has authored three books, \"The Ewa Mataya Pool Guide\", \"The Complete Idiot's Guide to Pool & Billiards\", and \"Quick Start Guide to Pocket Billiards\". She has also written monthly columns for \"Pool & Billiard\" magazine.\n\nIn 1982, at the age of 17, she married the colorful pool pro Jimmy Mataya, fourteen years her senior, forming pool's first power couple. They later divorced, with Ewa retaining the surname Mataya, as she was already professionally well known by this name. They have a daughter, Nikki, born in 1985. \n\nIn 1994, she married actor Mitch Laurance, later also pool commentator for ESPN and twin brother of actor Matthew Laurance. She continues to introduce herself with the name Ewa Mataya Laurance and also signs autographs retaining the surname Mataya.\n\n"}
{"id": "19005888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19005888", "title": "Feral child", "text": "Feral child\n\nA feral child (also called wild child) is a human child who has lived isolated from human contact from a very young age, where they have little or no experience of human care, behavior or human language. There are several confirmed cases and other speculative ones. Feral children may have experienced severe abuse or trauma before being abandoned or running away. They are sometimes the subjects of folklore and legends, typically portrayed as having been raised by animals.\n\nFeral children lack the basic social skills that are normally learned in the process of enculturation. For example, they may be unable to learn to use a toilet, have trouble learning to walk upright after walking on fours all their lives, or display a complete lack of interest in the human activity around them. They often seem mentally impaired and have almost insurmountable trouble learning a human language. The impaired ability to learn a natural language after having been isolated for so many years is often attributed to the existence of a critical period for language learning, and taken as evidence in favor of the critical period hypothesis.\n\nThere is little scientific knowledge about feral children. One of the best-documented cases has supposedly been that of sisters Amala and Kamala, described by Reverend J. A. L. Singh in 1926 as having been \"raised by wolves\" in a forest in India. French surgeon Serge Aroles, however, has persuasively argued that the case was a fraud, perpetrated by Singh in order to raise money for his orphanage. Child psychologist Bruno Bettelheim states that Amala and Kamala were born mentally and physically disabled. Yet other scientific studies of feral children exist, such as the case of Genie.\n\nAround the 20th century, psychologists were attempting to differentiate between behavior and biological culture. Feral children who lived in isolation or with animals provided examples of this dilemma.\n\nPrior to the 1600s, feral and wild children stories were usually limited to myths and legends. In those tales, the depiction of feral children included hunting for food, running on all fours, and not knowing language. Philosophers and scientists were infatuated with such children, and began to question if these children were part of a different species from the human family.\n\nThe question was taken seriously as science tried to name and categorize the development of humans, and the understanding of the natural world in the 18th and 19th century.\n\nMarina Chapman lived with weeper capuchin monkeys in the Colombian jungle from the age of four to about nine, following a botched kidnapping in about 1954. Unusual for feral children, she went on to marry, have children and live a largely normal life with no persisting problems.\n\nRobert (1982) lost his parents in the Ugandan Civil War at the age of three, when Milton Obote's looting and murdering soldiers raided their village, around from Kampala. Robert then survived in the wild, presumably with vervet monkeys, for three years until he was found by soldiers.\n\nSaturday Mthiyane (or Mifune) (1987), a boy of around five, was found after spending about a year in the company of monkeys in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. He was given the name Saturday after the day he was found, and Mthiyane was the name of the headmistress of the Special School which took him in. In 2005, at the age of around 17, he could still not talk, and still walked and jumped like a monkey. He never ate cooked food and refused to share or play with other children.\n\nJohn Ssebunya, from Uganda, was a toddler when his mother died. Instead of going into a care facility, he went to live with vervet monkeys. For two years he learned how to forage and travel. The monkeys protected him in the wild. When he was around seven years old, he was brought back to civilization. The only form of communication he could do was cry, and he was described as always wanting food. Some considered him “wild” and “scary.” \n\nHessian wolf-children (1304, 1341 and 1344).\n\nMarcos Rodríguez Pantoja (ca. 1946, Sierra Morena, Spain) lived for 12 years with wolves in the mountains of Southern Spain. He was discovered at age 19. Rodríguez's story was depicted in the 2010 Spanish-German film \"Entrelobos\". For his portrayal of Rodríguez, young actor Manuel Camacho received a \"Best New Actor\" nomination at the \"2011 Goya Awards\".\n\nOxana Malaya was an eight-year-old girl who lived with dogs for six years. She was found in a kennel with dogs in 1991. She was neglected by her parents who were alcoholics. The three-year-old looking for comfort crawled into the farm and snuggled in with the dogs. Her behavior imitated dogs more than humans. She walked on all fours, bared her teeth, and barked. She was removed from her parents' custody by the social services. As she lacked human contact she did not know any words besides \"yes\" and \"no\". Upon adulthood, Oxana has been taught to subdue her dog-like behavior. She learned to speak fluently and intelligently and works at the farm milking cows, but remains somewhat intellectually impaired. Years later, Oxana admitted on a Russian talkshow that her story was slightly less dramatic; neglected by her parents, she sought out the company of the dogs and learned to imitate them as they were more responsive than her parents.\n\nIvan Mishukov, a six-year-old boy was rescued by the police in 1998 from wild dogs, who he lived with for two years. He ran from his mother and her abusive alcoholic boyfriend at the age of four. He earned the dogs' trust by giving them food and in return the dogs protected him. The boy had risen to being \"alpha male\" of the pack. When the police found him, they set a trap for him and the dogs by leaving food in a restaurant kitchen. Because he had lived among the dogs for only two years, he relearned language fairly rapidly. He studied in military school and served in the Russian Army.\n\nA 10-year-old Chilean boy (Dog Boy) was abandoned by his parents, lived with street dogs who hunted for food with him, and may have nursed him. At the age of five, the boy was abandoned by his parents and escaped a child care facility with 15 street dogs. The boy lived in a cave with the stray dogs and searched for food with them. He would search garbage cans to find leftover food to eat. He was raised by dogs since he was little. In 2001, he was found by the police, and he tried to escape by going into the water. However, he was caught and hospitalized.\n\nTraian Căldărar, Romania (found in 2002) also known as \"the Romanian Dog Boy\" or \"Mowgli\". From the ages of four to seven, Trajan lived without his family. The boy was found at the age of seven and was described as a three-year-old due to undernutrition. His mother had left her home because of domestic violence, and Traian ran from home sometime after his mother left. He lived in the wild and took shelter in a cardboard box. He suffered from infected wounds, having poor circulation, and a children's disease caused by vitamin D deficiency. Traian was found by Manolescu Ioan, who had been walking across the country after his car broke down. In the surrounding area, a dog that had been eaten was also found. Many assume that the boy was eating the dog to stay alive. When Traian was being cared for, he would usually sleep under the bed and wanted to eat all the time. In 2007, Traian was being taken care of by his grandfather and was doing well in 3rd grade at school. Now, he is a normal child who likes football and mathematics.\n\nAndrei Tolstyk (2004) was raised by dogs in a remote part of Siberia from the age of three months to 7 years. He was neglected by his parents because he had speaking and hearing problems. Social workers who found the boy were curious about why the boy was not admitted to his local school. This boy was not able to talk as he lacked human interaction and had many dog-like characteristics including walking on all fours, biting people, and sniffing his food before eating.\n\nMadina, a three-year-old girl. Madina lived with dogs from birth until she was three years old. She slept with them in the cold, ate food with them, and played with them. Her father left her after she was born, and her mother became an alcoholic. She never looked after Madina since she was always too drunk and Madina would chew on bones from the floor with the dogs. When social workers found Madina in 2013, she acted like dogs and was not wearing any clothes. Madina was being taken care of and the doctors said that she was mentally and physically healthy even after what she had gone through.\n\nThe three Lithuanian bear-boys (1657, 1669, 1694) – Serge Aroles shows from the archives of the Queen of Poland (1664–1688) that these are false. There was only one boy, found in the forests in spring 1663 and then brought to Poland's capital.\n\nAn Irish boy brought up by sheep, reported by Nicolaes Tulp in his book \"Observationes Medicae\" (1672). Serge Aroles gives evidence that this boy was severely disabled and exhibited for money.\n\nA fourteen-year-old boy also known as the sheep boy, was found in the former Soviet Union living in a sheep flock. He was raised by sheep for 8 years. He had no communication skills and could not use the toilet. His parents left to find work and was left with his grandmother. His grandmother took care of him until she passed away.\n\nThe Bamberg boy – who grew up among cattle (late 16th century).\n\nDaniel, Andes Goat Boy (1990) lived in the wild for about 8 years. He was discovered in the mountains of Peru and was raised by goats. He walked and ran on all fours with the mountain goats. He drank goat's milk, ate berries, and roots.\n\nThe \"ostrich boy\" – A boy named Hadara was lost by his parents in the Sahara desert at the age of two, and was adopted by ostriches. At the age of 12, he was rescued and taken back to society and his parents. He later married and had children. The story of Hadara is often told in west Sahara. In 2000, Hadara's son Ahmedu told his father's story to the Swedish author Monica Zak, who compiled it to a book. The book is a mixture of the stories told by Ahmedu and Zak's own fantasy.\n\nJean de Liege. Described by natural philosopher Sir Kenelm Digby in his book 'Two Treatises' (1644).\n\nThe girl of Oranienburg (1717).\n\nThe two Pyrenean boys (1719).\n\nPeter the Wild Boy of Hamelin (1724) – Mentally handicapped boy, affected with Pitt-Hopkins Syndrome. He lived only one year in the wild.\n\nMarie-Angelique Memmie Le Blanc, was a famous feral child of the 18th century in France who was known as The Wild Girl of Champagne, The Maid of Châlons, or The Wild Child of Songy. Marie-Angélique survived for ten years living wild in the forests of France, between the ages of nine and 19, before she was captured by villagers in Songy in Champagne in September 1731. She was likely born in 1712 as a Native American of the Meskwaki (or \"Fox\") people, and brought to France in 1720; or she was born in an unknown location in 1721. Marie died in Paris in 1775. Documents show that she learned to read and write as an adult, thus making her unique among feral children. \n\nHany Istók (a.k.a. Steve of the Marsh) of Kapuvár, Hungary (1749). According to documents stored at the Catholic parish of Kapuvár, an abandoned child was once found in a marshy lakeside forest by two fishermen. He was brought to the town of Kapuvár, where he was christened and received the name Steven. The local governor took him to his castle and tried to raised him up, but the boy eventually escaped and ran back to the forest. Later, numerous folk tales developed around his character, depicting him as a \"half fish, half human creature\" who lived in a nearby lake.\n\nKaspar Hauser (early 19th century), portrayed in the 1974 Werner Herzog film \"The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser\" (\"Jeder für sich und Gott gegen alle\").\n\nRamachandra (1970s and 1980s) – First reported in 1973 in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, at roughly 12 years old, and as living an amphibian lifestyle in the Kuano river. He was rescued in 1979 and taken to a nearby village. He only partly adapted to a conventional lifestyle, still preferring raw food, walking with an awkward gait, and spending most of his time alone in nearby rivers and streams. He died in 1982 after approaching a woman who was frightened by him, and who badly scalded Ramachandra with boiling water. Historian Mike Dash speculates that Ramachandra's uncharacteristically bold approach to the woman was sparked by a burgeoning sexual attraction coupled with his ignorance of cultural mores and taboos.\n\nCambodian jungle girl (2007) – Alleged to be Rochom P'ngieng, who lived 19 years in the Cambodian jungle. Other sources questioned these claims.\n\nName Unknown, Uzbekistan, (2007) – Found after eight years.\n\nNg Chhaidy, Theiva near Saiha, Mizoram, India (2012) – She went missing in a jungle aged four, returning 38 years later.\n\nVicente Caucau (1948) – Chilean boy found in a savage state at age 12, allegedly raised by pumas.\n\nThe historian Herodotus wrote that Egyptian pharaoh Psammetichus I (Psamtik) sought to discover the origin of language by conducting an experiment with two children. Allegedly, he gave two newborn babies to a shepherd, with the instructions that no one should speak to them, but that the shepherd should feed and care for them while listening to determine their first words. The hypothesis was that the first word would be uttered in the root language of all people. When one of the children cried “\"bekos\"” (a sound quite similar to the bleating of sheep) with outstretched arms the shepherd concluded that the word was Phrygian because that was the sound of the Phrygian word for bread. Thus, they concluded that the Phrygians were an older people than the Egyptians.\n\nThe Lobo Wolf Girl of Devil's River (1845) – A figure in Texas folklore, was captured in 1846, but escaped. She was last spotted at age 17 in 1852.\n\nIsabelle (1938) was almost seven years old when she was discovered. She had spent the first years of her life isolated in a dark room with her deaf-mute mother as her only contact. Only seven months later, she had learned a vocabulary of around 1,500 to 2,000 words. She is reported to have acquired normal linguistic abilities.\n\nAnna (1938) was six years old when she was found, having been kept in a dark room for most of her life. She was born in March 1932 in Pennsylvania, United States. She was her mother's second illegitimate child. Her mother had tried to give Anna up for several months but no agency was willing to take the financial burden, as this was during the Great Depression. Anna was kept in a store room at least until she was five and half, out of the way of her disapproving grandfather, who was infuriated by her presence. Her mother also resented her, considering her troublesome. She was tied to a broken chair which was too small for her, and is believed to have also been tied to a cot for long periods of time. She was mostly fed milk and was never bathed, trained, or caressed by anyone. When she was found, she was suffering from malnutrition as well as muscle atrophy. She was immobile, expressionless, and indifferent to everything. She was believed to be deaf as she did not respond to others (later it was found that her deafness was functional rather than physical). She could not talk, walk, feed herself, or do anything that showed signs of cognition. Once she was taken away and placed in a foster home, she showed signs of improvement. At the age of nine she began to develop speech. She had started to conform to social norms and was able to feed herself, though only using a spoon. Her teachers described her as having a pleasant disposition. Anna passed away in August 1942 of hemorrhagic jaundice.\n\nGenie, discovered 1970 in Los Angeles. Confined to one room and abused by her father for 13 years.\n\nSujit Kumar (1979), named the “Chicken Boy of Fiji” by the media, was born with cerebral palsy and epilepsy. Sujit's mother committed suicide when he was a toddler and his father left him confined under the house to live with the chickens. Sujit was rescued while still a boy and committed to the Samabula Old People's Home where he was confined to his room and tied to his bed. He could not speak and his only verbalisation was clucking; his only interaction with people consisted of outbursts. Sujit remained at the old people's home for 20 years until he was found by Elizabeth Clayton, a wealthy businesswoman who founded the Happy Home Trust to care for Sujit and other at risk Fijian children. Sujit's behaviour has improved, but he will never learn to speak and he remains profoundly disabled.\n\nDanielle Crockett, Plant City, Florida, United States (2007–2008), had been locked in her room and deprived of any human interaction for the first 7 years of her life, causing a variety of severe developmental delays. She was found and adopted and is currently undergoing efforts to acclimate her to human conditioning including learning English and effective communication. As of 2017, Dani now lives in a group home.\n\nVanya Yudin, (\"Russian bird boy\"), Russia, (2008), a seven-year-old boy was found who spent his entire life living in a tiny two bedroom apartment surrounded by birds. His mother never spoke to him and treated him as a pet, and when found he was unable to communicate except for chirping and flapping his arms like wings.\n\nNatasha, Chita, Zabaykalsky Krai, Russia (2009), a five-year-old girl who spent her entire life locked in a room with cats and dogs, and no heat, water, or sewage system. When she was found, she could not speak, would jump at the door and bark as caretakers left, and had \"clear attributes of an animal\".\n\nFollowing the 2008 disclosure by Belgian newspaper \"Le Soir\" that the bestselling book \"\" and movie \"Survivre avec les loups\" (“\"Surviving with Wolves”\") was a media hoax, the French media debated the credulity with which numerous cases of feral children have been unquestioningly accepted. Although there are numerous books on these children, almost none of them have been based on archives; the authors instead have used dubious second- or third-hand printed information. According to the French surgeon Serge Aroles, who wrote a general study of feral children based on archives (\"L'Enigme des Enfants-loups\" or \"The Enigma of Wolf-children\", 2007), many alleged cases are totally fictitious stories:\n\nMyths, legends, and fiction have depicted feral children reared by wild animals such as wolves, apes, monkeys, and bears. Famous examples include Romulus and Remus, Ibn Tufail’s Hayy, Ibn al-Nafis’ Kamil, Rudyard Kipling’s Mowgli, Edgar Rice Burroughs’s Tarzan, George of the Jungle and the legends of Atalanta and Enkidu.\nRoman legend has it that Romulus and Remus, twin sons of Rhea Silvia and Mars, were suckled by a she-wolf. Rhea Silvia was a priestess, and when it was found that she had been pregnant and had children, King Amulius, who had usurped his brother's throne, ordered her to be buried alive and for the children to be killed. The servant who was given the order set them in a basket on the Tiber river instead, and the children were taken by Tiberinus, the river god, to the shore where a she-wolf found them and raised them until they were discovered as toddlers by a shepherd named Faustulus. He and his wife Acca Larentia, who had always wanted a child but never had one, raised the twins, who would later feature prominently in the events leading up to the founding of Rome (named after Romulus, who eventually killed Remus in a fight over whether the city should be founded on the Palatine Hill or the Aventine Hill).\n\nLegendary and fictional children are often depicted as growing up with relatively normal human intelligence and skills and an innate sense of culture or civilization, coupled with a healthy dose of survival instincts. Their integration into human society is made to seem relatively easy. One notable exception is Mowgli, for whom living with humans proved to be extremely difficult.\n\nThe subject is treated with a certain amount of realism in François Truffaut’s 1970 film \"L’Enfant Sauvage\" (UK: \"The Wild Boy\", US: \"The Wild Child\"), where a scientist's efforts in trying to rehabilitate a feral boy meet with great difficulty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8792628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8792628", "title": "Food Fighters", "text": "Food Fighters\n\nFood Fighters was an action figure collection released by Mattel in 1989. Proverbial for the concept of a food fight, the figures were all different types of anthropomorphic food dressed in military gear. Food Fighters consisted of ten figures and three accessory toys; a refrigerator playset was also designed but never produced. The characters were divided into two armies: the protagonist Kitchen Commandos and the antagonist Refrigerator Rejects. Each figure was made of a soft, hollow plastic similar to a squeaky toy and included a small hand weapon and removable backpack. The tagline on the figures' packaging read, \"Combat At Its Kookiest!\"\n\nFood Fighters were commonly sold at small discount store chains like Hills or Ben Franklin.\n\nThe Kitchen Commandos wore black boots, green clothing, and carried red weapons.\n\nThe Refrigerator Rejects wore brown boots, black clothing, and carried blue weapons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58305656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58305656", "title": "Frank P. Banta", "text": "Frank P. Banta\n\nFrank P. Banta (March 29, 1870 - November 30, 1903) was an American pianist and recording artist active in the 1890s and 1900s. \n\nBanta was born in New York City to John William Banta and Frances Green Banta (Darrow). He learned to play piano while working as a piano tuner, and by 1893 was the house pianist for the New York Phonograph Company (a subsidiary of the North American Phonograph Company). By December of the same year, he was leading \"Banta's Parlor Orchestra\" for the North American Phonograph Company. He recorded as a piano accompanist and as leader of \"Banta's Orchestra\" for Walcutt and Leeds by 1896, and may have done the same for Walcutt, Miller & Co., its predecessor, in the intervening years. Banta's Orchestra recorded 15 cylinders for the Columbia Phonograph Company in 1896. The Chicago Talking Machine Company also marketed recordings by Banta's Orchestra, though it's unclear whether they recorded them or duplicated records taken by another company.\n\nThe bulk of Frank P. Banta's recording activity was as the house pianist of Edison's National Phonograph Company. His death notice in the company's trade paper \"Edison Phonograph Monthly\", \nnoted \"His were the hands that played the piano accompaniments to more than half of the records in the Edison catalogue\". He also recorded for Edison one solo of his own composition, \"Violets\" (Edison Gold Moulded no. 8394). He recorded three sides for Victor in September 1903, one piano solo (Hello! Ma Baby) and two accompaniments for cornetist Herbert L. Clarke.\n\nBanta was an early adopter and proponent of ragtime and his accompaniments are some of the earliest recorded examples of the style. He was also regarded as a reliable powerhouse, who could play the same pieces many times over before mass-duplication of records was reliably available. In addition to his recording work, Banta composed at least 14 pieces between 1895 and 1903, primarily ragtime piano solos or popular songs, and arranged the famous \"Laughing Song\" popularized by George W. Johnson.\n\nFrank P. Banta was the father of the somewhat more famous pianist Frank E. Banta, who recorded prolifically between 1916 and 1939, especially for Victor. Frank P. Banta died in New York aged 33 after an extended period of poor health.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14721436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14721436", "title": "Geography of chess", "text": "Geography of chess\n\nChess is played all over the world. The international governing body of chess is FIDE, established in 1924. Most national chess federations are now members of FIDE; several supranational chess organizations are also affiliated with FIDE.\n\nThe table below lists the member federations of FIDE and their national championship. The number of grandmasters and players registered for each federation in the FIDE database as of September 2016 are also indicated.\n\nThe list below includes nations that no longer exist as well as national federations that are currently not members of FIDE.\n"}
{"id": "6305686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6305686", "title": "Glossary of Colombian music", "text": "Glossary of Colombian music\n\nThis page is a glossary of Colombian music.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17466677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17466677", "title": "IXIT Corporation", "text": "IXIT Corporation\n\n, formerly known as , is a Japanese corporate information and communications technology company owned by Sawada Holdings.\n\n\"Index Corporation\" was a corporate name used by three different Japanese companies, between 1997 and 2016, the last one being founded in April 2014. All three incarnations of Index Corporation have been linked to the video game brand Atlus at one time or another. The original Index Corporation was founded in 1995 and acquired Atlus in 2006. It went bankrupt in June 2013 while still owning Atlus.\n\nIn September 2013, Sega created the shell corporation Sega Dream Corporation with the sole intent of purchasing the assets of Index Corporation. Sega Dream was renamed Index Corporation in November 2013 and gained possession of Atlus' name and intellectual properties. In April 1, 2014, the new Index Corporation was renamed Atlus, but was amputated from its non-gaming business that Sega transferred the same day to a new company called Index Corporation. In 2015, Sega sold Index Corporation to Sawada Holdings. Index Corporation was renamed as iXIT Corporation in July 2016.\n\nIndex Corporation Ltd. was founded on 1 September 1995 as a mobile content service provider. It adopted the name of Index by 1997 and expanded into one of Japan's most successful companies, with acquisitions into several communications and entertainment ventures, including the anime studio Madhouse, game companies Atlus and Interchannel, and major movie studio Nikkatsu. It also made inroads into numerous worldwide ventures, including the United States, United Kingdom and France, where it owned the football club Grenoble Foot 38, which, upon Index's acquisition, achieved promotion to Ligue 1. Up to 2013, Index Corporation had sold most of its subsidiaries. In June 2013, following investigations for fraud, Index Corporation was forced to file for civil rehabilitation bankruptcy.\n\nOn November 9, 2010, Index Holdings (株式会社インデックス・ホールディングス) announced its renaming to Index Corporation (株式会社インデックス), to be confirmed on the 15th shareholders meeting on 25 November 2010, effective on 1 December 2010. On June 27, 2013, following an investigation for fraud, Index Corporation filed for civil rehabilitation bankruptcy due to a debt consisting of 24.5 billion yen.\n\nOn September 18, 2013, it was reported that Sega Sammy Holdings had won a bid to acquire Index for 14 billion yen. Sega Sammy Holdings denied taking over Index Corporation at first, however it announced later that day that Index Corporation would sell the digital game business, contents and solution business, and amusement business to Sega Dream Corporation (株式会社セガドリーム), a subsidiary of Sega Corporation established on September 5, 2013 effective on November 1, 2013. The sales covered fixed assets and intellectual property assets of the announced operations, which included Atlus Holding, Inc. (parent company of Index Digital Media, Inc.), Tiger Mob Limited, Index Corp (Thailand) Ltd., Mobi Town Ltd. However, liabilities including interest-bearing debts would not be taken over. On November 1, 2013, Sega announced that it will rename its subsidiary, Sega Dream Corporation, to Index Corporation (株式会社　インデックス). On February 18, 2014, Sega and Index Corporation announced the separation of Index Corporation's contents and solution businesses into a new subsidiary under the name 'Index Corporation' (株式会社インデックス), while renaming the 'old' Index Corporation and its remaining digital game business division into 'Atlus' (株式会社アトラス), effective on April 1, 2014. The new Atlus would also include the foreign subsidiary Index Digital Media, Inc., which would be renamed to Atlus U.S.A., Inc. at the effective establishment day of the new Atlus.\n\nOn May 28, 2014, Masami Ochiai, Chairman of the former Index Corporation, and his wife Yoshimi Ochiai, president of the company, were arrested by the Tokyo District Public Prosectors Office on suspicion of falsifying stock reports for the company.\n\nOn December 1, 2015, as part of a structural reform within the Sega Sammy Holdings group, Sega Holdings sold its shares of Index Corporation to the insurance and financial company, Sawada Holdings. Through this business transfer, Index Corporation became a wholly owned subsidiary of Sawada Holdings. On July 1, 2016, Index Corporation changed its name to iXIT Corporation.\n\nIndex Asia Ltd., formerly known as Index Corporation Thailand Ltd., is a mobile content and service provider in Thailand that was established in April 2002. Once Index Corporation Thailand Ltd. was amalgamated with Mobi Town Ltd., and Tiger Mob Ltd., the company was re-branded as Index Asia Ltd.\n\nThey are a subsidiary of iXIT Corporation that provides mobile software application, licensing and application development services within Thailand. Index Asia Ltd. has a distinctive business structure with three primary services, the Game Publishing & Game Management Services: the service dedicated to video game development and publishing, the Application Development & Solution Provider: the services dedicated to original mobile application developments, and the Mobile Content Aggregator & Provider Services: the services dedicated to mobile content and licensing distribution.\n\nIndex Corporation Thailand Ltd., was renamed to Index Asia Ltd. effective 1 July 2015. This was achieved through an amalgamation of Index Corporations remaining subsidiaries: Mobi Town Ltd. and Tiger Mob Ltd. being absorbed into Index Corporation Thailand Ltd. and the surviving company being renamed to Index Asia Ltd. The process was accomplished in the Ministry of Commerce of Thailand.\n\nOn December 1, 2015, when the Sega Holdings group sold its shares of Index Corporation to Sawada Holdings, Index Asia Ltd. was transferred over alongside Index Corporation.\n\n"}
{"id": "621526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=621526", "title": "John Virgo", "text": "John Virgo\n\nJohn Virgo (born 3 March 1946 in Salford, Lancashire) is an English former professional snooker player and more recently a snooker commentator and TV personality.\n\nVirgo’s first notable appearance in a major tournament was during the 1973 American Pool Tournament for The Indoor League where he lost in the semi final. Virgo turned professional in 1976, at a time when players such as Ray Reardon, John Spencer and Eddie Charlton were at the forefront of the sport. Although he had just turned 30 upon turning pro, he was still among the youngest players on the circuit at the time.\nIn 1977 Virgo reached the semi finals of the UK Championship losing to eventual winner Patsy Fagan.\n\nHis snooker-playing fortunes peaked in 1979 when he reached the semi-final of the World Championship, and went on to win the 1979 UK Championship (though this was not a ranking event at the time). En route to the final Virgo beat Tony Meo, Steve Davis and Dennis Taylor. In the final he overcame the reigning world champion Terry Griffiths despite being controversially docked two frames because of a miscommunication regarding the start time of the next session of play. He reached the Top 10 in the world rankings the following season.\nIn 1986 Virgo reached the semi finals of the British Open losing 9-4 to Willie Thorne. Virgo, ending the 1989–1990 season as world number 14, dropped out of the top 16 next season.\n\nIn 1993 Virgo entered the qualifying stages of the Grand Prix and the UK Championship but failed to qualify for the main events, losing both times in round seven.\nVirgo retired from professional play in 1995.\n\nVirgo, as part of his exhibition performances, had long performed trick shots and comedic impressions of other snooker players. During the 1981 World Championship, he performed some of his impressions, including Alex 'Hurricane' Higgins, Steve Davis and Ray Reardon. He repeated this act in further World Championships, usually after semi-finals ended earlier than expected.\n\nHe is now a TV snooker commentator who works primarily during the BBC's coverage of ranking events. From 1991 to 2002, Virgo was co-presenter of the snooker-based TV game show \"Big Break\" with Jim Davidson. During each show, Virgo participated in the \"trick shots\" segment, where a competitor who had been ousted from the main quiz would try to copy a complicated snooker shot performed by Virgo in order to win a prize.\n\nVirgo is well known for shouting \"where's the going?\" during his commentaries if a player plays a shot in such a way that the cueball gets in any sort of proximity to a pocket. Virgo would also similarly say another ball in place of the cueball, if another ball is , or very close to the pocket.\n\nVirgo's tribute book to the late Alex Higgins, \"Let Me Tell You About Alex\", was published in February 2011 and described as \"explosive\". In April 2012, his book \"Amazing Snooker Trick Shots\" was published.\n\nIn 2012 Virgo featured in Nicholas Gleaves' debut radio play Sunk who guides a young man in his dream of becoming a snooker\nchampion while battling to avoid a life of crime. This was broadcast on BBC Radio 4\n\nVirgo has recently worked with a pool and snooker table company called Liberty Games to create a web-based series of trick shot videos known as the Trick Shot Academy.\n\nIn 2014 Virgo released a trick shot app, \"John Virgo's Snooker Trick Shots\", available on Apple and Android devices. It has Virgo performing 45 trick shots and contains diagrams and video clips for each. It also has Alex 'Hurricane' Higgins performing three trick shots including 'Higgins Goes Bananas'.\n\nVirgo is currently embarking on a new venture, opening a new vegan cafe, Virgo's Vegan Cafe, in his home city of Salford, with help from fellow snooker player and friend Peter Ebdon.\n\nJohn Virgo lives in Cobham Surrey. He has two children, a son Gary from his first marriage and a daughter Brook Leah from his second marriage. He separated from his second wife, Avril, in 1991, after 18 years together. In 2009, he married Rosie Ries, then deputy managing director at John Blake Publishing.\nVirgo was once gunged on \"Noel's House Party\". Virgo is a fan of the football club Manchester United F.C.. In 1996 he appeared as a celebrity contestant on the short-lived Saturday night BBC light entertainment show \"Full Swing\", alongside John Lodge from The Moody Blues and former Tottenham goalkeeper Pat Jennings; he did not make the final.\n\n"}
{"id": "29644257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29644257", "title": "Jon Winokur", "text": "Jon Winokur\n\nJon Winokur (born August 5, 1947) is an American writer and editor.\n\nBorn in Detroit, the son of Martin M. and Elinor Winokur, he attended Temple University (BA, 1970) and the University of West Los Angeles (JD, 1980).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18253473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18253473", "title": "Kramers Ergot", "text": "Kramers Ergot\n\nKramers Ergot is a series of anthology-style books of comic art edited by Sammy Harkham.\n\n\"Kramers Ergot\" started as a mini-comic self-published by Sammy Harkham under the imprint Avodah Books. Issues 4 and 5 were published by Gingko Press, while issues 6 and 7 were published by Buenaventura Press. \n\nPublished in November 2008, \"Kramers Ergot\" 7 features almost 60 artists and is larger (16\" by 21\") and more expensive ($125) than previous editions.\n\nAn eighth volume was released in January 2012 from PictureBox.\n\nA ninth volume was released in April 2016 from Fantagraphics Books.\n\nA Quimby's blog item promoting multiple touring artists said:\n\n"}
{"id": "15499340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15499340", "title": "LBC Nagham", "text": "LBC Nagham\n\nLBC Nagham is a Lebanese musical television channel and is LBC Group's musical brand. Launched in 2003, as the brand's name (; \"nağam\") suggests, it is one of the first specialised music channels launched in the region.\n\n"}
{"id": "37329019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37329019", "title": "Massaya TV", "text": "Massaya TV\n\nMassaya TV (Arabic قناة مسايا الفضائية) is a private Syrian satellite television station based in Damascus and in Dubai. It is specializing in broadcasting events, concerts and weddings particular in Syria and the Arab World. Massaya TV offers also interviews with specialists in beauty and make-up and also specialists in art lighting and photography.\n\nOne of the most important programs produced by the channel in Syria are:\nThe channel also produces programs in Egypt like:\nAs well as programs of Dubai Events and Arab Weddings from different places.\n\nMassaya TV has many offices around the Arab World, most notably in Syria, which is the main office and other offices are in Dubai, Cairo and Lebanon.\n\n"}
{"id": "15970494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15970494", "title": "Parques Reunidos", "text": "Parques Reunidos\n\nParques Reunidos is an international entertainment operator based in Madrid, Spain. The group operates over 50 parks in almost a dozen countries. Parques Reunidos operates theme and amusement parks, zoos, water parks, family entertainment centers, and cable cars. These facilities are located in Spain, Belgium, Norway, Denmark, France, Italy, the United Kingdom, Argentina, and the United States. Through acquisitions of established names such as Kennywood Entertainment Company, Dutch Wonderland and Palace Entertainment, Parques Reunidos greatly expanded its presence in American amusement operations beginning in 2007 through today. Annual visitors to the group's attractions exceed 22 million, with revenue exceeding $570 million (USD). In January 2007, Parques Reunidos was acquired by the British private equity firm, Candover Investments. In 2008 it had the fifth-highest attendance figures for worldwide chains with 24.9 million, ahead of Busch Entertainment Corporation and Cedar Fair.\n\nParques Reunidos is owned by London-based private equity firm Arle Capital Partners (established in April 2011), which took over the Candover Partners fund the theme park group had been a part of since 2007.\n\n\n\n\nThe company operates two cable cars in Spain.\n\n"}
{"id": "36699915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36699915", "title": "Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters", "text": "Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters\n\nPercy Jackson: Sea of Monsters (also known as Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Sea of Monsters) is a 2013 American fantasy adventure film directed by Thor Freudenthal. It is the second installment in the \"Percy Jackson\" film series and is based on the novel \"The Sea of Monsters\" by Rick Riordan. It is a stand-alone sequel to the 2010 film \"\".\n\nThe film continues the adventures of Percy Jackson (Logan Lerman) and his friends, as they search for the Golden Fleece at the Sea of Monsters. Brandon T. Jackson, Alexandra Daddario, and Jake Abel reprise their roles from the previous film, while Nathan Fillion and Anthony Head replace Dylan Neal and Pierce Brosnan. New additions to the cast include Leven Rambin, Douglas Smith, and Stanley Tucci. The film was produced by Michael Barnathan and Karen Rosenfelt. Chris Columbus, who directed \"\", serves as executive producer. The plot centers on Percy and his friends as they journey to the eponymous Sea of Monsters to retrieve the Golden Fleece in order to save the tree (barrier) that protects their home.\n\nThe film was released in North America on August 7, 2013, receiving mixed critical reviews and grossing around $200 million at the box office. The film was released on 3D Blu-ray, Blu-ray, and DVD on December 17, 2013.\n\nWhile in Camp Half-Blood, Percy recounts the story of Thalia and her sacrifice. A young Annabeth, Luke, Grover and Thalia are running to Camp Half-Blood while being pursued by monsters. Thalia sacrifices herself to get the others into the camp, and her father Zeus turns her into a tree which forms a barrier around it.The campers realize that Thalia's tree has been poisoned by Luke and they are vulnerable to attacks. Percy visits the Oracle, who tells him of a prophecy of a half-blood of the eldest gods either saving or destroying Olympus. Chiron tells Percy that he is the only living, human half-blood of the eldest gods, so the half-blood in the Prophecy may refer to him. Annabeth and Grover learn about the Golden Fleece, which has the power to heal anything, and propose a quest in which they retrieve the Fleece and use it to heal Thalia's tree. Mr. D chooses Clarisse to lead the quest, much to Annabeth's and Percy's dismay. Percy convinces Grover and Annabeth to accompany him on the quest, and Tyson joins them. Annabeth hails the Chariot of Damnation, and Percy threatens the three drivers (the Graeae) to tell him of his prophecy, giving him coordinates for the Sea of Monsters (the Bermuda Triangle) before ejecting the group from the cab in Washington D.C. because they lack money. While walking down the street, Grover is kidnapped by Chris Rodriguez and taken to Luke. Percy, Annabeth, and Tyson first locate Luke with the help of Hermes, then ride a Hippokampos to his yacht, the \"Andromeda\". Luke reveals his plan to revive Kronos using the Fleece so Olympus will be destroyed. Percy and they are then locked in the brig, though they later escape when Percy uses his ability to manipulate water.\n\nThe group is consumed by Charybdis, and they discover Clarisse in the monster's stomach. Percy and Clarisse work together to escape Charybdis by shooting a hole through its gut, and soon they arrive at Circeland, Polyphemus's lair. Percy finds Grover, and the five escape Polyphemus, retrieving the fleece and trapping him in his cave. Afterwards, Luke arrives and demands the fleece from Percy, who refuses. Luke shoots a crossbow bolt at Percy, but Tyson takes the bolt in the chest and falls into the water below.\n\nLuke begins reviving Kronos and Annabeth encourages Percy to take leadership. The team escapes captivity, and Percy grapples with Luke over the Fleece, like the prophecy said they would, but Luke easily gains the upper hand. Luke is suddenly thrown away by Tyson, revealed to have survived his wound due to the water healing it, as he is Poseidon's son. Kronos rises from the sarcophagus and consumes Luke and Grover before battling Percy. Percy realizes that Riptide is the \"cursed blade\" of the prophecy and slices Kronos into pieces imprisoning Kronos in the sarcophagus once again, causing him to regurgitate Grover and Luke, the latter landing in Polyphemus's Lair. Their victory is short lived as Annabeth is stabbed by the Manticore, who is killed in turn by Clarisse and Grover. Annabeth dies in Percy's arms but is resurrected by the Fleece. Percy then gives the fleece to Clarisse, and they return to Camp Half-Blood. Clarisse places the fleece on Thalia's tree. The group returns the next day to find Thalia alive, as the fleece returned her to human form.\n\nPercy realizes that Thalia, as a child of Zeus, is another possible child of the prophecy about either preserving or destroying Olympus. The film ends showing the sarcophagus with Kronos's remains in it glowing, implying that Kronos still has some degree of his power, and is still planning to return.\n\n\n\nReports of a second \"Percy Jackson\" film first surfaced in March 2011. On October 12, 2011, a sequel was officially confirmed by 20th Century Fox. Filming for \"Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters\" began on April 16, 2012. The film was originally going to be released on March 15, 2013, but in May 2012, the release date was postponed to August 16, 2013. In April 2013, a final release date was set for August 7, 2013. Filming took place in Robert Burnaby Park in Burnaby, B.C.; however from June 20 to July 22, they filmed in New Orleans for Princess Andromeda scenes, including the former site of Six Flags New Orleans. More filming took place in January 2013. On January 22, 2013, Logan Lerman released a statement on Twitter that read \"Last day of shooting on Percy Jackson 2\" accompanied by a photo of the shooting.\n\nIn February 2011, it was revealed in the online subscription magazine \"Production Weekly\" that the film was in production. In another source, the lead cast members from the first movie were expected to return for their roles. Chris Columbus would not be returning as director, though he would be producing the movie together with Karen Rosenfelt (producer of the \"Twilight\" movie \"Breaking Dawn\"). Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski were hired as the scriptwriters. Marc Guggenheim was hired to re-write the screenplay and Alexander and Karaszewski were uncredited. On June 16, 2011, it was announced that Thor Freudenthal would be directing the movie. Shooting began in summer 2012. On October 12, 2011, it was announced that the film would be released on March 26, 2013. On April 6, it was announced that the movie was pushed up to August 7, 2013. On May 31, 2012, it was announced that the movie had been pushed back to August 16, 2013.\n\nOn January 13, 2012, a brand new production list was released and stated that filming would take place between April 26, 2012 and July 11, 2012. It was filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia, and New Orleans, Louisiana, with the abandoned Six Flags New Orleans also serving as a filming location. Filming wrapped up in July and then started again in January for reshoots. It wrapped up on January 22, 2013.\n\nFive official stills were released on March 21, 2013. On April 2, the trailer for the film was uploaded on YouTube. A teaser poster was released on April 16. A second trailer was released on May 29, 2013. A third international trailer was released on the June 25, 2013, on YouTube. Since July 19, three TV spots have been released known as \"Story\", \"Cast\" and \"Family\". A clip from the film was released on the internet on July 23, where it was later uploaded onto YouTube. Later many more new clips were released.\n\nSmart & Final stores in California, Arizona, and Nevada offered Hollywood Movie Money Certificate good for one free movie ticket with the purchase of two First Street Bakery items as part of the movie promotion.\n\nThe film received mixed reviews. The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 41% approval rating with an average rating of 5.1/10 based on 111 reviews. The website's consensus reads, \"It's pretty and packed with action; unfortunately, \"Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters\" is also waterlogged with characters and plots that can't help but feel derivative.\" On Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 based on reviews from critics, the film has a score of 39 based on 33 collected reviews, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\".\n\nJim Vejvoda of IGN rated the movie a 6 out of 10: \"There are worse sequels than the CG-heavy \"Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters\", but it's just such overly familiar territory.\" Gary Goldstein of the \"Los Angeles Times\" gave the film a positive review, saying that \"tweens and young teens should be sufficiently distracted by the movie's brisk pace and heroic mayhem — if they're not too unnerved by its at times nightmarish imagery\". James Rocchi of ScreenCrush wrote that the film \"is hardly the stuff of legend, but by keeping the plot straightforward and the storytelling clean, it's an odyssey the intended young audience will be glad to take.\" Marsha McCreadie on RogerEbert.com rated the film two and a half stars out of four, calling it \"a gentler-spirited, less flashy enterprise, though it still presents a natural world that can morph at the whim of a god.\"\n\nAndy Webster of \"The New York Times\" commented: \"\"Sea of Monsters\" is diverting enough — the director, Thor Freudenthal ... is savvy with effects and keeps his young cast on point — but it doesn’t begin to approach the biting adolescent tension of the \"Harry Potter\" movies.\" However, Michael Rechtshaffen of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" criticized the film as \"lack[ing] the energetic zip of its predecessor,\" while Bruce Ingram of \"Chicago Sun-Times\" opined that \"faithful fans of the novels will be unhappy with the liberties taken with the adaptation like they were with the first film.\" Connie Ogle of \"The Miami Herald\" wrote, \"[Are] these characters merely prisoners — much like the audience — of a script so uninspired that it demands their stupidity?\" Josh Bell of \"Las Vegas Weekly\" lambasted the series as a whole as \"a thoroughly second-rate franchise ... with movies like \"Sea of Monsters\", it can probably continue in acceptable mediocrity for years to come\".\n\n\"Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters\" grossed an $68,559,554 in North America and $133,688,197 internationally for a worldwide total of $202,247,751.\n\nThe film grossed $5.4 million on its opening day, taking the number No. 2 spot at the domestic box office. During its extended five-day opening weekend the film debuted at the No. 4 spot and grossed $23,258,113.\n\n\"My Songs Know What You Did in the Dark (Light Em Up)\" by Fall Out Boy and \"Cameo Lover\" by Kimbra were featured in the movie but are unavailable on the soundtrack.\n\nThe film was released on 3D Blu-ray, Blu-ray, and DVD on December 17, 2013. The film was additionally released for Digital HD download on December 3.\n\nOn March 25, 2014, Lerman said that a sequel to \"Sea of Monsters\" would not be made. However, six days later the report stated \"Logan Lerman has said \"Percy Jackson 3\" could still go ahead\" and that the previous report \"was taken out of context\". At the 2015 Santa Barbara International Film Festival, Lerman said that while he finds the \"Percy Jackson\" films fun to make, he has not heard anything about the production of a third film and expressed concern that he and his co-stars were growing too old for their parts.\n\nIn December 2017, The Walt Disney Company agreed to a 52.4-billion-dollar deal to acquire 21st Century Fox, including the film rights for Percy Jackson.\n\n"}
{"id": "22938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22938", "title": "Performing arts", "text": "Performing arts\n\nPerforming arts are a form of art in which artists use their voices, bodies or inanimate objects to convey artistic expression. It is different from visual arts, which is when artists use paint, canvas or various materials to create physical or static art objects. Performing arts include a range of disciplines which are performed in front of a live audience.\n\nTheatre, music, dance and object manipulation, and other kinds of performances are present in all human cultures. The history of music and dance date to pre-historic times whereas circus skills date to at least Ancient Egypt. Many performing arts are performed professionally. Performance can be in purpose built buildings, such as theatres and opera houses, on open air stages at festivals, on stages in tents such as circuses and on the street.\n\nLive performances before an audience are a form of entertainment. The development of audio and video recording has allowed for private consumption of the performing arts.\n\nThe performing arts often aim to express one's emotions and feelings.\n\nArtists who participate in performing arts in front of an audience are called performers. Examples of these include actors, comedians, dancers, magicians, circus artists, musicians, and singers. Performing arts are also supported by workers in related fields, such as songwriting, choreography and stagecraft.\n\nA performer who excels in acting, singing, and dancing is commonly referred to as a triple threat. Well-known examples of historical triple threat artists include Gene Kelly, Fred Astaire, and Judy Garland.\n\nPerformers often adapt their appearance, such as with costumes and stage makeup, stage lighting, and sound.\n\nPerforming arts may include dance, music, opera, theatre and musical theatre, magic, illusion, mime, spoken word, puppetry, circus arts, performance art.\n\nThere is also a specialized form of fine art, in which the artists \"perform\" their work live to an audience. This is called performance art. Most performance art also involves some form of plastic art, perhaps in the creation of props. Dance was often referred to as a \"plastic art\" during the Modern dance era.\n\nTheatre is the branch of performing arts; concerned with acting out stories in front of an audience, using a combination of speech, gesture, music, dance, sound and spectacle. Any one or more of these elements is performing arts. In addition to the standard narrative dialogue style of plays. Theatre takes such forms as plays, musicals, opera, ballet, illusion, mime, classical Indian dance, kabuki, mummers' plays, improvisational theatre, stand-up comedy, pantomime, and non-conventional or contemporary forms like postmodern theatre, postdramatic theatre, or performance art.\n\nIn the context of performing arts, dance generally refers to human movement, typically rhythmic and to music, used as a form of audience entertainment in a performance setting. Definitions of what constitutes dance are dependent on social, cultural, aesthetic artistic and moral constraints and range from functional movement (such as folk dance) to codified, virtuoso techniques such as ballet.\n\nThere is one another modern form of dance that emerged in 19th- 20th century with the name of Free-Dance style. This form of dance was structured to create a harmonious personality which included features such as physical and spiritual freedom. Isadora Duncan was the first female dancer who argued about “woman of future” and developed novel vector of choreography using Nietzsche’s idea of “supreme mind in free mind”.\n\nDance is a powerful impulse, but the art of dance is that impulse channeled by skillful performers into something that becomes intensely expressive and that may delight spectators who feel no wish to dance themselves. These two concepts of the art of dance—dance as a powerful impulse and dance as a skillfully choreographed art practiced largely by a professional few—are the two most important connecting ideas running through any consideration of the subject. In dance, the connection between the two concepts is stronger than in some other arts, and neither can exist without the other.\n\nChoreography is the art of making dances, and the person who practices this art is called a choreographer.\n\nMusic is an art form which combines pitch, rhythm, and dynamic in order to create sound. It can be performed using a variety of instruments and styles and is divided into genres such as folk, jazz, hip hop, pop, and rock, etc. As an art form, music can occur in live or recorded formats, and can be planned or improvised.\n\nStarting in the 6th century BC, the Classical period of performing art began in Greece, ushered in by the tragic poets such as Sophocles. These poets wrote plays which, in some cases, incorporated dance (see Euripides). The Hellenistic period began the widespread use of comedy.\n\nHowever, by the 6th century AD, Western performing arts had been largely ended, as the Dark Ages began. Between the 9th century and 14th century, performing art in the West was limited to religious historical enactments and morality plays, organized by the Church in celebration of holy days and other important events.\n\nIn the 15th century performing arts, along with the arts in general, saw a revival as the Renaissance began in Italy and spread throughout Europe plays, some of which incorporated dance, which were performed and Domenico da Piacenza credited with the first use of the term \"ballo\" (in \"De Arte Saltandi et Choreas Ducendi\") instead of \"danza\" (dance) for his \"baletti\" or \"balli\". The term eventually became \"Ballet\". The first Ballet \"per se\" is thought to be Balthasar de Beaujoyeulx's Ballet Comique de la Reine (1581).\nBy the mid-16th century Commedia Dell'arte became popular in Europe, introducing the use of improvisation. This period also introduced the Elizabethan masque, featuring music, dance and elaborate costumes as well as professional theatrical companies in England. William Shakespeare's plays in the late 16th century developed from this new class of professional performance.\n\nIn 1597, the first opera, Dafne was performed and throughout the 17th century, opera would rapidly become the entertainment of choice for the aristocracy in most of Europe, and eventually for large numbers of people living in cities and towns throughout Europe.\n\nThe introduction of the proscenium arch in Italy during the 17th century established the traditional theatre form that persists to this day. Meanwhile, in England, the Puritans forbade acting, bringing a halt to performing arts that lasted until 1660. After that, women began to appear in both French and English plays. The French introduced a formal dance instruction in the late 17th century.\n\nIt is also during this time that the first plays were performed in the American Colonies.\n\nDuring the 18th century, the introduction of the popular opera buffa brought opera to the masses as an accessible form of performance. Mozart's \"The Marriage of Figaro\" and \"Don Giovanni\" are landmarks of the late 18th century opera.\n\nAt the turn of the 19th century, Beethoven and the Romantic movement ushered in a new era that led first to the spectacles of grand opera and then to the musical dramas of Giuseppe Verdi and the Gesamtkunstwerk (total work of art) of the operas of Richard Wagner leading directly to the music of the 20th century.\n\nThe 19th century was a period of growth for the performing arts for all social classes, technical advances such as the introduction of gaslight to theatres, burlesque, minstrel dancing, and variety theatre. In ballet, women make great progress in the previously male-dominated art.\nModern dance began in the late 19th century and early 20th century in response to the restrictions of traditional ballet.\n\nKonstantin Stanislavski's \"System\" revolutionized acting in the early 20th century, and continues to have a major influence on actors of stage and screen to the current day. Both impressionism and modern realism were introduced to the stage during this period.\n\nThe arrival of Sergei Diaghilev's Ballets Russes (1909–1929) revolutionized ballet and the performing arts generally throughout the Western world, most importantly through Diaghilev's emphasis on collaboration, which brought choreographers, dancers, set designers/artists, composers and musicians together to revitalize and revolutionize ballet. It is extremely complex.\n\nWith the invention of the motion picture in the late 19th century by Thomas Edison and the growth of the motion picture industry in Hollywood in the early 20th century, film became a dominant performance medium throughout the 20th and 21st centuries.\n\nRhythm and blues, a cultural phenomenon of black America, became to prominence in the early 20th century; influencing a range of later popular music styles internationally.\n\nIn the 1930s Jean Rosenthal introduced what would become modern stage lighting, changing the nature of the stage as the Broadway musical became a phenomenon in the United States.\n\nPost-World War II performing arts were highlighted by the resurgence of both ballet and opera in the Western world.\nPostmodernism in performing arts dominated the 1960s to large extent.\n\nThe earliest recorded theatrical event dates back to 2000 BC with the passion plays of Ancient Egypt. This story of the god Osiris was performed annually at festivals throughout the civilization, marking the known beginning of a long relationship between theatre and religion.\n\nThe most popular forms of theater in the medieval Islamic world were puppet theatre (which included hand puppets, shadow plays and marionette productions) and live passion plays known as \"ta'ziya\", where actors re-enact episodes from Muslim history. In particular, Shia Islamic plays revolved around the \"shaheed\" (martyrdom) of Ali's sons Hasan ibn Ali and Husayn ibn Ali. Live secular plays were known as \"akhraja\", recorded in medieval \"adab\" literature, though they were less common than puppetry and \"ta'ziya\" theater.\n\nIn Iran there are other forms of theatrical events such as \"Naghali\" (story telling), \"ٰRu-Howzi\", \"Siah-Bazi\", \"Parde-Khani, \"\"Mareke giri\".\n\nFolk theatre and dramatics can be traced to the religious ritualism of the Vedic peoples in the 2nd millennium BC. This folk theatre of the misty past was mixed with dance, food, ritualism, plus a depiction of events from daily life. The last element made it the origin of the classical theatre of later times. Many historians, notably D. D. Kosambi, Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya, Adya Rangacharaya, etc. have referred to the prevalence of ritualism amongst Indo-Aryan tribes in which some members of the tribe acted as if they were wild animals and some others were the hunters. Those who acted as mammals like goats, buffaloes, reindeer, monkeys, etc. were chased by those playing the role of hunters.\n\nBharata Muni (fl. 5th–2nd century BC) was an ancient Indian writer best known for writing the \"Natya Shastra of Bharata\", a theoretical treatise on Indian performing arts, including theatre, dance, acting, and music, which has been compared to Aristotle's \"Poetics\". Bharata is often known as the father of Indian theatrical arts. His \"Natya Shastra\" seems to be the first attempt to develop the technique or rather art, of drama in a systematic manner. The Natya Shastra tells us not only what is to be portrayed in a drama, but how the portrayal is to be done. Drama, as Bharata Muni says, is the imitation of men and their doings (\"loka-vritti\"). As men and their doings have to be respected on the stage, so drama in Sanskrit is also known by the term \"roopaka\", which means portrayal.\n\nThe \"Ramayana\" and \"Mahabharata\" can be considered the first recognized plays that originated in India. These epics provided the inspiration to the earliest Indian dramatists and they do it even today. Indian dramatists such as Bhāsa in the 2nd century BC wrote plays that were heavily inspired by the \"Ramayana\" and \"Mahabharata\".\n\nKālidāsa in the 1st century BC, is arguably considered to be ancient India's greatest dramatist. Three famous romantic plays written by Kālidāsa are the \"Mālavikāgnimitram\" (\"Mālavikā and Agnimitra\"), \"Vikramōrvaśīyam\" (\"Pertaining to Vikrama and Urvashi\"), and \"Abhijñānaśākuntala\" (\"The Recognition of Shakuntala\"). The last was inspired by a story in the \"Mahabharata\" and is the most famous. It was the first to be translated into English and German. In comparison to Bhāsa, who drew heavily from the epics, Kālidāsa can be considered an original playwright.\n\nThe next great Indian dramatist was Bhavabhuti (c. 7th century). He is said to have written the following three plays: \"Malati-Madhava\", \"Mahaviracharita\" and \"Uttar Ramacharita\". Among these three, the last two cover between them, the entire epic of \"Ramayana\". The powerful Indian emperor Harsha (606–648) is credited with having written three plays: the comedy \"Ratnavali\", \"Priyadarsika\", and the Buddhist drama \"Nagananda\". Many other dramatists followed during the Middle Ages.\n\nThere were many performing art forms in the southern part of India, Kerala is such a state with different such art forms like Koodiyattam, Nangyarkoothu, Kathakali, Chakyar koothu, Thirayattam and there were many prominent artists like Painkulam Raman Chakyar and others.\n\nThere are references to theatrical entertainments in China as early as 1500 BC during the Shang Dynasty; they often involved music, clowning and acrobatic displays.\n\nThe Tang dynasty is sometimes known as \"The Age of 1000 Entertainments\". During this era, Emperor Xuanzong formed an acting school known as the Children of the Pear Garden to produce a form of drama that was primarily musical.\n\nDuring the Han Dynasty, shadow puppetry first emerged as a recognized form of theatre in China. There were two distinct forms of shadow puppetry, Cantonese southern and Pekingese northern. The two styles were differentiated by the method of making the puppets and the positioning of the rods on the puppets, as opposed to the type of play performed by the puppets. Both styles generally performed plays depicting great adventure and fantasy, rarely was this very stylized form of theatre used for political propaganda. Cantonese shadow puppets were the larger of the two. They were built using thick leather that created more substantial shadows. Symbolic color was also very prevalent; a black face represented honesty, a red one bravery. The rods used to control Cantonese puppets were attached perpendicular to the puppets' heads. Thus, they were not seen by the audience when the shadow was created. Pekingese puppets were more delicate and smaller. They were created out of thin, translucent leather usually taken from the belly of a donkey. They were painted with vibrant paints, thus they cast a very colorful shadow. The thin rods that controlled their movements were attached to a leather collar at the neck of the puppet. The rods ran parallel to the bodies of the puppet then turned at a ninety degree angle to connect to the neck. While these rods were visible when the shadow was cast, they laid outside the shadow of the puppet; thus they did not interfere with the appearance of the figure. The rods attached at the necks to facilitate the use of multiple heads with one body. When the heads were not being used, they were stored in a muslin book or fabric lined box. The heads were always removed at night. This was in keeping with the old superstition that if left intact, the puppets would come to life at night. Some puppeteers went so far as to store the heads in one book and the bodies in another, to further reduce the possibility of reanimating puppets. Shadow puppetry is said to have reached its highest point of artistic development in the 11th century before becoming a tool of the government.\n\nIn the Song dynasty, there were many popular plays involving acrobatics and music. These developed in the Yuan Dynasty into a more sophisticated form with a four- or five-act structure. Yuan drama spread across China and diversified into numerous regional forms, the best known of which is Beijing Opera, which is still popular today.\n\nIn Thailand, it has been a tradition from the Middle Ages to stage plays based on plots drawn from Indian epics. In particular, the theatrical version of Thailand's national epic \"Ramakien\", a version of the Indian \"Ramayana\", remains popular in Thailand even today.\n\nIn Cambodia, at the ancient capital Angkor Wat, stories from the Indian epics \"Ramayana\" and \"Mahabharata\" have been carved on the walls of temples and palaces. Similar reliefs are found at Borobudur in Indonesia.\n\nDuring the 14th century, there were small companies of actors in Japan who performed short, sometimes vulgar comedies. A director of one of these companies, Kan'ami (1333–1384), had a son, Zeami Motokiyo (1363–1443) who was considered one of the finest child actors in Japan. When Kan'ami's company performed for Ashikaga Yoshimitsu (1358–1408), the Shogun of Japan, he implored Zeami to have a court education for his arts. After Zeami succeeded his father, he continued to perform and adapt his style into what is today Noh. A mixture of pantomime and vocal acrobatics, this style has fascinated the Japanese for hundreds of years.\n\nJapan, after a long period of civil wars and political disarray, was unified and at peace primarily due to shogun Tokugawa Ieyasu (1600–1668). However, alarmed at increasing Christian growth, he cut off contact from Japan to Europe and China and outlawed Christianity. When peace did come, a flourish of cultural influence and growing merchant class demanded its own entertainment. The first form of theatre to flourish was Ningyō jōruri (commonly referred to as Bunraku). The founder of and main contributor to Ningyō jōruri, Chikamatsu Monzaemon (1653–1725), turned his form of theatre into a true art form. Ningyō jōruri is a highly stylized form of theatre using puppets, today about 1/3d the size of a human. The men who control the puppets train their entire lives to become master puppeteers, when they can then operate the puppet's head and right arm and choose to show their faces during the performance. The other puppeteers, controlling the less important limbs of the puppet, cover themselves and their faces in a black suit, to imply their invisibility. The dialogue is handled by a single person, who uses varied tones of voice and speaking manners to simulate different characters. Chikamatsu wrote thousands of plays during his lifetime, most of which are still used today.\n\nKabuki began shortly after Bunraku, legend has it by an actress named Okuni, who lived around the end of the 16th century. Most of Kabuki's material came from Nõ and Bunraku, and its erratic dance-type movements are also an effect of Bunraku. However, Kabuki is less formal and more distant than Nõ, yet very popular among the Japanese public. Actors are trained in many varied things including dancing, singing, pantomime, and even acrobatics. Kabuki was first performed by young girls, then by young boys, and by the end of the 16th century, Kabuki companies consisted of all men. The men who portrayed women on stage were specifically trained to elicit the essence of a woman in their subtle movements and gestures.\n\nDuring different types of performances, the heart rate varies significantly. For example, studies have been done that show that heart rate varies throughout the different stages of a speech, which include leading up to a speaking role (the highest heart rate occurs during this stage), during the speaking role, and after the speaking role. Similar changes in heart rate also occur during acting, relating to stress. The high heart rates can be attributed to the stress caused by anticipation. During a performance with an audience, the actor experiences high levels of stress throughout the performance, as it pushes the actors mentally. However, this stress helps the actor have a stronger performance. Similar changes in heart rate occur for musicians during their performance. Though their heart rate is highest while they are musically performing, their heart rate is higher during the pre-performance phase, than during the post-performance phase, which is attributed to the stress caused by anticipation. The anticipation leading up to a performance, causes heart rate to increase, while the relief after a performance, causes the heart rate to decrease.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942806", "title": "Plot point", "text": "Plot point\n\n\"For the role-playing games concept see Plot point (role-playing games)\"\n\nIn television and film, a plot point is a significant event within a plot that spins the action around in another direction. \n\nNoted screenwriting teacher Syd Field discusses plot points in his paradigm, popularized in his book \"Screenplay: The Foundations of Screenwriting.\" There he proposes that a well-structured movie has two plot points within a three-act structure. The first plot point occurs 20 to 30 minutes into the film (assuming a standard 120-minute running time), and the second one occurs 80 to 90 minutes into the film. The first plot point ends Act I and propels the story into Act II; likewise, the second plot point ends Act II and propels the story into Act III.\n\n"}
{"id": "140614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140614", "title": "Postman Pat", "text": "Postman Pat\n\nPostman Pat is a British stop-motion animated children's television series first produced by Woodland Animations.\n\nIt is aimed at pre-school children, and concerns the adventures of Pat Clifton, a postman in the fictional village of Greendale (inspired by the real valley of Longsleddale near Kendal).\n\n\"Postman Pat\"′s first 13-episode series was screened on BBC1 in 1981. John Cunliffe wrote the original treatment and scripts, and it was directed by animator Ivor Wood, who also worked on \"The Magic Roundabout\", \"The Wombles\", \"Paddington Bear\", and \"The Herbs\". Following the success of the first series, four TV specials and a second series of 13 episodes were produced during the 1990s. Here, Pat had a family for the first time. A new version of the series was produced by Cosgrove Hall Films from 2003, which expanded on many aspects of the original series. In 2000, Royal Mail stopped using Postman Pat for their promotional and charity work. The television programme continued to use the Royal Mail logo on his postal van PAT 1 for several years after.\n\nThe original voice of Postman Pat, Ken Barrie, died on 29 July 2016 followed by creator John Cunliffe who died on September 20 2018. \n\nEach episode follows the adventures of Pat Clifton, a friendly country postman, and his \"black and white cat\" Jess, as he delivers the post through the valley of Greendale. Although he initially concentrates on delivering his letters, he nearly always becomes distracted by a concern of one of the villagers, and is usually relied upon to resolve their problems. Notable villagers include the postmistress, Mrs. Goggins; Alf Thompson, the farmer; and the local handyman and inventor, Ted Glen.\n\n\"Postman Pat\" is set in the fictional village of Greendale and the nearby town of Pencaster, on the border between Cumbria and North Yorkshire.\n\nGreendale is a large, busy village situated in the heart of the Cumbrian countryside. Running through the centre of the village is the High Street, home to Mrs Goggins' Post Office and shop, an unofficial meeting house for the residents. Located on the edge of the village is the railway station, home to the Greendale Rocket. Nisha Bains runs a popular café there with Sara while her husband Ajay runs a regular schedule on the Greendale Rocket to the nearby town of Pencaster. In the original series (1 and 2), Greendale consisted of windy and narrow country roads in the valley which usually had some involvement as to why Pat had problems with his rounds, as the lanes would be blocked or full of snow drifts that were not passable.\n\nPencaster is a large, bustling, modern town located within easy commuting distance for the villagers of Greendale. Situated on the waterfront, Pencaster is a hive of activity, boasting a market square in the centre surrounded by shops, houses, a large railway station, state-of-the-art buildings, and a boat jetty. It bears some resemblance to Lancaster, the county town of Lancashire, which likewise is a short commute from Longsleddale, the area used as the inspiration for Greendale.\n\nIn the second series of the show from the mid-90s, the area is referred to as Garner Bridge, and is located in Greendale. For example, in the episode \"Postman Pat and the Suit of Armour\", Greendale Post Office is referred to as \"Garner Bridge Post Office\".\n\nIngledale is another large, busy village town situated in the heart of the North Yorkshire countryside, only seen once in a special in 1991, set to make a second appearance in the revival.\n\nCunliffe, interviewed about the series, has said that he chose the character of a postman since he needed a character who could visit the countryside and interact with many different people.\n\nThe inspiration for the post office itself comes from that located on the Kendal street where Cunliffe lived when he was writing the original treatment. The post office, at 10 Greenside, closed in 2003.\n\nCunliffe did not retain rights to the character, and was disappointed by some of the tie-in media later released. He wrote the stories to the series \"Rosie and Jim\", which he also presented, as a show which he could have tighter control of.\n\nWhile Cunliffe visited post offices for inspiration, he has said that the character and village was not based on any one place or person. He commented in 2015 that \"I got maybe half a dozen people last year saying they were the inspiration.\"\n\n\n(Originally Postman Pat: SDS) In the new spin-off series, \"Postman Pat Special Delivery Service\" (SDS), Postman Pat has been promoted to Head of the SDS and is now called upon to deliver anything. Each episode follows Postman Pat on a Special Delivery mission, from rescuing a runaway cow to delivering a giant ice cube. In his new role, Postman Pat commutes to the nearby town of Pencaster where he collects his special deliveries from the Pencaster Mail Centre. Postman Pat now has a new fleet of vehicles including a helicopter, 4x4 Jeep and motorbike, complete with side-car for Jess. He has a new boss, Ben, who tends to give him instructions (whereas he was his own master before the \"promotion\"). Pat also seems to make more mistakes in his work since moving to SDS, largely because the new format is always based on one delivery, which has to go wrong somehow (thus often because of Pat's errors).\n\nPostman Pat SDS features an expanded and diverse cast, a fleet of new vehicles, a world full of gadgets and the new town of Pencaster. \"Postman Pat Special Delivery Service\" first screened on BBC2 on 29 September 2008. The new series was commissioned by the BBC and produced by Entertainment Rights and Cosgrove Hall Films.\n\nBoth seasons of Postman Pat SDS are available digitally on iTunes.\n\nA new series aired in 2016.\n\n\"\", a British-American 3D computer-animated comedy children's feature film version of the British stop-motion animated children's television show, was theatrically released on 23 May 2014 in the United Kingdom. The film was distributed and produced by Lionsgate and Icon Productions and animated by Rubicon Group Holding. The story revolves around Pat entering a talent show audition which leads to robots taking over his postal service whilst he is away. The film stars Stephen Mangan as the voice of Pat and also features Jim Broadbent, Rupert Grint, David Tennant, Ronan Keating, Susan Duerden, Sandra Teles, TJ Ramini and Peter Woodward.\n\nA CGI spin-off to the series was made called \"Guess with Jess\" which follows Pat's cat Jess now with the ability to talk and his adventures with the farm animals. The series debuted on 9 November 2009.\n\nMusic for the original 1981 series was by Bryan Daly (died January 2012), who wrote a number of songs including the well-known theme tune. For the 2003 series, pop writer Simon Woodgate scored the show and wrote new songs, including a new closing theme \"What's in His Bag?\". The theme tune \"Postman Pat & His Black and White Cat\" was sung by Ken Barrie for the original series in the 1980s and '90s. An extended version of the tune was released as a single in the UK where it reached number 44 in the charts in July 1982.\n\nThe theme tune and songs for the new series and sequel, Postman Pat Special Delivery Service (including \"Special Delivery Service, What's It Going to Be Today?), was recorded by Simon Woodgate at Echobass Studios.\n\nIn 2013 Classic Media released Postman Pat SDS Series 2. The new 26 episode series retained Bryan Daly's original theme tune and Simon Woodgate's closing song, however new character themes and incidental music was composed by Sandy Nuttgens.\n\nThere is also an album called Postman Pat: Songs And Music From The Television on Post Music released in 1982.\n\nThe ever-popular theme song underwent several adaptations; from 1994 to 1996, the theme tune had additional instruments such as synthesised strings and a tambourine. The same was done to the 1995 album version which was an edit of the original 1982 album version.\nAs of 2009, over 12 million books, including storybooks, integrated learning books, colouring books, and multi-character magazines, have been sold worldwide.\n\nThe \"Postman Pat\" characters and setting have also been used in the UK and Australia in television advertisements for the company Specsavers.\n\nTitles include:\nTitles Include:\n\nFisher Price Home Video also made a VHS with 3 episodes on it: Postman Pat's Finding Day, Postman Pat's Tractor Express and Postman Pat's Rainy Day\n\nAs \"Postman Pat\" wasn't as popular in the United States, only one DVD title, \"Postman Pat: The Movie\", was released by Paramount Pictures in 2015.\n\nWith over four million DVDs and videos sold globally, there is a growing collection of titles available for Home Entertainment release, including feature-length specials and interactive games.\nTitles include:\n\nDVD releases of classic Postman Pat were limited in availability in various regions. In the UK, only one volume with three episodes from Series 2 was released by Right Entertainment in 2004 under the title \"Postman Pat in a Muddle\". The same year saw the entire original series released on DVD in Spain, featuring both English and Spanish audio options. No further releases were seen in the UK until 2011 when Classic Media issued all four specials from 1991–1994 on the DVD \"Happy Birthday Postman Pat\". On 3 February 2014, the first and second series were made available in their entirety for the first time in the UK, However the titles are both season 2 with the season 3 theme which received bad reviews from classic fans.\n\n\nBetween April 1983 and May 1984 three Postman Pat pre-certed titles (before the Uc rating by the BBFC got established in 1985) with twelve episode of the entire first series all except for \"Letters On Ice\" [episode 11] were released by Longman Video in its \"children's treasury\" range. Also, one 30-minute title by Longman Video called \"My Own Postman Pat\" (Cat. No. LGVH 2001) was released featuring two episodes – \"Pat's Rainy Day\" [episode 3] and \"The Sheep in the Clover Field\" [episode 9]. On the back covers The Woodland Animations detail was copyrighted in 1982.\n\n\n\nLongleat Safari Park had an outdoor reproduction of Greendale village, including the Post Office, the Clifton's house and the Greendale station. It also had a miniature model of Greendale. It was installed during the 1990s, was relocated during 2008 in preparation for a new animal area and was revamped a third time for 2013. The attraction was closed at the end of 2015 and was permanently removed in 2016.\n\nIn 2006, Postman Pat was nominated for \"Best Pre-school Animation Series\" at the BAFTA Children's Awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14460941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14460941", "title": "Prostitution in Bolivia", "text": "Prostitution in Bolivia\n\nIn Bolivia, prostitution is legal and regulated. It is only permitted by registered prostitutes in licensed brothels. Prostitutes must register and must undergo regular health checks for sexually transmitted diseases (every 20 days). The police are allowed to check whether the prostitutes are registered or not, and have attended a clinic during the previous 20 days. \n\nIn 2016 UNAIDS estimated there were 30,523 prostitutes in the country.\n\nAlthough prostitution is widespread in Bolivia, the prostitutes are severely stigmatized by society, they are blamed for everything from broken homes to the rising HIV-infection rate. In 2007, in El Alto, hundreds of prostitutes were attacked, forced to strip and beaten by angry locals; several brothels were burnt. Citizens demanded that brothels and bars be located at least 3,200 feet away from schools. The municipal government responded by closing all brothels within 1,600 feet of schools, but took no action against those who had attacked the prostitutes. \"We are Bolivia's unloved,\" said Yuly Perez, vice-president of , the Bolivian sex workers' union, \"If we don't work, who's going to feed our kids?\" Another representative from the sex worker organization said that: \"People think the point of our organization is to expand prostitution in Bolivia. In fact, we want the opposite. Our ideal world is one free of the economic desperation that forces women into this business.\"\n\nIn Bolivia, the average age of entry into prostitution is 16. Child prostitution is a serious problem, particularly in urban areas and in the Chapare region. \nMost children forced into prostitution come from the lower social classes and from broken families. Only 12.6% of these children have any education, leaving them with few opportunities. As a result, many remain in the sex trade throughout adulthood, despite wanting to exit. Approximately one third of girls and adolescents in prostitution have between one and five children, mostly under the age of 5.\nMost child prostitutes work on the streets, inside brothels or inside bars and clubs. \n\nThere are different types of child prostitution, varying with the economic power of the client and the age of the child. Upper-class clients tend to seek older adolescents aged 16–17 (and young adult prostitutes aged 18–20). Many of these youth come from Eastern Bolivia and from outside of the country. This type of prostitution is organised by closed networks, and is subject to very few controls. In some cases, the sexual contact between these adolescents and their clients takes place at the client’s house. Adolescents from all parts of the country prostitute themselves in local bars or pubs, mainly for middle-class clients. Street prostitution involves women and girls of all ages who typically enter the trade when they are between the ages of 12 and 15 years. Finally, there is a form of “hidden” prostitution, which can involve children as young as 8 years, often in exchange for drugs or some kind of treat or toy. During the day, these children stay in the street often working as street vendors, domestic servants or waitresses. At night they go to dance clubs or sell alcohol in the street. Clients of this type of prostitution are generally adults or adolescents with little money. \n\nThe problem of child prostitution is exacerbated by poorly enforced laws and by rare and ineffective police raids. However, recently, more efforts have been done to address this problem; in 2008, the police raided several brothels and rescued 215 children who were working there. \nThe International Organization for Migration (IOM) and the NGOs Save the Children and Pro-Adolescente conducted public awareness campaigns on the trafficking of children. La Paz Department and the La Paz city government each operate a shelter for abused and exploited children.\n\nEconomic and social problems create a climate which is favorable to human trafficking. Young Bolivian women and girls are trafficked from rural to urban areas for commercial sexual exploitation; women and children from the indigenous ethnic groups in the Altiplano region are at greater risk of being trafficked into prostitution.\nFaced with extreme poverty, many citizens become economic migrants, and some are victimized by traffickers and forced into prostitution, both inside and outside Bolivia. \nThe country is also a source for victims trafficked for sexual exploitation to Argentina, Chile, Brazil, Spain, and the United States. Weak controls along the borders exacerbate this problem.\n\nIn 2018 the United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons downgraded Bolivia's rank from 'Tier 2 Watch List' to a 'Tier 3' country.\n\n"}
{"id": "15723845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15723845", "title": "Prostitution in Luxembourg", "text": "Prostitution in Luxembourg\n\nProstitution in Luxembourg is in itself legal, and is common, but activities associated with organised prostitution, such as profiting from (operating brothels and prostitution rings) or aiding prostitution, are illegal. Human trafficking incurs severe penalties.\n\nIn February 2018, the Chamber of Deputies approved a bill to criminalise the clients of prostitutes who were trafficked, exploited, a \"vulnerable person\" or a minor.\n\nStreet prostitution is only permitted in two streets near Luxembourg City's railway station, and only between 20:00 and 03:00. The area is regulated by the city authorities, and patrolled regularly by the police. Prostitutes working outside these streets or outside the permitted times may be arrested and fined up to €2,500. Because of the number of prostitutes and limited area to work in, some work from other streets near the legalised area and risk being arrested. The number of prostitutes has increased due, at least in part, to demand from French men following the changes in France's prostitution laws. The spread of prostitutes into adjoining streets coupled with drug activity and gang violence has resulted in police closing some streets in the area to traffic at night and having high profile foot patrols.\n\nThe authorities have been working towards a national prostitution strategy for a number of years. A survey of public opinion was carried out online between 2007 and 2012. Some supported following the 'Nordic Model' (where the client is criminalised), others supported a regulated system such as in the Netherlands and Germany. The National Council of Women of Luxembourg wanted the outright abolition of prostitution. Ministers visited the Netherlands and Sweden and there was a parliamentary debate on prostitution in April 2015.\n\nThe first measure to come out of the discussions was the 'EXIT strategy' in 2014. A government funded scheme, run by the Luxembourg Red Cross, to provide shelters, support and advice to those women who wanted to exit prostitution. Vocational training would also be provided by ADEM (Employment Development Agency).\n\nThe NAP was announced by Minister of Equal Opportunities, Lydia Mutsch, and Minister of Justice, Félix Braz, in June 2016. The NAP did not criminalise prostitutes or clients, but its goal was to make prostitution safer. A draft law was presented to parliament \"strengthening the fight against the exploitation of prostitution, pimping and human trafficking for sexual purposes\".\n\nLuxembourg is a destination country for women and children subjected to sex trafficking. Victims of sex trafficking from Europe, Africa, Asia, and South America are exploited in prostitution in cabarets, private apartments, and on the street. Groups vulnerable to trafficking include unaccompanied foreign children and people in Luxembourg’s legal and illegal commercial sex industry.\n\nLuxembourg prohibits all forms of sex and labor trafficking through articles 382-1 and 382-2 of the criminal code. The prescribed penalties range from three to 10 years imprisonment for adult trafficking and 10 to 20 years imprisonment for child trafficking. In 2016, the government reported initiating eight investigations for sex trafficking , the same number as the previous year. The government convicted 11 traffickers for sex trafficking in 2016, an increase compared with five in 2015.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Luxembourg as a 'Tier 1' country.\n"}
{"id": "1041934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1041934", "title": "Publicist", "text": "Publicist\n\nA publicist is a person whose job is to generate and manage publicity for a company, a brand, or public figure- especially a celebrity- or for a work such as a book, film or album. Publicists are public relations specialists who have the role to maintain and represent the images of individuals, rather than representing an entire corporation or business.\n\nPublicists are also hired by public figures who want to maintain or protect their image. Publicists brand their clients by getting magazine, TV, newspaper, and website coverage. Most top-level publicists work in private practice, handling multiple clients.\n\nThe term \"publicist\" was coined by Columbia law professor Francis Lieber (1800–1872) to describe the public-like role of internationalists during the late nineteenth century. Publicists are sometimes called \"flacks\" which traces back to Gene Flack, who was a well-known movie publicist in the 1930s.\n\nIn the world of celebrities, unlike agents or managers, publicists typically take a monthly fee for serving a client (whereas agents and managers tend to take a percentage of their client's gross income. Publicists can be on a local, regional or national level. For example, a small restaurant seeking only local publicity would want a local publicist - whereas an author seeking nationwide visibility would want to search for a national publicist.\n\nOne of the publicist's main functions is to generate press coverage on behalf of their clients and serve as the bridge between clients, their public and media outlets. A publicist manages campaigns and performs other public relations functions. It usually takes many years to develop the media contacts, experience and relationships necessary to be an effective publicist.\n\nSome publicists specialize in representing ordinary members of the public to procure the maximum possible fee for stories they wish to sell to newspapers, television stations and magazines. A number have now sprung up on the internet and work as media agents gaining members of the public multiple deals with publications.\n\nAn older meaning of the term is closer to pamphleteer: someone who circulates ideas by publishing them, perhaps in ephemeral forms. This term is still in use in some countries, such as Israel.\n\n\nThe main role of publicists is to get good press coverage for their clients. One way that publicists can do this is by sending press releases to journalists. A press release is written like a news story; including a headline, and attention grabbing quotes. However, because of the high traffic of e-mails, today, many press releases sent by publicists are lost within the other e-mails that journalists receive.\n\nPublicists tend to have good working relationships with journalists, TV news producers, and producers. In order to have these relationships, publicists usually network with these media professionals. To protect a client's image, publicists will often ask journalists what questions will be asked during interviews to prevent any surprises and discussion of any unwanted topics.\n\nPublicists determine how to manage a person's or brand's image by what is being said about them in the media. This pertains to websites and social media. More recently, publicists have the need to network with bloggers and scope out their websites to make sure the content on their client is appropriate. Celebrity publicists usually schedule their client's press tours, which includes everything from making the travel arrangements and locations.\n\nA typical day for a publicist consists of being on the phone, networking through e-mails, and can make themselves available at all times of the day for when conflict arises. Out of the office, publicists go to gatherings to network with media professionals.\n\nPublicists are usually skilled writers, as well as motivated to promote individuals. Furthermore, publicists need to be able to handle the stress associated with crisis. For example, if a client is arrested for a DUI, they need to release press coverage with details explaining how the client will resolve the situation. In terms of education, publicists will often major in communications, journalism, or public relations in college. When starting out as a publicist, one will have to work their way up in regards to position. Usually, it is helpful that aspiring publicists intern at a public relations firm while at college to gain experience. Schools that offer communication and public relations degrees consist of Ashford University; Colorado Technical University; Seton Hall University; American University; and the University of Florida.\n\nHollywood publicists create and manage relationships between film stars and the array of other media channels through which the identities of stars are circulated. Stars have a dual relationship with publicity, for they publicize films but also, and importantly in the freelance market, have an interest in self publicity. It is for the latter reason that while many stars continue to regard managers as an optional luxury, today the majority of stars in Hollywood hire publicists to manage their media visibility. In other words, celebrities hire publicists who will be able to get their name out to the public preferably in a positive light.\n\nCompared to channels of paid advertising, publicity generates exposure which is relatively \"free.\" Publicity is at work whenever stars make personal appearances at press conferences or film premieres, give television interviews, are displayed on magazine covers, or allow the press to cover a private event. Independent publicists include Hollywood stars and studios as their clients, alongside corporations and individuals from the worlds of entertainment, sports, finance, technology, retailing, and other business sectors.\n\nThe role of a publicist in Hollywood has changed and has become more challenging in recent years. With the enormous increase of entertainment news outlets such as Perez Hilton, TMZ, and Page Six, it has become much more difficult for publicists to control negative stories. Publicists must also work much harder to keep some of their star clients relevant in the media with the entertainment options in Hollywood continuously growing. Even booking a star for an interview or on a television talk show has become a challenging task, because if something goes awry, the publicist and the star could both be highly criticized by the media.\n\nAmong publicists in the Hollywood industry, Michael D. Monroe, the founder of MDM Media, is known for representing celebrities such as Carmit Bachar, Aaron Carter, LaTavia Roberson and Bello Sanchez.\n\nThe average salary for a publicist in the United States is about $45,000 per year. However, celebrity publicists' salaries can vary depending on the clientele they cater to.\n\nEntry Level: 0-5 Years $29,029-$57,737\n\nMid Career: 5-10 Years $35,818-$76,758\n\nExperienced: 10-20 Years $35,372-$96,507\n\nLate-Career: 20 Years+ $34,786-$154,954\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28022437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28022437", "title": "Quizmania", "text": "Quizmania\n\nQuizmania is a British interactive game show. The show was devised by Chuck Thomas, Debbie King, and Simone Thorogood and produced by Fremantle Media for Information TV (between August 2005 and March 2006) and ITV (between December 2005 and January 2007). Similar to other premium-line call-in shows, viewers on the TV version of Quizmania were encouraged to phone a premium-rate number in order to provide an answer to a quiz question.\n\nQuizmania's last ever television broadcast was made on 14 January–15 January 2007, presented by Greg Scott and Debbie King. The show closed with a highlights montage and an emotional farewell sign off from Scott and King.\n\nThe series returned briefly on Thursday 17 July 2008 as an online-only show on Quizmania's official website.\n\nIn 2003, while working for E4 as anchor presenter on the United Kingdom version of the German-produced live phone-in television quiz show \"9Live\" filmed in Munich, presenter Debbie King joined with producers Chuck Thomas and Simone Thorogood to pitch a similar idea to UK production company Nation 217. After commissioning, the show was produced as Bowling For Bucks.\n\nApproached by Fremantle Media, the trio were commissioned to create a similar show called \"Quizmania\". Initially shown in the Autumn of 2004 in a five-hour per night slot on satelitte channel Information TV, after 8 months it was picked up by ITV for their night time slot.\n\nE4 continued with a new production team, which transmitted \"9Live\" from late 2004 in the same timeslot as \"Quizmania\", but stopped in early 2005.\n\nThe original run of \"Quizmania\" was broadcast from 10pm to 1am, weeknights on ITV Play. In order to win money, viewers had to ring in at a cost of 75p from a BT landline (previously 60p). If they were successful they would be placed on hold, then transferred live to the studio if they were selected, where they went on to deliver their answers. Prizes usually ranged from £50 to £25,000. The biggest prize to be won was £28,000 on 22 March 2006. Once £100,000 was available as a prize, but was not won. According to an article in \"The Times\", \"Quizmania\" earned ITV over £1.2million during the first two weeks of transmission on the ITV Network.\n\nThe original TV series ended on 14 January 2007, but was revived some 18 months later with a new mass participation online format. The first online season involved trivia games where players attempted to select correct answers to sets of multiple choice questions in the fastest time. The second online season featured additional games from the first such as wordsearches, anagram solving and maths based games. The revival was short-lived.\n\n\"Quizmania\" originally began broadcasting on 12 August 2005 on Sky channels 139 (\"Life Showcase\") and 181 (\"Information TV\") and completed a three-month run on terrestrial channel ITV from 16 December 2005 to 30 March 2006. After its last show on 31 March 2006, the show became solely shown on ITV as it disappeared from the schedules of the two Sky channels. The series began airing overnight on ITV2 from 1 April 2006. On 26 May 2006, \"Quizmania\" returned to ITV, airing on Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights from midnight until around 4am. The programme also appeared on ITV Play and Men & Motors during weekday afternoons from 3pm until 6pm. On 27 August 2006, \"Quizmania\" concluded what was to be its last run on ITV and from the week beginning 4 September 2006, began broadcasting exclusively on ITV Play in the evening between 10pm and 1am. This arrangement continued until the last edition of the original series on 14 January 2007.\n\nIn early 2007, a series of scandals broke out in the UK involving allegations of phone-in segments of television programmes and quiz channels conning viewers. ITV suspended all programmes involving premium rate phone-ins on 5 March 2007, including its quiz channel ITV Play. This was to allow independent auditor Deloitte to conduct a review of programmes carried by ITV including \"Dancing on Ice\", \"The X Factor\" and \"Quizmania\" which all used phone-ins to generate revenue, to ensure they are run fairly. ITV Play was taken off the air during the review, but for a few days it ran a limited after midnight service for only four hours before on 13 March, ITV announced that ITV Play had been permanently closed down.\n\nThe first online series consisted of 26 live shows between 17 July and 4 November 2008. A second, shorter series of occasional shows began on Wednesday 23 September 2009. The programme was available worldwide, although only UK residents were allowed to play for money.\n\n\nChuck Thomas and Stuart Headlam, two of the programme's producers, presented only occasionally. Chuck Thomas's voice could sometimes be heard speaking or giving away clues, when invited by a presenter.\n\nTim Lichfield, Lottie Mayor & Kirsty Duffy returned for the first series of the online revival alongside former CITV continuity presenter Andy Jaye. Greg Scott returned to present a US election special on 4 November 2008.\n\nOne of the show's unluckiest players, \"Tornado Tom\", made it through to the studio on 97 consecutive shows without a single win. He eventually broke his losing streak with a £75 win on 12 December 2006.\n\nOn the other hand, regular player \"Rob from Norwich\" became the show's first big money winner, winning £6,700 on 14 January 2006. Some fifteen months later he went on Sky News to defend quiz TV channels and programmes amid mounting controversy of such output. Stuart King from East Calder was also a big winner in March 2005, winning £8000.\n\nCrazy Nige rang the studio on a regular basis using his catchphrase, \"Loving the style of everything, except Greggles\".\n\nThe \"Quizmania\" studio reflects the show's main colour theme, bright pink with elements of blue.\nIn the main section of the studio is a very large door, that is set in a low-angled pink wall. This door is normally where the presenters enter the show from at the start, and when another presenter arrives to take over.\n\nFrom the viewer's perspective, to the left of the studio is a bar section, with various odds and ends on it. Going further to the right is a large noticeboard-like wall, which has a large gold frame (nicknamed \"Quizframia\") where viewer submitted photographs are pinned up. Also in the left section is a flat screen TV, where the animated Quizmania logo is displayed for most of the show. When special events happen in the show (e.g. Double money, speed round) large text is normally displayed on the screen. The screen is also used to display video clips as part of some games.\n\nTo the right of the main section, is another main bar section with a flat-screen television in the background, which displays the same picture as the other TV. The bar has traditionally had a gumball machine on it, and a large selection of random props and items that viewers have sent in. It also has two picture frames, for the \"King and Queen of Quizmania\". The bar also has some things underneath it that the presenters often get out, but the actual back of the bar has never been seen by viewers. Going further right, there is a 'podium of love' (a nickname started by Debbie) that the presenter will normally 'mount' when a speed rounds happens. The podium has a backdrop of large white bulb lights on a black background, and the lights are often flashing.\n\nOn 31 July 2006, the studio was redesigned into a summer theme. Items like the large door were painted yellow, the left side of the studio was turned into a seaside-like setting, complete with deckchair, bucket and spade, some artificial palm trees, and a barbecue. Meanwhile, the right side has also be changed, with the bar given a different colour, and the frame around the TV painted yellow. The podium/speed round area of the studio has received new blue and red lights and newly painted podium. Additionally, a large jukebox was placed at the back of the main studio area.\n\nIn December 2006, the set was changed again into a snowy, Alpine Lodge theme which was the last theme for \"Quizmania\"'s run on ITV Play.\n\nA smaller version of the original studio was built for the online series with the technical gallery regularly appearing in-vision.\n\nQuizmania was revived as an online-only version. The first publicly released news of plans to revive the series was seen on the \"Quizmania\" website, on 18 December 2007 stating: \"Yakkabakakkas! \"Quizmania\" could be on its way back like you've never seen before!\".\n\nOn 11 January 2008, those who had signed up to the \"Quizmania\" mailing list received an e-mail offering \"a huge fluffy pink thank you to everyone for getting in touch.\" As for the rumours of a return:\n\nWell, it's true we're looking at ways we can bring back the show in a completely different (but hopefully equally wadgetastic) way. Its not 100% certain yet and there are still details we need to scratch our heads over ...\nThe show finally returned online on 17 July 2008. This show was preceded by a pre-launch pilot edition, which was streamed live on 12 July 2008, with 100 winners of an e-mail competition allowed to take part. The show was originally due to stream every Thursday, Friday and Saturday until 9 August 2008 as a test run. On 31 July 2008, it was announced that the programme would continue beyond that period, although the Friday and Saturday shows were axed at the end of the four-week test run. The final weekly edition of the present series was streamed on 16 October 2008 and was followed by two specials on 4 November 2008 to mark the USA presidential election. The second series of the online revival began at 12pm on Wednesday 23 September 2009.\n\nQuizmania launched a beta version Facebook application of the show on 8 February 2012 with straight quiz games and guess what the majority of players would choose games. This was closed when makers Screenpop were merged into ITV interactive at the start of April 2012.\n\nThe TV format of \"Quizmania\" have also been produced and broadcast in various countries.\n"}
{"id": "2203857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2203857", "title": "Rolling globe", "text": "Rolling globe\n\nThe rolling globe is a circus skill in which the performer balances atop a large sphere, sometimes taller than the performer. Various gymnastic or juggling stunts may be performed while the performer moves and controls the position of the ball with the feet and/or hands.\n\n"}
{"id": "11292996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11292996", "title": "Spanner (software)", "text": "Spanner (software)\n\nSpanner is a free program provided by Garmin for PCs running Windows 2000 or XP. It ‘translates’ live positional data from Garmin’s proprietary interface into NMEA 0183. Garmin’s proprietary interface data is only provided via USB whereas NMEA data is provided via serial port. Spanner overcomes this by creating a virtual serial port and thereby allowing a USB based Garmin GPS receiver to ‘speak’ with programs that require NMEA data. For users with Windows 7 and above, GpsGate Client is required. \n\nSpanner is offered as a tool for Garmin’s GPS 18 product, but it works with other Garmin GPS receivers including the GPS 20x, GPSMap 60cx, 76CS, Colorado series (software version 2.51(beta) or later is needed), Oregon series, GPSMap 62/78 series, and Montana Series.\n\n"}
{"id": "1224171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1224171", "title": "The General Died at Dawn", "text": "The General Died at Dawn\n\nThe General Died at Dawn is a 1936 American drama film that tells the story of a mercenary who meets a beautiful girl while trying to keep arms from getting to a vicious warlord in war-torn China. The movie was written by Charles G. Booth and Clifford Odets, and directed by Lewis Milestone.\n\nIt stars Gary Cooper, Madeleine Carroll, Akim Tamiroff, and Dudley Digges. Director Milestone has a cameo role.\n\nThe movie was nominated for Academy Awards for Best Actor in a Supporting Role (Akim Tamiroff), Best Cinematography, and Best Music, Score. There are several scenes in the film that show startling originality at the time. At one point, the camera focuses on a white door knob, and then dissolves to a white billiard ball to connect disparate scenes. In another scene, two characters have a conversation in which they speculate about the fates of other characters in the drama. The answers to their questions appear in screen segments in the corners of the screen, marking an unusual use of split screen to join narrative.\n\nThe main character, O'Hara, is based on the real-life Anglo-Canadian Jewish adventurer Morris Abraham \"Two-Gun\" Cohen. During the early 1930s, Cohen ran guns for various warlords in mainland China.\n\nThis is reported to be the first film to use foam latex prosthetics. Makeup artist Charles Gemora applied sponge rubber eyelids for one of the actors.\n\nJohn Howard Reid called it one of the fifty finest films Hollywood ever made.\n\n\nIn 1938 an animated cartoon, called \"The Major Lied Till Dawn\", was produced by Leon Schlesinger Productions. In it, a major tells tall tales about his hunting adventures to a boy who resembles Freddie Bartholomew. The character of the major may have been influenced by Colonel Heeza Liar.\n\nA third-season episode of the TV show \"M*A*S*H\" was entitled \"The General Flipped at Dawn\" (broadcast September 10, 1974). In the episode Harry Morgan appears as Major General Bartford Hamilton Steele, a batty general who is convinced that the 4077th needs to move closer to the front lines, to be near the action. (Morgan formally joined the cast of \"M*A*S*H\" in Season Four as the much-saner Colonel Sherman T. Potter.)\n\n"}
{"id": "143554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143554", "title": "The Larry Sanders Show", "text": "The Larry Sanders Show\n\nThe Larry Sanders Show is an American television sitcom set in the office and studio of a fictional late-night talk show. The series was created by Garry Shandling and Dennis Klein and aired from August 1992 to May 1998 on the HBO cable television network.\n\nThe series stars Shandling, Jeffrey Tambor, and Rip Torn and features celebrities playing exaggerated, self-parodying versions of themselves. The show has its roots in Shandling's stand-up comedy background, his experience as a guest host on \"The Tonight Show\" and his earlier sitcom \"It's Garry Shandling's Show\". The program has had a marked and long-lasting influence on HBO as well as on television shows in the US and Britain such as \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", \"30 Rock\" and \"The Office\". The supporting cast includes Janeane Garofalo, Wallace Langham, Penny Johnson, Linda Doucett, Scott Thompson and Jeremy Piven.\n\nRegarded as an influential and landmark series, it ranked 38 on TV Guide's 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time, the only HBO comedy to make the list, and was also included in \"Time\" magazine's list of the \"100 Best TV Shows of All Time\".\n\nThe show won 24 major awards, including three Primetime Emmy Awards, five CableACE Awards, four American Comedy Awards, two British Comedy Awards, two Peabody Awards, a BAFTA Award and a Satellite Award. It also received 86 nominations, including 56 Primetime Emmy Awards nominations, five Directors Guild of America nominations, six Writers' Guild of America nominations, six American Comedy Awards nominations, three Golden Globe nominations, three Satellite Awards nominations and a GLAAD Award nomination.\n\nFrom the mid-1980s to the late 1990s, there was a stream of American stand-up comedians finding success in sitcoms on broadcast network television, including Bill Cosby, Roseanne Barr, Richard Lewis, Jerry Seinfeld, Tim Allen, Paul Reiser, Tom Arnold, Brett Butler, Ellen DeGeneres, and Drew Carey. Garry Shandling took a slightly different path with the cable network sitcoms \"The Larry Sanders Show\" and its forerunner \"It's Garry Shandling's Show\".\n\nIn \"It's Garry Shandling's Show\", Shandling makes use of the George Burns technique of directly addressing the audience. He speaks to the studio and home audiences as well as the other actors, often in quick succession. In both shows celebrity guests appear as themselves and Shandling essentially plays himself: a star of a television show and stand-up comedian with a distinctive \"comic persona and rhythm\". Shandling said, in an interview with \"Entertainment Weekly\", \"the idea for doing something about a talk show host actually came out of an \"It’s Garry Shandling's Show\" episode in which I was the guest on an LA morning show ... I thought I could make the talk show look very real so the audience would buy that part and then slowly suck them into the realities of life once Larry goes behind the curtain.\"\n\nIn 1981, Shandling performed a stand-up routine on \"The Tonight Show\" and subsequently became a regular guest, particularly at short notice. He also began appearing as a guest host and, in 1986, replaced Joan Rivers as \"permanent guest host\". He was considered to be a possible, although unlikely, successor to Johnny Carson. After Jay Leno replaced Carson in 1992, Shandling was offered his own late-night (1 a.m.) talk show but preferred instead to create \"a show about a talk-show\", \"The Larry Sanders Show.\" The series has similarities to \"The Player\", \"The King of Comedy\" and classic Hollywood back-stage musicals with their \"let's put on a show\" theme, but the links to \"The Tonight Show\" are so strong it verges on parody. Alex Pareene commented \"Shandling turned down hosting a network late night show to do a brilliant cult hit sitcom about a version of himself who took the deal.\"\n\nThe show follows the production of a fictional late night talk show \"The Larry Sanders Show\". It chronicles the daily life of host Larry (Garry Shandling), producer Arthur \"Artie\" (Rip Torn), sidekick Hank Kingsley (Jeffrey Tambor) and their interaction with celebrity guests, the network and others. Episodes focus on the professional and personal lives of the principal characters, with most focusing on Larry. Ancillary characters are also featured, among them the writers Phil and Jerry, talent bookers Paula and Mary Lou, and the personal assistants Beverly, Darlene and Brian. Larry's wife, ex-wife and girlfriends are frequent sources of conflict, and his home is a secondary location for the show.\n\nA typical early episode opens to the titles with the sound of Hank's audience warm-up routine in the background. This is followed by the talk show's titles and an excerpt from Larry's monologue. Episodes vary after this, sometimes continuing with the studio recording, but often cutting to a back-stage shot or to the production offices.\n\n\"The Larry Sanders Show\" is a satire on show business that mixes fact with fiction. It featured real-life celebrity guests as they performed on the talk show and as they appeared behind the scenes. For example, in the final episode Larry interviews Sean Penn who, once they cut to a commercial break, gossips freely about Shandling's acting, insecurity, and behaviour towards Penn's wife (Robin Wright) on the set of \"Hurlyburly\", in which all three appear. The scripts often shocked by appearing to show the guest's malice, or the difference between their public and private personas.\n\nProfanities are used on the show, although not gratuitously, with the writers taking advantage of the freedom allowed by HBO as a subscription cable service. It paved the way for subsequent HBO shows such as \"Oz\", \"The Sopranos\", and \"Deadwood\". According to Peter Tolan, early episodes were also recorded with language suitable for broadcast syndication until midway through the second season, when the actors resisted shooting the extra takes.\n\nThe show used both videotape and film. The behind the scenes footage was shot on film, often using hand-held cameras, in a documentary style. Four video cameras recorded the show-within-a-show which gives a brighter, less grainy picture and helps distinguish the talk show from the back-stage scenes. The talk show was staged with realistic music, lighting and set design. It was recorded in front of an actual live studio audience during the first season and then occasionally during later episodes.\n\nThe show had a few catchphrases used throughout its entire run. The most common was \"Hey now\", a phrase Hank repeats in the opening credits of the fictional talk show and whenever he greets someone (though it was intellectual property of the network; season 3, episode 1, \"Montana\"). It mirrors the \"Hi-yo\" catchphrase used by Ed McMahon (sidekick on \"The Tonight Show\"), upon whom Hank Kingsley was based. In season 1 episode 8, \"The Party\", Hank says he invented the phrase when he accidentally said it to someone and liked it. In 2007, Nickleodeon's TV Land ranked \"Hey Now\" as the 87th Best Television catchphrase. \"No flipping\" is a phrase Larry uses to go to commercial breaks, encouraging the viewer audience not to change to another channel (which was considered public domain; season 3, episode 1, \"Montana\"). In the series finale, the last thing Larry says on his talk show is, \"You may now flip\" (though he said near the end of episode 18, season 2, \"New York or LA\": \"You may feel free to flip\" while pondering relocating to New York City due to a change in network ownership).\n\nThe first season premiered on August 15, 1992, and ended on November 7, 1992, and was an immediate success. Story arcs include the breakdown of Larry's relationship with his second wife Jeannie (Megan Gallagher) and his abuse of Excedrin tablets.\n\nThe season was nominated for eight Emmy Awards. After changes to the eligibility rules in 1988, \"The Larry Sanders Show\" became the first cable TV series to be nominated for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series, but lost to \"Seinfeld\". Shandling was nominated for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series. Torn and Tambor were nominated for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series. Dana Carvey and Carol Burnett were nominated for Outstanding Guest Actor and Guest Actress in a Comedy Series. Klein and Shandling were nominated for Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series for the pilot, \"The Hey Now Episode\", which was broadcast at the end of the season. Shandling, Paul Simms, Peter Tolan and Rosie Shuster were nominated in the same category for \"The Spider Episode\".\n\nThe second season premiered on June 2, 1993 and ended on September 29, 1993. The story arcs include Larry beginning a new relationship with his ex-wife Francine (Kathryn Harrold) and Hank investing all his money in a street-level revolving restaurant.\n\nJeremy Piven grew tired of playing the character Jerry, head writer of the fictional talk show, because his character was not given much of a background. He was written out during the episode \"Larry's Birthday\", where Artie fired Jerry because of his behavior. Eventually, Wallace Langham (Phil) replaced him as the talk show's head writer.\nSome popular episodes of the season were: \"Larry's Agent\", in which Larry tries to fire his agent; \"Broadcast Nudes\", in which Hank wants Darlene (Linda Doucett) to pose nude in \"Playboy\" magazine (Doucett actually appeared in the September 1993 edition of the magazine); \"Larry's Birthday\" in which Larry doesn't want anyone throwing a party for his birthday; \"The Grand Opening\", in which Hank tries to promote his new restaurant; \"Off Camera\", in which Artie has to deal with all the stress that Larry suffers every show and the season finale \"L.A. or N.Y?\", in which Larry leaves the talk show and moves to Montana, to protest the network's desire to shift the talk show's base from L.A. to New York.\n\nThe show was nominated for four Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Comedy Series but lost to \"Frasier\" (beginning a streak of fruitless nominations that would continue for the rest of the show's run). Rip Torn was nominated for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy. Todd Holland was nominated for Outstanding Directing in a Comedy Series for the episode \"Life Behind Larry\". Shandling, Paul Simms, Drake Sathers, Victor Levin and Maya Forbes were nominated for Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series for the episode \"Larry's Agent\".\n\nThe season premiered on July 22, 1994 and ended on October 12, 1994.\n\nSome of the most popular episodes of the season were: \"Montana\", in which the talk show gets back on the air after Larry discovers that life in Montana is not to his liking; \"You're Having My Baby\", in which a woman claims that she is having Larry's baby; \"Hank's Night in the Sun\", in which Hank fulfills his dream of becoming guest host; \"The Mr. Sharon Stone Show\", which Larry dates Sharon Stone and finds out what it means to be the less famous member of a show business couple; and the season finale \"End of the Season\" in which Larry gets engaged to Roseanne Barr.\n\nThe season was nominated for six Emmy awards, including, for the third year in a row, Outstanding Comedy Series. Shandling was nominated as Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series. Torn was nominated for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series. Todd Holland was nominated for Outstanding Directing in a Comedy Series for \"Hank's Night in the Sun\". The show received two nominations for Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series: Peter Tolan for \"Hank's Night in the Sun\", Shandling and Tolan for \"The Mr. Sharon Stone Show\". Shandling also received a Golden Globe nomination for Best Lead Actor in Musical or Comedy. Holland received a nomination for the Directors Guild of America Award for \"The Mr. Sharon Stone Show\".\n\nThe season premiered on July 19, 1995 and ended on November 22, 1995.\n\nLinda Doucett (Darlene) left the show at the end of season three. She had been in a six-year relationship with Shandling, but the couple became estranged between seasons and she was written out of the show. Doucett filed a lawsuit against Shandling and producer Brad Grey's company for sexual harassment and wrongful termination, which was settled out of court for $1 million. She was replaced as Hank's assistant by Scott Thompson (Brian).\n\nSome of the most popular episodes of the season included: \"Roseanne's Return\", in which Larry has to face Roseanne Barr after their engagement broke off; \"Arthur After Hours\", in which it is revealed what Artie does after an unsuccessful broadcast; \"Jeannie's Visit\", in which Larry's ex-wife visits the talk show; \"Hank's Sex Tape\", in which Hank becomes incensed when Phil circulates a tape of him having sex with two women; and the season finale \"Larry's On Vacation\", in which Sandra Bernhard tries to take over the talk show.\n\nThe show won its first Emmy award: Rip Torn for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series. It was nominated for a further 12, including for Outstanding Comedy Series. Jeffrey Tambor was also nominated for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series. Shandling was nominated for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series, and the show received two nominations for Outstanding Directing in a Comedy Series: One for Todd Holland for \"Arthur After Hours\", another for Michael Lehmann for \"I was a Teenage Lesbian\". It received three nominations for Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series: one for Shandling, Steve Levitan and Maya Forbes for the episode \"Roseanne's Return\", a second for Peter Tolan for the episode \"Arthur After Hours\", and a third for Jon Vitti for \"Hank's Sex Tape\". Janeane Garofalo was nominated for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series. Rosie O'Donnell and Mandy Patinkin were nominated for Outstanding Guest Actress and Guest Actor in a Comedy Series. Shandling was nominated for the second year in a row for Best Actor in a Musical or Comedy Series at the Golden Globe Awards. This season received four Writers' Guild of America Awards, one for Shandling, Steve Levitan and Maya Forbes for \"Roseanne's Return\", another for John Riggi for \"Hank's New Assistant\", another for Tolan for \"Arthur After Hours\" and finally one for Tolan for \"Eight\". It received one Director's Guild of America Award nomination: Todd Holland for the episode \"Arthur After Hours\".\n\nThe season premiered November 13, 1996 and ended on February 26, 1997.\n\nJaneane Garofalo decided to leave due to decreasing screen time for her character Paula, the talk show's talent booker. Mary Lynn Rajskub (Mary Lou, Paula's assistant) replaced her as booker. Jon Stewart became a frequent guest who threatened to replace Larry on the talk show.\n\nSome of the most famous episodes of the series were made in this season: \"Everybody Loves Larry\", in which Larry starts suspecting that David Duchovny has sexual feelings for him; \"My Name is Asher Kingsley\", in which Hank explores his Jewish roots; \"Ellen, or Isn't She?\", in which Larry and Artie try to find if Ellen DeGeneres is really a lesbian; \"The New Writer\", in which Wendy (Sarah Silverman) begins working as a writer, much to Phil's dismay; \"The Book\", in which Larry writes an autobiography; \"Pain Equals Funny\", in which Paula leaves the show; and the season finale, \"Larry's New Love\", in which Hank is afraid the network is trying to replace him.\n\nThe show was nominated for 16 Emmy awards, breaking the record for most nominations for a Comedy Series for an individual Emmy year. The record was maintained for ten years, until \"30 Rock\" received 17 nominations for its second season in 2008 and then 22 nominations for its third season in 2009. The show was nominated for the fifth time for Outstanding Comedy Series, and was considered a front-runner for the award, but was defeated again by \"Frasier.\" Shandling was nominated for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series. Torn and Tambor were nominated for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series. Janeane Garofalo was nominated for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series. It received two nominations for Outstanding Directing in a Comedy Series: one for Todd Holland for \"Everybody Loves Larry\", another for Alan Myerson for \"Ellen, Or Isn't She?\" It received three nominations for Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series: one for Shandling, John Markus and Judd Apatow for the episode \"Ellen, Or Isn't She?\", another for Peter Tolan for \"My Name is Asher Kingsley\", and another for Jon Vitti for \"Everybody Loves Larry\". David Duchovny and Ellen DeGeneres received nominations for Outstanding Guest Actor and Guest Actress in a Comedy Series. The show was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Series-Musical or Comedy. It received two Directors Guild of America Award nominations; one for Holland for \"Everybody Loves Larry\", another for Alan Myerson for \"Ellen, Or Isn't She?\" It was also nominated for two Writers' Guild of America Awards: one for Maya Forbes for \"The Book\" and another for Shandling, John Markus and Judd Apatow for \"Ellen, Or Isn't She?\"\n\nThe season premiered on March 15, 1998 and ended on May 31, 1998. Shandling decided to make this the final season in part because of his high workload on the show. The main story arc is the increasing pressure from the network to aim for a younger audience that results in Larry deciding to leave the talk show.\n\nMost of the changes to the show occurred offscreen this season. All of the show's writers left except Shandling, Tolan, and Apatow, and a new writing staff was hired. Shandling's relationship with his manager, Brad Grey, had broken down and in January 1998, Shandling filed a lawsuit for $100 million against Grey. In an interview with \"The New York Times\", Shandling said \"We had a situation in which the writers were leaving the show for other Brillstein-Grey shows, which became part of the issue of a lawsuit\". (The suit was settled out of court for $10 million.) Todd Holland, who directed more than 48 episodes of the show, only directed two of the sixth season. This season was also markedly less comedic than earlier ones. Sid, the cue card guy at the talk show, commits suicide in the episode \"I Buried Sid\".\n\nSome of the most popular episodes of the season were: \"Another List\", in which the network threatens to replace Larry with Jon Stewart unless he makes some changes; \"The Beginning of the End\", in which the talk show gets a new creative consultant who wants to make big changes; \"Adolf Hankler\", in which Hank has to play Adolf Hitler, while Larry is on vacation and Jon Stewart guest hosts; \"Beverly's Secret\", in which Beverly (Penny Johnson) tries to tell the father that she's pregnant; \"Putting the 'Gay' Back in Litigation\", in which Brian sues Phil and the talk show for sexual harassment; and the series finale \"Flip\", in which the cast gets ready for their final broadcast and Larry and Artie deal with Hank and the emotions of the crew.\n\nThe finale was written by Shandling and Tolan. It was directed by Holland with a running time of 53 minutes. It aired on May 31, 16 days after the finale of \"Seinfeld\", and was watched by 2.5 million viewers, which was a significant number for HBO. The finale got very positive reviews from critics, especially in comparison to \"Seinfeld\"'s series finale. Coincidentally, Jerry Seinfeld appears as himself in the \"Larry Sanders\" finale. Other guests in the finale included Warren Beatty, Jim Carrey and Sean Penn.\n\nFor its final Emmy year, it received 10 nominations and won two awards. Both wins were for the finale: Holland for Outstanding Directing in a Comedy Series; Shandling and Tolan for Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series. It received its sixth nomination for Outstanding Comedy Series, but lost once again to \"Frasier\", for the fifth year in a row. Shandling was nominated Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series. Torn and Tambor were nominated for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series. Richard Day, Alex Gregory and Peter Huyck were nominated for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series for \"Putting the 'Gay' Back in Litigation.\" It received only one nomination for Directors Guild of America Award: Holland for the episode \"Flip.\"\n\nThe following is a list of cast and characters who regularly appeared in one or more seasons of the show.\n\n\nThe following is a list of some of the celebrity guests who appeared on the show.\n\nIn a commentary on the season one DVD, Shandling says the guests were invariably happy to parody their media images and generally shared the same sense of humor as himself and the other writers.\n\nThe show had a total of thirteen directors. Ken Kwapis directed most of the first season, including the pilot, and contributed to the visual style of the show. (He later went on to direct episodes of \"The Office\", also including the pilot, using a \"mockumentary\" approach.) Todd Holland directed 51 episodes spanning all six seasons. Shandling directed three episodes of the final season. Acting coach Roy London directed two episodes and received a \"Special Thanks\" credit at the end of every episode for his influence on the show. The show received one Emmy Award for directing. It went to Holland for the series finale \"Flip\".\n\nMore than 40 writers wrote episodes of the show. Shandling and Tolan were the head writers for the entire six-season run. Shandling and Dennis Klein wrote the pilot episode of the show. Shandling wrote 38, while Tolan wrote 23 episodes. Shandling and Tolan received an Emmy Award for writing the series finale \"Flip\". Other writers on the show were Maya Forbes, Paul Simms, Judd Apatow, John Markus, John Riggi, Jon Vitti, Chris Thompson, Drake Sather, Molly Newman, Lester Lewis, Steven Levitan, Becky Hartman Edwards and Jeff Cesario.\n\nAfter the show ended, the \"New York Post\" called it \"One of the Greatest Achievements in Television\". \"LA Weekly\" called it \"Very Funny\". \"Time\" said it was \"The Closest Sitcom Ever Came to Perfect Pitch\". \"The Washington Post\" called the show \"Brutally and Blatantly Hilarious\" and \"USA Today\" gave it four stars.\n\nMany critics called it one of the greatest television shows of all time. Metacritic gives the show a metascore of 96%, based on 8 reviews. Doug Elfman from the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" said \"It is simply one of the best sitcoms ever\". Ivan Morales calls it \"the greatest HBO sitcom of all time\". Brooke Allen in the \"New York Times\" called it \"a comedy series so funny and risque as to make \"Seinfeld\" look positively bland\". Mark Monahan in \"The Telegraph\" called it \"very close indeed to comic perfection.\"\n\nDespite drawing small audiences, \"The Larry Sanders Show\" has been influential. It helped establish HBO's reputation for quality shows, leading to \"Sex and the City\", \"The Sopranos\", \"The Wire\" and \"Deadwood\". The show influenced subsequent series with satirical back-stage show business and celebrity culture themes, such as \"30 Rock\", \"My Life on the D-List\", \"The Showbiz Show\", \"Action\", and \"Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip\".\n\nThe show's most significant innovation is in celebrities playing themselves. It was followed in its use of celebrity guests, its lack of laugh track, and its comedy of embarrassment by \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", \"The Office\" and \"Arrested Development\". Shandling's performance is a precursor to Larry David's in \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\" and Ricky Gervais (\"The Office\", \"Extras\") as David Brent. Gervais said in \"Variety\" that he was heavily influenced by the show and that \"It taught me that flawed characters can be compulsive viewing — seeing them squirm and get their comeuppance.\" Armando Iannucci said that his political satire \"The Thick of It\" strove to mix comedy and authenticity in a similar manner to \"The Larry Sanders Show\".\n\nMatt Zoller Seitz wrote in \"Time Out Los Angeles\" that it introduced to television the cinematic technique of \"walk and talk\" where the camera follows the actors as they move around the offices in conversation. This later became an important part of the style of \"The West Wing\" and \"ER\". The show can also be seen as a distorted example of reality television because the portrayal of the talk show production is so convincing. According to Andrew Pulver in \"The Guardian\", \"This is where it all began. The whole postmodernist, self-reflexive fact-fiction sitcom thing.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAfter the show ended, it came to be considered one of the finest TV shows of all time. The biggest honor it received was a spot on \"Time magazine's\" 100 Greatest Shows of All Time. In 2008, \"Entertainment Weekly\" ranked \"The Larry Sanders Show\" the 28th Greatest Show of the past 25 years. Also, \"TV Guide\" named it the 38th Greatest Show of All Time, the only HBO comedy to make it to the list. During its six-year run, \"The Larry Sanders Show\" won 24 awards including three Emmy awards. In 1997, the episode \"Everybody Loves Larry\" was ranked 39 on TV Guide's 100 Greatest Episodes of All Time. In 2013, TV Guide ranked it No. 56 on its list of the 60 Best Series of All Time.\n\nIn 2000, \"The Larry Sanders Show: The Best Episodes\" was released by Sony Pictures UK in Region 2. The compilation contains the episodes: \"Montana\" (Robin Williams); \"Hank's Sex Tape\" (Henry Winkler, Norm Macdonald); \"Larry's Big Idea\" (Courteney Cox, David Letterman); \"I Was a Teenage Lesbian\" (Brett Butler). Also included are two first-season episodes, \"The Guest Host\" and \"The Talk Show\", as well as the second-season episode, \"The List\" which was left out of the US cable syndication package offered to Bravo.\n\nOn February 26, 2002 Sony Pictures Home Entertainment released the complete first season on DVD in Region 1.\n\nOn April 17, 2007, Sony Pictures Home Entertainment released a best-of compilation featuring episodes from all six seasons entitled \"Not Just the Best of the Larry Sanders Show\". The 4-disc DVD set includes 23 episodes and eight hours of interviews with members of the cast and guests including Sharon Stone, Jon Stewart, Tom Petty, Judd Apatow, Alec Baldwin, and David Duchovny.\n\nOn November 2, 2010, Shout! Factory released \"The Larry Sanders Show: The Complete Series\" on DVD in Region 1 (USA). The 17-disc set features extensive bonus features including featurettes, commentaries & outtakes. Shout! Factory has also released separate releases for seasons 2 & 3.\n\nOn August 27, 2013, it was announced that Mill Creek Entertainment had acquired the rights to various television series from the Sony Pictures library including The Larry Sanders Show. They subsequently re-released the first two seasons on June 24, 2014.\n\nOn May 19, 2015, Mill Creek re-released \"The Larry Sanders Show: The Complete Series\" on DVD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8527051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8527051", "title": "The Seventh Sin", "text": "The Seventh Sin\n\nThe Seventh Sin is a 1957 American drama film directed by Ronald Neame and starring Eleanor Parker, Bill Travers and George Sanders. It is based on the 1925 novel \"The Painted Veil\" by W. Somerset Maugham.\n\nIn post-World War II Hong Kong, unhappily married Carol (Eleanor Parker) has an affair with a married man, Paul (Jean Pierre Aumont). Her physician husband Walter (Bill Travers) discovers it and presents her with a choice: travel with him to a remote mainland village (where he will fight a cholera epidemic) or face the scandal of a very public divorce. She persuades him to reconsider and he proposes an alternative. If Paul's wife will agree to a divorce and he marries Carol within one week Walter will obtain a quiet divorce. Carol presents Walter's 'deal' to Paul, who regretfully declines, citing respect for his wife.\n\nCarol sees as her only choice to accompany Walter to the village, where she meets the rakish and booze-soaked Tim (George Sanders). He soon introduces her to nuns at the local hospital-convent and Carol begins to re-evaluate her self-absorbed life and character.\n\nWorking at the convent, Carol learns she is pregnant. She tells Walter she's unsure who is the father and he regrets her honesty. Shortly after, Walter contracts cholera and dies. Carol returns to Hong Kong and an uncertain future.\n\nThe film was originally announced as a vehicle for Ava Gardner.\n\nIt was adapted for the screen by Karl Tunberg and directed by Ronald Neame. Neame left the film during production and Vincente Minnelli took over uncredited.\n\nAccording to MGM records the film earned $250,000 in the US and Canada and $475,000 elsewhere resulting in a loss of $1,202,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "1173854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1173854", "title": "Tourist guy", "text": "Tourist guy\n\nThe \"tourist guy\" was a hoax that featured a digitally altered photograph of a tourist on the observation deck of the World Trade Center, supposedly on the day of the September 11 attacks, showing a plane about to hit the tower in the background. The photo became an Internet phenomenon as many manipulated pictures spread online. The man in the photograph was identified as Hungarian Péter Guzli, who took the photo in 1997. Guzli said he edited the photo as a joke for his friends and did not realize it would spread across the Internet.\n\nHe is also called numerous other names, including the \"accidental tourist\" (a reference to the novel and film \"The Accidental Tourist\"), \"Waldo\" (a reference to \"Where's Waldo?\"), the \"WTC Guy\", and the \"tourist of death\".\n\nShortly after 9/11, an image surfaced on the internet, purportedly from a camera found in the debris of the World Trade Center. The image showed a man, dressed in a wool cap, heavy jacket, and backpack, standing on the observation deck of the World Trade Center. Below him, a jet plane can be seen flying towards the building. Because of its closeness and low altitude, it seems certain to collide with the tower. The picture purported to be one taken mere moments before the attacks on the World Trade Center began.\n\nHoaxapedia from Museum of Hoaxes's online encyclopedia listed some of the inconsistencies that ultimately confirmed that the photograph was a hoax. These include:\n\n\nThe picture became a widely known example of an Internet Meme. As its fame spread, other people started to use the same tourist for other pictures. They included the tourist present at the sinking of the RMS \"Titanic\", at the John F. Kennedy assassination, the destruction of Air France Flight 4590 and at the Hindenburg disaster. In one version, the aircraft has been replaced with a Melbourne tram. Other pictures show him present at disastrous events in movies, like the destruction of the White House in \"Independence Day\", Godzilla demolishing Tokyo, or as the bus driver in \"Speed\". There are also pictures of him together with people from other famous photoshopped pictures, such as Bert or a man holding a huge cat. There even appeared a picture of the Yalta conference where Stalin is replaced by the man with the cat, with the tourist and Bert on the background.\n\nThe first person who claimed to be the tourist was the Brazilian businessman José Roberto Penteado. When Penteado started to get media attention, including an offer to be in a Volkswagen commercial, a 25-year-old Hungarian man, Péter Guzli, came forward as the real tourist. Guzli says, however, that he does not want publicity and did not originally release his last name.\n\nGuzli took the photo on November 28, 1997, and was also responsible for the initial edit. He said he edited the image for a few friends, not realizing it would spread so quickly across the Internet. He first provided the original undoctored photo and several other photos from the same series as proof to a Hungarian newspaper. Later on, the show \"Wired News\" examined the evidence and confirmed that Guzli was the real Tourist guy.\n\n"}
{"id": "8955762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8955762", "title": "Wheedle", "text": "Wheedle\n\nThe Wheedle is the title character of a popular children's book by author Stephen Cosgrove. The character eventually evolved into a popular mascot generally associated with the city of Seattle.\n\n\"Wheedle on the Needle\" (Serendipity Books, 1974), written by Stephen Cosgrove and illustrated by Robin James, was about a large, round, furry creature called the Wheedle who lived in the Northwest. Bothered by the whistling of workers first settling the city of Seattle, the creature was unable to sleep and became irritable, eventually moving to Mount Rainier to escape the noise. The Wheedle slept there peacefully for many years, his red nose blinking, until the region's growth brought people- and their whistling- to his doorstep once again. In an effort to silence the noise, the Wheedle gathered clouds in a large sack atop Mt. Rainier, returned to Seattle, climbed atop the Space Needle, and threw them into the sky to make it rain. With their lips wet from precipitation, the city's residents were unable to whistle, and the creature once again had some peace and quiet. Upset, the people sent the mayor to try and convince the Wheedle to stop the rain; when the creature explained his problem, the mayor had a giant pair of earmuffs constructed to muffle the disagreeable warbling. When they were presented to him, \"The Wheedle placed them over his ears, and smiled for the first time in years.\" In appreciation, the Wheedle gathered up all the clouds, put them back in his bag, and fell fast asleep - and once again, his big red nose began to blink. The book ends with a short poem: There's a Wheedle/On the Needle/I know just what/You're thinking/But if you look up/Late at night/You'll see/His red nose blinking.\n\nIn 2002, a second edition of the book was published. The story was significantly rewritten, generally matching the existing illustrations, but entirely eliminating environmental themes present in the original story and altering it so that the Wheedle was not native to the Seattle area.\n\nIn 2009, after battling with Penguin US for over 15 years, the rights to the book \"Wheedle on the Needle\" reverted to Cosgrove. Under a new agreement with Sasquatch Books of Seattle, Cosgrove has created a third edition which returns to the tone and themes of the original book, while making some revisions for quality. The new edition was released in Spring of 2010. The Wheedle is now back home, in Seattle.\n\nThere were also two other children's book featuring the Wheedle, entitled \"How to plant a Bunch of Stuff\" and \"How to Cook a Bunch of Stuff.\" The cookbook for kids features a pictorial; essay of the Wheedle demonstrating how to cook a \"bunch of stuff\" and to appreciate what their mothers do in the kitchen. The cookbook was by Stephen Cosgrove with recipes by Nancy Roberts. The garden book was by Stephen Cosgrove with planting tips by Ed Hume.\n\nFrom 1978 through 1985 the Wheedle was the official mascot of the NBA's Seattle SuperSonics, and was part of the organization when they won their only NBA Championship to date (in 1979). It would not be until 1993 that the Sonics would debut a new mascot, Squatch, who was the team's mascot until 2008. While representing the Sonics, the character wore a jersey bearing number 0. Robert Crosby performed the Wheedle as Seattle hosted the NCAA's Final Four for the first time. Toying with Brent Musberger on the sidelines, as well as in celebration with Georgetown's Patrick Ewing, it was a memorable highlight in the Wheedle's career. That same year Seattle acknowledged the Wheedle as an icon, honoring Wheedle as the Torchlight Parade's Grand Marshal. During the early years of the Wheedle's Sonics tenure, Laurel Brown a member of the Sonics staff was the Wheedle as the first female mascot of an NBA team. Her dance moves distinguished her from other mascots of that time. \n\nThe Wheedle was also the official mascot of the Space Needle from the late 1970s until 1984. In May 1982, the Space Needle opened a new addition at its level amidst controversy about altering the then 20-year-old structure, a mixed-use restaurant and banquet facility called \"The Wheedle in the Needle\". The facility existed as restaurant for only about a year, before it was converted to a full-time banquet facility (now referred to as the \"Skyline Level\"). The Space Needle adopted a new mascot, \"Sneedle,\" in 1997; however it appears that the character is no longer in use. \n\nIn 1993, the Wheedle became the mascot for KOMO-TV (Seattle's ABC affiliate), and appeared at many events wearing a KOMO hat and T-shirt. The character represented KOMO for several years before being unofficially retired in the late 1990s.\n\nFor several years, the Wheedle could be seen encased in a block of plastic \"ice,\" in a small SuperSonics museum, near the Sonics & Storm Team Shop at Seattle's KeyArena. Following the relocation of the team to Oklahoma City, its whereabouts are unknown.\n\nIn 1974, the Seattle band Annakonda (originally from Spokane) recorded a funky instrumental track called \"Wheedle's Groove.\" The song got significant airplay in the Seattle area and was released as a single a few years later, after a local radio station adopted it as the theme song for the SuperSonics during their run to the 1978 NBA Finals. In 2004, the song was part of a compilation CD entitled \"Wheedle's Groove: Seattle's Finest in Funk and Soul - 1965-75,\" on Seattle-based Light in the Attic Records. Similar Seattle funk and soul history was covered by Jennifer Maas's 2009 documentary of the same name. As of 2010 a group of musicians, largely veterans of these bands, have reunited to perform under the name Wheedle's Groove. They have a CD, \"Kearney Barton\" (2009) on Light in the Attic.\n\nIn the early 2000s there was short-lived band in Seattle called \"The Wheedle,\" a group that was active circa 2000-2001. The events calendar on the Experience Music Project (EMP) website described them as \"a trio from Seattle, WA composed of Robert Walker (drums/vocals), Ed Hodge (bass/vocals) and Joel Lederer (vocals/guitar). Their music blurs the lines of genre in favor of songwriting and lyrical exploration, mining the traditions of rock, folk, pop, alternative, blues, jazz and more to create a sound that is as familiar as it is unique.\n"}
