{"id": "9126169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9126169", "title": "1957 Bandy World Championship", "text": "1957 Bandy World Championship\n\nThe 1957 Bandy World Championship was contested among three men's bandy playing nations and was the first ever Bandy World Championship. Norway declined to take part due to the Soviet invasion of Hungary the year before.\n\nThe championship was played in Finland from 28 February to 3 March 1957, as part of the fifty year anniversary celebrations for the Ball Association of Finland, which at the time was the governing body for bandy in Finland. The tournament was officially opened by President of the republic Urho Kekkonen. All games, which were only three, were played at the Helsinki Olympic Stadium. The Soviet Union became champions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "304689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304689", "title": "1960 U-2 incident", "text": "1960 U-2 incident\n\nOn 1 May 1960, a United States U-2 spy plane was shot down by the Soviet Air Defence Forces while performing photographic aerial reconnaissance deep into Soviet territory. The single-seat aircraft, flown by pilot Francis Gary Powers, was hit by an S-75 Dvina (SA-2 Guideline) surface-to-air missile and crashed near Sverdlovsk (today's Yekaterinburg). Powers parachuted safely and was captured.\n\nInitially, the US authorities acknowledged the incident as the loss of a civilian weather research aircraft operated by NASA, but were forced to admit the mission's true purpose when a few days later the Soviet government produced the captured pilot and parts of the U-2's surveillance equipment, including photographs of Soviet military bases taken during the mission.\n\nThe incident occurred during the presidency of Dwight D. Eisenhower and the premiership of Nikita Khrushchev, around two weeks before the scheduled opening of an east–west summit in Paris. It caused great embarrassment to the United States and prompted a marked deterioration in its relations with the Soviet Union, already strained by the ongoing Cold War.\n\nPowers was convicted of espionage and sentenced to three years of imprisonment plus seven years of hard labor but was released two years later on 10 February 1962 during a prisoner exchange for Soviet officer Rudolf Abel.\n\nIn July 1958, U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower requested permission from Pakistani Prime Minister Huseyn Suhrawardy for the U.S. to establish a secret intelligence facility in Pakistan and for the U-2 spyplane to fly from Pakistan. The U-2 flew at altitudes that could not be reached by Soviet fighter jets of the era; it was believed to be beyond the reach of Soviet missiles as well. A facility established in Badaber (Peshawar Air Station), from Peshawar, was a cover for a major communications intercept operation run by the United States National Security Agency (NSA). Badaber was an excellent location because of its proximity to Soviet central Asia. This enabled the monitoring of missile test sites, key infrastructure and communications. The U-2 \"spy-in-the-sky\" was allowed to use the Pakistan Air Force section of Peshawar Airport to gain vital photo intelligence in an era before satellite observation.\n\nPresident Eisenhower did not want to fly American U-2 pilots over the Soviet Union because he felt that if one of these pilots were to be shot down or captured that it could be seen as an act of aggression. At a time like the Cold War, any act of aggression could spark open conflict between the two countries. In order to ease the burden of flying Americans into Soviet airspace the idea developed to have British pilots from the Royal Air Force fly these missions in place of the American Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). With the United Kingdom still reeling from the aftermath of the Suez Crisis and in no position to snub American requests, the British government was amenable to the proposal. Using British pilots allowed Eisenhower to be able to use the U-2 plane to see what the Soviet Union was hiding, while still being able to plausibly deny any affiliation if a mission became compromised.\n\nAfter the success of the first two British pilots and because of pressure to determine the number of Soviet intercontinental ballistic missiles more accurately, Eisenhower allowed the flying of two more missions before the Four Power Paris Summit, scheduled for 16 May. The final two missions before the summit were to be flown by American pilots.\n\nOn 9 April 1960, a U-2C spyplane of the special CIA unit \"10-10,\" piloted by Bob Ericson, crossed the southern national boundary of the Soviet Union in the area of Pamir Mountains and flew over four Soviet top secret military objects: the Semipalatinsk Test Site, the Dolon Air Base where Tu-95 strategic bombers were stationed, the surface-to-air missile (SAM) test site of the Soviet Air Defence Forces near Saryshagan, and the Tyuratam missile range (Baikonur Cosmodrome).\n\nThe plane was detected by the Soviet Air Defense Forces when it had flown more than over the Soviet national boundary and avoided several attempts at interception by a MiG-19 and a Su-9 during the flight. The U-2 left Soviet air space and landed at an Iranian airstrip at Zahedan. It was clear that the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency had successfully performed an extraordinary intelligence operation. The next flight of the U-2 spyplane from Peshawar airport was planned for late April.\n\nOn 28 April 1960, a U.S. Lockheed U-2C spy plane, Article 358, was ferried from Incirlik Air Base in Turkey to the US base at Peshawar airport by pilot Glen Dunaway. Fuel for the aircraft had been ferried to Peshawar the previous day in a US Air Force C-124 transport. A US Air Force C-130 followed, carrying the ground crew, mission pilot Francis Powers, and the back up pilot, Bob Ericson. On the morning of 29 April, the crew in Badaber was informed that the mission had been delayed one day. As a result, Bob Ericson flew Article 358 back to Incirlik and John Shinn ferried another U-2C, Article 360, from Incirlik to Peshawar. On 30 April, the mission was delayed one day further because of bad weather over the Soviet Union.\n\nThe weather improved and on 1 May, 15 days before the scheduled opening of the east–west summit conference in Paris, Captain Powers, flying Article 360, \"56–6693\" left the base in Peshawar on a mission with the operations code word \"GRAND SLAM\" to overfly the Soviet Union, photographing targets including the ICBM sites at the Baikonur Cosmodrome and Plesetsk Cosmodrome, then land at Bodø in Norway. At the time, the USSR had six ICBM launch pads, two at Baikonur and four at Plesetsk. Mayak, then named Chelyabinsk-65, an important industrial center of plutonium processing, was another of the targets that Powers was to photograph. A close study of Powers's account of the flight shows that one of the last targets he overflew, before being shot down, was the Chelyabinsk-65 plutonium production facility.\n\nThe U-2 flight was expected, and all units of the Soviet Air Defence Forces in the Central Asia, Kazakhstan, Siberia, Ural, and later in the USSR European Region and Extreme North, were placed on red alert. Soon after the plane was detected, Lieutenant General of the Air Force Yevgeniy Savitskiy ordered the air-unit commanders \"to attack the violator by all alert flights located in the area of foreign plane's course, and to ram if necessary\".\n\nBecause of the U-2's extreme operating altitude, Soviet attempts to intercept the plane using fighter aircraft failed. The U-2's course was out of range of several of the nearest SAM sites, and one SAM site even failed to engage the aircraft since it was not on duty that day. The U-2 was eventually brought down near Kosulino, Ural Region, by the first of three SA-2 Guideline (S-75 Dvina) surface-to-air missiles fired by a battery commanded by Mikhail Voronov. The SA-2 site had been previously identified by the CIA, using photos taken during Vice President Richard Nixon's visit to Sverdlovsk the previous summer.\n\nPowers bailed out but neglected to disconnect his oxygen hose first and struggled with it until it broke, enabling him to separate from the aircraft. Powers was captured soon after parachuting safely down onto Russian soil. Powers carried with him a modified silver dollar which contained a lethal, shellfish-derived saxitoxin-tipped needle, but he did not use it.\n\nThe SAM command center was unaware that the plane was destroyed for more than 30 minutes. One of the Soviet MiG-19 fighters pursuing Powers was also destroyed in the missile salvo, and the pilot, Sergei Safronov, was killed. The MiGs' IFF transponders were not yet switched to the new May codes because of the 1 May holiday.\n\nFour days after Powers' disappearance, NASA issued a very detailed press release noting that an aircraft had \"gone missing\" north of Turkey. The press release speculated that the pilot might have fallen unconscious while the autopilot was still engaged, even falsely claiming that \"the pilot reported over the emergency frequency that he was experiencing oxygen difficulties.\" To bolster this, a U-2 plane was quickly painted in NASA colors and shown to the media. Under the impression that the pilot had died and that the plane had been destroyed, the Americans had decided to use the NASA cover-up plan. Nikita Khrushchev used the American misstep to embarrass President Eisenhower and his administration.\n\nThat same day on 5 May, the Senate made its first comments on the U-2 incident, and began a domestic political controversy for Eisenhower. Mike Mansfield, the Senate Majority Whip, stated, \"First reports indicate that the President had no knowledge of the plane incident. If that is the case, we have got to ask whether or not this administration has any real control over the federal bureaucracy.\" Mansfield, more than any other person, highlighted the dilemma Eisenhower faced—Eisenhower could admit responsibility for the U-2 flight, and likely ruin any chances for détente at the Paris Summit, or he could continue to deny knowledge and indicate that he did not control his own administration.\n\nAfter Khrushchev found out about America's NASA cover story, he developed a political trap for Eisenhower. His plan began with the release of information to the world that a spy plane had been shot down in Soviet territory, but he did not reveal that the pilot of this plane had also been found and that he was alive. With the information that Khrushchev released, the Americans believed that they would be able to continue with their cover story that the crashed plane was a weather research aircraft and not a military spy plane. The cover-up said that the pilot of the U-2 weather plane had radioed in that he was experiencing oxygen difficulties while flying over Turkey. From there they claimed that the plane could have continued on its path because of auto-pilot, and that this could be the plane that crashed in the Soviet Union. The final attempt to make the cover story seem as real as possible was the grounding of all U-2 planes for mandatory inspection of oxygen systems in order to make sure that no other \"weather missions\" would have the same result as the one that was lost and possibly crashed in the Soviet Union.\n\nOn 7 May, Khrushchev sprang his trap and announced: \n\nAlso, because of the release of some photographs of the plane, there was evidence that most of the covert U-2 technologies had survived the crash. From this Khrushchev was able to openly embarrass the Eisenhower administration by exposing the attempted cover-up.\n\nKhrushchev still attempted to allow Eisenhower to save face, possibly to salvage the peace summit to some degree, by specifically laying the blame not on Eisenhower himself, but on Director of Central Intelligence Allen Dulles and the CIA: Khrushchev said that anyone wishing to understand the U-2's mission should \"seek a reply from Allen Dulles, at whose instructions the American aircraft flew over the Soviet Union.\" On 9 May, the Soviet premier told US ambassador Thompson that he \"could not help but suspect that someone had launched this operation with the deliberate intent of spoiling the summit meeting.\" Thompson also wrote in his diplomatic cable that Khrushchev suspected it was Allen Dulles, and that Khrushchev had heard about Senator Mansfield's remarks that Eisenhower did not control his own administration.\n\nUpon receiving this cable, Eisenhower, who frequently was very animated, was quiet and depressed. The only words he said to his secretary were, \"I would like to resign.\" Meanwhile, the domestic pressure continued to mount. Eisenhower then accepted Dulles's argument that the congressional leadership needed to be briefed on the U-2 missions from the last four years. Dulles told the legislature that all U-2 flights were used for aerial espionage and had been flown pursuant to \"presidential directives\". Still, Dulles played down Eisenhower's direct role in approving every previous U-2 flight.\n\nThe next day on 10 May, without consulting with any agency heads, House Appropriations Chair Clarence Cannon received considerable press attention when he, not President Eisenhower, revealed the true nature of the U-2 mission. He said to an open session of the House of Representatives that the U-2 was a CIA plane engaged in aerial espionage over the Soviet Union. Cannon said,\nAt the end of Cannon's speech, Democrats and Republicans uncharacteristically rose to their feet to applaud.\n\nStill Eisenhower faced criticism in the press for not controlling his own administration, as Cannon's speech only said the mission was \"under the aegis of\" the president, not \"directed by\". Press reports were creating a belief in the public that Eisenhower had lost control, which Eisenhower would not let stand. Knowing that he was jeopardizing the Paris Peace Summit, Eisenhower decided to reveal the aerial espionage program and his direct role in it, an unprecedented move for a U.S. president. His speech on 11 May revolved around four main points: the need for intelligence gathering activities; the nature of intelligence gathering activities; how intelligence activities should be viewed (as distasteful, but vital); and finally that Americans should not be distracted from the real problems of the day. Eisenhower closed passionately by reacting to the Soviet claim that the US acted provocatively and said: \"They had better look at their own [espionage] record.\" As he finished, he told reporters he was still going to the Paris Peace Summit.\n\nToday a large part of the wreck as well as many items from Powers's survival pack are on display at the Central Armed Forces Museum in Moscow. A small piece of the plane was returned to the United States and is on display at the National Cryptologic Museum.\n\nAlready from 1948, Norwegian Selmer Nilsen had been recruited by the Soviet intelligence organization GRU, amongst other foreigners, to spy on allied activity in NATO countries. Nilsen was assigned to watch allied military activity in northern Norway. The U-2 operations were linked with the airport Bodø, which was one of its permanent stations. Selmer Nilsen recorded U-2 activity in Bodø and forwarded much military information to the Soviet Union. He was convicted for espionage in 1968 in a closed trial in Norway, with a penalty of seven years and six months' imprisonment. He was released after three years.\n\nThe Summit was attended by Eisenhower, Khrushchev, French President Charles de Gaulle, and British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan. It was the first conference to be attended by both Soviet and western leaders in five years. However, prospects for constructive dialogue were dashed by the explosive controversy surrounding the U-2 flight over Soviet territory.\n\nAlthough the Four Powers Summit was the first meeting between western and Soviet leaders in five years when it was held, the mood was optimistic that there could be an easing of tensions between the Soviet Union and the United States. In an effort to present a less hostile, more cordial Soviet Union, Khrushchev publicly advocated a policy of \"peaceful coexistence with the United States.\" The May Day celebrations on 1 May of that year were marked by this newfound cooperative spirit. Absent were the militarized symbols of previous parades, such as artillery and armor. Instead there were children, white doves, and athletes. But the reaction of the Soviet government to the spy plane incident and the response from the United States doomed any potential meaningful peace agreement.\n\nIn the days directly leading up to the conference, tensions increased dramatically between the United States and the Soviet Union over the U-2 incident. At this point in the negotiations, the hardliners of the Soviet government were applying heavy pressure to Khrushchev. In the weeks leading up to the summit there had been a revitalization of anti-American sentiment within the Kremlin, with the Soviets blocking a planned trip to Washington D.C. of a Soviet air marshal, inviting Chinese communist leader Mao Zedong to Moscow, and launching an anti-American press campaign designed to critique \"American aggression\". At this time east and west were divided about how to move forward in Berlin, and the American press characterized Khrushchev's decision to emphasize the U-2 incident at the summit as an attempt to gain leverage on this issue.\n\nThe summit itself did not last long, with talks only beginning on 15 May and ending on 16 May. Both Eisenhower and Khrushchev gave statements on the 16th. Khrushchev blasted the United States on the U-2 incident. He pointed out that the policy of secret spying was one of mistrust and that the incident had doomed the summit before it even began. He expected the United States and Eisenhower to condemn the spying and pledge to end further reconnaissance missions.\n\nAt the summit, after Khrushchev had blown Eisenhower's cover, Eisenhower did not deny that the plane had been spying on Soviet military installations but contended that the action was not aggressive but defensive. He argued that the current state of international relations was not one in which peaceful coexistence was an already established fact. The policy of the United States towards the Soviet Union at that time was defensive and cautionary. Eisenhower also made the point that dialogue at the Four Powers Summit was the type of international negotiation that could lead to a relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union where there would be no need to spy on each other. Eisenhower also laid out a plan for an international agreement that authorized the U.N. to \"inspect\" any nations willing to submit to its authority for signs of increased militarization and aggressive action. He stated that the United States would be more than willing to submit to such an inspection by the U.N. and that he hoped to circumvent the spying controversy with this alternative international surveillance agreement.\n\nThe meeting during which both parties made their statements lasted just over three hours. During this time Khrushchev rescinded an invitation he had earlier given to Eisenhower to visit the Soviet Union.\n\nAccording to Walter Cronkite, Khrushchev would go on to say that this incident was the beginning of his decline in power as party chairman, perhaps because he seemed unable to negotiate the international arena and the communist hardliners at home. The collapse of the summit also saw an increased tension between the Soviets and the Americans in the years to come. After this debacle the arms race accelerated and any considerations for negotiations were dashed for the immediate future.\n\nAs a result of the spy plane incident and the attempted cover-up, the Four Power Paris Summit was not completed. At the beginning of the talks on 16 May, there was still hope that the two sides could come together even after the events that took place earlier in May, but Eisenhower refused to apologize and Khrushchev left the summit one day after it had begun. Some people said that Khrushchev had overreacted to the event in an attempt to strengthen his own position, and for that, he was the one to blame for the collapse of the Four Power Paris Summit.\n\nBefore the U-2 incident Khrushchev and Eisenhower had been getting along well and the summit was going to be an opportunity for the two sides to come together. Also, Eisenhower had been looking forward to a visit to the Soviet Union and was very upset when his invitation was retracted. The two sides were going to discuss topics such as nuclear arms reduction and also how to deal with increasing tensions surrounding Berlin. According to Eisenhower, had it not been for the U-2 incident the summit and his visit to the Soviet Union could have greatly helped Soviet and American relations.\n\nThe Soviet Union convened a meeting of the United Nations Security Council on 23 May to tell their side of the story. The meetings continued for four days with other allegations of spying being exchanged, as well as recriminations over the Paris Summit, and a US offer of an \"open skies\" proposal to allow reciprocal flights over one another's territory, at the end of which the Soviet Union overwhelmingly lost a vote on a concise resolution which would have condemned the incursions and requested the US to prevent their recurrence.\n\nThe incident severely compromised Pakistan's security and worsened relations with the United States. As an attempt to put up a bold front, General Khalid Mahmud Arif of the Pakistan Army, while commenting on the incident, stated that \"Pakistan felt deceived because the US had kept her in the dark about such clandestine spy operations launched from Pakistan's territory.\" The communications wing at Badaber was formally closed down on 7 January 1970. Further, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee held a lengthy inquiry into the U-2 incident.\n\nUpon his capture, Gary Powers told his Soviet captors what his mission had been and why he had been in Soviet airspace. He did this in accordance with orders that he had received before he went on his mission. Powers pleaded guilty and was convicted of espionage on 19 August and sentenced to three years imprisonment and seven years of hard labor. He served one year and nine months of the sentence before being exchanged for Rudolf Abel on 10 February 1962. The exchange occurred on the Glienicke Bridge connecting Potsdam, East Germany, to West Berlin.\n\nThe incident showed that even high-altitude aircraft were vulnerable to Soviet surface-to-air missiles. As a result, the United States began emphasizing high-speed, low-level flights for its previously high altitude B-47, B-52 and B-58 bombers, and began developing the supersonic F-111, which would include an FB-111A variant for the Strategic Air Command. The Corona spy satellite project was accelerated. The CIA also accelerated the development of the Lockheed A-12 OXCART supersonic spyplane that first flew in 1962 and later began developing the Lockheed D-21 unmanned drone.\n\nThe original consensus about the cause of the U-2 incident was that the spy plane had been shot down by one of a salvo of 14 Soviet SA-2 missiles. This story was originated by Oleg Penkovsky, a GRU agent who spied for MI6. In 2010, CIA documents were released indicating that \"top US officials never believed Powers's account of his fateful flight because it appeared to be directly contradicted by a report from the National Security Agency\" which alleged that the U-2 had descended from 65,000 to 34,000 feet (19,812 to 10,363 m) before changing course and disappearing from radar. One contemporary reading of the NSA's story is that they mistakenly tracked the descent of a MiG-19 piloted by Sr. Lt. Sergei Safronov.\n\nIn 1996, Soviet pilot Captain Igor Mentyukov claimed that, at altitude, under orders to ram the intruder, he had caught the U-2 in the slipstream of his unarmed Sukhoi Su-9, causing the U-2 to flip over and break its wings. The salvo of missiles had indeed scored a hit, downing a pursuing MiG-19, not the U-2. Mentyukov said that if a missile had hit the U-2, its pilot would not have lived.\n\nThough the normal Su-9 service ceiling was , Mentyukov's aircraft had been modified to achieve higher altitudes, having its weapons removed. With no weapons, the only attack option open to him was aerial ramming. Mentyukov asserted that Soviet generals concealed these facts to avoid challenging Nikita Khrushchev's faith in the efficiency of Soviet air defenses.\n\nIn 2000, Sergei Khrushchev wrote about the experience of his father, Nikita Khrushchev, in the incident. He described how Mentyukov attempted to intercept the U-2, but failed to gain visual contact. Major Mikhail Voronov, in control of a battery of anti-aircraft missiles, fired three SA-2s at the radar contact but only one ignited. It quickly rose toward the target and exploded in the air behind the U-2 but near enough to violently shake the aircraft, tearing off its long wings. At a lower altitude, Powers climbed out of the falling fuselage and parachuted to the ground. Uncertainty about the initial shootdown success resulted in 13 further anti-aircraft missiles being fired by neighboring batteries, but the later missiles only hit a pursuing MiG-19 piloted by Sr. Lt. Sergei Safronov, mortally wounding him. This account of the events that occurred during the mission match the details that were given to the CIA by Gary Powers. According to Powers, a missile exploded behind him and after this occurred his U-2 began to nosedive. It is at this point that Powers began to make all of the preparations to eject. Powers landed safely and tried to hide in the Russian countryside until he could get help. His attempts to do this failed and he was captured. Sergei Safronov was posthumously awarded the Order of the Red Banner.\n\nIn 2015 the Steven Spielberg feature film \"Bridge of Spies\" was released, which dramatized James B. Donovan (Tom Hanks )'s negotiations for Powers' release, but took certain liberties with what really happened. For instance, Powers is shown being tortured by the Soviets, when in reality he was treated well by his captors and spent much of his time doing handicrafts.\n\nIn January 2016, the BBC magazine produced photographs from the time and an interview with Powers's son.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\nAnalogous incidents:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "733993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=733993", "title": "1991 Soviet coup d'état attempt", "text": "1991 Soviet coup d'état attempt\n\nThe 1991 Soviet coup d'état attempt, also known as the August Coup ( \"August Putsch\"), was an attempt by members of the government of the USSR to take control of the country from Soviet President and General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev. The coup leaders were hard-line members of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) who were opposed to Gorbachev's reform program and the new union treaty that he had negotiated which decentralized much of the central government's power to the republics. They were opposed, mainly in Moscow, by a short but effective campaign of civil resistance led by Russian president Boris Yeltsin, who had been both an ally and critic of Gorbachev. Although the coup collapsed in only two days and Gorbachev returned to power, the event destabilized the USSR and is widely considered to have contributed to both the demise of the CPSU and the dissolution of the USSR.\n\nAfter the capitulation of the State Committee on the State of Emergency (GKChP), popularly referred to as the \"Gang of Eight\", both the Supreme Court of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR) and Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev described their actions as a coup attempt.\n\nSince assuming power as General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in 1985, Gorbachev had embarked on an ambitious program of reform, embodied in the twin concepts of \"perestroika\" and \"glasnost\", meaning economic/political restructuring and openness, respectively. These moves prompted resistance and suspicion on the part of hardline members of the \"nomenklatura\". The reforms also unleashed some forces and movements that Gorbachev did not expect. Specifically, nationalist agitation on the part of the Soviet Union's non-Russian minorities grew, and there were fears that some or all of the union republics might secede. In 1991, the Soviet Union was in a severe economic and political crisis. Scarcity of food, medicine, and other consumables was widespread, people had to stand in long lines to buy even essential goods, fuel stocks were up to 50% less than the estimated need for the approaching winter, and inflation was over 300% on an annual basis, with factories lacking in cash needed to pay salaries.\nIn 1990, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Armenia and Georgia had already declared the restoration of their independence from the Soviet Union. In January 1991, there was an attempt to return Lithuania to the Soviet Union by force. About a week later, there was a similar attempt by local pro-Soviet forces to overthrow the Latvian authorities. There were continuing armed ethnic conflicts in Nagorno Karabakh and South Ossetia.\n\nRussia declared its sovereignty on 12 June 1990 and thereafter limited the application of Soviet laws, in particular the laws concerning finance and the economy, on Russian territory. The Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR adopted laws which contradicted Soviet laws (the so-called War of Laws).\n\nIn the unionwide referendum on 17 March 1991, boycotted by the Baltic states, Armenia, Georgia, and Moldova, the majority of the residents of the rest of the republics expressed the desire to retain the renewed Soviet Union. Following negotiations, eight of the nine republics (except Ukraine) approved the New Union Treaty with some conditions. The treaty would make the Soviet Union a federation of independent republics with a common president, foreign policy, and military. Russia, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan were to sign the Treaty in Moscow on 20 August 1991.\n\nOn 11 December 1990, KGB Chairman Vladimir Kryuchkov, made a \"call for order\" over Central television in Moscow. That day, he asked two KGB officers to prepare a plan of measures that could be taken in case a state of emergency was declared in the USSR. Later, Kryuchkov brought Soviet Defense Minister Dmitry Yazov, Internal Affairs Minister Boris Pugo, Premier Valentin Pavlov, Vice-President Gennady Yanayev, Soviet Defense Council deputy chief Oleg Baklanov, Gorbachev secretariat head , and CPSU Central Committee Secretary Oleg Shenin into the conspiracy.\n\nThe members of the GKChP hoped that Gorbachev could be persuaded to declare the state of emergency and to \"restore order\".\n\nOn 23 July 1991, a number of party functionaries and literati published in the hardline newspaper \"Sovetskaya Rossiya\" as a prime factor to an anti-Perestroika manifesto entitled A Word to the People.\n\nSix days later, Gorbachev, Russian President Boris Yeltsin and Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev discussed the possibility of replacing such hardliners as Pavlov, Yazov, Kryuchkov and Pugo with more liberal figures. Kryuchkov, who had placed Gorbachev under close surveillance as Subject 110 several months earlier, eventually got wind of the conversation.\n\nOn 4 August, Gorbachev went on holiday to his dacha in Foros, Crimea. He planned to return to Moscow in time for the New Union Treaty signing on 20 August.\n\nOn 17 August, the members of the GKChP met at a KGB guesthouse in Moscow and studied the treaty document. They believed the pact would pave the way to the Soviet Union's breakup, and decided that it was time to act. The next day, Baklanov, Boldin, Shenin, and USSR Deputy Defense Minister General Valentin Varennikov flew to Crimea for a meeting with Gorbachev. They demanded that Gorbachev either declare a state of emergency or resign and name Yanayev as acting president to allow the members of the GKChP \"to restore order\" in the country.\n\nGorbachev has always claimed that he refused point blank to accept the ultimatum. Varennikov has insisted that Gorbachev said: \"Damn you. Do what you want. But report my opinion!\" However, those present at the dacha at the time testified that Baklanov, Boldin, Shenin, and Varennikov had been clearly disappointed and nervous after the meeting with Gorbachev. With Gorbachev's refusal, the conspirators ordered that he remain confined to the Foros dacha; at the same time the dacha's communication lines (which were controlled by the KGB) were shut down. Additional KGB security guards were placed at the dacha gates with orders to stop anybody from leaving.\n\nThe members of the GKChP ordered 250,000 pairs of handcuffs from a factory in Pskov to be sent to Moscow and 300,000 arrest forms. Kryuchkov doubled the pay of all KGB personnel, called them back from holiday, and placed them on alert. The Lefortovo Prison was emptied to receive prisoners.\n\nThe members of the GKChP met in the Kremlin after Baklanov, Boldin, Shenin and Varennikov returned from Crimea. Yanayev, Pavlov and Baklanov signed the so-called \"Declaration of the Soviet Leadership\" in which they declared the state of emergency in all of the USSR and announced that the State Committee of the State of Emergency (Государственный Комитет по Чрезвычайному Положению, ГКЧП, or \"Gosudarstvenniy Komitet po Chrezvichaynomu Polozheniyu\", \"GKChP\") had been created \"to manage the country and to effectively maintain the regime of the state of emergency\". The GKChP included the following members:\n\nYanayev signed the decree naming himself as acting USSR president on the pretext of Gorbachev's inability to perform presidential duties due to \"illness\". These eight collectively became known as the \"Gang of Eight\".\n\nThe GKChP banned all newspapers in Moscow, except for nine Party-controlled newspapers. The GKChP also issued a populist declaration which stated that \"the honour and dignity of the Soviet man must be restored.\"\n\nAll of the State Committee on the State of Emergency (GKChP) documents were broadcast over the state radio and television starting from 7 a.m. The Russian SFSR-controlled Radio Rossii and Televidenie Rossii, plus \"Ekho Moskvy\", the only independent political radio station, were cut off the air. Armour units of the Tamanskaya Division and the Kantemirovskaya tank division rolled into Moscow along with paratroops. Four Russian SFSR people's deputies (who were considered the most \"dangerous\") were detained by the KGB at an army base near Moscow. The conspirators considered detaining Russian SFSR President Boris Yeltsin upon his arrival from a visit to Kazakhstan on 17 August, or after that when he was at his dacha near Moscow, but for an undisclosed reason did not do so. The failure to arrest Yeltsin proved fatal to their plans.\n\nYeltsin arrived at the White House, Russia's parliament building, at 9 am on Monday 19 August. Together with Russian SFSR Prime Minister Ivan Silayev and Supreme Soviet Chairman Ruslan Khasbulatov, Yeltsin issued a declaration that condemned the GkChP's actions as a reactionary anti-constitutional coup. The military was urged not to take part in the coup. The declaration called for a general strike with the demand to let Gorbachev address the people. This declaration was distributed around Moscow in the form of flyers.\n\nIn the afternoon, the citizens of Moscow began to gather around the White House and to erect barricades around it. In response, Gennady Yanayev declared the state of emergency in Moscow at 16:00. Yanayev declared at the press conference at 17:00 that Gorbachev was \"resting\". He said: \"Over these years he has got very tired and needs some time to get his health back.\"\n\nMeanwhile, Major Evdokimov, chief of staff of a tank battalion of the Tamanskaya Division guarding the White House, declared his loyalty to the leadership of the Russian SFSR. Yeltsin climbed one of the tanks and addressed the crowd. Unexpectedly, this episode was included in the state media's evening news.\n\nAt noon, Moscow military district commander General Kalinin, whom Yanayev appointed as military commandant of Moscow, declared a curfew in Moscow from 23:00 to 5:00, effective from 20 August. This was understood as the sign that the attack on the White House was imminent.\n\nThe defenders of the White House prepared themselves, most of them being unarmed. Evdokimov's tanks were moved from the White House in the evening. The makeshift White House defense headquarters was headed by General Konstantin Kobets, a Russian SFSR people's deputy.\n\nIn the afternoon, Kryuchkov, Yazov and Pugo finally decided to attack the White House. This decision was supported by other GKChP members. Kryuchkov and Yazov's deputies, KGB general Ageyev and Army general Vladislav Achalov, respectively, planned the assault, codenamed \"Operation Grom\" (Thunder), which would gather elements of the Alpha and Vympel elite special force units, with the support of the paratroopers, Moscow OMON, the Internal Troops of the Dzerzhinsky division, three tank companies and a helicopter squadron. Alpha Group commander General Viktor Karpukhin and other senior officers of the unit together with Airborne Troops deputy commander Gen. Alexander Lebed mingled with the crowds near the White House and assessed the possibility of such an operation. After that, Karpukhin and Vympel commander Colonel Beskov tried to convince Ageyev that the operation would result in bloodshed and should be canceled. Lebed, with the consent of his immediate superior, Pavel Grachev, returned to the White House and secretly informed the defense headquarters that the attack would begin at 2:00.\n\nWhile the events were unfolding in the capital, Estonia's Supreme Council declared at 23:03 the full reinstatement of the independent status of the Republic of Estonia after 41 years.\n\nAt about 1:00, not far from the White House, trolleybuses and street cleaning machines barricaded a tunnel against oncoming Taman Guards infantry fighting vehicles (IFVs). Three men were killed in the incident, Dmitry Komar, Vladimir Usov, and Ilya Krichevsky, while several others were wounded. Komar, a 22 year old veteran from the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, was shot and crushed trying to cover a moving IFV's observation slit. Usov, a 37 year old economist, was killed by a stray bullet whilst coming to Komar's aid. The crowd set fire to an IFV and Krichevsky, a 28 year old architect, was shot dead as the troops escaped. According to Sergey Parkhomenko, a journalist and democracy campaigner who was in the crowd defending the White House, “Those deaths played a crucial role: Both sides were so horrified that it brought a halt to everything.” Alpha Group and Vympel did not move to the White House as had been planned and Yazov ordered the troops to pull out from Moscow.\n\nThe troops began to move from Moscow at 8:00. The GKChP members met in the Defence Ministry and, not knowing what to do, decided to send Kryuchkov, Yazov, Baklanov, Tizyakov, Anatoly Lukyanov, and Deputy CPSU General Secretary Vladimir Ivashko to Crimea to meet Gorbachev, who refused to meet them when they arrived. With the dacha's communications to Moscow restored, Gorbachev declared all the GKChP's decisions void and dismissed its members from their state offices. The USSR General Prosecutors Office started the investigation of the coup.\n\nDuring that period, the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia declared its sovereignty officially completed with a law passed by its deputies, confirming the independence restoration act of 4 May as an official act. In Tallinn, just a day after the resitution of independence, the Tallinn TV Tower was taken over by the Airborne Troops, while the television broadcast was cut off for a while, the radio signal was strong as a handful of Estonian Defence League (the unified paramilitary armed forces of Estonia) members barricaded the entry into signal rooms. In the evening, as news of the failure of the coup reached the republic, the paratroopers departed from the tower and left the capital.\n\nGorbachev and the GKChP delegation flew to Moscow, where Kryuchkov, Yazov, and Tizyakov were arrested upon arrival in the early hours of 22 August. Pugo committed suicide along with his wife the next day. Pavlov, Vasily Starodubtsev, Baklanov, Boldin, and Shenin would be in custody within the next 48 hours.\n\nSince several heads of the regional executive committees supported the GKChP, on 21 August the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR adopted Decision No. 1626-1, which authorized Russian President Boris Yeltsin to appoint heads of regional administrations, although the Russian constitution did not empower the president with such authority. It passed another decision the next day which declared the old imperial colors as Russia's national flag. It eventually replaced the Russian SFSR flag two months later.\n\nOn the night of 24 August, the Felix Dzerzhinsky statue in front of the KGB building at Dzerzhinskiy Square (Lubianka) was dismantled, while thousands of Moscow citizens took part in the funeral of Dmitry Komar, Vladimir Usov and Ilya Krichevsky, the three citizens who died in the tunnel incident. Gorbachev posthumously awarded them with the title of Hero of the Soviet Union. Yeltsin asked their relatives to forgive him for not being able to prevent their deaths.\n\nGorbachev resigned as CPSU General Secretary on 24 August. Vladimir Ivashko replaced him as acting General Secretary but resigned on 29 August when the Supreme Soviet terminated all Party activities in Soviet territory. Around the same time, Yeltsin decreed the transfer of the CPSU archives to the state archive authorities, as well as nationalizing all CPSU assets in the Russian SFSR (which included not only the headquarters of party committees but also educational institutions, hotels, etc.). Yeltsin decreed the termination and banning of all Party activities on Russian soil as well as the closure of the Central Committee building in Staraya Square.\n\nOn 24 August, Mikhail Gorbachev created the so-called \"Committee for the Operational Management of the Soviet Economy\" (Комитет по оперативному управлению народным хозяйством СССР), to replace the USSR Cabinet of Ministers headed by Valentin Pavlov, a GKChP member. Russian prime minister Ivan Silayev headed this committee. On the same day the Verkhovna Rada adopted the Declaration of Independence of Ukraine and called for a referendum on support of the Declaration of Independence. The Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, the third most powerful republic in the union, also declared its independence the next day on 25 August which then established the Republic of Belarus.\n\nOn 5 September, the Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union adopted Soviet Law No. 2392-1 \"On the Authorities of the Soviet Union in the Transitional Period\" under which the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union had replaced Congress of People's Deputies and was reformed. Two new legislative chambers—the Soviet of the Union (Совет Союза) and the Soviet of Republics (Совет Республик)—replaced the Soviet of the Union and the Soviet of Nationalities (both elected by the USSR Congress of Peoples Deputies). The Soviet of the Union was to be formed by the popularly elected USSR people's deputies. The Soviet of Republics was to include 20 deputies from each union republic plus one deputy to represent each autonomous region of each union republic (both USSR people's deputies and republican people's deputies) delegated by the legislatures of the union republic. Russia was an exception with 52 deputies. However, the delegation of each union republic was to have only one vote in the Soviet of Republics. The laws were to be first adopted by the Soviet of the Union and then by the Soviet of Republics.\n\nAlso created was the Soviet State Council (Государственный совет СССР), which included the Soviet President and the presidents of union republics. The \"Committee for the Operational Management of the Soviet Economy\" was replaced by the USSR Inter-republican Economic Committee (Межреспубликанский экономический комитет СССР), also headed by Ivan Silayev.\n\nOn 27 August, the first state became independent, when the Supreme Soviet of Moldova declared the independence of Moldova from the Soviet Union. The Supreme Soviets of Azerbaijan and Kyrgyzstan did the same on 30 and 31 August respectively. Afterwards, on 6 September the newly created Soviet State Council recognized the independence of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Estonia had declared re-independence on 20 August, Latvia on the following day, while Lithuania had done so already on 11 March 1990. Three days later, on 9 September the Supreme Soviet of Tajikistan declared the independence of Tajikistan from the Soviet Union. Furthermore, in September over 99% percent of voters in Armenia voted for a referendum approving the Republic's commitment to independence. The immediate aftermath of that vote was the Armenian Supreme Soviet's declaration of independence, issued on 21 September. By 27 October the Supreme Soviet of Turkmenistan declared the independence of Turkmenistan from the Soviet Union. On 1 December Ukraine held a referendum, in which more than 90% of residents supported the Act of Independence of Ukraine.\n\nBy November, the only Soviet Republics that had not declared independence were Russia, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. That same month, seven republics (Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, and Tajikistan) agreed to a new union treaty that would form a confederation called the Union of Sovereign States. However, this confederation never materialized.\n\nOn 8 December Boris Yeltsin, Leonid Kravchuk and Stanislav Shushkevich—respectively leaders of Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus (which adopted that name in August 1991)—as well as the prime ministers of the republics met in Minsk, the capital of Belarus, where they signed the Belavezha Accords. This document declared that the Soviet Union had ceased to exist \"as a subject of international law and geopolitical reality.\" It repudiated the 1922 union treaty that established the Soviet Union, and established the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) in the Union's place. On 12 December, the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR ratified the accords and recalled the Russian deputies from the Supreme Soviet of the USSR. Although this has been interpreted as the moment that Russia seceded from the Union, in fact Russia took the line that it was not possible to secede from a state that no longer existed. The lower chamber of the Supreme Soviet, the Council of the Union, was forced to halt its operations, as the departure of the Russian deputies left it without a quorum.\n\nDoubts remained about the legitimacy of the signing that took place on 8 December, since only three republics took part. Thus, on 21 December in Alma-Ata on 21 December, the Alma-Ata Protocol expanded the CIS to include Armenia, Azerbaijan and the five republics of Central Asia. They also pre-emptively accepted Gorbachev's resignation. With 11 of the 12 remaining republics (all except Georgia) having agreed that the Union no longer existed, Gorbachev bowed to the inevitable and said he would resign as soon as the CIS became a reality (Georgia joined the CIS in 1993, only to withdraw in 2008 after conflict between Georgia and Russia; the three Baltic states never joined instead going on to join the European Union and NATO in 2004.)\n\nOn 24 December 1991, the Russian SFSR--now renamed the Russian Federation--with the concurrence of the other republics of the Commonwealth of Independent States, informed the United Nations that it would inherit the Soviet Union's membership in the UN--including the Soviet Union's permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council. No member state of the UN formally objected to this step. The legitimacy of this act has been questioned by some legal scholars as the Soviet Union itself was not constitutionally succeeded by the Russian Federation, but merely dissolved. Others argued that the international community had already established the precedent of recognizing the Soviet Union as the legal successor of the Russian Empire, and so recognizing the Russian Federation as the Soviet Union's successor state was valid.\n\nOn 25 December 1991, Gorbachev announced his resignation as Soviet president. The red hammer and sickle flag of the Soviet Union was lowered from the Senate building in the Kremlin and replaced with the tricolor flag of Russia. The next day, 26 December 1991, the Council of Republics, the upper chamber of the Supreme Soviet, formally voted the Soviet Union out of existence, thus ending the life of the world's first and oldest socialist state. All former Soviet embassies became Russian embassies while Russia received the nuclear weapons from the other former republics by 1996. A constitutional crisis occurred in 1993 had been escalated into violence and the new constitution adopted officially abolished the entire Soviet government.\n\nOn 1 November 1991, the RSFSR Congress of People's Deputies issued Decision No. 1831-1 On the Legal Support of the Economic Reform whereby the Russian president (Boris Yeltsin) was granted the right to issue decrees required for the economic reform even if they contravened the laws. Such decrees entered into force if they were not repealed within 7 days by the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR or its Presidium. Five days later, Boris Yeltsin, in addition to the duties of the President, assumed the duties of the prime minister. Yegor Gaidar became deputy prime minister and simultaneously economic and finance minister. On 15 November 1991 Boris Yeltsin issued Decree No. 213 On the Liberalization of Foreign Economic Activity on the Territory of the RSFSR whereby all Russian companies were allowed to import and to export goods and to acquire foreign currency (previously all foreign trade had been tightly controlled by the state). Following the issuing of Decree No. 213, on 3 December 1991 Boris Yeltsin issued Decree No. 297 On the Measures to Liberalize Prices whereby from 2 January 1992 most previously existing price controls were abolished.\n\nThe GKChP members and their accomplices were charged with treason in the form of a conspiracy aimed at capturing power. However, by the end of 1992 they were all released from custody pending trial. The trial in the Military Chamber of the Russian Supreme Court began on 14 April 1993. On 23 February 1994 the State Duma declared amnesty for all GKChP members and their accomplices, along with the participants of the October 1993 crisis. They all accepted the amnesty, except for General Varennikov, who demanded the continuation of the trial and was finally acquitted on 11 August 1994.\n\nThousands of people attended the funeral of Dmitry Komar, Ilya Krichevsky and Vladimir Usov on the 24 August 1991. Gorbachev made the three men posthumous Heroes of the Soviet Union, for their bravery \"blocking the way to those who wanted to strangle democracy.\". \n\nIn 1991 the Parliamentary Commission for Investigating Causes and Reasons of the coup attempt was established under Lev Ponomaryov, but in 1992 it was dissolved at Ruslan Khasbulatov's insistence.\n\nDuring his vacation in Kennebunkport, Maine, the President of the United States, George H.W. Bush made a blunt demand for Gorbachev's restoration to power and said the United States did not accept the legitimacy of the self-proclaimed new Soviet Government. He returned to the White House after rushing from his vacation home. Bush then issued a strongly-worded statement that followed a day of consultations with other leaders of the Western alliance and a concerted effort to squeeze the new Soviet leadership by freezing economic aid programs. He decried the coup as a \"misguided and illegitimate effort\" that \"bypasses both Soviet law and the will of the Soviet peoples.\" President Bush called the overthrow \"very disturbing,\" and he put a hold on U.S. aid to the Soviet Union until the coup was ended.\n\nThe Bush statement, drafted after a series of meetings with top aides at the White House, was much more forceful than the President's initial reaction that morning in Maine. It was in keeping with a unified Western effort to apply both diplomatic and economic pressure to the group of Soviet officials seeking to gain control of the country.\n\nFormer President Ronald Reagan had said: \"I can't believe that the Soviet people will allow a reversal in the progress that they have recently made toward economic and political freedom. Based on my extensive meetings and conversations with him, I am convinced that President Gorbachev had the best interest of the Soviet people in mind. I have always felt that his opposition came from the communist bureaucracy, and I can only hope that enough progress was made that a movement toward democracy will be unstoppable.\"\n\nOn September 2, 1991, the United States re-recognized the independence of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania when Bush delivered the press conference in Kennebunkport.\nThe British Prime Minister John Major had expressed feelings in a 1991 interview on behalf of the UK about the coup and said \"I think there are many reasons why it failed and a great deal of time and trouble will be spent on analysing that later. There were, I think, a number of things that were significant. I don’t think it was terribly well-handled from the point of view of those organising the coup. I think the enormous and unanimous condemnation of the rest of the world publicly of the coup was of immense encouragement to the people resisting it. That is not just my view; that is the view that has been expressed to me by Mr. Shevardnadze, Mr. Yakovlev, President Yeltsin and many others as well to whom I have spoken to the last 48 hours. The moral pressure from the West and the fact that we were prepared to state unequivocally that the coup was illegal and that we wanted the legal government restored, was of immense help in the Soviet Union. I think that did play a part.\"\n\nMajor met with his cabinet that same day on 19 August to deal with the crisis. He added, \"There seems little doubt that President Gorbachev has been removed from power by an unconstitutional seizure of power. There are constitutional ways of removing the president of the Soviet Union; they have not been used. I believe that the whole world has a very serious stake in the events currently taking place in the Soviet Union. The reform process there is of vital importance to the world and of most vital importance of course to the Soviet people themselves and I hope that is fully clear. There is a great deal of information we don't yet have, but I would like to make clear above all that we would expect the Soviet Union to respect and honor all the commitments that President Gorbachev has made on its behalf,\" he said, echoing sentiments from a litany of other Western leaders.\"\n\nHowever, the British Government had frozen $80 million in economic aid to Moscow, and the European Community scheduled an emergency meeting in which it was expected to suspend a $1.5 billion aid program.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23906384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23906384", "title": "2009 Taconic State Parkway crash", "text": "2009 Taconic State Parkway crash\n\nThe 2009 Taconic State Parkway crash was a traffic collision that occurred shortly after on Sunday, July 26, 2009, on the Taconic State Parkway in the town of Mount Pleasant, near the village of Briarcliff Manor, New York. Eight people were killed when a minivan being driven by 36-year-old Diane Schuler traveled 1.7 miles in the wrong direction on the parkway and collided head-on with an oncoming SUV. The deaths included Schuler, her daughter and three nieces, and the three passengers in the oncoming SUV. The crash was the worst fatal motor vehicle accident to occur in Westchester County since July 22, 1934, when a bus accident in Ossining claimed 20 lives.\n\nThe ensuing investigation into the crash's cause received nationwide attention. Toxicology tests conducted by the medical examiner revealed that Schuler was heavily intoxicated with both alcohol and marijuana at the time of the crash. Schuler's husband, Daniel, has consistently denied that she used drugs or alcohol \"excessively\", and has made multiple national media appearances to defend his wife and call for further investigation into other possible medical causes for her erratic driving. An independent investigator hired by the Schuler family obtained DNA testing and toxicology testing of Schuler's samples, and also confirmed the results of the original testing.\n\nAt approximately on Sunday, July 26, 2009, 36-year-old Diane Schuler left the Hunter Lake Campground in Parksville, New York, in a red 2003 Ford Windstar that belonged to her brother. Riding with Schuler were her 5-year-old son and 2-year-old daughter, and her brother's three daughters (ages 8, 7, and 5). Her husband, Daniel Schuler, left the campground at the same time in a separate vehicle since he had a pickup truck and took the dog with him. A co-owner of the campground later said that Diane Schuler appeared sober when she departed.\n\nOn the way to West Babylon, Schuler stopped at a McDonald's fast-food restaurant and a Sunoco gas station in Liberty. While at the gas station, on surveillance video with no sound, it was reported that she attempted to buy over-the-counter pain-relief medication, possibly for a painful tooth, but the gas station did not sell any.\n\nSchuler left Liberty just after , traveling along Route 17/Interstate 86 and the New York Thruway (Interstate 87), entering the Ramapo service area, and crossing the Tappan Zee Bridge, heading east. Several witnesses later reported seeing a red minivan driving aggressively on Route 17/Interstate 86 and Interstate 87, including aggressively tailgating, flashing headlights, honking the horn, moving in and out of lanes, and straddling two lanes. At , Schuler called Warren Hance, her brother and father of her three nieces, from the van. She reportedly told him that they were being delayed by traffic. According to a police report, Schuler was seen by witnesses at approximately by the side of the road with her hands on her knees, as if vomiting; she was seen again in the same position a short time later, north of the Ramapo rest stop.\nAt about , another call was made to Hance from Schuler's cell phone. During this call, one of Schuler's nieces reportedly told her father that Schuler was having trouble seeing and speaking clearly. Schuler herself then talked to Hance and said that she was disoriented and could not see clearly. Police believe that the car was stopped in a pull-off area beyond the Tappan Zee Bridge tollbooths for at least part of this call. Hance reportedly told Schuler to stay off the road while he came to meet them; follow-up calls from Hance to Schuler were not answered. For some unknown reason, she left her cell phone on the highway, which was found by another motorist by the side of the road near the toll lanes of the Tappan Zee Bridge.\n\nInvestigators were trying to determine how (and why) Schuler got from the bridge to the Taconic State Parkway ramps near Briarcliff Manor, New York, which is from where the next information in this timeline comes.\n\nAt , two drivers called 911 after noticing Schuler's van edging onto the northbound exit ramp of the Taconic State Parkway near Briarcliff Manor. The end of the exit ramp (), at the intersection with Pleasantville Road, is marked with two signs that read \"\" and two signs that read \"\". Within the next minute, four more 911 calls were placed by motorists who reported that a car was traveling the wrong way down the parkway going approximately 75-85 mph.\nThe van traveled south for 1.7 miles in the parkway's northbound passing lane before colliding head-on, at approximately , with a 2004 Chevrolet TrailBlazer, which then struck a 2002 Chevrolet Tracker. At the time of impact, Schuler was traveling approximately 85 mph. Schuler, her daughter, and two of her nieces were dead at the scene of the crash (the children did not appear to have been in car seats, or even to have had seatbelts fastened), along with the three men in the TrailBlazer: 81-year-old Michael Bastardi, his 49-year-old son Guy, and their friend, 74-year-old Dan Longo. The two occupants of the Tracker suffered only minor injuries. Schuler's severely injured third niece and Schuler's 5-year-old son Bryan were taken to area hospitals, where the niece died later that day. Bryan is the only passenger of Schuler's vehicle to survive, suffering from broken bones and severe head trauma. He remained hospitalized before returning home in early October.\n\nTwo men who witnessed the accident and smoke rising out of the van ran to assist the occupants. After removing Schuler from the van, the two men saw a large, broken Absolut Vodka bottle by the driver's side. The men tried to pull the girls out of the van, and noted that they had no pulse. Because the children possibly were not seat belted in and thrown together, the men did not even notice Bryan stuck under another child. Bryan was the only survivor of the accident.\n\nThe investigation of the collision drew nationwide attention, as Schuler's husband strongly disagreed with the conclusion that she was heavily intoxicated at the time of the crash. A toxicology report released on August 4 by Westchester County medical examiners found that Schuler had a blood-alcohol content (BAC) of 0.19%, with approximately six grams of alcohol in her stomach that had not yet been absorbed into her blood. The legal BAC limit for Driving While Intoxicated in New York State is 0.08%. The report also said that Schuler had high levels of THC, the active ingredient in marijuana, in her system. She could have smoked marijuana as recently as fifteen minutes before the accident.\n\nIn an August 8 press conference, Daniel Schuler and his attorney Dominic Barbara initially denied that Diane did drugs or was drinking that weekend at the lake since several children were with them. Schuler then changed the story and consistently denied that his wife ever \"drank to excess\" or could have been drunk while driving that day. When Larry King and Oprah Winfrey asked Daniel about the vodka in the van, Daniel claimed that they always kept an old bottle in their camper. He further stated that Diane did all the packing for the camping trip, so she must have moved the bottle into the van.\n\nDaniel eventually admitted that he and his wife had been drinking during the camping trip, but denied that Diane had anything to drink on the day preceding the crash. The campground co-owner (who knew the Schulers well) saw them off at approximately that morning, and stated that Diane appeared sober. The gas station employee whom Schuler asked for Tylenol at around also said, \"[I knew] for a fact [that] she wasn't drunk when she came into the station.\" According to Tom Ruskin (an investigator supposedly hired by Daniel for $30,000), none of the McDonald's employees saw anything in Schuler's behavior to suggest that she was intoxicated. In fact, she was observed carrying on an extended conversation while ordering her food and orange juice.\n\nRuskin told reporters in September that he had interviewed relatives, none of whom had ever seen her in a drunken state. Ruskin also pointed to autopsy results that showed an absence of organ damage often found in alcoholics, although an uninvolved medical examiner said such results do not rule out alcoholism. Schuler relatives have also disputed that Diane was known to drink heavily or irresponsibly.\n\nDaniel Schuler denied that his wife did drugs, but told investigators that his wife smoked marijuana only \"occasionally,\" and the family told \"People\" magazine that she used it to relieve insomnia. Although Daniel Schuler was an officer in the Public Security Unit of the Nassau County Police Department, he was not required to report his wife's drug use as he is a civilian. In November, it was reported that Schuler's sister-in-law had made a statement to police that she actually smoked marijuana on a regular basis.\n\nDaniel Schuler and attorney Barbara believed that Schuler drove erratically due to a medical issue, such as a stroke. According to Barbara, Schuler was obese for much of her life and suffered from diabetes, although additional sources cite Schuler as only having had gestational diabetes, a temporary condition related to a prior pregnancy, rather than a chronic condition. Barbara has also mentioned an abscess that had persisted in her mouth for seven weeks before her death, and a lump in her leg, about which he said, \"[It] might have been an embolism\". The results of an autopsy conducted by a Westchester County medical examiner one day after the accident found that Schuler had not suffered a stroke, aneurysm, or heart attack.\n\nIn September, New York's top forensic pathologist said that a hair test should have been done to determine Schuler's drug history. Daniel Schuler and his lawyer announced plans to exhume the body to perform the hair test and other examinations; experts said that this was unlikely to produce any new information of value since tests from two separate labs came up with exactly the same conclusion. Schuler also intended to re-test the fluid samples taken during the autopsy. The Westchester County medical examiner's office, which performed the autopsy, said that the degradation of the fluids over time was likely to result in lowered alcohol and THC readings; however, several toxicology experts said that the results should be similar to the previous test if the fluid samples had been properly stored. On November 7, Ruskin announced that the Schuler family had raised the money to retest Schuler's tissue samples and that the retesting would take place soon. In July 2010, it was reported that Daniel Schuler had accepted a $100,000 offer from a film company, Moxie Firecracker Films, to record his wife's exhumation for an HBO documentary. The money would reportedly be placed in trust for son Bryan.\n\nDaniel Schuler's persistence in disputing his wife's intoxication and denying her drug use has been condemned by relatives of the three TrailBlazer victims. When Schuler appeared on CNN's \"Larry King Live\" to demand more testing of his wife's remains, Longo's brother Joseph issued a statement saying in part, \"I want Daniel Schuler to know that he keeps inflicting more pain on all concerned once again [by] going to the media to try [to] paint a picture of a perfect wife and mother.\" Bastardi's daughters appeared with their lawyer on NBC's \"Today\", during which they questioned Daniel's culpability in enabling his wife's substance abuse and called for him to undergo drug testing himself. \"It makes me angry that he keeps denying it,\" said Margaret Nicotina, Bastardi's daughter. \"Every time he does it, he brings it back for us. I just wish that he would just admit that she was drunk. Maybe if he knows what happened that morning, if they argued or anything, that would be the truth. He wants the truth. So do we.\" Their lawyer called Daniel Schuler's position totally outrageous, an insult to the intelligence of the American public, and a hoax. Ruskin said on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" in October 2009 that Daniel Schuler had avoided media appearances since \"Larry King Live\" out of respect to the Bastardi family.\n\nIn June 2010, the New York State Police issued its final report on the accident following eleven months of analysis. The report upheld the previous toxicology findings that Schuler was highly intoxicated and had high levels of THC in her system at the time of the accident.\n\nAccording to a Westchester County medical examiner, the crash was ruled a homicide soon after it occurred, because the victims were killed due to Schuler's negligent driving, regardless of toxicology findings. On August 18, Westchester County District Attorney Janet DiFiore said that no charges would be filed in the incident, because Schuler was the only person responsible for the deaths. \"Diane Schuler died in the crash and the charges died with her,\" DiFiore said. In October 2009, DiFiore faced accusations from Dan Schorr (a Republican challenger for her office) that she had mishandled the Schuler case. An attorney for the Bastardi family also alleged that DiFiore had mishandled the case. Both parties said that DiFiore should have initiated a grand jury investigation into the incident. In response to Schorr's comments, DiFiore responded, \"Is he suggesting that there was criminal evidence of a crime committed by someone and we wouldn't pursue it? That's just silly.\" DiFiore won re-election in November with 53 percent of the vote to Schorr's 36 percent. The Bastardi family said that if DiFiore did not convene a grand jury, they would seek support in the matter from the state attorney general and the governor.\n\nFollowing a request from the Bastardi family that an administrator be appointed for Schuler's estate so that a lawsuit could be filed, Daniel Schuler officially declined the role in November 2009, leaving it to a county-court judge to appoint a public administrator. On December 10, the Bastardi family filed suit against Diane Schuler and her brother, Warren Hance, seeking unspecified damages for wanton, willful, and reckless conduct. According to the family's lawyers, they were required by state law to include Hance in the suit because he was the owner of the van that Schuler was driving.\n\nIn July 2011, Jackie Hance, who lost her three daughters in the accident, filed suit against her brother-in-law, Daniel Schuler. The suit claims that the three deceased Hance girls suffered terror, fear of impending death, extreme horror, fright, and mental anguish. On July 26, 2011, the day after the premiere of HBO's \"There's Something Wrong with Aunt Diane\", and on the second anniversary of the crash, Daniel announced that he is suing the State of New York for not \"keeping the road safe\" and his brother-in-law Warren Hance for being the owner of the minivan that Diane was driving. By July 2014, all lawsuits by all parties were either settled or dropped. The judge sealed all the settlements.\n\nIn August 2009, New York Governor David Paterson proposed the Child Passenger Protection Act, which would make it a felony to drive while intoxicated if a passenger under the age of 16 is in a vehicle. The proposal became known as Leandra's Law, following the October 2009 death of 11-year-old Leandra Rosado, a passenger in a vehicle whose driver was drunk. The Child Passenger Protection Act was signed into New York law on November 18, 2009.\n\nIn September 2009, the syndicated talk show \"Dr. Phil\" broadcast an episode about drunk-driving moms that focused heavily on Schuler and the crash. The next month, Oprah Winfrey devoted an episode of her show to the crash, interviewing Schuler's private investigator Tom Ruskin via Skype, with Winfrey responding incredulously to several of his claims.\n\nThe \"Law & Order\" episode \"Doped,\" which first aired in November 2009, centers on a crash extremely similar to the Taconic Parkway incident. The fictionalized version features a woman who speeds down the West Side Highway in the wrong direction before crashing and killing herself, her daughter and her two nieces, and another family in another car. Bastardi relatives reacted with anger upon hearing that the NBC show would be basing an episode on the real-life tragedy.\n\n\"There's Something Wrong with Aunt Diane\", directed by Liz Garbus for HBO Documentaries, establishes a timeline of events prior to the accident. The documentary suggests that Schuler could have been suffering from severe pain caused by a tooth abscess during the drive home, causing her to look for painkillers at the gas station and self-medicate with drugs and alcohol. The pain of the abscess, combined with vodka and marijuana, could have put her in a temporary state of delirium that triggered her fatal behavior. In the documentary, Daniel Schuler and attorney Barbara claim they gave investigator Ruskin $30,000 to conduct an independent investigation and to re-test samples. Throughout the documentary, Jay Schuler, Diane Schuler's sister-in-law, and husband Daniel Schuler claim that Ruskin was not returning their phone calls for nine months. At the end of the documentary, Ruskin states that he had called her months ago with the results, and that she refused to pick up her phone. She is seen claiming that \"she was told not to pick up\" and \"that she didn't understand any of it.\" Ruskin then informs her that his tests corroborated the previous tests; that Diane Schuler was highly intoxicated from alcohol and marijuana. Schuler's family persisted in refusing to accept the test results.\n\nJackie Hance wrote a book called \"I'll See You Again\" in which the tragedy is revisited, focusing on her initial grief and later reemergence into life. Stephen King's short story \"Herman Wouk is Still Alive\" in \"Bazaar of Bad Dreams\" (2015) is, according to King, a fictional attempt to find answers to questions about what led to the crash and \"perhaps to obtain some sort of closure.\"\n\nJackie and Warren Hance formed a foundation, the Hance Family Foundation, whose main purpose is to honor the lives of their three daughters by ensuring healthy, happy, and safe children through innovative self-esteem educational programming. The foundation's central project is Beautiful Me, a self-esteem program designed to educate girls by promoting appreciation for their genuine qualities, accurate self-awareness, and the satisfaction of helping others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37257282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37257282", "title": "Alan Jones \"died of shame\" controversy", "text": "Alan Jones \"died of shame\" controversy\n\nThe Alan Jones \"died of shame\" controversy originated from a speech made by Australian radio broadcaster Alan Jones in September 2012, in which Jones suggested that then-Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard's late father, John, \"died of shame\" over his daughter telling lies.\n\nOn 23 September 2012, Sydney University Liberal Club hosted its annual president's dinner with a keynote address by Sydney radio presenter Alan Jones. In his address, Jones was cited as saying, in reference to Prime Minister Julia Gillard's recently deceased father, John Gillard, \"The old man recently died a few weeks ago of shame. To think that he had a daughter who told lies every time she stood for parliament\". At the same event, the Club was auctioning a jacket made from chaff bags, autographed by Alan Jones, a reference to his previous comments on radio that Julia Gillard should be \"put into a chaff bag and thrown into the sea\".\n\nFollowing this speech being made public by the media on 29 September 2012, there were calls for 2GB to dismiss Jones. Jones' speech was secretly recorded by a News Limited journalist. After the remarks were condemned across social media and the Australian media, Jones held a press conference and apologised. Jones also attempted to contact the Prime Minister to offer a personal apology, but was told she would not be returning his call. One academic linked the public reaction to the \"bigger political and media context\", citing the Leveson Inquiry in Britain, saying that it shows the \"dark side of media power, including bullying by media owners and powerful media individuals who lobby politicians, demand favours, use their outlets as a bully pulpit and to seek revenge when they don't get their way.\"\n\nFollowing the controversy over the comments made by Jones, on 7 October his employer, Macquarie Radio Network, announced that it would suspend all advertising on the Alan Jones breakfast show on 2GB to protect its advertisers from pressure being applied through social media activism.\n\nJones returned to the airwaves on 8 October 2012 without advertising.\n\nAdvertising resumed on the Jones' show on 16 October 2012 without many major advertisers.\n\nPrime Minister Julia Gillard said she would not comment on Jones's remarks, but instead thanked the Australian people for the \"outpouring of support\" that she and her family had received following the death of her father. When asked if she would appear on Jones's radio program she said, \"No, I would not. I haven't spoken to Mr Jones and I don't intend to.\"\n\nFormer Prime Minister Kevin Rudd described the comments as the \"lowest of the low\" and said he would be boycotting Jones's program.\n\nForeign Minister Bob Carr said Jones's comments were indecent and the public reaction was justifiable. Senator Carr further said \"I cannot believe that it is helpful for a commercial enterprise to live with the brand 'hate radio'. And I just think the vehemence and the virulence of the message that comes out of the radio station is a very unhelpful thing for Australia.”\n\nOpposition member Malcolm Turnbull said Jones's remarks were \"cruel and offensive\" and that \"he should apologise to the PM and her family\". He described the power of the social media campaign that caused sponsors to act as \"both inspiring and horrifying\" and said Jones has got \"a dose of his own medicine\". Turnbull further said that Jones had not been the victim of cyberbullying as Jones claimed but new media had allowed thousands of Australians to speak up \"unedited and unmediated\".\n\nOpposition Leader Tony Abbott described Jones's comments as \"wrong and offensive\". However, he used the word 'shame' in parliament on 9 October, stating that due to the ongoing Peter Slipper affair the government \"should already have died of shame\". Gillard responded, publicly addressing this issue directly for the first time, criticising Abbott during parliamentary question time for \"misogyny and sexism\". Her speech was reported worldwide, going \"viral\" on social media outlets.\n\nWoolworths state government relations manager Simon Berger who was the master of ceremonies at the function where Jones spoke, and who had donated the chaff bag jacket auctioned, resigned from his position as a result of this controversy. Woolworths said \"While Simon attended the function in a private capacity, he has acknowledged that it has directly affected his ability to carry out his role at Woolworths as a member of Corporate Affairs team.\"\n\nBy 17 October, three regional radio stations, Albury based 2AY, Deniliquin based station 2QN and Darwin's Territory FM had stopped broadcasting Jones' show.\n\nMore than 80 companies pulled out of advertising from the Alan Jones Show including Mercedes-Benz Hornsby, Woolworths, Freedom Furniture, Lexus of Parramatta, Coles, ING, Bing Lee, Mazda, 7-Eleven, Sydney Symphony Orchestra and HCF Health Insurance. The pull out by advertisers was reported to cost 2GB up to $80,000 per day.\n\nMercedes Benz also withdrew Jones' Mercedes S-Class worth $250,000 which was part of the sponsorship deal.\n\nMacquarie Radio estimated the boycott cost the station between $1 million and $1.5 million, and some advertisers said they will never return.\n\nIn the Nielsen radio survey conducted between 29 July 2012 and 20 October 2012, Jones increased his share of total radio listeners, gaining an extra 0.5% of the market. Jones had 17.3 per cent of the audience for 2GB from 5.30am to 9am.\n\nThe Nielsen radio survey conducted between 28 October 2012 and 23 February 2013 indicates the 2GB audience is 15.4 per cent for the 5.30am to 9.00am time slot.\n\n"}
{"id": "1442802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1442802", "title": "Allied Military Government for Occupied Territories", "text": "Allied Military Government for Occupied Territories\n\nThe Allied Military Government for Occupied Territories (originally abbreviated AMGOT, later AMG) was the form of military rule administered by Allied forces during and after World War II within European territories they occupied.\n\nThis form of controlled government was implemented in the states of Germany, Italy, Austria and Japan, amongst others.\n\nUS President Franklin Roosevelt insisted that an AMGOT should be implemented in France, but this was opposed by both Henry Stimson, the US Secretary of War, the US Under-Secretary for War, as well as Allied Europe Supreme Commander, General Dwight Eisenhower, who had been strongly opposed to the imposition of AMGOT in North Africa. Eisenhower, unlike Roosevelt, wanted to cooperate with Charles de Gaulle, and he secured a last-minute promise from Roosevelt on the eve of D-Day that the Allied officers would not act as military governors and would instead cooperate with the local authorities as the Allied forces liberated French territory. De Gaulle would, however, later claim in his memoirs that he blocked AMGOT.\n\nThe AMGOT would have been implemented in France after its liberation if not for the Free French establishing control of the country per the Provisional Government of the French Republic in the name of the Free French Forces and the united French Resistance (FFI) following the liberation of Paris by the French themselves instead of the Allies, in August 1944.\n\nGermany's control was notably divided amongst the powers of the Soviet Union, the United States, the United Kingdom, and France.\n\nAfter Operation Husky, with the Allied Invasion of Sicily on July 10, 1943, the Allied Military Government was established with Staff Officer Francis Rodd, 2nd Baron Rennell and Civil Affairs officer colonel Charles Poletti, until February 1944.\n\nThe Allied Military Government of Zone A of the Free Territory of Trieste was a follow-on from the military government of occupied Italy. It was established upon implementation of the Treaty of Peace with Italy, 15 September 1947, which created the free territory divided into two zones. Zone A was administered by the United States and the United Kingdom. Zone B was administered by Yugoslavia. Military government ended when the free territory was divided between Italy and Yugoslavia, November 1954, under the provisions of the London Memorandum, a memorandum of understanding among the United States, United Kingdom, Italy and Yugoslavia.\n\n\nTrieste Revenue stamps listed in \"Italy Revenues\" by J.Barefoot Ltd, York, 2013, .\n\n"}
{"id": "2351240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2351240", "title": "Boys are stupid, throw rocks at them! controversy", "text": "Boys are stupid, throw rocks at them! controversy\n\n\"Boys are stupid, throw rocks at them!\" is a slogan on a T-shirt by Florida clothing company David and Goliath which in 2003 became the subject of a campaign by radio-host and fathers' rights activist Glenn Sacks on the grounds of misandry and the incitement of violence against children. This raised national attention and led to the removal of the shirts from several thousand retail outlets. Sacks' campaign was criticized as focusing on a trivial issue.\n\nThe publicity of the campaign increased sales of the shirt, which features the slogan printed next to a cartoon image of a boy running away from five stones flying in his direction, which was later used as the cover of a book which was also titled \"Boys are stupid, throw rocks at them!\".\n\nThe T-shirt was designed by company founder Todd Goldman, who started David and Goliath in 1999 with \"Boys are Smelly\" T-shirts. It now features clothes with a variety of slogans, such as \"Boys tell lies, poke them in the eyes!\" or \"The stupid factory, where boys are made\". \"Boys are stupid ...\" has evolved into a successful object for merchandise, which includes all types of clothes, mugs, key chains, posters and other items. In 2005, Goldman published a book with the same title.\n\nLos Angeles based radio host and father's rights activist Glenn Sacks initiated a campaign against the T-shirts in 2003. He claimed that they were part of a general societal mood that stigmatizes and victimizes boys. The company says that the shirts are not meant to encourage violence. According to Goldman, the controversy boosted sales of the T-shirt.\n\nHelen Grieco, executive director of the National Organization for Women stated \"No, I don't think the shirts are cute. But I spend every day on life-and-death issues and don't have time for T-shirt campaigns.\" She went on to state that while she believed the US needed a men's rights movement, she didn't think Sacks should be the one doing it, calling him a \"women-bashing, backlash shock-jock radio host.\" Others, like \"San Francisco Chronicle\" columnist Jane Ganahl ridiculed Sacks' efforts in an article saying, \"shut up and get a life, already\".\n\nGlenn Sacks responded to criticism of the campaign, asserting that the criticism was dismissive of the feelings of boys and that the idea that boys should laugh at the joke at their expense creates a \"double bind\" for boys.\n\nIn Canada, the complaints by the Canadian Children's Rights Council resulted in numerous major retail chain stores stopping their sales of the merchandise. Other retailers who pulled the merchandise included Bon-Macy’s, Tilly's, and Claire’s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1358695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1358695", "title": "Caprotinia", "text": "Caprotinia\n\nThe Caprotinia, or feasts of Juno Caprotina, were ancient Roman festivals which were celebrated on July 7, in favour of the female slaves. During this solemnity they ran about, beating themselves with their fists and with rods. None but women assisted in the sacrifices offered at this feast.\n\nPlutarch's \"Life of Numa\" and \"Life of Camillus\" offer two possible origins for this feast, or the famous \"Nonae Caprotinae\" or \"Poplifugium\". Firstly—and, in Plutarch's opinion, most likely—it commemorates the mysterious disappearance of Romulus during a violent thunderstorm that interrupted an assembly in the \"Palus Caprae\" (\"Goats' Marsh\"). Secondly, it commemorates a Roman victory by Camillus over the Latins; according to a minor tradition, a Roman serving maid or slave dressed as a noblewomen and surrendered herself to the Latins as hostage; that night, she climbed a wild fig-tree (\"caprificus\", literally \"goat-fig\") and gave the Romans a torchlight signal to attack.\n"}
{"id": "33508629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33508629", "title": "Children's party", "text": "Children's party\n\nA children's party or kids' party is a party for children such as a birthday party or tea party. Since medieval times, children have dressed specially for such occasions.\n\nChildren's birthday parties originated in Germany as \"kinderfeste\".\n\nBusinesses that plan or arrange children's parties have become more common during the 2010s.\n"}
{"id": "205662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205662", "title": "Counterfeit", "text": "Counterfeit\n\nTo counterfeit means to imitate something. Counterfeit products are fakes or unauthorized replicas of the real product. Counterfeit products are often produced with the intent to take advantage of the superior value of the imitated product. The word \"counterfeit\" frequently describes both the forgeries of currency and documents, as well as the imitations of items such as clothing, handbags, shoes, pharmaceuticals, aviation and automobile parts, watches, electronics (both parts and finished products), software, works of art, toys, and movies. \n\nCounterfeit products tend to have fake company logos and brands (resulting in patent or trademark infringement in the case of goods), have a reputation for being lower quality (sometimes not working at all) and may even include toxic elements such as lead. This has resulted in the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people, due to automobile and aviation accidents, poisoning, or ceasing to take essential compounds (e.g., in the case a person takes non-working medicine).\n\nThe counterfeiting of money is usually attacked aggressively by governments worldwide. Paper money is the most popular product counterfeited.\n\nCounterfeit money is currency that is produced without the legal sanction of the state or government and in deliberate violation of that country's laws.\n\nThe United States Secret Service, mostly known for its guarding-of-officials task, was initially organized primarily to combat the counterfeiting of American money. Counterfeit government bonds are public debt instruments that are produced without legal sanction, with the intention of \"cashing them in\" for authentic currency or using them as collateral to secure legitimate loans or lines of credit.\n\nForgery is the process of making or adapting documents with the intention to deceive. It is a form of fraud, and is often a key technique in the execution of identity theft. Uttering and publishing is a term in United States law for the forgery of non-official documents, such as a trucking company's time and weight logs.\n\nQuestioned document examination is a scientific process for investigating many aspects of various documents, and is often used to examine the provenance and verity of a suspected forgery. Security printing is a printing industry specialty, focused on creating legal documents which are difficult to forge.\n\nThe spread of counterfeit goods (commonly called \"knock-offs\" or \"rip-offs\") has become global in recent years and the range of goods subject to infringement has increased significantly. Apparel and accessories accounted for over 50 percent of the counterfeit goods seized by U.S Customs and Border Control. According to the study of Counterfeiting Intelligence Bureau (CIB) of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), counterfeit goods make up 5 to 7% of World Trade; however, these figures cannot be substantiated due to the secretive nature of the industry. \n\nA report by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development indicates that up to US$200 Billion of international trade could have been in counterfeit and illegally copied goods in 2005. In November 2009, the OECD updated these estimates, concluding that the share of counterfeit and illegitimate goods in world trade had increased from 1.85% in 2000 to 1.95% in 2007. That represents an increase to US$250 billion worldwide.\nIn a detailed breakdown of the counterfeit goods industry, the total loss faced by countries around the world is $600 billion, with the United States facing the most economic impact.\nWhen calculating counterfeit products, current estimates place the global losses at $400 billion. On November 29, 2010, the Department of Homeland Security seized and shut down 82 websites as part of a U.S. crackdown of websites that sell counterfeit goods, and was timed to coincide with \"Cyber Monday,\" the start of the holiday online shopping season.\nSome see the rise in counterfeiting of goods as being related to globalisation. As more and more companies, in an effort to increase profits, move manufacturing to the cheaper labour markets of the third world, areas with weaker labour laws or environmental regulations, they give the means of production to foreign workers. These new managers of production have little or no loyalty to the original corporation. They see that profits are being made by the global brand for doing little (other than advertising) and see the possibilities of removing the middle men (i.e. the parent corporation) and marketing directly to the consumer. This can result in counterfeit products being virtually indistinguishable from original products, as they are being produced in the same company, and in damage to the parent corporation due to copyright infringement.\n\nCertain consumer goods, especially very expensive or desirable brands or those that are easy to reproduce cheaply, have become frequent and common targets of counterfeiting. The counterfeiters either attempt to deceive the consumer into thinking they are purchasing a legitimate item, or convince the consumer that they could deceive others with the imitation. An item which makes no attempt to deceive, such as a copy of a DVD with missing or different cover art or a book without a cover, is often called a \"bootleg\" or a \"pirated copy\" instead.\n\nCounterfeiting has also been issued to \"cash in\" on the ever growing record collecting market. One major example is bootleggers have cloned copies of Elvis Presley's early singles for Sun Records since original copies starting changing hands amongst music fans for hundreds (and then, thousands) of US$. Some who produce these even do so with the wrong material. For example the song \"Heartbreak Hotel\" which was never released on Sun, as by the time Elvis' first heard it, prior to ever recording it, he had moved from Sun to RCA Victor. Rare releases by The Beatles such as their album with the butcher cover, fan-club only released Christmas records and early demonstration discs issued by EMI are also examples of product reproduced by counterfeiters due to their high value to collectors.\nMany counterfeit goods are produced and manufactured in China, making it the counterfeit capital of the world. In fact, the counterfeiting industry accounts for 8% of China's GDP. Counterfeit goods are produced and manufactured in Russia, North Korea, Taiwan, Bulgaria, and Greece as well. Greece is responsible for 2% of counterfeit goods seized by the EU. Some counterfeits are produced in the same factory that produces the original, authentic product, using inferior materials. \n\nAnother trend in counterfeiting, especially seen in consumer electronics, is the manufacture of entirely new products using poor quality materials or, more often, incorporating desirable features not present in a brand's authentic product line and then including prominent and fake brand names and logotypes to profit from brand recognition or brand image. An example would be imitation \"Nokia\" and \"iPhone\" cellular phones with features like dual SIM slots or analog TV, which are unavailable in authentic originals, or cosmetically-identical clones of high-end smartphones such as those from Hong Kong-based Goophone, using off the shelf system-on-chips from MediaTek and the Android operating system, often with user interfaces made to resemble the devices they imitate. Another example would be imitation \"iPod\" MP3 players whose batteries are removable and replaceable, whereas in authentic originals the batteries are permanently installed. \n\nIn the United States, a federal crackdown on counterfeit imports is driving an increase in domestic output of fake merchandise, according to investigators and industry executives. Raids carried out in New York City resulted in the seizure of an estimated $200 Million in counterfeit apparel, bearing the logos of brands such as \"The North Face,\" \"Polo,\" \"Izod Lacoste,\" \"Rocawear,\" \"Seven for all Mankind,\" and \"Fubu.\" One of the largest seizures was a joint operation in Arizona, Texas and California that seized seventy-seven containers of fake \"Nike Air Jordan\" shoes and a container of \"Abercrombie & Fitch\" clothing, valued at $69.5 million. Another current method of attacking counterfeits is at the retail level. Fendi sued the Sam's Club division of Walmart for selling fake \"Fendi\" bags and leather goods in five states. Sam's Club agreed to pay Fendi a confidential amount to settle the dispute and dismiss the action. In the case \"Tiffany v. eBay\", Tiffany & Co. sued auction site eBay for allowing the sale of counterfeit items, but lost on all claims. Gucci filed suit against thirty websites in the United States and is currently in the process of suing one hundred more.\n\nA number of companies involved in the development of anti-counterfeiting and brand protection solutions have come together to form special industry-wide and global organisations dedicated to combating the so-called \"brand pirates\" such as the International Hologram Manufacturers Association. Other companies and organisations have established web-based communities that provide a framework for crowd-sourced solutions to counterfeiting. One such free community, Collectors Proof enables manufacturers and users alike to associate unique identification numbers to virtually any item so that each new owner can update its chain of custody. Because quality counterfeit items are often difficult to discern from authentic goods, this approach enables potential customers to access an item's current and previous ownersits provenanceprior to purchase.\n\nTo combat counterfeiting, companies may have the various parts of an item manufactured in independent factories and then limit the supply of certain distinguishing parts to the factory that performs the final assembly to the exact number required for the number of items to be assembled (or as near to that number as is practicable) or may require the factory to account for every part used and to return any unused, faulty or damaged parts. To help distinguish the originals from the counterfeits, the copyright holder may also employ the use of serial numbers or holograms etc., which may be attached to the product in another factory still.\n\nCounterfeit culture is the thriving markets surrounding fake streetwear. Most commonly, these markets originate out of areas where the inability to buy popular streetwear brands has fueled more sophisticated markets for counterfeit goods. These markets have spawned the emergence of a tribe of widely available copycat brands.\n\nIn countries like South Korea and Russia where trade sanctions have been imposed historically to monitor and prevent the circulation of popular brands have instead created a demand for readily available counterfeit alternatives. The economic standing of a country or region also contributed to the demand for these products as the average consumer can’t afford luxury prices but will gain the same social impact purchasing a knock-off that’s of almost indistinguishable quality to the original product. \n\nStreetwear is out of reach for many people, not just because of international sanctions and low wages, but because exclusivity is built into it business model. Social and cultural forces are driving the unique fashion scene. In particular, social media has a huge influence on over these markets giving people images of things they can’t own and further fueling the desire to obtains certain “hyped” items by any means accessible.\n\nDesigners have even begun to acknowledge the trend of counterfeit culture by referencing fake or knock-off goods in their designs. This brought counterfeit culture into the realm of mainstream culture and has essentially shifted global acceptance towards becoming more lenient of these products as an appropriate alternative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44718610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44718610", "title": "Delta Dawn (murder victim)", "text": "Delta Dawn (murder victim)\n\n\"Delta Dawn\" and \"Baby Jane\" are the names given to an unidentified child murder victim whose body was found in Moss Point, Mississippi in December 1982. In a suspected filicide, the child — aged approximately 18 months — was partially smothered before her body was thrown from the eastbound Interstate 10 bridge into the Escatawpa River, where she ultimately drowned. Her body was recovered between 36 and 48 hours after her death.\n\nThis unidentified decedent became known as both \"Delta Dawn\" and \"Baby Jane\" due to her gender, her age, and the fact her body was discovered at daybreak close to a delta of the Escatawpa River.\n\nAccording to numerous witnesses, in the early hours of December 3, 1982 a female toddler was seen in the area of Moss Point, Mississippi, in the company of a young adult female presumed to have been her mother and who had been carrying this toddler in her arms. These sightings had occurred on both Mississippi State Highway 63 and, later, the National Interstate 10, close to the state border of Alabama. The woman carrying this child in her arms had been wearing a blue plaid shirt and blue jeans, and was last seen walking west along Interstate 10, close to the truck scales at the Alabama-Mississippi border sometime between midnight and one o'clock in the morning of December 3. Reportedly, this woman had been in an acute state of distress, but had ardently refused any offers of help from passing vehicles. These eyewitness reports subsequently given to investigators would further be corroborated by accounts from a woman who had been monitoring CB radio conversations between truck drivers early in the morning of December 3, and who stated to investigators numerous truck drivers had been raising what she termed a \"boatload of Hell\" regarding an obviously distressed woman walking along Interstate 10 with a barefoot, coatless female toddler in her arms and who had repeatedly refused any offers of assistance from passing vehicles. It is believed that the toddler in this woman's company may have been the victim subsequently recovered from the river.\n\nWithin two days of these sightings, at approximately 7:00 a.m. on December 5, a truck driver called police to report having sighted the body of an adult female floating face-down close to a bridge spanning the Escatawpa River along Interstate 10. The woman had been clothed in a blue plaid shirt. This truck driver immediately reported his discovery to the Jackson County Sheriff's Office, and a sheriff's deputy immediately responded to the scene of the truck driver's sighting; finding no body floating in the general area of the river in which the body had been sighted, this deputy decided to continue the search, expanding the geographical search radius of the river as he did so. Shortly thereafter, he discovered the body of a small blonde haired child lying partially submerged and face up in the weeds close to the bridge. Authorities quickly determined the child had been thrown from the bridge into the general area where her body was subsequently found, and that this child's body was unlikely to have been that sighted by the truck driver, as the section of the Escatawpa River where her body was discovered had been heavily infested with weeds, thus making a sighting of any body in this section of the water very difficult for passing motorists.\n\nFollowing the discovery of the child's body, the general vicinity of the Escatawpa River where the truck driver had sighted the body of the adult female was dragged in the hopes of also retrieving her body, although these efforts would prove unsuccessful. These searches were conducted with the aid of helicopters and boats, although the body of the woman initially sighted within the Escatawpa River has never been found. However, if the body seen floating in the river on December 5 was not hers, she has never been located alive, or presented herself to authorities. \n\nAlthough the underwater search unit failed to locate the body of the adult woman, this search unit did locate the largely skeletal remains of an African-American male on December 8. This individual is believed to have been aged 18 to 22, and his body was located beneath the eastbound I-10 bridge approximately 60 yards from the scene of the earlier discovery of the child's body. This decedent also remains unidentified, and although investigators believe this individual had also been thrown over the I-10 bridge, this decedent had lain undiscovered for a minimum of six months, thus making his death extremely unlikely to be connected to the case.\nAn autopsy performed on the child's body revealed that someone had attempted to smother her before she had entered the river, although the child had still been alive when she had entered the water, having inhaled murky water from the river into her lungs, thus indicating she had ultimately died of drowning. The official cause of death would be certified as drowning due to her having inhaled water upon impacting the surface of the river. Investigators would also conclude she had been intentionally deposited into the river from the eastbound I-10 bridge, very likely having been thrown into the river by the woman seen carrying her two days prior to her discovery (with this woman possibly believing the child had died via the act of smothering). \n\nIn life, Delta Dawn had been a healthy toddler, with her age estimated to have been between the ages of one and two years old, most likely being between 18 months and two years of age. Twelve of her milk teeth had erupted at the time of her death, which influenced this age estimation. The girl was Caucasian, with curly strawberry-blond hair, and has been described as being markedly beautiful in appearance. Because the child's body had lain in the river for approximately 36 to 48 hours prior to her discovery, her eyes had clouded to such a degree that determining their precise color was very difficult, although it is believed they had been either blue or brown. Despite the elemental damage to the eyes, her face was described as being in a \"recognizable\" condition. She was around two feet six inches in height, weighed around 25 pounds and although no food was found in her stomach, she showed no signs of having been malnourished. The girl wore a pink and white Cradle Togs checkered dress, decorated with three flowers on its front, along with a diaper.\n\nThe funeral of this unidentified child (who would become known as both \"Delta Dawn\" and \"Baby Jane\" to both the public and the media) was primarily funded by a local deputy named Virgil Moore who, along with his wife, Mary Ann, initiated a fundraising and donations appeal via local businesses and funeral homes to ensure the child received a Christian funeral, with the wife of Deputy Moore being the individual who subsequently coined the one of the two names by which the child is now colloquially known, having been aghast at the thought of the child being simply buried as a Jane Doe.\n\nDelta Dawn was laid to rest in the Jackson County Cemetery following an hourlong service conducted at the Bethel Assembly Church in Pascagoula. This service was conducted within weeks of the child's discovery, after all efforts to locate any relatives had proven fruitless. The service itself was attended by approximately 200 people, with four police officers serving as pallbearers. The primary means of paying for and conducting the child's funeral were donations by various local businesses and their employees, and Delta Dawn was buried beneath a flat granite marker with a ceramic vase. Her grave bears the inscriptions \"Baby Jane\" and \"Known only to God\".\n\nOn the 25th anniversary of the funeral of Delta Dawn, a memorial service in her honor was held at the Bethel Assembly Church. This memorial service was organized by two Alabama women named Marjorie Brinker and Lynn Reuss, who have both stated they cannot comprehend \"why someone would throw a baby into the river like that.\"\nExtensive searches have been conducted to find the body of the woman seen floating face-down within the Escatawpa River on December 5; equal efforts have been made to locate and/or identify the acutely distressed woman seen walking along Interstate 10 carrying a barefooted child in her arms on December 3, should the body sighted by the truck driver actually not have been hers. All efforts have proven fruitless. Several scenarios surrounding the death of Delta Dawn have been theorized, with the most common assertion being that the woman seen with the toddler was the child's mother, who had either accidentally or intentionally caused the child's death before subsequently committing suicide.\n\nFollowing the discovery of Delta Dawn's body, newspapers throughout the country published stories of the discovery of the child's body, and the sightings on Interstate 10 two days previously. These stories often featured contemporary forensic facial reconstructions of the how the child had most likely appeared in life. All initial efforts proved unsuccessful with ascertaining the identity of Delta Dawn via this technique. A contemporary report of a woman who informed sheriff's deputies that she had \"given away\" her child to a group of men was originally connected to the case by the investigating officers, although these investigators rapidly determined that the subject requesting assistance had a male child, thus enabling investigators to quickly determine this report as being impertinent to this case.\n\nIn 2009, the body of Delta Dawn was exhumed in order that investigators could obtain a DNA sample from her body which could be entered into both the National Missing and Unidentified Persons System and the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children databases for comparison with nationwide unsolved murders and missing person reports. To date, no DNA match with Delta Dawn or the individual believed to have been her mother (should the two have been related) has been obtained.\n\nWith advances in technology, in the years since the discovery of Delta Dawn's body, the child has undergone several forensic facial reconstructions in ongoing efforts to identify her body. The National Center for Missing & Exploited Children has also released two illustrations depicting potential likenesses as to how Delta Dawn may have physically appeared in life; other forensic artists have also produced their own renderings in an effort to discover her identity.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8469887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8469887", "title": "Destiny Fulfilled... and Lovin' It", "text": "Destiny Fulfilled... and Lovin' It\n\nDestiny Fulfilled... and Lovin' It was the final concert tour by American female R&B trio Destiny's Child, that visited Asia, Australia and North America. The U.S. leg of the tour grossed approximately $70.8 million according to \"Billboard\" magazine and was the highest-grossing tour for either a pop or R&B band since TLC's FanMail Tour, where Destiny's Child performed as an opening act in 1999.\n\nThe tour kicked off in Hiroshima, Japan on April 9, 2005 and ended Vancouver, Canada on September 10.\n\nDestiny's Child embarked on the world tour sponsored by McDonald's Corporation, and performed hits such as \"No, No, No\", \"Survivor\", \"Say My Name\", \"Independent Women\" and \"Lose My Breath\". In addition to renditions of the group's recorded material, they also performed songs from each singer's solo careers, most notably numbers from Beyoncé's debut album, \"Dangerously in Love\". The stage design afforded 360 degree viewing within the typical arena show venue. Several interludes by the show's dancers allowed for the expected costume changes; those costumes, often glittering gowns, were designed by Tina Knowles, Beyoncé's mother, and manufactured by House of Deréon. A special set of outfits were designed as a tribute to the Broadway musical Dreamgirls, hinting at the play's \"One Night Only (Disco)\" scene where Deena Jones & the Dreams wear the same color pants suits.\n\nDuring the last stop of their European tour in Barcelona on June 11, 2005, Kelly Rowland suddenly announced: \"This is the last time you would see us on stage as Destiny's Child\".\n\nThe announcement was surprising to many, as the trio had downplayed rumors of a split in the wake of Knowles' success, although prior plans had called for the members to focus on solo projects at the end of the tour.\n\nA performance from the tour was filmed in Atlanta at Philips Arena on July 15, 2005, and the resulting DVD \"Destiny's Child Live in Atlanta\" was released on March 28, 2006. RIAA subsequently certified the DVD as Platinum. The concert was also aired in the USA on BET as a television special, on Channel 4 in the UK and on the Dutch television channel AT5.\n\n\nSource:\n\n\nCreative Direction \n\nChoreographers \n\nProduction Manager\n\nWardrobe and Stylist\n\nTour Manager\n\nBand\n\nDancers\n\nSecurity\n\nTour Promoters\n\nTour sponsors\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1707323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1707323", "title": "Drotrecogin alfa", "text": "Drotrecogin alfa\n\nDrotrecogin alfa (activated) (Xigris, marketed by Eli Lilly and Company) is a recombinant form of human activated protein C that has anti-thrombotic, anti-inflammatory, and profibrinolytic properties. Drotrecogin alpha (activated) belongs to the class of serine proteases. Drotrecogin alfa has not been found to improve outcomes in people with severe sepsis. The manufacturer's aggressive strategies in marketing its use in severe sepsis have been criticized. On October 25, 2011, Eli Lilly & Co. withdrew Xigris from the market after a major study showed no efficacy for the treatment of sepsis.\n\nDrotrecogin alfa does not improve mortality in severe sepsis or septic shock but does increase bleeding risks. Therefore, a 2011 Cochrane review recommended that clinicians and policymakers not recommend its use.\n\nThe following patients should not receive drotrecogin:\n\nThe following patients are at an increased risk for bleeding complications due to drotrecogin-alpha therapy, and a careful risk/benefit assessment should be made prior to initiating therapy.\n\nAlthough patients at high risk of bleeding were excluded from the phase III clinical study (PROWESS), 25% of patients treated with drotrecogin and 18% of those receiving placebo experienced at least one bleeding event (principally ecchymoses or GI bleeding) during the 28-day study period. During treatment serious bleeding events (e.g., intracranial hemorrhage, any life-threatening bleeding event, any bleeding event requiring administration of at least 3 units of packed red blood cells daily for 2 consecutive days) occurred in 2.4% of patients treated with drotrecogin and in 1% of those receiving placebo. No significant differences between geriatric patients and younger patients regarding bleeding events in the drotrecogin group have been found.\n\nNo other side-effects have been observed so far.\n\nIn the meantime a second study encompassing approximately 2,000 adult patients has been completed and the results showed a comparable side-effect profile.\n\nDrug interactions with drotrecogin have not been systematically studied in patients with severe sepsis. Caution should be exercised when using other drugs that affect hemostasis concomitantly with drotrecogin (e.g. aspirin, warfarin, clopidogrel). However, the use of low dose prophylactic Heparin did not affect safety when given concurrently with drotrecogin.\n\nThe specific mechanisms by which drotrecogin exerts its effect on survival in patients with severe sepsis is not completely understood. In vitro data suggest that activated protein C exerts an antithrombotic effect by inhibiting factors Va and VIIIa, and that it has indirect profibrinolytic activity by inhibiting plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1). In vitro data also suggest that activated protein C may exert an anti-inflammatory effect by inhibiting tumor necrosis factor production, by blocking leukocyte adhesion to selectins, and by limiting the thrombin-induced inflammatory responses within the microvascular endothelium.\n\nIf the dosage guidelines are followed, the drug reaches peak plasma levels after two hours and is completely cleared from plasma two hours after termination of the infusion period. Endogenous plasma protease inhibitors deactivate drotrecogin. Therefore, no dose adjustment is needed in elderly patients, or in patients with renal or hepatic dysfunction.\n\nXigris is the current brand name of activated drotrecogin alfa, manufactured by Eli Lilly. The drug is sold in vials containing either 5 mg or 20 mg, respectively. The United States' Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the drug in 2001 as was the case with the drug authorities in many other countries.\n\nIn 2001, Eli Lilly's chairman, president and CEO, Sidney Taurel, told shareholders: \"No medicine better symbolizes our mission than Xigris,\" calling it \"one of our industry's genuine breakthroughs.\"\n\nXigris was designed to fight sepsis, a condition that kills more than 200,000 Americans annually. It was the only approved drug for sepsis, and it costs $8,000 to treat a single patient. Lilly hoped it would be a blockbuster, with sales of at least a billion dollars a year. But after five years on the market, sales were only $200 million.\n\nEli Lilly used the Belsito & Company PR firm in a marketing campaign to promote Xigris, its drug for treatment of sepsis. A report in the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) accused the company of initiating false reports of a shortage of the drug to boost sales. Belsito and Company spread the word that the drug was being \"rationed\" and physicians were being 'systematically forced' to decide who would live and who would die. As part of this effort, Lilly provided a group of physicians and bioethicists with a $1.8 million grant to form the Values, Ethics, and Rationing in Critical Care (VERICC) Task Force, purportedly to address ethical issues raised by rationing in the intensive care unit. Finally, the Surviving Sepsis Campaign was established, in theory to raise awareness of severe sepsis and generate momentum toward the development of treatment guidelines.\n\nThis marketing campaign was especially troublesome because Xigris has been linked to increased risk of serious bleeding in patients who used it as well as other concerns. \"Controversy surrounds both the drug study itself and the FDA approval,\" wrote NEJM editor-at-large Richard P. Wenzel, MD in 2002. The FDA approved the drug despite the advisory committee's split vote (10 to 10) due to concerns about the validity of the claimed efficacy and safety findings on the basis of a single trial.\n\nEli Lilly spokeswoman Judy Kay Moore insisted that the company did not mastermind the ethics task force or steer the guideline-writing process. It was only a coincidence, Moore says, that the ethics task force and the Surviving Sepsis Campaign used the same P.R. firm, Belsito and Company.\n\nIn the USA drotrecogin was FDA approved for the reduction of mortality in adult patients with severe sepsis (sepsis associated with acute organ dysfunction) who have a high risk of death (as determined by APACHE II scores of 25 or greater). Evidence however is not sufficiently strong for its use to become standard of care.\n\nBecause of the risk of severe bleeding, associated with the use of Xigris, the following guidelines have been additionally proposed, but are not FDA requirements:\n\nOn October 25, 2011, Eli Lilly and Company announced a worldwide voluntary market withdrawal of Xigris [drotrecogin alfa (activated)]. In a recent study, Xigris failed to show a survival benefit for patients with severe sepsis and septic shock.\n\nThe exact mechanism for this protein is currently not known, but efforts continue to isolate activated protein C mutants that lack anticoagulant properties for potential therapeutic use.\n\n"}
{"id": "3539360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3539360", "title": "E-Bow the Letter", "text": "E-Bow the Letter\n\n\"E-Bow the Letter\" is the first single from R.E.M.'s tenth studio album \"New Adventures in Hi-Fi\". It was released in August 1996 just weeks before the album's release. During the same month, R.E.M. signed its then record-breaking five-album contract with Warner Bros. Records. Although it peaked at number four on the UK Singles Chart, the highest any R.E.M. song charted in the UK until \"The Great Beyond\" in 2000, the song fared less well in the United States, reaching only number 49 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. It became R.E.M.'s lowest charting lead single since \"Fall on Me\" released from \"Lifes Rich Pageant\" in 1986, when the band was on a smaller record label, I.R.S. Records.\n\nThe song features American singer-songwriter and \"Godmother of Punk\" Patti Smith performing backing vocals. Smith was cited as a major influence by band members Michael Stipe and Peter Buck and also provided backing vocals for \"Blue\" the closing track on the band's final studio album \"Collapse into Now\".\n\nThe song's title refers to the EBow, an electromagnetic field-generating device that induces sustained vibration in an electric guitar string (creating a violin-like effect), and to a \"letter never sent\" by Michael Stipe. Guitarist Peter Buck can be seen using an EBow in the video for the song at approximately 1:27 to 1:30. R.E.M. has also played the song live with artists including Thom Yorke singing Patti Smith's vocal part. The song is about Stipe's friend, the actor and musician River Phoenix.\n\n\"E-Bow the Letter\" was ranked number 21 on \"NME\" magazine's list of the \"Singles of the Year\". In 2003, the song was placed on R.E.M.'s compilation \"\". Pitchfork Media founder and owner Ryan Schreiber described it on the website as \"possibly one of the greatest songs ever written.\"\n\nAll songs were written by Bill Berry, Peter Buck, Mike Mills and Michael Stipe, except where noted.\n\n7\", Cassette and CD single\n\n12\" and CD Maxi single\n\nR.E.M.\n\nAdditional personnel\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48597688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48597688", "title": "EBM Dark Souls", "text": "EBM Dark Souls\n\nDark EBM Souls is an annual small international industrial festival held in Bratislava, Slovakia in February 2015 with successors in 2016, 2017 and 2018.\n\nDark EBM Souls is mainly focused on the genres Electro Industrial and Dark Ambient.\n\nThe v1 edition was hosted in Bratislava as a one-day event 28.02.15 with the lineup:\nISH,\nTerminal State,\nJihad,\nKifoth,\nMC1R and\n\nThe v2 edition was a 2-day event in Bratislava 26.02.16 - 27.02.16 with the lineup:\nVomito Negro,\nThe Opposer Divine,\ntri-state,\nkFactor,\nkleqq,\nISH,\nFjordwalker,\nKifoth and\nJihad .\n\nThe v3 edition was a one day event in Bratislava 11.02.17 with the lineup:\nFrontier Guards,\n2nd Face,\nAmnistia,\nGaping Chasm,\nHaujobb and Samhain\n\nThe fourth edition of Dark EBM souls was a one night event 10 March 2018 in Bratislava with the lineup: \nDive, \nPlacebo Effect,\n, Last Influence of Brain, Proleturan and Full contact 69.\n\nThe v5 edition is planned to be one night event 23.3.19. with the lineup\nArchitect,\nAmorphous,\nCardinal Noire , \nEcplipsed, \nStatic Charge Disease. \n\nThe artist Jihad released a live album from the concert of the first festival edition of 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "904825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=904825", "title": "Electrolyte imbalance", "text": "Electrolyte imbalance\n\nElectrolyte imbalance is an abnormality in the concentration of electrolytes in the body. Electrolytes play a vital role in maintaining homeostasis within the body. They help to regulate heart and neurological function, fluid balance, oxygen delivery, acid–base balance and much more. Electrolyte imbalances can develop by the following mechanisms: excessive ingestion; diminished elimination of an electrolyte; diminished ingestion or excessive elimination of an electrolyte.\n\nThe most serious electrolyte disturbances involve abnormalities in the levels of sodium, potassium or calcium. Other electrolyte imbalances are less common, and often occur in conjunction with major electrolyte changes. Chronic laxative abuse or severe diarrhea or vomiting (gastroenteritis) can lead to electrolyte disturbances along with dehydration. People suffering from bulimia or anorexia nervosa are at especially high risk for an electrolyte imbalance.\n\nElectrolytes are important, because they are what cells (especially nerve, heart and muscle cells) use to maintain voltages across their cell membranes and to carry electrical impulses (nerve impulses, muscle contractions) across themselves and to other cells. Kidneys work to keep the electrolyte concentrations in blood constant despite changes in the body. For example, during heavy exercise, electrolytes are lost in sweat, particularly in the form of sodium and potassium. These electrolytes must be replaced to keep the electrolyte concentrations of the body fluids constant.\n\n"}
{"id": "23913127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23913127", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest 2013", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest 2013\n\nThe Eurovision Song Contest 2013 was the 58th edition of the annual Eurovision Song Contest. It took place in Malmö, Sweden, following Loreen's win at the 2012 contest in Baku, Azerbaijan with the song \"Euphoria\". It was the fifth time that Sweden had hosted the contest, the last time being in 2000. Sveriges Television (SVT) chose Malmö Arena as the venue following the consideration of several venues in Sweden. The host for the contest was Petra Mede. Thirty-nine countries participated, including Armenia, which was last represented in 2011. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Portugal, Slovakia and Turkey announced their withdrawal from the 2013 Contest.\n\nThe design of the contest was built around the theme \"We Are One\" – highlighting equality and unity of all the participating countries alongside the cultural diversity and influence of each participant. Compared to many of the previous contests in the history of Eurovision, rather than focusing on promoting its own country, Sweden chose to lay focus on the artists and their respective countries. The postcards presented before every song which have often been used to show the host country's nature, culture and social life, were changed to show the typical everyday life of each individual artist in their home countries scattered around Europe.\n\nThe winner for 2013 was Denmark with the song \"Only Teardrops\" sung by Emmelie de Forest, which scored 281 points, beating Azerbaijan with a margin of 47 points. This makes it the second time that Denmark won on Swedish soil. Ukraine finished in third place and Norway in fourth, while Russia finished in fifth place. Out of the countries with the 'Big Five' status, only Italy managed to finish in the top ten, third in a row since its return, coming seventh with 126 points, exactly double of remaining ones' sum. The Netherlands finished ninth in their first participation in a final since 2004. 170 million viewers watched the semifinals and final of the 2013 edition. For the first time since 1985, no country of the former Yugoslav federation participated in the final of the Eurovision Song Contest.\n\nThis year was the first time adult Eurovision displayed the \"Parade of Nations\", which already existed in Junior Eurovision since 2004, an idea introduced by Sweden to become a new Eurovision tradition. The concept sees all countries performing in the Grand Final present themselves with their national flags before the contest begins. This year, the contestants entered the main stage by walking across a bridge over the audience. The idea was continued the following years by Denmark and Austria, the hosts of Eurovision 2014 and 2015 respectively.\n\nOn 8 July 2012, the Swedish broadcaster Sveriges Television (SVT) announced that Malmö Arena in Malmö would be the host venue for the 2013 Eurovision Song Contest. This was the fifth time after 1975, 1985, 1992 and 2000 that the competition was held in Sweden and the second time, after 1992, that it was held in Malmö. SVT had expressed the desire to host the contest at a slightly smaller venue than previous years, as well as smaller environment which is easier to dedicate and decorate for other celebrations and festivities of the event within the host city. This were factors in the choice of Malmö Arena as the host venue, and Malmö as Sweden's third-largest city by population after Stockholm and Gothenburg, the two other initial location-bidders.\n\nSVT made the advance decision to allocate Denmark at one semi-final and Norway at the other, in consideration for the number of Danish and Norwegian fans likely to come, with the arena being relatively small and so not suitable for accommodating both countries' fans at one semi-final event. Øresund bridge was eventually also used as the main artistic medium for the theme of the contest, as an expression of binding cultures.\n\nOn the night of the final for the 2012 Contest, the chief executive of SVT, Eva Hamilton, stated to the Swedish media that various venues in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö were being considered for hosting the 2013 Contest. One alternative put forward in the \"Expressen\", was to hold the competition at three different venues – the semi-finals in Gothenburg and Malmö, and the final in Stockholm. This proposal was dismissed as unfeasible by SVT, which declared that the contest would be hosted in only one city.\n\nOn 20 June 2012, it was announced that Gothenburg had withdrawn from the bidding process due to the city being the host of the Göteborg Horse Show in late April 2013. There were also concerns about the availability of hotel rooms due to a variety of other events taking place in the same time frame as the Eurovision Song Contest. The executive producer for the 2013 Contest, Martin Österdahl, told Swedish press that he did not like the decisions made by previous hosts to hold the contest in larger arenas, stating that he and SVT wanted the 2013 Contest to be \"more close and personal\". SVT also claimed that the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) wanted the 2013 Contest to be \"smaller\" due to the escalating costs of previous contests.\n\nThe following candidate cities had provisionally reserved venues and hotel rooms, as part of their bids to host the 2013 Contest. On 8 July 2012, Malmö Arena was confirmed as the host venue for the contest. Malmö Arena is Sweden's fourth-largest indoor arena, after Friends Arena, Tele2 Arena and Ericsson Globe, all located in Stockholm.\n\nKey\n\nThe combination of televoting and jury voting results underwent changes that were detailed in the official rules for the 2013 contest. Each member of a respective nation's jury was required to rank every song, except that of their own country. The voting results from each member of a particular nation's jury were combined to produce an overall ranking from first to last place. Likewise, the televoting results were also interpreted as a full ranking, taking into account the full televoting result rather than just the top ten. The combination of the jury's full ranking and the televote's full ranking produced an overall ranking of all competing entries. The song which scored the highest overall rank received 12 points, while the tenth-best ranked song received 1-point. It was announced in the official Media Handbook that an official app would also be available for voters to vote via during the contest.\n\nOfficial sponsors of the broadcast were the main Swedish-Finnish telecommunication company TeliaSonera, and the German cosmetics company Schwarzkopf. The competition sponsors were the makeup company IsaDora cosmetics, the supermarket ICA and Tetra Pak.\n\nThe singer and actress Sarah Dawn Finer also appeared in both semifinals and the final in sketches as the comic character Lynda Woodruff. \"Lynda\" presented the votes for Sweden at the previous contest in Baku. Finer also appeared in the final as herself performing the ABBA song \"The Winner Takes It All\" before the results were announced. The footballer Zlatan Ibrahimović was revealed on 28 April to be part of the opening segment of the Eurovision final, in a pre-recorded message welcoming viewers to his home city of Malmö. The 2011 Swedish entrant Eric Saade was the host of the green room during the final.\n\nThe draw that determined the semi-final allocation was held on 17 January 2013 at the Malmö City Hall. A draw at the EBU headquarters determined that, due to their geographical proximity with Malmö, Denmark would perform in the first semi-final, while Norway would perform in the second semi-final. This provided a maximum availability of tickets for visitors from both countries. The EBU also allocated Israel to the second semi-final after a request from the delegation in order to avoid complications with a national holiday coinciding with the date of the first semifinal. The remaining participating countries, excluding the automatic finalists (France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom), were split into five pots, based on voting patterns from the previous nine years. From these pots, 15 (in addition to Denmark) were allocated to compete in the first semi-final on 14 May 2013 and 15 (in addition to Norway and Israel) were allocated to compete in the second semi-final on 16 May 2013.\n\nThe pots were calculated by the televoting partner Digame and were as follows:\n\nUnlike previous years, the running order was not decided by the drawing of lots, but instead by the producers, with the aim of making the shows more exciting and ensuring that all contestants had a chance to stand out, preventing entries that are too similar cancelling each other out. The decision elicited mixed reactions from both fans of the contest and participating broadcasters.\n\nThe running order for the semi-finals was released on 28 March 2013. The running order for the final was determined on 17 May 2013. An additional allocation draw occurred for the final with each finalist nation drawing to perform either in the first or second half of the final. The allocation draw for qualifying countries from the semi-finals occurred during the semi-final winners' press conferences following each semi-final, while the allocation draw for the Big Five countries (France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom) occurred during their first individual press conferences on 15 May 2013. As the host country, the running order position for Sweden in the final was exclusively determined by a draw during the heads of delegation meeting on 18 March 2013. Sweden was drawn to perform 16th in the final.\n\nAs aforesaid, SVT wanted to make a good use of Malmo Arena's space to highlight the performances and increase the audience's visibility compared to previous years. SVT created a main stage and a smaller stage with higher-lower shifted floors, connected by a trail closely surrounded by a standing crowd from both sides of it and around the small stage. The main stage mobility was expressed as a main artistic medium at the opening act of the second semifinal and with highlighting Moldova's performance towards its finish, as a movable part beneath the singer's dress making her look gradually taller. The small stage mobility highlighted United Kingdom's performance towards its finish, lifted above the close-standing audience.\n\nOn 17 January 2013, at the semi-final allocation draw, the EBU revealed the graphic design, created by the Gothenburg-based branding agency Happy F&B for the 2013 contest, featuring a butterfly and slogan \"We Are One\". The butterfly featured an array of colours and textures, it also represented something small which can start powerful and big movements, a phenomenon known as the butterfly effect, indicating that a flap from one butterfly can start a hurricane.\n\nSVT confirmed on 19 February 2013 that the postcard films, used to introduce each song in the contest, would feature each artist in their respective country, to give the viewer a personal insight of each competing participant. This broke with recent tradition of the postcards often containing short segments of life within either the host city or country of the contest. They were produced by a company called Camp David. The on-air graphics were produced by Broken Doll, a production company. The animation of the many butterflies was done by the visual effects studio Swiss International. For example, Sweden's postcard features Robin and his friends at a funfair, having fun and meeting fans, while Ireland's postcard shows Ryan together with his family. In addition to the graphic design, there was a theme music for the contest entitled \"Wolverine\" composed by Adam Kafe, which was used in the intros and in-between commercial breaks.\nOn 11 July 2012, the show producer Christer Björkman advised the public not to buy tickets for the 2013 Contest that are currently in circulation and instead to wait for tickets to be released through official channels. Björkman said that official tickets had not yet been released, as necessary decisions over the stage and seating plans had not yet been made. Björkman also gave reassurance that accommodation would be available, as while the organizers had booked a large quantity of hotel rooms, some may be made available to the general public. On 21 November 2012, SVT officially announced the launch of ticket sales.\n\nOn 17 October 2012, the executive producer Martin Österdahl told the Swedish newspaper \"Dagens Nyheter\" that SVT plans for the 2013 Contest to have only one presenter for the entire contest, unlike previous years where there were up to three presenters per show. The last time there was just one presenter was in the 1995 Contest, in Dublin, Ireland, when the solo host was Mary Kennedy. Petra Mede was announced as the host for the 2013 contest on 28 January 2013.\n\nIt was announced on 21 December 2012 that 39 countries would compete in the Eurovision Song Contest 2013. Armenia, which was last represented in 2011, confirmed that it would be returning to the contest following a one-year break. Bosnia and Herzegovina and Portugal both withdrew from the 2013 Contest due to financial difficulties, whilst Slovakia and Turkey withdrew for different reasons.\n\nValentina Monetta represented San Marino for the second year in a row.\n\nElitsa Todorova and Stoyan Yankoulov returned as a duo, having previously represented Bulgaria in 2007.\n\nNevena Božović represented Serbia as part of Moje 3 and became the first contestant to compete in the Eurovision Song Contest after competing in the Junior Eurovision Song Contest, where she came third in 2007.\n\nBledar Sejko, who represented Albania, was the on-stage guitarist for the Albanian entry in 2011.\n\nGor Sujyan, who represented Armenia, was a backing vocalist for the Armenian entry in 2010.\n\nAliona Moon, who represented Moldova, was a backing vocalist for the Moldovan entry in 2012. In addition, Pasha Parfeny, the Moldovan representative of 2012, was the composer of the Moldovan entry and he actually accompanied her on the piano.\n\nEstonian backing vocalists Lauri Pihlap and Kaido Põldma were part of the group 2XL, which won the contest in 2001 together with Dave Benton and Tanel Padar.\n\nItaly, Sweden and the United Kingdom voted in this semi-final. The ten songs that are marked in orange qualified to the final.\nGermany, France and Spain voted in this semi-final. The ten songs that are marked in orange qualified to the final.\n\nFor the first time since , no country of the former participated in the final of the Eurovision Song Contest.\n\nBelow is a summary of the maximum 12 points each country awarded to another in the first semifinal:\n\nBelow is a summary of the maximum 12 points each country awarded to another in the second semifinal:\n\nBelow is a summary of the maximum 12 points each country awarded to another in the final:\n\nPrior to the finals, the Lithuanian media outlet 15 min released an undercover video suggesting that representatives from Azerbaijan were trying to bribe Lithuanians for votes in the tele/smsvoting. The video detailed the plan, which involved recruiting groups of 10 people each, and supplying them with SIM cards so they could vote multiple times during the voting window in the tele/smsvoting. It was also suggested that similar activity was taking place in a total of 15 countries including Latvia, Estonia, Belarus, Ukraine, Croatia and Switzerland. In response to the allegations, Executive Supervisor Jon Ola Sand reaffirmed the contest's commitment to a \"fair and transparent result.\" He stated that while Eurovision organisers were looking into the case, they \"[emphasised] that the intention of these individuals have not yet been clarified, and nor has a link been established between the individuals in the video and the Azeri delegation, the Azeri act or the Azeri EBU member Ictimai TV.\" He added that, since 1998, when he was first involved with the contest, \"every year there are rumors about irregularities in the voting\".\n\nThe EBU later confirmed an attempt of cheating in the contest, which was unsuccessful according to EBU as the EBU's system prevent fraud. According to the EBU, there is no evidence that any broadcaster has been involved in cheating. The rules were changed the next year to ensure that all broadcasters would be responsible for preventing fraud to their advantage or face a three-year suspension if fraud is revealed.\nHowever, in May 2015 a member of The Eurovision Song Contest Reference Group confirmed that Azerbaijan had cheated and that it was organized and very expensive.\n\nWhen Azerbaijan officially awarded no points to Dina Garipova of Russia, despite Garipova having reportedly come second in the country's phone poll, the Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev ordered an inquiry. The Russian Foreign Affairs Minister Sergei Lavrov claimed that the result had been falsified, and stated that \"this outrageous action will not remain without a response\". He promised a co-ordinated response with his Azerbaijani counterpart Elmar Mammadyarov. Simultaneously, the Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko claimed that his own country having received no points from Russia showed that the result must have been falsified. In June 2013, UK entrant Bonnie Tyler also claimed she overheard Russians complaining that Azerbaijan did not \"give us the ten points we paid for.\" Event supervisor Sietse Bakker said the claims were being investigated by the European Broadcasting Union as well.\n\nCascada's entry for Germany, \"Glorious\", was the subject of investigation by NDR following allegations that it was too similar to the 2012 winner, \"Euphoria\" by Loreen. NDR spokeswoman Iris Bents played down the allegations, stating that \"Every year there are attempts to create scandals around the Eurovision Song Contest and the participants.\" Following an independent audit, \"Glorious\" was found not to have plagiarized \"Euphoria\".\n\nAllegations of plagiarism against the winning Danish entry surfaced after Eric van Tijn, a notable Dutch music producer, mentioned the opening flute solo's similarity to \"I Surrender\", a 2002 song by the Dutch band K-Otic. However Eric van Tijn also stated that the flute solo was the only similarity between the two songs, thus calling it \"a storm in a teacup\".\n\nThe performance of the Finnish entry, \"Marry Me\", caused controversy in certain more socially conservative countries broadcasting the contest. The act featured the female singer Krista Siegfrids and one of her female backing singers kissing each other at the end, widely labelled in media as Eurovision's first \"lesbian kiss\". Siegfrids stated to the media that the act was done to encourage Finland to legalise same sex marriage. It was reported that Turkish and Greek media reacted negatively to Siegfrids' act. According to Gay Star News, the Turkish Eurovision broadcaster TRT, who had earlier withdrawn from competing in the contest for 2013, initially indicated that they would still broadcast the contest, but made a late decision not to do so. A number of media reports directly linked this decision to the kiss in the Finnish performance, although TRT stated the reason was low viewing figures for the contest. In China, it was completely removed from the pre-recorded broadcast due to the branch of television censorship in Mainland China.\n\nGreen room host Eric Saade referred to Petra Mede as a \"MILF\" on air during the break between the first and second halves of the voting, saying \"Back to you, Petra. #MILF\". When the broadcaster for the United Kingdom, BBC aired this, the sound was lost. It remains unknown whether this was just an accident, or if the BBC did it purposely. While the statement was supposedly scripted and SVT were aware of Saade's plan, some on social media were confused and offended by the comment.\n\nThe Marcel Bezençon Awards were first handed out during the Eurovision Song Contest 2002 in Tallinn, Estonia, honouring the best competing songs in the final. Founded by Christer Björkman (Sweden's representative in the 1992 Eurovision Song Contest and the current Head of Delegation for Sweden) and Richard Herrey (a member of the Herreys and the Eurovision Song Contest 1984 winner from Sweden), the awards are named after the creator of the annual competition, Marcel Bezençon. The awards are divided into three categories: Press Award, Artistic Award, and Composer Award.\n\nOrganisation Générale des Amateurs de l'Eurovision (more commonly known as OGAE) is an international organisation that was founded in 1984 in Savonlinna, Finland by Jari-Pekka Koikkalainen. The organisation consists of a network of 40 Eurovision Song Contest fan clubs across Europe and beyond, and is a non-governmental, non-political, and non-profitable company. In what has become an annual tradition for the OGAE fan clubs, a voting poll was opened allowing members from thirty-nine clubs to vote for their favourite songs of the 2013 contest. Below is the top five overall results, after all the votes had been cast.\n\nThe Barbara Dex Award has been annually awarded by the fan website House of Eurovision since 1997, and is a humorous award given to the worst dressed artist each year in the contest. It is named after the Belgian artist, Barbara Dex, who came last in the 1993 contest, in which she wore her own self designed (awful) dress.\n\nIt was reported by the EBU that the 2013 Contest was viewed by a worldwide television audience of a record breaking 170 million viewers.\n\nThe order in which each country announced their votes was determined in a draw following the jury results from final dress rehearsal. Similar to the 2012 contest an algorithm was used to generate as much suspense as possible. The spokespersons are shown alongside each country.\n\nMost countries sent commentators to Malmö or commentated from their own country, in order to add insight to the participants and, if necessary, the provision of voting information.\n\nThe commentators of the 39 participating countries are as follows:\nThe commentators of the non-participating countries are:\n\nEurovision Song Contest: Malmö 2013 was a compilation album put together by the European Broadcasting Union, and released by CMC International and Universal Music Group on 29 April 2013. The album features all the songs from the 2013 contest, and the digital version featured a bonus track, \"We Write the Story\", performed by ex-ABBA members, Björn Ulvaeus and Benny Andersson and the Swedish DJ and record producer, Avicii.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2345752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2345752", "title": "FIA GT Championship", "text": "FIA GT Championship\n\nThe FIA GT Championship was a sports car racing series organized by the Stéphane Ratel Organisation (SRO) at the behest of the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). The championship was mostly concentrated in Europe, but throughout the years has visited other continents including Asia and South America. At the end of 2009, the championship was replaced by the FIA GT1 World Championship, which morphed into the FIA GT Series for 2013.\n\nFIA currently defines several categories of GT cars with the top two specifications being GT1, or Grand Touring Cars, and GT2, or Series Grand Touring Cars. Each category has an annual driver champion, team champion, and manufacturer champion. Both categories are based on production road car designs, which must be produced in a minimum quantity of 25 examples to qualify. Both types may undergo significant modifications from the road car they are based on, but GT1 allows the use of exotic materials, better aerodynamics, larger brakes, wider tires and larger engine admission restrictors.\n\nFor the 2006 season, the FIA created a new class called GT3. GT3 cars are even closer to their production counterparts and are very simply racetrack prepared with the essentials (rollcages for safety, stripped interiors, race spec fuel tanks, etc.). All cars are performance balanced together via different weights, restrictors, tyre pressures etc. Prestigious motorsports makes such as Aston Martin, Chevrolet, Dodge, Lamborghini, Ascari and Maserati take part in FIA GT3 European Championship, a support series in some rounds of the main championship.\n\nThe FIA defines a GT car as \"an open or closed automobile which has no more than one door on each side and a minimum of two seats situated one on each side of the longitudinal centre line of the car; these two seats must be crossed by the same transversal plane. This car must be able to be used perfectly legally on the open road, and adapted for racing on circuits or closed courses.\"\n\nAll races in the FIA GT Championship were of endurance type, a full race distance lasting a minimum of 500 km or a maximum of three hours, with the exception of the Spa 24 Hours, Istanbul 2 hours and the exhibition Mil Milhas Brasileiras, which is run over a thousand miles (1609 km) and was planned to be a round of the championship in 2007. However, with the release of the 2007 FIA GT Championship schedule and rules, the FIA GT series becomes more of a sprint race event, with all races being a maximum of 2 hours with the exception of the Spa 24 Hours.\n\nIn 1997, due to increasing interest from manufacturers such as Mercedes-Benz, Porsche and Panoz, the FIA took over control of the expanding BPR Global GT Series, standardizing the race-length at 500 km instead of the usual four hours, liberalizing the technical regulations and leaving commercial exploitation in the hands of one of BPR's founders, Stéphane Ratel, who managed to get TV support from the pan-European TV station Eurosport. The new manufacturers built \"homologation specials\", racing-bred cars that took full advantage of the new rules, to build quasi-prototypes with very limited production runs of 25 cars. Chrysler, Lister and Marcos, not wanting to accompany the cost escalation, moved down to the GT2 class.\n\nThis proved to be the wisest move, as Mercedes completely dominated the new category and the other manufacturers pulled out after the end of the 1998 season. This left Chrysler's Viper to become the dominating car in the series, with the aging Porsche 993 GT2 and the Lister Storm providing a certain degree of competition.\n\nHowever, there was no lower inexpensive category for amateur drivers, and this led to the creation of the N-GT class in 2000. While the manufacturer field in the main class blossomed, the new category became swamped with Porsches and Ferraris, but lower running costs meant both classes enjoyed a balanced number of entries. In order to boost the championship's status, the SRO added the 24 Hours of Spa, previously a touring car race, to the calendar, where it became the series' most important race. The FIA also banned official manufacturer involvement, although certain teams had preferential treatment, with Porsche establishing a \"round robin\" system.\n\nAfter the end of the 2004 season, the FIA renamed the classes GT1 and GT2, and somewhat liberalized the GT1 regulations, allowing \"supercars\". While this was made to accommodate the Saleen S7, the biggest beneficiary was the purpose-built Maserati MC12, which lead the FIA to impose aerodynamic limitations on the Italian car. However, thanks to a weight penalty system, the fight for the championship is protected from more domineering cars. The level of competition remains tight, with gentlemen drivers managing to fight for the wins with professional drivers, some of them with Formula One experience.\n\nFollowing the 2009 season, the SRO announced that the FIA GT Championship's two categories, GT1 and GT2, would break off into separate series. The GT1 category became a world championship with rounds across the world. Cars which fit the GT1 class were eligible to race only in the FIA GT1 World Championship, as the ACO (organizer of the Le Mans 24 Hours) banned the cars from the event and all of its associated series. This meant that the category that once was eligible to race not only in the FIA GT, Le Mans Series and numerous national championships, was now only able to run in the new World Championship.\n\nThe GT1 cars continued to race in the World Championship in 2010 and 2011, but in 2012 the series switched exclusively to GT3 machinery due to shrinking car counts and the fact that most of the cars were ageing and no one was willing to build new models. This meant that the San Luis round of the 2011 season was the last ever time GT1 cars contested in international motorsport. The 2012 FIA GT1 season was contested with GT3 cars (yet retaining GT1 in series' title), but the series was finally cancelled after the year had concluded, being replaced by the FIA GT Series.\n\nIn 2010 the GT2 class was planned to have a separate championship having rounds held only in Europe, known as the FIA GT2 European Championship, but this series was cancelled. A lone GT2 event was held in 2010 at the Spa 24 Hours with the winners being awarded the FIA GT2 European Cup. This was the last ever time GT2-spec cars contested in SRO-sanctioned series.\n\nA new Blancpain Endurance Series was announced for 2011 which will re-establish some of the endurance format of the former FIA GT Championship, although this series will only utilize the FIA's GT3, GT4, and Supersports categories (GT2 was also planned to be in the series, but this was quickly folded as the interest level wasn't high). However, this series will not be an FIA-sanctioned championship. In 2012 the series abandoned the GT4 class and moved to GT3 exclusively.\n\nAs of the end of the 2009 season, Vitaphone Racing Team have won their fifth consecutive Teams' Championship in the GT1 category, while AF Corse earned their fourth consecutive title. Michael Bartels and Andrea Bertolini, both driving for Vitaphone, earned their third Drivers' Championship titles in the past four seasons. Richard Westbrook of Prospeed Competition won the GT2 Drivers' Championship. Chris Niarchos won the Citation Cup while Ferrari won the returning Manufacturers' Championship for the GT2 category.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9440651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9440651", "title": "Famine food", "text": "Famine food\n\nA famine food or poverty food is any inexpensive or readily available food used to nourish people in times of hunger and starvation, whether caused by extreme poverty such as during economic depression; by natural disasters, such as drought; or by war or genocide. \n\nFoods associated with famine need not be nutritionally deficient, or unsavoury. People who eat famine food in large quantity over a long period of time may become averse to it over time. In times of relative affluence, these foods may become the targets of social stigma and rejection.\n\nThe characterization of a foodstuff as \"famine\" or \"poverty\" food is primarily social. For example lobster and other crustaceans may be considered poverty food in some societies and luxury food in others depending on periods.\n\nA number of foodstuffs have been strongly associated with famine, war, or times of hardship throughout history:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11363", "title": "February 18", "text": "February 18\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1660255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1660255", "title": "Feminale", "text": "Feminale\n\nThe Feminale in Cologne is Germany's oldest feminist film festival. It has been held annually since 1984.\n\nThe Feminale was founded by students of film theory from the University of Cologne. Participating films must be made by females. They cover a broad spectrum of film genres, including experimental films and short films.\n\nThe festival aims to voice the concerns of women in the film industry. It provides female film makers with a platform for presenting their work to the public, and encourages presentation and discussion of changes in film aesthetics from a female point of view.\n\n"}
{"id": "967482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=967482", "title": "Gaochang", "text": "Gaochang\n\nGaochang (; Old Uyghur: قۇچۇ, \"Qocho\"), also called Karakhoja, Qara-hoja, Kara-Khoja, or Karahoja (قاراغوجا in Uyghur), is the site of a ruined, ancient oasis city on the northern rim of the inhospitable Taklamakan Desert in present-day Xinjiang, China. The site is also known in published reports as Chotscho, Khocho, Qocho, or Qočo. During the Yuan and Ming dynasties, Gaochang was referred to as \"Halahezhuo\" () (Qara-khoja) and Huozhou.\n\nThe ruins are located 30 km southeast of modern Turpan. The archaeological remains are just outside the modern town of Gaochang, at a place called\" Idykut-schari\" or \"Idikutschari\" by local residents. (see the work of Albert Grünwedel in the external links below). Artistic depictions of the city have been published by Albert von Le Coq. Gaochang is considered in some sources to have been a \"Chinese colony\", that is, it was located in a region otherwise occupied at the time by West Eurasian peoples.\n\nA busy trading center, it was a stopping point for merchant traders traveling on the Silk Road. It was destroyed in wars during the 14th century, and old palace ruins and inside and outside cities can still be seen today.\n\nNear Gaochang is another major archeological site: the Astana tombs.\n\nThe earliest people known to have lived in the area were the Gushi (or Jushi). The region around Turfan was described during the Han dynasty (206 BCE – 220 CE) as being occupied by the \"Jūshī\", while control over the region swayed between the Han-Chinese and the Xiongnu.\n\nGaochang was built in the 1st century BC, it was an important site along the Silk Road. It played a key role as a transportation hub in western China. The Jushi leaders invited the Chinese Han dynasty to take over and pledged their allegiance. In 327, the Gaochang Commandery (\"jùn\") was created by the Former Liang under the Han Chinese ruler Zhang Gui. The Chinese set up a military colony/garrison and organized the land into multiple divisions. Han Chinese colonists from the Hexi region and the central plains also settled in the region.\n\nAfter the fall of the Western Jin Dynasty, northern China split into multiple states, including the Central Asian oases. Gaochang was ruled by the Former Liang, Former Qin, and Northern Liang as part of a commandery. In 383 The General Lu Guang of the Former Qin seized control of the region.\n\nIn 439, remnants of the Northern Liang, led by Juqu Wuhui and Juqu Anzhou, fled to Gaochang where they would hold onto power until 460 when they were conquered by the Rouran Khaganate. Another version of this story says that in 439 a man named Ashina led 500 families from Gansu to Gaochang. In 460, the Rouran forced them to move to the Altai. They became the Ashina clan that formed the Gokturk Khaganate\n\nSix Dynasties Turfan tombs contained dumplings.\n\nFrom the mid-5th century until the mid-7th century, there existed four independent statelets in the narrow Turpan basin. These were controlled by the Kan clan, Zhang clan, Ma clan, and Qu clan.\n\nA the time of its conquest by the Rouran Khaganate, there were more than ten thousand Han Chinese households in Gaochang. The Rouran Khaganate, which was based in Mongolia, appointed a Han Chinese named Kan Bozhou to rule as King of Gaochang in 460, and it became a separate vassal kingdom of the Khaganate. Kan was dependent on Rouran backing. Yicheng and Shougui were the last two kings of the Chinese Kan family to rule Gaochang.\n\nAt this time the Gaoche () was rising to challenge power of the Rouran in the Tarim Basin. The Gaoche king Afuzhiluo () killed King Kan Shougui, who was the nephew of Kan Bozhou. and appointed a Han from Dunhuang, named Zhang Mengming (張孟明), as his own vassal King of Gaochang. Gaochang thus passed under Gaoche rule.\n\nLater, Zhang Mengming was killed in an uprising by the people of Gaochang and replaced by Ma Ru (). In 501, Ma Ru himself was overthrown and killed, and the people of Gaochang appointed Qu Jia () of Jincheng (in Gansu) as their king. Qu Jia hailed from the Zhong district of Jincheng commandery (金城, roughly corresponding to modern day Lanzhou, Gansu) Qu Jia at first pledged allegiance to the Rouran, but the Rouran khaghan was soon killed by the Gaoche, and he had to submit to Gaoche overlordship. During Qu rule, powerful families established marriage ties with each other and dominated the kingdom, they included the Zhang, Fan, Yin, Ma, Shi, and Xin families. Later, when the Göktürks emerged as the supreme power in the region, the Qu dynasty of Gaochang became vassals of the Göktürks.\n\nWhile the material civilization of Kucha to its west in this period remained chiefly Indo-Iranian in character, in Goachang it gradually merged into the Tang aesthetics. In 607 the ruler of Gaochang Qu Boya paid tribute to the Sui Dynasty, but his attempt at sinicization provoked a coup which overthrew the Qu ruler. The Qu family was restored six years later, and the successor Qu Wentai welcomed the Tang pilgrim Xuanzang with great enthusiasm in 629 AD.\n\nThe Kingdom of Gaochang was made out of Han Chinese colonists and ruled by the Han Chinese Qu family which originated from Gansu. Jincheng commandery 金城 (Lanzhou), district of Yuzhong 榆中 was the home of the Qu Jia. The Qu family was linked by marriage alliances to the Turks, with a Turk being the grandmother of King Qu Boya's.\n\nHowever, fearing Tang expansion, Qu Wentai later formed an alliance with the Western Turks and rebelled against Tang suzerainty. Emperor Taizong sent an army led by General Hou Junji against the kingdom in 640, and Qu Wentai apparently died of shock at news of the approaching army. Gaochang was annexed by the Chinese Tang dynasty and turned into a sub-prefecture of Xizhou (西州), and the seat of government of Anxi (安西). Before the Chinese conquered Gaochang, it was an impediment to Chinese access to Tarim and Transoxiania.\n\nUnder Tang rule, Gaochang was inhabited by Chinese, Sogdians, and Tocharians.\n\n7th or 8th century old dumplings and wontons were found in Turfan.\n\nTang dynasty became greatly weakened due to the An Lushan Rebellion, and in 755, the Chinese were forced to pull back their soldiers from the region. The area was first taken by the Tibetans, then finally by the Uyghurs in 803, who called the area Kocho (Qocho).\n\nAfter 840 it then became occupied by remnants of the Uyghur Khaganate fleeing Yenisei Kirghiz invasion of their land. The Uyghurs established the Kingdom of Qocho (Kara-Khoja) in 850. The inhabitants of Qocho practiced Buddhism, Manichaeism and Nestorian Christianity. The Uyghurs converted to Buddhism and sponsored building of temple caves in the nearby Bezeklik Thousand Buddha Caves where depictions of Uyghur sponsors may be seen. The Buddhist Uyghur kings, who called themselves idiquts, retained their nomadic lifestyle, residing in Qocho during the winter, but moved to the cooler Bishbalik near Urumchi in the summer.\n\nQocho later became a vassal state of the Kara-Khitans. However, In 1209, the idiqut Barchuq offered Genghis Khan the suzerainty of his kingdom, and went personally to Genghis Khan with a sizeable tribute when demanded in 1211. The Uyghurs thus went into the service of the Mongols, who later formed the Yuan Dynasty in China. The Uyghurs became bureaucrats (\"semu\") of the Mongol Empire and their Uyghur script was modified for Mongolian. As far south as Quanzhou, preponderance of Gaochang Uyghur in Nestorian Christian inscriptions of the Yuan period attests to their importance in the Christian community there.\n\nThe Gaochang area was conquered by the Mongols of the Chagatai Khanate (not part of Yuan Dynasty) from 1275 to 1318 by as many as 120,000 troops.\n\nBuddhism spread to China from India along the northern branch of the Silk Road predominantly in the 4th and 5th centuries as the Liang rulers were Buddhists. The building of Buddhist grottos probably began during this period. There are clusters close to Gaochang, the largest being the Bezeklik grottos.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39639653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39639653", "title": "Gold laundering", "text": "Gold laundering\n\nGold laundering is the process whereby illegally obtained gold is melted and recast into another form. The recasting is performed to obscure or conceal the true origin of the gold. The recast gold is then sold, thus laundering it into cash.\n\nIt may also refer to a money laundering transaction in which the exchanged good is gold.\n\nThere are several stages in the gold laundering process. The first is the acquisition of the gold, which may be from any combination of sources, at least one of which is illegal. This is then treated as scrap metal, melted, then cast into a mold. This results in a transportable ingot, gold bar or other bulk form bullion.\n\nIn some cases, there is no gold involved in the laundering scheme. Colombia reported 70 tons of gold exports for 2012 despite production of only 15 tons. This is a result of fictitious gold exports filed with the Colombian customs agency by drug cartels in order to import \"cash from international drug deals\".\n\nAcquisition of the gold occurs in many forms.\n\nSmall-scale gold mining operations, particularly those with no permits or licences, extract gold from areas unsuitable for large mining operations. Gold obtained in this fashion that is exported may not be traced or authenticated. This includes artisanal mines operated by few individuals, who then sell the gold to brokers.\nAnother form of acquisition is theft. In the 1940s, Nazi Germany forcibly obtained the possessions of Jews, sometimes in collaboration with other parties. Most victims who died in death camps and Nazi concentration camps were robbed of all valuable property by the state, which was then sold or, in the case of bullion, sent to the Reichsbank. For example, in 1945 the Hungarian Gold Train was established to transport the property of Hungarian Jews to Berlin. Once the Jews had been deported to German concentration camps, the valuables were sorted into categories such that their owners could no longer be identified. In the late 1930s and throughout World War II, Germany would increase its unofficial gold reserves by expropriating gold from foreign governments, including $223m from Belgium and $193m from the Netherlands. Some of the Nazi gold was exchanged for cash, and some deposited in financial institutions, including $316 million of the looted gold at the Swiss National Bank. Of the nearly 100 tons of gold laundered through Swiss banks, only 4 tons was returned. The Banco de Portugal, the central bank of Portugal, would regularly purchase Nazi gold held at the Swiss National Bank, according to a 1944 document from the American Overseas Special Services.\n\nThe scrap gold is then sold by brokers to smelters or refiners, who heat the gold to at least , its melting point. This may include gold from numerous sources, including recycled and newly mined gold. Once melted, it may be purified by parting, which separates out silver impurities, and the Miller process or Wohlwill process, depending on the desired level of purity and scale of operation.\n\nOnce refined, it is cast into a transportable form for further processing. Gold fingerprinting, that is identifying a particular source of gold based on its impurities or trace elements, may be possible if the impurities have not been removed via refining.\n\nTo prevent laundering of gold and other metals (such as tantalum, tin, and tungsten), some nations have established systems and regulations. For example, Rwanda introduced regulations for mineral trade that requires all ore extraction be tagged, in part a response to the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the United States that requires companies to disclose the use of conflict minerals by publishing a supply chain audit.\n\nHowever, with only 100 government monitors overseeing 450 mining sites during typical business hours, smuggling still occurs, exacerbated by corrupt monitors illegally selling tags or failing to record transactions in logbooks.\n\nIn 2013, Ghanaian president John Dramani Mahama announced that the government of Ghana would establish a task force to regulate the small-scale mining sector. This was to ensure that gold produced in small-scale mines could be authenticated, and also to eliminate the use of heavy machinery that had become prevalent on such sites, which have caused environmental damage.\n\nThe government of Uganda obtained $200 million in trade revenue from the sale of gold in 2012, but expects that to decrease in 2013 as a result of illegal mining operations.\n\nThe group InSight Crime claims that illegal mining represents up to 30% of the revenues of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC).\n\nOn 22 November 2000, the World Jewish Congress lawsuit against Swiss banks was settled, providing a fund of $1.25 billion for restitution to individuals whose property was confiscated by the Nazis during World War II.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1651866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1651866", "title": "Great Lakes Theater", "text": "Great Lakes Theater\n\nGreat Lakes Theater is a professional classic theater company in Cleveland, Ohio, USA. Founded in 1962, Great Lakes is the second-largest regional theater in Northeast Ohio. It specializes in large-cast classic plays with a strong foundation in the works of Shakespeare and features an educational outreach program. The company performs its main stage productions in rotating repertory at its state-of-the-art new home at the Hanna Theatre, Playhouse Square, which reopened on September 20, 2008. The organization shares a resident company of artists with the Idaho Shakespeare Festival. On its main stage and through its education programs, GLT connects approximately 85,000 adults and students to the classics each season.\n\nGLT's artistic directors have included Arthur Lithgow, Lawrence Carra, Vincent Dowling, Gerald Freedman, James Bundy (present Dean of the Yale School of Drama) and Charles Fee, who engineered the company's production-sharing partnership with the Idaho Shakespeare Festival).\n\nIn 2010, Great Lakes Theater completed a $19.2M dollar capital campaign to renovate the Hanna Theatre as a new and permanent home for Great Lakes while creating an endowment for the theater company - preserving the legacy of the classics in Cleveland. The honorary chair of the campaign was actor Tom Hanks, who credits the Great Lakes Theater Festival for beginning his acting career.\n\nGreat Lakes Theater was formerly known as Great Lakes Theater Festival, which continues to be its legal name. \"Festival\" was dropped from the classic theater company’s business name to better reflect its September through May season, and programming format.\n\nArthur Lithgow started what was going to be Great Lakes in the 1950s at Antioch College, in Yellow Springs, Ohio. During the few years in Antioch, all of Shakespeare's plays were performed. The company traveled for performances at Stan Hywet Hall in Akron, the Toledo Zoo, and Cuyahoga Falls. In 1961, Lithgow made an arrangement with Ohio Board of Education President Dorthy Teare, creating the Great Lakes Shakespeare Festival. GLSF premiered July 11, 1962 with\" As You Like It\". It continued at the Lakewood Civic Auditorium performing that play and five others in rotation.\n\nGreat Lakes moved from its original home in Lakewood, Ohio to Playhouse Square in 1982 to become the first resident company in Playhouse Square.\n\nNotable alumni include Tom Hanks (1977-79 as an intern and core company member, and later winner of the Cleveland Critics' circle for best actor in Festival's production of \"The Two Gentlemen of Verona\"), Donald Moffat, Robert Englund, Larry Linville, Cloris Leachman, Piper Laurie, Jean Stapleton, Hal Holbrook and Olympia Dukakis.\n\nLithgow expanded the repertoire beyond Shakespeare in 1965 and left his role as artistic director in 1966.\n\nLawrence Carra became the artistic director until 1975, followed by Vincent Dowling in 1976. Dowling moved the company from its Lakewood Civic Auditorium home to the Ohio Theatre of the Playhouse Square Center in 1982.\n\nGerald Freedman became the artistic director in 1985. Under his direction, GLSF in 1985 changed to its name to the \"Great Lakes Theater Festival,\" to reflect the broader body of work produced beyond Shakespeare. Freedman was followed by James Bundy in 1998.\n\nCharles Fee has been the artistic director since 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "1528711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1528711", "title": "Human extinction", "text": "Human extinction\n\nIn futures studies, human extinction is the hypothetical end of the human species. This may result from natural causes or it may be the result of human action.\n\nThe likelihood of human extinction in future by wholly natural scenarios, such as a meteorite impact or large-scale volcanism, is generally considered to be extremely low.\n\nFor anthropogenic extinction, many possible scenarios have been proposed: human global nuclear annihilation, biological warfare or the release of a pandemic-causing agent, dysgenics, overpopulation, ecological collapse, and climate change; in addition, emerging technologies could bring about new extinction scenarios, such as advanced artificial intelligence, biotechnology or self-replicating nanobots. The probability of anthropogenic human extinction within the next hundred years is the topic of an active debate.\n\nHuman extinction needs to be differentiated from the extinction of all life on Earth (see also future of Earth) and from the extinction of major components of human culture (e.g., through a global catastrophe leaving only small, scattered human populations, which might evolve in isolation).\n\n\"Existential risks\" are risks that threaten the entire future of humanity, whether by causing human extinction or by otherwise permanently crippling human progress. Many scholars make an argument based on the size of the \"cosmic endowment\" and state that because of the inconceivably large number of potential future lives that are at stake, even small reductions of existential risk have great value. Some of the arguments run as follows:\n\nParfit argues that the size of the \"cosmic endowment\" can be calculated from the following argument: If Earth remains habitable for a billion more years and can sustainably support a population of more than a billion humans, then there is a potential for 10 (or 10,000,000,000,000,000) human lives of normal duration. Bostrom goes further, stating that if the universe is empty, then the accessible universe can support at least 10 biological human life-years; and, if some humans were uploaded onto computers, could even support the equivalent of 10 cybernetic human life-years.\n\n\n\nWithout regulation, scientific advancement has a potential to risk human extinction as a result of the effects or use of totally new technologies. Some scenarios include:\n\nNormal biological evolution of humanity will continue and change humans over geological time scales. Although this could, in a non-phylogenetic taxonomy, be considered to give rise of a new species, such an ongoing evolution would biologically not be considered a species extinction. Given the likelihood that significant genetic exchange between human populations will continue, it is highly unlikely that humans will split into multiple species through natural evolution.\n\nSome scenarios envision that humans could use genetic engineering or technological modifications to split into normal humans and a new species – posthumans. Such a species could be fundamentally different from any previous life form on Earth, e.g. by merging humans with technological systems. Such scenarios do harbor a risk of the extinction of the \"old\" human species by means of the new, posthuman entity.\n\nHumans are doing so well that there's no more survival of the fittest. This was highly debated in the 19th century in the form of devolution and degeneration.\n\nBecause human extinction is unprecedented, speculation about the probability of different scenarios is highly subjective. Nick Bostrom argues that it would be \"misguided\" to assume that the probability of near-term extinction is less than 25% and that it will be \"a tall order\" for the human race to \"get our precautions sufficiently right the first time\", given that an existential risk provides no opportunity to learn from failure. A little more optimistically, philosopher John Leslie assigns a 70% chance of humanity surviving the next five centuries, based partly on the controversial philosophical doomsday argument that Leslie champions. The 2006 Stern Review for the UK Treasury assumes the 100-year probability of human extinction is 10% in its economic calculations.\n\nSome scholars believe that certain scenarios such as global thermonuclear war would have difficulty eradicating every last settlement on Earth. Physicist Willard Wells points out that any credible extinction scenario would have to reach into a diverse set of areas, including the underground subways of major cities, the mountains of Tibet, the remotest islands of the South Pacific, and even to McMurdo Station in Antarctica, which has contingency plans and supplies for a long isolation. In addition, elaborate bunkers exist for government leaders to occupy during a nuclear war. Any number of events could lead to a massive loss of human life; but if the last few (but see minimum viable population), most resilient, humans are unlikely to also die off, then that particular human extinction scenario is not credible.\n\nEliezer Yudkowsky theorizes that scope neglect plays a role in public perception of existential risks:\n\nSubstantially larger numbers, such as 500 million deaths, and especially qualitatively different scenarios such as the extinction of the entire human species, seem to trigger a different mode of thinking... People who would never dream of hurting a child hear of an existential risk, and say, \"Well, maybe the human species doesn't really deserve to survive\".\n\nAll past predictions of human extinction have proven to be false. To some, this makes future warnings seem less credible. Nick Bostrom argues that the lack of human extinction in the past is weak evidence that there will be no human extinction in the future, due to survivor bias and other anthropic effects.\n\nSome behavioural finance scholars claim that recent evidence is given undue significance in risk analysis. Roughly speaking, \"100-year storms\" tend to occur every twenty years in the stock market as traders become convinced that the current good times will last forever. Doomsayers who hypothesize rare crisis scenarios are dismissed even when they have statistical evidence behind them. An extreme form of this bias can diminish the subjective probability of the unprecedented.\n\nEven though the importance and potential impact of research on existential risks is often highlighted, relatively few research efforts are being made in this field. In 2001 Bostrom stated:\n\nAlthough existential risks are less manageable by individuals than, e.g., health risks, according to Ken Olum, Joshua Knobe, and Alexander Vilenkin the possibility of human extinction \"does\" have practical implications. For instance, if the \"universal\" Doomsday argument is accepted it changes the most likely source of disasters, and hence the most efficient means of preventing them. They write: \"... you should be more concerned that a large number of asteroids have not yet been detected than about the particular orbit of each one. You should not worry especially about the chance that some specific nearby star will become a supernova, but more about the chance that supernovas are more deadly to nearby life than we believe.\"\n\nMultiple organizations with the goal of helping prevent human extinction exist. Examples are the Future of Humanity Institute, the Centre for the Study of Existential Risk, the Future of Life Institute, the Machine Intelligence Research Institute, and the Global Catastrophic Risk Institute (est. 2011).\n\nOmnicide is human extinction as a result of human action. Most commonly it refers to extinction through nuclear warfare or biological warfare, but it can also apply to extinction through means such as a global anthropogenic ecological catastrophe.\n\nOmnicide can be considered a subcategory of genocide. Using the concept in this way, one can argue, for example, that:\n\nHowever, the Cold War arms race differed from genocide in that the weapons involved were not used, instead serving as nuclear deterrence.\n\nStephen Hawking advocated colonizing other planets within the solar system once technology progresses sufficiently, in order to improve the chance of human survival from planet-wide events such as global thermonuclear war. However this would create the possibility of interstellar war, which could be even more destructive.\n\nMore economically, some scholars propose the establishment on Earth of one or more self-sufficient, remote, permanently occupied settlements specifically created for the purpose of surviving global disaster. Economist Robin Hanson argues that a refuge permanently housing as few as 100 people would significantly improve the chances of human survival during a range of global catastrophes.\n\nSome 21st century pop-science works, including \"The World Without Us\" by Alan Weisman, pose an artistic thought experiment: what would happen to the rest of the planet if humans suddenly disappeared? A threat of human extinction, such as through a technological singularity (also called an intelligence explosion), drives the plot of innumerable science fiction stories; an influential early example is the 1951 film adaption of \"When Worlds Collide\". Usually the extinction threat is narrowly avoided, but some exceptions exist, such as \"R.U.R.\" and Steven Spielberg's \"A.I.\"\n\n\n For research on this, see \"Psychological science\" volume 15 (2004): \"Decisions From Experience and the Effect of Rare Events in Risky Choice\". The under-perception of rare events mentioned above is actually the opposite of the phenomenon originally described by Kahneman in \"prospect theory\" (in their original experiments the likelihood of rare events is overestimated). However, further analysis of the bias has shown that both forms occur: When judging from \"description\" people tend to overestimate the described probability, so this effect taken alone would indicate that reading the extinction scenarios described here should make the reader overestimate the likelihood of any probabilities given. However, the effect that is more relevant to common consideration of human extinction is the bias that occurs with estimates from experience, and these are in the opposite direction: When judging from personal experience people who have never heard of or experienced their species become extinct would be expected to dramatically underestimate its likelihood. Sociobiologist E. O. Wilson argued that: \"The reason for this myopic fog, evolutionary biologists contend, is that it was actually advantageous during all but the last few millennia of the two million years of existence of the genus Homo... A premium was placed on close attention to the near future and early reproduction, and little else. Disasters of a magnitude that occur only once every few centuries were forgotten or transmuted into myth.\" (Is Humanity Suicidal? \"The New York Times Magazine\" 30 May 1993).\n\n"}
{"id": "43058641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43058641", "title": "Igedo", "text": "Igedo\n\nIgedo (Igedo Company GmbH & Co. KG) is an organiser of fashion fairs and shows established in 1949 and located in Düsseldorf, Germany. The acronym abbreviates \"Interessengemeinschaft Damenoberbekleidung\", in English \"Community of interests for women's outerwear\". Since 2004 it belongs to Messe Düsseldorf.\n\nThe former fashion fairs of the Igedo known as \"Verkaufs- und Modewoche Düsseldorf\", \"Igedo Fashion Fairs\" or \"Collection Premiére Düsseldorf\" (CPD - 30,000 trade visitors in 2009) were at times the largest in the world. Since 2007, the Bread and Butter tradeshow in Berlin surpassed its dominance.\n\nIgedo has branches in Moscow and Almaty.\n\n"}
{"id": "23194298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23194298", "title": "Intercontinental Le Mans Cup", "text": "Intercontinental Le Mans Cup\n\nThe Intercontinental Le Mans Cup (shortened ILMC) was an endurance sports car racing tournament organised by the Automobile Club de l'Ouest (ACO) started in 2010. The plans were first announced in June 2009 and confirmed in December of the same year.\n\nBoth sports prototypes and grand tourers were eligible to compete for the ILMC: the LMP1 and GTE classes each had a manufacturers cup, whereas all ACO classes had teams cups as long as there were at least four entries. In 2010 also the GT1 class was eligible for the final time.\n\nPeugeot was totally dominant winning 9 out of the 10 races during the two years.\n\nFor 2012, the ACO and the FIA announced the creation of a new FIA World Endurance Championship. This championship would use similar rules to and would replace the Intercontinental Le Mans Cup.\n\nThe 2010 calendar comprised the 1000 km Silverstone (Silverstone, United Kingdom, September 12), the Petit Le Mans (Road Atlanta, United States, October 2) and the 1000 km Zhuhai (Zhuhai, China, November 7). Meanwhile, the 2011 calendar expanded to seven events. Along with the Silverstone (six-hour race) and Petit Le Mans races on similar dates, the championship started with the 12 Hours of Sebring (Sebring, United States, March) before moving into Europe to contest a six-hour race at Spa-Francorchamps in Belgium on May, the 24 Hours of Le Mans (Le Mans, France, June 11–12), and another six hour race at the Imola circuit in Italy on July. The season finale was held in China on the Zhuhai circuit.\n\n"}
{"id": "55579888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55579888", "title": "Iraq conflict (2003–present)", "text": "Iraq conflict (2003–present)\n\nThe Iraqi conflict (2003–present) is a long-running armed conflict that began with the 2003 invasion of Iraq by a United States-led coalition that toppled the government of Saddam Hussein. However, the conflict continued as an insurgency emerged to oppose the occupying forces and the post-invasion Iraqi government. The United States officially withdrew from the country in 2011, but became re-involved in 2014 at the head of a new coalition.\n\nThe main rationale for the invasion of Iraq was based on U.S. and U.K. allegations that Saddam Hussein was developing weapons of mass destruction and that he thus presented a threat to his neighbors and to the world community. The U.S. stated \"on November 8, 2002, the UN Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 1441. All fifteen members of the Security Council agreed to give Iraq a final opportunity to comply with its obligations and disarm or face the serious consequences of failing to disarm. The resolution strengthened the mandate of the UN Monitoring and Verification Commission (UNMOVIC) and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), giving them authority to go anywhere, at any time and talk to anyone in order to verify Iraq's disarmament.\"\n\nThroughout the early 2000s, the administrations of George W. Bush and Tony Blair worked to build a case for invading Iraq, culminating in the U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell's address to the Security Council one month before the invasion. Shortly after the invasion, the Central Intelligence Agency, Defense Intelligence Agency, and other intelligence agencies largely discredited evidence related to Iraqi weapons as well as links to Al-Qaeda, and at this point the Bush and Blair administrations began to shift to secondary rationales for the war, such as the Hussein government's human rights record and promoting democracy in Iraq. Opinion polls showed that people of nearly all countries opposed a war without UN mandate and that the view of the United States as a danger to world peace had significantly increased. U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan described the war as illegal, saying in an interview in 2004 that it was \"not in conformity with the Security Council.\"\n\nAccusations of faulty evidence and alleged shifting rationales became the focal point for critics of the war, who charge that the Bush administration purposely fabricated evidence to justify an invasion that it had long planned to launch. Supporters of the war claim that the threat from Iraq and Saddam Hussein was real and that it had later been established. The U.S. led the effort for \"the redirection of former Iraqi weapons of mass destruction (WMD) scientists, technicians and engineers to civilian employment and discourage emigration of this community from Iraq.\"\n\nThe invasion of Iraq lasted from 20 March to 1 May 2003 and signaled the start of the Iraq War, which was dubbed Operation Iraqi Freedom by the United States. The invasion consisted of 21 days of major combat operations, in which a combined force of troops from the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia and Poland invaded Iraq and deposed the Ba'athist government of Saddam Hussein. The invasion phase consisted primarily of a conventionally fought war which included the capture of the Iraqi capital of Baghdad by American forces with the implicit assistance of the United Kingdom alongside Australia and Poland.\n\n160,000 troops were sent by the Coalition into Iraq, during the initial invasion phase, which lasted from 19 March to 9 April 2003. About 130,000 were sent from the USA alone, with about 28,000 British soldiers, Australia (2,000), and Poland (194). 36 other countries were involved in its aftermath. In preparation for the invasion, 100,000 U.S. troops were assembled in Kuwait by 18 February. The coalition forces also received support from Kurdish irregulars in Iraqi Kurdistan.\n\nThe invasion was preceded by an airstrike on the Presidential Palace in Baghdad on 20 March 2003. The following day, coalition forces launched an incursion into Basra Province from their massing point close to the Iraqi-Kuwaiti border. While the special forces launched an amphibious assault from the Persian Gulf to secure Basra and the surrounding petroleum fields, the main invasion army moved into southern Iraq, occupying the region and engaging in the Battle of Nasiriyah on 23 March. Massive air strikes across the country and against Iraqi command and control threw the defending army into chaos and prevented an effective resistance. On 26 March, the 173rd Airborne Brigade was airdropped near the northern city of Kirkuk, where they joined forces with Kurdish rebels and fought several actions against the Iraqi Army to secure the northern part of the country.\n\nThe main body of coalition forces continued their drive into the heart of Iraq and met with little resistance. Most of the Iraqi military was quickly defeated and Baghdad was occupied on 9 April. Other operations occurred against pockets of the Iraqi army, including the capture and occupation of Kirkuk on 10 April, and the attack and capture of Tikrit on 15 April. Iraqi president Saddam Hussein and the central leadership went into hiding as the coalition forces completed the occupation of the country. On 1 May, an end of major combat operations was declared, ending the invasion period and beginning the military occupation period.\n\nInvading U.S.-led forces were unable to immediately fill the power vacuum caused by the sudden collapse of a highly centralized state authority, resulting in weeks of virtual anarchy. The rampant looting during this time period, and the inability of U.S.-led forces to control the situation, led to Iraqi resentment. Additionally, the unexpectedly quick implosion of Saddam Hussein's regime meant that the invading forces never engaged and decisively defeated his army in any major battle; the Iraqi army forces simply melted away, often with their weapons, back to their homes. Another cause of resentment was the lack of immediate humanitarian aid and reconstruction efforts for Iraqis suffering from the invasion, the long-term effects of the repression and mismanagement of the Saddam Hussein regime, and international sanctions. A number of factions felt suspicious of long-term American intentions; the conduct of some American soldiers also served to heighten tensions. The de-Ba'athification Commission set up by the Coalition Provisional Authority, the nature of selection of the Governing Council, and other policy decisions were interpreted by Sunni Arabs as actions intended to single out their community for discrimination; this encouraged the beginnings of sectarian tensions.\n\nIn May 2003, after the Iraqi conventional forces had been defeated and disbanded, the U.S. military noticed a gradually increasing flurry of attacks on U.S. troops in various regions of the so-called \"Sunni Triangle\", especially in Baghdad and in the regions around Fallujah and Tikrit. The U.S. military blamed the attacks on remnants of the Ba'ath Party and the Fedayeen Saddam militia. Tensions between U.S. forces and the residents of Fallujah were especially severe, with crowd riots and small skirmishes commonplace.\n\nMembers of insurgent groups came from a variety of sources. Former members of the security services of the Ba'ath regime, former military officers, and some other Ba'ath Party members are cited as members of insurgent groups; indeed, these elements formed the primary backbone of the nascent insurgency. Initially, most former members of the Ba'ath Party and former Iraqi soldiers expressed a willingness to compromise with the Coalition forces. However, many lost their jobs and pensions with the disbanding of the Iraqi army by Paul Bremer; this, and the unwillingness of the Coalition Provisional Authority to negotiate with former Ba'ath elements, provided impetus for the initial insurgency. While 80% of the army officers were Sunni, the rank and file of the regular army was 80% Shia. Prisoners let out of prison by Saddam Hussein before his disappearance provided another source both of insurgent recruits and of organized crime factions. Finally, as O'Hanlan says, the porous borders of Iraq and the subsequent foreign insurgents also bolstered the insurgency.\n\nResistance to U.S.-led forces would not for long be confined to the Sunni regions of Iraq. Between 2003 and 2004, Shiite dissatisfaction with the occupation, especially among the urban poor, had been gradually increasing for some of the same reasons it had been among the Sunnis: the perception that the Coalition had failed to deliver on its promises and a nationalist dissatisfaction with foreign occupation. Many young men without jobs or prospects and who had lost faith with the promises of the U.S. began to become drawn to Shiite religious radicalism, especially of the brand advocated by the cleric Muqtada al-Sadr. Sadr's distinguished family background, and his fiery anti-occupation rhetoric and calls for the implementation of Islamic law, caused him to emerge as the leader of this portion of Iraqi Shiite society. In June 2003, after being rejected from a spot on the Iraqi Governing Council, he had created a militia known as the Mahdi Army, whose mission he said was to help keep order and cleanse Iraq of \"evil.\" Since that point, the U.S. had regarded him as a threat, but was divided on whether or not to proceed with a crackdown. Eventually, as Sadr's rhetoric heated and his militia paraded through Sadr City in what seemed like a challenge to the United States, they decided to begin to squeeze his movement. On March 29, they moved to close Sadr's newspaper known as \"al-Hawza\" and arrested one of his aides on murder charges. That, combined with his steadily decreasing political prospects for success within the U.S.-backed interim government, pushed Sadr to decide for armed revolt.\n\nOn April 4, the Mahdi Army was directed to begin launching attacks on coalition targets and to seize control from the nascent U.S.-trained Iraqi security forces. The Mahdi Army, which by then numbered from 3,000 to 10,000 men, organized quickly escalating violent riots and then a coordinated assault, surprising coalition and Iraqi forces and seizing control of Najaf, Kufa, al-Kut, and parts of Baghdad and southern cities like Nasiriyah, Amarah, and Basra. A widespread collapse of the Iraqi security forces ensued, with most deserting or defecting to the rebels rather than fighting. Soon, combat was erupting in many urban centers of southern and central portions of Iraq as U.S. forces attempted to maintain control and prepared for a counteroffensive.\nAt the same time, the Sunni insurgency was rapidly intensifying. On March 31, 2004, four private military contractors working for the U.S. military were killed and subsequently mutilated by insurgents and a crowd of residents in the city of Fallujah, long a particularly troublesome center of Sunni resistance to the U.S. presence. On the same day, 5 U.S. soldiers were killed by a large IED on a road a few miles outside of the city. The attacks took place as the Marines were taking over responsibility for al-Anbar province, in which Fallujah is located, from the U.S. Army. The intended Marine strategy of patrols, less aggressive raids, humanitarian aid, and close cooperation with local leaders was quickly suspended and the U.S. decided that it was time for a major assault to clear the city of insurgents. On April 4, U.S. and Iraqi forces launched Operation Vigilant Resolve to retake the city, which had clearly fallen completely into rebel hands. They met very stiff and well-organized resistance from the guerrillas. After three days of fighting with the U.S. Marines, the insurgents still held three-quarters of the city. Cases of widespread reach and planning, suggesting national insurgent coordination, were noted. Hundreds of insurgents cut the road between Fallujah and Baghdad to the east, while west of Fallujah in Ramadi, over 150 insurgents launched an offensive against U.S. Marine positions. A similar attack followed, conducted by about 150 insurgents, against U.S. Marines near the Syrian border in al-Qaim. The assaults were beaten back, but the U.S. toll from the combined attacks numbered in the dozens. Political pressure began to build on the United States and the Governing Council of Iraq as the hospital of Fallujah continued to report high numbers of civilian casualties, inflaming further the Iraqi people and Muslim world in general. After two weeks of fighting, the U.S. Marines were on the verge of capturing, but had not yet taken central control of, the city of Fallujah. Pentagon leaders, fearing that continuing the effort to capture the city might further inflame a larger revolt against Coalition authority, pulled back the forces. The Marines were ordered to stand-down and cordon off the city on April 30, where they would remain in a perimeter around the city for the following six months. A compromise on April 30 was reached in order to ensure security within Fallujah itself by creating the \"Fallujah Brigade\", a unit that drew from former members of Iraq's Army, local volunteers, and even the insurgents themselves. The unit's formation was part of a truce negotiation. This unit was to act under the control of the Coalition Provisional Authority, patrol alongside the Iraqi Police and National Guardsmen but maintain its autonomy. The Fallujah Brigade had many former Saddam loyalists. From various reports, Brigade members re-integrated themselves into the insurgent outfits that dominated. The city remained under the control of insurgent forces. Reportedly, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi's organization was among the several that exercised some authority in the area.\n\nBy the end of the spring uprising, the cities of Fallujah, Samarra, Baquba, and Ramadi had been left under Sunni guerrilla control with American patrols in the cities ceased. The insurgency had undergone another major shift, as insurgent organizations now had safe havens in cities such as Fallujah to develop and coordinate with each other. Zarqawi's group and its allies were in a period of uneasy cooperation with other insurgent groups dominated by nationalist and Ba'athist agendas, although the groups increasingly came into competition for territory within Sunni insurgent-controlled areas. U.S. forces launched only occasional armored forays into Samarra and Baquba, while about half a dozen small forts were maintained by the U.S. Marines in Ramadi, with the surrounding territory in the city controlled by rebels. American ground forces remained outside of Fallujah, though regular air strikes were conducted on alleged safehouses of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi's followers in the city. With the battle for Fallujah over, the Sunni insurgency continued against the U.S. forces remaining outside these cities as the guerrillas resumed their tactics of using IED's and mortars to attack U.S. forces indirectly, for the most part avoiding direct combat.\n\nMeanwhile, the fighting continued in the Shiite south. Over the next three months, over 1,500 Mahdi Army militiamen, several hundred civilians, and dozens of coalition soldiers were killed as the U.S. gradually took back the southern cities. On June 6, a truce was reached, temporarily ending the fighting.\n\nOn June 28, 2004, the occupation was formally ended by the Coalition, which transferred power to a new Iraqi government led by Prime Minister Ayad Allawi. Although many Iraqis were optimistic about the government, militants saw it as little more than an American puppet and continued the fight unabated. On July 18, guerrillas offered a $285,000 reward for Allawi's assassination.\n\nIn February 2006, the Salafi jihadist organization Tanzim Qaidat al-Jihad fi Bilad al-Rafidayn (also known as Al-Qaeda in Iraq) bombed one of the holiest sites in Shi'a Islam - the al-Askari Mosque in Samarra. This set off a wave of Shi'a reprisals against Sunnis followed by Sunni counterattacks. The conflict escalated over the next several months until by 2007, the National Intelligence Estimate described the situation as having elements of a civil war.\n\nIn 2008 and 2009, during the Sunni Awakening and the surge, violence declined dramatically. However, low-level strife continued to plague Iraq until the U.S. withdrawal in late 2011.\n\nIn October 2006, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the Iraqi government estimated that more than 370,000 Iraqis had been displaced since the 2006 bombing of the al-Askari Mosque, bringing the total number of Iraqi refugees to more than 1.6 million. By 2008, the UNHCR raised the estimate of refugees to a total of about 4.7 million (~16% of the population). The number of refugees estimated abroad was 2 million (a number close to CIA projections) and the number of internally displaced people was 2.7 million. The estimated number of orphans across Iraq has ranged from 400,000 (according to the Baghdad Provincial Council), to five million (according to Iraq's anti-corruption board). A UN report from 2008 placed the number of orphans at about 870,000. The Red Cross stated in 2008 that Iraq's humanitarian situation was among the most critical in the world, with millions of Iraqis forced to rely on insufficient and poor-quality water sources.\n\nAccording to the Failed States Index, produced by Foreign Policy magazine and the Fund for Peace, Iraq was one of the world's top 5 unstable states from 2005 to 2008. A poll of top U.S. foreign policy experts conducted in 2007 showed that over the next 10 years, just 3% of experts believed the U.S. would be able to rebuild Iraq into a \"beacon of democracy\" and 58% of experts believed that Sunni–Shiite tensions would dramatically increase in the Middle East.\n\nTwo polls of Americans conducted in 2006 found that between 65% to 85% believed Iraq was in a civil war. However, a similar poll of Iraqis conducted in 2007 found that 61% did not believe that they were in a civil war.\n\nThe withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Iraq was a contentious issue in the United States for much of the 2000s. As the war progressed from its initial invasion phase in 2003 to a nearly decade-long occupation, American public opinion shifted towards favoring a troop withdrawal; in May 2007, 55% of Americans believed that the Iraq War was a mistake, and 51% of registered voters favored troop withdrawal. In late April 2007 Congress passed a supplementary spending bill for Iraq that set a deadline for troop withdrawal but President Bush vetoed this bill, citing his concerns about setting a withdrawal deadline. The Bush Administration later sought an agreement with the Iraqi government, and in 2008 George W. Bush signed the U.S.–Iraq Status of Forces Agreement. It included a deadline of 31 December 2011, before which \"all the United States Forces shall withdraw from all Iraqi territory\". The last U.S. troops left Iraq on 18 December 2011, in accordance with this agreement.\n\nThe Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant's (ISIS, ISIL) military campaign was very successful, and the group took swathes of territory in northern Iraq during 2014. Violence reached very high levels, with 1,775 people killed in the month of June alone. These figures remained very high for the remainder of the year.\n\nThe 2017 Iraqi–Kurdish conflict occurred in and around the Kurdish region of northern Iraq that began on 15 October 2017, shortly after the Iraqi Kurdistan referendum in 2017 was held on September 25. After the independence referendum, Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi demanded the referendum to be canceled. In October, the Iraqi military moved into the Kurdistan region after the entry of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. On 16 October 2017, the Kurdish Peshmerga ignored a deadline given by Iraq to withdraw. This led to Battle of Kirkuk (2017), and Iraqi forces and Iranian-backed PMU retaking Kirkuk and its province on 15 October 2017. Within 15 hours, the city of Kirkuk and the nearby K-1 Air Base, along with surrounding oilfields, were retaken by Iraqi forces. This resulted in the conflict's end.\n\nOn December 9, 2017, the last ISIL-held areas in the al-Jazira Desert were captured by the Iraqi military. The prime minister later declared victory, and celebrations occurred soon after.\n\nFollowing ISIL's defeat, the group has continued an insurgency. However they have been greatly weakened and violence in Iraq has been sharply reduced in 2018. Only 95 people lost their lives during the month of May, the lowest figure in 10 years.\n"}
{"id": "55540796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55540796", "title": "Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2018", "text": "Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2018\n\nThe Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2018 was the sixteenth annual Junior Eurovision Song Contest, organised by the Belarusian Television and Radio Company (BTRC) and the European Broadcasting Union (EBU). It took place in the Belarusian capital city, Minsk on 25 November 2018 at the Minsk-Arena. It was the second time that the contest was held in Belarus, after it staged the at the same venue.\n\nA record twenty countries took part in the contest, with and participating for the first time. returned for the first time since , alongside for the first time since and after missing the . withdrew from the contest. \n\nThe winner was Roksana Węgiel, who represented with the song \"Anyone I Want to Be\". This was Poland's first win in the junior contest and the eighth time they have won a Eurovision event, the last being Eurovision Young Dancers 2017 in Prague. came second, their best result at the contest, while placed third for the second year in a row. was the best performing debuting nation, finishing sixth, whilst came last.\n\nThe EBU confirmed on 15 October 2017, that the contest would be hosted by Belarus. This will be the second time Belarus hosts the Junior Eurovision Song contest, after hosting the contest.\n\nOn 21 November 2017, Belarus' Deputy Prime Minister Vasily Zharko confirmed that the contest was scheduled to be held at Minsk-Arena in November 2018. The arena previously hosted the 2010 contest. However, on 26 November 2017, it was confirmed by the host broadcaster that the exact location of the contest is still unknown, stating that Minsk Arena was one of the possible options. On 18 March 2018, the 15,000-capacity Minsk-Arena was confirmed as the venue by the contest organisers.\n\nThe slogan was the hashtag \"#LightUp\". The logo of the contest was based around a morning star made of vertically inverted soundwaves. The source of inspiration was the artistic potential and creative aspiration of the young participants who fill the scene like a star.\n\nOn 26 October 2018, it was announced that Eugene Perlin and Zinaida Kupriyanovich would host the contest, together with Helena Meraai in the green room. Meraai is the fourth person under the age of sixteen to ever host the Junior Eurovision Song Contest, after Ioana Ivan in , Dmytro Borodin in and Lizi Japaridze in , and is also the second former participant to host an edition of the contest. Meraai previously in the 2017 contest, where she placed fifth with the song \"\". Perlin is a television presenter and the country's Eurovision commentator since 2013, whilst Kupriyanovich is a singer and artist who has participated in Belarus' national selections for the 2015 and 2016 Junior Eurovision Song Contests. It was also announced that Denis Dudinsky and Anna Kviloria will host the opening ceremony.\n\nThe results were determined by national juries and an online audience vote. Every country used a national jury that consisted of three music industry professionals and two kids aged between 10 and 15 who were citizens of the country they represent. The first phase of the online voting started on 23 November 2018 when a recap of all the rehearsal performances were shown on the official website before the viewers could vote. Following this recap, voters had the option to watch longer one-minute clips from each participant’s rehearsal. This first round of voting ended on 25 November at 15:59 CET. The second phase of the online voting took place during the live show and started after the last performance and was open for 15 minutes. International viewers could vote for a minimum of three countries and a maximum of five, including their own country.\n\nThe amount of points were determined by the percentage of votes received. The public vote counted for 50% of the final result, while the other 50% came from the professional juries.\n\nThe trophy was designed by Kjell Engman of the Swedish glass company Kosta Boda, using the same design as was first introduced in the 2017 contest. The main trophy is a glass microphone with colored lines inside the upper part, which symbolize the flow of sound.\n\nOn 25 July 2018, the EBU released the official list of participants with 19 competing countries. was given special dispensation by the host broadcaster BTRC and the EBU in order to participate as the country had won the adult contest earlier that year. were invited to make their debut appearance in the contest this year. \n\nDespite initially withdrawing from the contest on 2 July 2018 due to financial difficulties, were added to the list of participating countries on 2 August 2018, setting a record of 20 countries to compete in the contest.\n\nA total of 1,283,921 valid votes were received during the voting windows.\nFor a country to be eligible for potential participation in the Junior Eurovision Song Contest, it needs to be an active member of the EBU. It is currently unknown whether the EBU issue invitations of participation to all 56 active members like they do for the Eurovision Song Contest.\n\n\nThe following broadcasters publicly declined to participate in the contest without providing any further explanations:\n\n\nJunior Eurovision Song Contest Minsk 2018 is a compilation album put together by the European Broadcasting Union, and was released by Universal Music Group on 16 November 2018. The album features all the songs from the 2018 contest.\n\n"}
{"id": "37521897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37521897", "title": "Leeds City Council election, 1984", "text": "Leeds City Council election, 1984\n\nThe Leeds City Council elections were held on Thursday, 3 May 1984, with one third of the council to be elected. In the interim there had been a by-election in Armley to replace the incumbent councillor Michael Meadowcroft after he was elected the Leeds West MP, resulting in an Alliance hold.\n\nThe Conservative's downward trend continued after last year's respite to a new party low, resulting in a 3% swing to Labour. In contrast, the Alliance support stabilised after the prior year's fall to retain a healthy proportion of their initial 1982 surge. Despite the swing towards them, Labour finished the night with a net loss, as the Alliance won the only remaining Burmantofts seat they did not hold from them. The Alliance also gained in Moortown, winning their first seat in the ward from the Conservatives - who lost another in Pudsey South to their former incumbent turn Independent, achieving the feat of first elected Independent onto the council.\n\nThis result has the following consequences for the total number of seats on the council after the elections:\n"}
{"id": "26287201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26287201", "title": "Market foreclosure", "text": "Market foreclosure\n\nMarket foreclosure is the exclusion that results when a downstream buyer is denied access to an upstream supplier (caused from an Upstream foreclosure) or when an upstream supplier is denied access to a downstream buyer. A supplier or intermediary in a supply chain can acquire this form of market power through mergers and acquisitions up and down its value chain (vertical integration).\n\nVertical integration does not always carry the danger of foreclosure. Hortacsu and Syverson reviewed plant and market data in the US cement and concrete industries over a 34-year span; they found that vertical integration lead to lower prices and higher quantities for consumers.\n\nThis is contrary to what one would expect in a market experiencing foreclosure by players with market power. Similarly, a review of exclusive dealing practices in the Chicago beer market by Asker fails to show foreclosure effects.\n\nOn the other hand, an examination of media markets showed that integrated operators are likely to exclude rival program services, and attempt to increase the barrier to entry in the market. Thus, effectively blocking some program services from the distribution networks of vertically integrated cable system operators.\n\nFor example, in industries like gasoline refining, distribution, and retail; it is possible to argue that a vertically-integrated refiner reduces competition through practices that constrain supply to retailers outside its network of related firms. Some researchers have suggested that US wholesale gasoline prices may be inflated by 0.2 to 0.6 cents per gallon due to the market power wielded by vertically integrated players in the industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "6614811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6614811", "title": "Miss Universe 1988", "text": "Miss Universe 1988\n\nMiss Universe 1988, the 37th Miss Universe pageant, was held on 24 May 1988 sponsored by Formosa Airlines at the Lin Kou Stadium in Taipei, Taiwan. Porntip Nakhirunkanok from Thailand crowned by Cecilia Bolocco of Chile. 66 contestants competed in this year.\n\n\n\nHelsinki, Finland was elected as the host city after Bob Barker announced he would serve as host for 1988 pageant. On January 3, 1988, the mayor of Helsinki, Raimo Ilaskivi, announced that his city would not host the 1988 pageant due to critical problems. On January 4, 1988, the day after Helsinki cancelled to host the 1988 pageant, the mayor of Taipei, Hsu Shui-teh, announced that his city would serve as host the 1988 pageant.\n\n"}
{"id": "695974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=695974", "title": "Moving violation", "text": "Moving violation\n\nA moving violation is any violation of the law committed by the driver of a vehicle while it is in motion. The term \"motion\" distinguishes it from other motor vehicle violations, such as paperwork violations (which include violations involving automobile insurance, registration and inspection), parking violations, or equipment violations.\n\nWhile some violations, like parking violations, are civil matters involving a vehicle's owner, moving violations are charged against the actual driver.\n\nMoving violations are usually classified as infractions or misdemeanors, but serious violations such as hit and run, driving under the influence, and road rage can be considered felonies.\n\nMoving violations involve fines which must be paid as well and sometimes punitive \"points\" assessed to the license of the driver. As a driver accumulates points, he or she may be required to attend defensive driving lessons, re-take his or her driving test, pay additional taxes, or even surrender his or her license. Additionally, drivers with more points on their driving record often must pay more for car insurance than drivers with fewer.\n\nSometimes tickets are used in a speed trap as a form of fundraising. For example, a local government that is suffering a budget shortfall may ticket more aggressively within its jurisdiction to increase revenue.\n\nIn the United States, citation fines can vary widely between jurisdictions for the same behaviour, usually between $25 and $1000. In countries such as Finland, however, they are specific proportions of the violator's income, and fines in excess of $100,000 can be assessed to wealthy individuals. In Canada, each province is individual in how they treat similar behaviour and each violation usually includes a set fine and demerit points against the driver's license. For example, a speeding ticket in Ontario of 50+ km over is 6 demerit points against the driver's licence with the approximate fine calculated as (km over x 9.75) x 1.25, as well it carries a one-week automatic licence suspension and car impoundment. In Manitoba speeding in excess of 49 km is 8 demerit points and a fine of 557 dollars.\n\nMore serious moving violations include:\n\n"}
{"id": "30860671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30860671", "title": "Museum of Hoaxes", "text": "Museum of Hoaxes\n\nThe Museum of Hoaxes is a website created by Alex Boese in 1997 in San Diego, California as a resource for reporting and discussing hoaxes and urban legends, both past and present.\n\nIn 2004, PC Magazine included the site as one of the \"Top 100 Sites You Didn't Know You Couldn't Live Without,\" and Sci Fi Weekly named it \"site of the week\" for the week beginning 7 February 2007.\n\nBoese has published two books on hoaxes: \"Museum of Hoaxes\" (E.P. Dutton, 2002, ) and \"Hippo Eats Dwarf: A Field Guide to Hoaxes and Other B.S.\" (Harvest Books, 2006, ). A third book by Boese, \"Elephants on Acid\" (Harvest Books, 2007, ), focuses on unusual scientific experiments. His latest book is \"Electrified Sheep\", published by Boxtree 2011, is also about strange scientific experiments.\n\n"}
{"id": "5268262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5268262", "title": "Music competition", "text": "Music competition\n\nA music competition is a public event designed to identify and award outstanding musical ensembles, soloists and musicologists. Pop music competitions are music competitions which are held to find pop starlets. Examples of music competitions include Open Mic UK, SoundWave Music Competition, All-Japan Band Association annual contest, the World Music Contest, Live and Unsigned, the Eurovision Song Contest, and \"American Idol.\"\n\nThe European Classical art music idiom has long relied on the institution of music competitions to provide a public forum that identifies the strongest young players and contributes to the establishment of their professional careers (see List of classical music competitions). Popular instrumental ensembles such as brass bands and school bands have also long relied on competitions and festivals to promote their musical genres and recognize high levels of achievement. In recent decades large competitions have also developed in the field of popular music to showcase performances by pop vocalists and rock bands (e.g. \"Idol series\" and \"Battle of the Bands\" events).\n\nThe music competitions with the largest audiences are widely televised events in the genre of popular music, such as the Eurovision Song Contest and \"American Idol\". The Open Mic UK and Live and Unsigned contests in the United Kingdom each garner approximately 10,000 contestants annually, making them the largest contests in the region.\n\nAccording to 2005 statistics, more than 650,000 visitors attend the World Music Contest (Kerkrade, the Netherlands), which has 19,000 contestants from over 30 countries, making it one of the largest competitions in Europe. The All-Japan Band Association annual contest appears to be the world's largest music competition in terms of the number of active contestants, with approximately 800,000 competing musicians in more than 14,000 bands. A competition which has recently hit the United Kingdom music scene is called SoundWave Music Competition. This competition allows for singers, bands and all acts of all genres a chance to play at the O2 Academy Leeds, Newcastle and Glasgow. SoundWave Music Competition is a high profile competition and the biggest music competition in Northern England and Scotland where entrants can win radio slots and recording within the best recording studios in the United Kingdom and Scotland.\nOne of the oldest music competitions in the world is the International Naumburg Competition, in New York, which had its first competition in 1926. In recent years, the largest music competition in terms of number of global genres represented appears to be Sharq Taronalari, an enormous festival sponsored by UNESCO and the government of Uzbekistan.\n\nThe title for world's largest non-competitive music event has been claimed by the WOMAD festival in England as well as Summerfest, a non-competitive music event in Milwaukee, Wisconsin that typically attracts around 1 million visitors.\n\n"}
{"id": "45075608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45075608", "title": "Muslim conquest of Azerbaijan", "text": "Muslim conquest of Azerbaijan\n\nIn 643 or years of 22 Hijr, After the conquest of Rayy and Central Persia, Umar ordered the conquest of Azarbaijan. The Rashidun Caliphate continued the conquest towards Azerbaijan first under the force of Al Mughirah bin Shubah. this was also reported by Abu Jafar (Tabari) which quoting the report from Ahmad bin Thabit al Razi.\n\nLater at some points Umar appointed Hudheifa to the command of the campaign against Azarbaijan. Hudheifa first marched to Zanjan. Here the local garrison put up resistance but they were overpowered and the city was conquered. From Zanjan the Muslim forces proceeded to Ardabil where The Persians in here did not offer any resistance and surrendered on the usual terms of Jizya. From Ardabeel the Muslim forces marched northward along the western coast of the Caspian Sea. There was a confrontation at Bab area which was an important port on the Caspian Sea. This time the Muslims also scored a victory but for unknown circumstances at this stage Hudheifa was recalled. The Persians launched a counterattack causing Muslims abandoned their forward posts in Azarbaijan, as a response Umar now sent the expeditionary forces to Azarbaijan, one led by Bukair ibn Abdullah and the other by Utba bin Farqad. The contingent under Bukair had their first confrontation with the Persians at Jurmizan. The Persians were commanded by Isandiar. In the battle which was quite severe, the Persians were defeated and their commander Isandiar was captured alive. Isandiar asked Bukair, \"Do you prefer war or peace?\" Bukair said that the Muslims preferred peace. Isandiar thereupon said, \"Then keep me with you till I can help you in negotiating peace with the people of Azarbaijan\". There were many forts in the hills. The Persians went to these hills and shut themselves in the forts. The Muslims captured the entire area in the plains.\n\nDuring the years of 25 Hijr in Islamic Calendar, the Mushaf Uthmani of Quran was created in attempt to avoid linguistic confusion of Qur'an which translated to local dialect of Azerbaijan and Armenia. Hudhaifa warned Uthman that the newly translated Qur'an would lose its original Tafseer if it didn't standardized in original Mushaf or version first before the local could translate and give commentary of Quran interpretation.\n\nBukair ibn Abdullah, who had recently subdued Azerbaijan, was assigned a mission to capture Tiflis. From Bab at the western coast of the Caspian Sea, Bukair continued his march north. Umar decided to practice his traditional and successful strategy of multi-pronged attacks. While Bukair was still miles away from Tiflis, Umar instructed him to divide his army into three corps. Umar appointed Habib ibn Muslaima to capture Tiflis, Abdulrehman to march north against the mountains and Hudheifa to march against the southern mountains. Habib captured Tiflis and the region up to the eastern coast of the Black Sea. Abdulrehman marched north to the Caucasus Mountains and subdued the tribes. Hudheifa marched south-west to the mountainous region and subdued the local tribes. The advance into Armenia came to an end with the death of Caliph Umar in November 644. By then almost the whole of the South Caucasus was captured.\n\nfurther to 645 forces under Walid Bin Uqba campaigning in four-year rotation in two frontier district(Thughur) of Ray and Azerbaijan. one quarter of 40.000 army from Kufa campaigned each year with around 4000 in Ray and 6000 in Azerbaijan\n"}
{"id": "610448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=610448", "title": "Norbert Wiener Prize in Applied Mathematics", "text": "Norbert Wiener Prize in Applied Mathematics\n\nThe Norbert Wiener Prize in Applied Mathematics is a $5000 prize awarded, every three years, for an outstanding contribution to \"applied mathematics in the highest and broadest sense.\" It was endowed in 1967 in honor of Norbert Wiener by MIT's mathematics department and is provided jointly by the American Mathematical Society and Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "265930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265930", "title": "Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore Services, Inc.", "text": "Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore Services, Inc.\n\nOncale v. Sundowner Offshore Services, , was a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States. The case arose out of a suit for sex discrimination by a male oil-rig worker, who claimed that he was repeatedly subjected to sexual harassment by his male co-workers with the acquiescence of his employer. The Court held that Title VII's protection against workplace discrimination \"because of... sex\" applied to harassment in the workplace between members of the same sex.\n\nIn late October 1991, Joseph Oncale was working for Sundowner Offshore Services on a Chevron USA Inc. oil platform in the Gulf of Mexico. He was employed as a roustabout on an eight-man crew. On several occasions, Oncale was forcibly subjected to sex-related, humiliating actions against him by his coworkers in the presence of the rest of the crew. Oncale was also sodomized with a bar of soap and threatened with rape. Oncale's complaints to supervisory personnel produced no remedial action. Instead, the company's Safety Compliance Clerk called him a name suggesting homosexuality. Oncale eventually quit, asking that his pink slip reflect that he \"voluntarily left due to sexual harassment and verbal abuse.\"\n\nOncale filed a complaint against Sundowner in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, alleging that he was discriminated against in his employment because of his sex. Relying on earlier precedents, the district court granted summary judgment to the defendant: \"Mr. Oncale, a male, has no cause of action under Title VII for harassment by male co-workers.\" Oncale appealed, and the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed the decision. After granting a petition for writ of certiorari, the Supreme Court reversed the decision.\n\nJustice Scalia, writing for the unanimous court (with Justice Thomas concurring), reversed the decision of the district court and remanded the case for further proceedings in accordance with the instruction that a male can be discriminated against by members of the same sex under Title VII.\n\n\"Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore Services\" set the precedent for analyzing same-sex harassment and sexual harassment without motivation of \"sexual desire\" by stating that any discrimination based on sex is actionable if it places the victim in an objectively-disadvantageous working condition, regardless of the gender of the victim or the harasser.\n\nThe application of the \"Oncale\" case has caused some difficulty in the lower federal courts, which have struggled with how to determine whether any particular case of same-sex harassment is \"because of sex.\" In particular, courts have struggled with how to deal with harassment that appears to be based on actual or perceived sexual orientation because employment discrimination based on sexual orientation was not explicitly forbidden by federal law.\n\nIn July 2015, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission determined that employment discrimination based on sexual orientation was illegal under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and used the \"Oncale\" decision as a basis\".\"\n\nBecause it set a precedent regarding harassment \"because of sex,\" \"Oncale v. Sundowner\" has been lauded as a landmark gay rights case, even though all those involved were heterosexual.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "612243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=612243", "title": "Pottery Barn rule", "text": "Pottery Barn rule\n\nThe Pottery Barn rule is an American expression alluding to a policy of \"you break it, you bought it\" or \"you break it, you buy it\" or \"you break it, you remake it\", by which a retail store holds a customer responsible for damage done to merchandise on display. It generally \"encourages customers to be more careful when handling property that's not theirs\". It is an analogy often used in the political or military arena to suggest that if an actor inadvertently creates a problem, the actor is obliged to provide the resources necessary to correct it.\n\nThe phrase \"If you break it, you've bought it\" was reportedly first used in 1952 by a Miami Beach gift shop, who posted the message over their fragile merchandise.\n\nIndividually operated furnishing stores selling fragile goods (art, pottery, and sculptures) often post a \"you break it, you buy it\" sign. According to legal experts, 'If the sign is big enough, and prominently displayed, it can be argued that you were given what lawyers call \"sufficient notice\"' and 'In this case, just by entering the store you agree to the terms of the sign, even if you didn't read it'. In addition, it is the customer's responsibility to be careful in a premises with lots of fragile valuable goods; so careless behavior such as an untied shoelace or horsing around can be regarded as negligent. However the rule is rarely enforced, as the establishment cannot detain a customer for non-payment of damages and instead would have to file a civil suit against that customer. In actual practice even a civil suit is unlikely if the patron lacks the means to pay, such as damaged artwork in a museum that could be worth millions.\n\nIn reality, Pottery Barn—a chain of upscale home furnishing stores in the United States—does not have a \"you break it, you bought it\" policy, but instead writes off broken merchandise as a loss, as do most large American retailers. Legal doctrine also holds that a retailer incurs the risk that merchandise will be destroyed by placing it where customers can handle it and not doing anything to discourage them.\n\n\"New York Times\" columnist Thomas L. Friedman claims to have coined the term, having used the phrase \"the pottery store rule\" in a February 12, 2003, column. He has said he referred to Pottery Barn specifically in speeches. \nAccording to \"Washington Post\" journalist Bob Woodward, U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell cited the rule in the summer of 2002 when warning President George W. Bush of the consequences of his planned military action in Iraq:\n\n\"You are going to be the proud owner of 25 million people,\" he told the president. \"You will own all their hopes, aspirations, and problems. You'll own it all.\" Privately, Powell and Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage called this the Pottery Barn rule: You break it, you own it.\n\nPowell confirmed the quotation on Jonathan Dimbleby's \"Jonathan Dimbleby\" program on April 30, 2006.\n\nDemocratic presidential candidate John Kerry cited the rule and attributed it to Powell in debating Bush on policy on the Iraq war during the first debate of the 2004 Presidential election:\n\nKERRY: Secretary of State Colin Powell told this president [Bush] the Pottery Barn rule: If you break it, you fix it. Now, if you break it, you made a mistake. It's the wrong thing to do. But you own it. And then you've got to fix it and do something with it. Now that's what we have to do. There's no inconsistency. Soldiers know over there that this isn't being done right yet. I'm going to get it right for those soldiers, because it's important to Israel, it's important to America, it's important to the world, it's important to the fight on terror. But I have a plan to do it. He [Bush] doesn't.\n\nPowell denies using the term \"pottery barn rule\", but stated:\n\nIt is said that I used the \"Pottery Barn rule.\" I never did it; [Thomas] Friedman did it… But what I did say…[is that] once you break it, you are going to own it, and we're going to be responsible for 26 million people standing there looking at us. And it's going to suck up a good 40 to 50 percent of the Army for years. And it's going to take all the oxygen out of the political environment…\"\n"}
{"id": "26221267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26221267", "title": "Racial Equality Proposal", "text": "Racial Equality Proposal\n\nThe was an amendment to the treaty under consideration at the 1919 Paris Peace Conference offered by Japan. The racial equality proposal was never intended to have any universal implications. Foreign Minister Uchida stated in June 1919 that the racial equality proposal was not intended to demand universal racial equality of all coloured peoples, but only for members of the League of Nations. Though broadly supported, it did not become part of the Treaty of Versailles, largely because of the opposition of Australia and the United States, two powers with long established de jure and de facto systems of racial discrimination and policies of White Supremacy. Its rejection led to the alienation of Japan from the other great powers and increased nationalism leading up to World War II. The principle of racial equality would be revisited after the Second World War and be incorporated into the United Nations Charter in 1945 as the fundamental principle of international justice. Despite that several countries, including the two aforementioned powers would retain officially sanctioned racial laws and policies for decades afterwards.\n\nJapan attended the Paris Peace Conference of 1919 as one of the five great powers, and as the only non-Western great power. For the Japanese, it was the culmination of a half century of an intensive national effort to create a modern state. The presence of Japan delegates in the Hall of Mirrors at Versailles, signing the Treaty of Versailles on 28 June 1919 was a truly astonishing feat; only fifty years prior, it would have been impossible to imagine the Japan that was reflected in 1919. Japan had become very much part of the international scene.\n\nPrime Minister Hara Takashi had come into power in September 1918, he was determined that Japan should adopt a at the forthcoming peace conference in Versailles. This was largely in consequence to the previous wartime governments under Prime Ministers Ōkuma Shigenobu and Terauchi Masatake following expansionist policies, which had the effect of alienating Japan from the United States and Britain. Hara was determined to support the creation of the League of Nations at the peace conference, in order to steer Japan back to the West. However, there was a not insignificant degree of scepticism expressed towards the League in Japan. Domestically, opinion was divided into those who supported the League and those who opposed it, with the latter being more representative of . Hence, the proposal had the role of appeasing these opponents by making Japan's acceptance of the League conditional on having a racial equality clause inserted into the covenant of the League.\n\nAfter the end of seclusion in the 1850s, Japan signed unequal treaties (the so-called Ansei Treaties) but soon came to demand equal status with the Western powers. Correcting inequality became the most urgent international issue of the Meiji government. In this context, the Japanese delegation to the Paris peace conference proposed the \"racial equality clause\" in the Covenant of the League of Nations. The first draft was presented to the League of Nations Commission on 13 February as an amendment to Article 21:\nIn a speech, the Japanese diplomat Makino Nobuaki stated that during the war men of different races had fought together on the Allied side, leading to say: \"A common bond of sympathy and gratitude has been established to an extent never before experienced.\" The Japanese delegation did not realize the full ramifications of their proposal, since its adoption would have challenged aspects of the established norms of the (Western dominated) international system of the day, which involved the colonial rule over non-white peoples. The intention of the Japanese was to secure equality of their nationals and the equality for members of the League of Nations; however, a universalist meaning and implication of the proposal became attached to it within the delegation, which drove its contentiousness at the conference.\n\nLord Robert Cecil stated after Makino's speech that the Japanese proposal was a very controversial one and he suggested that perhaps the matter was so controversial that it should not be discussed at all. The Greek Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos also suggested that a clause banning religious discrimination should also be removed as that was also a very controversial matter, which led to objections from a Portuguese diplomat who stated that his country had never signed a treaty before that did not mention God, which caused Cecil to remark perhaps this time they would all just have to a take a chance that they would avoid the wrath of the Almighty by not mentioning Him. Cecil removed all references to clauses that forbade racial and religious discrimination from the text of the peace treaty, but the Japanese made it clear that they would seek to have the racial equality clause restored. By this time, the racial equality clause was beginning to draw widespread public attention. Demonstrations in Japan demanded the end of the \"badge of shame\" as policies to exclude Japanese immigration in the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand received much media attention in Japan. In the United States, the racial equality clause received much negative media coverage, especially on the Pacific coast and in the South, though for different reasons. The Chinese delegation that was otherwise at daggers drawn with the Japanese over the question of who was receive the former German colony of Qingdao together with the rest of the German concessions in Shandong province also said that they would support the racial equality clause. However, one Chinese diplomat said at the time that the Shandong question was far more important to his government than the racial equality clause.\n\nAustralian Prime Minister Billy Hughes clarified his opposition and announced at a meeting that \"ninety-five out of one hundred Australians rejected the very idea of equality.\" Hughes had entered politics as a trade unionist, and like most of the Australian working class was very strongly opposed to Asian immigration to Australia (excluding Asian immigration was a popular cause with unions in Canada, the U.S, Australia, and New Zealand in the early 20th century). Hughes believed that accepting the Racial Equality clause would mean the end of the White Australia immigration policy that had been adopted in 1901, writing: \"No Gov't could live for a day in Australia if it tampered with a White Australia\". Hughes stated: \"The position is this-either the Japanese proposal means something or it means nothing: if the former, out with it; if the latter, why have it?\" The New Zealand Prime Minister William Massey also came out in opposition to the Racial Equality Clause, though not as voraciously as Hughes.\n\nThen, Makino Nobuaki, the career diplomat who headed the Japanese delegation, announced at a press conference: \"We are not too proud to fight but we are too proud to accept a place of admitted inferiority in dealing with one or more of the associated nations. We want nothing but simple justice.\" France declared its support for the racial equality proposal as the French position had always been that French language and culture was a \"civilizing\" force open to all regardless of skin color. The British Prime Minister David Lloyd George found himself in an awkward situation: Britain had signed an alliance with Japan in 1902, but at the same time, Lloyd George wanted to hold the British Empire delegation together. The South African Prime Minister General Jan Smuts and the Canadian Prime Minister Sir Robert Borden tried to work out a compromise, visiting Nobuaki and Chinda Sutemi and Hughes, serving as mediators. Borden and Smuts were able to arrange a meeting between Nobuaki, Chinda and Hughes which ended badly. The Japanese diplomats wrote that Hughes was a vulgar \"peasant\", loud and obnoxious while Hughes complained that the Japanese had been \"beslobbering me with genuflexions and obsequious deference\". However, Borden and Smuts were able to persuade Hughes to accept the Racial Equality Clause provided it was declared that the clause did not affect immigration. Nobuaki and Chinda in their turn rejected the compromise. \n\nThe proposal was also problematic for U.S. President Woodrow Wilson, who needed the votes of segregationist Southern Democrats to succeed in getting the votes needed for the U.S. Senate to ratify the treaty. Strong opposition from the British Empire delegations gave him a pretext to reject the proposal.\n\nOn April 11, 1919, the commission held a final session. Makino stated the Japanese plea for human rights and racial equality. British representative Robert Cecil spoke for the British Empire and addressed opposition to the proposal. Italian Prime Minister Vittorio Orlando spoke in favor of the statement on human rights. French Senator Léon Bourgeois urged adoption and stated that it would be impossible to reject this proposal that embodied \"an indisputable principle of justice\".\n\nThe proposal received a majority vote on the day. Eleven of the seventeen delegates present voted in favor of its amendment to the charter, and no negative vote was taken. The votes for the amendment tallied thus:\n\nTotal: 11 Yes\n\n\nThe chairman, President Wilson, overturned it, saying that although the proposal had been approved by a clear majority, that in this particular matter, strong opposition had manifested itself (despite the lack of any actual votes \"against\" the proposal), and that on this issue a unanimous vote would be required. This strong opposition came from the British delegation. French Delegate Ferdinand Larnaude immediately stated \"A majority had voted for the amendment\". The Japanese delegation wanted the transcript to show that a clear majority had been voted for the amendment to the Charter.\n\nThough the proposal itself was compatible with British stance of equality for all subjects as a principle for maintaining imperial unity, there were significant deviations in the stated interests of its Dominions, notably Australia. As it risked undermining the White Australia Policy, then Prime Minister of Australia Billy Hughes and Joseph Cook vigorously opposed the proposal behind the scenes, and so advocated against it through the British delegation. Without the support of its Dominions, the British delegation could not take such a stand on principle. According to Robert Cecil, the delegate representing the British Empire at the Conference, in his diary:\n\nIn the end, Cecil felt that British support for the League of Nations was a more crucial goal. The Japanese media fully covered the progress of the conference, leading to an alienation of Japanese public opinion towards the United States of America, leading to broader conflicts later on. In the United States, racial riots resulted from the American deliberate inaction. Although the exclusion of the racial equality proposal allowed Wilson to keep Southern Democratic allies on his side, this proved insufficient to get the treaty ratified by the United States Senate, and the United States never joined the League of Nations. The mood of the international system changed dramatically by 1945, so that this contentious point of racial equality would be incorporated into the United Nations Charter in 1945 as the fundamental principle of international justice.\n\nAs such, some historians consider that this point could be listed among the many causes of conflict and which led to Japanese actions later on. They argue that the rejection of the racial equality clause proved to be an important factor in turning Japan away from cooperation with the West and toward nationalistic policies. In 1923, the Anglo-Japanese Alliance expired, which gradually resulted in a closer relationship of Japan to Germany and Italy. However, Prussian militarism was already entrenched in the Imperial Japanese Army, many members of the Army had expected Germany to win the war, and Germany had approached Japan for a separate peace in 1916. The rapprochement towards Germany did not occur until the mid-1930s, a time when Germany had greater ties with Nationalist China.\n\nAfter the Nazis gained power in Germany, Japan decided to not expel Jewish refugees from China, Manchuria, and Japan and advocated the political slogan Hakkō ichiu (literally \"eight crown cords, one roof\" i.e. \"all the world under one roof\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38746283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38746283", "title": "Secretary-General's Internal Review Panel on United Nations Action in Sri Lanka", "text": "Secretary-General's Internal Review Panel on United Nations Action in Sri Lanka\n\nSecretary-General's Internal Review Panel (IRP) on United Nations Action in Sri Lanka or Independent Review Panel on Sri Lanka is an internal United Nations review panel headed by Charles Petrie. The Panel produced a report (Internal Review Panel Report or Petrie report) that describes a \"systemic failure\" of United Nations action during the Final Stages of the Sri Lankan Civil War including the withdrawal of UN staff in September 2008 which removed the 'protection by presence' capacity of the United Nations, shortly before months of intense armed conflict that left tens of thousands of dead. The report suggested that more than 70,000 people may have been killed during approximately the last 6 months of the conflict. The report concludes with a series of recommendations on how the United Nations can strengthen its protection of human rights in similar situations in the future. The report was presented to United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki Moon.\n"}
{"id": "590089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=590089", "title": "Sex (book)", "text": "Sex (book)\n\nSex is a coffee table book written by American singer Madonna, with photographs taken by Steven Meisel Studio and film frames shot by Fabien Baron. The book was edited by Glenn O'Brien and was released on October 21, 1992, by Warner Books, Maverick and Callaway Books. Approached with an idea for a book on erotic photographs, Madonna expanded on the idea and conceived the book and its content. Shot in early 1992 in New York City and Miami, the locations ranged from hotels and burlesque theaters, to the streets of Miami. The photographs were stolen before publishing, but were quickly recovered.\n\nThe book had a range of influences, from punk rock to earlier fashion iconoclasts such as Guy Bourdin, Helmut Newton and Robert Mapplethorpe. \"Sex\" has photographs that feature adult content and softcore pornographic as well as simulations of sexual acts, including sadomasochism. Madonna wrote the book as a character named \"Mistress Dita\", inspired by 1930s film actress Dita Parlo. It also includes cameos by actress Isabella Rossellini, rappers Big Daddy Kane and Vanilla Ice, model Naomi Campbell, gay porn star Joey Stefano, actor Udo Kier, socialite Princess Tatiana von Fürstenberg, and nightclub owner Ingrid Casares.\n\nThe packaging for the book is made of aluminium, which was Madonna's idea, and is spiral bound and enclosed in a Mylar sheet. Due to the scandalous nature of the photographs and the media mayhem surrounding it from the initial preview of the book, Madonna did not have to promote \"Sex\", except for a pre-release party and some television specials. Her publishers were extremely apprehensive about the release as well as its commercial potential. \"Sex\" was released alongside her fifth studio album \"Erotica\", which went on sale a day earlier.\n\nThe book was an instant commercial success, managing to sell over 150,000 copies on its first day of release and topping the \"New York Times\" Best Seller list. It was received negatively by both critics and fans of the singer, who felt she had \"gone too far.\" Through the years, however, critical reception towards \"Sex\" has become more positive, with academics deeming it a defining phase in Madonna's career. \"Sex\" is noted for its impact on society and culture as well as on Madonna herself, and is considered a bold, post-feminist work of art. The book has since become one of the most sought-after out-of-print books ever released and still remains the fastest-selling coffee table book of all time.\n\nAccording to Giselle Benatar of \"Entertainment Weekly\", there are two versions of how Madonna came up with the idea for the book. One was that she conceived the idea of an erotic photography book during the shooting of the film \"A League of Their Own\" in the summer of 1991. The second one is that Judith Regan, vice-president and editor-in-chief of Simon & Schuster, flew to Los Angeles in March 1991 to meet with Madonna and her manager Freddy DeMann, armed with a proposal for a similar collection of photo-erotica. The singer had initially verified whether Regan had approached any other celebrities with this concept, as Madonna would be interested to be a part of it only if it was a unique idea. By the end of the meeting Madonna had agreed \"in principle\" to do a book called \"Madonna's Book of Erotica and Sexual Fantasies\". She told Regan that DeMann would call her and work out the details regarding the book. However, Madonna never got back in touch with Regan, who assumed that the singer did not want to proceed with the idea. Madonna's publicist Liz Rosenberg never confirmed nor denied Regan's claim, but according to Benatar, Madonna started working on \"Sex\" before wrapping up \"A League of Their Own\". At first Warner Bros. Records and the executive directors at Time Warner were reluctant to allow Madonna to publish such a book, but finally gave in to the idea. Madonna, however, was forced to sign a contract that forbade her from showing child pornography, bestiality and religious imagery. Not long after signing this agreement Madonna founded Maverick, a multi-media entertainment company. Since by contract she had total artistic control over any of the work released by Maverick, the agreement she signed with Time Warner concerning what not to do in \"Sex\" became obsolete.\nThe \"Sex\" book had a range of influences—from punk rock to earlier fashion iconoclasts like Guy Bourdin and his surrealism, and Helmut Newton, in its stylized, sado-masochistic look. The book was also influenced by Robert Mapplethorpe's infamous three-part \"XYZ\" portfolio, particularly the \"X\" portfolio, with Madonna even having considered the latter as a title during the formative stages of \"Sex\". Photographs from Brassaï's 1933 book \"Paris de nuit\" (\"Paris by Night\") also inspired several of the book's series of images. Madonna changed her mind about the title being \"X\", when Spike Lee's film \"Malcolm X\" began to be promoted (the film was released three weeks after the book). She would go on to tell \"Vogue\" magazine: \"We were gonna call it \"X\" [...] but then the whole thing with the Malcolm X movie started. At first I thought, 'Fuck it, it's a really good symbol and I thought of it first'. But I realized it might be confusing or look like I was copying Spike [Lee]. Besides, Sex is almost as powerful: it's universal, it doesn't need translation - and it's only two letters more than X.\" Warner Bros. commented that \"Sex\" was very difficult to produce, requiring contributions from many different printing and publishing companies. They also stated that in order to generate any profit, the book would have to sell at least 350,000 copies. Madonna hired top-notch talent for the development of the book; she counted on the help of friends from the music, film and fashion industry. The singer hired Fabien Baron as the art director, fashion photographer Steven Meisel, editor Glenn O'Brien, make-up artist Francois Nars and hairstylist Paul Cavaco. Madonna originally wanted the book to be of an oval shape in order to simulate a condom but the printing and manufacturing of such a book would have been too expensive. Meisel would later comment: \"Madonna and I can keep up with each other\" and that \"I'm doing things to make people think too. It's not really to antagonize or to push people's buttons. It's really to present another way of seeing things.\"\n\nThe pictures were taken almost entirely in Super 8 format, and most of the photo shoots took place in New York City and Miami. Locations in New York City included the Hotel Chelsea and Times Square's all-male burlesque Gaiety Theatre (dancers from theatre participated in one of the book's photo sessions), whereas in Miami the majority of the sessions were shot at a house Madonna had purchased just before starting the project, and in several beaches and streets. One morning during the four-day Florida shoot Madonna was prancing around her 14-bedroom house in Miami completely naked, when someone jokingly suggested she go out on the street, then, according to Baron \"the next thing we're in the street\" where allegedly \"cars screeched to a halt, motorists whistled, and one entranced cyclist fell off his bike.\" This was just one of the many crazy episodes that took place during the shooting of the book. According to Baron, during the photo shoots \"[Madonna]'d do something crazy and then we'd come up with something even crazier\". One of the most shocking photographs made for the book, which featured two women in post-punk attire flanking Madonna with one of them holding a knife to Madonna's crotch, was dismissed as it was considered too violent. At some point, while the book was being produced, some of the photographs were stolen, but were quickly recovered by the FBI. According to \"New York\" magazine, there were approximately 80,000 photographs taken for the book, but only a handful made the final cut. The printing of the book was extended for 15 days making the total production process last about eight months.\n\nWrapped and sealed in a polyethylene terephthalate (PET) Mylar bag, \"Sex\" contains 128 pages and is spiral bound with an aluminium cover that has the word \"Sex\" stamped in the middle and a warning label. The front page also shows Madonna against a sky blue backdrop. Three different types of paper were used for the printing of \"Sex\" and the design was overseen by Madonna and Baron & Baron Inc. (consisting of Fabien Baron and the photographer Siung Fat Tjia) who had previously collaborated with the singer designing the cover art of her fifth studio album, \"Erotica\". As this was the first project for Maverick, the packaging was crucial; however Madonna did not have faith in Warner Book's \"mass-market\" publication process. Hence Baron suggested to transfer the packaging job to Nicholas Callaway's bespoke Callaway Editions. Charles Melcher, co-publisher with Callaway for the book, said that they usually did \"exquisite art books, $100 high end, beautiful things\". But it was a challenge for them to process Madonna's ideas into reality. The artist wanted the packaging to be sealed, so that the reader had to tear it up and read. They considered various kinds of clasps before zeroing on the idea of the sealed bag as a reference to a condom package. The metal cover was Madonna's idea, who took the inspiration from the 1979 album, \"Metal Box\" by the band Public Image Ltd. Melcher recollects, \"We were talking about materials for the cover, and we went into her kitchen. [Madonna] pointed at the metal plate at the back of her stove and said, 'I want something like this'. I was very impressed with the way she interacted with her world to source things.\" The company bought about of aluminium, a pound for each book. The designers had to do the front and the back covers, while rolling, stamping and ionizing the metal.\n\nThe book opens up with the introduction: \"Everything you are about to see and read is a fantasy, a dream, pretend\". Throughout \"Sex\", Madonna offers poems, stories, and essays. She also uses the pseudonym \"Mistress Dita\" as a homage to German actress Dita Parlo; her friends in these stories are Bunny, Dex, Stella, Chiclet and Stranger. According to biographer J. Randy Taraborrelli, a big part of the book is read as a letter to a pornographic magazine. As a thank you for recovering the stolen pictures during the making of the book, in the credits of the book Madonna mentioned the FBI for \" ... rescuing photographs that would have made J. Edgar Hoover roll over.\" Madonna also wanted to explore the notion of power in \"Sex\". Melcher said that the artist wanted to talk about \"gentle and hard, soft and violent [in \"Sex\"]. She was playing out all those elements in her book. That was reflected in the materials: uncoated, soft paper on the inside and hard metal coating on the outside.\"\n\nJust like the text—which was mostly written on top of photographs—the photographs on the book are highly sexual and depict nudity, simulations of sexual acts, bondage, homosexuality and analingus, with accessories such as knives, whips, masks and chains; however, full intercourse is never shown. Aside from unknown models, featured in the book are actress Isabella Rossellini, rappers Big Daddy Kane and Madonna's then boyfriend Vanilla Ice, model Naomi Campbell, gay porn star Joey Stefano, actor Udo Kier, socialite Princess Tatiana von Fürstenberg, and nightclub owner Ingrid Casares; however the heterosexual photos in the book involve only Madonna and Vanilla Ice. Madonna herself is featured partially or completely naked. One of the book's most famous photographs shows Madonna hitchhiking completely naked in Miami. The book also reflects a great part on Dita's perspective towards her own sexuality. Dita writes in \"Sex\" that her \"pussy\" is a temple of learning and that exposing it, is really a homage to it (\"It's hard to describe it smells like a baby to me fresh and full of life. I love my pussy, it is the complete summation of my life\"). \"Sex\" contains statements like \"ass fucking is the most pleasurable way to get fucked and it hurts the most too\". Others include \"[t]here is something comforting about being tied up. Like when you were a baby and your mother strapped you in the car seat. She wanted you to be safe. It was an act of love\" and \"I wouldn't want a penis. It would be like having a third leg. it seems like a contraption that would get in the way. I think I have a dick in my brain\". In \"Sex\", Dita also pointed out that \"A lot of people are afraid to say what they want. That's why they don't get what they want\".\n\nThe initial preview of the book was met with a huge amount of controversy, as it showed a nude Madonna wearing a rabbit's tail, shaving the pubic hair of a naked man, and cavorting outdoors with a dog, suggesting bestiality. The Vatican urged its people to boycott the release, saying that it was \"morally intolerable\". Indian customs officials said that the book offended the country's public morality. The Press Trust of India (PTI), India's domestic news agency, quoted a top customs official as saying the book would be seized under a section of the Customs Act prohibiting entry of indecent literature. Citizens of Alexandria, Louisiana filed a complaint with the city's police department on behalf of a group called the Rapides Parish Chapter of American Family Association, claiming that it violated Louisiana's anti-obscenity laws. South US Baptists did not want their Bibles coming off the same printing presses as Madonna's \"Sex\" and threatened to stop doing business with a Chicago printer. The Nashville-based Baptist Sunday School Board, a division of the Southern Baptist Convention, reviewed their $2.1 million ($ in dollars) printing contract with R.R. Donnelley & Sons. Board President James Draper said he was infuriated that Donnelley also printed \"such an obscene book\". \"Entertainment Tonight\" reported that Madonna herself had initiated the mayhem with the explicit content in the music video for \"Erotica\", walking bare breasted at designer Jean Paul Gaultier's fashion show and posing nude in \"Vanity Fair\" magazine. A writer for \"The Sacramento Bee\" said that since the press wanted \"controversy\", Madonna was willing to provide them \"fodder\" with her \"antiques\".\nMadonna then said she was \"doing this to liberate America — free us all of our hang-ups\". She told \"Spin\" magazine \"We live in a very repressed society, and I deal with erotic themes. The point I try to make is: Why should we feel ashamed of our sexuality?\". Later she revealed that \"[This book] does not condone unsafe sexual practices\". Nicholas Callaway from Callaway Arts & Entertainment said that the book was \"inevitably going to be controversial. The book explores every aspect of sexual fantasy. It's hard to calculate the effect, [but], \"Sex\" should be considered 'art'\". Originally it was rumored that Time Warner was nervous about the release of the book; however, in an interview with \"Vanity Fair\", William Sarnoff, president of Warner Books, said he felt that Madonna \"should pursue all avenues of creativity as she defines it\". The Warner company had also previously assured that they would make sure \"Sex\" reached its main target audience and also reminded that the book was safely wrapped in a Mylar bag to prevent in-store peeping and contained a warning label. Michael Kilian of the \"Chicago Tribune\" published an article on October 7, 1992, regarding the then upcoming release of \"Sex\": \"Prepare thyself, [...], The mega-event of the millennium is to occur in precisely two weeks. It's an event far more mega than the November election, the collapse of communism or even the crowning of Leanza Cornett as the new Miss America.\" Kilian also described it as the \"personal sexual fantasy picture book in all Christendom, then it goes far beyond all previous 'truly twisted' personal sexual fantasy picture books—perhaps beyond all imagining what such a book could be\".\n\nOn October 15, Madonna threw a pre-release party at New York City's Industria Superstudio, and signed all the invitations under her \"Sex\" alter ego \"Dita\". During the party, Madonna showed up dressed as Little Bo Peep and even carried with her a stuffed toy lamb. Madonna's publicist Liz Rosenberg showed concern at first due to \"what the parents of America's impressionable teens will soon be thinking\" but later said that it \"all depends on your idea of lovemaking, which in Madonna's case, should give new meaning to the word erotic\". Both Waldenbooks and Barnes & Noble prepared corporate statements that the managers could share with customers who are offended by \"Sex\". (Both statements defended the right of bookstores to provide \"diversity and choice\" to customers and say censorship is not the role of bookstores.) Many book stores, too, stated that the book would not be sold to anyone under 18 and that it would be for display only behind the cash register. Bookstore owner David Epstein stated that \"The feeling of most people who have ordered the book is that Madonna is something special, that this is cutting-edge art, [...], they're not the kind of people who are buying it because it's smut and dirty pictures. People are interested in it as art.\"\n\n\"Sex\" was finally released on October 21, 1992 – one day after Madonna's fifth studio album \"Erotica\" – by editorials Callaway and Warner Books; it was the first work released by Madonna's company Maverick. A comic book titled \"Dita in The Chelsea Girl\" was included in the book. Also included was a promotional single titled \"Erotic\" with the CD packaging representing a condom wrapper. The track \"Erotic\" featured a stripped-down arrangement of the song \"Erotica\" that offered an alternate vocal take not used in the album version. With an initial print run of one million copies of the first edition in five continents and in five languages, the price of the book was $50 ($ in dollars) at retail, making sex an \"expensive visual book\". Nevertheless, the book managed to break records regarding the number of copies pre-ordered before the release. Nicholas Callaway pointed out that the book was an unprecedented hit, because the print run of an average art book ranges between 5 and 10,000 units. He described it as \"the largest initial release of any illustrated book in publishing history\".\n\nDue to the high scandal and controversy surrounding the book, there was not really any need for Madonna to promote it; however, one of the few promotions for the book Madonna did, was appearing on the cover of the October edition of \"Vogue\", where she appeared dressed in \"Hippie trip\" fashion. These photographs were taken by Meisel. After the book was released, on October 22, 1992, MTV aired a special called \"The Day in Madonna\", hosted by Kurt Loder (the title of this special was a pun of the title of the channel's daily show \"The Day in Rock\"), which profiled the release of Madonna's \"Sex\" and her album \"Erotica\", even taking the book to the streets to allow people, including a sex therapist and group of real-life New York City dominatrices, to view it. MTV also interviewed many people who had viewed the book on the day of its release at the HMV music store in New York City. In celebration of the release of the book, the store held a Madonna look-alike contest and set up a booth where people could view the book for one dollar a minute, with all of the proceeds going to Lifebeat, the music industry organization founded to help fund AIDS research.\n\nThe book received negative reaction from critics, conservative and feminist anti-porn groups, due to its sexually explicit photographs which many characterized as hardcore pornography. Taraborrelli opined that much of the book appears surprising and not shocking. He derided the whole concept as childish and impetuous rather than an adult book. According to him, though Madonna insisted that she was trying to demystify sexuality altogether, the author believed she just wanted to publish pornographic text and pictures and get away with it. \"She was being a brat, not a revolutionary\", the author concluded. Author Lucy O'Brien declared that the book was a bold, harrowing exercise in frustration, and despite Madonna's attempt at invincibility, the book appeared as \"a curious act of self-destruction\". \"The overwhelming effect of the book is numbing,\" stated Anthony DeCurtis of \"Rolling Stone\". \"The images are derivative, and Madonna herself seems far too eager to shock; that, not even prurient arousal, seems the ideal response the book tirelessly seeks. The potency of \"Sex\"'s subject matter is dissipated by Madonna and Meisel's self-congratulatory – and silly – sense of their own 'bravery,' as if their naughty games were somehow revolutionary.\"\n\nRoger Catlin from the \"Hartford Courant\" said that the passages from the book were \"too dirty to quote here, even the funny ones\". \"The Daily Beast\" said that \"the book is neither groundbreaking (save that it features a major star) nor particularly sexy [...] \"Sex\" is convincing only when it's playful, as when she appears nude in a Miami pizzeria, chewing a slice while a baffled customer looks on. Elsewhere, she's simply undressed with no place to go\". Richard Harrington from \"The Washington Post\" gave the book a mixed review by saying: \"Is \"Sex\" shocking? not really. Mostly because it's Madonna, and somehow we've come to expect this from her. Is \"Sex\" boring? surprisingly, yes\". During her review of the book, British author Zoë Heller from \"The Independent\" wrote that it was \"the women who once saw Madonna as a witty feminist role model who have been most alarmist about her latest pornographic incarnation\" and that \"previously, they say, Madonna played with traditional images of feminine sexuality in a subversive, 'empowering' way. But now, with sado-masochism and rape fantasies, she has gone too far.\" Calvin Tomkins, author and art critic for \"The New Yorker\", wrote that \"unfortunately, the book is going to be mistaken for pornography\". \"Vanity Fair\" deemed it \"the dirtiest coffee table book to ever be published\". Caryn James from \"The New York Times\" was negative in her review stating that \"There is plenty here to offend the meek (whips and chains), the self-righteous (gay men and lesbians), not to mention the tasteful (a tacky and cluttered art design)\". Vicki Goldberg from the same newspaper was also dismissive of the photography of the book saying that \"Unfortunately, not many of the images are very good photographically. Many are just pictures, or just porn\". Writing for \"Spin\" magazine, Bob Guccione, Jr. gave the book a particularly unfavorable review:\n\nDespite all the controversy and negative backlash, which included the book being banned in Japan shortly after its release, \"Sex\" proved to be a commercial success, selling 150,000 copies on its release day in the United States alone. Hundreds of copies of the book were pre-ordered, prompting book sellers to say that \"Sex\" was \"shattering their sales records for advance purchases\". A week later, the book's sales exceeded the 500,000 units and eventually topped \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list. Giselle Benatar wrote in her article \"Sex & Money\": \"This isn't the publishing event of the year, it's the publishing event of the century.\" A day earlier, Tyra Braden from \"The Morning Call\" wrote that she and some friends concluded that the book \"might become a collector's item a few years down the road\". \"Sex\" went on to sell 1.5 million copies worldwide.\n\nDubbed at the time as the \"Queen of obscene\", Madonna and the \"Sex\" era is considered by many as her most controversial and transgressive period. The book, widely panned by the press, is regarded as one of the factors that shaped the social reaction and critique towards Madonna during the early 1990s. Her fifth studio album \"Erotica\" was affected by the negative press surrounding the book. In March 1993, \"Spin\" magazine wrote an article praising the book, but months later in Mexico, social communicologist Nino Canún dedicated an episode of his morning talk show \"¿Y usted qué opina?\" (English: \"So what's your opinion?\"), to Madonna. Some members of the audience, among them a priest, presented their arguments as to why \"this morally clueless singer shouldn't be allowed to perform in the country\", making reference to The Girlie Show World Tour, which was set to visit Mexico. Later, during the concert, Madonna wore a \"charro\" sombrero and simulated an orgy with her dancers onstage, as a response to these comments. Continuing her provocative imagery, Madonna starred in the erotic thriller \"Body of Evidence\", which featured the singer fully nude and in scenes engaged in simulated sexual acts. In March 1994, Madonna appeared as a guest on \"Late Show with David Letterman\", using profanity that was required to be censored on television and handing Letterman a pair of her underwear and asking him to smell it. The releases of her sexually explicit film, album and book, and the aggressive appearance on Letterman all made critics regard Madonna as a sexual renegade. She faced strong negative publicity from critics and fans, who commented that \"she had gone too far\" and that her career was over. Later, on the song \"Human Nature\", from her sixth studio album \"Bedtime Stories\" (1994), Madonna addressed the public backlash the book was still receiving, particularly with the lines \"Did I say something wrong? Oops, I didn't know I couldn't talk about sex. I must have been crazy,\" as well as the line \"What was I thinking?\".\n\nMadonna herself would later say: \"I wouldn't say I regret it. I've made mistakes and learned from them. Most people want to hear me say that I regret publishing my \"Sex\" book. I don't. The problem was releasing my \"Erotica\" album at the same time. I love that album and it got overlooked.\" However, author Andy Koopmans in his book \"Madonna\" (2002) would comment that the singer regretted both publishing \"Sex\" and recording \"Erotica\" and that the book \"had affected everything she did later\". It was not until 2003 that Madonna would once again declare that she regretted nothing; \"I'm not apologizing in any shape or form [...] I was interested in pushing buttons and being rebellious and being mischievous and trying to bend the rules. There was a lot of irony in the \"Sex\" book and I am poking fun at a lot of things and I am being kind of silly and adolescent and I am being very f you, if a man can do it, I can do it.\" A year earlier on 2002, Naomi Campbell confessed to \"have a lot of respect for Madonna being bold enough to come out and do a book on sex. I've never reneged on that\". However, in 2009, rapper Vanilla Ice, who was Madonna's boyfriend at the time of the book's creation, confessed to not being happy with the book once he saw it. \"My friends were like, 'Dude, that's cool man', but I was like, 'I'm dating her, it's not cool to see your girlfriend with all these other people' [...] It kinda ruined the whole thing. I wonder what her kids think of that book? Here she is writing kids' books now but they're going to see it and go, 'Mommy, what were you thinking?'\" Another of the book's models, actress Isabella Rossellini, told \"Out\" magazine that she regretted her participation on the book; \"I don't think the book worked, even though the photos were extraordinary, and some of them quite memorable. I think there was a little bit of a moralistic sort of 'I'll teach you how to be free!' – and that bothered the hell out of me.\"\n\nLater reviews towards \"Sex\" have become more positive. The authors of \"The Porning of America: The Rise of Porn Culture, What It Means, and Where We Go from Here\" (2008) have commented that \"the book is particularly interesting in the way that, like many of Madonna's works, it portrays sex in terms of domination and power\", whereas Jane Raphaely, editor-in-chief of \"Cosmopolitan\" praised Madonna's \"liberated behavior on \"Sex\" [...] the fact that she takes all forms of pornography and systematically demystifies it by putting it under her control\", in an article in 1996. Brian McNair, author of \"Striptease Culture: Sex, Media and the Democratisation of Desire\" (2002) praised this period of Madonna's career, saying that she had \"porno elegance\" and that \"\"Sex\" is a cultural phenomenon of global proportions and thanks to this Madonna established her iconic status and cultural influence\". Priya Elan from \"The Guardian\", wrote: \"That the \"Sex\" book came after a record-breaking album and tour felt like a shrinkwrapped curve ball. But Madge was expressing something unique\". Elan felt that the book was part of a \"slower reveal that began with confessional tracks such as 'Oh Father' (from 1989's \"Like a Prayer\") and continued with the many scenes of narcissism captured in [the documentary] \"In Bed With Madonna\"\".\n\n\"Sex\" is now considered a bold, post-feminist, work of art, besides being labeled a \"cultural book\". Martin Amis from \"The Observer\" wrote an essay discussing the book's cultural meaning. Critical theorist Douglas Kellner affirmed that with \"Sex\" \"Madonna became herself, an artifact of pop culture\". French academic writer Georges Claude Guilbert (author of three books about Madonna) described \"Sex\" as one of the most successful publicity stunts in history whereas Russell W. Belk, author of \"Handbook of Qualitative Research Methods in Marketing\", mentioned that the book is a quality product in marketing. In 1992, Madonna had generated more than US$500 million ($ in dollars) to Time Warner in sales of both albums and the \"Sex\" book, despite the negative feedback. However, Taraborrelli commented in his book, \"\", that those \"who knew Madonna well at that time, knew what was really going on with her: the \"Sex\" book—and the outrageous antics that preceded it and would follow it—was really just something she used as a barrier between her and the rest of the world.\" For years it had seemed to Madonna that both her personal and professional life was extremely scrutinized by the public and media, and although she had started this scrutinizing by her provocative works, she was tired of it. Being vexed at this interest in her personal life, Madonna fought back by creating the persona of a renegade, something so outrageous as to defy explanation, something found objectionable by most people. Taraborrelli said that in Madonna's view, \"she had no other way of fighting back\". \"The Boston Globe\"s Matthew Gilbert analyzed the singer's provocative attempt in an article published in the newspaper:\n\nAccording to some writers, \"Sex\" also helped Madonna make a name in the porn industry, and earned her the title of S&M's first cultural ambassador and was praised for recreating \"porn-chic\". Humberto Quiroga Lavié pointed out that it was the fact that \"Sex\" was considered pornographic that helped it become a bestseller. Steve Bachmann, on his book \"Simulating Sex: Aesthetic Representations of Erotic Activity\" pointed out that \"perhaps one of the most interesting aspects of Madonna's sexual phenomenon is the extent to which her book marked a new threshold in the pornographic franchise\". McNair wrote in his book that \"\"Sex\" brought out the personal underground to the surface of pop culture\". London art critic Sarah Kent wrote in \"Time Out\" magazine that the timing of \"Sex\" was \"impeccable. Obsessions about the human body was in vogue, with Madonna's book as well as artist Andres Serrano's \"cumming shots\" and Jeff Koons' \"The Jeff Koons Handbook\", the latter portrayed fairytale pictures of the artist having sex with his pornographic actor wife, Cicciolina.\n\n\"Sex\" has also become an important book in the LGBT community. Ben Shapiro, author of \"Porn Generation: How Social Liberalism Is Corrupting Our Future\", wrote that due to its iconic status \"\"Sex\" adorns the coffee tables of hundreds of gay men and sperm banks\". Mark Blankenship, from the LGBT-oriented website New Now Next stated that \"literature changed forever\" with the publishing of \"Sex\". Madonna's portrayal of lesbian love scenes in the book sparked debates about her own sexual orientation. This was an adjunct to the singer's public relationship with comedian Sandra Bernhard, with whom she cavorted around, visiting lesbian night-clubs as well as partying. The LGBT community felt it was an important portrayal for them. They debated whether Madonna was \"ripping\" them off for publicity. As Carolin Grace from \"Diva\" magazine noted: \"Madonna became meaningful in early nineties, when \"Sex\" came out, and at that point lesbian culture was really changing.\" She noted how women were coming out about their sexuality and the book's handling of the taboo issue were \"a legacy, our contribution to the show. The lesbian sub-cultural references borrowed by Madonna aren't our only possessions.\" O'Brien argues in her book \"\", that the book had a confusing philosophy. According to the female critics, who pointed out the vacuousness of Madonna's remarks about porn and abuse, the singer did not have a correct idea that behind these fantasies the \"reality is too hard for her to endure\", referring to the daily hustles that women have to face at red light districts and brothels. The author felt that despite the courageous premise of genuine exploration of queer sex, the book crossed over into pornography and a wrong portrayal for the community, while being flippant and commercial. She drew an example of the death of pornographic actor Joey Stefano, one of the models of the book, from drug overdose. Stefano had been thrilled to be a part of the book, but was underpaid. Once Madonna and her team were done with the shoot, \"they packed up and left the Gaiety... They left behind the mundane reality and the boys who have to deal with it seven days a week.\"\n\n\"Sex\" has also become an object of modern culture references. American performance artist Ann Magnuson, who had worked with Madonna on the 1985 film \"Desperately Seeking Susan\", released a parody of the book's photo sessions, where she simulated sex with a giant stuffed bear. In 2010, writer-performer Greg Scarnici released a book parody of \"Sex\", titled \"Sex in Drag\", which featured over 70 parodied images from the book. In a deleted scene from a 1993 episode (\"Krusty Gets Kancelled\") of the animated sitcom \"The Simpsons\", aired as part of \"The Simpsons 138th Episode Spectacular\", Krusty the Clown attempts to market a book extremely similar to \"Sex\" as a means of resolving his financial woes. Krusty is seen in a suggestive pose on the front cover. Unlike Madonna, however, Krusty apparently never appeared fully nude, as he quickly claimed that he used a body double.\n\nIn 2008, Madonna's look and attire she wore to the \"Sex\" pre-release party was ranked by \"People\" magazine as one of her \"50 Looks We Can't Forget\". In April 2012, a nude picture of Madonna taken by Meisel was put up for sale. The picture, an outtake from the book, features a naked Madonna lying on a bed, sporting bleach-blonde hair and dark eye make-up, smoking a cigarette and partially covered by a sheet. The picture was bought by an unnamed collector for almost US$24,000 ($ in dollars). In 2011, according to the BookFinder.com, \"Sex\" was the most requested out-of-circulation publication and still remains the best-selling coffee table book. In 2015, the book was included on \"Rolling Stone\"s list of \"20 Great Moments in Rock Star Nudity\". Author Keith Harris wrote: \"No celebrity had ever commanded control over her own naked image so audaciously as Madonna in [\"Sex\"]\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30554246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30554246", "title": "Sindhu Darshan Festival", "text": "Sindhu Darshan Festival\n\nSindhu Darshan Festival is a festival of India held every year on full moon day (on Guru Purnima) in June. It is held at Leh, in Ladakh District of Jammu & Kashmir. It stretches for three days. It was first started in the October, 1997 and continues to be held every year since then, attracting large number of foreign and domestic tourists.\n\nThe Sindhu Darshan Festival is a celebration of River Sindhu, also known as the Indus Valley Civilisation. The main reason behind the celebration of Sindhu Darshan Festival is to endorse the Indus River (Sindhu River) as an icon of the communal harmony and unity of India. The Bollywood film Dil Se was shot during the first Sindhi Darshan Festival.\n\nLal Krishna Advani and Tarun Vijay a veteran journalist re-discovered the Sindhu river flowing through Ladakh, when they visited Leh in January 1996. Vijay conceived the idea of a festival on its banks as it has given the identity to India as the names India, Indian, Hindu and Hindustan are derived from indus and Sindhu. Since then it has been attracting people from all walks of life, castes, reliogions and places specially becoming a pilgrimage for Hindu Sindhis, who in pre-partition days, used to worship her ( in Sindh ), now in Pakistan. For, the purpose that, people of India, know the importance of Sindhu River, Lal Krishna Advani, in 1996, himself a Sindhi, visited Choglamsar ( 8 km from Leh ) and started Sindhu Darshan Abhiyan, with handful of Sindhis.\n\nThe first time this event was held in form of \"Sindhu Darshan Festival\" was in October, 1997.\n\nLater on in year 2000, on 7 June, Sindhu Darshan Festival was held with much pomp and show and was inaugurated by Atal Bihari Vajpayee, then the Prime Minister of India at Shey (15 km away from Leh).The Prime Minister laid the foundation stone of the Sindhu Cultural Center and also inaugurated the new office complex of Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council.\n\nThe Prime Minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, said \"Some people queried about existence of Sindhu in India as described in our national anthem but little did they know that it flows from our soil in Ladakh.\" He further added : \"Sindhu symbolised 5,000 years ethos of Indian civilization and its re-discovery will strengthen emotional integration of country.\" and quoted hymn from Rig Veda: \"Sindhu it might surpasses all the streams that flow - His roar is lifted up to heaven above the earth, he puts forth endless vigour with a flash of light, even as cow with milk rush to their calves, so other rivers roar in to Sindhu. As warrior king leads other warriors, so does Sindhu lead other rivers. Rich in good steed is Sindhu, rich in gold, nobly fashioned rich in ample wealth.\"\n\nThe occasion, was also marked by immersion of waters from Brahmaputra brought by Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister, Mukut Mithi. Brahmputra & Sindhu, both rivers rise from same source in Mansarovar.\n\nEvery year, a large number of participants from different parts of the country participate in Sindhu Darshan Festival. They bring water from the river of their own state in earthenware pots and immerse these pots in the Sindhu River.\n\nThe first day of the Sindhu Darshan Festival witnesses a reception ceremony for the participants, organized on the banks of Sindhu at Shey. This reception ceremony is conducted by a joint association of committees of various religious groups ( Buddhist, Shia, Sunni, Christian, Hindu and Sikh ) namely, Ladakh Buddhist Association, Shia Majlis, Sunni Anjuman, Christian Moravian Church, Hindu Trust and Sikh Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee, to promote national integrity. As a part of the ritual, fifty senior Lamas conduct a prayer on the banks of the river. A series of cultural programs is also presented by the artists from various states of the country. A sightseeing tour is organised for the participants and the day comes to an end with a bonfire at night. After the cultural programmes and sightseeing trip, a Puja is organized on the second day of the Sindhu Darshan Festival. On the third day, the participants get ready for the departure. Leh is popular with tourists, who visit the hill town to be a part of this grand celebrations.\n\nThe Postal Department of Government of India issued a postage stamp depicting Sindhu Darshan Festival on 28 July 1999. The project 'Sindhu Darshan', was started to focus attention on the heritage of the ancient Indian Civilization and Culture that 'Sindhu' symbolizes. It aims to celebrate the Sindhu as a symbol of this country's ethnic diversity and to promote communal harmony. Further, attention is sought to be focused on cultural and topographical beauty of the landscape of Ladakh. These aspects are sought to be blended in the design of the First Day Cover which also carries inscription of the hymn 'mantra', chanted by Buddhists in the area, a prayer in praise of God. The stamp depicts a landscape in the upper reaches of the Sindhu with an inset of the 'Vrishabha' (bull) seal of the Indus Valley Civilization and a line, from the 'Rig Veda', describing the Sindhu.\n"}
{"id": "47393422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47393422", "title": "Sunčane Skale 2000", "text": "Sunčane Skale 2000\n\nSunčane Skale 2000 is the sixth edition of Sunčane Skale, an annual pop festival held in Montenegro.\n"}
{"id": "31220183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31220183", "title": "Supertoon", "text": "Supertoon\n\nSupertoon (stylized as SUPERTOON) is an international animation festival in Šibenik, Croatia. In 2017 it took place from 16 to 21 July.\n\nThe purpose of the festival is to systematically monitor and provide an insight into recent Croatian and world short-meter animation film and video production through a range of competition and out-of-competition programmes. An additional aim is to create a platform for a direct communication and exchange of ideas and experiences for all festival participants and guests.\n\nThe competition programme is divided into three categories: \n\nIn addition to competition categories, the Supertoon programme includes panoramas, retrospectives and theme screenings, exhibitions, workshops and lectures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58634655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58634655", "title": "Telluride Horror Show", "text": "Telluride Horror Show\n\nThe Telluride Horror Show is a film festival that takes place in the mountain resort town of Telluride, Colorado. \n\nOver a three day weekend each mid-October, the festival exhibits horror, dark fantasy films, sci-fi films, and thriller films from around the world and attendees from all over the United States.\n\nFounded in 2010, the Telluride Horror Show is Colorado's first and longest-running genre film festival.\n\nFilms are shown in three theaters: the Palm, the Nugget Theater, and the historic Sheridan Opera House.\n\nAdditional events include the Creepy Campfire Tales and book signing with an established author from the horror genre, the Pig Roast, the I Scream Social, the Killer Karaoke Party, and the Dread Central Horror Trivia competition.<ref>\n"}
{"id": "25265223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25265223", "title": "Temple Bar TradFest", "text": "Temple Bar TradFest\n\nTemple Bar TradFest is an annual music and culture festival that takes place in late January in Dublin, Ireland. It is organised by the Temple Bar Company, a not-for-profit organisation who work on behalf of businesses in the cultural quarter of Temple Bar, Dublin, Ireland.\nThe festival celebrates traditional Irish and folk music and cultural offerings.\nThe five-day festival attracted almost 25,000 visitors in 2017 and has become a draw for international audiences travelling from the US, UK and Europe. \nIt is one of Ireland’s few independent and not-for-profit festivals, with ticket sales kept to a minimum price to ensure value for money for those attending. \nThe festival has carved out a niche in attracting some of the biggest names internationally in folk and traditional Irish music. Billy Bragg, Donovan, Mary Chapin Carpenter, Maria McKee, Eddie Reader, Sarah Jarosz, Ralph McTell, Gilbert O’Sullivan and The Levellers have headlined at the festival.\nIreland’s best known troubadours and balladeers have graced the festival line up including: Glen Hansard; Aoife O’Donovan; Damien Dempsey; Declan O’Rourke; Paul Brady; Mundy; Mick Flannery; Maura O’Connell; and Finbar Furey.\nIreland’s top traditional Irish music groups and artists have performed at TradFest including: The Fureys; The Dublin Legends; Clannad; Altan; Beoga, who feature on Ed Sheeran’s Galway Girl; Martin Hayes; Kila; and Stockton’s Wing.\nThe thirteenth edition of the festival will take place on the 24th until the 28th of January 2018. More information on Temple Bar TradFest can be found on the official website, Temple Bar Trad .\n\nSince its inception in 2005 by the Temple Bar Company, TradFest has expanded its offering to reflect the festival’s ethos of ‘Trad without Frontiers’. This allows for an elaborate and varied line-up at each festival that incorporates myriad musical forms including: Celtic; folk; folk rock; nu folk; world music; and traditional Irish music.\nThe festival’s initial incentive was to provide a musical interlude for Irish and international visitors in January, a month void of any festival events until the formation of TradFest. Temple Bar is a small area in Dublin’s City Centre and is known as the capital’s Cultural Quarter because of its abundance of public houses, street entertainment, art galleries and photography gallery.\n\nFormer Minister for Environment, Noel Dempsey , is Chairman of the Temple Bar Company. Martin Harte is the company’s CEO and oversees the organization of TradFest annually. Stephen Rea, the Irish actor, is a patron of the festival. Rea was nominated an Academy Award for his role in the Neil Jordan directed 1992 box office hit, The Crying Game. Kieran Hanrahan is the festival’s programme director . The Irish radio host and musician presents Ceílí House, a weekly show on RTÉ Radio 1.\n\nSince it formed TradFest uses some of Dublin’s landmark buildings to host its concerts. This allows the event to maintain an independence in the way it is organised and the low price of tickets sales. Venues include: City Hall; The House of Lords ; St Michan’s ; St Werburgh’s ; St Patrick’s Cathedral; and Christchurch .\n\nThe festival prides itself on the promotion and support of new and up-and-coming acts as well as established names in the world of folk and traditional Irish music.\nSeveral promotional events have played a part in TradFest reaching an international audience. The Kilfenora Céilí Band performed a free concert on top of the hotel belonging to U2, The Clarence Hotel. It was the same venue where U2 performed to promote their song, Beautiful Day. Beoga also did a naked photo shoot for TradFest. The group have gone on to fame for their part in Ed Sheeran’s Galway Girl and performed on the Pyramid Stage at Glastonbury in 2017.\nSome of the most notable concerts at TradFest include a Clannad reunion at Christchurch cathedral (27th, 28th and 29 January 2011). The Dubliners celebrated their 50th anniversary at Christchurch Cathedral in 2012, just three months before Barney McKenna passed away. \nThe festival has always supported contemporary commissions including two by renowned composer Lorcan McMathuna which celebrate the Battle of Clontarf and the 1916 Rising. New works by singer songwriter Declan O’Rourke have been showcased at TradFest (2014).\n\nAltan, Aoife O'Donovan, Bellowhead, Beoga, Billy Bragg, Caoimhín Ó Raghallaigh, Cara Dillon, Carlos Núñez Muñoz, Clannad, Damien Dempsey, Declan O'Rourke, Donovan, Dougie MacLean, Duke Special, Eddi Reader, Eleanor McEvoy, Fairport Convention, Finbar Furey, Frances Black, Frankie Gavin, Gilbert O'Sullivan, Glen Hansard, Hazel O'Connor, Hothouse Flowers, Julie Fowlis, Kíla, Levellers, Lynched, Maria McKee, Martin & Eliza Carthy, Martin Hayes, Maura O'Connell, Mick Flannery, Mundy, Paddy Keenan, Paul Brady, Ralph McTell, Sarah Jarosz, Seth Lakeman, Sharon Shannon, Stockton's Wing, Sweeney's Men, Teddy Thompson, The Dubliners, The Fureys, The Oysterband, The Undertones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3936759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3936759", "title": "Víkurfréttir", "text": "Víkurfréttir\n\nVíkurfréttir is the main newspaper of the Icelandic town of Keflavík.\n\nThe newspaper was founded in Southern Peninsula in August 1980. In 1983, it was bought by the current owner, Páll Ketilsson. It is a weekly but was for a while published twice a week.\n\n"}
{"id": "14985235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14985235", "title": "World Sufi Festival", "text": "World Sufi Festival\n\nThe World Sufi Festival is a yearly festival that takes place in Glasgow, Scotland. It brings together performers and artists from around the world. \n\nThe festival features a bazaar, food samples, art, fashion, film, music, and poetry, encompassing both the traditional and modern around the Sufi theme. Sufi arts, culture and heritage are at the heart of the programme. Workshops and presentations are also given with discussions of Sufi themes.\n\nThe festival aims to capture and project the messages and spirit of Sufism.\n\nIt is organised by the Association of Poetry and Music Glasgow.\n\n"}
