{"id": "10952780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10952780", "title": "Academy of the Arabic Language in Cairo", "text": "Academy of the Arabic Language in Cairo\n\nThe Academy of the Arabic Language in Cairo () is an academy in Cairo founded in 1934 in order to develop and regulate the Arabic language in The Republic of Egypt.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3394085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3394085", "title": "Association of Christian Schools International", "text": "Association of Christian Schools International\n\nThe Association of Christian Schools International (ACSI) is an association of evangelical Protestant Christian schools.\n\nACSI is a Protestant association for Christian schools. Its stated mission is to strengthen Christian schools and equip Christian educators worldwide as they prepare students academically and inspire them to become devoted followers of Jesus Christ. It supports the belief that Scripture is the revealed Word of God and should be taught as truth.\n\nThe association offers multiple services including accreditation for early-education programs and primary and secondary schools, certification, curriculum, legal/legislative services, and urban school services.\n\nBecause ACSI does not accredit colleges or universities, it is not recognized as an accreditor of higher education institutions by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation or the United States Department of Education. However, the organization allows institutions of higher learning to be members. In 1994 ACSI's primary school and secondary school programs became officially recognized by the National Council for Private School Accreditation (NCPSA). The United States Department of Education does not recognize or certify agencies for the accreditation of primary and secondary schools, including regional accrediting agencies.\n\nACSI was founded in 1978 through the merger of three associations: The National Christian School Education Association; The Ohio Association of Christian Schools; and the Western Association of Christian Schools. Soon after the new association formed, several other Christian school associations joined ACSI: The Southeast Association of Christian Schools; the Association of Teachers of Christian Schools (Midwest); the Great Plains Association of Christian Schools; and the Texas Association of Christian Schools.\n\nACSI was first headquartered in La Habra, California, and moved to its larger headquarters in Colorado Springs, Colorado, in 1994. Today, in addition to the headquarters facility, ACSI has 28 regional offices worldwide and serves 23,400 member schools in more than 100 countries. ACSI is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization governed by a 36-member Executive Board elected by member schools.\n\nIn spring 2006 the Association of Christian Schools International sued the University of California system alleging that the rejection of several Christian science courses was \"viewpoint discrimination\" which violated the constitutional rights of applicants from Christian schools whose high school coursework is deemed inadequate preparation for college. The lawsuit was brought by the parents of six children who had not been rejected from the university. In August 2006, the case \"Association of Christian Schools International v. Roman Stearns\" was allowed to proceed against the university while lawsuits against individual school officials were thrown out.\n\nThe National Center for Science Education noted, \"One of the lawyers representing the plaintiffs is Wendell Bird, a former staff attorney for the Institute for Creation Research. As a special assistant attorney general for Louisiana, he defended the state's \"equal time\" law, which was ruled to be unconstitutional in \"Edwards v. Aguillard\". The National Center for Science Education works in collaboration with National Academy of Sciences, the National Association of Biology Teachers and the National Science Teachers Association, which consider creationism and intelligent design to be pseudoscience.\nThe Association retained leading intelligent design proponent Michael Behe to testify in the case as an expert witness. Behe's expert witness report claimed that the Christian textbooks were excellent works for high school students and he defended that view in a deposition.\n\nOn March 28, 2008 the defendants won a legal victory when their motion for partial summary judgment was granted, and the plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment was denied. On August 8, 2008, Judge Otero entered summary judgment against plaintiff ACSI.\n\n"}
{"id": "11276229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11276229", "title": "Beatrice Ensor", "text": "Beatrice Ensor\n\nBeatrice Ensor (1885–1974) was an English theosophical educationist, pedagogue, co-founder of the New Education Fellowship (later World Education Fellowship) and editor of the journal Education for the New Era.\n\nBorn in Marseille on 11 August 1885, Beatrice Nina Frederica de Normann was the eldest child of Albert Edward de Normann and Irene Matilda (née Wood). Her father was in the shipping business and her early years were spent in Marseille and Genoa, hence her fluency in Italian and French. She was greatly influenced by a theosophical book that a visitor to her home had left. This led in 1908 to her joining the Theosophical Society, which came to play an important part in her life. She had two brothers - Sir Eric de Normann (K. B. E., C. B) and Albert Wilfred Noel de Normann (\"Bill\").\n\nComing to England to complete her education, she trained as a domestic science teacher and for a short while taught the subject at a college in Sheffield. This led to her being appointed Inspector of women’s and girls’ education by Glamorgan County Council. She became disenchanted with the regimented and passive teaching she saw but when she inspected a Montessori school in Cheltenham, she became very interested in the ideas of Maria Montessori whom she met and corresponded with. She attended a conference in East Runton in 1914 organised by the New Ideals in Education group; the topic of the conference was 'The Montessori Method in Education'. She was a vegetarian and anti vivisectionist.\n\nIn the early months of World War I she was appointed by the Board of Education as H. M. Inspector of domestic science in South West England based in Bath. But she found civil service work uncongenial and, having played a major part in founding the Theosophical Fraternity in Education, she was invited to become Organising Secretary of the Theosophical Education Trust in 1915. In this role one of her main tasks was the consolidation of the Society’s educational work at Letchworth Garden City into St Christopher School, which was co-educational and boarding, with Isabel King as its Headmistress. One of the teachers at the school for a while was V. K. Krishna Menon. She worked closely for a time with George Arundale who became the President of the Theosophical Society Adyar.\n\nIn 1917 she married Robert Weld Ensor, of Northern Irish/English descent, who had served in the Canadian North West Mounted Police and was then a Captain in the Canadian Army coming to England, fighting in France and then going on the Murmansk Expedition. It was theosophy that brought them together. They had one son, Michael, born in 1919. Annie Besant, Curuppumullage Jinarajadasa and Harold Baillie-Weaver were his godparents.\n\nIn 1922 through the auspices of the Save the Children Foundation she helped to bring under nourished Hungarian children to Britain for a spell to recover their health. She travelled to Budapest and returned with the first party. For this she was awarded a medal by the Hungarian Red Cross . But a more enduring role to her Theosophical role was the production, with A. S. Neill for a time as joint editor, of the Journal \"Education for the New Era\", which still flourishes some 90 years later. Co-operating magazines in French and German followed edited by Adolphe Ferrière and Elisabeth Rotten respectively.\nIn 1921, together with Iwan Hawliczek, she organised a conference in Calais on the ‘Creative Self-Expression of the Child’, with attendance of over 100. Although this was inspired by theosophists anxious to prevent another world war, what emerged was the New (later World) Education Fellowship , an entirely non-political and non-sectarian forum for new ideas in education. It was not to advocate any particular method but to ‘seek to find the thread of truth in all methods’. It still has active sections in some 20 countries. Beatrice Ensor, together with the editors of the other two journals, formed the initial organising committee of the N.E.F., which held international conferences at two yearly intervals, presided over by distinguished educationists and pedagogues. \n\nThe second conference of 1923 was held in Montreux, Switzerland and there she met Professor Carl Jung whom she invited to speak at a meeting in London (where she introduced him to H G Wells), Emile Jacques-Dalcroze, Professor Franz Cizek and Alfred Adler.\n\nIn 1929 the conference was held in Kronborg Castle, Helsingör, Denmark and amongst the delegates and speakers were Maria Montessori, Rabindranath Tagore, Jean Piaget, Kurt Lewin, Adolphe Ferrière , Ovide Decroly, Helen Parkhurst, Pierre Bovet , A S Neill, Elisabeth Rotten, Franz Cizek, Dr Harold Rugg, Professor T P Nunn, and Paul Geheeb .\n\nOther conferences were held at Locarno (1927), Cheltenham and Heidelberg (1925),\n\nShe was a member of the Education Advisory Committee of the Labour Party for a short while but her utopian views clashed with those of R. H. Tawney and resigned her position.\n\nJust as theosophy had a profound influence on the N.E.F. so the N.E.F. had a profound influence on the creation of UNESCO. It was described as \"the midwife at the birth of UNESCO\" (Kobayashi) and has been an NGO of UNESCO since 1966 (Hiroshi Iwama). It changed its name to W.E.F. that year.\n\nMeanwhile, problems were building up within the Theosophical Education Trust leading to tensions in the Letchworth community in which the termination of her husband’s appointment as Secretary of the Trust played a part. In 1925 Isabel King and Beatrice Ensor left to establish Frensham Heights, a co-educational school in Surrey, from Montessori to university entrance level, for which Mrs. Edith Douglas-Hamilton (one of the Wills tobacco heiresses) provided the capital. Some of the St Christopher staff and children moved to Frensham to form its nucleus. However, two years later, Mrs. Douglas-Hamilton died unexpectedly without having established the financial independence of the school that she had intended. The dramatic change produced a situation where Beatrice Ensor and Isabel King did not feel they could work. They both left but the break was without bitterness and they both remained on the board of governors for several years.\n\nBeatrice Ensor then concentrated her work on the New Era and N.E.F. and undertook two lecture trips to North America in 1926 and 1928, speaking on new movements in education in Boston, New York City, Detroit, and Chicago. She was also one of an educational group that was invited to tour Poland and visited South Africa in 1927 and 1929.\n\nHer husband had moved to Louterwater in South Africa where he acquired a large farm in a little developed valley, recently found to be suitable for the growing of deciduous fruit. The orchards he planted were just beginning to bear by 1933 when he died. This meant that Beatrice had to move to South Africa and take over the farm. This greatly restricted her educational work. She was one of a group invited to lecture in Australia in 1937, where she was awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of Western Australia, Perth. She helped the South African section of the N.E.F. and financed and had built on her farm a school for mixed race children, for whom no provision existed in the area.\n\nWhen it became clear that her son would be pursuing a civil service career, just as her brothers had done, and did not want to take on the farm she sold it and moved to a house on the coast at Keurboomstrand near Plettenberg Bay. But when her family were settled in England she moved there to be with her grandchildren, living first at Blackheath, then in London, at Dolphin Square, where she died in 1974. \n\n\n\nThe full catalogue can be found on the archives' on-line catalogue.\n"}
{"id": "38152988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38152988", "title": "Bernard Zimmerman", "text": "Bernard Zimmerman\n\nBernard Zimmerman (April 22, 1930 - June 4, 2009) was an influential Mid-Century modern architect and an educator at the College of Environmental Design at California State Polytechnic University, Pomona for more than thirty years.\n\nZimmerman was born in Cleveland, California. In 1953 he earned his bachelor's degree in architecture from the UC Berkeley School of Architecture, and in 1955 he earned his master's degree from the University of Southern California(USC). He was a Fellow of the American Institute of Architects.\n\nZimmerman worked for the offices of Richard Neutra Architects, Welton Beckett & Associates and Victor Gruen Associates, before becoming president of Zimmerman Architects & Planners. He helped create the Department of Architecture at the California State Polytechnic University, Pomona and helped found the Los Angeles Institute of Architecture and Design, the A+D Museum, the annual Masters in Architecture lecture series at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and the New Blood 101 exhibit at the Pacific Design Center and Yale showcasing emerging talent in the Los Angeles area.\n\nHis works included many residential projects in the Los Angeles area such as the Marvin Rand residence, an apartment building in the Silver Lake neighborhood of Los Angeles, a residence in Sherman Oaks and the Lamanda Park branch of the Pasadena Public Library.\n\nIn 1995 Zimmerman was inducted as one of the \"Stars of Design\" by the Pacific Design Center, and in 1999 Zimmerman was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Institute of Architects. Zimmerman was honored by USC's Architectural Guild in 2003 as \"a Distinguished Alumnus who has enriched and honored the profession of Architecture\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33581277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33581277", "title": "Capitan Miranda (ROU schooner)", "text": "Capitan Miranda (ROU schooner)\n\n\"Capitán Miranda\" (ROU 20) is a three-masted staysail schooner of the Uruguayan Navy.\n\nThe \"Capitán Miranda\" was ordered in January 1930 from the Spanish \"Sociedad Española de Construcción Naval\" shipyard at Cádiz, laid down on 3 March and launched on 27 July 1930. As a hydrographic vessel she displaced 552 tons, with an overall length of , and a beam of . Capable of , the ship was armed with a 37 mm cannon and a machine gun, and had a complement of 52. She was named after Captain Francisco Prudencio Miranda (1868-1925), Uruguayan naval officer and marine geographer. \n\nSea trials were completed on 19 November 1930, and on the 21st \"Capitán Miranda\" was delivered to the Uruguayan Navy. She served as a survey ship, charting the coasts and waters of Uruguay until 1976. She was then due to be scrapped, but instead was converted into a three-masted schooner. The conversion was completed by 20 October 1978, when she began in her new role as a training ship. The \"Capitan Miranda\" has since participated in numerous international tall ship regattas.\n\n"}
{"id": "54386229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54386229", "title": "Caroline Van Deusen Chenoweth", "text": "Caroline Van Deusen Chenoweth\n\nCaroline Van Deusen Chenoweth (December 29, 1846 – 1917) was an American educator and vice-consul for Canton, China.\n\nThe daughter of Charles Van Deusen and Stary Huntington, she was born Caroline Van Deusen at the family's summer home on the Ohio River opposite Louisville, Kentucky. She was educated at the St. Charles Institute in New Orleans and at Moores Hill College. She taught private classes in Boston and was a professor of English literature at Smith College.\n\nShe married Colonel Bernard Peel Chenoweth in 1863. Her husband served as American consul for Canton, China; during her husband's illness and for several months following his death in 1870, she served as vice-consul. Her name was put forward for the post of American consul; her candidacy was supported by President Grant but was opposed by Secretary of State Hamilton Fish. In 1873, she was named a clerk at the Boston custom house.\n\nChenoweth founded the Colonel Timothy Bigelow Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution. She was a member of the Society for Psychical Research in London.\n\nShe was author of \"Stories of the Saints\" (1880), \"Child Life in China\" (1882) and \"Colonel John Hazeltine, an Undistinguished\nCitizen\" (1900).\n"}
{"id": "31323842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31323842", "title": "Charles Winters (journalist)", "text": "Charles Winters (journalist)\n\nCharles Winters is an online journalist, on-air personality and online media developer from East Tennessee who resides in New York City. Winters is a direct descendant of Admiral Sir William Wynter, who was a Royal Navy Officer under Queen Elizabeth I of England and served the crown during the Anglo-Spanish War (1585–1604). Only eleven generations separate the two men.\n\nCharles currently serves as the Chief Executive Officer for GaySocialites Media, the parent company for GaySocialites.com and queerplanet.net - the websites he owns, operates and manages. He is also a Public Member of Manhattan Community Board 1 serving on the Quality of Life Committee.\n\nCharles Winters began working in broadcast journalism before he even completed his bachelor's degree in Communications from the University of Tennessee in 1999.\n\nWinters made his television news debut as a reporter in the Knoxville market (then ranked 64th) at the Fox affiliate WTNZ during the 1998 elections. He covered a controversial race for the Tennessee Senate where Charlotte Burks successfully filled a seat previously held by her husband, Tommy Burks, who was assassinated by his opponent earlier in the race.\n\nWinters began working as a news anchor and reporter in January 1999 for a news magazine show, then called Insights, that aired on the local NBC affiliate each Saturday at noon.\nWhile attending the University of Tennessee, Winters was also a controversial figure in student politics and on-campus broadcasting. Winters co-founded the first student run television station on the Knoxville campus and served on the committee that reformatted and re-branded the university's radio station from New Rock 90 to WUTK \"The Rock\", and he also served as the President Pro-temp/ Speaker of the student senate. He went on to serve as the president of the United Residence Halls Council where he unseated the incumbent in a tight run-off election.\nUpon graduation Winters worked as a news anchor and reporter for BBB Communications, a small Cablevision station providing local news coverage for the suburbs north and west of Knoxville, Tennessee. He also did a brief stint at WWKZ radio in Memphis as a promotions on-air personality before returning to Knoxville as a Television News Reporter and Producer at the local CBS affiliate, WVLT-TV. In 2001 he accepted a freelance position in New York City and relocated to Manhattan.\n\nAfter witnessing the September 11th terrorist attacks, he provided news coverage for WVLT and several newspapers in East Tennessee.\n\nWinters later picked up the nickname \"gay socialite\" for his community and social involvement mainly by volunteering for various charities such as LGBT advocacy groups, animal rescues and political organizations such as Hillary Clintons United States Senate and Presidential campaigns, New York City Council Speaker Christine Quinn's bid for Mayor and Sean Patrick Maloney's attempt at New York attorney general in addition to working in Manhattan's nightlife scene hosting late night variety-style shows (in such historic venues as the Tunnel, the Limelight/ Avalon and Stonewall Inn.)\n\nDuring this same time, Winters also worked as an online entertainment correspondent for queerplanet, an Australian-based media group for which he acquired the operations rights in 2011 and re-branded as queerplanet.net: powered by GaySocialites.com.\n\nIn 2006 Winters turned his nickname into a business when he co-founded GaySocialites.com, an online magazine dedicated to providing topics that appeal to gay men beyond LGBT news coverage, with Anthony Lago.\n\nFrom October 2005 until October 2011, Charles Winters maintained credits as the founding editor and held the top executive post with titles ranging from Managing Editor to Chief Executive Officer at GaySocialites.com.\n\nAfter launching GaySocialites.com in October 2006 as a source to provide information, gossip and listings about New York nightclubs, Winters led the website to first earn credibility among colleagues and competitors with coverage of the death of Anna Nicole Smith in early 2007.\n\nIn December 2010, Winters established himself as the sole proprietor of the website and all entities of the GaySocialites brand.\n\nGaySocialites.com acquired queerplanet.net in June 2011 to form a larger organization called the GaySocialites Media, which also went by the name, Charles Winters Information Management during the first quarter of 2012. Soon after the acquisition, queerplanet.net's format was changed to cover \"abnormal news and odd information.\" In 2012, queerplanet.net re-entered the gay market as a news aggregator gathering news from a variety of LGBT outlets granting easy access to those searching the web for topics relating to the gay community.\n\nWithin a month, Charles Winters Information Management began development on two new web products. CouponAngel.us targeted those interested in the coupon craze. His sister, Donna Winters, was appointed Vice-President and Editor-in-Chief.\n\nAs the GaySocialites.com celebrated its sixth anniversary, Winters announced he would be moving into a new role as CEO and Editorial Director for all websites operated by one umbrella organization, GaySocialites Media Group. At the same time, he appointed Thomas Bistritz as the new Editor-in-Chief and the first person to hold the top position at the website other than Winters himself.\n\nIn 2012, Winters launched GaySocialites.com's first video entity called \"The Popularity Contest\". It is a weekly count down show that recaps the most popular topics on GaySocialites.com each week. The pilot episode was titled, \"Weekends with Winters\" and he served as the program's initial host. In September 2013, he announced the debut of the GaySocialites.com Times Square Studios where he and others will produce a new series of online digital media programming. In late November, GaySocialites.com announced that it would be producing a new online talk show called \"The Buzz\" set to debut in mid-December with a panel of co-host including Winters and others. The Buzz by GaySocialites.com aired just a few episodes before taking an indefinite production hiatus.\n\nCharles Winters is also a practicing life coach and self-help columnist offering clients assistance with goal setting, properly utilizing affirmations and preparing their personal operations plan using a workbook and scheduling system that he personally devised.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2004, Winters studied Life Coaching with Fairchild-Brown in London where he was taught the working of the subconscious mind, affirmations, personal questioning and goal setting.\n\nIn 2001 Charles Winters made his acting debut as an extra on Saturday Night Live appearing in four episodes in the Fall 2001 season. In 2004, Winters studied acting, movement and diction at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York. His credits include a starring role as \"Charles\" the vacuum cleaner salesperson in \"Walk on the Wild Side\", a short film directed by Stephane Sednaoui based on the Lou Reed song. He also appeared in a syndicated automobile sales commercial as car owner giving their testimonial. Winters also worked as a still model appearing in stock photography currently available online.\n\nIn October 2013, Winters was appointed as a Public Member of Manhattan Community Board 1. He serves on the Quality of Life Committee. He is also active in various animal rights groups including the Mayor's Alliance for NYC Animals and New York City's Center for Animal Care and Control. In 2014, he began volunteering with Habitat for Humanity helping launch the first Habitat ReStore in New York City.\n\nWinters' has also made headlines for his controversial coverage igniting feuds with a variety of high-profile personalities including Village Voice gossip columnist, Michael Musto, and singer Lily Allen.\n\nHe has also had several public disputes with Kim Zolciak of Bravo's \"Real Housewives of Atlanta\". In September 2009, gossip columnists reported that Winters was being paid to escort Zolciak around Manhattan to help create a buzz for her debut single, \"Tardy for the Party\". Then later that month, Winters reported that Zolciak's former publicist claimed she was homophobic and racist. Then in December 2009, Winters broke news that Zolciak was in a lesbian relationship with celebrity DJ Tracy Young after he says he caught the two women on a date at a Manhattan gay club before a performance by Zolciak which Winters highly criticized. In October 2010, all three parties (Winters, Zolciak and Young) were booked as a part of the \"OUTinAC\" weekend (a gay gathering in Atlantic City) and organizers scurried to keep Winters and Zolciak separated after news broke that weekend that she was pregnant.\n\nHis personal life has even been the topic of various gossip columns leading to a spoof promotional campaign for GaySocialites.com featuring all negative reviews about his reporting and personal life.\n\nWinters has also been recognized by multiple organizations, including Glammy nominations for Best Writer in 2008, 2009, 2010, and 2011. He was also nominated for the same award after the Glammys became known as the Glam Awards in 2012 and 2013. He also won an HX Award in 2007 with other nightclub promoters for their production of a weekly nightclub party called Hot Mess. In 2014, Winters was nominated by Odyssey Magazine as the Best Blogger/ Writer of the Year.\n\n"}
{"id": "7417464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7417464", "title": "Classical Public Radio Network", "text": "Classical Public Radio Network\n\nThe Classical Public Radio Network was a national, 24-hour classical music service in the United States. Its mission was to preserve, enhance and expand experience of classical music for radio listeners. With this vision, CPRN was established in 1998 as a limited-liability non-profit company – a joint venture of KUSC (Los Angeles) and Colorado Public Radio – with startup funding from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. In 2003, CPRN and National Public Radio (NPR) joined in a collaborative marketing arrangement to further expand the network, but ceased national broadcast operations on June 30, 2008.\n\nCPRN offered listeners the full spectrum of the classical repertoire from medieval times to the present – complete symphonies and orchestral pieces, chamber works, opera selections, art songs, and choral works. The announcers and music staff programmed the music with a focus on core repertoire and superior recordings. Each announcer brought personal expertise to selecting featured music, alternate performances, artist tributes and unique recordings, as well as seasonal and date-specific programming.\n\nEnhancing the 24-hour program stream were several weekly and daily shows and features. Weekdays, Kimberlea Daggy hosted \"The Daily Special\" at noon, and Charles Andrews unearthed \"Buried Treasures\" at 8:00pm. On Sunday mornings, Stephanie Wendt presented \"Sacred Classics\", featuring three hours of meditative music for the heart and mind. Contemporary classical music was explored every Saturday evening by Alan Chapman on \"Modern Masterpieces\". The programming was regularly enhanced with holiday programming, new releases, composer profiles, and frequent appearances by artists in the classical music world.\n\nCPRN programming was carried across the country on the following public radio stations: KUSC, Los Angeles; KVOD, Denver; WBHM, Birmingham, AL; KBSU-FM, Boise, ID; South Dakota Public Broadcasting, Vermillion, SD; High Plains Public Radio, Garden City, KS (KANZ) and Amarillo, TX (KJJP); KBYI, Rexburg, ID; KWTU, Tulsa, OK; WTEB, New Bern, NC; WFCR, Amherst, MA; WOSU-FM, Columbus, OH; and on digital radio, WHYY-FM, Philadelphia, PA, WJCT-FM, Jacksonville, FL, and KDFC-FM, San Francisco.\n\nFormer client stations operated a total of 53 signals and reached more than one million listeners weekly. Programming was distributed to stations via the Public Radio Satellite System.\n\n"}
{"id": "12605410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12605410", "title": "Critical friend", "text": "Critical friend\n\nCritical friend has its origins in critical pedagogy education reforms in the 1970s and arose out of the self-appraisal activity which is attributed to Desmond Nuttall. One of the most widely used definitions is from 1993,\nAndrew Hutchinson, a public sector consultant, introduced the term to the Local Government Consortium at the University of Warwick in 1998 and it is cited in several papers produced by Professor Jean Hartley of the Local Government Consortium. The critical friend is characterised as falling between the extremes of the \"hostile witness\" and the \"uncritical lover\" whereas earlier texts go so far as to allude to Janus in discussing the concept.\n\nThis dichotomy appealed to Hutchinson who frequently used the term while leader of the South East Midlands Citizen's Charter Quality Network run by the Cabinet Office in Whitehall. In his time running the network he came into regular contact with fellow Lancastrian and Government Minister Peter Kilfoyle MP, Public Service Minister who was responsible for the running of the networks as minister. When Kilfoyle found himself increasingly distanced from the policy agenda of Prime Minister Tony Blair and he chose to resign from Government, Hansard quotes him as saying that he wished to return to the back benches but remain a \"critical friend\" of the Government. \n\nHe was misquoted in the \"Daily Telegraph\" as they claimed that he had said that he wished to be a \"candid friend\" to Government. It is not unreasonable to suppose that the term critical friend has its origins in the softer sounding notion of the candid friend. Nonetheless following the resignation of Peter Kilfoyle \"The Guardian\" newspaper (a popular publication amongst the intelligentsia and public sector middle management) began to popularise the term which is increasingly entering into general usage. The phrase is still most commonly used in education circles but its wider use in the public sector can to a large part be attributed to Andrew Hutchinson and his natural enthusiasm for the concept, being described as 'a natural critical friend acting with positive intent' in 1999 by the then Chief Executive of Coventry City Council, Iain Roxburgh, who is now Director of the Warwick Research Consortium. While a variety of useful and interesting quotations are to be found on the web perhaps the reason for the popularity of the phrase is best summed up by the following quotation,\n"}
{"id": "2477469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2477469", "title": "Cross-registration", "text": "Cross-registration\n\nCross-registration in United States higher education is a system allowing students at one university, college, or faculty within a university to take individual courses for credit at another institution or faculty, typically in the same region.\n\nCross-registration gives students access to a wider variety of subject matter at a certain logistical cost: travel time, inconsistent academic calendars, etc. It is governed by the home institution's regulations, which typically require that a similar course not be offered by the home institution, that the student not take too many outside courses, that certain basic types of courses be taken at the home institution, etc.\n\nAmong institutions, cross-registration is governed by agreements – bilateral or regional (often consortia). Money may or may not flow between the institutions to compensate for the difference between inbound and outbound cross-registrants. Cross-registration allows universities in a region to focus on their area of specialization at the cost of not having direct control of their students' academic experience.\n"}
{"id": "21554084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21554084", "title": "Cursinho", "text": "Cursinho\n\nCursinho (, \"little course\", also called or ) is a type of cram school, usually private, in many Brazilian cities, and attended by students trying to qualify for university admission through entrance exams (\"vestibular\"), or by people willing to take a public examination to work as a public servant. These last for three months, in general.\n\nCursinhos pré-vestibular always have extensive and semi-extensive courses, extensive courses taking place during most of the year, and semi-extensive ones taking place during the second semester, while the exact month to start may vary.\n\nMost of them revise the subjects that the students need to know to take the vast majority of the vestibulares: Mathematics, Portuguese language (literature and grammar), History, Geography, Biology, Physics, Chemistry and English language. Some still offer extra classes for deeper studies on specific subjects, current news (which may be required in some of the vestibulares) and techniques on writing an essay, which is required in all vestibulares.\n\nIt is also common to separate the students by the area of knowledge they wish to study in the university (humanities, exact sciences and biological sciences), providing a deeper study in different subjects accordingly with the area (History and Geography; Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry; Biology and Chemistry respectively, with similar focus on Portuguese and English for all groups).\n"}
{"id": "23125922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23125922", "title": "DemiDec", "text": "DemiDec\n\nDemiDec Resources is a private company founded in 1994 by now-CEO Daniel Berdichevsky that annually publishes unauthorized study materials for the United States Academic Decathlon, hosts the World Scholar's Cup and co-operates several \"study academies\" around the world.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, the United States Academic Decathlon had few third-party companies that wrote study materials for students, and individual teams had to do most of the research themselves. Daniel Berdichevsky had been part of the Taft High School Academic Decathlon in the 1992–1993 season, but had dropped out because he was \"too scared of giving a speech\". Despite this, Berdichevsky became team captain for the 1993–94 season. Berdichevsky and his teammates would go on to win the United States Academic Decathlon National Championship that year with the help of their coach, Dr. Berchin, who had also led a team to victory in 1989. Earlier that year, Berdichevsky had set an individual scoring record at the Los Angeles City competition that would remain unbroken until the 2007–08 season, when Isabel Salovaara from Whitney Young High School in Illinois earned 9,300 points to beat Berdichevsky's record by a mere three points.\n\nSix weeks after the competition, Berdichevsky and teammate Andrew Salter started creating guides and examinations for the next season. Their first year's product was very small, and was criticized for its errors, though it earned the two almost $20,000 in 5 months. However, when their old coach Dr. Berchin joined them the following year, DemiDec gained more stability and decided to continue with the venture in the future. During the following two years, the company changed structure to its current one; it began to rely heavily on \"a network of former Decathletes, curriculum experts and experienced writers\" to create a study course that included both study guides and practice examinations. In 1998, DemiDec nearly merged with USAD, but for an unknown reason, did not. Since then, the company has consistently come out with a variety of material for Academic Decathlon, including \"Resource Guides\", \"Power Guides\", flashcards, quizzes, and sequenced examinations. The materials are generally released in the summer, after having been seen by \"Beta testers\" – usually current or former Academic Decathletes.\n\nIn 2006, Berdichevsky, citing disappointment that Academic Decathlon ended at just a national level (United States Academic Decathlon has offered International Programs since 2013) in a rapidly more interconnected world, created the World Scholar's Cup. Though the World Scholar's Cup is based on the Academic Decathlon, it follows a different format. Instead of ten subjects like the Academic Decathlon, the World Scholar's Cup includes only six subjects: science, history, literature, art and music, social studies, and a special area, of which three of those events are based on a different yearly theme. At the competition, students participate in four events that encompass all six subjects: a curriculum-based debate, an essay, a multiple choice test and the \"Scholar's Bowl\", a live tournament where team members may answer questions together. Teams generally consist of either two or three students and may represent either their school, multiple schools, or even countries; this policy further sets World Scholar's Cup apart from Academic Decathlon where six to nine students represent a single school. The culmination of the annual competition is held in one of the competing countries, of which there are currently 20. Companies that sponsor the World Scholar's Cup aside from DemiDec are FunnelBrain and iClicker\n\nDemiDec also operates a number of \"DemiDec Academies\" in South Korea. The programs prepare students for variety of subjects, but focus on SAT Preparation for Korean students interested in studying in America.\n\n"}
{"id": "11325702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11325702", "title": "Department of Education, Sport and Culture", "text": "Department of Education, Sport and Culture\n\nThe Department of Education, Sport and Culture (\"Rheynn Ynsee Spoyrt as Cultoor\") is a department of the Isle of Man Government.\n\nThe department was formerly the Department of Education and Children and was renamed as the Department of Education, Sport and Culture under Statutory Document No. 2017/0325 with effect from November 2017.\n\nThe current Minister (since 2016) is Graham Cregeen.\n\nThe Department of Education was renamed during the Government shake up of April 2010 as Department of Education and Children.\n\nThe \"Board of Education for the Isle of Man\" was established as a Board of Tynwald in 1872, and renamed the \"Council of Education\" in 1899. It was reconstituted and renamed the \"Isle of Man Board of Education\" in 1946. Its function was to oversee and provide funds to the elected local school boards, and after 1920 to the popularly elected \"Isle of Man Central Education Authority\" which replaced them. The Authority was renamed the \"Isle of Man Education Authority\" in 1923. The Isle of Man Education Act 1949, which was based on the UK 'Butler Act' of 1944, preserved this two-tier structure, the Board assuming the role of the Ministry of Education and the Authority that of a local education authority.\n\nAs the Isle of Man Government gained greater autonomy after 1950, a separate Education Authority of 24 elected members, parallel to and rivalling the House of Keys, became increasingly anomalous and unwieldy, but it proved very tenacious of life. An attempt to rationalise the system in 1968 resulted only in the merger of the Authority with the Board, which thereafter consisted of 5 \"Tynwald members\" appointed by Tynwald and 24 elected \"non-Tynwald members\", the former having control over finance and certain powers of veto.\n\nThe Department of Education was set up in 1987 as part of the new ministerial system, but a further attempt to remove the elected element was only partly successful. The Board was reconstituted as a body of 15 elected members with greatly reduced functions; in effect it became a panel from which members of the governing bodies of primary and secondary schools and the Isle of Man College were drawn. It was finally dissolved in June 2009.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15558462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15558462", "title": "Dietary Guidelines for Americans", "text": "Dietary Guidelines for Americans\n\nThe Dietary Guidelines for Americans (DGA) provide nutritional advice for Americans who are more than 2 years old. The Guidelines are published every 5 years by the US Department of Agriculture, together with the US Department of Health and Human Services. The most recent edition is the 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. The nominal purpose of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans is to help health professionals and policymakers to advise Americans about healthy choices for their diet. Although the Dietary Guidelines for Americans are purported to be based on a systematic review of the current body of nutrition science, the Advisory Committee tasked with formulating the plan for retrieval and analysis of the scientific evidence for the current edition of the DGA used a less than rigorous process for assessing the health effects of consumption of saturated fat and salt and for assessing the health effects of a low-fat, high-carbohydrate diet. This less than rigorous review of the nutrition science literature resulted in omission of multiple large, high-quality, clinical trials and also omission of some high-quality prospective observational studies. Some Advisory Committee members also had conflicts-of-interest that in some cases were not fully disclosed. For these reasons, the quality of the Advisory Committee's Scientific Report and the validity of the 2015 - 2020 DGA itself has been challenged by critics as being unduly influenced by commercial interests and as being flawed due to confirmation bias of some members of the Advisory Committee.\n\nThe efforts of the US Federal Government to establish a scientific basis for human nutrition began with Wilbur Olin Atwater, who published the first dietary recommendations for Americans in 1894, notably stating that, \"We live not upon what we eat, but upon what we digest.\"\n\nThe Dietary Guidelines for Americans has been published every 5 years beginning in 1980, producing eight guidelines to date. One consistent recommendation of these eight guidelines has been that Americans reduce their dietary consumption of fat and animal products, including meat, dairy, and eggs and to increase their dietary consumption of carbohydrates and plant foods, including fruits, vegetables, and grains.\n\nThe Guidelines were established so as to provide dietary advice that would improve the health of Americans and reduce their risk for chronic conditions, such as cancer, atherosclerosis, hypertension, heart disease, stroke, and renal disease. The Dietary Guidelines have the purpose of guiding the development of Federal policies and programs related to food, nutrition, and health. The guidelines influence and guide policymakers for Federally-financed food and dietary education programs. They also influence clinicians in the United States and in other countries.\n\nThe intended audience for the Dietary Guidelines for Americans are policymakers, nutrition scientists, and dieticians and other health professionals. The Guidelines themselves are not intended to directly inform the general public, but instead to serve as an authoritative, evidence-based information source that policymakers and health professionals can use to advise Americans about making healthy choices in their daily lives so as to enjoy a healthy diet that also prevents chronic disease. The Dietary Guidelines for Americans provide an evidence-base that is used by the Federal government to develop nutrition education materials for Americans.\n\nFederal law and regulation require that Federal government publications provide dietary guidance consistent with the Dietary Guidelines for Americans. For the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) the guidelines provide the scientific rationale for the National School Lunch Program and School Breakfast Program, feeding 30 million children every school day, and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children, which has 8 million beneficiaries. For the United States Department of Health and Human Services Administration on Aging, the guidelines provide the rationale for the Older Americans Act Nutrition Services programs which include more than 5,000 community-based nutrition service providers (e.g., Meals on Wheels), serving more than 900,000 meals a day across the United States. The Department of Defense uses the guidelines as the rationale for meal rations for military personnel and the Department of Veterans Affairs uses the guidelines to inform nutrition education for veterans who are patients of the VA Hospital System. In addition to these governmental audiences, the Dietary Guidelines for Americans are widely used by state and local governments, schools, commercial enterprises, community groups, the media, and the food industry to inform policy and program development intended to serve the general public.\n\nThe current Dietary Guidelines for Americans (2015-2020) were developed in three stages, beginning with a review of scientific evidence, followed by development of the guidelines, and finally with implementation of the guidelines. Compared to previous guidelines, the 2015–2020 guidelines put emphasize replacing saturated fats with unsaturated fats, particularly polyunsaturated fats, with the goal of preventing heart attack and stroke.\n\nThe guidelines provide a general recommendation that people follow a healthy eating pattern with appropriate calories, and that the evaluation of ones eating pattern accounts for all foods and beverages, including snacks. The recommended healthy eating pattern includes:\n\nInclude these in diet:\n\nLimit these in diet:\n\nThe Dietary Guidelines also include a key recommendation to meet the Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans.\n\nThe MyPlate initiative, based on the recommendations of the 2015 -2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans and produced by the USDA Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion, is a nutrition education program directed at the general public, providing a guide to \"finding healthy eating solutions to fit your lifestyle.\"\n\nThe USDA has invited interested parties, including members of the general public, to participate and follow the development of the 2020 - 2025 edition of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans. As mandated by the Agriculture Act of 2014, this next edition of the guidelines will cover the full life-span of Americans, as expansion of the guidelines are planned to include recommendations for pregnant women, infants, and children younger than 2 years old. The Trump Administration has proposed a budget of more than $12 million for the evaluation of scientific evidence, development of the 2020-2025 Dietary Guidelines for Americans, and dissemination of the new edition to its target audience of policymakers, nutrition experts, and clinicians; this budget request has been supported by multiple organizations.\n\nEach edition of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans has had attendant controversy, with objections particularly from scientists whose point-of-view was not reflected in the guidelines and from commercial interests negatively affected by the recommendations therein. The response to the 2015-2020 guidelines was particularly contentious, resulting in action by Congress mandating the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to evaluate the process used to update the DGA. This review by the National Academies resulted in two reports. The first report, entitled \"Optimizing the Process for Establishing the Dietary Guidelines for Americans: The Selection Process\", identified opportunities for improving the process for selecting members of the Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee. In September, 2018 the USDA issued an official response to the first report of the National Academies committee. The second report from National Academies of Sciences, entitled \"Redesigning the Process for Establishing the Dietary Guidelines for Americans\", offers an exhaustive review and provides recommendations for improving the process of revising the Dietary Guidelines so as to best identify, analyze, and present the scientific evidence.\n\nOne critic contends that the current guidelines do not promote the public interest and have been corrupted by regulatory capture, advancing the commercial concerns of agribusiness and large food processors, and the political concerns of scientists intent on preserving their point-of-view. Another critic notes that the DGAs make recommendations that overvalue the findings of observational studies and surrogate measures of outcomes and that undervalue the findings of high-quality randomized controlled trials.\n\nThere is compelling evidence that food frequency questionnaires and other methods that rely on human memory do not accurately measure dietary intake. An analysis of the validity of the methods used by the USDA to estimate per capita calorie consumption found that these methods lack validity and the authors of this study recommend that these methods not be used to inform public policy. A systematic review found that only a few studies have measured the accuracy or reliability of dietary assessment methods in schoolchildren. The few studies that have been done found that schoolchildren did not accurately report foods consumed but that they did accurately report total calories consumed. The 2015 Guidelines were based on the Scientific Report of the 2015 Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee, which did not rely on actual measurements of dietary intake but instead relied on memory-based dietary assessments, including interviews and surveys despite clear evidence that such methods markedly underestimate actual calorie consumption and nutrient intake. Thus, the conclusions expressed in the Scientific Report have been criticized, and the Dietary Guidelines for Americans are considered invalid by some experts, as the DGAs rely on invalid methods and draw conclusions that do not agree with the available scientific literature.\n\nThe Dietary Guidelines for Americans have been criticized for recommending a diet that is low in total fat, and for not adequately emphasizing the harmful effect of industrially-produced trans fats. A systematic review of 62,421 participants in 10 dietary trials found that reducing dietary fat intake had no effect on coronary heart disease and had no effect on overall mortality. The authors of this meta-analysis conclude that the available evidence from randomized controlled trials does not support the recommendation of the 2015 - 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans that people reduce their fat intake.\n\nThe Dietary Guidelines for Americans have been criticized for recommending a diet that contains less than 2.3  grams of sodium (5.8 grams of salt/day). Notably, 95% of the world's populations have a mean intake of salt that is between 6 g and 12 g daily and evidence on the health effects of salt does not support such a severe restriction on salt intake. An analysis of dietary guidelines found that this recommendation for restriction of salt intake is not supported by evidence from randomized controlled trials nor is it supported by evidence from prospective observational studies. In fact, intake of less than 5.8 g of salt per day typically results in activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, which leads to an increase in plasma lipids and increased mortality. The authors of this analysis suggest a redesign of the dietary guidelines for salt intake is needed.\n\nA Committee of the National Academies Institute of Medicine evaluated the evidence about dietary salt intake and health. Overall, the committee found evidence that higher salt intake was associate with increased risk of cardiovascular disease. However, the Committee also found that the evidence did not support the claim that lowering sodium intake in the general population to less than 2,300 mg/day was associated with a lower risk of death nor with a higher risk of death.\n\nThe Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommend limiting alcoholic beverages consumption to no more than 1 drink daily for women and no more than 2 drinks daily for men. The 2015 - 2020 Scientific Report of the Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee asserts that most studies show that moderate consumption of alcohol has been shown to be part of a beneficial dietary pattern. However, a systematic review and meta-analysis of scientific studies of alcohol consumption and all-cause mortality found that consumption of up to 2 alcoholic beverages per day had no net mortality benefit compared with lifetime abstention from alcohol. A systematic analysis of data from the Global Burden of Disease study found that consumption of ethanol increases the risk of cancer and increases the risk of all-cause mortality, and that the level of ethanol consumption that minimizes disease is zero consumption.\nThe Guidelines recommend that people not mix alcohol and beverages containing caffeine, as this combined intake may result in greater alcohol consumption, with a greater risk of alcohol-related injury.\n\nProducers of honey and maple syrup have objected to the proposed Federal regulatory requirement that honey and maple syrup include the term \"added sugar\" on product labeling, despite the fact that no additional sugar is added to these products. This regulatory requirement follows from the recommendation in the 2015 - 2020 Guidelines that added sugars be limited to less than 10% of calories and that honey and maple syrup are themselves considered by federal regulators to be added sugars.\n"}
{"id": "5557270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5557270", "title": "Education in Mauritania", "text": "Education in Mauritania\n\nThe first system of public education in Mauritania was established by the French colonial administration. The first schools were largely concentrated in the sedentary communities of the Sénégal River Valley. In 1950, the first teacher training school was established at Boutilimit, and in 1957, the secondary school in Rosso also began training teachers. In part because public schools were concentrated in the south, black Africans enrolled in large numbers. As a result, the overwhelming majority of public school teachers were black, and the nation's secular educated class was dominated by black people.\n\nThe few French schools located in nomadic areas had difficulty attracting students. The Maures in particular were reluctant to accept the public schools and continued to favor purely Islamic instruction. Gradually, however, they began to send their children to public schools, as they saw that traditional religious training was not preparing their children for life in the twentieth century. The French also experimented with \"mobile schools\" after World War II, and in this way they provided public education for a larger number of nomads. In 1954 there were twelve so-called \"tent\" schools serving 241 students. At least some of these tent schools continued to function after Mauritania gained independence from France in 1960.\n\nThe independent government viewed secular education as one of the major methods to promote national unity, as well as a necessary step toward the development of a modern economy. It still faced shortages of funds, adequately trained teaching staff, and classroom facilities at all levels. Another teacher training school was opened in Nouakchott in 1964. School attendance was not compulsory, and in 1964-65 only 19,100 primary-school students and 1,500 secondary-school students (about 14 percent of school-age children) were enrolled. By 1985 an estimated 35 percent of primary-school-age children were enrolled in school, but only about 4 to 10 percent of eligible secondary-school-age children were enrolled. In both cases, boys heavily outnumbered girls.\n\nIn 1985-86, primary-school enrollments had climbed to 140,871, and enrollments in secondary and vocational schools amounted to 34,674. The government reported a total of 878 primary schools and 44 secondary or vocational institutions. A total of 4,336 students were enrolled in postsecondary training programs. An additional 448 students were attending the National Islamic Institute (formerly the Institute of Islamic Studies), and some 1,900 Mauritanians were enrolled in various training programs abroad. The public schools employed almost 2,900 primary teachers, 1,563 secondary and vocational teachers (412 of them foreign), and 237 postsecondary instructors, more than half of them expatriates. In 1982, the National College of Administration and the National College of Sciences opened in Nouakchott, and in 1983 nearly 1,000 students began instruction at the University of Nouakchott.\n\nIlliteracy remained a major problem and an important impediment to economic and social development. In 1985, the adult literacy rate was estimated at 17 to 25 percent, approximately half the average for sub-Saharan Africa. Nonetheless, this rate represented an improvement over the estimated 5 percent literacy rate at independence and 10 percent a decade later. Recognizing the need for a better educated work force, in 1986, the government launched a major literacy campaign and created the State Secretariat of Culture, Information, and Telecommunications to head the effort. That same year, the government reported that the number of literacy classes had already increased more than ten times over the 1985 number.\n\nAt the same time, the cost of education was quite high in comparison with neighboring countries. In the mid-1980s, Mauritania was spending about US$45 million (20 percent of current expenditures) on education every year. Its costs for primary schooling were the highest per student in francophone West Africa, and only Côte d'Ivoire exceeded the cost per secondary pupil. These high costs were due in part to teachers' salaries, particularly those of expatriates, and to a generous system of scholarships. Planned investment in education for the years 1985 through 1988 was set at US$27 million under the Economic Recovery Program for 1985-88, an increase of less than 1 percent over the period from 1980 through 1984.\n\nThe French system of primary and secondary schools remained in force into the late 1980s. Over the years, however, some significant changes had been made, and others were planned. In the early 1980s, instruction in the Pulaar, Azayr (Soninke), and Wolof languages was introduced into the primary school curriculum, and Literary Arabic was emphasized at all levels. The official policy of gradually replacing French with local languages and Literary Arabic, adopted in the late 1970s, drew vigorous protests from French-speaking black Mauritanians and was abandoned within a decade.\n\nMauritania remained critically short of skilled labor. In the mid-1980s, only about 15 percent of secondary-school students were enrolled in vocational education. To redress this situation and to raise the general level of literacy, the government encouraged the growth of private and Quranic schools; most industrial training took place in private institutions. More important, the government also turned to the international community. In 1987 the World Bank agreed to help make Mauritania's education system more responsive to the country's development needs. Proposed changes involved expanding primary education and restructuring secondary schooling. Special attention was to be given to vocational training in areas of particular national need, such as water engineering and fisheries.\n\nEducation is compulsory between the ages of 6 and 14. In 2002, the gross primary enrollment rate was 88 percent, and the net primary enrollment rate was 68 percent. Gross and net enrollment ratios are based on the number of students formally registered in primary school and therefore do not necessarily reflect actual school attendance. In 1996, 41.8 percent of children ages 7 to 14 years were attending school. As of 2001, 61 percent of children who started primary school were likely to reach grade 5. However, a lack of adequate school facilities and teachers, particularly in rural areas, is likely to impede the full realization of the government’s goal of universal primary education in Mauritania until at least 2007.\n\nPublic school is free, but other costs such as books and lunches make education unaffordable for many poor children. Ongoing challenges to the provision of quality education in Mauritania include high dropout and repetition rates, inadequate curriculum, and a poor national infrastructure that prevents children from traveling to and from school. In 2002, a World Food Program (WFP) survey of out-of-school children in Mauritania found that 25 percent did not attend school due to the need to support their families or perform domestic work, and another 22 percent did not attend due to the distance to school. \n\n"}
{"id": "2568706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2568706", "title": "Forest school (learning style)", "text": "Forest school (learning style)\n\nForest school, is a outdoor education delivery model in which children (or adults) visit natural spaces to learn personal, social and technical skills. It has been defined as \"an inspirational process that offers children, young people and adults regular opportunities to achieve and develop confidence through hands-on learning in a woodland environment\". Forest school is both a pedagogy and a physical entity, with the use often being interchanged. The plural \"schools\" is often used when referring to a number of groups or sessions. There is no single definition of \"forest school\", and as of 2018 known attempts to commercialize the term via trademark or copyright have been unsuccessful.\n\nForest school uses the woods and forests as a means to build independence and self-esteem in children and young adults.Topics are cross-curriculum (broad in subject) including the natural environment, for example the role of trees in society, the complex ecosystem supported by a wilderness, and recognition of specific plants and animals. However, the personal skills are considered highly valuable, such as teamwork and problem solving. The woodland environment may be used to learn about more abstract concepts such as mathematics and communication. Forest school provision is also called \"nature schools\".\n\nIn the UK Model schedules within forest schools vary, but one approach is to take school learners to woodland for once a week, with an initial 6 week observation and assessment period, where a baseline is produced for each child in terms of areas of their holistic development, with particular emphasis on their social and emotional aspects of learning (SEAL). Once the baseline assessment has been produced the Forest School Leader / Practitioner will then continue with the long term programme over the course of the learning period in order to support the child in their development and learning. The practitioner will provide opportunities for each child to develop in areas that have been identified as requiring interventions or support of any kind The duration and frequency of visits influences the degree of outcome; more time spent in forest school brings greater benefits. Visits should ideally continue throughout the year, allowing children to experience all weathers and the changing seasons.\n\nForest schools are for all learners, of any age, often \"led by the learner`s interests\" (learner initiated learning) by comparison to other outdoor education which \"starts with an issue agenda or problem for the learner to investigate\". The main goals of forest school in primary age children includes encouraging curiosity and exploration with all of the senses, empowering children in the natural environment, and encouraging spatial awareness and motor development. Forest schools usually provide a higher adult to child ratio than some learning styles, in order to ensure children are supported sufficiently in a higher risk environment.\n\nBeyond primary school age children, forest school is frequently used to further develop social skills and explore creative learning and focuses on developing firm foundations for continued personal and education development. In particular it has been used as an alternative curriculum provision to support continued mainstream education involvement, or as a temporary/transitional approach back into school.\n\nConsistent with attention restoration theory, children taking part in forest school have been described as more relaxed. Relationships between the children and each other, with adults, and with the environment, are important\n\nForest school is part of the broader area of outdoor education. Outside the school curriculum, this extends to summer holiday camps, Scouting, Outward Bound projects and many other activities. Before children reach school age, Forest kindergartens provide a similar service.\n\nForest school is currently taking place in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, USA, Malaysia, Switzerland, Spain, Ireland, Germany and United Kingdom.\n\nThe combination of freedom and responsibility has been particularly beneficial to children who suffer from lack of confidence or whose behaviour is challenging. With high adult:child ratios, children can safely experience activities that are often prohibited, such as climbing trees or lighting fires.Children have the freedom to explore the area within the forest, this helps the child to learn to manage their own safety and move around comfortably. The programme allows children to grow in confidence and independence and extend their abilities.\n\nSome children do not perform well in classrooms. They are encouraged to develop their innate curiosity and develop the motivation to learn. They may come from a non-academic family background, may have a short attention span, or may just not be comfortable with the organisation of a teacher standing in front of a group of pupils. Boys in general, prefer to be outside, and learn better in this way.\n\nIn a major study in the USA, students with behavioural problems in \"Environment as an Integrating Context for Learning\" (EIC) programmes caused fewer discipline problems than their traditionally educated peers. Similarly, Forest schools have been found to help children with additional support needs, including Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and autistic children.\n\n\nIn the 1950s the idea was created in Denmark and shortly there after in Sweden. In Denmark it became an embedded part of the curriculum for pre-school children (under seven years) stemming from their småbørnspædagogik, or 'Early childhood education'. Children attending Forest kindergartens were in most cases arriving at school with strong social skills, the ability to work in groups effectively, high self-esteem, and confidence in their own capabilities.\n\nIn 1957, a Swedish man, Goesta Frohm, created the \"Skogsmulle\" concept to promote learning about nature, water, mountains and pollution. With an increasing focus on measurable outcomes, forest schools have gained acceptance as an educational method in their own right. In Denmark, nature schools as well as forest kindergartens are popular with both school teachers and children.\n\nThe biophilia hypothesis argues that a love of nature is instinctive. The term nature deficit disorder, coined by Richard Louv in his 2005 book \"Last Child in the Woods\", recognises the erosion of this by the urbanisation of human society. Attention restoration theory and related psychological work has proven health benefits in reduced stress, improved concentration and improved medical outcomes from surgery. Scandinavian countries, rich in woodland, have maintained the human link more closely. Forest schools practice is based on up-to date pedagogy and andragogy.\n\nThis ethos was introduced to the UK during the 1990s from Denmark. The growth of forest school has been unprecedented throughout the UK developing into a separate and distinct model called the UK Model. Bridgwater College in Somerset was the pioneer of the forest school concept in the UK in 1994 after traveling to Denmark to observe the Danish/Nordic Model of Forest Kindergartens for a few days.\n\nVarious government and NGO agencies propose the use of woodland as part of the school educational curriculum; for example the Forest Education Initiative and the Forestry Commission. By 2006, there were approximately 140 forest schools in Britain.\n\nThe governmental agencies have in some cases been set targets for the use of their resources for education or health benefits, or are focused on the educational outcomes and see forestry as a step towards them.\n\nMany businesses and non-profit organizations facilitate forest school long term programmes. In Wales, training and strategic oversight is provided by Forest Schools Wale] and government agencies such as the Forestry Commission who have supported research and the development of practical experience for forest school practitioners. In England, support has been provided by the Forest Education Network (which has replaced the Forest Education Initiative) to those initiating forest school provision. Such provision is provided within schools using their own trained staff or by external independent forest school providers.\n\nMany organisations now offer training courses designed for the UK to enable practitioners to deliver forest school in their own settings and ensure children and teachers work within rich natural experiences. The OCN Level 3 training course is most widely recognised within the UK.\n\nDeveloping from the Institute of Outdoor Learning's (IOL) Forest School Special Interest Group, in June 2012 The Forest School Association was established as an independent UK body.\n\nInspired by international developments, the first Canadian forest school was created by Marlene Power in 2007. It was named Carp Ridge Preschool and was located near Ottawa. In 2012, Power founded and became the executive director of Forest School Canada, an educational initiative of the Child and Nature Alliance of Canada. Forest School Canada is focused on being a \"network for support, education, and accreditation for concepts associated with the FS movement in Canada.\"\n\nThe movement has spread into Canada's provinces and is primary associated with private schools. However, there is emerging support from public schools such as the Nature Kindergarten pilot which is a partnership between the Sooke District School Board and the University of Victoria’s Centre for Early Childhood Research and Policy, Royal Roads University, and Camosun College’s Early Learning and Care Program.\n\nAttempts have been made to copyright and trademark generic terms related to forest school. There is no known protection of the term \"forest school\" or \"forest schools\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26982055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26982055", "title": "Freight Tycoon", "text": "Freight Tycoon\n\nFreight Tycoon is a simulation strategy computer game focused around transporting goods via small and large tonnage trucks. The game was published by the Russian 1C Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "37866722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37866722", "title": "Grigol Robakidze University", "text": "Grigol Robakidze University\n\nGrigol Robakidze University (Georgian: გრიგოლ რობაქიძის სახელობის უნივერსიტეტი [grigol robakidzis saxelobis universiteti])university is established in 1992 in Tbilisi, Georgia. It specialises in Medical i.e Medicine and dentistry, but also has courses in the social sciences, English and German.\n\nThe university was renamed in honor of the Georgian poet and thinker, Grigol Robakidze. It is one of the oldest in nongovernmental (private) High Educational Institutions in Georgia.\n\n\nThe university's faculties are situated on David Aghmashebeli #13, in the downtown of Tbilisi, Georgia and includes a new building located near US Embassy in the suburb of Tbilisi.\n\n\nInstitutions and Research Centers:\n\nThe library has about 20,000 books and digital material are kept in the library. Service is systematically developed in the library. The electronic library was established in 2010. This enables consumers to choose books and periodicals\n"}
{"id": "15524018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15524018", "title": "HINARI", "text": "HINARI\n\nHINARI Access to Research in Health Programme was set up by the World Health Organization and major publishers to enable developing countries to access collections of biomedical and health literature. There are up to 13,000 e-journals and up to 29,000 online books available to health institutions in more than 100 countries. HINARI is part of Research4Life, the collective name for four programs - HINARI (focusing on health), AGORA (focusing on agriculture), OARE (focusing on environment), and ARDI (focusing on applied science and technology). Together, Research4Life provides developing countries with free or low cost access to academic and professional peer-reviewed content online.\n\nThe HINARI program, and the other programs, were reviewed for the second time in 2010 and the publishers involved have committed to continuing with it until at least 2020. HINARI has received the high honor of the Medical Library Association's 2015 Louise Darling Medal for Collection Development in the Health Sciences.\n\nIn response to a call by the then UN Secretary General Kofi Annan and to a statement issued by Gro Harlem Brundtland the then Director General World Health Organization, HINARI was launched in July 2001 with a statement of intent from six major publishers: Blackwell Publishing, Elsevier, the Harcourt, Wolters Kluwer, Springer Science+Business Media, and John Wiley & Sons. The HINARI name began as an acronym of Health Inter-Network Access to Research Initiative. The use of the full name was later abandoned. The program opened for use in January 2002 with around 1,500 journals from the initial six publishers. , there are almost 200 publisher partners providing their online publications through HINARI. 3,750 journal titles were accessible via HINARI in 2007. Critiques of HINARI argue that the low-cost model is still too high for many institutions and journals with top impact factors are not included in some countries.\n\nEligible categories of institutions are: national universities, professional schools (medicine, nursing, pharmacy, public health, dentistry), research institutes, teaching hospitals and healthcare centers, government offices, national medical libraries and local non-governmental organizations.\n\nThe country lists are based on four factors: Total GNI (World Bank figures), GNI per capita (World Bank figures), United Nations Least Developed Country (LDCs) List and Human Development Index (HDI). In 2007 users and members of eligible institutions in 113 countries had access. In 2016, the number of eligible countries, areas and territories stood at 117. Some large, emerging countries including India and China are excluded by the program because their total GNI exceeds US$1 trillion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "173466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173466", "title": "Hampshire College", "text": "Hampshire College\n\nHampshire College is a private liberal arts college in Amherst, Massachusetts. It was opened in 1970 as an experiment in alternative education, in association with four other colleges in the Pioneer Valley: Amherst College, Smith College, Mount Holyoke College, and the University of Massachusetts Amherst. Together they have since been known as the Five Colleges or the Five College Consortium.\n\nThe college is widely known for its alternative curriculum, socially liberal politics, focus on portfolios rather than distribution requirements, and its reliance on narrative evaluations instead of grades and GPAs. In some fields, it is among the top undergraduate institutions in percentage of graduates who enroll in graduate school. Sixty-five percent of its alumni have at least one graduate degree and a quarter have founded their own business or organization. It is ranked #39 among U.S. colleges and universities by the percentage of graduates who go on to earn a doctorate degree according to National Science Foundation data.\n\nThe idea for Hampshire College originated in 1958 when the presidents of Amherst, Mount Holyoke, and Smith Colleges, and the University of Massachusetts Amherst, appointed a committee to examine the assumptions and practices of liberal arts education. Their report, \"The New College Plan \", advocated many of the features that have since been realized in the Hampshire curriculum: inviting students to self-design their program of studies; training students to be able to educate themselves through their lifetimes; emphasis on each student's curiosity and motivation; learning among and across multiple disciplines; and close mentoring relationships with teachers.\n\nIn 1965, Amherst College alumnus Harold F. Johnson, inspired by the New College Plan, donated $6 million toward the founding of Hampshire College. With a matching grant from the Ford Foundation, Hampshire's first trustees purchased of orchard and farmland in South Amherst, Massachusetts, and construction began.\n\nOne of the most significant founding documents of Hampshire College is the book \"The Making of a College\" (MIT Press, 1967; ), co-written by the College's first president, Franklin Patterson, together with Hampshire's founding employee from Amherst College who would become its second president, Chuck Longsworth. \"The Making of a College\" is (as of 2003) out of print but available in electronic form from the Hampshire College Archives.\n\nHampshire admitted its first students in 1970. For several years immediately after its founding in the early 1970s, the large number of applications for matriculation caused Hampshire College to be among the most selective undergraduate programs in the United States. Its admissions selectivity declined thereafter because of declining application popularity. The school's number of applications increased again in the late 1990s, causing increased admissions selectivity since then. The college's rate of admissions is now comparable to that of many other small liberal arts colleges.\n\nThe school has been financially challenged through much of its history, in large part because it lacked a founding endowment to rely on for stability of income, and it has relied substantially on tuition income for operations. As of June 30, 2017, the endowment had risen to $48.5 million. In recent years, the school has been on more solid financial footing, though still lacking a sizable endowment. In recent years its financial stability has relied on fundraising efforts led by its most recent president, Jonathan Lash.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, the college began establishing a \"cultural village\" making possible the residence of independent non-profit organizations on its campus. The cultural village includes the National Yiddish Book Center, the Eric Carle Museum of Picture Book Art and The Hitchcock Center for the Environment.\n\nAdele Simmons served as the College's third president, from 1977 to 1989, the longest tenure of any Hampshire President. Gregory Prince served as its fourth president, from 1989 to 2005.\n\nOn April 1, 2004, Prince announced his retirement, effective at the end of the 2004–2005 academic year. On April 5, 2005, the Board of Trustees named Ralph Hexter, formerly a dean at University of California, Berkeley's College of Letters and Science, as the college's next president, effective August 1, 2005. Hexter was inaugurated on October 15, 2005. The appointment made Hampshire one of a small number of colleges and universities in the United States with an openly gay president.\n\nProfessor Marlene Gerber Fried was interim president for one year from 2010 to 2011. Jonathan Lash was named the sixth president of the College in May, 2011, joining Hampshire as an internationally recognized expert on global sustainability, climate change, and environmental challenges and solutions. He has been appointed by two US Presidents to serve on a national environmental council and commission. Lash served a long tenure until 2018, and is followed by the College's seventh president, Miriam Nelson, beginning her appointment in July, 2018.\n\nThe Hampshire College Archives in the Harold F. Johnson Library has extensively documented the College's history between 1965 and 2005, accessible on the College's Website.\n\nOn August 23, 2012, the school announced the establishment of a scholarship fund dedicated to helping undocumented students get degrees. It would give more than $25,000 each year to help an undocumented student pay for the $43,000-plus tuition.\n\nAround 1761, an idea for a new college with a different system was debated among settlers and the Massachusetts government. They proposed calling the new institution Hampshire college which, if successful, would have been completely different from Hampshire College today. A group of 74 people in Hampshire County expressed interest in establishing a new college to train their ministers and civil leaders since the other colleges were expensive and far away. Furthermore, they wanted to establish a system that followed their moral standards and was free of religion. Their proposal was denied by the Massachusetts government in attempt to avoid a competition with Harvard College. At the time, Harvard College was recognized by the state as the most suitable college for training ministers; it was feared a new college would weaken Harvard. The group then sought assistance from Lord Jeffry Amherst who also declined support as to not question the Massachusetts government.\n\nHampshire College describes itself as \"experimenting\" rather than \"experimental\", to emphasize the changing nature of its curriculum. From its inception, the curriculum has generally had certain non-traditional features:\n\nThe curriculum is divided into three \"divisions\" rather than four grade-years:\n\nIn Division I, the student, mentored by a professor as adviser:\na) Completes a minimum of four courses from five broad distribution areas. \nb) Completes three elective courses from Hampshire or the Five Colleges. Independent study and special projects are allowed with adviser approval. \nc) Completes a community-engaged learning activity, devoting 40 hours to campus life\nd) Submits a year-end portfolio of work and faculty evaluations from courses and electives, including an essay reflecting on Division I, and receives a final written evaluation from the adviser.\n\nDrawing on resources at Hampshire and the Five Colleges and advised by a committee of two faculty members, the student: \na) Designs a concentration, starting by writing a plan for four semesters of work that sets out their questions for exploration and goals for developing expertise in the concentration. The plan may be similar to a traditional college major or an original, individualized program encompassing multiple fields, disciplines, and Schools. The plan is considered a contract negotiated with the committee, and may be revised periodically. It may include courses and other activities — independent study/research, community-based learning, internships, study abroad, social action, lab work, teaching/research assistantships, etc. The minimum number of evaluated activities is 12.\nb) Fulfills a Multiple Cultural Perspectives requirement by completing a course/learning activity centered on an exploration of non-Western perspectives, the roles of race and racism in the U.S., or the dynamics of knowledge, power, and privilege. \nc) Fulfills a community-engaged learning requirement by devoting at least 40 hours to addressing a community need by volunteering with a community partner; serving an internship, assistantship, or mentorship; completing a course with a community component.\n\nTo complete Division II, the student compiles and presents a portfolio to the committee, curating the academic work and reflecting on its meaning and on learning. The portfolio consists of selected works (in any medium), evaluations from courses/learning activities, and a Division II reflection, demonstrating that the student has fulfilled the contract. The student receives a final committee evaluation.\n\nThe student forms a committee of at least two faculty members and designs an original, yearlong advanced-study project, one that will demonstrate the student’s ability to handle complex questions, concepts, and skills. The student submits the plan as a contract including a description of the purpose and substantive nature of the project; the approach and techniques to be applied; resources and facilities to be employed; and the form the final project will take. The student meets with the committee regularly to report on progress. Faculty will provide reviews, critiques, and guidance throughout and must find the work sufficient to graduate with a bachelor of arts degree.\n\nTo successfully complete Division III, the student must: \na) Complete the Division III project\nb) Complete at least two advanced learning activities (e.g. courses at the 300 level or above, a teaching assistantship, an internship, or another activity that broadens the scope of the student’s intellectual endeavor and engages the campus or community at large.\n\nThe student submits the final capstone project, performance, presentation, or paper, and meets for the last time with the committee. Committee members write an evaluation of the Division III.\n\nThe Hampshire College faculty are organized broadly in defined Schools of thought: \n\nThe Five College Program in Peace and World Security Studies (PAWSS) is based at Hampshire; its director is Michael Klare.\nThe national reproductive rights organization Civil Liberties and Public Policy (CLPP) operates on Hampshire's campus, where they host an annual conference.\nIn 2014 Hampshire announced the formation of a new concentration, in Psychoanalytic Studies.\n\nHampshire College is the youngest of the schools in the Five-College Consortium. The other schools are Amherst College, Mt. Holyoke College, Smith College and the University of Massachusetts Amherst.\n\nStudents at each of the schools may take classes and borrow books at the other schools, generally without paying additional fees. They may use resources at the other schools, including internet access, dining halls, and so forth. The five colleges collectively offer over 5,300 courses, and the five libraries have over eight million books. The Pioneer Valley Transit Authority (PVTA) operates bus services between the schools and the greater Pioneer Valley area.\n\nThere are two joint departments in the five-college consortium: Dance and Astronomy.\n\nOpened on April 26, 2017, the R.W. Kern Center is the 17th Living Building in the world certified under the advanced green-building standard, the Living Building Challenge. The building cost $10.4 million made possible by private donations. It operates net-zero energy, water, and waste. The building is powered by solar panels on its roof, supplies its own drinking water by harvesting rainwater from its roof, manages its wastewater on site, and contains composting toilets. The Kern Center was built using materials from local sources without the use of any toxic \"red list\" materials; even materials such as duct tape were chosen carefully to comply with strict environmental standards. Currently, the Kern Center houses Admissions and financial aid offices as well as classrooms, student lounges, and a coffee shop. President Jonathan Lash stated that \"[w]ith this building we have sought to reflect our values, in the inclusive design process, the design and materials, our construction practices, and our reporting about the building... [w]hy are buildings constructed any other way? In every way, the Kern Center was built to learn and teach.”\n\nHampshire College will soon become the first college in the United States to be 100% solar powered, a milestone for the college. They wait for permission to switch to full operation of its solar energy. The solar panel array is a part of the college's main goal - to be climate-neutral by 2020 according to their extensive Climate Action Plan developed in April 2012. They begain construction in February 2015. Two witness tests were conducted in June 2017 and its final one conducted November 2017. Since June 2017, a part of the solar array has been powering the college. The solar panels cover 19 acres consisting of 15,000 panels which will eventually produce 4.7 megawatts of power each year. Hampshire College contracted with SolarCity to install the panels.\n\nThe college will save up to $8 million in electricity cost in 20 years and $400,000 yearly. 4.7 megawatts of solar power eliminates 3,000 metric tons of greenhouse-gas emissions per year which is equivalent to 650 less cars on the road. Other solar sources on campus contribute to the main solar array: the Kern Center rooftop solar arrays, the CSA Barn, the president's house, and the Longworth Arts Center canopy atop solar panels. The president stated that \"[t]his is the challenge that our students and every other student is going to face in the next 20 years, how to turn the US economy into a low-carbon economy ... and they're going to get the real firsthand experience of doing it. So that was reason number one.” The president has declared that switching to renewable energy is \"just the right thing to do in an era of accelerating climate change.\" He also noted this project will keep jobs local and prevent \"pipelines being built through people's communities to get power to our college.\" \nIn the next 20 years, the college plans to reduce 50% of current consumption of energy, another major goal stated in their Climate Action Plan. They plan to renovate the Robert Crown Center, Library, Cole Science Center, Franklin Patterson Hall, Merrill House, and Greenwich House. Their plan is possible by a $1 million gift.\n\nSince 2011, Hampshire College has been involved in various projects to \"transform its food systems, campus operations, curriculum and campus culture to embrace sustainability.\" The college's advances in sustainability include various projects. In 2011, the college was the first in the world to divest from fossil-fuels. In 2012, they developed the Climate Action Plan for climate neutrality by 2022. Hampshire College Farm expanded their education and operation, establishing the Center for New England and Agriculture. In 2014 the main traffic circle and parking lot was eliminated and turned into a meadow. They also stopped mowing dozen acres of lawns in hopes of reducing greenhouse-gas emissions, saving landscaping expenses and creating wildlife and plant habitats. In the same year, they installed an electric car-charging station behind the library. In 2015 they permanently protected 46 acres of their property through a conservation restriction. The Kern Center became their first 100% emission-free building in 2016 and the Hitchcock Center for the Environment built its new living building on Hampshire land. In 2017, Hampshire College pledged to continue to support climate action and reduce carbon emissions in accordance with the Paris Climate Agreement. They signed the We Are Still In campaign along with 2,600 total signers.\n\nIn the spring of 2004, a student group calling itself \"Re-Radicalization of Hampshire College (Re-Rad)\" emerged with a manifesto called \"The Re-Making of a College\", which critiqued what they saw as a betrayal of Hampshire's founding ideas in alternative education and student-centered learning. On May 3, 2004, the group staged a demonstration that packed the hall outside the President's office during an administrative meeting. Response from the community was generally amicable and Re-Rad made some progress.\n\nThe Re-Radicalization movement was responding in part to a new \"First-Year Plan\" that changed the structure of the first year of study. Beginning in the Fall of 2002, the requirements for passing Division I were changed so that first-year students no longer had to complete independent projects (see Curriculum above). Re-Rad submitted its own counter-proposal in both 2006 and 2007, but these proposals were not acted on, and no follow-up was attempted.\n\nThe Re-Radicalization of Hampshire College assisted the administration in launching a pilot program known as \"mentored independent study\". This program paired ten third semester students with Division III students with similar academic interests to complete a small study—observed by, and subject to the approval of, a faculty member.\n\nWhile some students worry about what they see as Hampshire's headlong plunge into normality, the circumstances of Hampshire's founding tends to perennially attract students who revive the questions about education the institution was founded on, and who challenge the administration to honor the founding mission. Unsurprisingly, then, Re-Rad was not the first student push of its type. Similar efforts have sprung up at Hampshire with some regularity, with varying impacts. In 1996, student Chris Kawecki spearheaded a similar push called the Radical Departure, calling for a more holistic, organic integration of education into students' lives. The most durable legacy of the Radical Departure was EPEC, a series of student-led non-credit courses. A more detailed account of movements such as these can be found in a history of Hampshire student activities, an account written by alumnus Timothy Shary (F86) that was commissioned by Community Council in 1990; he has subsequently been a faculty member at Clark University of Worcester, Massachusetts, and the University of Oklahoma.\n\nIn May 1977, Hampshire was the first college in the nation to divest from apartheid South Africa. The college removed $39,000 in stocks in four companies. Legal and financial research undertaken by student Michael Current and faculty member Kurtis Gordon was promoted nationally by business activists Douglas Tooley and Debbie Knight. In February 2009 it was reported that Hampshire College had divested from Israel because of its violation of human rights. However, under pressure from pro-Israel groups and high-profile individuals, most notably attorney Alan Dershowitz, the father of a Hampshire alumnus, Hampshire's president stated that the changes in investments were not politically motivated. Hampshire continues to display a statement from Dershowitz on its website, in which the lawyer withdraws his criticism and pledges his support, stating, \"Hampshire has now done the right thing. It has made it unequivocally clear that it did not and will not divest from Israel. Indeed, it will continue to hold stock in companies that do business with Israel as well as with Israeli companies...\"\n\nIn November 2001, a controversial All-Community Vote at Hampshire declared the school opposed to the recently launched War on Terrorism, another national first that drew national media attention, including scathing reports from Fox News Channel and the \"New York Post\" (\"Kooky College Condemns War\"). \"Saturday Night Live\" had a regular sketch, \"Jarret's Room\", starring Jimmy Fallon, which purports to take place at Hampshire College but is inaccurate. It refers to non-existent buildings (\"McGuinn Hall\", which is actually the Sociology and Social Work building at fellow cast member Amy Poehler's alma mater, Boston College) and features yearbooks, tests, seniors, fraternities, three-person dorm rooms, and a football team—none of which the school has ever had (though in the Fall 2005, 2006, and 2007 semesters the college experienced a higher than expected number of freshmen and temporarily had to convert some common spaces into three-person dorms). The sketch also claims that the college is actually in New Hampshire (a common mistake).\n\nAlumnus Ken Burns wrote of the college: \"Hampshire College is a perfect American place. If we look back at the history of our country, the things we celebrate were outside of the mainstream. Much of the world operated under a tyrannical model, but Americans said, 'We will govern ourselves.' So, too, Hampshire asked, at its founding, the difficult questions of how we might educate ourselves... When I entered Hampshire, I found it to be the most exciting place on earth.\" Loren Pope wrote of Hampshire in the college guide \"Colleges That Change Lives\": \"Today no college has students whose intellectual thyroids are more active or whose minds are more compassionately engaged.\"\n\nFollowing the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States, on November 9, 2016, Hampshire students lowered the American flag at the center of campus to half-staff as \"a protest against acts of hate and harassment.\" The next day, school officials announced they would allow the flag to remain at half-staff temporarily. College president Jonathan Lash said in a statement that some of the people on campus felt that the flag was \"a powerful symbol of fear they've felt all their lives because they grew up in marginalized communities, never feeling safe.\" In an incident under investigation by campus police, the flag was burned at some time in the evening of November 10 or the morning of November 11. It was replaced the following day and the school indicated it would continue to fly the flag at half-mast \"to mourn deaths from violence in the U.S. and around the world.\" Following a backlash, the college announced on November 21 that it would temporarily cease flying the flag on campus. This, in turn, led to protests including veterans for restoration of the flag, with sources claiming from 400 attendees to “over a thousand.”<ref>\n"}
{"id": "3750874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3750874", "title": "Higher Learning Commission", "text": "Higher Learning Commission\n\nThe Higher Learning Commission (HLC) is an organization tasked with the regional accreditation responsibilities for post-secondary education institutions in the central United States. The Higher Learning Commission oversees the accreditation of degree-granting colleges and universities in nineteen mostly Midwestern and South-Central states, namely Arkansas, Arizona, Colorado, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, North Dakota, Nebraska, Ohio, Oklahoma, New Mexico, South Dakota, Wisconsin, West Virginia, and Wyoming. The headquarters of the organization is based in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nThe United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation recognize the Commission as the assigned regional accrediting organization. HLC grew out of the higher education division of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools (NCA). The NCA dissolved in 2014.\n\nThe Higher Learning Commission has five major criteria for accreditation. They are:\n(1) Mission,\n(2) Ethics,\n(3) Teaching and Learning: Quality, Resources, and Support,\n(4) Teaching and Learning: Evaluation and Improvement,\nand (5) Resources, Planning, and Institutional Effectiveness.\n\nIn 2009, the Office of the Inspector General of the US Department of Education (OIG-ED) criticized the Higher Learning Commission's oversight of for-profit colleges and recommended that the agency consider \"limiting, suspending, or terminating the organization's status.\"\n\nIn 2010, the OIG reaffirmed their recommendation that the department consider sanctions for the HLC. It also critically reviewed the accreditation status of American InterContinental University and the Art Institute of Colorado, two for-profit colleges.\n\nIn 2015, the OIG-ED issued a critical audit on the review process the HLC used while considering colleges’ proposals for competency-based credentials.\n\n"}
{"id": "49590286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49590286", "title": "International Committee of Historical Sciences", "text": "International Committee of Historical Sciences\n\nThe International Committee of Historical Sciences / Comité international des Sciences historiques (ICHS / CISH) is the international association of historical scholarship. It was established as a non-governmental organization in Geneva May 14, 1926. It is composed of national committees and international affiliated organizations devoted to research and to scholarly publication in all areas of historical study. There are currently 51 national committees and 30 international associations members of the CISH.\n\nIts main activity is the organisation of an international conference, the \"International Congress of Historical Sciences\". The last (22nd) took place in August 2015 in Jinan (China), the forthcoming (23rd) is planned in June 2020 in Poznan (Poland).\n\nThe current board is composed by (Instituto italiano di scienze umane Palazzo Strozzi) as president, Eliana Dutra (University of Minas Gerais) and W. (Pim) den Boer (History of European Culture, University of Amsterdam) as vice-presidents, Catherine Horel (Centre national de la recherche scientifique, Université Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne) as general secretary, Laurent Tissot (Université de Neuchâtel, Institut d’histoire) as treasurer, Joel Harrington (Vanderbilt University), Krzysztof Makowski (University of Poznan), Matthias Middell (University of Leipzig, Global and European Studies Institute), LIM, Jie-Hyun (Department of History, College of Humanities), Lorina Repina (Russian Academy of Sciences), TAO, Wenzhao (Institute of American Studies, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences) as ordinary members, Pascal Cauchy (Institut d’Etudes Politique de Paris) as executive secretary and Marjatta Hietala (University of Tampere) as honorary president.\n\nIt awards the CISH-Jaeger-LeCoultre History Prize to \"historian who has distinguished herself or himself in the field of history by her/his works, publications or teaching, and has significantly contributed to the development of historical knowledge\". The last prize (2015) went to (École des hautes études en sciences sociales and CNRS, Paris, France)\n\n"}
{"id": "29077318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29077318", "title": "It Gets Better Project", "text": "It Gets Better Project\n\nIt Gets Better is an Internet-based 501(c)3 nonprofit founded in the United States by gay activist, author, media pundit, and journalist Dan Savage and his husband Terry Miller on September 21, 2010, in response to the suicides of teenagers who were bullied because they were gay or because their peers suspected that they were gay. Its goal is to prevent suicide among LGBT youth by having gay adults convey the message that these teens' lives will improve. The project has grown rapidly: over 200 videos were uploaded in the first week, and the project's YouTube channel reached the 650 video limit in the next week. The project is now organized on its own website, the It Gets Better Project, and includes more than 50,000 entries from people of all sexual orientations, including many celebrities; the videos have received over 50 million views.\n\nA book of essays from the project was released in March 2011. The project was given the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences Governor's Award at the 64th Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards for \"strategically, creatively and powerfully utilizing the media to educate and inspire,\" according to the academy's chairman and CEO Bruce Rosenblum.\n\nThe project was founded by Savage in response to the suicide of Billy Lucas and other teenagers who were bullied because they were gay or perceived to be, such as with Raymond Chase, Tyler Clementi, Ryan Halligan, Asher Brown, and Seth Walsh. Savage wrote, \"I wish I could have talked to this kid for five minutes. I wish I could have told Billy that \"it gets better\". I wish I could have told him that, however bad things were, however isolated and alone he was, \"it gets better\".\" In September, they launched their YouTube channel. A one-hour special aired on February 21, 2012, hosted by Savage. A second hour long \"It Gets Better\" special was aired on both MTV and Logo networks on October 9, 2012. On May 3, 2011, a video ad developed by Google Chrome was launched during an episode of Glee and later aired across the nation.\n\nFormer U.S. President Barack Obama lent his voice to the movement against bullying and contributed a video on October 21, 2010, saying, \"We've got to dispel this myth that bullying is just a normal rite of passage; that it's just some inevitable part of growing up. It's not. We have an obligation to ensure that our schools are safe for all of our kids. And for every young person out there you need to know that if you're in trouble, there are caring adults who can help.\" In March 2011, Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama hosted an anti-bullying conference.\n\nA viral response to the campaign posits that for some, \"It Doesn't Get Better.\" Critic Tavia Nyong’o has linked the project to an upward mobility available to an exceptional class of urban liberal gays. Criticism acknowledges that the project focuses on white, middle-class, and cisgender men, while largely ignoring the lives of genderqueer and transgender people, lesbians, people of color, and the lower-class. Embracing Intersectional Diversity Project is an alternative video campaign started by Latoya Peterson recognizing the influence of racism on homophobic bullying. Laurel Dykstra points out that American and Canadian Aboriginal youth may have a higher suicide rate than queer youth. \n\nThe project operates as a 501(c)(3) charitable organization.\n\nPeople and groups named on this list as notable \"It Gets Better\" video contributors are linked to associated articles and include footnotes with an external link to their video and any other relevant citations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn Australia, the organisation It Gets Better Australia was established as the official Australian affiliate to the US based It Gets Better Project in 2011. It is supported by well-known members of the community including Ministers Kevin Rudd and Anna Bligh who have made their own YouTube videos. Rudd is quoted as saying \"You have the strength of the Australian nation behind you\", encouraging teenagers to feel comfortable in their own identity. Other Australian figures to have supported the regional project include Triple J, Telstra, Optus, Missy Higgins, Courtney Act and Kerryn Phelps.\n\nOne organization, It Gets Better Canada, created a 12-minute video which featured a number of Canadian LGBT public figures, including Deb Pearce, Rick Mercer, Rex Harrington, Ann-Marie MacDonald, Enza Anderson, Diane Flacks, Brad Fraser, Mark Tewksbury, George Smitherman, Peter Fallico, Laurie Lynd and the cast of \"1 Girl 5 Gays\", talking about their own experiences of coming out in a documentary interview format. In addition to the Trevor Project, this video also endorsed two similar Canadian services, Kids Help Phone and Toronto's Lesbian Gay Bi Trans Youth Line. A similar video was subsequently released by a group of Canadian Broadcasting Corporation employees, including national network figures such as Jian Ghomeshi, Sook-Yin Lee, W. Brett Wilson and Brent Bambury as well as numerous other staffers and freelancers, speaking about their experiences of bullying on a variety of issues, including sexuality, race and disability. Former politicians Michael Ignatieff and Jack Layton also released videos when they were in office.\n\nFollowing the 2011 suicide of Ottawa teenager Jamie Hubley, an It Gets Better-themed video dedicated to Hubley, filmed on Parliament Hill and featuring commentary by Parliament staffers, Conservative members of parliament including John Baird, Vic Toews, Lois Brown, Alice Wong, Mike Wallace, Rona Ambrose, Shelly Glover, Deepak Obhrai, Candice Hoeppner and David Sweet and Conservative Senator Don Meredith was posted to YouTube on October 20, 2011. Former law clerk for the Federal Court Josh D. Scheinert noted on \"The Huffington Post\" that many of the participant legislators in the video had voted against the legalization of same-sex marriage in 2005 and that a few had ties to anti-gay organizations, but he concurred with Dan Savage's opinion that the video was a first, but not final, step for the Conservative Party towards better relations with LGBT citizens in Canada.\n\nIn addition, comedian Rick Mercer — who had previously made an earlier, more lighthearted \"It Gets Better\" video — devoted a weekly \"rant\" on \"Rick Mercer Report\" to an updated comment on the subject, making an impassioned plea for LGBT public figures to come out on the grounds that Hubley's death had made it unacceptable to stay silent anymore. Mercer — who first came out as gay in 2009 — faced some criticism for not explicitly reminding viewers in the video that he is gay himself; he subsequently appeared on CBC Radio One's \"The Current\" to talk about the video and his own experience as a gay man.\n\nIn 2012, a group video was also released by twenty Royal Canadian Mounted Police officers.\n\nThe project \"Todo Mejora\" (\"Everything Gets Better\") was launched on March 20, 2012 in Chile. In August 2011 the activist Júlio Cezar Dantas raised the idea of creating a Spanish version of the original site along with the U.S. coordinators of It Gets Better. They identified and contacted the Chilean organization Fundación Iguales (\"Equal Foundation\") to support the initiative. The organization agreed to work, and make an alliance, with \"Proyecto Todo Mejora\" (\"Everything Gets Better Project\"). The Chilean project also aims to support, together with the coordinators of It Gets Better U.S., other countries in Latin America who want to create a \"Todo Mejora\" project in their nations.\n\nIn Finland, numerous celebrities including Ministers Tuija Brax and Alexander Stubb appeared on a YouTube video \"Kaikki muuttuu paremmaksi\" (\"Everything Will Get Better\") encouraging teenagers to feel comfortable with their sexuality.\n\nOne of the Vice-Presidents of the European Commission and the European Commissioner for Digital Agenda, Neelie Kroes, recorded an \"It Gets Better Europe\" video.\n\nIn Italy, Isbn Edizioni launched the campaign \"Le cose cambiano\" (literally, Things Change), the Italian affiliate of the project.\n\nIn Malaysia, the organizers of the festival Seksualiti Merdeka produced a series of videos within the vein of the It Gets Better Project featuring bloggers such as Azwan Ismail, Pang Khee Teik, Gary Ooi, Jerome Kugan, Joe Pang, Kavidha Natarajan, Michelle Nor Ismat, Nabila Nasir, Nisha, Peter Ong, Seetha, Sharaad Kuttan, Sulastri and Tina Fazlita Fadzil. Alvin Ng. Ismail's video, which was addressed directly to gay Muslims in the country, resulted in anonymous death threats being issued against him. The videos were inspired by an interview of Gabrielle Yong, a 21-year-old Malaysian openly bisexual student who attempted suicide while studying abroad in Massachusetts; while her attempt was due to the difficulty of adjustment in a different environment, she was inspired to contribute her own testimony in the vein of the project.\n\nThe Paraguayan versión was launched on December 10, 2013 as \"Todo Mejora Paraguay\" trying made différents with Chile version. It was an initiative of the journalist Diego Bazán as a project inside the LGBT organization ParaGay, working in the wellnes, to promote and empowerment in human rights to LGBT youth across of the country. It was independence on November 2016 as a not profit organization with the new name in English \"It Gets Better Paraguay\", now they continue working with LGBT youth in some service, one of the called \"Hora Segura\" where psychologist trying to content, support and help to any people who write and needs contention by social media networks.\n\nThe Peruvian version was launched on January 7, 2011 as \"Proyecto Todo Mejora\" (\"Everything Gets Better Project\"). It was an initiative of psychologist/journalist Victor Cerna. It has engaged some of the leading Peruvian political and show business leaders on the subject of LGBT bullying, including former vice-presidential nominee Carlos Bruce and Lima mayor Susana Villarán. Although originally inspired by the American project, the Peruvian project has created its own logo and has expanded its original message to straight youth in recent months.\n\nAndrew Barry recorded various videos at the University of Cape Town, including one featuring the captain of the university's Ikey Tigers rugby team, Nick Fenton-Wells.\n\nIn Sweden, TV3 (via Meter Television) and the Swedish Save the Children launched the campaign \"Det blir bättre\". The campaign did not target LGBT youth but rather all youth, not wanting to exclude heterosexual children, and was criticized for watering down the concept. The campaign was later relaunched under the same name but as a grass-roots movement and with a focus on LGBT youth.\n\nThe former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom David Cameron, other UK Members of Parliament, members of the UK armed forces, schoolteachers, comedians, actors, media presenters, journalists, writers, students, sportspeople, parents, DJs, and other celebrities and members of the public have recorded videos for a similar project called \"It gets better... today\", with the strapline \"We can make it happen\" for the UK lesbian, gay and bisexual rights charity Stonewall, which was inspired by the original American project, and is part of Stonewall's anti-homophobic bullying in schools and anti-discrimination campaign. They have also collected statements of support from other celebrities, some of them from outside the UK, for example Katy Perry, Beverley Knight, Christina Aguilera, Danny Miller and Marc Silcock, Kieron Richardson, Ian 'H' Watkins, Jon Lee, Amy Lamé, Joe McElderry, Sarah Waters, John Amaechi, Skunk Anansie, and Stella Duffy, and has also inspired other organisations to take part, such as The Co-operative Group and Tesco.\nIn October 2011 several lesbian UK musicians got together to record the song 'It Does Get Better' under the banner of The L Project, an anti-LGBT-bullying fundraising initiative led by Georgey Payne (of lesbian band Greymatter) and Sofia Antonia Milone (of Geekgirl). The song's aim, with accompanying video, is to raise funds for charities Stonewall and Diversity Role Models for their work addressing the issue of LGBT bullying in schools, and also to help spread the message that it gets better. The song reached number 11 in the Official UK independent singles chart in February 2012, the week it was released, and spent several days at the top of the UK iTunes and Amazon rock and folk/rock charts.\n\nIn May 2011, Daniel R. Frey and Fabio Huwyler started the Swiss affiliate of the Project. Both work at gayRadio, a Swiss LGBT-Radiobroadcast. Frey and Huwyler named their Project \"Es Wird Besser Schweiz\", the German translation of the sentence \"It Gets Better Switzerland\".\n\nIn May 2014, Todo Mejora Monterrey started as a local affiliate in the Mexican northern city of Monterrey. In June of the same year, the project expanded at the national level, known as It Gets Better México. Alex R. Orué, one of the contributors to the It Gets Better book, joined the group lead by Rubén Maza and serves currently as their Executive Director.\n\nThe project has earned collaborations from public figures in Mexico, such as actor and singer Mauricio Martínez, politologist and writer Genaro Lozano, activist and journalist Enrique Torre Molina, blogger and radio host Johnny Carmona and singer and songwriter Jaime Kohen\n\nIn March 2011, \"\", a book of essays edited by Dan Savage and Terry Miller on the same theme as the web video project, was released. It contains more than 100 essays, some transcribed or expanded from the videos, and others original. Contributors include Jennifer Finney Boylan, Gregory Maguire, Meshell Ndegeocello, Michael Cunningham, Suze Orman, and David Sedaris. The book is published by Dutton Penguin. It made the \"New York Times\" bestseller list.\n\n"}
{"id": "661397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=661397", "title": "Junior school", "text": "Junior school\n\nA Junior school is a type of school which provides primary education to children, often in the age range from 8 and 13, following attendance at Infant school which covers the age range 5–7. (As both Infant and Junior schools are giving Primary Education pupils are commonly placed in a unified building housing the age ranges of both Infants and Juniors – a Primary school).\n\nIn Australia, a junior school is usually a part of a private school that educates children between the ages of 2 and 5. \n\nIn South Australia a junior primary school, it is where a child will begin their education, usually in or before the year level preceding Year 1. Depending on the school, a child will move to the main primary school between the ages of 3 in 8\n\nIn most primary schools, the junior primary is located within the same buildings and grounds as the primary school, although some junior schools are located on an adjacent or separate site.\n\nIn the United Kingdom a junior school is usually a small school serving a particular locality, and is also used by independent schools to refer to the nursery and primary school services they offer. \n\nA junior school forms part of the local pattern of provision for primary education. Most junior schools cater for pupils moving from infant schools from the September following their seventh birthday. Pupils join in Year 3, and stay at the school for four years, leaving at the end of Year 6 when most pupils are aged 11. These four years form Key Stage 2 in the English education system. At the end of this time, most pupils will move to a secondary school. \n\nIn the late 1960s and early 1970s, a significant number of junior schools were abolished in favour of 2–5 middle schools, and while some of these remain open today the majority of them have been abolished in favour of a return to traditional 7–11 junior schools.\n\nIn some London boroughs, a JMI is a \"junior mixed infant school\" which caters to children aged 4 to 11. Some have been renamed to the more common \"primary school\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8578530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8578530", "title": "Karl Seebach", "text": "Karl Seebach\n\nKarl Seebach (June 28, 1912 in Munich – July 18, 2007 in Munich) was a German mathematician.\n\nSeebach earned his doctorate at the University of Munich under Heinrich Tietze and Arnold Sommerfeld, in 1938. From 1977 to 1981, he held the Chair for Didactics of Mathematics at the University of Munich.\n\nSeebach was the author of many mathematics textbooks for the Gymnasium.\n\n"}
{"id": "11709240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11709240", "title": "Koululainen", "text": "Koululainen\n\nKoululainen () is a Finnish magazine directed at children and youths. \n\n\"Koululainen\" was founded in 1944. The magazine is published monthly by Otavamedia Oy and has its headquarters in Helsinki. The editor-in-chief of the magazine is \"Elli Mäkilä\". The target audience is children age 7-12 years. It treats, among other things, schooling, music, books, pets and sport. The magazine is published monthly. In addition to articles, the magazine contains lots of different competitions. A special, thicker, issue called \"Räppäri\", appears in the summer.\n\n"}
{"id": "35581677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35581677", "title": "List of universities, colleges and schools in Casablanca", "text": "List of universities, colleges and schools in Casablanca\n\nA List of universities, colleges and schools in Casablanca:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "802011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=802011", "title": "Mackenzie Phillips", "text": "Mackenzie Phillips\n\nLaura Mackenzie Phillips (born November 10, 1959) is an American actress and singer best known for her roles in \"American Graffiti\", as rebellious teenager Julie Mora Cooper Horvath on the sitcom \"One Day at a Time\", and for the Disney Channel science fiction show \"So Weird\".\n\nBorn in Alexandria, Virginia, she is the daughter of John Phillips, singer in The Mamas & the Papas, and his first wife, Susan Adams. She is the sister of Jeffrey Phillips and a half-sister of Tamerlane Phillips, actress Bijou Phillips, and singer Chynna Phillips.\n\nPhillips attended Highland Hall Waldorf School in Northridge, California. At age 12, Phillips formed a band with three of her classmates and was spotted by a casting agent during one of their performances. She was given an audition for a role in the 1973 hit film \"American Graffiti\", which she won.\n\nPhillips was 12 years old during the filming of \"American Graffiti\", and 13 when the movie was released. She was cast as Carol Morrison, a young girl accidentally picked up by hot rodding teenager John Milner (Paul Le Mat). Because of California state law, producer Gary Kurtz became Phillips' legal guardian for the duration of the filming.\n\nPhillips gained stardom in the 1970s, when she played boy-crazy teenager Julie Cooper (when the character got married, her married name was Horvath) on the long-running television show \"One Day at a Time\", for which she earned $50,000 (equal to $ today) a week. During the show's third season in 1977, Phillips was arrested for disorderly conduct. Because of her drug and alcohol abuse, Phillips began arriving late and was even incoherent for rehearsals. The producers ordered her to take a six-week break to overcome her addiction but were ultimately forced to fire her in 1980.\n\nAfter two near-fatal overdoses, Phillips voluntarily entered Fair Oaks Hospital to undergo treatment. After she completed treatment in 1981, the producers of \"One Day at a Time\" invited her back to the show. However, in 1982, Phillips resumed her cocaine use and the following year, she collapsed on the show's set. When she refused to take a drug test, she was fired again, this time for good. Her character was written out of the series. In 1992, she entered a long-term drug rehabilitation program and underwent intensive treatment for nine months.\n\nFrom the mid 1980s to the early 1990s, Phillips performed with a re-formed version of The Mamas & the Papas, known as The New Mamas and The Papas.\n\nIn 1999, Phillips co-starred with Cara DeLizia in the Disney Channel series \"So Weird\", playing a fictional rock star named Molly Phillips. She sang original songs written by show producers Jon Cooksey and Ann Marie Montade. In 2002, she appeared in the Disney Channel original movie \"Double Teamed\". Phillips guest-starred on episodes of \"ER\", \"Without a Trace\", \"7th Heaven\", and \"Cold Case\".\n\nPhillips won an Honorary Best Actress award on March 20, 2011, at the closing night awards gala of the Female Eye Film Festival in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, for her performance as Sharon in the 2010 independent film \"Peach Plum Pear\". While in Toronto, she was interviewed on \"Canada Am\", \"ET Canada\", and \"The Marilyn Denis Show \".\n\nShe currently works at the Breathe Life Healing Center in West Hollywood, California, as a drug rehab counselor.\n\nIn 2017, Phillips appeared in an episode of the rebooted \"One Day at a Time\", featured as Pam Valentine. The role was apt, given Phillips' history: she portrayed a counselor. \n\nIn 2018, Phillips appeared as Barbara Denning in multiple episodes of Netflix original \"Orange is the New Black\".\n\nPhillips has been married three times: first to rock group manager Jeffrey Sessler, son of Freddie Sessler (from 1979 to 1981); then to rock guitarist Michael Barakan – now known professionally as Shane Fontayne (1986-2000). She has one child, son Shane Barakan (born 1987), a musician. Her third marriage was in June 2005 to Keith Levenson.\n\nPhillips has had a lifetime troubled by drug abuse. On August 27, 2008, she was arrested by the Los Angeles Airport Police on charges of possession of cocaine and heroin after she went through airport security screening. On October 31, 2008, she pleaded guilty to one felony count of cocaine possession, and was sentenced to a drug rehabilitation program. Phillips' drug case was dismissed after she successfully completed a drug diversion program.\n\nShe appeared on the third season of \"Celebrity Rehab\", which aired in January and February 2010. She later discussed her recovery on the March 17, 2010, episode of \"The View\".\n\nIn September 2009, Phillips's memoir \"High on Arrival\" was released, after which she appeared on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" for an hour-long interview. She told Winfrey that she first tried cocaine when she was 11 years old, and that her father had taken drugs with her, and had also injected her with cocaine.\n\nDuring the interview, Phillips read excerpts from her book. She said that at the age of 19, on the night before her first wedding, \"I woke up that night from a blackout to find myself having sex with my own father\", and that when she confronted her father months later, asking why he had raped her, her father simply replied, \"Raped you? Don't you mean we made love?\"\n\nPhillips told Oprah Winfrey of having a consensual sexual relationship with her father, describing her participation as \"sort of Stockholm Syndrome, where you begin to love your captor.\"\n\nGeneviève Waïte, who was John's wife at the time MacKenzie claimed the incest first began, denies the allegations, saying they were inconsistent with his character. Michelle Phillips, John's second wife, also stated that she had \"every reason to believe [Mackenzie's account is] untrue.\"\n\nHowever, Chynna Phillips, Mackenzie's half-sister and Michelle Phillips' daughter, stated that she believed Mackenzie's claims and that Mackenzie first told her about the relationship during a phone conversation in 1997, approximately 11 years after the supposed relationship had ended.\n"}
{"id": "54767236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54767236", "title": "Maths Pathway", "text": "Maths Pathway\n\nMaths Pathway is an online educational website based in Melbourne, used in Australian schools to teach mathematics. It differs from traditional mathematics teaching, as it is set up in a modular format, with students working on individual pieces of learning.\n\nMaths Pathway was created in 2015 by Richard Wilson and Justin Matthys, both teachers that had experienced their nation's decline in mathematics rankings and were concerned about automation leading to jobs requiring higher mathematical skill. It started out as a small website headquartered in a shed in Matthys' lawn, but has grown to be featured in over 170+ schools and is used by 12,000+ students. Wilson and Matthys hope to have most Australian schools use it eventually.\n\nMath Pathway uses a modular format where students select their work based on what proficiency level they are at, as opposed to every student completing the same tasks. Students are then required to be tested on what they have learned every fortnight. To use Maths Pathway, schools must pay a fee for each student.\n"}
{"id": "56912191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56912191", "title": "McKinley Blackburn", "text": "McKinley Blackburn\n\nMcKinley L. Blackburn is a U.S.-American economist and currently the James A. Morris Professor of Economics at the University of South Carolina. His research interests include labour economics, econometrics, and economic demography.\n\nMcKinley Blackburn earned a B.S. in economics from the University of South Carolina in 1982, followed by a M.A. and a Ph.D. in economics from Harvard University in 1985 and 1987. Since his graduation, Blackburn has always held a position at the University of South Carolina, first as assistant professor pf economics (1987–93), then as associate professor (1993–98) and finally as full professor (1998-2010). In 2010, he was made the James A. Morris Professor of Economics at the Darla Moore School of Business. In 1989/90, Blackburn spent a year as visiting scholar at the Russell Sage Foundation. In terms of professional service, Blackburn has performed editorial duties for the \"Economics of Education Review\" since 2008. His research has been recognized with the Aldi J.M. Hagenaars Memorial Award (1994) and the Research Development Award of the Darla Moore School of Business.\n\nMcKinley Blackburn's current research focuses on the effects of minimum wages on employment, the econometric estimation of the effect of individual characteristics on wages, and the behaviour of banks in mortgage markets. According to IDEAS/RePEc, Blackburn belongs to the top 6% of economists registered in the database in terms of research output. Key findings of his research include the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "35430397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35430397", "title": "Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology (South Sudan)", "text": "Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology (South Sudan)\n\nThe Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology is a ministry of the Government of South Sudan. The incumbent minister is Peter Adwok Nyaba, while Gabriel Kuc Abyei serves as deputy minister.\n\n"}
{"id": "45533910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45533910", "title": "Naoisé O'Reilly", "text": "Naoisé O'Reilly\n\nNaoisé O'Reilly is a psychology expert who develops methods in the areas of expression and psychological profiling. She earned a PhD Doctorate in physical oceanography from the National Oceanography Centre at the University of Southampton, United Kingdom in 2007. The British Library catalogued her PhD dissertation entitled \"Combining Altimetry and Hydrography with Inverse Methods\". Outlined as one of the conclusions, O'Reilly developed an oceanography satellite altimetry and argo float big data scientific research system to analyse the state of the north Atlantic Ocean in three dimensional surface elevations. She graduated from the National University of Ireland, Galway in 2000 with a first class honours degree in marine science. She studied quantitative Earth observations at the University of Oxford and geophysical and environmental fluid dynamics at the University of Cambridge in 2002.\n\nO'Reilly has severe dyslexia and as a teenager an educational psychologist said she was not suited to attend college. She says literacy is not a gauge of intelligence and that \"personality is an inconvenience in school.\" In an education and teaching book about getting high school grades she spoke of introducing reward systems in the home for dyslexic children saying \"the goal should be achievable and have the right level of challenge.\" Interviewed by a journalist in 1999 during her time in university in Ireland O'Reilly said \"school is the worst place for a dyslexic.\" Her methods examine personality theory and four learning styles of auditory, visual, practical and kinesthetic with children and adults in Ireland and around the World. She was Anti-Discrimination Officer for the Students' Union and Student Activist for people with disabilities at the National University of Ireland, Galway in addition to National Disability Rights Officer for the Union of Students of Ireland.\n\nThe observational scientist and physical oceanographer taught at the European Space Agency Earth Observation Summer School in Frascati, Italy in 2004 on a course run for postdoctoral researchers interpreting and using satellite images in Earth science research. She assisted the Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute in developing a UNESCO postgraduate level workshop called the Application of Satellite Altimetry to Oceanography. This was a training course for the western Indian Ocean region run in Africa for postdoctoral students in 2004. She addressed the European Geosciences Union general assembly in Nice, France in 2004 and her works were presented at an Argo Science workshop in Venice, Italy in 2006.\n\nA series of educational methods for students with learning difficulties called the Purple Learning Project were developed by O'Reilly in an education centre she founded in 2009 called the Homework Club located in Blanchardstown, Dublin, Ireland. Classes are not created based on age or academic level but student personality type and ability. Classroom sizes are capped with a maximum of ten students per class taught by honours university graduates trained in O'Reilly's teaching methods. The government of Finland engaged with research from the Irish educationalist. Interviewed for a college in the United States about dealing with difficult children the personality theory researcher and educationalist placed importance on investigating the environment and surroundings when problems frequently emerge to help discover what triggers can spark behaviour. O'Reilly has said \"I read backwards and see the world in reverse. In fact my own PhD research was an inverse method.\" Other educational methods developed by O'Reilly include the Experience Effect and the Gap Effect.\n\nAttention deficit hyperactivity disorder is an area she has been described as an expert in and supporting people with Asperger syndrome, dyslexia, developmental co-ordination disorder, dyscalculia, dysgraphia, hearing impairments, expression disorders and depression.\n\nThe educational innovator made a breakthrough in psychology research with Marie O'Riordan in 2013 by developing the Periodic Table of the Development of Results. The formula is also called Purple Success. O'Reilly has an INFJ personality type.\n\nO'Reilly's the Homework Club was awarded O2 Ability Company status by international disability rights group Kanchi in 2010 along with Citi, EMC, Microsoft Ireland and Trinity College Dublin. Former President of Ireland and former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Mary Robinson was on stage and the awards were broadcast live on Newstalk national radio. Dublin 15 Chamber presented her with two awards for Best New Business 2009 and Small Business of the Year 2010 for the Homework Club. The education centre was nominated for an AIB Innovation in Business Excellence award at the Fingal Business Excellence Awards 2011.\n\nShe called for homework to be banned in schools during an Irish national radio interview in studio with Derek Mooney on the Mooney show on RTÉ Radio One on 11 November 2011. Interviewed by Shane Coleman in studio on Irish national radio show The Right Hook broadcast on Newstalk on 29 October 2015 about plans to ban homework in Oslo, Norway she said Irish people should refuse to do homework and referenced homework boycotts in France.\n"}
{"id": "25695833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25695833", "title": "Nature Exchange", "text": "Nature Exchange\n\nThe Nature Exchange is a specialized learning environment that encourages people to explore nature and actively observe, collect, study and share the world around them. It is a turn-key exhibit, now used in nature-based institutions around North America. Developed by Science North and AldrichPears Associates, the Nature Exchange is an interactive forum where visitors trade ethically collected natural objects and information about them to learn and engage with the natural world. Visitors earn points for each trade, based on criteria such as quality, rarity and their knowledge of the item. Science centers, nature centers and zoos use Nature Exchanges to raise awareness of key issues in the natural world, and, through personal interaction, changes attitudes and behavior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55071696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55071696", "title": "No Isolation", "text": "No Isolation\n\nNo Isolation is a Norwegian startup company from Oslo established October 2015 by Karen Dolva, Marius Aabel and Matias Doyle. The company's mission is “to reduce involuntary loneliness and social isolation by developing communication tools that help those affected.” Their first product, AV1, a robot for children with long-term illness, was launched in the autumn of 2016. Their second product, KOMP, a communication device for seniors, was launched November 2017. No Isolation has won awards for Best Newcomer and Best Social Tech Startup under Nordic Startup Awards in 2016. In 2017, they also received the awards Startup of the Year and Best Social Impact Startup. In 2018, they again got the Social Impact award. No Isolation has their headquarters in Oslo, in addition to having offices in London and Amsterdam. The company currently employs 44 people.\n\nAV1 is the company’s first product. AV1, derived from Audio/Video and Avatar, is a robot that helps combat involuntary loneliness and social isolation for children and young adults with long-term illness. It consists of a camera, speaker and microphone, that helps the child keep up with education in the classroom, as well as stay in contact with family and friends, without being physically present. The robot has two motors, a battery and built-in 4G and WiFi, so that it can be used anywhere. The robot is controlled by a phone or a tablet using a mobile app for iOS and Android.\n\nKOMP is the company's second product. It is a computer, often referred to as a \"screen\", with one button, targeted towards senior citizens.\n\n"}
{"id": "52688805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52688805", "title": "No promo homo laws", "text": "No promo homo laws\n\nNo promo homo laws are laws approved by various U.S. states that prohibit or limit the mention or discussion of homosexuality and transgender identity in public schools. In theory, these laws mainly apply to sex ed courses, but they can also be applied to other parts of the school curriculum as well as to extracurricular activities and organizations such as gay-straight alliances.\n\nThese anti-LGBT curriculum laws can be found in Alabama, Arizona, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, South Carolina and Texas.\n\nThey are similar to Section 28 of the British Local Government Act 1988, introduced on May 24, 1988, which prohibits local authorities from \"intentionally promoting homosexuality, publishing material with the intention of promoting homosexuality, or promoting the teaching in any maintained school of the acceptability of homosexuality as a pretended family relationship.\" The law was repealed in Scotland in 2000, as one of the first actions of the devolved Scottish Parliament, and in the rest of the United Kingdom in 2003.\n\n\"Course materials and instruction that relate to sexual education or sexually transmitted diseases should include . . . an emphasis, in a factual manner and from a public health perspective, that homosexuality is not a lifestyle acceptable to the general public and that homosexual conduct is a criminal offense under the laws of the state.\" Ala. Code § 16-40A-2.\n\n\"No district shall include in its course of study instruction which:\n1. Promotes a homosexual life-style.\n2. Portrays homosexuality as a positive alternative life-style.\n3. Suggests that some methods of sex are safe methods of homosexual sex.\" ARS § 15-716.\n\n\"No sex education course offered in the public schools of the state shall utilize any sexually explicit materials depicting male or female homosexual activity . . . The major emphasis of any sex education instruction offered in the public schools of this state shall be to encourage sexual abstinence between unmarried persons and any such instruction shall: . . . Emphasize abstinence from sexual activity outside of marriage as the expected standard for all school-age children.\" La. R.S. § 17:281.\n\n\"Abstinence-only education shall remain the state standard for any sex-related education taught in the public schools. For purposes of this section, abstinence-only education includes any type of instruction or program which, at an appropriate age . . . [t]eaches the current state law related to sexual conduct, including forcible rape, statutory rape, . . . and homosexual activity . . . and teaches that a mutually faithful, monogamous relationship in the context of marriage is the only appropriate setting for sexual intercourse.\" Miss. Code § 37-13-171.\n\n\"AIDS prevention education shall specifically teach students that: 1. engaging in homosexual activity, promiscuous sexual activity, intravenous drug use or contact with contaminated blood products is now known to be primarily responsible for contact with the AIDS virus; 2. avoiding the activities specified in paragraph 1 of this subsection is the only method of preventing the spread of the virus.\" 70 Okla. Stat. § 11-103.3.\n\n\"The program of instruction provided for in this section may not include a discussion of alternative sexual lifestyles from heterosexual relationships including, but not limited to, homosexual relationships except in the context of instruction concerning sexually transmitted diseases.\" S.C. Code § 59-32-30(A).\n\n\"The materials in the education programs intended for persons younger than 18 years of age must: (1) emphasize sexual abstinence before marriage and fidelity in marriage as the expected standard . . . and (2) state that homosexual conduct is not an acceptable lifestyle and is a criminal offense under Section 21.06, Penal Code.\" Tex. Health & Safety Code § 85.007.\n\n\"Course materials and instruction relating to sexual education or sexually transmitted diseases should include: emphasis, provided in a factual manner and from a public health perspective, that homosexuality is not a lifestyle acceptable to the general public and that homosexual conduct is a criminal offense under Section 21.06, Penal Code.\" Tex. Health & Safety Code § 163.002.\n\nIn 2006 with the passage of 2006 N.C. Sess. Laws 264,§ 54(a)–(c), the North Carolina State Legislature amended N.C. Gen. Stat. § 115C-81(e1)(3) to remove the prohibition of discussing homosexuality.\n\nOn October 21, 2016, Equality Utah filed a lawsuit with the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah against the Utah State Board of Education to strike down Utah Code § 53A-13-101(1)(c)(iii)(A). On March 8, 2017, the Utah State Legislature passed SB196, which removes the phrase \"the advocacy of homosexuality\" from the law. On March 20, 2017, Governor Gary Herbert signed SB196 into law. The law went into effect on July 1, 2017.\n\nThe repealed statute stated \"[T]he materials adopted by a local school board ... shall be based upon recommendations of the school district's Curriculum Materials Review Committee that comply with state law and state board rules emphasizing abstinence before marriage and fidelity after marriage, and prohibiting instruction in the advocacy of homosexuality.\" Utah Code § 53A-13-101.\n\n"}
{"id": "19801254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19801254", "title": "Nocturnal house", "text": "Nocturnal house\n\nA nocturnal house, sometimes called a nocturama, is a building in a zoo or research establishment where nocturnal animals are kept and viewable by the public. The unique feature of buildings of this type is that the lighting within is isolated from the outside and reversed; i.e. it is dark during the day and lit at night. This is to enable visitors and researchers to more conveniently study nocturnal animals during daylight hours.\n\nInternally, a building usually consists of several glass-walled enclosures containing a replica of the animals' normal environments. In the case of burrowing animals, often their tunnels are 'half-glassed' so the animals can be observed while underground.\n"}
{"id": "30857812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30857812", "title": "One Two Three... Infinity", "text": "One Two Three... Infinity\n\nOne Two Three... Infinity: Facts and Speculations of Science is a popular science book by theoretical physicist George Gamow, first published in 1947, exploring some fundamental concepts in mathematics and science, but written at a level understandable by middle school students up through \"intelligent layman\" adults. The book is illustrated by Gamow.\n\nBeginning with an exploration of elementary numbers, the book opens with a description of the \"Hottentots\" (Khoikhoi), said to have words only for \"one\", \"two\", \"three\", and \"many\", and builds quickly to explore Georg Cantor's theory of three levels of infinity—hence the title of the book. It then describes a simple automatic printing press that can in principle (given enough paper, ink, and time) print all the English works that have ever been, or ever will be, printed (a more-systematic version of the infinite monkey theorem). The author notes that if all the atoms in the Universe, as known in Gamow's time, were such printing presses working in parallel \"at the speed of atomic vibrations\" since the beginning of known time, only an infinitesimal fraction of the job could have yet been completed.\n\nGamow explores number theory, topology, spacetime, relativity, atomic chemistry, nuclear physics, entropy, genetics, and cosmology.\n\nScience writer Willy Ley praised Gamow's book, describing it as an \"admittedly rare ... book which entertains by way of instruction.\" Kirkus Reviews declared it \"a stimulating and provocative book for the science-minded layman\". Theoretical physicist Sean M. Carroll credited \"One Two Three... Infinity\" with setting the trajectory of his professional life. Cognitive scientist Steven Pinker read the book as a child, and has cited it as contributing to his interest in popular science writing. Astrophysicist and science popularizer Neil deGrasse Tyson identified \"One Two Three... Infinity\" as one of two books which had the greatest impact on him, the other being Edward Kasner and James Newman's \"Mathematics and the Imagination\".\n"}
{"id": "53254011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53254011", "title": "Pedagogy of Hope: Reliving Pedagogy of the Oppressed", "text": "Pedagogy of Hope: Reliving Pedagogy of the Oppressed\n\nPedagogy of Hope: Reliving Pedagogy of the Oppressed (Portuguese\": Pedagogia da Esperança: Um reencontro com a Pedagogia do Oprimido\") is a 1992 book written by Paulo Freire that contains his reflections and elaborations on his previous book \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\", with a focus on hope. It was first published in Portuguese in 1992 and was translated into English in 1994 by Robert Barr, with notes from Freire's widow Ana Maria Araújo Freire.\n\n\"Pedagogy of Hope\" is broken up into seven chapters, along with an \"Opening Words\" section and an \"Afterwards\". In the book, Freire offers his reflections on the thinking behind \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\". Unlike in his previous book, Freire centralizes the theme of hope and introduces it as an \"ontological need\". He notes that although hope alone is not enough to achieve liberation, without hope there is no struggle at all. Freire emphasizes the importance of the relationship between educators and students and continues to fight against the banking model of education.\n\nIn the \"Afterwards\", Ana Maria Araújo Freire reflects on her husband's work, and concludes by introducing the triangle of her reading of the world: \"prohibition, liberation, and hope\".\n\nScholar Timothy D. Ireland argues that Freire does not offer anything new in \"Pedagogy of Hope\"; rather, he argues, the merit of the book is Freire's willingness to expound and clarify his work. Denis Collins offers a similar view, noting that he could not identify new concerns or theories put forward by Freire. Mary Ellen Sullivan asserts that Freire has an almost stream of consciousness style of writing, making the translation \"awkward [and] literal\". Conversely, Sarah Hendriks argues that \"Freire's dialogical method of writing, as if he were letting us read the very pages of his personal diary, captivates his audience and thus his message becomes personally applicable to our own lives and practice of education\". Hendriks also critiques Freire's concept of \"unity in diversity\", noting that it is overly focused on class struggle and does not acknowledge how people can be victims of multiple forms of oppression at the same time.\n\nSullivan also asserts that Freire is: \"Uncompromisingly on the side of oppressed peoples everywhere, Freire promotes his philosophically dense ideas with the fervor of a revolutionary.” Additionally, Collins makes a point to acknowledge that Freire \"makes profound apologies for apparent sexism in his earlier writings\". Shelli B. Fowler contends that Freire promoted teaching as acts of creativity--acts that should always be critical and never be mechanical. She also asserts that one of Freire's most fundamental points was that teachers need to teach students how to teach themselves.\n"}
{"id": "10323524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10323524", "title": "Pendidikan Moral", "text": "Pendidikan Moral\n\nIn Malaysia, Pendidikan Moral (Malay for \"Moral Studies\") is one of the core subjects in the Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia (SPM) examination. It is a required subject for all non-Muslim students in the public education system in Malaysia. Muslim students are required to take the Islamic Studies () course. Pendidikan Moral, along with Islamic Studies, is governed by the Department of Islamic and Moral Studies (JAPIM), a branch under the Ministry of Higher Education.\n\nThe core of the syllabus is the 36 moral values (called \"nilai\" in Malay). These values include \"\"Kepercayaan kepada Tuhan\" (creed), \"Bertanggungjawab\" (responsibility) and \"Sikap Keterbukaan\"\" (open-mindedness) among others. The 36 values are divided categorized into 7 major fields of study (called \"bidang\" in Malay), namely: \n\n\nThese values are presented in detail in textbooks and form the basis of corresponding examinations. Each value is defined by the Education Ministry. Answering examination questions requires some interpretation of these definitions.\n\nStudents are required to provide the exact same definitions of each moral value when answering exam questions. If a student misspelled or left out or word or rephrased the definition without changing its meaning, no marks will be given. Not fully memorizing the definitions is the reason why students always fail to secure an A+.\n\nPendidikan Moral is often learned by rote. Teachers in schools tend to concentrate on answering techniques rather than the teaching material provided in the textbook. Instead of interpreting the appropriate value based on the information given, students are taught to look for specific keywords in the description and identify the corresponding moral value. Thus, strict memorization of the values is required without any emphasis on understanding or application. There have been suggestions to reform the system and incorporate other forms of assessment and not rely completely on written examinations but thus far, they have not been implemented.\n\n"}
{"id": "49641600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49641600", "title": "Sino-American Youth Ambassadors", "text": "Sino-American Youth Ambassadors\n\nSino-American Youth Ambassador (SAYA) (Chinese Simplified: 中美青年大使; Pinyin: zhōngměi qīngnián dàshǐ) is an exchange program run by the Ameson Education and Cultural Exchange Foundation seeking to build capacity for campus internationalization and cultural awareness in school campuses. Currently, SAYA program is open to Chinese and American students who serve as cultural ambassadors in both countries.\n\nThe Sino-American Youth Ambassadors (SAYA) program started in 2010 as part of the Ameson Foundation's program with the intention of bringing greater international awareness and cultural diversity in campus with American and Chinese high school students. The SAYA program seeks to build capacity for international education and provide new perspectives on education by exchanging student ambassadors. Each year, SAYA organizes two exchanges: one is American students go abroad in China and the other is Chinese students go abroad in United States. In 2012, approximately 20 American students participated the SAYA program in Beijing No. 4 High School where they learned Chinese language and cultural with SAYA Chinese students and travelled with their Chinese peers. In the return exchange in 2012, SAYA students had an opportunity to meet the U.S. Vice President, Joe Biden and the Chinese current paramount leader, Xi Jinping during the exchange program in Los Angeles. In 2013, approximately 100 Chinese students participated the SAYA program during the Chinese New Year and introduced the Chinese New Year traditions to their American classmates in Belmont High School, Thomas Jefferson High School, and Providence Day School and host families in the community. In return exchanges, students from Branson High School visited Shanghai Gezhi High School, and students from Providence Day School visited Jingling High School’s Hexi campus later in the year 2013.\n\nSAYA programs take place during school holidays. Prior to the exchange, students undergo cultural training to learn about different cultures. During the exchange students immerse themselves in regular classes for a week and travel with their peers for another week. As cultural ambassadors, students share their culture with other students through presentation. After the exchange, students return to their countries and share what they learned with classmates.\n\nSAYA connects American and Chinese high schools interested in cultural exchanges and arranges home-stays for participants. SAYA serves as an intermediary between American and Chinese students to facilitate cultural exchanges in personal level.\n\n"}
{"id": "19744955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19744955", "title": "Southwest Forestry University", "text": "Southwest Forestry University\n\nSouthwest Forestry University (; SWFU) is the largest forestry university in the southwestern part of China. It is a comprehensive university, consisting of 18 professional departments. It is in Kunming city, founded in 1939.\n\nAs of February 2016, the school covered 1800 acres, which includes 1204.1 acres of campus, teaching experimental forest of 693 acres, building area of 450,000 square meters; teaching equipment research equipment worth 123 million yuan; 72 undergraduate majors; 16,451 full-time undergraduate students; 1230 full-time graduate students.\n\nSWFU has 1,170 staff members that include 775 instructors — 86% of whom hold a master’s degree and above. These include 350 professors and associate professors, 18 mentors for PhD candidates. Some of the professors and scholars are well-known domestically and internationally.\n\nThe university raised 253 million Chinese yuan of research funds in the past five years; won one second prize of the State Award for Science and Technology Advancement and 24 other awards for completed projects; and two first prizes of the Natural Sciences Award of Yunnan Province. More than 3,000 papers, 110 monographs and six translated monographs have been published.\n\nThe university has established cooperative and exchange ties with universities and research institutes in the United States, Canada, France, Germany, Netherlands, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Thailand, Philippines and Vietnam for joint research and training of graduate and undergraduate students.\n\nBased on reciprocally transferable credit programs, SWFU has developed joint-education programs for undergraduate students based on the “2+2” models, as well as dispatching exchange graduate students for field practicum mandatory for thesis research with universities in the United States, Canada, Netherlands, Thailand, Poland, and Vietnam.\n\nJoint research and training programs have been conducted in cooperation with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), Rare Conservation, Global Environment Facility (GEF), The Nature Conservancy (TNC), MacArthur Foundation, and Ford Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55239884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55239884", "title": "Stærðfræðikeppni Framhaldsskólanema", "text": "Stærðfræðikeppni Framhaldsskólanema\n\nStærðfræðikeppni Framhaldsskólanema is an annual mathematical olympiad first held in the winter of 1984–1985. It is hosted by the Íslenska Stærðfræðafélagið () and the Natural Sciences's Teacher Association, and the largest competition of its kind in the country. Its goals include increasing the interest of Icelandic secondary school students towards mathematics, and other fields built on a mathematical foundation.\n\nThe contest is held in two parts every winter. First, a qualifier held in October of every year on two difficulty levels; upper level, and lower level. The lower level is intended for first year secondary school students, and the upper level for older students. Those who do well in the qualifier are invited to the final competition, held in March.\n\nAlongside honours and awards, the top students are selected to perform in various mathematical olympiads, including the Baltic Way, the Nordic Mathematical Contest, and the International Mathematical Olympiad.\n"}
{"id": "2234377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234377", "title": "The Carol Duvall Show", "text": "The Carol Duvall Show\n\nThe Carol Duvall Show is an arts and crafts show which aired on the HGTV cable channel from 1994 to 2005 hosted by Carol Duvall. It was also broadcast on the DIY Network from 2005 until late-2009. Recordings of segments from the show can be viewed on their website.\n\nThe show is devoted to demonstrating and teaching a wide variety of crafts from very basic \"cut and glue\" projects to intricate polymer clay creations. Duvall's program was one of the original offerings on the newly founded Home & Garden Television network in 1994, and it has remained one of the lifestyle network's most popular shows throughout its 12-year run. She introduced many polymer clay artists to the community including Judy Belcher, Maureen Carlson, Kim Cavender, Katherine Dewey, Emi Fukushima, Syndee Holt, Debbie Jackson, Donna Kato, Barbara McGuire, Ann Mitchell, Karen Mitchell, Becky Meverden, Lisa Pavelka, Gail Ritchey, Nan Roche, Michelle Ross, and Bob Wiley who have inspired countless polymer enthusiasts.\n\nThe show also featured interviews with crafters and fine artists - painters, sculptors, glass-blowers, etc. with footage of them at work in their studios.\n\nThe cancellation of the show on HGTV caused dismay among many of her fans; whose protests might have influenced the decision to continue broadcasting it on the DIY Network (owned by the same parent company Scripps Networks).\n\n"}
{"id": "38628905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38628905", "title": "Thomas E. Mathews Community School", "text": "Thomas E. Mathews Community School\n\nThe Thomas E. Mathews Community School is a Waldorf-inspired public school serving at-risk students in grades 7 through 12 with the goal of their returning to district public schools. T.E. Mathews Community School is located in Marysville, California and is overseen by the Yuba County Office of Education. The school's mission is \"To provide an educational program which reinforces the physical, emotional and intellectual growth of all students, as well as nurturing love of learning that produces positive and productive members of society.\" \n\nThe T. E. Mathews Community School uses group and individual assignments, storytelling, oral recitation, and thematic lessons infused with the arts to help mitigate existing learning problems and help students to work towards earning the credits they need for high school graduation. Special education services are delivered by the classroom teacher who works in conjunction with a resource teacher. Several festivals and assemblies featuring student work are held throughout the year and parents are encouraged to visit the school often. Total enrollment in the 2009-2010 school year was 30 students, 96.7% of whom were classified by the state as being \"socioeconomically disadvantaged.\"\n\nThe T. E. Mathews School met the federal criteria for Adequate Yearly Progress for the 2009-2010 school year. Preliminary research conducted at Stanford University in 1999 suggested that length of enrollment at T. E. Mathews Community School predicted academic achievement in mathematics and language arts. The author of the study, educational psychologist Ryan Babineaux, felt the students' overall \"excellent\" academic progress, improved social skills and positive attitude toward school could be attributed to the school's nurturing atmosphere and the dedication of its teachers.\n\nThe school's approach to working with at-risk students has received scholarly attention and teacher and student experiences at the T.E. Mathews School are also described in the book \"The Flickering Mind: Saving Education from the False Promise of Technology\" by Todd Oppenheimer.\n"}
{"id": "17937670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17937670", "title": "UNISIST model", "text": "UNISIST model\n\nThe UNISIST model of information dissemination was proposed in 1971 by the United Nations. UNISIST (United Nations International Scientific Information System) is a model of the social system of communication, which consists of knowledge producers, intermediaries, and users. These groups of people (or actors) are different kinds of professionals. The social system also contains institutes such as research institutes, publishers, and libraries. The actors and institutions perform information services such as writing, publishing, storing and retrieving documents and information. The actors are communicating in both formal and informal ways and they are producing different kinds of documents such as journal articles, books, book reviews, proceedings, bibliographies and catalogues, dictionaries, handbooks, encyclopedias and review articles.\n\nThe UNISIST model can be used to define relations between various kinds of scientific and scholarly documents and to compare various domains and their discursive practices. It provides a classification of documents and information services into primary, secondary and tertiary services and products. \n\nThe original UNISIST model has been updated. The two most important reasons for the updated version have been:\n\n"}
{"id": "2378658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2378658", "title": "Undeb Cenedlaethol Athrawon Cymru", "text": "Undeb Cenedlaethol Athrawon Cymru\n\nUndeb Cenedlaethol Athrawon Cymru (Welsh, the sole official name, meaning 'National Union of Teachers of Wales') commonly referred to as UCAC, was formed in Wales from a split from the NUT in the late 40's over the issue of the Welsh language in teaching. It has around 4,000 members, who are nearly all Welsh speakers, representing mainly teachers in Welsh medium schools or teachers of Welsh in English medium schools. It accounts for about 15% of the total teacher workforce in Wales.\n\nIt is affiliated to the UK TUC (since 1994), since under current TUC rules it is not permissible to affiliate only to TUC Cymru.\n\nIts main office is in Aberystwyth, Ceredigion.\n\nAs well as representing its members at all levels it also campaigns for an independent education system for Wales.\n\n"}
{"id": "40915717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40915717", "title": "United States Agricultural Information Network", "text": "United States Agricultural Information Network\n\nThe United States Agricultural Information Network (USAIN), created in 1988, provides a forum for issues in agricultural information, provides a leadership role in the formation of national information policy for agriculture, and advises the National Agricultural Library.\n\nThe original network was based on a recommendation from the 1982 Interagency Panel of the National Agricultural Library (NAL). It consisted of a network of public and private agricultural libraries and information centers coordinated by the NAL. Originally, the Executive Council was composed of representatives from land grant and other institutions, and the director of NAL, in an ex-officio capacity. By 1995, the Executive Committee moved from an organization-based network to an individual-based organization, transferring the responsibility for the operations to individuals. At the 1995 USAIN Conference held in Lexington, Kentucky, a slate of grassroots-working agricultural information professionals emerged as the new Executive Council.\n\nUSAIN holds biennial conferences on current themes in agricultural information. This includes collection management and preservation, data management and scholarly communication, curriculum and instruction, outreach and marketing, and national information policy. \n\nUSAIN’s preservation plan for agricultural literature, one of the first discipline-based plans, obtained several rounds of funding from the National Endowment for the Humanities and resulted in 29 state projects,\n\nUSAIN recently partnered with Agriculture Network Information Center (AgNIC) and the Center for Research Libraries on Project Ceres, which awards funding for “small projects that preserve print materials essential to the study of the history and economics of agriculture and make those materials accessible through digitization.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3099398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3099398", "title": "Virginia Law Weekly", "text": "Virginia Law Weekly\n\nVirginia Law Weekly is a weekly newspaper published by students at the University of Virginia School of Law each Wednesday of the school year, excluding breaks and exam periods. In 2006, 2007, 2008, 2017, and 2018, the \"Law Weekly\" was recognized as Best Law School Newspaper by the Law Student Division of the American Bar Association. \n\n\"Virginia Law Weekly\" was first printed in 1948 and has been cited by several courts in published judicial opinions, including the U.S. Supreme Court (Patterson v. New York (1977)), the Fifth Circuit (Thermo King v. White's Trucking Service, 292 F.2d 668 (5th Cir. 1961)), and numerous state courts.\n\n\"Virginia Law Weekly\" was first published online in the late 1990s, providing a downloadable PDF version of each week's edition. Features Editor Joey Katzen '07 relaunched the website as a full-featured interactive newspaper site in the spring of 2005. Technology Editor David Markoff '17 redesigned the website in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "13750218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13750218", "title": "Wendy Watson Nelson", "text": "Wendy Watson Nelson\n\nWendy L. Watson Nelson (born 1950) is a Canadian-American marriage and family therapist, and professor. She worked with the Family Nursing Unit at the University of Calgary (U of C) from 1983 to 1992, training graduate students to use family systems therapy with families of patients. Her academic work in articles and in the book \"Beliefs: The Heart of Healing in Families and Illness\" helped develop a practical and theoretical framework for family systems nursing. She is the wife of Russell M. Nelson, president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.\n\nWendy Watson grew up in Raymond, Alberta. She is the second of three children born to Leonard David and Laura McLean Watson. She studied at the Calgary General Hospital School of Nursing for her RN certification in 1970. She earned a bachelor's degree in psychology from the University of Hawaii at Manoa in 1973 and a master's degree in marriage and family therapy at Brigham Young University (BYU) in 1975.\n\nBeginning in 1980, Watson practiced as a marriage and family therapist part-time, which she continued until at least 2004. She started teaching at the U of C as an assistant professor in the faculty of nursing in 1981, and completed a Ph.D. in family therapy and gerontology there in 1984. In 1986 she became an associate professor in the faculty of nursing.\n\nWatson co-edited \"The Cutting Edge of Family Nursing\" in 1990, in which she co-authored a chapter describing the Family Nursing Unit (FNU) at the U of C, a unit that provided family therapy to patients and training to graduate nursing students. This work was a clinical application of the family systems nursing taught at the University's nursing program. The family systems nursing approach used knowledge of nursing and family therapy to focus on the family as the \"unit of care\", where \"the family's ability to change depends upon their ability to alter their perception of the problem\". Watson was the education coordinator in the FNU from 1983 to 1992. In her work with the FNU, she wrote and produced five educational videos. The U of C awarded her a Teaching Excellence Award in 1991.\n\nIn 1993, she joined BYU's school of family life as an associate professor in the marriage and family therapy graduate program. From 1994 to 1997, she was a reviewer for the \"Journal of Family Nursing\". In 1996, she co-authored with Lorraine M. Wright and Janice M. Bell the book \"Beliefs: The Heart of Healing in Families and Illness\". The authors developed the Family Systems Nursing Model, a \"world famous model for family nursing practice\". Larry Mauksch, reviewing the book in \"Families, Systems, and Health\", commended the extensive literature review and approachable prose, but criticized the book's method of identifying and analyzing moments of change in therapy as unscientific. Mauksch wrote that the book \"extended the application of narrative approaches beyond psychosocial problems to broader, biopsychosocial-spiritual contexts\". The book was later translated into Swedish and Japanese. Watson's work on this book and with the Family Nursing Unit is often cited as helping to develop the family systems nursing framework. Watson became a full professor in 1997. She has written many journal articles and book chapters in her academic work.\n\nNelson chaired the BYU Women's Conference in 1999 and 2000. She has spoken internationally at more than 200 scholarly conferences. She retired in May 2006.\n\nShe and Nelson were married in the Salt Lake Temple on April 6, 2006.\n"}
{"id": "4752738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4752738", "title": "Women's Political Council", "text": "Women's Political Council\n\nThe Women's Political Council, founded in Montgomery, Alabama, was an organization that was part of the Civil Rights Movement that was formed to address the racial issues in the city. Members included Mary Fair Burks, Jo Ann Robinson, Irene West, Thelma Glass, and Uretta Adair. The WPC was the first group to officially call for a boycott of the bus system during the Montgomery Bus Boycott, beginning in December 1955. The group led efforts in the early 1950s to secure better treatment for Black bus passengers, and in December 1955 it initiated the thirteen month bus boycott. They helped organize communications to get it started, as well as to support it, including giving people rides who were boycotting the buses. The African Americans of Montgomery upheld the boycott for more than a year.\n\nIt ended in late December 1956, after the United States Supreme Court ruled in \"Browder v. Gayle\" that the state and local laws for bus segregation were unconstitutional, and ordered the state to desegregate public transportation.\n\nThe WPC formed in 1946 as a civic organization for African-American professional women in the city of Montgomery, Alabama. It was Organized by Mary Fair Burks, the chairperson of the English department at Alabama State College and 40 other women, the WPC was a political organization composed of Alabama State College faculty members and the wives of black professional men throughout the city. It was inspired by the Atlanta Neighborhood Union. Many of its middle-class women were active in education; most of WPC's members were educators at Alabama State College or Montgomery's public schools. The organization targeted Montgomery's small population of black middle class women, encouraging their civic involvement and promoting voter registration. About forty women attended the first organizational meeting. Mary Fair Burks, who was head of Alabama State's English department, was the group's first president. Burks decided to form the organization after she was arrested after a traffic dispute with a white woman.\n\nThe group's initial purposes were to foster women's involvement in civic affairs, to promote voter registration through citizenship education, and to aid women who were victims of rape or assault. Many African Americans were illiterate due to centuries of oppression and poverty, they would sometimes fail the literacy test they were forced to take. Other times, they were told they had come to the wrong location for registration or come on the wrong date. One goal of the WPC was to teach adults to read and write well enough to fulfill the literacy requirements for voting. One of its most successful programs was an annual event called Youth City, which taught Black high school students about politics and government and \"what democracy could and should mean\". During election campaigns the WPC worked with the white-only League of Women Voters to inform Black citizens about political candidates.\n\nIn 1949, Jo Ann Robinson, a newly hired English professor at Alabama State College, joined the council. Her firsthand experiences with segregated seating on buses prompted Robinson to succeed Burks as WPC president in 1950 and to shift the council's primary focus to challenging the seating policy. She organized the Women's Political Council and within a month's time they had over a hundred members. They organized a second chapter and a third, and soon they had more than 300 members. They had members in every elementary, junior high, and senior high school. They had them organized from federal and state and local jobs; Wherever there were more than 10 blacks employed, they had a member there.Under her leadership the council grew to over 200 members and expanded to three chapters in different areas of the city. Eventually, there were around three hundred members and all of them were registered to vote.\n\nAs president, she began to study the issue of bus segregation, which affected the many blacks who were the majority of riders on the city system. First, members appeared before the City Commission to report abuses on the buses, such as blacks who were first on the bus being required later to give up seats for whites as buses became crowded. The commission acted surprised but did nothing.\n\nIn Montgomery, black women especially were regularly humiliated by the bus service. Jo Ann Robinson sat down in the white section of a city bus one day without thinking. She was brought to tears by the bus driver who cursed her out for sitting there. The Women's political council was formed because of these indignities.During the early 1950s WPC leaders met regularly with Mayor W.A. Gayle and the city commission to lobby for bus reforms.They complained that the city did not hire any black bus drivers, said that segregation of seating was unjust, and that bus stops in black neighborhoods were farther apart than in white ones, although blacks were the majority of the riders. Although they succeeded in pressuring the city to hire its first Black police officers, they made no progress in their effort to ameliorate bus segregation. Robinson and other WPC members met with bus company officials on their own. The segregation issue was deflected, as bus company officials said that segregation was city and state law. The WPC achieved a small victory, as the bus company officials agreed to have the buses stop at every corner in black neighborhoods, as was the practice in white neighborhoods.\n\nIn May 1954, shortly after the \"Brown v. Board of Education\" United States Supreme Court decision was announced, Robinson wrote a letter to Mayor W. A. Gayle saying that there was growing support among local black organizations for a bus boycott.\n\nBy 1955, there was growing dissatisfaction with the segregated bus system. The WPC decided that when the right person got arrested, they would initiate a boycott. When Claudette Colvin, a fifteen-year-old high school student was arrested in March 1955, for refusing to give up her seat, the WPC and other local civil rights organizations began to discuss a boycott. Colvin's arrest and conviction angered and unified the Black community, but when they discovered that the unmarried Colvin was pregnant, they did not want to use her as the point person, as she would not have commanded support among the religious and conservative blacks. \n\nRosa Parks, the secretary of the Montgomery chapter of the NAACP, was arrested in December 1955; she, the NAACP, and the WPC agreed that she could be the lead for a boycott. At a meeting of about fifty people in the basement of the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church, a part of the 1965 historic route of the Selma to Montgomery trial, on December 2, 1955 Rosa Parks first told the story of her arrest and the group decided to mount a bus boycott. What participants initially decided was to have a one-day boycott on Monday December 5, but because the boycott that day was so successful, discussion of continuing it began at a meeting afterward at the church due to the fact that roughly 70 percent of Montgomery's bus passengers were black and most stayed off the buses. A few years earlier, the minister of the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church had tried to prompt a group of blacks to walk off a bus in protest. The driver had ordered Reverend Vernon Johns to get up and let a white man sit down. Johns stood up and challenged the other blacks to march off the bus with him. Asking blacks to protest was asking a lot. They could expect to be fired from their jobs and harassed on the streets, ad could possibly become victims of an economic boycott on the part of the white segregationists. A successful bus boycott would need to be mapped out carefully and executed with discipline.Robinson was consulted by E.D. Nixon, president of the NAACP. The night of Parks' arrest, Robinson called the other WPC leaders, and they agreed that this was the right time for a bus boycott. Rosa was a longtime NAACP activist who was deeply respected and seemed like the ideal community symbol around which to mobilize a mass protest.\n\nRobinson stayed up all night copying 35,000 handbills by a mimeograph machine at Alabama State College to distribute the next day. She called students and arranged to meet them at elementary and high schools in the morning. She drove to the various schools to drop the handbills off to the students who would distribute them in the schools and ask students to take them home for their parents. Robinson did not put her name or that of the Women's Political Council on the handbills. She feared the city and state officials would realize she had used the mimeograph machine at Alabama State and, in revenge, cut off funds for the all-black school. The handbills asked blacks to boycott the buses the following Monday, December 5, in support of Parks. Thelma Glass and her students helped distribute fliers. \n\nBy Friday night, word of a boycott had spread all over the city. That same night, local ministers and civil rights leaders held a meeting and announced the boycott for Monday. With some ministers hesitant to engage their congregations in a boycott, about half left the meeting in frustration. They decided to hold a mass meeting Monday night to decide if the boycott should continue.\n\nThe one-day boycott was so successful that the organizers met on Monday night and decided to continue. They established the Montgomery Improvement Association to organize the boycott and elected the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. as president. Jo Ann Robinson served on the group's executive board and edited their newsletter. In order to protect her position at Alabama State College and her colleagues, she stayed out of the limelight. Robinson and other WPC members helped sustain the boycott by providing car transportation for many boycotters.\n\nOn February 1, 1956, associated lawyers filed a civil suit, \"Browder v. Gayle,\" in the United States District Court, on behalf of five women who had each been arrested for defying bus segregation (one dropped out that month.) A three-judge panel ruled on June 13, 1956, that bus segregation was unconstitutional, and the case went to the US Supreme Court. It upheld the lower court ruling on December 17, 1956, and three days later ordered the state to desegregate the buses.\n\nThe boycott had demonstrated African-American organizing power and highlighted civil rights issues in the city. Its success helped further steps in the drive for civil rights.\n\nRobinson and Burks left Montgomery in 1960, after several Alabama State College professors were fired for civil rights activities. Robinson left Alabama State College in 1960 after several teachers had been fired for their participation in the boycott. She taught for one year at Grambling State College in Grambling, Louisiana, then moved to Los Angeles, where she taught English in the public schools until 1976, when she retired. After retiring, Robinson remained active in a host of civic and social groups, giving one day a week of free service to the city of Los Angeles and serving in the League of Women Voters, the Alpha Gamma Omega chapter of the Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, the Angel City chapter of the Links, the Black Women's Alliance, the Founders Church of Religious Science, and Women on Target. In 1987 Robinson published her memoir about the boycott, \"The Montgomery Bus Boycott and the Women Who Started It\", which won the publication prize by the Southern Association for Women's Historians. Through her historical work, Robinson helped restore women to their proper place in the Montgomery boycott, and through her political commitment, she helped launch one of the most important civil rights struggles in the Jim Crow South.\n\nIn 1960, Burks resigned from Alabama State College after several professors were fired for their involvement in civil rights issues. She then taught literature at the University of Maryland until her retirement in 1986.Burks was appointed to a National Endowment for the Humanities reviewing panel in 1979.\n\nThe success of the boycott and the rise of the Montgomery Improvement Association contributed to the organization's decline. The MIA was created to direct the boycott, as a result the WPC leadership role in the black community was diminished. Younger women reinvigorated the council, guided by older members serving as role models. Robinson stated in her memoir that \"Members felt that young, concerned women, with their futures ahead, would benefit by the WPC and that we would help them to organize and select goals and directions for their future.\" Information is not available on the extent to which the younger women became involved in the later civil rights movement in Montgomery and elsewhere.\n\n\n"}
